-- Yellen Testimony to Senate Banking Committee (Full Text)
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2013-11-13T21:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-13/yellen-testimony-to-senate-banking-committee-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen ’s prepared
testimony for a Nov. 14 confirmation hearing before the Senate
Banking Committee. She is President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to
replace Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  when his term expires Jan.
31. The remarks were released today by the Fed.  Chairman Johnson, Senator Crapo, and members of the
Committee, thank you for this opportunity to appear before you
today. It has been a privilege for me to serve the Federal
Reserve at different times and in different roles over the past
36 years, and an honor to be nominated by the President to lead
the Fed as Chair of the Board of Governors.  I approach this task with a clear understanding that the
Congress has entrusted the  Federal Reserve  with great
responsibilities. Its decisions affect the well-being of every
American and the strength and prosperity of our nation. That
prosperity depends most, of course, on the productiveness and
enterprise of the American people, but the Federal Reserve plays
a role too, promoting conditions that foster maximum employment,
low and stable inflation, and a safe and sound financial system.  The past six years have been challenging for our nation and
difficult for many Americans. We endured the worst financial
crisis and deepest recession since the Great Depression. The
effects were severe, but they could have been far worse. Working
together, government leaders confronted these challenges and
successfully contained the crisis. Under the wise and skillful
leadership of  Chairman Bernanke , the Fed helped stabilize the
financial system, arrest the steep fall in the economy, and
restart growth.  Today the economy is significantly stronger and continues
to improve. The private sector has created 7.8 million jobs
since the post-crisis low for employment in 2010. Housing, which
was at the center of the crisis, seems to have turned a corner--
construction,  home prices , and sales are up significantly. The
 auto industry  has made an impressive comeback, with domestic
production and sales back to near their pre-crisis levels.  We have made good progress, but we have farther to go to
regain the ground lost in the crisis and the recession.
Unemployment is down from a peak of 10 percent, but at 7.3
percent in October, it is still too high, reflecting a labor
market and economy performing far short of their potential. At
the same time, inflation has been running below the Federal
Reserve’s goal of 2 percent and is expected to continue to do so
for some time.  For these reasons, the Federal Reserve is using its
monetary policy tools to promote a more robust recovery. A
strong recovery will ultimately enable the Fed to reduce its
monetary accommodation and reliance on unconventional policy
tools such as asset purchases. I believe that supporting the
recovery today is the surest path to returning to a more normal
approach to monetary policy.  In the past two decades, and especially under Chairman
Bernanke, the Federal Reserve has provided more and clearer
information about its goals. Like the Chairman, I strongly
believe that monetary policy is most effective when the public
understands what the Fed is trying to do and how it plans to do
it. At the request of Chairman Bernanke, I led the effort to
adopt a statement of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s (FOMC)
longer-run objectives, including a 2 percent goal for inflation.
I believe this statement has sent a clear and powerful message
about the FOMC’s commitment to its goals and has helped anchor
the public’s expectations that inflation will remain low and
stable in the future. In this and many other ways, the Federal
Reserve has become a more open and transparent institution. I
have strongly supported this commitment to openness and
transparency, and will continue to do so if I am confirmed and
serve as Chair.  The crisis revealed weaknesses in our financial system. I
believe that financial institutions, the Federal Reserve, and
our fellow regulators have made considerable progress in
addressing those weaknesses. Banks are stronger today,
regulatory gaps are being closed, and the financial system is
more stable and more resilient. Safeguarding the  United States 
in a global financial system requires higher standards both here
and abroad, so the Federal Reserve and other regulators have
worked with our counterparts around the globe to secure improved
 capital requirements  and other reforms internationally. Today,
banks hold more and higher-quality capital and liquid assets
that leave them much better prepared to withstand financial
turmoil. Large banks are now subject to annual “stress tests”
designed to ensure that they will have enough capital to
continue the vital role they play in the economy, even under
highly adverse circumstances.  We have made progress in promoting a strong and stable
financial system, but here, too, important work lies ahead. I am
committed to using the Fed’s supervisory and regulatory role to
reduce the threat of another financial crisis. I believe that
capital and liquidity rules and strong supervision are important
tools for addressing the problem of financial institutions that
are regarded as “too big to fail.” In writing new rules,
however, the Fed should continue to limit the regulatory burden
for community banks and smaller institutions, taking into
account their distinct role and contributions. Overall, the
Federal Reserve has sharpened its focus on financial stability
and is taking that goal into consideration when carrying out its
responsibilities for monetary policy. I support these
developments and pledge, if confirmed, to continue them.  Our country has come a long way since the dark days of the
financial crisis, but we have farther to go. Likewise, I believe
the Federal Reserve has made significant progress toward its
goals but has more work to do.  Thank you for the opportunity to appear before you today. I
would be happy to respond to your questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Washington at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  