-- ’Once’ Wins Best Musical Tony, ‘Clybourne’ Top Play
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-06-11T04:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/-once-newsies-win-early-tony-awards-in-new-york.html
“Once,'' a $150,000 movie that
became a $5.5 million Broadway show, won the  Tony Award  for best
musical last night, along with seven other medallions, making it
the most honored show of the season.  “Clybourne Park,” a Pulitzer Prize winner last year, won
the Tony for best play. The award for best musical revival went
to an adaption of “Porgy and Bess” that riled many critics and
 Stephen Sondheim , while the Tony for best play revival went to
“Death of a Salesman,” for which director  Mike Nichols  won his
ninth Tony.  “It’s small and subtle,” “Once” producer Fred Zollo
told reporters after the ceremony, comparing the show to the
1955 film “Marty.” “There is something that spoke to a huge
audience.”  Audra McDonald won her fifth Tony as Bess in “The
Gershwins’ Porgy and Bess.” Nina Arianda won her first, playing
an auditioning actress alternately manipulating and being
manipulated in “Venus in Fur.”  Surprise Winner  James Corden  of the comedy “One Man, Two Guvnors” was a
surprise winner for best actor in a play. Philip Seymour Hoffman
from “Salesman” was widely regarded the favorite.  The Tonys were selected by 851 voters, including directors,
producers, actors and press agents. It was broadcast on CBS
television, hosted by Neil Patrick Harris for the third time.
The show opened with a skit adapted from the opening number of
last year’s big winner, “The Book of Mormon.” Harris also
appeared hanging face-down in a homage to the $75 million
“Spider-Man: Turn off the Dark.”  “Once,” in which the onstage cast also plays instruments,
was cited for direction, sound, lighting and set design,
orchestrations and book.  Steve Kazee , who plays a lovelorn Irish
composer and vacuum cleaner repairman in “Once,” was named
best actor in a musical.  “Newsies,”  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s pirouette-and-cartwheel-
filled account of the 1899 newsboys’ strike in  New York , won for
choreographer  Christopher Gattelli  and a score by  Alan Menken 
and Jack Feldman. Considered the top rival to “Once,” it was
adapted from a 1992 movie starring a 17-year-old  Christian Bale .  “Newsies is a whale of a show but sadly there has to be a
winner,” Zollo said.  Helpful Chandeliers  Disney’s most recent best musical nod was for “The  Lion
King ,” in 1998, staged by  Julie Taymor , who was fired from the
first show to open in 2011-12, the $75 million “Spider-Man:
Turn off the Dark.” It was nominated for two awards, set and
costume design and won none.  The other best musical nominees were “Leap of Faith” and
“Nice Work If You Can Get It,” a new show with old songs by
George and Ira Gershwin. “Nice Work” won for featured actors
Michael McGrath and Judy Kaye.  “I guess chandeliers have been very good to me,” Kaye
joked. She swings from a chandelier in “Nice Work,” and her
first Tony, in 1988, was for “The Phantom of the Opera.”  “ Peter and the Starcatcher ,” a Peter Pan prequel, won for
sound, scenic, lighting and costume design and “Smash” star
 Christian Borle , who plays Black Stache, a young Captain Hook.  Family Drama  Judith Light was named best featured actress for “Other
Desert Cities,” Jon Robin Baitz’s acidic family drama.  “I feel like the luckiest girl in New York tonight,” she
said.  Hugh Jackman , a past host of the program and an honorary
Tony winner, presided over one of the season’s big hits, “Hugh
Jackman, Back on Broadway.” Overall, Broadway grossed $1.14
billion, up 7.5 percent, with attendance little changed. The
average ticket was just over $92, up from $76.45 five years
earlier, with tickets as high as $499.50 for the final weekend
of “Death of a Salesman.”  The top ticket to the Tonys, a joint production of the
American Theatre Wing and the Broadway League, which represents
theater owners and producers, was $1,500.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  