-- ‘Tainted’ Chesapeake Hears Rising Calls to Dump McClendon
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-06-11T20:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/-tainted-chesapeake-hears-rising-calls-to-dump-mcclendon.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s efforts to
defuse a shareholder revolt over Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon ’s personal finances and management missteps have
intensified calls for his dismissal.  In the past six weeks, the second-largest U.S. natural-gas
explorer shrank pay packages, eliminated perks, agreed to remake
its board, and obtained a $4 billion loan to cope with tumbling
gas prices and a looming cash shortfall. Still, McClendon is
$7.4 billion shy of the asset sales he said are needed during
the next six months to cover drilling costs and begin to repay
ballooning debt.  “He should resign or the reconstituted board should let
him go,” said  David Dreman , chairman of Dreman Value Management
Inc., which holds about 1 million Chesapeake shares. “This
company’s got to get its credibility back. As long as you have a
guy like Aubrey there, I don’t think we’re going to get the
credibility back.”  Shareholders are criticizing McClendon and the board after
the CEO was allowed to pile up more than $800 million in
personal loans to buy stakes in company-operated wells for his
private portfolio, deals that sparked  Internal Revenue Service 
and U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission reviews. His wrong bet
on gas demand in late 2011 left the company with no protection
against falling prices and he has lagged behind rivals such as
 Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  in shifting to more-lucrative oil production.  Icahn Turnaround  Chesapeake was the worst performing stock in the Standard
and Poor’s 500  Oil & Gas Exploration & Production (4O1)  Index this
year until May 25, when investor  Carl Icahn  announced he’d taken
a 7.6 percent stake and began pushing for reforms. Since then,
Chesapeake has gained 11 percent. The shares fell 4.1 percent to
$17.61 at the close in  New York .  Jim Gipson, a Chesapeake spokesman, declined to comment on
the calls for McClendon’s removal.  Ron Hutcheson , a spokesman
handling inquiries about McClendon’s personal finances, said he
couldn’t immediately comment.  McClendon already has paid a high price as the board sought
to mollify outraged shareholders: Within the next two weeks,
he’ll be forced out of the chairman’s post he held since co-
founding the Oklahoma City-based company 23 years ago.
Chesapeake’s largest investors, Southeastern Asset Management
and Icahn, will take control of the board later this month when
half the non-executive directors will be replaced with their
designees.  ‘Completely Unacceptable’  Investors also have been punished as McClendon’s personal
entanglements compounded the effect of cratering gas prices,
wiping out $2.6 billion in market value so far this year.
Chesapeake’s borrowing costs have soared, its  credit ratings 
have been cut and its ability to raise cash by auctioning assets
has been limited by loan covenants. Alembic Global Advisors
estimated the company’s cash flow shortfall may exceed $22
billion by the end of 2013.  “It is completely unacceptable that Aubrey McClendon
retains the CEO’s post,” said Pedro Noronha, a managing
director at London-based hedge-fund Noster Capital LLC, which
holds an undisclosed number of Chesapeake shares. “How can he
honestly think he will have the time and emotional ability to
remain at the helm of a multibillion dollar company while
undergoing all these obstacles and while enjoying his expensive
hobbies?”  Shareholders expressed the depth of their disappointment at
the June 8 meeting by opposing the re-elections of directors V. Burns Hargis, president of Oklahoma State University, and
Richard K. Davidson, former chairman of  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)   Resignation Decision  Both men, who are leading a probe of McClendon’s loans that
overlap with company financiers, offered to resign after the
vote. The board isn’t required to let them go and said in a June
8 statement that it would decide later.  Shareholders also overcame company opposition to three
measures intended to dilute the power concentrated in the nine-
person board of directors.  A requirement that directors receive a majority of votes to
be elected received support from 97 percent of voters at the
June 8 meeting. Although that total fell short of the 66.6
percent of outstanding shares required under the company’s
bylaws, directors decided to implement the majority-voting
standard immediately.  The holders also voted 86 percent in favor of doing away
with a requirement that changes to corporate bylaws must be
supported by two-thirds of outstanding shares. A measure that
would give large, long-term investors the right to nominate
candidates for board seats received support from 60 percent of
the votes cast.  Keeping Hargis  Southeastern, which holds 13.6 percent of Chesapeake’s
shares outstanding, said  in a filing  after the meeting that
Chesapeake should keep Hargis on the board until the review of
McClendon’s finances is completed. Southeastern, based in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , said it voted against both Hargis and
Davidson, and that it hopes the review can be completed within
“weeks, not months.”  Under a pact announced last week, Southeastern will appoint
three of the new independent directors and Icahn the fourth.
Neither Southeastern nor Icahn have said publicly which four of
the eight sitting directors should be dismissed, though the
agreement exempts  Louis Simpson , who was appointed to the board
last year at Southeastern’s request.  Jeffrey Bronchick, chief investment officer for Cove Street
Capital in  Los Angeles , said he is happy with the board reforms
so far initiated. He supports a “properly harnessed” Aubrey
overseen by directors who can say “no” to him.  ‘Change Afoot’  “What matters is change is afoot,” Bronchick said. “The
company is speeding down a reversal of direction to sell
assets.”  Chesapeake outspent cashflow in 19 of the past 21 years as
it amassed drilling leases from Appalachia to the  Rocky
Mountains  and made some of the biggest onshore discoveries of
the past 20 years, including the Haynesville Shale formation in
 Louisiana  and the Utica Shale in  Ohio .  Chesapeake was rocked by an unexpected $71 million first-
quarter loss after McClendon exited hedging contracts in late
2011 the protected the company’s gas output from falling prices.  McClendon said during a May 2 conference call that he
misjudged the commodity markets by assuming gas was poised to
rebound; instead, the price of the fuel continued to plunge,
reaching a 10-year low in April. Without the hedging contracts,
Chesapeake had to sell its gas at lower prices.  “Right now, Chesapeake is so tainted that they need a new
infusion throughout the whole organization,” Gerald R.
Armstrong, a Denver-based shareholder, said in a telephone
interview.  Armstrong, 71, traveled to  Oklahoma City  to attend the June
8 annual meeting, where he told McClendon that the CEO “might
not be here next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  