-- Lagarde Says Latvia to Join Euro After Problems Solved
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-06-11T08:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/lagarde-says-latvia-to-join-euro-after-problems-solved.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said the euro region will have solved
some of its problems by the time Latvia joins the currency bloc
in 2014.  “The euro zone is experiencing difficulties, and
struggling with them, and the time period when Latvia will join
the euro zone will be very important,” she said in an interview
with  Latvian television  broadcast late yesterday. “Accession
will not happen tomorrow, but after 2013, when part of the
problems facing the euro zone will definitely have been
solved.” Latvia plans to adopt the euro in 2014.  Lagarde, who was in the Latvian capital on June 5 for a
conference on how the Baltic state handled its economic crisis,
said euro accession will lower  interest rates , reduce currency
fluctuations and bolster trade with the euro area.  Latvia completed a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.5 billion) loan
program from a group led by the European Union and the IMF in
December. Its economy grew the fastest in the EU in the first
quarter, advancing 6.9 percent from the previous year, after
shrinking by more than a fifth in 2008 and 2009.  Some of the people that left Latvia during the crisis will
return as the economy strengthens and provides more jobs,
Lagarde said in the interview.  “We have experienced this process in many countries --
that can happen also in Latvia,” she said. “We see that life
in your country is improving, we see that the high level of
unemployment is constantly decreasing and that means that for
 Latvia  those are hopeful signals.”  About 80,000 people left Latvia, which has lost about a
10th of its population in the last decade, during 2009 and 2010,
according to estimates from labor economist Mihails Hazans. The
country’s unemployment rate was 16.3 percent in the first
quarter, according to a labor force survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  