-- Malaysia Beating Hong Kong With Felda’s IPO: Southeast Asia
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-06-12T08:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/malaysia-beating-hong-kong-with-felda-s-ipo-southeast-asia.html
Southeast Asia  is weathering a slump
in initial share sales better than markets including Hong Kong,
as optimism about the region’s economic outlook draws investors
to offerings in  Malaysia , Thailand and the Philippines.  Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd., Malaysia’s biggest
plantation owner, will tomorrow set the price of an initial
public offering that may raise as much as $3.2 billion. The IPO,
the biggest this year after  Facebook Inc.’s (FB)  sale, may bring
proceeds in the region to $5 billion this year, compared with
$1.4 billion in Hong Kong, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  With IPO markets worldwide roiled by Facebook’s plunging
value and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, Felda Global and IHH
Healthcare Bhd. are pushing ahead with deals. Companies that
went public in Southeast  Asia  since the start of last year have
outperformed IPO stocks globally, helping bolster confidence in
the region’s  equity capital markets  as  China ’s and  India ’s
economies cool.  “Southeast Asia is becoming more visible and interesting
to investors,” said Vineet Mishra, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s head
of equity capital markets for the region. “The strength of the
local economies is driving investor interest.”  Felda Global (FGVH)  drew orders from institutional investors for
about 20 times the stock available to them, two people with
knowledge of the matter said yesterday. As much as 10 percent of
the palm oil and rubber producer’s enlarged equity capital is
available to fund managers.  Felda ‘Excitement’  IHH Healthcare Bhd., Asia’s largest Hospital operator, has
secured investors including AIA Group Ltd. and Government of
 Singapore  Investment Corp. for its $2 billion initial share sale
in  Kuala Lumpur , two other people familiar with the matter said
today, declining to be named as the information was private.  State-owned Felda Global was the world’s third-largest oil
palm plantation operator in 2011, according to Frost & Sullivan
Inc. The company is attempting Malaysia’s biggest IPO since 2010,
as researcher Oil World forecasts palm oil exports will rise to
a record in the 2011-2012 season that started in October.  Gas
Malaysia Bhd. (GMB)  jumped 10 percent on its first day of trading in
Kuala Lumpur yesterday.  “I haven’t seen an IPO garner so much excitement in a long,
long time,” Abdul Jalil Abdul Rasheed, who helps manage $3
billion as chief executive officer at Aberdeen Islamic Asset
Management Sdn., said of the Felda Global sale.  Even with Felda and IHH Healthcare, the value of IPOs in
Southeast Asia will trail the $9.7 billion raised in the region
in last year’s first half, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Yet
the decline will be less steep than in Hong Kong, where the
value of IPOs has tumbled 89 percent.  F1 Delay  In the past month, Graff Diamonds Corp., China Yongda
Automobiles Services Holdings Ltd. and China Nonferrous Mining
Corp. shelved IPOs in Hong Kong that might have raised a
combined $1.7 billion. Southeast Asia hasn’t been immune either:
Formula One, owner of the world’s biggest auto-racing series,
last month postponed a plan to raise as much as $3 billion in
Singapore. Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  said the
IPO will still take place this year.  Economic growth in Southeast Asia may accelerate to 5.2
percent this year from 4.6 percent in 2011 amid a recovery in
 Thailand , according to an April forecast by the  Asian
Development Bank .  China Concerns  In  Indonesia , Southeast Asia’s largest economy,  growth  has
topped 6 percent for six straight quarters as investments in
industries such as mining increased. While Malaysia’s expansion
slowed to 4.7 percent in the first three months from 5.2 percent
the previous quarter, central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz
said June 7 that “very robust” consumption and private
investment will support the economy.  At the same time, China and India are losing steam. China
cut  borrowing costs  on June 7 for the first time in three years
after five straight quarters of slowing growth. India’s
expansion has eased to almost a decade-low.  “At this point in time when people are generally more
concerned about China, you’re not likely to get much of a deal
flow from  Hong Kong ,” said Lee King Fuei, Singapore-based  fund
manager  at Schroders Plc, which oversees about $326 billion.
“In Southeast Asia, there’s more diversity in economies and
government policies.”  Tesco Lotus Deal  The 133 companies that went public in Southeast Asia since
the start of 2011 have fallen an average 5.1 percent from their
offer prices, compared with a 10.4 percent drop for IPOs
worldwide and a 9.6 percent decline for the rest of the Asia-
Pacific region, according to Bloomberg data weighted by deal
size. In Hong Kong, new stocks lost an average of 13 percent in
the same period.  Thailand, whose economy was ravaged in 2011 by the worst
floods in almost 70 years, boasts the largest IPO completed so
far in 2012 in the Asia-Pacific region.  Tesco Lotus Retail
Growth Freehold & Leasehold Property Fund (TLGF) , controlled by Tesco
Plc’s Thai unit, raised 18.4 billion baht ($580 million) in
March in the country’s biggest IPO since 2006.  In second place is a Philippine deal: GT Capital Holdings
Inc., owned by billionaire George Ty, raised 18.8 billion pesos
($435 million) in April in that country’s fourth-largest IPO
ever. Tesco Lotus shares have advanced 18 percent since its IPO,
while GT Capital is up 5.7 percent from its offer price.  “Despite a slowdown in equity markets elsewhere around the
region, we expect to see continued activity in the Southeast
Asian IPO markets for the remainder of the year,”  said Ashok Pandit, co-head of Asia equity capital markets at Deutsche Bank
AG, the No.1 underwriter of Southeast Asian IPOs last year
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  