-- Malaysia’s ECM Said to Near $281 Million Sale to Kenanga
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-06-11T05:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/malaysia-s-ecm-said-to-near-281-million-sale-to-kenanga.html
ECM Libra Financial Group Bhd. (ECML)  is
close to selling its investment banking unit to Malaysia’s  K&N
Kenanga Holdings Bhd. (KNK)  for about 890 million ringgit ($281
million), two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Kenanga, a Kuala Lumpur-based brokerage backed by  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) , will pay in cash and shares and the final terms will be
set this week, said the people, who declined to be named as the
information is private. ECM Libra plans to distribute at least
60 sen per share in cash and Kenanga stock to its shareholders,
one of the people said.  Banks and brokerages have been merging in Southeast Asia’s
third-biggest economy amid increased competition from foreign
lenders including Bank of China Ltd. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corp.  Hong Leong Bank Bhd. (HLBK)  bought EON Capital Bhd. for $1.7
billion in May, while RHB Capital Bhd. is awaiting central bank
approval to acquire OSK Holdings Bhd.’s investment bank.  The sale will help Azman Hashim, ECM Libra’s biggest
shareholder, meet Malaysian licensing rules that bar a single
individual from being a key owner of more than one investment
bank. Azman indirectly holds almost 17 percent of  AMMB Holdings
Bhd. (AMM) , Malaysia’s fifth-biggest lender by market value, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ECM Libra Chief Executive Officer Lim Boon Soon didn’t
return a phone call or e-mail to his office seeking comment.
Kenanga’s head of group corporate affairs Siti Maslinda Sheikh Othman also didn’t immediately return a call. The companies
announced on June 7 that they had finance ministry approval for
the sale.  Asset Management  Kenanga is  Malaysia ’s sixth-biggest equities broker by
trading value in May, while ECM Libra is No. 9, according to the
stock exchange’s website.  The Edge Financial Daily reported that ECM Libra plans to
make a 60 sen per share distribution earlier today. The Kuala
Lumpur-based company doesn’t intend to sell its asset management
operations, according to its June 7 exchange filing.  Its  shares  rose as much as 3.8 percent to 82 sen in Kuala
Lumpur today, while Kenanga climbed as much as 3.2 percent to 64
sen, heading for its highest close since March.  Deutsche Bank, through Deutsche Asia Pacific Holdings Pte.,
holds a 16.6 percent stake in Kenanga, according to the
company’s  website . The biggest shareholder is CMS Capital Sdn.
with a 25.1 percent stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Barry Porter  in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji in Hong Kong at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  