-- Allergan Holders Can Proceed With Botox Suit, Judge Rules
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-06-11T19:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/allergan-holders-can-proceed-with-botox-suit-judge-rules-1-.html
Allergan Inc. (AGN)  investors can seek to
hold directors responsible for criminal sanctions and a
$600 million penalty that the maker of the wrinkle smoother
Botox was ordered to pay for marketing the drug for unapproved
uses, a judge ruled.  Two pension funds who contend that Allergan’s board failed
to properly oversee executives who marketed Botox for ailments
that hadn’t been approved by regulators have amassed enough
evidence about the illegal sales effort to proceed with their
claims, Delaware Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster concluded
today.  The funds’ allegations “support a reasonable inference
that the board consciously approved a business plan predicated
on violating the federal statutory prohibition against off-label
marketing,” Laster said in his 82-page ruling.  Botox, Allergan’s best-selling product, had $1.59 billion
in sales last year, about half for cosmetic uses and half for
migraine treatment, incontinence and other conditions. The
 Irvine , California-based drugmaker said this year that it’s
seeking to expand the medical use of Botox for patients with
overactive bladders after two studies highlighted its
effectiveness as a treatment.  More Sales  David Pyott, Allergan’s chief executive officer, told
Bloomberg News in an interview that analysts estimate the new
indication, for more-severe bladder problems, may generate about
$400 million a year in sales.  Bonnie Jacobs, a spokeswoman for Allergan, declined to
comment on Laster’s ruling. “At this point, we haven’t fully
reviewed the ruling,” she said in an e-mailed statement.  Allergan’s marketing efforts have been the focus of
scrutiny since 2007, when federal prosecutors began reviewing
Botox sales. They started the probe after  whistle-blowers 
claimed the company was using illegal marketing tactics to turn
the medication into a blockbuster drug.  Allergan officials agreed in September 2010 to plead guilty
to a charge of misbranding Botox by promoting it for unapproved
uses and to pay a total of $600 million in fines and damages.  The drugmaker agreed to pay $375 million in criminal fines
and $225 million to resolve civil claims filed by the U.S.
 Justice Department  over Botox’s marketing campaign.  Other Ailments  Prosecutors  alleged  Allergan executives pushed its sales
force to market the anti-wrinkle drug for headaches, pain,
muscle stiffness and juvenile cerebral palsy. At the time of
those sales, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  hadn’t
approved Botox as a treatment for those ailments, government
officials said.  Although doctors may prescribe drugs for uses not approved
as safe and effective by government regulators, companies are
forbidden to market them for off-label uses.  Allergan officials “held workshops to teach doctors and
their office staffs how to bill for off-label uses” and set up
a Botox reimbursement hotline so doctors could get advice on how
to use the drug for unapproved uses, prosecutors said in a
Justice Department  statement  about the settlement.  In 2010, the  Louisiana Municipal Police Employees
Retirement System , which invested in Allergan’s shares, filed a
so-called derivative suit against the company’s board over the
Botox marketing campaign. It later was joined in the suit by a
Pennsylvania-based pension  fund  for restaurant workers.  Under such suits, any recovery from individual directors or
insurance covering them would go to the company’s coffers rather
than to individual shareholders.  ‘Strategic Plan’  The pension funds argued that because the Botox off-label
marketing plan was part of the company’s “strategic plan,”
directors knowingly approved of the illegal sales and
facilitated them by providing more staff and funding, according
to court filings.  Allergan’s lawyers countered in their court filings that
board members never approved illegal sales tactics for Botox and
enacted policies to “prevent inappropriate marketing.”  The drugmaker’s lawyers argued the Delaware suit couldn’t
go forward after a federal judge in California threw out similar
claims filed by other Allergan shareholders over the Botox
marketing campaign.  Laster concluded the Delaware case could move forward
because the shareholders who had filed in Chancery Court were
bringing slightly different claims from the  California  case.  He also found the California investors “did not adequately
represent Allergan” in their derivative suit. Shareholders who
file such cases are suing in the company’s name since the
recovery would go back to the firm.  ‘Actual Confessions’  Laster also said that shareholders seeking to hold
directors liable for wrongdoing don’t have to “point to actual
confessions of illegality by defendant directors to survive”
motions to dismiss their cases.  Allergan investors who brought the Delaware cases have
gathered evidence that they contend shows Allergan directors
repeatedly approved strategic plans for Botox that relied on
off-label marketing to generate sales, Laster said.  The board then closely monitored Allergan’s “dramatic
success in increasing sales at rates far exceeding what the
market for existing on-label uses could support,” the judge
said.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System and UFCW Local 1776 & Participating Employers Pension
Fund v. Pyott, 5795, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  