-- Amgen Gets Supreme Court Review of Stock Fraud Lawsuit
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-06-11T14:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/amgen-gets-supreme-court-review-of-stock-fraud-lawsuit.html
The U.S. Supreme Court will decide
whether investors must prove that misinformation from  Amgen (AMGN)  Inc.
propped up its stock price before they can pursue a class-action
stock-fraud suit against the world’s largest biotechnology
company.  The justices today agreed to review an appeal by Amgen in a
case alleging the company and its executives misled investors
for more than three years about safety questions involving its
Aranesp and Epogen anemia drugs.  Amgen says a federal appeals court ruling makes it too easy
to mount class-action lawsuits representing thousands of people,
pressuring companies to pay settlements for even frivolous
allegations rather than risk huge damages in a trial. Amgen’s
appeal is backed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the
pharmaceutical industry’s trade group.  “Securities class actions are almost always settled once a
class is certified, because the risks to a defendant of going to
trial are so substantial,” a group of law professors and former
Securities and Exchange Commission members said in a brief
supporting Amgen’s bid for a  Supreme Court  hearing.  All sides agree that the investors alleging  securities
fraud  must, at some point, show that misrepresentations by Amgen
had an effect on its share price.  The company says judges should resolve disputes about the
relevance of misleading information before letting multiple
investors band together in a class-action suit. The San
Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals disagreed,
saying that, if a case meets other requirements for class-action
status, evidence about the effect on share price must wait for
the trial itself.  ‘Enormous Sums’  Because the potential cost of class-action lawsuits is so
large, Amgen said companies will “frequently be forced, by
practical realities, to settle cases for enormous sums” before
trial. They may never get a chance to prove that allegedly
misleading statements were irrelevant, the  Thousand Oaks ,
California-based company said.  The 9th Circuit’s ruling acknowledged that other federal
appeals courts have conflicting views.  A New York-based federal court has said investors must show
that misleading information affected stock prices before a judge
can allow a class-action suit. An appeals court in Philadelphia
doesn’t require investors to show the effect on share price at
that point, although it has said a company can defeat a request
for class-action status by proving that alleged wrongdoing had
no impact on trading.  Class-Action Rules  In a case last year about the standards for granting class-
action status, the Supreme Court sided with investors, ruling
unanimously that they could sue  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  as a group
without first showing that they lost money because of alleged
fraud.  Investors, led by  Connecticut ’s public employee pension
plans, allege that Amgen executives withheld or played down
safety concerns, including questions about whether its anemia
drugs contributed to growth of cancerous tumors. Amgen says it
didn’t mislead investors, and that information about drug-safety
questions was widely known and was reflected in Amgen’s share
price.  The justices will hear arguments in the case during the
term that begins in October.  The case is Amgen v. Connecticut Retirement Plans and Trust
Funds, 11-1085.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  