-- AMR Says ‘Very Focused’ on Restructuring as Independent Company
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-11T03:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/amr-says-very-focused-on-restructuring-as-independent-company.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , the parent of  American
Airlines , said it plans to emerge from  bankruptcy protection  as
an independent company even as  US Airways  Group Inc. seeks
support for a combination.  “We’re very focused on restructuring independently,”
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said today in Beijing at a
briefing. “That has to be our focus now and anything else for
the time being is a distraction.”  AMR is trying to fend off  US Airways (LCC)  after the smaller
carrier won union backing for a takeover and began approaching
bondholders. Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR is working to reduce
labor costs, add more small jets and boost international service
after seeking protection from creditors in November.  The company is now in the midst of restructuring labor
contracts, which Horton called the “most challenging” part of
the process. It is also the element most likely to cause the
carrier to miss its year-end target for leaving court protection,
Horton said.  “It’s a very aggressive objective,” he said, while
reiterating that it was achievable. “That would be 13 months
front to back.”  Horton, who became chief executive when the carrier sought
court protection, is in Beijing for the annual meeting of the
 International Air Transport Association.   Labor Costs  AMR is seeking to pare labor costs, which were the highest
in the industry, according to the carrier. The company’s request
to throw out existing contracts to help cut annual labor
spending by $1.25 billion will be ruled on by June 22 by U.S.
Bankruptcy Court Judge Sean Lane.  The  Allied Pilots Association  said June 7 that some progress
was being made in late talks with the airline urged by Lane, and
that negotiations would resume June 13. The  Association of
Professional Flight Attendants  and American failed to reach an
agreement in meetings that ended June 1.  Two groups represented by the  Transport Workers Union  are
set for talks June 11 and 12, after five others accepted
American’s last contract offer in May.  AMR’s unsecured creditors committee last month began
pressing Horton to consider strategic options including
combinations. Merging American, the third-biggest U.S. carrier,
with fifth-ranked US Airways would create the world’s largest
airline. US Airways hasn’t yet made a formal bid.  US Airways has proposed cutting $800 million a year from
labor costs to bring spending in line with industry standards.
Since signing contracts with American’s unions that are
contingent on a merger, Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways has
worked to build support among AMR bondholders, saying a combined
carrier would produce a greater return.  --Andrea Rothman and Mary Schlangenstein. Editors: Neil Denslow,
 Garry Smith   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Andrea Rothman in Beijing at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net 
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  