-- Manhattan Best for Homebuyers Since 2006 as Rents Jump
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-06-11T15:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/manhattan-best-for-homebuyers-since-2006-as-rents-jump.html
Andy Queen and his wife have been
apartment renters in  Manhattan  since selling their home in 2006,
when prices were climbing to their peak. They jumped back into
the buyer’s market this year after their landlord sought a 16
percent increase to their monthly payments.  “That got my attention,” said Queen, 46, a director of
commercial operations for the  advertising agency  MRM. “We
quickly tried to figure out what our options are.”  Now is the best time in almost six years to buy in
Manhattan as rents approach record highs and  home prices  hold
steady. The price gap between leasing and buying an apartment is
the narrowest it’s been since 2006, according to data from New
York appraiser  Miller Samuel Inc.  If the trend continues, a
growing number of renters may jump into homeownership.  Compared with the rest of the country, buying remains an
expensive proposition in Manhattan, where the median price of an
apartment is $625,000 for a one-bedroom and $1.2 million for a
two-bedroom. In the U.S., the median price of a previously owned
single-family home was $158,100 in the first quarter, according
to the National Association of Realtors.  In Manhattan, buying was 20.8 times more expensive than the
annual cost of renting,  Miller Samuel  data for the first quarter
show. The last time the spread was smaller was at the end of
2006, when home prices were climbing and rents were swelled by
demand from Manhattanites priced out of the sales market. Buying
a co-op or condo back then was 20.4 times the price of renting.  Decisions Shift  The multiple had climbed to as high as 26.7 in the second
quarter of 2008, the same time the median apartment price in
Manhattan peaked, according to Miller Samuel. It’s averaged 16.3
over the past 21 years.  There are limits to the analysis. While it’s adjusted for
inflation, it doesn’t account for significant costs such as
maintenance and mortgage-interest payments, which vary by buyer.  “We’re just seeing a higher frequency of the decision
going over to the buy side, whereas a year ago, the choice would
be almost absolutely to rent,”  Jonathan Miller , president of
Miller Samuel, said in an interview.  The median price of Manhattan condos and co-ops that sold
in the first quarter was $775,000, a 0.9 percent decline from a
year earlier, Miller Samuel and Prudential Douglas Elliman Real
Estate said in an April 3 report. At the same time, the median
monthly rent jumped  7.1 percent  to $3,100, or $37,200 annually.
Rents are now within about 5 percent of the $3,265 peak reached
at the end of 2006.  Purchasing Hurdles  Studios and one-bedroom units accounted for 56 percent of
sales completed in the quarter, the highest market share of
starter homes in three years, according to Miller.  The cost of buying relative to renting remains the highest
of anywhere in  New York City  and surrounding suburbs, according
to Trulia Inc.  “Buying is slightly more affordable to renting than it
was, but that’s not enough for Manhattan to make buying a good
deal,” said  Jed Kolko , chief economist at the San Francisco-
based property-data firm, which cites  Detroit  and  Oklahoma City 
as the top metropolitan areas where purchasing makes more sense.  For homeownership to pay off in Manhattan, a buyer has to
meet certain hurdles, such as obtaining a mortgage, doing so
near the current record-low rates, and making a substantial down
payment, according to Miller.  For $3,100 a month, a tenant can lease a 575-square-foot
(53-square-meter) studio with a fireplace in a West Village
prewar building, he said, citing a recent rental agreement.  Buyers ‘Stretch’  That monthly payment could alternately be used to purchase
a 700-square-foot co-op in the same neighborhood for $630,000 --
if the buyer were to put 20 percent down and get a 30-year
fixed-rate mortgage at 3.75 percent, according to Miller’s
analysis of a recent sale on Greenwich Street.  The $3,100 monthly cost to buy that apartment includes $800
for real estate taxes and maintenance charges. It doesn’t
account for  tax deductions , such as for mortgage interest, which
would reduce the burden, Miller said.  “If there is a way to buy, people will buy,” said  Pamela Liebman , president of Corcoran Group, a New York-based
brokerage. “They will stretch to buy where they don’t want to
stretch to rent.”  Queen and his wife, who have a 7-year-old son, decided in
March that they would rather put their money toward a purchase
than pay more to rent their apartment in  Murray Hill . With 45
days before they needed to renew their lease or decide to move
out, they raced to find a two-bedroom unit with about 1,200
square feet for less than $1 million. They planned to put 40
percent down.  Investment Return  Buying such a place instead of renting one would make sense
if they held onto it for at least three years, Andy Queen said.
If he sold it after that, he’d have a better return on his down
payment than had he invested elsewhere while remaining a renter,
according to Queen’s analysis, which assumes the home would
appreciate 3 percent annually and his rent would increase about
4 percent.  After seeing three places, the couple came close but ran
out of time to strike a deal. They renewed the lease for their
two-bedroom apartment at $5,500 a month, a 10 percent increase.
Queen plans to resume the home search in September.  “After we get through the summer season, I’m going to be
on top of it again,” he said. “If we find an incredible deal,
I can break the lease and pay a two-month penalty.”  Mortgage Rates  Tumbling  borrowing costs  are another enticement to buy,
Queen said. The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan fell for a
sixth straight week in the period ended June 7, to a record 3.67
percent, according to data from  Freddie Mac , the McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage financier. It has been below 4 percent
for all but one week this year.  Manhattan apartment rents are expected to climb 6.7 percent
in the 12 months through December as demand surges and limited
new supply comes to the market, according to Dallas-based
 Axiometrics Inc.  The research firm projects that 2,486 new
apartments will become available in the borough this year, a 0.3
percent increase from 2011.  While Manhattan’s rents may tip the scales toward buying,
qualifying for a mortgage muddies the decision for some as
lenders exact ever-stricter standards, Miller said. Co-ops,
which tend to be cheaper than condos and more attractive to new
buyers, require average down payments of 35 percent, further
limiting the pool of renters who can actually make a purchase.
In co-ops with larger shares of starter units, the requirement
is lower, according to Miller.  Stricter Lending  “For some people, the down payment is what halts the
process and doesn’t allow them to flip into a purchase,”
Liebman said. “Some people are asking their parents for help.”  Lenders demand a minimum down payment of 20 percent of the
sale price or appraised value, whichever is lower, said  Debra
Shultz , managing director at Manhattan Mortgage Co. in  New York .
All the while, underwriters are amassing paper trails to justify
loans to even the most credit-worthy borrowers.  Recent clients of Shultz’s were asked to explain each
inquiry listed on their credit report and to submit 24 months of
canceled rent checks to prove they pay on time.  “It’s different than the last time,” Shultz said. “They
haven’t experienced this degree of invasiveness,” she said of
her clients.  Moving Decision  For Anurag Sharma, the vetting process was more appealing
than staying in her one-bedroom apartment in the Financial
District’s  New York by Gehry  building, where the rent was set to
increase 4.2 percent to $3,715. So when she contemplated a move
to Midtown at the end of her lease, she thought about doing it
as a buyer.  “Do I really want to rent and move again?” said Sharma,
38, a physicist at a Long Island hospital. “The prices are at
an all-time low, the  interest rates  are at an all-time low, so
why not look into it?”  She asked  Doug Eichman , a Corcoran Group broker, to find
her a home where her monthly costs, including mortgage and
maintenance, wouldn’t exceed $2,800 -- the price, according to
Sharma, of a “decent” rental apartment in Manhattan.  “Do the math before you show it to me,” she told him.
“If you show me something way out of that range, I will kill
you.”  After seeing six places that fit her criteria, Sharma went
into contract in March for a 650-square-foot, one-bedroom co-op
on East 53rd Street for $395,000. After her 25 percent down
payment, her monthly housing bill comes to $2,561, including the
$1,170 maintenance fee. She completed the deal last week, almost
a month before her Gehry lease ends.  “I may not make anything on it but at least I’m not going
to lose my shirt,” she said. “And I can paint it whatever the
hell color I want.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  