-- Anti-Mafia Prosecutor Sounds Alarm Over Soccer Betting
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2012-06-11T06:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/anti-mafia-prosecutor-sounds-alarm-over-soccer-betting.html
European soccer is at high risk from
match-fixing mobsters seeking to “load the dice” in an illegal
gambling business valued at $90 billion a year, Sicily’s chief
anti-Mafia prosecutor said.  “The entire football business is at a high risk of
infiltration by the Mafia,” Antonio Ingroia told Bloomberg
Television in an interview in the Sicilian capital, Palermo.
 Italy ’s mob has pressured Italian “clubs in ticket selling and
gangs have been operating in the ticket-selling black market,”
which is often “tolerated by football clubs.”  Ingroia’s comments come as the European Championship gets
under way in Poland and Ukraine and after Italian prosecutors in
the northern city of Cremona announced a match-rigging probe
last month. The case, the latest in a series of illegal-betting
scandals in Italy, led to the arrest of Stefano Mauri, captain
of Serie A team Lazio, and a police visit to the national team’s
practice site to question defender Domenico Criscito, who was
later dropped from Italy’s Euro 2012 roster.  “These activities can generate tons of money, and that’s
what Cosa Nostra is after,” Ingroia, speaking of the Sicilian
mob’s illegal betting operations, said June 2. “The Mafia can
load the dice in some football matches and this has already
happened in the past,” said the prosecutor, who began his
career working for anti-Mafia magistrates Giovanni Falcone and
Paolo Borsellino, who were both murdered in Palermo in bombings
in 1992 blamed on the Mafia.  Globalized Scams  The Cremona probe, for which Juventus coach Antonio Conte
was also placed under investigation relating to his previous job
as Siena manager, highlights how match-rigging in the world’s
most popular sport is globalized. While the case targets eight
Italian matches from 2011, it focuses on a betting syndicate in
Croatia and  Hungary  known in Italy as “the band of Gypsies”
and headed by organized crime figures from  Singapore , Prosecutor
Roberto Di Martino said at a press conference in Cremona on May
28.  Mauri, Conte and Criscito have denied wrongdoing. Juventus
Chairman Andrea Agnelli publicly backed Conte at a briefing on
May 29, saying the former Italy midfielder will return as coach
next year after leading the Turin team to the Serie A title.  Internet Gambling  The illegal gambling market worldwide is estimated at $90
billion, according to the World Lottery Association, a lobbying
group for state-backed lotteries. Interpol estimates the value
of legal and illegal gambling at $500 billion.  “There are connections between international and local
criminal groups,” said Marcel Vulpis, an Italian author who has
studied organized crime and soccer. “There’s a sort of
international holding that we believe is run by the Chinese mob
that does match-fixing and illegal betting, but also money
laundering and gun-running,” he said.  While Lazio’s Mauri was granted house arrest this month,
the spotlight in Italy has continued to shine on the national
team, which was led to World Cup glory in 1982 by Paolo Rossi
only months after he had served a ban for involvement in a
betting scam. Rossi, now a commentator on Sky Italia SpA, has
always maintained his innocence. Led by players from Juventus,
Italy won a fourth world title in 2006 amid a match-rigging
probe that saw the Turin team get stripped of a league title and
demoted to Serie B.  Key Match  Di Martino said on May 28 that prosecutors are examining
the Lecce-Lazio game in May 2011. The betting ring earned 2
million euros and the players who helped rig the 2-4 result
received 600,000 euros, he said.  The next day, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said he
sometimes wished Italian professional soccer games were banned
for a few years over repeated cases of corruption, match fixing
and fan violence. “That could benefit the maturation of us
Italian citizens,” he said.  While Monti said his comments weren’t an official proposal,
they sparked outrage in soccer-crazy Italy. Maurizio Zamparini,
owner of Serie A team Palermo, warned that the state would lose
out on 900 million euros a year in  tax revenue  if soccer were
shut down.  “The rot isn’t only in soccer, it’s everywhere,” said
Gianluca Guerrasio, a laywer who represents players. Banning
soccer “would destroy an important business,” while “the rot
is also in politics and the whole system of wealth.”  Juventus Players  Juventus defender Leonardo Bonucci, who is on Italy’s 23-
man roster at Euro 2012, is also under investigation in Cremona,
news agency Ansa said on May 31, citing court documents. Bonucci
has said he’s not received any official notice that he’s being
probed and has denied wrongdoing.  In an interview with Rai Sport on June 1, Italy coach
Cesare Prandelli slammed what he called “crusades” against the
nation’s most popular sport. He also defended keeping Bonucci on
the roster, saying the player had received no notice of
investigation.  “From time to time, soccer comes under the spotlight, but
in the end, it’s always very popular and people still love it,”
said Markus Wiget, a Milan-based lawyer who has represented
English club  Manchester United . Soccer “is an education” for
children and “it would be a real pity” if that were harmed due
to outside factors beyond the game’s control, he said.  FIFA, world soccer’s governing body, itself is undergoing
reform after several of its officials faced corruption
inquiries. In 2011, FIFA started disciplinary proceedings
against six game officials as part of a match-fixing probe
centered on two exhibition matches in  Turkey  involving  Estonia ,
 Bulgaria ,  Latvia  and  Bolivia . All seven goals in the games came
on penalties.  Sicily’s top anti-Mafia prosecutor said a “specialized
 task force ” is needed to root out corruption and cheating from
the Italian game.  “When organized crime becomes so important to markets, it
often becomes easier to adapt to it instead of chasing it,”
Ingroia said. “That happens for soccer, politics,  tax evasion  -
- it’s part of our country’s nature.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Prague at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  