-- Manuel Johnson, Virginia Horsey Set, Girl Scouts: D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-11T15:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/manuel-johnson-virginia-horsey-set-girl-scouts-d-c-.html
Manuel Johnson, co-chairman of
Johnson Smick International Inc. and former Federal Reserve
System vice chairman, says at heart he’s “pretty much a country
boy.”  The Alabama native turned country squire in  Virginia , where
he keeps seven horses on his farm, is the president of the
 Upperville Colt and Horse Show , which ended yesterday. Aaron
Vale, riding Admiral Clover, won top prize in the $75,000
Upperville Jumper Classic.  Among those taking in the bucolic scene amid the Blue Ridge
Mountains were actor  Robert Duvall , Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and Paul Dietrich, chief executive officer of Foxhall
Capital Management Inc.  Johnson said that his fellow economist  Lyle Gramley , a
former Federal Reserve governor, was an early mentor in his
growth as an equestrian. But he himself is “too busy
organizing,” Johnson said, to participate in the show’s jumping
competition.  The day featured a carriage-driving competition and Jack
Russell terrier races in 90-degree heat. Large hats and parasols
shielded spectators. The scent of sunscreen wafted through the
air.  Established in 1853, the show is the oldest in the U.S. The
event has an annual budget of more than $1 million, Johnson
said, most of which is spent on improvements to the fields and
repairs of the 100-year-old oak trees that surround the area.  White Tent  At the Jumper Classic Luncheon, held at the top of the hill
under a white tent, Tim Brookshire, the president of Pinnacle
Properties Inc., and Tom McMillen, the former Maryland
congressman and basketball star, partook of the pasta buffet and
strawberry shortcake.  Dietrich joked about the seriousness of equestrian sports
in Virginia country life: “Everyone fox-hunts or plays polo. If
you talk about the  Washington Redskins  at dinner parties, people
think you’re nuts.”  Girl Scouts  Selling Girl Scout cookies is the “largest financial
literacy program,” Connie Lindsey, an executive vice president
at  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  and the national president of the Girl
Scouts of the USA.  Lindsey, Girl Scouts CEO Anna Maria Chavez, and actress
 Mandy Moore  joined 200,000 girls for the Girl Scouts Rock the
Mall Saturday in front of the  Washington  Monument.  It was a special celebration marking the organization’s
100th anniversary.  “It’s not just a girl issue, it’s a leadership issue,”
said Chavez about the “skill set” and salesmanship girls learn
through scouting.  She cited Secretary of State  Hillary Rodham Clinton  and
Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  as prime examples
of women using their Girl Scout teachings to achieve leadership
positions.  Moore said she learned “what friendship means” during her
Girl Scout years, as well as the joys of s’mores.  She came at the invitation of corporate sponsor Dove as
part of its Dove Movement for Self-Esteem campaign.  Moore introduced women “who should be famous” as role
models to the girls, such as mathematician Melanie Matchett Wood
and molecular biologist Lydia Villa-Komaroff.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include:  Jim Pressley  on books and  John
Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 