-- Manulife Doubling Asia Agents as Region’s Profit Swells
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-06-11T20:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/manulife-doubling-asia-agents-as-region-s-profit-swells.html
Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  plans to
double its insurance agents in Asia to about 100,000 in the next
five years and boost the region’s share of profit to 40 percent
as its shares remain 75 percent below their 2007 peak.  Canada’s largest insurer currently gets about a third of
its  profit  from the region, half its insurance sales and one-
fifth of global wealth revenue, said  Robert Cook , Manulife’s
senior executive vice president for Asia.  “We do obviously expect that our business in Asia will
grow faster than our business in  North America  and as a result,
those numbers should become even stronger as we move forward,”
Cook said in a telephone interview from Toronto where the
company is based.  Manulife, which first entered  Asia  115 years ago, has been
targeting rising incomes in the region, which should account for
about 85 percent of the world’s 1-billion-strong middle class in
five years, Cook said.  “When people enter into middle class, they become
potential customers for our products,” said Cook.  Expansion in Asia is a major part of Chief Executive
Officer Donald Guloien’s plan to reach C$4 billion ($3.9
billion) in net income, and return on equity of 13 percent, by
2015. Net income  was  C$129 million last year, down from a record
C$4.3 billion in 2007 as falling interest rates and stock prices
raised the cost of covering guarantees on investment products
such as annuities.  Low Rate  Asia is “massively” important for Manulife, said  Peter Routledge , analyst at National Bank Financial.  “We’re likely in a very low interest-rate environment in
Canada and the  United States  for a very long time,” Routledge
said in an interview from Toronto. “The only viable,
sustainable, profitable growth part of their business is Asia.”  Manulife fell 1.3 percent to C$10.68 in Toronto trading.
The shares have tumbled 75 percent from their peak in October
2007,  compared  with a 21 percent decline on the benchmark
S&P/TSX Composite Index.  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) , Canada’s third-largest insurer,
last month announced a joint venture in  Vietnam  with PVI
Holdings to expand its Asian operations.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , two of the largest U.S. life
insurers, have expanded in Asia with the purchase of units from
bailed-out  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   Manulife ranks fifth among Canadian companies with market
capitalization of more than C$5 billion deriving revenues from
Asia Pacific according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sun Life
was eighth.  Profit from Manulife’s Asian operations climbed to C$1.1
billion in the first quarter of 2012, up from C$351 million a
year earlier on record insurance sales and higher premiums and
deposits.  Asian Gaps  Cook said India and  Korea  remain gaps in Manulife’s “Pan-
Asian” strategy.  “The challenge with Korea is that the regulator is not
granting new licenses,” said Cook. “The only mode of entry
into Korea right now is acquisition.  Manulife and  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  were among the companies that
were invited to make second-round bids for  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Asian
insurance business, people familiar with the matter said last
month.  Cook declined to comment on the report.  ‘‘We always look at these deals, but because of the
scarcity value, we’re not the only company that would like to
enter Korea,” Cook said. “Because of the scarcity value, the
price tends to get driven up and doesn’t meet our expectations
we set for acquisitions.”  Routledge at National Bank said Manulife is in a better
position to do a deal than previously. “I know their balance
sheet is in much better shape than it was two years ago, and
they’ve got more flexibility to do a deal,” he said.  Manulife has tentatively planned an investor day in  Hong
Kong  in September that will focus on the company’s Asian
business, Cook said.  Recruit People  “One of the objectives right now to doing an investor day
in Asia would be to get Asian investors interested in MFC,” he
said.  Countries including Vietnam, Indonesia and China “will be
the real drivers” of sales force expansion over the next five
years, Cook said. Manulife has about 10,000 agents in Vietnam
and about 5,000 in Hong Kong.  “Every day, we’re trying to recruit more people,” said
Peter Shum, 69, a Hong Kong-based senior manager who has been
with Manulife for 40 years. “We can’t have enough people, in
our district and for the whole company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  