-- Apple Combats Google-Microsoft-Facebook Troika in App Race: Tech
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-06-11T13:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/apple-combats-google-microsoft-facebook-troika-in-app-race-tech.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is releasing a fresh
lineup of computers and software tools to woo consumers and keep
developers making applications amid accelerating rivalry from
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and, now, Facebook Inc.  Apple will use the Worldwide Developers Conference starting
today in San Francisco to debut Mac computers with high-
definition screens, as well as features for the software that
powers its iPhone and iPad.  Phil Schiller , Apple’s senior vice
president of product marketing, will probably emcee the keynote.  Leadership in the consumer-electronics industry hinges on a
company’s ability to get developers to put its products first
when building the next big application, such as “Angry Birds”
or “Shazam.” With more than 600,000 downloadable games,
magazines and productivity tools, Apple is the application
leader. Microsoft is playing catch-up before the release of its
next operating system, Google will host a developers conference
this month and Facebook just opened its own store.  “It’s not just a battle for consumers’ hearts and minds --
it’s a battle for developers to get that next great application
to be available first and foremost on their platform,” said
 Charles Golvin , an analyst at Forrester Research Inc. who
studies the mobile technology industry. “These companies are
duking it out.”  The success of Apple’s App Store has helped create an
economy for downloading mobile applications that will reach $58
billion in sales in 2014, according to Gartner Inc. More than 25
billion apps have been downloaded from Apple’s store, and
developers have received $4 billion from the sales, according to
Cupertino, California-based Apple.  Bigger iPhone  Facebook is the latest to join the mobile app-store craze,
opening an online bazaar last week. The Google Play store boasts
more than 500,000 apps, while Microsoft has lined up design
firms, recruited interns and sent engineers on an around-the-
world road show to line the shelves of its app store.  At this week’s event, Apple will probably signal a bigger
screen for the next iPhone, its best-selling  product , by telling
developers to write future applications that can work on a
larger surface, said  Andy Hargreaves , an analyst at Pacific
Crest Securities Inc. in Portland, Oregon.  Apple also plans to announce a deal that lets users quickly
post pictures and other content from phones and tablets to the
profiles on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social network, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Trudy Muller, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to comment,
as did Derick Mains, a spokesman for Menlo Park, California-
based Facebook.  Cook’s Turn  Last year’s event, where co-founder  Steve Jobs  introduced
Apple’s iCloud service, was the last Apple event he led before
he died in October. He had used previous conferences to
introduce such products as earlier iPhone models.  This year’s conference, running June 11-15, will give Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook  a chance to outline his vision for
why developers should continue to build for Apple rather than
competitors, said  Carl Howe , an analyst at Yankee Group.  Developers will look for signs that Apple will announce
added uses for Siri, its voice-recognition technology, said
Corey Reese, the CEO and co-founder of Ness Computing Inc.  “Everybody in the industry pays very close attention to
what direction they go,” said Reese, who will be attending the
event and whose company makes an application that provides
restaurant recommendations.  Apple will use the event to introduce a new mapping
application that would replace  Google Maps , which it has used
since 2007, a person familiar with the plans said.  Google Standoff  The change may help shunt advertising revenue toward Apple
and away from Google, said Forrester’s Golvin. Apple also is
adding  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) ’s search engine as an alternative to Google
for iPhone users in China, people said last week.  The changes highlight Apple’s growing rivalry with Google,
which has joined companies including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  to
challenge the iPhone and iPad. Smartphones running Google’s
Android operating system accounted for 56 percent of global
sales in the first three months of the year, compared with 23
percent for the iPhone, according to Gartner. Google hosts its
own developers conference at the same location in San Francisco
June 27-29.  At today’s event, Cook and other Apple  executives  also will
showcase the latest lineup of Mac computers, including MacBook
Pro laptops that will sport high-definition screens and speedier
chips made by  Intel Corp. (INTC) , people familiar with the plans said
last month.  Outpacing Hewlett-Packard  Releasing the new computers puts Apple ahead of rival PC
makers such as  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL) , which will
introduce machines later in the year to work with Microsoft’s
coming Windows 8 release.  Apple rose 1.2 percent to $587.28 at 9:32 a.m. in New York.
Through yesterday, the shares had increased 43 percent this
year.  After today’s announcements, starting at 10 a.m. in San
Francisco, the weeklong event is closed to the public and media.
Developers pay about $1,600 apiece to attend and spend the week
meeting with Apple engineers to learn about new features that
are being introduced and how they can integrate them into their
applications. More than 5,200 people attended Apple’s developers
conference last year.  “This is when Apple releases their information and it’s
the one time of year when you know you’re going to get more of
an idea about what they are up to,” said  Matt Murphy , a partner
at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, which invests in companies
that make mobile applications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  