-- Apple Adds Software Features to Stay Ahead of Google in Apps
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-06-12T00:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/apple-updates-macbook-computer-line-amid-tussle-with-microsoft.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  unveiled the next version
of its mobile software, adding maps and integration with
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  to ratchet up pressure on  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in the
market for handheld devices and online applications.  Apple’s iOS 6 will have more than 200 new features,
including turn-by-turn map navigation and tools to make it
easier to access Facebook from iPhones and iPads, Cupertino,
California-based Apple said today. The company also upgraded its
MacBook computers, adding faster chips and sharper displays to
the high-end Pro model months before competing devices with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows arrive in stores.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  is using new software,
unveiled at the company’s annual Worldwide Developers
Conference, to widen Apple’s user base and woo developers who
can add to a store that has more than 650,000 downloadable
games, magazines and productivity tools. The new mapping
service, which replaces  Google Maps , and new voice-recognition
tools that make it easier to bypass traditional  search engines ,
reflect Apple’s efforts to diminish Google on its devices.  “The rift between Google and Apple couldn’t be clearer
than it was today,” said  Gene Munster , an analyst with Piper
Jaffray Cos. “They just keep raising the temperature.”  The rivalry has grown as Google puts its software on
machines made by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and other electronics
companies to challenge the iPhone and iPad.  Facebook Integration  Smartphones running Google’s Android operating system
combined accounted for 56 percent of global sales in the first
three months of the year, compared with 23 percent for the
iPhone, according to Gartner Inc. The iPhone is the best-selling
smartphone.  Apple announced today that it’s working more closely with
Facebook, another big rival to Google. The new features make it
easier for iPhone and iPad users to post pictures and other
content to the social network. Apple also is adding Facebook
“like” buttons to the App Store and iTunes. Google introduced
its own Facebook competitor, Google+, this year.  Apple is also adding  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) ’s search engine as an
alternative to Google for iPhone, iPad and Mac users in the
world’s most populous country. In another move to appeal to
Chinese users, Apple is updating its voice-recognition service
 Siri  to work for Mandarin and Cantonese speakers.  Strengthening Siri  Apple announced several other changes to Siri. The company
is making the service available for iPad users and added the
ability use voice commands to search for sports scores and make
reservations through  OpenTable Inc. (OPEN) ’s service. Apple said that
it’s working with carmakers, including  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) , Honda Motor Co. and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
to add a button to car steering wheels to quickly activate Siri.  Another new feature is called Passbook, an application that
organizes electronic gift cards, boarding passes or movie
tickets. The feature could eventually include credit-card data
and may mark an early step toward wireless payments for iPhone,
said Ross Rubin, an analyst at NPD Group.  Apple has more than 400 million credit cards on file via
iTunes and the App Store.  The mobile software upgrades will be part of Apple’s next
iPhone, which analysts including Munster have predicted will be
released by October. The iPhone is Apple’s best-selling product,
accounting for 58 percent of its  revenue  last quarter.  Mountain Lion  Apple also showed off its upcoming Mountain Lion operating
system for the Mac, which will be released next month for
$19.99. The software includes many features from the iPhone and
iPad, including a notification system so text messages sent to
an iPhone or iPad will show up on the Mac as well.  The changes to the mobile and Mac software underscore a
broader push by Apple to make its products work more seamlessly
together, encouraging customers to purchase multiple devices.
Users can safeguard documents and files on Apple’s iCloud
storage service and access them from whichever machine.  That fosters “stickiness” so that users won’t want to
switch to another product because of all the time and effort
they have invested with Apple’s gadgets, said Chris Jones, an
 analyst  at market researcher Canalys.  Today’s event highlighted the difficulty Apple has keeping
new product details secret. Many of the biggest announcements
from the day had leaked out in the weeks leading up to the
developer conference.  MacBook Revisions  Case in point: an updated MacBook Pro. Apple is tweaking
its laptops as other computer makers such as  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
prepare machines that feature the new version of Microsoft’s
Windows this year. Apple introduced a thinner, lighter MacBook
Pro that boasts high-definition screens and sells for at least
$2,199. It starts shipping today, Apple said. The MacBook Pros
feature more powerful chips from  Intel Corp. (INTC) , graphics
capabilities from  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and an HDMI port for playing
videos to TVs.  The MacBook Pro will boast 7 hours of battery life and as
much as 768 gigabytes of flash memory, Apple said. The company
updated the existing line of MacBook Pros, which will also boast
faster chips. These will sell for $1,199 to $2,199.  New MacBook Airs -- which are thinner and less pricey than
Pros -- will sell for $999 to $1,499, Apple said today.  “While they’re not dramatic new hardware, these were
important improvements to make for Apple to be ahead of the
competition,” said Walter Piecyk, an analyst with BTIG LLC in
New York. “These incremental improvements are going to further
integrate the Apple experience into the user’s life.”  Facebook Apps  The event kicked off Apple’s weeklong conference for
developers who make the software that populates its  App Store .
More than 30 billion apps have been downloaded from Apple
digital store, and developers have received $5 billion from the
sales, Apple said today. Apple keeps 30 percent of the revenue
raised from app-store sales and developers get the rest.  The success of Apple’s App Store has helped create a market
for applications that will reach $58 billion in 2014, according
to Gartner Inc.  “The products we make, combined with the apps you create,
can fundamentally change the world,” Cook said.  Fellow technology companies also are trying to lure the
developers. Even as Apple works more closely with Facebook, it
will also compete with the owner of the world’s most popular
social network in sales of apps.  Facebook opened an online bazaar last week. Google’s store
has more than 500,000 apps, while Microsoft has lined up design
firms, recruited interns and sent engineers on an around-the-
world road show to line the shelves of its app store. Google
hosts its own developers conference in  San Francisco  June 27-29.  This is Apple’s first developer conference since co-founder
 Steve Jobs  died in October. Last year’s event, where he
introduced Apple’s iCloud service, was the last Apple event he
led. Jobs had used previous conferences to introduce such
products as earlier iPhone models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  