-- Atomic ‘Agnostic’ Named for U.S. NRC Ties Industry Growth to Aid
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/atomic-agnostic-named-for-u-s-nrc-ties-industry-growth-to-aid.html
President  Barack Obama ’s pick to
head the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission has said atomic
power can’t grow without government subsidies, criticized an
industry-supported plan to dispose of spent fuel in  Nevada , and
said she was drawn to nuclear research because she got bored
with geology.  “I would describe myself as agnostic; I’m neither pro-
nuclear nor anti-nuclear,” Allison Macfarlane said in a June
2007  interview  for the Atomic Show on  The Podcast Network .
“We’re not going to see a large expansion of nuclear power in
this country unless there is a lot of government subsidy.”  Though Macfarlane has declined interview requests since
Obama nominated her to be chairman of the NRC, she has expressed
opinions in academic work and public appearances -- including
some that are at odds with the industry. She may face questions
about them on June 13 at a Senate Environment and Public Works
Committee confirmation hearing on the NRC nominations.  Obama announced on May 24 his selection of Macfarlane, 48,
an associate professor of environmental science and policy at
 George Mason University  in Fairfax, Virginia. The  Nuclear Energy
Institute , which represents companies such as  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and
 NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) , in a statement called her “an active
contributor to policy debates.”  Carbon Tax  Asked last week about her past positions, the NEI referred
to its May 24 statement, in which the Washington-based group
congratulated Macfarlane and urged the Senate to expedite the
confirmation. She didn’t return messages left at her office and
home seeking comment.  “I don’t think nuclear is competitive in a free-market
economy, unless there’s some kind of carbon tax or, you know,
unless coal plants are required to be built with carbon
sequestration,” she said in the 2007 pod cast.  Macfarlane, who holds a doctorate in geology from the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , has been critical of the
U.S. approach to spent nuclear fuel, a key issue for the
industry, which lacks a permanent site for waste. She served on
a presidential commission that issued a report in January
calling for the designation of a central, temporary storage site
while a search is conducted for one or more permanent facilities
in communities that agree to host them.  In a 2005 opinion essay in the Boston Globe, she said “the
nation has a nuclear-waste crisis,” and later criticized the
proposed Yucca Mountain site for nuclear-waste disposal.  Yucca Abandoned  The Obama administration abandoned Yucca after decades of
study and preparation that cost $15 billion. Opposition to the
project, about 100 miles (161 kilometers) northwest of  Las
Vegas , was led by Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat.  “Yucca Mountain violates one of the main criteria of
siting a nuclear-waste repository, which is that you find a
geologically stable location and Yucca Mountain is neither
seismically nor volcanically stable,” she told the Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee during a March 1, 2006,
hearing.  She declined to name sites she would prefer when asked by
Senator Jim Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican, during the hearing.  A 2006 book Macfarlane edited, “Uncertainty Underground:
Yucca Mountain and the Nation’s High-Level Nuclear Waste,”
examined technical issues of atomic waste disposal.  The process of picking Yucca, “broke the covenant with the
states that the siting process would be fair and the best site
would be selected,” she wrote in 2006 in the academic journal
 Innovations .  Dry Casks  She was a co-author of another academic  paper  in the
journal Science & Global Security in 2003 that recommended spent
fuel rods more than five years old be air-cooled in dry casks.
The nuclear-power industry has resisted accelerating the
transfer of spent rods to so-called dry casks as an unwarranted
expense.  More recently, Macfarlane said Congress is spending fees
collected from nuclear utilities that should be set aside for a
waste repository “for other things, just as it did with the
Social Security,” according to a video of her October 2011
speech at the Elliot School for International Affairs, George
 Washington  University in Washington.  Reid said in a statement following Obama’s nomination
announcement that Macfarlane “will make preserving the safety
and security of American citizens her top priority.”  Criticism of Macfarlane has been muted as Environment and
Public Works Committee Chairman  Barbara Boxer , a Democrat from
 California , coupled Obama’s selection of Macfarlane with the
renomination of Commissioner Kristine Svinicki, who joined the
panel in 2008 during  George W. Bush ’s administration.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said in
a May 24 interview that he didn’t anticipate Republicans would
block a vote on Macfarlane, as long as Democratic leaders
consider the nomination “in tandem” with Svinicki.  If confirmed, Macfarlane would replace  Gregory Jaczko . He
was criticized by colleagues for bullying the staff, and by the
industry for speeding up the agenda for additional safety
regulations after the triple-meltdown at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant in March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  