-- Mauritius Central Bank May Reduce Benchmark Lending Rate
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-06-11T07:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/mauritius-central-bank-may-reduce-benchmark-lending-rate.html
Mauritius’s central bank will
probably cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low today
to help boost economic growth in the Indian Ocean island nation.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Rundheersing Bheenick, may lower the repo rate by a quarter of a percentage
point to 4.65 percent, according to the  median estimate  of 11
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The decision will be announced
on the central bank’s website at 6 p.m. in Port Louis, the
capital. The bank reduced the lending rate at the last two
meetings.  “Given that inflation is under control, the risks to
growth and an increase in job losses, there is sufficient space
for the MPC to go for another decrease,” Raj Makoond, director
of the Joint Economic Council, an industry grouping, said in a
phone interview on June 8.  Mauritius’s economy is struggling because of the slowdown
in  Europe , its biggest market for tourism and exports. The
 European debt crisis  has already cut the island nation’s
economic growth rate by 1.4 percentage point to 3.6 percent,
according to Finance Minister Xavier Luc Duval.  Inflation was unchanged in May from the previous month at
3.8 percent, the lowest level in 19 months and below the central
bank’s target of 4 percent to 6 percent.  “We believe there is room for a 0.5 percent cut given
heightened concerns around domestic growth and global growth
uncertainties,” Ridle Markus, Africa strategist at  Absa Bank
Ltd. (ABSP) , said in an e-mailed response to questions on June 6.  Mauritius’s rupee weakened 0.8 percent against the dollar
to 30.1 by 11:20 a.m., in  Port Louis , the capital, extending its
losses this year to 2.6 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  