-- Aussie, Kiwi Rebound on Speculation Losses Were Overdone
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-06-12T05:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/aussie-kiwi-dollar-fall-versus-yen-on-euro-debt-crisis-concern.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars rallied from an earlier drop amid speculation recent
losses were excessive and after a private index showed the
smaller South Pacific nation’s home prices climbed last month.  The so-called Aussie and kiwi declined earlier as Asian
shares slid on concern  Italy  will become the next focus of
 Europe ’s debt crisis after  Spain  requested a bailout for its
banks. Italy will sell notes this week and Greeks will vote in a
general election on June 17. The Australian and New Zealand
dollars advanced against the yen after the  International
Monetary Fund  said the Japanese currency is “overvalued.”  “The Aussie and kiwi currencies got sold off quite hard
and we’re seeing some profit-taking at current levels,” said
Khoon Goh, a senior foreign-exchange strategist in  Singapore  at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “Today, the Aussie
might pop its head back into 99-99.50 U.S. cents range, but I
don’t think that will last. You’ll see a lot of people quite
keen to sell around that zone. Everything will depend on how the
Greek elections pan out this Sunday.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.3 percent to 98.98 U.S. cents
as of 3:29 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it declined 0.5
percent. It advanced 0.4 percent to 78.68 yen, after earlier
falling as much as 0.3 percent. New Zealand’s currency gained
0.3 percent to 77.16 U.S. cents. It added 0.4 percent 61.35 yen.  The Aussie dropped 2.7 percent in the past three months,
the worst performance among the 10 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, while the kiwi
declined 2.4 percent.  The Real Estate Institute of New Zealand Inc.’s index of
 house prices  climbed 1.7 percent in May from the previous month,
when it fell 0.3 percent, according to a statement today.  ‘Offshore Factors’  The yield on Australia’s 10-year government bond fell seven
basis points to 2.99 percent, while rates on three-year notes
declined five basis points to 2.28 percent.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, was little changed at 2.61 percent.  The South Pacific nations’ “interest-rate expectations
continue to be driven by offshore factors rather than domestic
factors,” said Gavin Stacey, the Sydney-based chief rate
strategist at  Barclays Capital .  Borrowing costs in Spain and Italy jumped yesterday after
the Iberian nation asked for as much as 100 billion euros ($125
billion) to save its banking system, making it the fourth member
of the currency bloc to seek a rescue.  “There are uncertainties about whether or not the 100
billion euros is enough to shore up the Spanish banks and
resolve the problem and whether or not the weakness in Italy is
becoming uncontrollable,” Barclays Capital’s Stacey said.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks dropped 0.9 percent,
paring yesterday’s 1.8 percent gain.  Japan’s currency is “moderately overvalued from a medium-
term perspective” and the nation’s central bank should consider
further monetary stimulus, the IMF said in a report on Japan’s
economy released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  