-- Bankers Cite ‘Confusion’ Over Federal Reserve Stress Test
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-06-11T18:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/bankers-cite-uncertainty-and-confusion-over-fed-stress-test.html
A group of U.S. bankers that advises
the  Federal Reserve  urged supervisors last month to reduce the
“uncertainty and confusion” posed by the most recent test of
banks’ ability to weather financial turmoil.  Members of the Federal Advisory Council, including Vikram Pandit, Citigroup Inc.’s chief executive officer, said the
uncertainty was generated by the “significant differences”
between the analysis used by the Fed in its stress-test models
and those used by participating banks, said the memo describing
the May 11 meeting released today by the Fed.  “Those disparities place bank boards in a highly
vulnerable position,” the memo said. “Board members are
literally compelled to ‘fly blind,’ in effect guessing about
high-stakes capital distribution decisions that can tip the
balance between the success of passing” the  stress test  and
“the market punishment associated with failure.”  Tension between banks and regulators has grown as agencies
begin to implement new rules under the Dodd-Frank Act requiring
banks to raise capital, curtail risk and rein in compensation.
The Fed in March completed its most recent stress test, which it
calls the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, and
published its own test results for the 19 largest U.S. financial
institutions.  Bankers complain that the stress test is awkward for
boards, which have to approve capital distributions before the
Fed gives final approval to such decisions. The Fed can overrule
a board if it thinks a bank needs a higher capital buffer.  Regional Banks  The KBW Bank Index, which tracks 24 large U.S. and regional
banks, fell about 1.6 percent to 42.93 at 2:08 p.m. in  New York .
The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.6 percent to 1,318.98.  Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo , who attended the May meeting
along with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , said in April that the Fed would consider “both
substantive and procedural improvements” in the stress-test
process.  “Over the coming months we will be consulting extensively
with academics, other analysts, and the banks themselves,”
Tarullo said in an April 10 speech in  Chicago . “We are forming
an advisory group of academics and other experts to advise our
internal model-validation team on an ongoing basis.”  The bankers complained that Basel III liquidity
requirements would result in banks selling holdings of
 government agency securities  and reducing certain deposits by as
much as $1 trillion. They said the proposed liquidity ratios
create an incentive to hold  government securities  even if other
assets are more liquid and carry less risk.  Liquidity Rules  The Fed on June 8 proposed capital rules under the terms of
Basel III. The regulators didn’t include liquidity rules agreed
to by Basel two years ago and are reworking them for a later
release.  The bankers said some aspects of U.S. and global regulatory
reform “could add to the risk of spillover and contagion
effects.” They complained that a “consistent bias” against
non-U.S. sovereign debt could disrupt “global efforts to
mitigate systemic risk.”  Regulators have exempted  U.S. government debt  from
regulations such as the Volcker rule limit on proprietary
trading and the single-counterparty credit limits while not
extending such loopholes to non-U.S. sovereign debt.  Compensation ‘Tension’  The bank executives also cited a growing and “unnecessary
tension” between the Fed’s goals on compensation and those of
shareholders.  “It is commonly perceived that performance goals will be
subject to supervisory criticism unless they are highly
achievable and avoid rewarding exceptional performance,” the
memo said. “Shareholders, however, rightfully want to encourage
exceptional effort and corresponding performance, and doing so
should not be viewed as inconsistent with safety and
soundness.”  The bankers said as a result of previous conversations with
the Fed that they have already increased their amount of
deferred compensation, incorporated performance-based vetting
features and improved the governance framework for determining
compensation.  The council meets four times a year and includes one banker
from each of the Fed’s 12 districts. Current members include
Citigroup’s Pandit; James Rohr, chairman and chief executive
officer of PNC Financial Services Group; and Richard Fairbank,
chairman and CEO of Capital One Financial Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  