-- BBA Names Morgan Stanley’s Anthony Browne as Chief Executive
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-06-12T10:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/bba-said-to-be-close-to-naming-morgan-stanley-s-browne-as-ceo.html
The British Bankers’ Association,
the century-old lobby group that oversees the London interbank
offered rate, named Anthony Browne, a government relations
executive at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , as chief executive officer.  Browne, a former adviser to London Mayor  Boris Johnson  and
an ex-journalist, replaces  Angela Knight  on Sept. 1, the BBA
said in a statement today. Knight said in April she would step
down after five years as CEO.  “This continues to be a time of change and reform for the
banking industry and Anthony brings with him a range of skills
and experiences to lead the organization in facing the
challenges arising,” Marcus Agius, chairman of the BBA and
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , said in the statement.  Browne joins the London-based  BBA as  regulators worldwide
probe whether banks rigged Libor, the benchmark for $360
trillion of securities. The group said in March a panel of
lenders will review how the figure is calculated amid criticism
from executives such as  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR)  CEO  Terry Smith  that
banks shouldn’t be left to police the rate.  Browne, who was selected by a nomination committee with
Agius as chairman and made up of representatives from  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , BNP Paribas SA and Citigroup Inc., has been
head of government relations for Europe, the  Middle East  and
Africa at Morgan Stanley in London for the past six months.
Before that, he was an adviser to the London Mayor on economic
and business policy, the BBA statement said in the statement.  “It will be an honor to lead the BBA, helping to resolve
the complex issues still surrounding banking five years after
the start of the financial crisis,” Browne said in the
statement. “We need to continue to lead on reform, ensuring the
banking sector meets the needs and expectations of our customers
and shareholders, and can play its pivotal role in returning the
U.K. to economic growth.”  Knight, 61, is stepping down to become CEO of Energy U.K.,
which lobbies on behalf of the energy industry. The former
Conservative party lawmaker became a figurehead for the industry
as the state took control of Northern Rock Plc and bailed out
 Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  and Lloyds Banking Group Plc during
the financial crisis of 2008.  Daily Survey  Libor is generated through a daily survey of banks
conducted on behalf of the BBA by  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  in which
firms are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from one
another for 15 time periods, from overnight to one year. A
predetermined number of quotes are excluded and those left are
averaged and published for individual currencies before noon.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 Thomson Reuters  in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  Questions about the accuracy of Libor were first raised by
the  Bank for International Settlements  in a March 2008 report
that indicated lenders were “wary of revealing” information
that could signal they were struggling to borrow funds during
the global credit crunch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  