-- Beck Said to Sign $100 Million Clear Channel Radio Deal
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-06-11T20:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/beck-said-to-sign-100-million-clear-channel-radio-deal.html
Radio talk-show host  Glenn Beck 
renewed his contract with  Clear Channel Communications Inc. (CCMO)  in a
deal that doubles his pay to $100 million over five years,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation.  Premiere Networks, the syndication unit of San Antonio-
based Clear Channel that has carried Beck’s show for 10 years,
announced the agreement today without specifying terms.  “Glenn has not only built an incredible connection to his
audience on multiple platforms, but has also established himself
as a true talent and visionary,” Julie Talbott, president of
content and affiliate relations at Premiere Networks, said in
the statement.  “The Glenn Beck Program” has seen ratings growth of
almost 50 percent and almost doubled the number of stations
carrying it to more than 400, Premiere and Mercury Radio Arts,
Beck’s production company, said in the statement. The program is
the third-highest rated in the U.S., behind hosts  Rush Limbaugh 
and Sean Hannity, according to the person.  “Who says radio is dead? The industry can still pony up
big money for proven ratings winners,” said  Paul Sweeney , a
media analyst at Bloomberg Industries.  The agreement allows Premiere to continue representing Beck
in sales of advertising on websites such as GlennBeck.com,
according to the release.  Beck, who lost his program on  News Corp. (NWS) ’s Fox News cable
channel last year, also hosts a $9.95 per month, daily video
program called GBTV that is streamed from his website.  “He’s looked at as being a major pioneer of future
business models, while still doing well on the old radio
model,” said Michael Harrison, publisher of Talkers magazine, a
trade publication, in an interview.  The  New York  Times reported the deal earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  