-- Big East Sues Texas Christian Over Failed Membership Deal
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-06-11T19:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/big-east-sues-texas-christian-over-failed-membership-accord.html
The  Big East  Conference sued  Texas 
Christian University for $5 million, claiming the school reneged
on an agreement to join the college sports organization and
instead signed on with the Big 12.  The Big East Conference, whose 16 members include  Rutgers
University ,  Georgetown University  and Villanova University, said
in a complaint filed in federal court in Washington today that
Texas Christian committed to pay $5 million if it failed to
follow through with the membership agreement reached on Nov. 29,
2010.  “TCU administrators were surprised by this lawsuit and
believe it is premature,” Texas Christian said in a statement.
“The University is hopeful for an amicable resolution of this
matter.”  The school, based in  Fort Worth , Texas, was slated to join
the conference this July and compete in 20 sports starting with
the 2012-2013 season.  “We’re headed into a realm, an arena that we’ve always
dreamed about,” Texas Christian Athletic Director Chris Del
Conte said when the deal was announced. “If you allow yourself
to dream for a little bit, to pinch yourself, it’s unbelievable.
It is a great time to be a Frog.”  The school, with about 9,000 students, was ranked third in
the Bowl Championship Series standings the week they announced
the agreement, behind top-ranked Auburn and No. 2 Oregon. The
move was intended to bolster Big East’s roster of football teams
and ensure it remained among the conferences that receive
automatic berths into one of the five BCS bowls leading up to
the national title game.  Turbulent Time  The agreement came at a turbulent time for college
athletics, though, as schools jumped from one conference to the
next, unleashing complaints from fans and faculties as decades
old rivalries and academic alliances were uprooted.  Then on Oct. 6, 2011, Texas Christian announced that it had
changed its mind about the Big East and was accepting an
invitation from the Big 12 effective July 1. Members of the Big
12 included schools that were more geographically suited such as
the  University of Texas , University of Oklahoma, Baylor
University, Oklahoma State University and Texas Tech University.  “The Big East made demand for the payment owed under the
agreement, but  Texas Christian University  has refused to make
that payment or acknowledge its obligation to do so,” the
conference alleged in the complaint.  The case is The Big East Conference v. Texas Christian
University, 1:21-cv-00953, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  Editors: Fred Strasser, Larry Siddons  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net  or Curtis
Eichelberger in Wilmington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  