-- Billionaire Fredriksen Poised for Record Seadrill Net: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-06-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/billionaire-fredriksen-poised-for-record-seadrill-net-freight.html
John Fredriksen’s $3.6 billion bet
that ever-greater demand for crude oil will be met from reserves
buried miles beneath the ocean surface is poised to reap at
least three years of  record profit  for his company  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL)   The billionaire is adding six drillships to his fleet of
four within two years, driving net income higher through 2014,
mean estimates of 60 analysts compiled by Bloomberg show. The
vessels, boring as much as seven miles under the waves, will
earn an average of $625,000 a day a year from now, 21 percent
more than in 2011, according to RS Platou Markets AS, an
investment bank in Oslo. Shares of Seadrill will rise 22 percent
in the next 12 months, according to the average of 23 forecasts.  The Hamilton, Bermuda-based company ordered the vessels
before finding clients for them, allowing it to expand faster
than rivals as rates surge. Fredriksen, who controls the world’s
biggest supertanker fleet, is betting demand will strengthen as
energy explorers move further offshore. Petroleo Brasileiro SA,
owner of the Western Hemisphere’s largest oil discovery in three
decades, will hire 20 more rigs to drill 32 new wells this year,
it said May 18.  “The industry is pushing further into deeper waters, and
drillships are the most versatile assets in the fleet,” said
James West, an analyst at Barclays Plc in  New York  whose
recommendations on the shares of offshore energy exploration and
production companies returned 26 percent in the past two years.
“Seadrill is by far the most aggressive builder, and they’ll be
in a great position to supply those ships to the market.”  Crude Carriers  The drillships cost about $600 million to build, an amount
that can be recouped in as little as four years, according to
Carnegie ASA, an investment bank in Oslo. That contrasts with
the very large crude carriers owned by Fredriksen’s Frontline
Ltd. and Frontline 2012 Ltd. The vessels, each hauling 2 million
barrels, are earning $30,314 a day, down from an average of
$97,154 in 2008, according to data from London-based Clarkson
Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Seadrill will report an 8.2 percent increase in net income
to $1.54 billion this year, the most ever, according to the mean
of 22 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. They also expect
more  profit  in each of the following two years. The anticipated
jump in charter rates means revenue from drilling in 2013 will
be 23 percent higher than in 2011, while the operating costs
rise 16 percent, according to New York-based Dahlman Rose & Co.  Shares of the company, up 1.2 percent to 202.4 kroner in
Oslo trading this year, are  forecast  by analysts to reach 246.34
kroner in 12 months. The Lloyd’s List-Bloomberg Top 50 Shipping
Index of the largest companies in the industry declined 2.3
percent since the start of January.  Future Charters  Seadrill’s strategy of speculative ordering started when
the company was founded in 2005. Most of its 27 drillships and
offshore oil rigs were bought that way, said Alf Christian Thorkildsen, chief executive officer of the management unit.
That means the company can add capacity at a time of rising
rates more quickly than rivals who need to lock in charters, as
well as giving it the first slots at ship yards.  “We get a chance to have an advantage on others that are
not ready to build on spec,” Thorkildsen said by phone June 6
from Stavanger,  Norway . “That’s where the excitement is. We are
all a bit more certain about the future based on finds and what
we see in the offshore part of the world.”  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the biggest owner of drillships, hasn’t
ordered a new one since at least 2010, data from the company
show. Speculative building isn’t good for Transocean or for the
industry because it can lead to a capacity glut, CEO Steven Newman told analysts on a conference call in August. The
Vernier, Switzerland-based company has two drillships under
construction from its October acquisition of Aker Drilling ASA.  Underwater Exploration  The acceleration in underwater exploration for oil and gas
may slow as prices slump. Crude tumbled 16 percent to $83.35 a
barrel in New York this year on mounting concern about global
growth as natural-gas futures tumbled 25 percent to $2.241 per
million British thermal units because of a U.S. supply glut.  Spending on exploration and production fell 15 percent in
2009, a year after oil plunged 53 percent amid the global
recession, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries
energy analysts led by Christian O’Neill. While Australia and
 China  cut  interest rates  last week to boost growth, crude
futures plunged as much as 3.3 percent on June 8 after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  damped investors’ expectations
for monetary stimulus in testimony to Congress.  Macondo Well  Offshore exploration also may be stymied by increasing
environmental-impact concerns. An explosion in April 2010 at BP
Plc’s Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico  killed 11 workers and
caused the biggest offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. The
Deepwater Horizon rig drilling the well and operated by
Transocean sank. London-based BP agreed in March to pay at least
$7.8 billion to settle private claims.  Petrobras, as Rio de Janeiro-based Petroleo Brasileiro is
known, found about 6.5 billion barrels of oil and natural gas in
its Lula field about 150 miles off the coast of  Brazil ,
according to the U.S. Department of Energy. The reserves are as
much as 3.4 miles under the ocean surface.  Slowing economic growth is proving no bar to rising oil
demand, according to the  International Energy Agency , which last
month raised its estimate for global consumption by 80,000
barrels to 90 million barrels a day. Even after this year’s
slump, crude prices are still 26 percent above the 10-year
average, stoking spending on exploration.  Land Reserves  Depleted land reserves are spurring more drilling at sea,
where the deepest find has been Murphy Oil Corp.’s Lloyd Ridge
370 Diamond discovery in the Gulf of Mexico in 2008, in waters
almost 1.9 miles down. The latest drillships, held in place by
thrusters, can work in seas 2.2 miles deep and extract crude
from wells seven miles down, Seadrill’s website shows. The
average depth of new discoveries since 2011 was 2,000 feet, from
1,600 feet in the preceding five years, according to London-
based Infield Systems Ltd., an industry consultant.  Drillships also carry more of their own equipment than oil
rigs, giving them an advantage in remote locations that are
harder to resupply. A jack-up rig, which stands on the ocean
floor, can work in depths of up to 500 feet. A semi-submersible
rig using flotation tanks goes as deep as 1.9 miles, data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.  Seadrill is the world’s third-largest owner of drillships
after Transocean and Baar, Switzerland-based  Noble (NE)  Corp. Shares
of Transocean rose 9.7 percent to $42.10 this year and will
reach $64.84 in 12 months, the average of 28 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg shows. Noble advanced 4.2 percent to
$31.50 and will be at $45.89 in a year, based on 27 forecasts.  Morgan Stanley  At least 20 offshore  oil fields  were discovered every year
since 2006, Noble CEO David Williams said on a conference call
last month. About 284 wells will be drilled at sea this year, 20
percent more than in 2011, Morgan Stanley estimates. Companies
are spending four times more than a decade ago on exploration
and production to pump 45 percent more oil and gas, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg Industries’ energy analysts.  Contracting demand in  Europe , which accounts for about 16
percent of global oil consumption, will be offset by expanding
needs in developing economies from  Africa  to  Asia  to  Latin
America , according to the Paris-based IEA. That’s also helping
to lift returns for other types of ships.  LNG Tankers  Rates for VLCCs rose 28 percent in the past year, according
to Clarkson. While they exceeded the $24,100 that Hamilton,
Bermuda-based Frontline says it needs to break even, returns
slumped from as much as $166,000 in 2008 because of a capacity
glut. Fredriksen, 68, split Frontline in two in January to
withstand the slump. With stakes in companies owning tankers,
dry-bulk commodity carriers, liquefied-natural-gas ships,
container lines and fish farms, Fredriksen has public assets
valued at more than $9 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  There are currently 87 drillships operating, according to
IHS Inc., a research group based in Englewood,  Colorado .  Samsung (010140) 
Heavy Industries Co. has orders for 21 new ones valued at about
$11.7 billion, according to Clarkson, which estimates a total
order book of 54 of the vessels. Samsung, based in Seoul, is
building six for Seadrill. The second-largest builder of the
ships is Ulsan, South Korea-based Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.  The number of drillships compares with a global rig fleet
of 3,335, Baker Hughes Inc. data show. The industry will need
twice as many by the end of the decade, estimates Rystad Energy
AS, an Oslo-based consultant to  oil companies .  “Existing fields are declining fast,” said Jarand Rystad,
managing partner at Rystad Energy. “Offshore oilfields need to
deliver to avoid a too-high oil price and further slowdown of
the global economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  