-- Billionaire Roccas Lose 76% After Usiminas Bet: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-06-11T17:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/billionaire-roccas-lose-76-after-usiminas-bet-corporate-brazil.html
Usiminas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA ,  Brazil ’s second-biggest steelmaker, is an investment
that keeps on losing for  Italy ’s billionaire Rocca family.  The Rocca’s  Techint Group  has lost 76 percent on its 5.03
billion-real ($2.49 billion) purchase since November, when it
agreed to pay 36 reais per voting share for a 27.7 percent stake
in Usiminas, as the company is known. The stock slumped to 8.70
reais on June 8 in Sao Paulo as investors anticipate Brazil’s
No. 2 steelmaker by output will struggle to increase profits.  Usiminas, based in Belo Horizonte, has underperformed
 Gerdau SA (GGBR3)  and Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA since the Roccas paid
a 58 percent premium over the 20-day moving average to join
 Japan ’s  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  in its controlling group. The stock
has dropped on fading prospects of other companies seeking to
enter the control group, according to Barclays Plc., while a
global steel glut and lower demand has curbed profitability.  “Techint is trying to find a way to revert this situation
as soon as possible but the options they have are limited,”
Rafael Weber, who helps manage about 7 billion reais at Geracao
Futuro Corretora in  Porto Alegre , Brazil, said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t see any clear recovery this year.”  Techint, through its  Ternium (TX)  SA and Tenaris SA units,
bought the stake to gain greater access to the Brazilian market
for flat steel used in cars and home appliances and to iron-ore
assets in the southeastern Brazilian state of  Minas Gerais .  First Quarter Loss  Usiminas posted a first-quarter net loss of 70.8 million
reais on April 23, its worst in three years and its second loss
in five quarters as sales fell and a weaker real boosted the
company’s financial expenses. Crude-steel output declined for a
sixth consecutive quarter, to 1.67 million metric tons, as the
Brazilian government’s efforts to spur economic growth failed to
stem a plunge in car sales.  Techint is controlled by the Roccas through Luxembourg-
based holding company San Faustin SA. Paolo Rocca is chairman of
Ternium and  Tenaris (TEN)  and brother Gianfelice chairs San Faustin.
They had a net worth of 8.5 billion euros ($10.6 billion) as of
August 2011, according to Milan-based newspaper Milano Finanza,
which  listed  them as first in its list of Italy’s largest
publicly traded fortunes.  Usiminas’s profit margins averaged 4 percent at its steel
unit during the first quarter, similar to those in 2011 and
lower than the 16 percent posted in 2010. Gerdau’s gross profit
margins in Brazil averaged 13 percent in the first quarter while
CSN has profit margins of 19 percent at its steel business.  ‘Complex Situation’  “Usiminas is in a very difficult and complex situation,
and this is reflected in the figures,” Chief Executive Officer
Julian Eguren said on an April 24 conference call with analysts.  An Usiminas official in  Belo Horizonte  who asked not to be
named because of corporate policy declined to comment. The
Techint Group also declined to comment.  Brazil new vehicle sales sank 9.7 percent in May from a
year earlier and were 4.8 percent lower in the first five months
of the year, according to the country’s car dealership
association, or Fenabrave, even as the Central Bank cut  interest
rates  and lowered taxes on consumer loans to revive growth in
the world’s biggest emerging market after  China .  The Brazilian economy grew 0.2 percent in the first
quarter, less than half the pace analysts predicted in a
Bloomberg survey and slower than Japan’s 1 percent expansion.
Brazil expanded at a 0.8 percent rate in annual terms from
January through March, less than the 2 percent growth registered
by the U.S. and almost a sixth of the 4.6 percent growth of
 Mexico ,  Latin America ’s second largest economy.  ‘Lot of Optimism’  “There has been an awful lot of optimism in Brazil of a
rebound in the second half, we are very close to that and things
don’t seem to be getting better”, Jonathan Brandt, an equity
analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, said by telephone from  New York .
“If anything, they seem to be getting a little bit worse.”  Brandt lowered his recommendation on Usiminas’ preferred
shares to the equivalent of sell on Feb. 7, citing “high
operating costs, low utilization rates, and lack of
integration.”  Usiminas’  preferred shares  rose 4.7 percent to 8.05 reais
as of 2:33 p.m. in  Sao Paulo , while the voting shares rose 4
percent to 9.05 reais.  Moody’s Cut  Moody’s Investors Service lowered Usiminas’s credit rating
two levels to Ba2 on May 10, making it the first Brazilian
company to lose its investment grade this year. The downgrade
reflects the “continued deterioration” in the company’s
operating results, Moody’s said in a statement at the time.  “We again exercise caution on the pace of recovery and
believe a more meaningful improvement is years away,” Barclays
analysts led by Leonardo Correa in Sao Paulo said in a May 23
research note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  