-- BMW Courts Bloggers for $110 Million Online Boost: Cars
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-06-11T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/bmw-courts-bloggers-for-110-million-online-boost-cars.html
Adnan Ebrahim was blogging about
cars alongside his university studies until  Volvo (175)  Cars invited
him last year for a test drive. The hobby has now turned into a
full-time job, as luxury-auto makers work to reach new buyers.  “If you can demonstrate to Lamborghini or Ferrari that you
can drive a million views to a video, they’re more than happy to
lend you a car,” said Ebrahim, 21, who runs the London-based
website  CarThrottle.com . “Traditional media still has quite a
large reach and readership, but it’s changing pretty quickly.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and
other luxury brands are boosting efforts to court bloggers such
as Ebrahim to target a growing audience of would-be buyers who
can’t be reached through TV and newspaper ads. The feedback from
blog comments and Twitter feeds also flows back to affect
styling and sales forecasts. BMW claimed an 88 million-euro
($110 million) revenue gain for its 1-Series line by wooing
customers with a web-only campaign.  “It is especially important for luxury-car makers to build
an emotional attachment to the brand,” said  Stefan Bratzel ,
director of the Center of Automotive Management at the
University of Applied Sciences in  Bergisch Gladbach , Germany.
The web “is a domain of the younger generation, but Generation
Y is now reaching an age where it can afford luxury cars.”  Online advertising spending by carmakers in the U.S. may
surge 57 percent to $1.4 billion by 2016, Chantilly, Virginia-
based consultancy BIA/Kelsey predicts. That beats the projected
8.2 percent rise in total ad spending to $10.6 billion.  Targeting BMW  The online growth reflects increasing competition,
especially in  luxury vehicles , where Mercedes and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Audi have vowed to surpass BMW by the end of the decade.
Munich-based BMW is using the Internet to keep them at bay,
crediting a web campaign for boosting production of the M
performance version of the 1-Series coupe by 68 percent.  BMW teased different aspects of the sporty variant of the
two-door compact, which starts at 51,500 euros, 84 percent more
than the base model, in a series of videos posted on  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube months ahead of its May 2011 debut. The five
videos, which encouraged blog comment, garnered a total of 3.1
million views, with more than 20,000 people providing contact
details as a result, according to BMW.  “These are leads that said ‘I want to have this car,’”
said Florian Resinger, BMW’s head of social media. “This was
one of the best returns on investment in media and marketing
that we’ve had so far.”  The database of potential buyers created by the campaign
helped lead to an increase in the production run to 4,200
vehicles from 2,500, Resinger said. The additional volume of the
model is equivalent to 88 million euros in revenue, based on the
model’s starting price.  BMW Demographics  “Prospective BMW customers have a higher income on
average, higher education, and this has a correlation to higher
internet usage,” Resinger said.  While BMW is forecast to triple internet advertising
spending in its home market of Germany this year to 1.3 million
euros, it is still outspent by Audi’s 3.3 million euros and
Mercedes-parent Daimler’s 3.7 million euros, according to
research by Nielsen Holdings N.V.  Those figures are dwarfed by TV spending, which totaled
12.3 million euros for Daimler and 10.3 million euros for Audi,
according to Nielsen, the New York-based research company. BMW
gets by with just 3.5 million euros for TV ads. The continued
dominance of TV and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s move to scrap ads on
 Facebook (FB)  reflect the web’s limits.  Supplementing TV  “Automakers all have work-horse marketing, where they just
run a ton of TV commercials,” said Nick Parish, editor of New
York-based advertising quarterly  Contagious Magazine . “They’re
getting to the point with social media where some of that can
help supplement it, but it’s not carrying the load yet.”  The feedback from online marketing also offers the
opportunity for manufacturers to avoid costly flops. VW’s
Bentley garnered unflattering reviews after presenting a sport-
utility vehicle concept at the  Geneva motor show  in March.  “Still not recovered from seeing that Bentley SUV yet ...
*shudder*,” Oliver Bock-Brown, who blogs for  Oversteer ,  said  on
the micro-blogging site Twitter on March 12, echoing views
expressed by other users.  The styling is still being worked on and “the online
feedback will be used by us as we develop the concept further,”
said  Richard Durbin , a spokesman for the Crewe, England-based
brand.  Blogger Junkets  The capability of bloggers to influence online opinion is
at the core of carmakers’ efforts to reach out to them,
including junkets. This means that bloggers are more regularly
invited to attend model introductions and test-drive events.
This is especially true in  China , the world’s biggest car
market, where 60 percent of customers can be reached online,
according to Juergen de Graeve, an Audi spokesman.  CarThrottle’s Ebrahim, whose site boasts 75,000 monthly
visitors and 2,500 Twitter followers, is riding the trend. In
the past month, he has been flown to Barcelona to review the
Toyota GT86 sports car,  Austria  for the Lexus GS and  Germany  to
see the Mitsubishi Outlander, with the carmakers picking up the
tab. A trip to  Portugal  for the introduction of the Skoda Citigo
stands out.  After a private jet ride from Farnborough airport in the
U.K., the cars were waiting at the airport to be driven through
the mountains around Lisbon. At lunch, the entourage stopped for
olive-oil tasting.  “If you’re part of the big boys’ club, you’re used to this
sort of thing, but it’s new for us,” Ebrahim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  