-- BOE’s Posen Says He Was Too Optimistic When Quitting QE Push
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-11T14:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/boe-s-posen-says-he-was-too-optimistic-when-quitting-qe-push.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Adam Posen  said that more asset purchases by central banks could aid
the economy, and that he was “too optimistic” when he
abandoned a push for more stimulus in April.  “Further asset purchases by central banks can improve the
economic situation we are now in,” Posen said in a speech in
London today. He also said it is “time for the major central
banks, including the Bank of  England , to engage in purchases of
assets other than government bonds.”  The Bank of England, which has bought 325 billion pounds
($505 billion) of government bonds since it began its
 quantitative-easing program  in 2009, left the target for
purchases unchanged this month. Posen was in a minority on the
Monetary Policy Committee in March in voting to increase
stimulus, before he switched his position in April.  Posen said in a footnote to his speech that his vote for no
change to asset purchases in April and May “reflected my
expectation that prior quantitative easing measures would be
sufficient to give the  British economy  a good chance of
returning to sustainable growth consistent with meeting the
inflation target.”  “I was too optimistic about the other forces at work,
including the impact of the” European Central Bank’s long-term
loans and the effectiveness of the Bank of England’s QE program,
he said. Minutes of this month’s MPC meeting will be published
on June 20.  ‘Petered Out’  U.K.  government bonds  stayed lower after Posen’s remarks.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year gilt increased three basis
points, to 1.65 percent as of 3:31 p.m. London time. Two-year
yields were one basis point higher at 0.25 percent.  Posen said the economic recovery has “petered out in the
U.K. and elsewhere,” and the “risk of disorder in the euro
area has reinforced the trends towards excessive reluctance to
invest.”  Spain  requested as much as 100 billion euros ($125
billion) of European bailout funds last week to shore up its
banking system.  The policy maker, whose term on the Monetary Policy
Committee ends in August, said further asset purchases by
central banks “should take the form of private sector
securities for the time being.”  “This will allow more direct targeting of financial sector
dysfunctions, and greater impact on liquidity preferring
investors’ portfolios, thereby leading to greater impacts on
confidence and on the real economy than a similar unit of QE on
government bonds,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  