-- Bollard Seen Holding N.Z. Rate as Odds for Cuts Gain on EU
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-06-12T00:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/bollard-seen-holding-n-z-rate-as-odds-for-cuts-gain-on-eu-risks.html
New Zealand  is forecast to keep
 interest rates  at a record low for longer than it did during the
global financial crisis as  Europe ’s debt turmoil and slower
export growth increase the odds of policy easing.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard will
leave the official cash rate at 2.5 percent for a 10th straight
meeting on June 14, according to all 16 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. A shadow board set up by the New Zealand
Institute of Economic Research Inc. said the central bank should
hold rates, while saying the panel was “now more inclined” to
consider a rate cut as appropriate.  Investors are pricing in a 75 percent chance of lower
borrowing costs at the September meeting on concern a June 17
Greek election could disrupt financial markets and derail the
global economy. While  China  and  Australia  cut rates this month,
economists said New Zealand may hold fire for now in case
Europe’s turmoil escalates, slowing  exports  that the Pacific
nation relies on for about 30 percent of gross domestic product.  “The best strategy for the RBNZ will be to leave the cash
rate on hold, thereby leaving it the ability to respond to a
meltdown in Europe should it occur,” said Dominick Stephens,
Auckland-based New Zealand chief economist for  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)   The shadow board, a group of academics, economists and
business executives, sees a lower policy rate as more acceptable
than it did in April, according to an e-mailed statement
released today. Seven of its nine members said Bollard should
leave the  benchmark rate  unchanged, while two prefer a cut.  Longer Pause  The board is a pilot run by the Wellington-based institute
to encourage debate on each rate decision. The participants
indicate where they think rates should be, not what they expect
will happen, the institute said.  Bollard, a former director of the NZIER, has kept the cash
rate unchanged since March last year. Keeping the benchmark at
2.5 percent this week would mark a longer pause at that level
than the span from April 2009 to June 2010.  The chance of a quarter-point cut on June 14 fell to 22
percent at 11:30 a.m. in Wellington from 42 percent a week ago,
according to  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg. The
odds have eased as the  New Zealand dollar  declined and reports
showed a lift in house sales and dairy prices.  The currency has dropped more than 5 percent the past three
months after Bollard said its first-quarter gains were hurting
exports and that if sustained, they may cause the central bank
to reassess its policy outlook.  House Sales  May house sales rose 24 percent from a year earlier,
according to Real Estate Institute Inc. figures published today.
Whole-milk powder prices rose at Fonterra Cooperative Group
Ltd.’s auction on June 5, ending a seven-month decline.  Bollard will probably join central bankers in  Indonesia ,
 Thailand  and the  Philippines  in refraining from rate cuts ahead
of the Greek election, according to Bloomberg surveys of
economists.  “Should the global situation take a turn for the worse,
the RBNZ stands ready to act,” said Robin Clements, chief New
Zealand economist at UBS AG in Christchurch. “It is far better
to keep the powder dry just in case the 250 basis points
available are needed.”  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  reduced
the overnight cash rate target by a quarter point on June 5,
citing the outlook for Europe and prospects of slower growth in
China, Australia’s biggest trading partner.  Australian Growth  Still, investor bets of further cuts were reversed by
subsequent reports showing the Australian economy grew 1.3
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier and it
unexpectedly added 38,900 jobs in May.  New Zealand’s economy is giving mixed signals, with export
volumes, retail sales and  home construction  falling in the first
three months of the year.  Bollard’s March forecast that first-quarter growth would be
0.6 percent is likely to be optimistic, according to Clements
and economists such as  Darren Gibbs , chief New Zealand economist
at Deutsche Bank AG.  The central bank will publish fresh forecasts in a monetary
policy statement also due June 14, including a weaker near-term
growth outlook amid faltering household spending, Auckland-based
Gibbs said.  “Continued global unrest seems bound to encourage a
continuation of cautious behavior across the broader household
and business sector,” he said in an e-mailed report. Government
plans to curb spending to achieve a  budget surplus  by 2014-15
will also slow growth, he said.  Christchurch Rebuild  The central bank may forecast faster growth in 2013 and
2014 as a NZ$30 billion ($23 billion) rebuild of the South
Island city of Christchurch accelerates. The city has been
struck by several damaging earthquakes, including a temblor in
February 2011 that killed 185 people. Parts of the central
business district remain closed 16 months later.  Bollard in March signaled that quake reconstruction, and
the pressure that it is forecast to put on inflation, will
require the central bank to raise  interest rates  eventually.  All 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the next
move will be a rate increase, with two forecasting a rise in
December.  Still, Gibbs said a rate cut probably will stay in
Bollard’s arsenal.  “The RBNZ will project a flat track for the cash rate
through mid-next year,” he said. “We would be surprised if the
commentary accompanying the forecasts did not at least open the
door to a modest policy easing over coming months should the
economy seem likely to continue to disappoint.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  