-- Bombardier to Help China’s First Jetliner Win Overseas Approvals
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-11T01:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/bombardier-to-help-china-s-first-jetliner-win-overseas-approvals.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  plans to help
Commercial Aircraft Corp. of  China  win overseas approval for the
in-development C919 plane that’s leading the country’s challenge
to  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS.  The Canadian aircraft maker can help Comac as it has
experience from winning approvals for 26 regional and business
aircraft worldwide over 20 years, more than either Boeing or
Airbus, Senior Vice President Chet Fuller said in an interview
in Beijing yesterday, where he is attending the International
Air Transport Association annual meeting.  Bombardier is working with Comac on new aircraft to help
cut development costs and to gain greater access in China as it
works on its own CSeries plane. The CSeries, which sits 110 to
145, competes against the smaller versions of Boeing and Airbus
narrowbody planes.  “We intend to have much more success in China,” Fuller
said. Montreal-based Bombardier has sold fewer aircraft in China
than Boeing or Airbus, he said. The planemaker said it has sold
75  business jets  and 30 commercial aircraft in  Greater China .  Bombardier and Comac said in March that the C919 and
CSeries would share a common cockpit, paring research costs and
boosting the appeal of the planes as pilots will be able to fly
both of them with little extra training. The two have also
committed to joint-purchasing of aluminum alloys and Chinese
companies will supply parts including the fuselage for the
CSeries.  “Bombardier signed its first big cooperation agreement
with China five years ago but it hasn’t gotten any CSeries
orders in return,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice president for
Teal Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based aviation forecaster.  Complementary Planes  The C919 sits 168 passengers, compared with about 150 in
the  Airbus A320  and  Boeing 737 . It’s also larger than the
CSeries, which means the two planes don’t directly compete,
Fuller said.  “The Comac C919 is a direct competitor with both the
Boeing and Airbus single-aisle products and not a competitor
with us,” Fuller said. “We’re more complementary to the
C919.”  Comac has said it expects the C919, China’s first large
passenger jet, to perform its first test flight in 2014 and to
enter service in 2017.  Bombardier has no specific dates in mind for when it
expects the plane to get Western certification, Fuller said.
Certification begins with the development of the plane, however,
as every step in designing and building the jet needs a paper
trail for the authorities.  Bombardier won its first pledge for a CSeries order, from
Deutsche Lufthansa AG, in July 2008. Four years later, it has
138 firm orders from 11 customers. The aircraft is due to enter
service late next year.  Magic Number  The planemaker wants to have as many as 30 customers by the
time the aircraft starts flying commercially and to boost this
to 40 within the following two years, Fuller said.  “Forty’s the magic number,” he said. ‘That’s when the
plane becomes financially liquid, and the whole goal for us is
to remove the  liquidity premium .”  That is, a plane must have a critical mass in the market so
that financial backers for airlines or lessors feel confident
they can find a market for planes if they need to sell them at
some point.  Bombardier is talking to 70 potential airline customers,
Fuller said. He declined to comment on whether it expects to
capture new business by the Farnborough Air Show in July, an
event manufacturers often use to trumpet orders.  --Andrea Rothman. Editors: Neil Denslow,  Garry Smith   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Andrea Rothman in Beijing at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  