-- Bond Bubble Dismissed as Low Yields Echo Pimco’s New Normal
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-06-11T17:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/bond-bubble-dismissed-as-low-yields-echo-pimco-s-new-normal-1-.html
Mohamed El-Erian knows why bond
markets from the U.S. to  Germany  to Brazil, where yields have
dropped to record lows even though debt has ballooned to more
than $40 trillion worldwide, aren’t a bubble waiting to burst.  “We may be in a synchronized slowdown” in global economic
growth, El-Erian, who as chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co. oversees $1.77 trillion, said in a
June 6 telephone interview. “We could stay here for a while.”  The average yield on bonds issued by the Group of Seven
nations has fallen to 1.120 percent from 3 percent in 2007, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Germany’s two-year
note yield fell below zero for the first time on June 1, while
 Switzerland ’s has been negative since April 24, meaning
investors are paying for the right to lend the nation money.  Those rates suggest that bondholders don’t expect growth to
exceed 3 percent, said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s
Capital Markets Group in New York. The rate had represented the
dividing line between growth and recession as recently as 2009,
according to the  International Monetary Fund , and compares with
an average of 4.7 percent in the five years before the financial
crisis took root in 2008.  Yields on government securities in the U.S., Germany, the
U.K., Austria, the Netherlands, Finland and Australia tumbled to
all-time lows this month as Europe’s debt crisis intensified,
manufacturing worldwide slowed and  unemployment  in the U.S.
unexpectedly rose. Even in emerging markets, such as  Brazil  and
India, engines of growth in recent years, yields signal a
slowdown and less inflation.  Slower Growth  Spain became the fourth euro member to seek a bailout since
the start of the region’s debt crisis more than two years ago
with a request two days ago for as much as 100 billion euros
($126 billion) in loans to rescue its banking system.  “As far as developed economies are concerned, the credit
market is coming to the conclusion that real economic growth
will be slower than what we’ve become  accustomed to  since the
Second World War,” Lonski said in a June 5 telephone interview.  Treasury 10-year yields closed at 1.64 percent on June 8.
 German bunds  of similar maturity finished at 1.33 percent and
Japan finished at 0.85 percent. All are below the 3 percent rise
in consumer prices worldwide forecast for this year by the
investment banking unit of London-based Barclays Plc.  No ‘Bubble’  “You’re not talking about a bubble because a bubble is
about greed,”  Jeffrey Rosenberg , chief investment strategist
for fixed income at BlackRock Inc. in New York, which has $3.68
trillion under management, said in a June 6 telephone interview.
“That’s not a reflection of ‘I expect prices to go higher and I
have to jump in,’ that’s a reflection of ‘I want to preserve my
principal.’ Negative yields reflect fear.”  Government bonds have returned about 2.5 percent since mid-
March, including reinvested interest, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Sovereign Broad Market Plus Index.
At the same time the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks lost
9.3 percent with dividends, while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Total Return Index of metals, fuels and agricultural products
fell 16 percent.  After shooting to as high as 2.4 percent on March 20,
yields on 10-year Treasuries fell as low as 1.44 percent on June
1, when the U.S. Labor Department said the  unemployment rate 
rose to 8.2 percent in May from 8.1 percent in April. Today, the
yield on the benchmark 1.75 percent note due May 2022 dropped
two basis points to 1.61 percent at 1:08 p.m. in New York,
following an 18 basis-point increase last week. The yield fell
as low as 1.59 percent after trading as high as 1.73 percent.  Central Banks  Policy makers are taking action amid the steepest slowdown
since the recession ended in 2009. Australia’s central bank cut
 interest rates  on June 5, and two days later China made its
first reduction in more than three years.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  left the door
open for a rate cut at a June 6 press conference, while
highlighting the limitations of the ECB’s tools in countering
the region’s financial turmoil. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told a Congressional committee last week that policy
makers will discuss whether to do more to spur growth after
flooding the financial system with $2.3 trillion by purchasing
bonds, though he said the steps they could take may have
“diminishing returns.”  The slowdown matches the prediction by El-Erian of Pimco in
2009 for a “new normal” in global economies characterized by a
slower pace of expansion, higher unemployment and a greater role
for governments in private markets following the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression.  ‘Turning Japanese’  Pimco officials point to Japan, which has been in and out
of recession since the mid-1990s, as what the new normal would
look like. Even though it has the world’s largest debt load at
more than $11 trillion, Japan has some of the world’s lowest
bond yields because of years of below-average growth.  Japanese 10-year yields fell to 2 percent in late 1997 from
about 5.7 percent eight years earlier when the country’s stock
and real estate markets collapsed. They haven’t closed at or
above 2 percent since 2006. The U.S. 10-year yield tumbled below
that level about four years after rising to 5.29 percent in June
2007.  Global “bond markets are turning Japanese,” Bill Gross,
who manages the world’s biggest  bond fund  as co-chief investment
officer with El-Erian at Newport Beach, California-based Pimco,
said in a June 4 Twitter posting.  Too Low  “In many ways, we are replicating the Japanese
experience,”  George Magnus , senior economic adviser in London
at UBS AG, said in a June 5 telephone interview. “Banks and
households have become overextended, and now we know governments
have also become overextended. The problem is that the
deleveraging means people are saving more. There is no
sufficient spending and lending to boost the economy.”  Investors from  Leon Cooperman , founder of equity hedge fund
Omega Advisors Inc., to  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman
of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., have said that investors should
avoid bonds. Most bears say the easy money policies of central
banks combined with the rising amount of debt will eventually
spark a rapid acceleration in inflation.  “The government bond bubble will burst,”  Marc Faber ,
author of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report, told Sara Eisen on
Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” on June 7. “I don’t
know whether it’s going to be tomorrow or in three months. But I
suspect that it will happen sooner rather than later because the
consensus now is to buy U.S. Treasuries.”  Central Banks  The supply of bonds has swelled as governments borrowed to
stimulate their economies. The Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Broad Market Index tracks debt issues with a face value
of $40 trillion, up from $24 trillion in June 2007 and $15
trillion a decade ago.  Central banks, including the Fed, ECB and  Bank of Japan (8301) ,
have helped soak up the extra supply as policy makers injected
money into their economies by purchasing government securities.
The  balance sheets  of the world’s six biggest central banks have
more than doubled since 2006 to $13.2 trillion, according to
Chicago-based Bianco Research LLC.  “A lot of people from Warren Buffett on down would say the
bond market has no value, be careful of bonds, when rates go up
you’ll lose a lot of money,” James Bianco, president of the
firm, said in a June 7 telephone interview. “And they’re right,
but the buyer of bonds doesn’t care about value right now. The
buyer of bonds is the central bank of Japan, the central bank of
China.”  Auction Bids  Financial institutions are also contributing to  demand ,
buying from a shrinking supply of the highest quality debt to
meet capital requirements set by the Basel, Switzerland-based
Bank for International Settlements. The Basel III rules will
“increase the price of safety” embedded in assets deemed a
reliable store of value, the IMF wrote in an April 18 report.  Investors have bid $3.19 for each dollar of the $903
billion of notes and bonds auctioned by the U.S. Treasury
Department this year, above the record $3.04 in all of 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yields that are negative after accounting for inflation may
be a sign that investors expect the pace of consumer price gains
to slow, or fall like the deflation in Japan. Copper has
declined 18 percent in the past 12 months, aluminum has tumbled
23 percent, cotton plunged 47 percent and oil has dropped about
14 percent.  A  measure  of investor expectations for inflation used by
the Fed to set policy, the five-year, five-year forward break-
even rate, which gauges the average increase in prices between
2017 and 2022, dropped to 2.56 percent on June 4, from a 2012
high of 2.78 percent on March 19.  Japan’s Experience  Emerging market sovereign yields fell to 5.33 percent last
month, within two basis points of the record low reached in
November 2010, according to the JPMorgan Emerging Bond Index
Global Sovereign Yield.  Brazil will expand 2.72 percent this year, according to a
central bank survey of analysts published on June 4. That would
follow growth of 2.73 percent in 2011, the second-worst
performance in eight years.  Two-year bond yields in Brazil fell to a record low of 8.4
percent on May 18, from about 12.6 percent a year earlier, as
the central bank cut its benchmark rate seven times since August
to bolster the economy. A bond market measure that reflects
investors’ expectations for inflation plunged to a three-year
low of 4.7 percentage points last week.  In India, where 10-year yields fell for the sixth-straight
week, the longest run of declines since December,  interest-rate
swaps  show the central bank will cut borrowing costs for a
second time this year. Asia’s third-largest economy grew 5.3
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, a nine-year
low, the government said May 31.  “Yields are extremely low for a very good reason, and
that’s fear,”  Stuart Thomson , a  money manager  at Ignis Asset
Management in Glasgow, which oversees about $115 billion, said
in an interview on June 1. “I don’t see us heading into a  bear
market .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  