-- BP Spill Judge Won’t Step Aside in Criminal Obstruction Case
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-06-11T23:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/bp-spill-judge-won-t-step-aside-in-criminal-obstruction-case-1-.html
The judge presiding over a criminal
obstruction case stemming from the  BP Plc (BP/)  2010 Gulf of Mexico
oil spill said he won’t recuse himself after attorneys on both
sides agreed he doesn’t have a conflict of interest.  U.S. District Judge Stanwood Duval in New Orleans said
prosecutors and defense attorneys indicated they have no
concerns about his impartiality after he disclosed May 31 that
he owns a camp adjacent to Grand Isle, Louisiana, the main beach
where the spill washed ashore. He also said his son works for
the BP-funded trust that is processing settlement claims for
thousands of coastal property owners, tourism and fishing
interests harmed by the spill.  Duval said in a three-sentence order posted today on the
case’s electronic docket that he’ll stay on the case after being
“informed by the clerk of court that the parties have requested
that this matter remain with the court.”  The judge is presiding over a case in which federal
prosecutors allege that former BP employee Kurt Mix, a Houston-
based oilfield engineer who worked on the London-based company’s
efforts to cap its runaway well, deleted  text messages  from his
mobile phone after receiving multiple warnings to retain them.  Joan McPhee, a lawyer for Mix, declined to comment on the
judge’s filing today.  Scott Dean , a spokesman for BP, declined to comment.  Alisa Finelli, a spokeswoman for the  Justice Department ,
declined to comment.  Duval said in the May 31 filing that he “neither has a
direct interest in the subject matter of this criminal
proceeding, nor does he believe that his impartiality might
reasonably be questioned.”  The case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-00171, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  