-- BrightSource to Bid for Solar Trust 500-Megawatt Project
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-06-11T18:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/brightsource-to-bid-for-solar-trust-500-megawatt-project.html
BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE) , a solar-
thermal developer that withdrew an initial public offering in
April, is seeking to buy an unbuilt 500-megawatt power plant
from the bankrupt Solar Trust of America LLC.  Solar Trust, a joint venture of the insolvent German
company  Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  and steelmaker Ferrostaal AG, asked
a  bankruptcy court  to schedule a June 15 hearing to approve
BrightSource as a stalking-horse bidder for its solar-thermal
Palen project in Riverside County, California, according a court
filing.  As a stalking-horse bidder, BrightSource will be able to
make a “minimum floor bid” for the Palen solar project before
a scheduled June 21 auction for Solar Trust’s assets, according
to the June 8 filing, which didn’t say what BrightSource may
bid. BrightSource, based in Oakland, California, didn’t reply to
phone and e-mail messages today.  “Since it’s already gone through many of regulatory
approvals, the project may give BrightSource the potential to
essentially skip the line and sign a power purchase with a
utility,”  Anthony Kim , analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance
in New York, said today in an interview.  Palen will have two adjacent 250-megawatt solar  plants .
Solar Trust is also seeking to sell the 1,000-megawatt Blythe
plant in Riverside County and a 500-megawatt project in Amargosa
Valley,  Nevada .  Plunging Prices  Solar Millennium filed for  bankruptcy protection  after the
plunging price of photovoltaic panels made its solar-thermal
technology less competitive. The company planned to use arrays
of trough-shaped mirrors to focus sunlight on a fluid-filled
pipe to power a steam turbine and generate electricity.  BrightSource is building the $1.6 billion Ivanpah plant in
California’s Mojave desert using a different solar-thermal
design. Its  power-tower  system uses mirrors to focus sunlight on
a boiler atop a central tower, generating steam to produce
electricity.  As of April, there were 9.2 gigawatts of solar photovoltaic
projects requesting interconnection to the grid in California,
BNEF estimated in a report. The winner of the assets up for
auction, which already has permitting and interconnection
rights, could yield the winner almost immediate access to the
grid.  Solar Trust listed as much as $10 million in assets and as
much as $100 million in debt in its April 2 Chapter 11
bankruptcy filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  