-- Buffett Pounces With $9.6 Billion Purchase of Jets
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-06-12T20:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/buffett-adds-cessna-bombardier-planes-in-9-6-billion-deal-1-.html
Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. jumped into the slumping private-jet market again with a
record order valued at $9.6 billion, betting on a rebound later
this decade with a third plane purchase in less than two years.  Buying as many as 425 jets from Bombardier Inc. and  Textron
Inc. (TXT) ’s Cessna will bolster Berkshire’s NetJets in “a long-term
bet on the global economy,” Chief Executive Officer Jordan Hansell told  Betty Liu  in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “In The Loop.”  Deliveries will start as soon as two years from now as
NetJets refreshes and looks to expand a fleet of more than 700
planes. The Columbus, Ohio-based company probably won favorable
terms as planemakers work to rebuild order backlogs, said Michel Merluzeau, an aviation consultant for G2 Solutions in  Seattle .  “This is a favorable time to buy,” Merluzeau said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s a good demonstration
of the anticipation of cycles.”  NetJets’ transaction covers as many as 275  Bombardier (BBD/B) 
Challenger aircraft, including 100 firm orders. The Cessna
portion of the deal consists of as many as 150 Citation Latitude
jets, of which 25 orders are firm, according to a statement.
Bombardier deliveries will begin in 2014, and the Cessnas will
start arriving in 2016, NetJets said.  “It’s prudent to take a stand now and make a decision now
to be sure that we’re well positioned to compete over the longer
term,” Hansell said on a conference call late yesterday.  Largest Order  The order is the largest ever for business aircraft,
according to NetJets, eclipsing the $6.7 billion list value for
the company’s March 2011 purchase of as many as 120 Bombardier
planes. In October 2010, NetJets agreed to buy as many as 125
 Embraer SA (EMBR3)  Phenoms, with a list value of $1.05 billion.  NetJets’ previous two deals were rare bright spots for a
global business-jet industry that saw the value of deliveries
tumble 29 percent from a 2008 peak through 2011, according to a
report published in April by consultant Teal Group.  “All the manufacturers want to make a deal today,” said
Janine Iannarelli, president of Houston-based plane broker  Par
Avion . “They’re able to secure significant discounts because
they are fleet orders. You wield a lot of power when you go in
and place an order like that.”  Fleet buyers typically pay less than catalog prices, and
neither planemakers nor customers disclose those terms. The $9.6
billion value for the order is based on list prices for the
jets, Hansell said, without giving further details.  NetJets’ Fleet  Hansell is building on steps taken by predecessor  David Sokol  to strengthen the fleet after the company cut back by
about 20 percent since the end of 2008 as demand fell for luxury
travel. The business-jet industry typically rests on three
pillars: operators such as NetJets, corporate buyers and wealthy
individuals.  “A portion of what we’ve ordered will replace our current
fleet, and a portion of it could be used to expand it,” Hansell
said in the Bloomberg Television interview. “We’re placing a
long-term bet on the global economy.”  The U.S. is seeing a slow rebound in its housing market
that, once completed, will help drive global economic growth and
air-travel demand, Hansell said today. NetJets is “relatively
optimistic” about  China’s economy  while  Europe , which is
struggling with a debt crisis, will “figure out its troubles
within a time frame that makes sense,” he said.  Bigger Planes  Ordering Challengers and Citations brings NetJets a bigger
class of executive aircraft after the previous Bombardier deal,
which was for planes in the Montreal-based company’s Global
series, and the purchase of Embraer’s Phenoms.  “By increasing the range and endurance of our fleet, we
will allow our owners to get to even more destinations
worldwide,” Hansell said in the statement.  Bombardier, the world’s largest business-jet maker, surged
6 percent to C$3.87 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, while Providence,
Rhode Island-based Textron rose 4 percent to $24.52 in  New York .
Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire (BRK/A)  climbed less than 1 percent to
$121,740.  NetJets showed “confidence in the growing strength and
long-term outlook of the global economy and the aviation
industry,” Cessna CEO Scott Ernest said today in a statement.  Bombardier said the order included an aftermarket support
agreement with a value of as much as $2.3 billion if all
aircraft options are exercised.  Bombardier Production  For Bombardier, the order is equal to about four years of
Challenger production, said  Walter Spracklin , an analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, who has an outperform rating on
the Canadian planemaker’s stock.  “This gives significant visibility into their product
backlog for the Challenger series and will give them the comfort
they need to raise production levels,” Spracklin said.  Bombardier’s Challengers can carry as many as 12 people,
depending on the model and the cabin configuration, according to
the planemaker’s website. Cessna’s Citation can fly as many as
eight passengers, according to a company  statement .  Larger  business jets  have been the industry’s strongest
segment in recent years, buoyed by “high net-worth individuals
in  emerging markets ,” Joseph Nadol, a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst in New York, said in a note yesterday. The NetJets order
is a “positive development” even as a slowing global economy
stokes concern that demand may wane for private jets, he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in  Dallas  at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 