-- Buffett’s Berkshire Seeks to Buy ResCap’s Mortgage Unit
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-11T22:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/buffett-s-berkshire-seeks-to-buy-rescap-s-mortgage-unit.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the holding
company run by billionaire  Warren Buffett , offered to buy
Residential Capital LLC’s mortgage unit.  Berkshire seeks to replace  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  as
the initial bidder at an auction for the bankrupt company’s
most-valuable asset.  Berkshire is also willing to become the so-called stalking-
horse, or initial, bidder for the part of ResCap’s loan
portfolio that  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  wants to buy. Berkshire said
in court papers filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
 Manhattan  that it will offer better terms than Fortress and
Ally.  “Both offers will remain open for the court to approve and
the debtors to execute on or before June 19,” Berkshire said.
On June 18,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  Judge Martin Glenn is
scheduled to consider approving auctions for the assets and
naming Fortress’ Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. and Ally as
the initial bidders.  ResCap filed for bankruptcy May 14 with plans to sell most
of its assets to Fortress. Ally, a Detroit-based bank that
specializes in  car loans , owns ResCap.  Ally supported the bankruptcy filing as a way to resolve
legal claims related to mortgage-backed securities. Ally is 74
percent-owned by the  U.S. Treasury  after receiving a bailout.  Mortgage Unit  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Ally, Gordon Runte, a
spokesman for Fortress, and Susan Fitzpatrick, a spokeswoman for
ResCap, declined to comment on Berkshire’s offer.  Fortress has offered to pay $2.4 billion for ResCap’s
mortgage unit, which makes home loans and services them.
Berkshire said it would pay the same amount as Fortress while
cutting the cost of any breakup fee.  Under a proposed sale agreement with ResCap, Fortress would
be the initial bidder at an auction overseen by the  bankruptcy
court . Should Fortress lose the auction, it would be entitled to
a $72 million breakup fee and $10 million in expense
reimbursement, according to court records.  Berkshire says it will accept $24 million as a breakup fee
and not seek any reimbursement for its expenses. ResCap may save
$60 million on the sale, should another bidder win the auction,
Berkshire said.  Loan Portfolio  Berkshire offered $1.45 billion for the loan portfolio that
Ally is seeking to buy. Ally has offered to pay $1.4 billion for
the portfolio as part of a sale that doesn’t resolve certain
potential mortgage-related lawsuits. Ally will pay $1.6 billion
should the sale close as part of a reorganization plan that
resolves the potential lawsuits, according to court documents.  Berkshire sought to buy ResCap from Ally before the
government-owned company put the home lender in bankruptcy,
three people familiar with the matter said last month.  Berkshire would have paid almost nothing up front for the
assets, while taking on potential liabilities such as mounting
litigation costs and other claims, the people said. Buffett
sought to avoid a ResCap bankruptcy filing because Berkshire had
unsecured debt in the mortgage unit, according to the people.
Ally turned down the Berkshire proposal after deciding that a
bankruptcy filing and sale better protected the company from
future liabilities, the people said.  Berkshire holds more than $900 million of ResCap’s junior
secured bonds. Berkshire, which owns the bonds directly and
through affiliates, bought the debt more than two years ago, Ted Weschler, a company investment manager, said in court papers.  ResCap’s 6.5 percent bonds due next year rose 17 percent to
20.625 cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  