-- Spanish Bonds Drop on Concern Bailout Not Enough
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-06-11T15:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/bunds-decline-as-spanish-bailout-request-cuts-demand-for-safety.html
Spanish bonds fell, pushing 10-year
yields up by the most in almost a month, on concern the nation’s
request for bank aid won’t be enough to stop  Europe ’s debt
crisis from spreading.  Italy’s securities declined as investors bet the country
would become the next focus of Europe’s financial woes after
Spain’s request for as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion)
of support. Spanish securities reversed an earlier gain on
speculation investors holding them will rank behind official
creditors in the queue for payment following the rescue.
Portuguese bonds advanced after Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said its bailout conditions may be relaxed.  “This bailout doesn’t solve the euro-region debt crisis,”
said Christian Reicherter, a Frankfurt-based analyst at DZ Bank
AG. “There is skepticism about whether the money is enough for
the banks and whether the nation might also need help, and this
will keep Spanish bonds under pressure.”  Spain ’s  10-year yield  climbed 30 basis points, or 0.3
percentage point, to 6.52 percent at 4:37 p.m. London time, the
biggest increase since May 14. The 5.85 percent bond due in
January 2022 fell 2.06, or 20.60 euros per 1,000-euro face
amount, to 95.305. The yield earlier declined as much as 20
basis points.  The two-year  yield  gained 27 basis points to 4.55 percent,
and 30-year rates increased 29 basis points to 6.76 percent.  Fourth Bailout  Spain became the fourth euro member -- following Greece,
Ireland and Portugal -- to seek a bailout since the debt crisis
began almost three years ago, after its borrowing costs
approached euro-era highs.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who took office in December
and denied the need for a banking bailout as recently as May 28,
is trying to complete the cleanup of Spanish lenders after past
efforts fell short. He’s also faced with an economy in recession
and an  unemployment rate  higher than 24 percent.  The bailout “takes the pressure off the Spanish government
in the short term but Spain still has deep economic problems,”
said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in London.  Italian 10-year bonds  dropped for a fourth day, with the
yield climbing 27 basis points to 6.04 percent, the highest
since Jan. 31.  The statement on the aid for Spain, issued on June 9,
didn’t make clear whether financing will come from the European
Stability Mechanism, the region’s permanent support fund, which
will probably start operating in July, or the temporary European
Financial Stability Facility.  Support Fund  If the cash were to come from the ESM, its treaty provides
it with preferred creditor status, junior only to the
 International Monetary Fund . The EFSF isn’t explicitly a
preferred creditor, prompting  Finland ’s Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen to demand collateral if the facility were used to
advance the money.  Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  also said Finland doesn’t
want any of Spain’s bailout to prop up unhealthy banks.  The rescue will probably draw from the permanent ESM,
German Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus said. The ESM
is the “more efficient institution” to use for a bailout
program because of its  capital structure , he said in Berlin.  “There is a stigma attached to taking help because
investors fear that they might be subordinated,” said Rainer Guntermann, a fixed-income analyst at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt .  German bunds advanced, with the 10-year yield slipping two
basis points to 1.31 percent after gaining as much as 11 basis
points. The rate slid to its record low 1.127 percent on June 1
as investors sought the securities as a haven amid the deepening
debt crisis.  Portuguese Bonds  Portugal ’s bonds rallied, with 10-year yields falling to
the lowest since September.  If Spain were to get more advantageous terms than other
countries that are under assistance programs, “there would be
an extension of those conditions to the other countries. I am
certain about that,” Passos Coelho said on television station
SIC Noticias.  The Portuguese  10-year yield  fell 41 basis points to 10.66
percent after dropping to 10.43 percent, the lowest since Sept.
5. The yield on Irish bonds due in October 2020 declined 16
basis points to 7.25 percent.  Volatility on Irish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets, followed by Italian and Spanish debt, according to
measures of 10-year debt, the spread between two- and 10-year
securities and credit-default swaps.  Previous bailouts haven’t succeeded in taming yields. The
rate on Portugal’s 10-year  bond  was 8.54 percent on April 6,
2011, the day it requested a bailout. By May 6, 2011 it had
climbed to 9.56 percent and it breached 10 percent on June 8,
2011. Ireland’s 10-year debt yielded 8.12 percent on Nov. 19,
2010, before the nation requested financial aid from the
European Union and IMF. By the end of that year it had reached
9.06 percent.  German debt returned 3.8 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities lost 3.1
percent, and Italian bonds rose 8.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  