-- California Pension Fund Down Almost 5% as Year End Looms
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-06-11T21:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/california-pension-fund-down-almost-5-as-year-end-looms.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest U.S. pension, has seen its market
value decline 4.8 percent this year after stocks fell amid the
brewing fiscal crisis in  Europe  and slowing of the U.S. economic
recovery.  The fund’s value declined to $226.1 billion as of June 8,
down from $237.5 billion at the start of its fiscal year July 1.
As recently as March 31, the fund was up  1.9 percent  for the
first nine months. Since May 1, the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  index
of stocks declined 5.8 percent. Half of Calpers’s money is
invested in equities.  “The markets have been tough for us in May and June,”  Joe Dear , the fund’s chief investment officer, told the governing
board today. “These are very difficult market conditions.”  If the  trend  continues, it would mark the third time in
five years that the fund has lost money, including a 23 percent
decline in fiscal 2009, the worst on record. While Calpers
spreads its return over 15 years to smooth taxpayers’ burden,
another loss may make it hard for the fund to meet its
assumption of 7.5 percent earnings annually to cover benefits to
1.6 million retired employees and their families.  For the 10 years ending Feb. 29, the fund is up 5.9
percent. It earned 20.7 percent last year, the best result in 14
years, led by stocks and private equity. The previous year, it
rose 11.6 percent.  Underfunding Increase  California’s state pensions in 2010 had about 81 percent of
what they needed to cover the benefits they promised, down from
87 percent in the preceding year, according to an annual study
by Bloomberg Rankings. The median for all states was 75 percent,
the data show.  The fund’s governing board in March lowered its assumed
rate of return to 7.5 percent from 7.75 percent.  The rate is
used to calculate how much money the plan will need to cover
promised benefits, and what employers must contribute. While the
fund’s actuary recommended lowering the rate to 7.25 percent,
the Calpers board said that would burden local governments when
they were already facing financial strains.  “The financial markets are challenging for all
investors,” the fund’s chief executive officer,  Anne Stausboll ,
said in a statement. “It’s important to recognize that Calpers
is a long-term investor and over the years we have achieved the
returns needed to fund benefits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  