-- Calvin Coolidge Persisted, in Deed If Not in Word
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s   a n d   D a v i d   P i e t r u s z a
-- 2012-06-11T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/calvin-coolidge-persisted-in-deed-if-not-in-word.html
The White House  messed up  its
history. That’s the contention of critics who pointed to
references recently appended to the biography pages of past
presidents on the White House website.  Scholars of  Calvin Coolidge , the president who is our
focus, found an error. The Coolidge “Did You Know?” item says
that “On Feb. 22, 1924, Calvin Coolidge became the first
president to make a public radio address to the American
people.”  Alas, Coolidge was not the first, as a retired archivist
with the  National Archives  and Records Administration,  Jerry L.
Wallace , noted in an e-mail to us. The first chief executive to
deliver a radio address was Warren G. Harding, whose dedication
of the  Lincoln Memorial  was carried over the airwaves on May 30,
1922.  What the  Barack Obama  White House did was introduce its own
comments and facts to the extant biographies of the presidents
on the White House pages. Some commentators such as  Seth Mandel 
at Contentions, the Commentary magazine blog, interpret the
effort to draw such parallels as an intrusion on past
presidents. Mandel sees the Obama administration comments as
evidence that the president, like many of his young devotees,
doesn’t “have much memory of the political world before the
arrival of The One.” You can agree or disagree with this
criticism.  Unsettled History  The real story here is not the specific Coolidge error or
whether you like the new White House comments. It is that
accurate history is becoming much harder to deliver than it used
to be. The Internet and databases have raised the bar for all
writing on history. Your authors, both students of Coolidge,
discovered this firsthand in researching an iconic quote long
attributed to Silent Cal.  Coolidge endured severe setbacks in life. Yet he
persevered. The Coolidge quotation that captures that
perseverance best was printed in a pamphlet in the 1930s by  New
York  Life Insurance Co., where the 30th president served as a
director:  “Nothing in this world can take the place of persistence.
Talent will not; nothing is more common than unsuccessful people
with talent. Genius will not; unrewarded genius is almost a
proverb. Education will not; the world is full of educated
derelicts. Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent.
The slogan ‘press on’ has solved and will always solve the
problem of the human race.”  To say this quotation is loved is an understatement.
Historians have routinely slammed anyone who dared suggest it
was not uttered by Coolidge. In the 1990s, the “Dear Abby”
advice column attributed the quotation to Ray Kroc, the wizard
behind McDonald’s. It was promptly corrected by an authority:
the late Lawrence Wikander, curator of the Coolidge Memorial
Room at the Forbes Library in Coolidge’s adult hometown of
Northampton,  Massachusetts .  Abby published  Wikander’s note  in her column: “After
Coolidge retired from public life, he served as a director of
the New York Life Insurance Co., and his inspirational statement
was distributed to that company’s agents in the 1930s.”  “Persistence” has appeared in anthology after anthology
down the decades, including the Yale Book of Quotations (page
173, 2006), William Safire’s book “Good Advice,” and one of your
authors’ books, “Silent Cal’s Almanack.” Your other author has
also quoted it.  But we found evidence that suggests the quotation was
probably not Coolidge’s. The discovery occurs now because of
technology, specifically the advent of searchable PDF files.  Quotation’s Trail  Delve into obscure trade journals or regional newspapers
and you’ll find “persistence” cited in the Middletown (New York)
Daily Times Press in November 1914 -- again without credit. In
1910, when Coolidge was still a very junior politician,
“persistence” was published in the Locomotive Engineers’ Monthly
Journal and the Crockery and Glass Journal without any
attribution.  In 1956, Norman Vincent Peale wrote that a Chicago real
estate mogul,  Arthur Rubloff , hung “persistence” on his wall,
believing it to be an old Arabic verse.  It remains conceivable that Coolidge did write
“persistence,” perhaps as a very young Northampton Republican.
But it’s doubtful. It is also doubtful that he intentionally
plagiarized. Coolidge wrote his own speeches much of the time
and removed one he hadn’t written from a collection to be
published, probably because it was not his.  The more likely sequence was that Coolidge cited
“persistence,” the quote was attributed to him and he did not
notice. The only sure thing one can say at this point about
Coolidge and “persistence” is that our article is not
definitive. It is an update. More to come.  The same tentativeness holds for the White House website,
which will doubtless see updates; the little bullets that might
be wrong will be corrected far faster than they would have been
in the days before, say, the arrival of the database ProQuest,
or before Twitter, which alerts everyone to mistakes. All
history is accelerating.  The historian  Pieter Geyl  called history “an argument
without end” and said “that is why we love it so.” Because of
technology, this old argument can only become more accurate. Who
can’t love that? The best step for historians is to check and
recheck, then hunt some more. And then, as someone said, “press
on.”  ( Amity Shlaes , a Bloomberg View columnist, is the author of
the forthcoming “Coolidge”; David Pietrusza is the author of
“Silent Cal’s Almanack.” The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Spain’s bank bailout  and
 Russia’s foolish military buildup;   Ramesh Ponnuru  on  myths of
the Wisconsin election ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on
 the death penalty and crime ; James Mann on  the Obama
administration’s Libya paradigm ; Peter J. Wallison on  the
trouble with liquidating failing banks   To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 