-- Canada Dollar Declines Against U.S. Peer on Europe Crisis
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-11T21:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/canadian-dollar-appreciates-after-spanish-bailout.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened from an
almost three-week high against its U.S. counterpart as concern
Italy may be the next euro-bloc nation to need a bailout crimped
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The currency rose earlier with U.S. stocks and raw
materials after  Spain  asked for as much as 100 billion euros
($125 billion) to save its banking system, making it the fourth
member of the union to seek a rescue. Canada’s dollar weakened
against the majority of its most-traded peers as Spanish and
Italian bonds slid on bets the aid is a short-term solution that
won’t be enough to stop turmoil from spreading before Greek
elections June 17.  “It’s been a one-way street since the European market came
in and we saw renewed pressure on Spanish bonds,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities unit, said in a telephone interview. “Sovereign
credit-default swap spreads added to that feeling of anxiety in
the market.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.5 percent to
C$1.0317 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0201, the strongest since May 22. One Canadian dollar buys
96.93 U.S. cents.  Government bonds  rose for a second day, with the yield on
benchmark 10-year debt falling five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.76 percent. The price of the 2.75 percent
securities due in June 2022 rose 46 cents to C$109.07. The yield
touched 1.615 percent on June 1, the lowest in at least six
decades, on demand for the safest and most liquid of assets.  The government will sell $2.9 billion of three-year
securities on June 13, the central bank said on its website. The
1.5 percent securities mature in August 2015.  Oil, Stocks  Crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, declined 1.7
percent after rising as much as 3 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 
500  index  dropped 1.3 percent after gaining as much as 0.7
percent.  “It’s been a bit of a disappointment that the risk rally
surrounding the Spanish bank bailout has not lasted,”  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit, said in a telephone
interview. “People are starting to think that this might be
another Band-Aid  Europe  is putting on the wound and not getting
anything resolved.”  Options traders are becoming less bearish on the Canadian
dollar. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate,
which measures the premium charged for the right to buy the U.S.
dollar against the loonie versus contracts to sell, traded at
2.7 percentage points, down from 2.8 percentage points since the
end of last week.  Implied Volatility  Risk reversal levels are still elevated. The rate climbed
to 3.2 percentage points at the end of May, from as low as 1.35
in January. It averaged 0.9 percentage point since 2007.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback on June 7 decreased to its lowest
level since May 10. It surged to 10.31 percent, the highest
point since Jan. 6, after falling to 6.59 percent on April 30.
The five-year average is 12 percent. Implied volatility, which
traders quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected
pace of currency swings.  Seven months after winning a landslide victory, Spanish
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  was forced to abandon his bid to
recapitalize banks without external help.  Italy  has 2 trillion
euros of debt, more as a share of its economy than any developed
nation other than Greece and Japan.  ’Dragged Around’  Spanish and Italian 10-year bonds fell for a fourth day,
reversing earlier gains. The Spanish yields rose 29 basis points
to 6.51 percent, while the rate on the Italian securities
climbed 26 basis points to 6.03 percent.  “The Canadian dollar is being dragged around by general
risk sentiment,”  John Curran , senior vice president in Toronto
at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer, said
in a telephone interview. “While it’s good news that the
bailout is occurring, there’s still lots more that needs to be
addressed.”  Canada’s industrial companies are expected to report that
their use of production  capacity  in the first quarter held
steady at 80.5 percent, according to the the median estimate of
11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Statistics Canada  will
release the data on June 14.  The loonie is down 0.1 percent over three months against
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has gained 4.3 percent and the
yen is up 8.4 percent. The euro has slumped 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  