-- CFTC May Skip Cost-Benefit Analysis for International Oversight
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-11T19:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/cftc-may-skip-cost-benefit-analysis-for-international-oversight.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission , already fighting lawsuits challenging the economic
basis for two rules, may release a proposal for cross-border
derivatives oversight that won’t require analysis of its costs.  The CFTC is preparing so-called interpretive guidance on
the international reach of Dodd-Frank Act rules that may be
proposed at a June 21 meeting, according to two people who
requested anonymity because the schedule isn’t public.  Releasing guidelines rather than proposing rules to govern
trading at banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  would mean the agency doesn’t
have to do cost-benefit analysis. Financial-industry lawsuits
alleging flawed analysis have slowed Dodd-Frank rulemaking.  “It allows the agency to maintain the highest level of
flexibility as the rest of the rules are completed and the rest
of the world stands up,”  Steven Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman,
said today in a telephone interview.  U.S. banks have said applying Dodd-Frank rules to their
overseas branches would threaten their ability to compete with
foreign-based rivals. Imposing the law’s margin requirements on
non-U.S. swaps would “eviscerate our ability to serve clients
overseas and cede the global market,” JPMorgan Associate
General Counsel  Don Thompson  said at a House hearing Feb. 8.  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said last week that JPMorgan’s
May 10 disclosure of at least $2 billion in trading losses on
 credit derivatives  shows the need to extend the law’s reach.  ‘Stark Reminder’  The losses are “a stark reminder of how swaps traded
overseas can quickly reverberate with losses coming back into
the  United States ,” he said in a June 7 speech in New York.  Dodd-Frank regulations should cover transactions with
overseas branches of U.S. banks, affiliates that are guaranteed
by a U.S. parent company and affiliates that act as conduits for
a U.S. entity’s swap activity, Gensler said.  “Depending on the extensiveness of the requirements that
are going to be imposed through guidance, the CFTC needs to be
careful that it complies with its requirements,” Donald N. Lamson, Washington-based counsel at Shearman & Sterling LLP,
said today in a telephone interview. “It would be ill-advised
to avoid a cost-benefit analysis and choose to issue substantive
requirements as guidance simply to avoid the exercise,” said
Lamson, a former attorney at the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency.  Industry Lawsuits  The International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc.
and Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association sued
the CFTC last year to overturn regulations to limit excessive
speculation in  commodities markets . The groups argued that the
CFTC never studied whether the regulation was “necessary and
appropriate” or quantified the costs of implementing the rule.  The CFTC was sued on April 17 by Washington-based lobbying
groups seeking to overturn a rule requiring mutual funds with
commodities investments to register with the agency. The CFTC
didn’t properly assess the costs and benefits when it imposed
the regulation in a 4-1 vote in February, the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and the  Investment Company Institute  said in a lawsuit.  A series of legal challenges from business groups against
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ended in a federal
court ruling last year that the agency didn’t adequately analyze
the cost of a new rule. In the months since, SEC rulemaking has
ground to a near-halt, with just 24 agency economists working
full-time to provide analyses for dozens of proposed policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  