-- China’s Loans Exceed Estimates in Sign Slowdown May Be Reversed
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-11T08:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/china-s-loans-exceed-estimates-in-sign-slowdown-may-be-reversed.html
China ’s new lending in May exceeded
analysts’ estimates and money-supply growth accelerated, aiding
Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s efforts to reverse a slowdown in the 
world’s second-biggest economy.  Local-currency  loans  were 793.2 billion  yuan  ($125
billion), the People’s Bank of China  said  on its website today.
That compared with the 700 billion yuan median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 29 economists and 681.8 billion yuan in
April. M2 money supply grew 13.2 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with an estimate of 12.9 percent.  Government efforts to bolster growth span cuts in interest
rates and bank reserve requirements and delays in tightening
lenders’ capital requirements. Citigroup Inc. said today that
the central bank has signaled “aggressive” monetary easing
that may include two more interest-rate reductions this year.  “ China’s economy  is still on a downward trend,” Citigroup
economist Ding Shuang, who formerly worked for the PBOC, told
Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong  today ahead of the release.
“We do not see a clear turning point yet, and policy support is
very much needed in order to stabilize growth.”  The economy’s expansion this quarter may be “very weak”
at 7 percent to 7.5 percent, Ding said after the government
announced data for industrial production, inflation, fixed-asset
investment and exports over the past two days. Better-than-
forecast trade growth in May may not be sustained as a likely
recession in the European Union restrains demand, he said.  First Since Crisis  The central bank cut borrowing costs for the first time
since 2008 last week and loosened controls on banks’ ability to
set lending and deposit rates, stepping up efforts to combat a
domestic slowdown.  The rate-cut announcement came two days before a government
report showed  inflation  in May eased to 3 percent, the lowest in
two years, and industrial output and retail sales growth trailed
forecasts, adding to signs of moderating domestic demand.  “The decision to cut  interest rates  on June 7 indicates
that authorities are indeed concerned about the growth slowdown
and serious about easing policies,” Zhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-
based chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. said before
the release. “The PBOC will cut the reserve requirement ratio
in July to further boost liquidity.”  Lower borrowing costs should stimulate demand for loans,
Sheng Nan, a Hong Kong-based analyst with CCB International
Securities said before the data.  At the same time, banks including  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  may see
their profitability weakened as they are forced to raise deposit
rates to compete for savings.  China’s  economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in almost three years, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis crimped exports and the campaign to cool
consumer and property prices damped domestic demand.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  