-- Ctrip Leads Slump as Index Erases Gain on Year: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-06-11T22:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/china-unicom-rises-as-loan-growth-boosts-adrs-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in the U.S.
fell, led by  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , as skepticism that
 Spain ’s bailout plan will help tame  Europe ’s debt crisis
outweighed speculation that  China ’s higher-than-estimated new
lending may help stem a slowdown in its economy.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity  Index (SHCOMP)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. dropped 0.3 percent to 90.00
yesterday in  New York , erasing the year’s gain. Ctrip tumbled to
a three-year low after Mirae Asset Securities Hong Kong Ltd.
downgraded China’s biggest online travel agency to hold from
buy.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  lost 5.3 percent and Home Inns &
Hotels Management Inc. dropped the most in a month after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. cut its price estimate.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield climbed the most in almost a
month yesterday as optimism faded that the nation’s 100 billion
euro ($125 billion) bank bailout will stop Europe’s debt crisis
from spreading. Chinese lenders extended 793.2 billion  yuan 
($125 billion) in new  loans  in May, the People’s Bank of China
said, compared with the 700 billion yuan median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 29 economists. May exports and import growth
also topped estimates, data showed on June 10.  “There’s a lot weighing on investors’ minds beside Chinese
growth figures, even though the import and export numbers were
positive,”  Christopher Palmer , who helps manage $2.5 billion of
assets as London-based director of global  emerging markets  for
Henderson Global Investors Ltd., said by phone yesterday.
“Investors are still hesitant to commit to China having been
told that things were OK in Europe, which is its biggest trading
partner, and now finding out that Spain needs a bailout.”  Inflation, Production  The iShares FTSE  China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest U.S.-
listed China exchange-traded fund, dipped 0.1 percent to $32.79
in its second day of declines. The  Shanghai  Composite Index of
mainland stocks added 1.1 percent to 2,305.86, snapping a three-
day slump. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares lost
1.3 percent to 1,308.93, the biggest slump in a week.  Inflation in China slowed to 3 percent in May from 3.4
percent in April and from 5.5 percent in May 2011, the
government reported June 9. Production increased 9.6 percent,
lower than a projected 9.8 percent gain, and retail sales
climbed 13.8 percent.  The central bank cut benchmark  interest rates  last week for
the first time since 2008 after the economy expanded at the
slowest pace in 11 quarters in the January-March period, and May
consumer prices rose the least in two years.  Shanghai-based Ctrip sank 8.6 percent to $17.06.  Home Inns, Focus Media  Eric Wen, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mirae Securities,
 cut  the price target for the stock to $21 from $28 as he reduced
his recommendation rating on the company.  Shanghai-based  Home Inns (HMIN) , China’s biggest hotel chain
operator, slid 4.7 percent in its second day of decline to
$20.88. Justin Kwok, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Goldman Sachs,
yesterday reduced his 12-month price target for the company to
$30 from $37.  Focus Media, a digital advertising company based in
Shanghai, dropped 5.3 percent, the most in a week, to $19.42.  “I’m less bearish on Chinese stocks than I was three
months ago,” John-Paul Smith, Deutsche Bank AG’s London-based
emerging-market strategist, said by phone yesterday. “Chinese
stocks have retreated a lot already in the past few months and
investors’ expectations for what the Chinese economy and stocks
will likely do this year are less unrealistic now than in the
first two months of the year.”  The slump in the Bloomberg China stock measure erased its
gains this year for a 0.1 percent loss. Twenty-seven companies
in the gauge declined yesterday while 24 advanced.  China Unicom  China Unicom (CHU)  ( Hong Kong ) Ltd., the nation’s second-largest
wireless carrier, jumped the most in six weeks after its parent
agreed to buy back a 4.6 percent stake from Spain’s Telefonica
SA.  Unicom’s American depositary receipts rose 3.2 percent to
$13.98, the steepest gain since April 26. The ADRs, each
representing 10 underlying shares in the company, traded 1.9
percent  below  its Hong Kong stock, the widest discount in three
weeks. Its shares jumped 6.6 percent in Hong Kong yesterday to
HK$11.06, or $1.43, the biggest increase in nine months.  The company’s parent China United Network Communications
Group Co. agreed to buy 1.07 billion shares in the listed unit
from Madrid-based Telefonica, Beijing-based Unicom said in a
June 10 filing to the Hong Kong stock exchange. The deal,
pending regulatory approval, will probably be completed by the
end of July, Unicom said.  Shanda Earnings  Telefonica (TEF)  cut its Unicom holdings to 5 percent from 9.7
percent as Spain’s biggest phone company is under pressure to
reduce more than 57 billion euros in net debt. It agreed not to
sell any further Unicom shares for 12 months, the companies’
June 10 statements showed.  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) , China’s third-biggest online games
operator, strengthened 0.2 percent to $4.05, extending a three-
day rally.  Shanda’s first-quarter sales rose 10.9 percent from a year
earlier to 1.39 billion yuan, the company said in a statement
after U.S. markets closed yesterday. That compared with the 1.41
billion yuan average estimate of two analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Adjusted earnings were 1.36 yuan per share, compared
with 1.3 yuan a year ago and 1.2 yuan in the prior quarter, the
company said.  The Shanghai-based company’s ADRs added 1.2 percent to
$4.10 in after-market trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  