-- China’s Daily Steel Output Slides on Declining Demand, Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-11T04:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/china-s-daily-steel-output-slides-on-declining-demand-prices.html
China ’s daily steel production in
May fell from the previous month and may decline further in June
as mills cut output because of waning demand and prices.  The daily output was 1.98 million metric tons last month,
compared with 2.02 million tons in April, based on monthly data
collated by the National Bureau of Statistics. Crude-steel
output was 61.23 million metric tons in May, the bureau said
today in an e-mail, and 60.57 million tons in April.  Steel prices  in China, the world’s biggest producer and
consumer of the alloy, have fallen for eight straight weeks
because of waning demand from builders and automakers. Daily
production may drop to between 1.9 million tons and 1.95 million
tons this month, said Hu Yanping, chief analyst with researcher
Custeel.com in Beijing.  “Some mills have actually brought down production slightly
amid falling prices, as the May figures imply daily output was
lower than April levels,” Hu said. “Steel output may fall
further in June as mills are barely profitable at current
prices.”  Prices of hot-rolled coils, a benchmark product, have
fallen by an aggregate 5.1 percent to 4,170  yuan  as of June 8,
according to researcher Beijing Antaike Information Development
Co.  Production gained 2.5 percent in May from a year earlier,
the bureau said. For the first five months of this year, steel
output climbed 2.2 percent to 296.3 million tons from a year
earlier, the bureau said.  Iron ore , a steelmaking ingredient, has rebounded 1.2
percent from a record low on May 23 after China approved an
estimated $23 billion of steel projects, fueling speculation the
revived focus to sustain economic growth would boost raw
material consumption.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  