-- China Bond Market Ready for Takeoff After Bold Moves
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 6 6 9 5 8 4 2 ]   H e n r y   S a n d e r s o n   [ ] .   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 1 2 2 7 5 9 ]   D i n g m i n   Z h a n g   [ ]
-- 2012-06-11T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/china-bond-market-ready-for-takeoff-after-bold-moves.html
China  is the opposite of other major
economies when it comes to companies’ ability to raise money by
issuing bonds.  China’s 4.2 trillion yuan ($666 billion) corporate  bond
market  is just 9 percent of its gross domestic product. In the
U.S., the $7.9 trillion in fixed-income securities is equal to
more than half the size of economic output.  The government wants to change that, to give corporate
bonds a bigger role in boosting growth and to divert risk from
the state-owned banking system that provides 75 percent of the
nation’s credit. A mature bond market also would provide funding
for capital-hungry small businesses that have few options beyond
the unregulated world of shadow banking, which officials are
seeking to wrestle under control.  Guo Shuqing, the 56-year-old head of the China Securities
Regulatory Commission, has taken steps to consolidate regulatory
power over bonds since he became chairman seven months ago. He’s
set up an office to study new products, and in May the CSRC, the
equivalent of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, said
it’s considering introducing municipal bonds. In early June, Guo
launched a plan to allow small and medium-sized companies to
sell debt comparable to speculative-grade bonds in other market.  “International experience shows that overreliance on bank
credit in a financial system can, under certain circumstances,
lead to systemic risk,” Guo told the official People’s Daily
newspaper in March, saying that the bond market, which provides
13 percent of China’s debt, “seriously” lags behind the
demands of the real economy and needs to develop.  Power Grab  Three government agencies now split control over the bond
market, including the CSRC, the National Development and Reform
Commission and the central bank. The CSRC is pushing ahead with
unifying all of the regulators’ separate bond-disclosure,
credit-rating, investor-protection and entry standards,
according to a May 31 statement on its website.  Guo’s unilateral power grab may create conflict, said
 Fraser Howie , Singapore-based managing director of CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets who co-authored the book “Red Capitalism” on
China’s financial system.  “Clearly there are others who are going to want to have a
say when it comes to the fixed-income world,” Howie said.
“What he needs to do is pick fights he can win.”  If anyone can, it may be Guo. As head of the State
Administration of Foreign Exchange in 2001-2005, he pushed
through reforms by forging relationships between departments and
building support, according to Hong Weizhi, a former spokesman
for SAFE who worked with the chief regulator.  Bringing Together  “Maybe only he can bring things together, only he can
persuade relevant departments,” Hong said. “You need not worry
when you hand a job to him. He attaches great importance to
coordination and always puts state interests before his own
agency’s.”  In  April , the three bond-market regulators held their first
meeting to coordinate policy on corporate securities, according
to the central bank’s website.  “In the long run there should be a unified supervision of
this market,” said Wang Ge, an  executive director  in debt
capital markets at Goldman Gaohua Securities Co., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s joint venture in China. “Investors are eager to
invest in corporate bonds, but the market is not sophisticated
enough to allow them to hedge credit risk.”  Junk’s Debut  Guo’s moves would change that. The introduction of  junk
bonds  could allow China to have its first default, which would
then allow the market to price the risk of a company going
bankrupt and instill confidence in the market. So far, local
governments or banks have bailed out any company that risked
defaulting on its publicly traded bonds.  The debut sale went ahead as a private placement on June 8,
with a 50-million- yuan  offering by Suzhou Huadong Coating Glass
Co., based in the eastern province of Jiangsu, according to a
release on the  Shanghai Stock Exchange .  “For a mature bond market we should allow some firms to go
bust,” said John Sun, managing director at Citic Securities
International in Hong Kong. “The high-yield issuers will be
small companies, so the impact on the whole market will be small,
but psychologically it can impact the  market sentiment  because
it’s never happened before.”  Although foreign banks, through joint ventures, can trade
in bonds and underwrite them on the CSRC-regulated bond market
via the two stock exchanges in Shanghai and Shenzhen, they
mostly remain shut out of underwriting on the  interbank market ,
which is 20 times larger and closed to individual investors.  Only HSBC  Only HSBC Holdings Plc has won approval to underwrite non-
financial debt on the interbank bond market, and has yet to lead
manage any sales. The London-based bank is the top underwriter
in  Hong Kong  of so-called Dim Sum bonds, denominated in China’s
currency and sold offshore, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. HSBC declined to comment on Guo’s reforms or
potential for expansion for foreigners.  “It’s awfully hard to see a foreign bank getting in, in a
big way, in the early stages because the large local
institutions are going to have to dominate to ensure that it
works,” said Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. “A Chinese corporate would feel they have
a better chance of success with a big local institution. That’s
the law of the jungle.”  Foreign Underwriting  Foreign banks do stand to profit from the expansion of the
domestic bond market as more Chinese companies are also allowed
to sell Dim Sum bonds in Hong Kong. In addition to HSBC,
Standard Chartered Plc, also London-based, along with BNP
Paribas SA of  France  and Deutsche Bank AG of  Germany  have been
the top underwriters of 227 billion yuan worth of debt since
Baosteel Group Corp. became the first mainland non-financial
company to sell yuan bonds in Hong Kong in November. Another
four offerings are in the pipeline after being approved by the
NDRC in April.  “European banks in China welcome the efforts made so far
by the regulators to establish a strong liquid domestic bond
market,” Dirk Moens, secretary general of the European Union
Chamber of Commerce in China, said in a statement that urged
China to “clarify the approval process and grant faster access
to those qualified banks.”  Guo, a visiting scholar at Oxford University in 1986-87 who
makes speeches in fluent English, has been pushing open China’s
capital markets to foreign investors, an effort that had
languished under his predecessor.  Market Priming  In April, the CSRC announced an almost tripling of the
amounts allowed for U.S-dollar and yuan-qualified foreign
institutional investors seeking access to China’s otherwise-
closed markets. That money can be used to buy bonds sold through
the stock exchanges. As of the latest figures available in March,
14 percent of the foreign investment had funneled to debt.  “He has done a lot for the first several months since he
took over this position,” said Zhiming Zhang, Hong Kong-based
head of China research at HSBC. “He’s rolling out a lot
initiatives, but it’s all strictly within the CSRC.”  For years China’s bond market has meant shuffling money
between state organs, with state-owned companies selling their
paper to state-owned banks at controlled  interest rates  and
banks holding the bonds on their books. Regulators have cornered
different segments of the market: the NDRC primarily approves
bond issuances of state-owned companies connected to local
governments and the central government; the People’s Bank of
China, or central bank, approves unlisted companies’ bonds; the
CSRC handles companies already listed on the exchanges.  Expanding Reach  Back in 2009, the central bank had begun its own plan for
small businesses to issue notes in an attempt to allow a wider
range of companies to sell debt. Today, only 17 percent of
private companies currently issue bonds rated AA- and above,
according to data from HSBC.  Guo’s junk-bond plan expands the reach. It allows small and
medium-sized companies to access funds, and investors to receive
yields as much as three times the bank-lending rate. Companies,
including unlisted ones, could also sell debt without
administrative approvals, allowing the market to decide credit
risk rather than the state.  “Commercial banks are very conservative in bond investing,
so it’s not likely they will hold a large portion of the SME
bonds,” said Wilson Li, a Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai
Junan Securities Co., naming mutual funds and insurance
companies as the potential investors. “That shifts risk away
from the banks.”  Few Tools  More than 68 percent of bond investors are banks, according
to Chinabond, the nation’s bond clearing house. Currently in
China there are few tools to hedge credit risk. Trading in new
credit-default products introduced in 2010, known as credit-risk
mitigation warrants, has never taken off.  Shandong Helon Co. (000677) , a small fiber maker in eastern China
that listed on the stock exchange, avoided default on its 400-
million-yuan bond in April, despite being technically insolvent
since September and reporting a loss of more than 1 billion yuan
last year. Its overdue loans account for 582 percent of its
assets.  Guo started early as a reformer. Born in 1956 in sparsely
populated Inner Mongolia just ahead of China’s Great Leap
Forward, Guo was dispatched to a rural work team during the
Cultural Revolution in the 1970s. He published his first article,
“Investigations on Reforming the Chinese Economy,” in 1984
while a Master’s student in Marxist and Leninist theory.  He sent the article unsolicited to the State Council’s
committee on economic reform hoping they could learn from it,
according to an introduction he wrote for a collection of essays
published in 2008.  Politician’s Manner  Having worked in a number of state institutions, including
as vice governor of landlocked Guizhou province and as a deputy
in the central bank, Guo has a politician’s manner. In his first
speech as securities regulator in November to a Caixin magazine
conference in a hotel in Beijing’s central business district, he
advocated allocating more resources to rural areas. Since then
he has continued advocating for expanding the bond market.  Li Yang , vice president of the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences , the top state-supported research body, echoed the need
in a forum in May, as cited by the official Xinhua news agency.
He warned that corporate debt has exceeded warning levels, and
companies could default on bank loans if the economy slows.  The central bank, the People’s Bank of China led by  Zhou Xiaochuan , who had headed the China Construction Bank Corp.
before Guo, manages the interbank market. Zhou led the first
meeting of the inter-ministerial coordination mechanism for
corporate bonds in April.  Fast Track  The NDRC, the country’s economic planning agency which used
to be the center of China’s Soviet-style planned economy,
approves most bonds to fund infrastructure projects. Such
borrowing was crucial for China’s 2008 stimulus and led local
governments to rack up 10.7 trillion yuan in debt, 27 percent of
China’s GDP, from banks and bond sales, according to a June 2011
audit.  The NDRC plans to allow at least 500 billion yuan in a
record for corporate-debt issuance this year, double the 2011
amount, according to a summary of a private talk by an NDRC
official viewed by Bloomberg News. It has adopted a fast-track
process for sales of public-housing debt by local governments,
an official familiar with the decision said.  China has overwhelmingly relied on state-owned bank credit
for its economic growth since reforms to the planned economy
began in 1978. The ratio of all the financing in the economy to
gross domestic product reached an all-time high of 44 percent in
the first quarter of 2011, according to HSBC.  Weaning Off  In the early 1990s,  Korea  managed to wean state-owned
borrowers off bank lending, Kim Eng Tan, a credit analyst at
Standard & Poor’s LLC said.  “They had a problem with state-owned companies financing
only from banks, but when the bond market started, all the big
companies rushed to the bond market, leaving the banks with no
customers, freeing them up to lend to small and medium-sized
companies,” he said. “If you free the largest conglomerates to
go to the bond market you solve the SME problem.”  In China’s system, that would require coordination among
regulators that have overseen separate aspects of the bond
market for more than a decade.  “When Guo stepped in he said we need more flexibility, we
need to encourage more products in this market,” Citic
Securities’ Sun said. “He’s a very capable guy. When he was in
China Construction Bank he did a good job there, but of course
at his current position a lot of politics will be involved.”  Guo’s writings have demonstrated that he’s aware of the
challenge. In his essay introduction, he noted the difficulties.  “Changing the settled mindset and behavior of those
involved in economic activity and leaders,” Guo wrote, “is not
a simple study class, where you can attend some training
sessions and finish the task.”  -- Henry Sanderson . With assistance from Dingmin Zhang in
Beijing. Editors: Sheridan Prasso, Andrew Monahan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at +852-2977-6623 or
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net 
