-- China Auto Glut Builds as Plant Shipments Outstrip Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-11T03:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/china-auto-glut-builds-as-plant-shipments-outstrip-sales.html
Carmakers are giving Chinese dealers
no relief in their effort to reduce a glut of unsold automobiles
in a slowing economy, as factories pump passenger vehicles into
showrooms faster than distributors can sell them.  Wholesale  deliveries , including multipurpose and sport-
utility vehicles, climbed 23 percent from a year earlier to 1.28
million units in May, the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said June 9 in Beijing. That beat the 1.2 million
average estimate of seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey, the
third straight month shipments exceeded forecasts.  The surge, led by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  as
they recover from last year’s natural disasters, may raise
pressure on distributors to deepen discounts and sell cars at a
loss to meet mandatory targets set by automakers. Factory
managers may have to slow production unless the discounts and
potential government policies to encourage sales ease the glut.  “If there’s a bottleneck out the retail channel, obviously
that at some point comes back and you have to cut production,”
said  Kevin Tynan , an automotive analyst at Bloomberg Industries.
“Something has to give. Either you’re going to incentivize the
consumer to buy, whether that’s the government or the
manufacturers, or you’re going to have to pull back on
production somewhere, and it doesn’t sound like the
manufacturers are in a big hurry to do that.”  The carmakers and state-backed CAAM say they’re confident
demand is picking up. Automakers such as General Motors Co. only
disclose the number of vehicles sold to Chinese dealers --
instead of consumers. Most carmakers use sales to dealerships to
calculate revenue, according to Gao Song, an analyst with  Citic
Securities Co. (6030)  in Beijing.  ‘More Stable’  “There are clear signs indicating the industry is becoming
more stable,” Deputy Secretary General Yao Jie said in Beijing.
“For the first time this year, accumulative sales and
production have exceeded that of a year earlier.”  For the first five months, passenger-vehicle sales
increased 5.5 percent to 6.33 million units, according to CAAM.  Sport-utility vehicles registered the biggest wholesale
delivery growth by category, rising 58 percent to 162,600 units
in May as sedan sales rose 20 percent, according to CAAM.
Minivans, which are used as passenger and commercial vehicles,
rose 16 percent to 185,700 units, the association said.  Toyota’s China sales in May more than doubled to 78,700
units. Honda reported a 92 percent surge and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s
sales increased 20 percent. Last year, production at the
Japanese automakers was hurt by the earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan  and floods in  Thailand .  May Recovery  “Last May was pretty bad in terms of the passenger-car
sales tally,”  Harry Chen , a Shenzhen-based analyst with Guotai
Junan Securities Co., said before the release.  GM (GM) , the world’s biggest automaker, said June 5 that vehicle
sales in China rose 21 percent in May, led by demand for its
Wuling minivan and Chevrolet models.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  saw its
passenger-vehicle deliveries gain 23 percent.  “We expect sales growth to remain strong in June,”  UBS AG (UBSN) 
analysts Hou Yankun, Xu Ming and Zou Tianlong, wrote in a note
on June 6. Government stimulus policies “could boost consumer
sentiment in the short term,” they wrote.  Karen Hampton, a Ford spokeswoman in Dearborn,  Michigan ,
yesterday deferred market-specific questions to representatives
in  Asia .  Kevin Wale , head of GM’s China operations, said in a May 31
interview that he’s “pretty optimistic” Chinese consumers
return to dealerships. “I can’t see anything in the Chinese
environment that’s leading to an unusual decline in  consumer
confidence ,” he said.  Inventories Rise  Dealers aren’t as optimistic. Average inventory carried at
Chinese showrooms bloated to a level exceeding two months of
sales by the end of May, compared with more than 45 days at the
end of April, Luo Lei, deputy secretary general of the state-
backed China Automobile Dealers Association, said in an
interview last week. The glut at the dealerships, which is
leading to price cuts, is unsustainable, he said.  “The picture we have is very different from what the
automakers are painting,” Luo said. “The sales increases
they’re reporting are achieved by loading dealers with stock.”  China on June 7 announced its first  interest rate  cut since
2008 as policy makers seek to bolster growth. Economic data over
the weekend may add pressure on the government to introduce such
buying incentives. Chinese consumer prices in May rose the least
in two years, while industrial output and retail sales trailed
economists’ estimates, according to data released by the
Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics on June 9.  Car Incentives  China ’s cabinet agreed last month to revive financial
incentives for consumers to trade in their cars to help increase
demand, a government official said last month. Separately, the
 finance ministry  said on May 29 that the government will spend
as much as 2 billion  yuan  a year to develop alternative-energy
vehicles to reduce fuel consumption.  CAAM deputy secretary general Dong Yang said at the
briefing he was unaware of stimulus policies for the automotive
industry “anytime soon.”  One of the first steps may come as a government program to
encourage sales of smaller, fuel-efficient cars, Tynan at
Bloomberg Industries said.  “You will get some clear signals, some yellow lights,
before you get to production cuts,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  