-- Citadel, CQS Hire Asia Managers as Small Hedge Funds Buckle
-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-06-12T04:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/citadel-cqs-hire-back-asia-managers-as-small-hedge-funds-buckle.html
Citadel LLC and CQS (U.K.) LLP are
among global  hedge funds  providing refuge to managers in Asia as
smaller firms struggle to raise money.  Agus Tandiono returned to  Citadel , the $13 billion firm run
by  Kenneth Griffin , in January following the closure of a fund
he managed, said a person with knowledge of the move. Sanjiv Bhatia joined CQS, which oversees $11.6 billion, after winding
down his Hong Kong-based fund in December.  Asia-focused managers have struggled to gather capital as
market volatility increased and clients became more selective
following the global financial crisis and the Bernard Madoff
scandal. Investors directed almost 80 percent of new capital to
hedge funds overseeing more than $5 billion in the 15 months to
March, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc.  “Unless you get to $100 million pretty early on, it’s very
hard now to survive,” said Richard Johnston, Hong Kong-based
 Asia  head of Albourne Partners Ltd., which advises investors on
hedge funds and other alternative investments. “You’re better
off working at a big multistrategy fund or platform manager.”  Of 308 Asian hedge funds started since 2009, 74 percent
have failed to boost assets “significantly,” according to
 Eurekahedge Pte.  Of those funds, 51 have been liquidated,
according to the Singapore-based research firm, which tracks
1,314 hedge funds that focus on the region or are based in Asia
and have a combined $128 billion in assets.  Rising Competition  Competition for capital intensified in Asia as more hedge
funds were set up to take advantage of the world’s fastest
growing economies. Potential clients have held back after funds
suffered two of their worst years in the past four years amid
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, concerns that the U.S. economic
recovery is faltering and a slowdown in  China .  “There is no doubt that the break-even level for funds has
risen and startups need to manage their cash flows carefully
whilst proving to potential investors that they have enough of
an institutional infrastructure,” said Mark Wightman, global
head of alternatives strategy at SunGard, a provider of trading
systems for financial firms, in  Singapore .  Direct allocations from institutions such as pensions and
endowments now account for a larger share of the inflows into
hedge funds, and they tend to prefer bigger and more established
managers, said Max Gottschalk, co-founder of Gottex Fund
Management Holdings Ltd. in  Hong Kong , which allocates $7.6
billion to hedge funds.  Managers are further pressed to build and maintain large
investment and operational teams, and systems to meet the more
stringent demands of institutional investors, he said.  An estimated 775 hedge funds globally closed down last year,
4 percent more than in 2010, as institutional investors directed
most of the new capital toward the largest managers, according
to Chicago-based HFR data.  Difficult Environment  Tandiono started the first equity fund for Income Partners
Asset Management Ltd. in July 2009, as the manager of debt and
macro funds attempted to widen its offerings. The $25 million
fund closed mid-2011 because “it was very difficult to raise
money,” said Francis Tjia, a managing partner at the Hong Kong-
based company, which has $1 billion in assets.  Tandiono, 40, first joined Citadel in early 2006 as an
analyst and became the head of Asia equities later that year. He
left in 2008 when the Chicago-based hedge fund reorganized in
the region. Devon Spurgeon, a spokeswoman at Citadel, declined
to comment. The person familiar with Tandiono’s hiring asked not
to be identified because the information is private.  Large Managers  Bhatia, a former trader and risk manager at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  in  London  and Hong Kong, left Minneapolis-based
Deephaven Capital Management LLC in July 2008 to start Isometric
Investment Advisors Ltd. Bhatia, 41, said he closed the hedge
fund in December after FRM Capital Advisors Ltd. in London,
which accounted for about 80 percent of his fund’s assets,
decided to invest its money elsewhere.  Investors added $18.3 billion of new capital to managers
with at least $5 billion of assets in the first quarter, data
from HFR show. Smaller managers with assets below that threshold
suffered a combined outflow of almost $2 billion.  About 62 percent of the Asia hedge funds tracked by
Eurekahedge oversee $50 million or less.  Still, some managers will seek to capitalize on reputations
they built at global firms or within investment banks to
establish their own funds, said Graham Seaton, Hong Kong-based
Asia-Pacific head of prime brokerage at Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch & Co. unit.  “They may feel more able to generate alpha with smaller
assets under management and more nimble strategy,” he said,
referring to the excess return funds earn over performance
benchmarks such as a  stock index . “The other attraction is to
have their own names on the door.”  Taconic Capital  Other managers seeking sanctuary at big firms include
Anthony Correa, who in April 2011 closed Black’s Link Capital
Ltd., the Hong Kong-based fund he co-founded. Correa is now
heading the Asian operations at Taconic Capital Advisors LP, a
New York-based hedge fund with $7.8 billion in assets, said a
person with knowledge of his position, who declined to be
identified because the information is private. Prior to setting
up Black’s Link, Correa was the Hong Kong office head of London-
based Polygon Investment Partners LLP. Correa didn’t answer an
e-mail seeking comment.  Hani Abuali in November joined Mount Kellett Capital
Management LLC as a Hong Kong-based managing director focused on
its Asian equity hedge fund, said Jon Fiorello, New York-based
chief operating officer of the $7 billion asset manager set up
by two former Goldman Sachs executives. Abuali was a Polygon
colleague of Correa’s who co-founded Black’s Link, which oversaw
about $90 million.  Kingdon Capital  Justin Pollock, 36, who once managed money for Galleon
Group LLC, took a job as a New York-based  fund manager  focused
on Asia at Kingdon Capital Management LLC, which oversees $2.7
billion, in June 2011, said a person with knowledge of the
hiring, who declined to be identified as the information hasn’t
been made public. The fund he oversaw for Singapore-based
CastleBay Capital Management Pte was liquidated in May last year
after failing to attract enough capital.  Patrick Clifford , a New
York-based outside spokesman for Kingdon, declined to comment.  Elsewhere, Masaki Taniguchi, a former  Sparx Group Co. (8739) 
executive who headed the Japanese manager’s Asia business in
Hong Kong, rejoined Goldman Sachs’s asset management business in
the city as Asia-Pacific head of product development in May.  Ashutosh Sinha, 45, returned to  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s asset-
management unit as a managing director and senior fund manager
in February 2011 after Amoeba Capital Partners Pte, the
Singapore-based hedge fund he set up with his brother, returned
investor money in its stock hedge fund in 2010, citing “tough”
industry conditions. Taniguchi, 40, and Sinha’s departures were
previously disclosed in company memos.  “The barrier of entry has become higher,” said Gottex’s
Gottschalk. “With increased regulation and greater investor
needs, it has become a lot more expensive to set up a hedge fund.
The difficult fundraising environment has made it even harder.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  