-- Clemens Defense Rests Case in Ex-Pitcher’s Perjury Trial
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-11T16:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/clemens-defense-rests-case-in-ex-pitcher-s-perjury-trial.html
Lawyers for  Roger Clemens  rested
their defense of the former  New York  Yankees pitcher in his
trial on charges that he lied to Congress when he denied using
performance enhancing drugs.  Clemens’s lawyers, who called 23 witnesses during the trial
in Washington, ended today with Jerry Laveroni, former head of
player security for the Yankees. Just before resting, Clemens’s
attorney read a “stipulation” that he was tested for steroids
by Major League Baseball from 2003 through 2007 and never found
positive. The document noted MLB didn’t test for human growth
hormone at the time.  Laveroni said Clemens’s chief accuser,  Brian McNamee , has
“zero” credibility.  “I don’t think he could be believed under oath,” Laveroni
said in a response to a question from  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for
Clemens.  After the jury was sent out of the room for a break, U.S.
District Judge  Reggie Walton  called Clemens to the lawyer’s
lectern and asked him whether he had talked to his attorneys
about his right to testify in his own defense.  “Yes sir, I am not testifying,” Clemens said. It was the
first time he had spoken during the trial, now in its ninth
week.  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner as the best
pitcher in his league, is charged with one count of obstructing
a congressional investigation into the use of performance-
enhancing drugs by professional athletes.  He’s also charged with three counts of making false
statements and of perjury stemming from his testimony to a House
panel. If convicted, he faces as long as 21 months in prison.  Prosecutors said they will put on a rebuttal case.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story: Tom Schoenberg in
Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Hytha
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  