-- Clemens Prosecutors Revisit DNA Evidence as Trial Ends
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/clemens-prosecutors-revisit-dna-evidence-as-testimony-ends-1-.html
U.S. prosecutors sought to bolster
the credibility of their DNA and drug use evidence against
 Roger Clemens , the former  New York  Yankees pitcher, as testimony
in his perjury trial ended in Washington.  The government, which yesterday finished presenting its
case against Clemens, put on three witnesses to rebut defense
allegations that the evidence linking Clemens to a needle and
cotton balls containing anabolic steroids was contaminated or
faked. Clemens is accused of lying to Congress by denying that
he used steroids and human growth hormone.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  scheduled closing
arguments for today, and the jury may begin deliberations in the
afternoon.  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner as the best
pitcher in his league, is charged with one count of obstructing
a congressional investigation into the use of performance-
enhancing drugs by professional athletes.  He’s also charged with three counts of making false
statements and of perjury stemming from his testimony to a House
panel. If convicted, he faces as long as 21 months in prison.  Needle, Cotton  The prosecution’s evidence includes a needle and cotton
with Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for steroids. The
material was given to prosecutors by Brian McNamee, Clemens’s
former trainer. McNamee, who spent six days testifying, told
jurors that he gave the ballplayer injections of steroids and
HGH during the 1998, 2000 and 2001 baseball seasons while both
men worked for the  Toronto Blue Jays  and the Yankees.  McNamee told jurors he saved needles, gauze and vials from
one of the injections in 2001 and kept some of the items in a
Miller Lite beer can that he took from the recycling bin in
Clemens’s apartment. He testified he showed the material to his
wife the night he brought it to their New York home and kept it
in a FedEx box.  Walton, for a second time, denied a defense motion to
dismiss the case. He did say he’s considering whether to throw
out one charge amid the 13 false or misleading statements he’s
accused of that has to do with Clemens’s denial that he attended
a pool party at the home of fellow Blue Jays teammate  Jose
Canseco  in 1998.  Prosecutors, as part of their rebuttal case, called back to
the stand two of their earlier witnesses. Cynthia Morris-
Kukoski, a toxicologist with the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation, testified that she doesn’t consider the history
of items that come into her laboratory for analysis. She also
said that her lab will test items that have been “co-mingled”
with other items.  Too Compromised  A defense toxicology expert, Bruce Goldberger, testified
earlier that the material given to the government by McNamee was
too compromised in the way it was handled and stored to be
tested accurately.  “It’s not the scientist’s job to weigh the evidence,” she
said. “We’re just one small piece of the puzzle. It’s up to
judge, the lawyers and jury to put all those pieces together.”  Edward Blake, a DNA expert who worked on the report to the
government on tests linking Clemens’s DNA to the medical waste,
testified that the amount of biological material found on the
needle was too small to have been planted there intentionally.  He also tried to challenge assertions from an earlier
defense expert, Marc Taylor, president of Technical Associates
Inc., that McNamee’s DNA couldn’t be ruled out as being on the
needle.  Biological Material  Under cross examination, Blake was pressed by Clemens’s
lawyer, Michael Attanasio, as to why his report didn’t
specifically note that McNamee couldn’t be the source of the
biological material found on the needle.  “There’s no mystery here, counsel, you’re trying to
confuse this jury and you’re trying to confuse me,” Blake said.  The government’s final witness was John Longmire, the lead
FBI agent on the case. He was asked about the government’s
interviews with Eileen McNamee, the estranged wife of  Brian
McNamee  who last week contradicted her husband’s testimony.  Longmire, who was called earlier by both the government and
the defense, suggested that on the second occasion she met with
investigators, Eileen McNamee changed her story about seeing a
FedEx box in her home that allegedly contained the medical waste
of Clemens and other ballplayers. The McNamees are involved in
divorce proceedings in New York.  Earlier yesterday, Clemens’s lawyers, who called 23
witnesses during the trial, ended their defense with Jerry
Laveroni, former head of player security for the Yankees.  ‘Zero’ Credibility  Laveroni said McNamee has “zero” credibility.  “I don’t think he could be believed under oath,” Laveroni
said in a response to a question from  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for
Clemens.  Just before resting, Clemens’s attorney read a
“stipulation” that the then-pitcher was tested for steroids by
 Major League Baseball  from 2003 through 2007 and never found
positive. The document noted that MLB didn’t test for human
growth hormone at the time.  After the jury was sent out of the room, Walton called
Clemens to the lawyer’s lectern and asked him whether he had
talked to his attorneys about his right to testify in his own
defense.  “Yes sir, I am not testifying,” Clemens said. It was the
first time he had spoken during the trial, now in its ninth
week.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  