-- Coal Magnate Tinkler Moves From Australia to Singapore
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-06-11T02:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/coal-magnate-tinkler-moves-from-australia-to-singapore.html
Nathan Tinkler , the Australian
entrepreneur who last year helped orchestrate the sale of his
mining assets for about A$2.6 billion ($2.6 billion) in stock,
has moved his primary residence to  Singapore .  The move will help relationships between 36-year-old
Tinkler, the largest shareholder in Whitehaven Coal Ltd., and
customers and investors in  Asia , Tim Allerton, an external
spokesman at City Public Relations in Sydney, said by phone.  “His investors, financiers and customers are all up in
Asia and he feels the need to be closer to them,” Allerton
said. The main office of his Tinkler Group would remain in
Brisbane, and Allerton said he “wouldn’t have a clue” whether
tax considerations played a part in the decision.  Eduardo Saverin, the co-founder of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , renounced
his U.S. citizenship ahead of the company’s initial stock sale
last month with the same justification of staying close to Asian
markets. The move will save Saverin at least $67 million in U.S.
 capital gains  taxes, according to an analysis by Bloomberg News.  Singapore doesn’t impose a tax on  capital gains  from asset
sales and its top rate of  income tax  is 20 percent. In
 Australia , the top rate of  income tax  is 45 percent and capital
gains are taxed as  part of income .  Tinkler, a former electrician, made the decision a couple
of months ago, Allerton said. He will spend about half his time
overseas and his family will move to Singapore as well, he said.
The relocation was reported in the Sydney Morning Herald June 9.  Coal Deals  Tinkler sold his house in 2006 to buy the A$30 million
lease on the Middlemount coal mine in Queensland state before
selling it to Macarthur Coal Ltd. for about A$465 million in
cash and shares a year later.  He reaped a profit of about A$445 million selling his stake
in Macarthur to the world’s largest steelmaker, ArcelorMittal,
and in August 2010 bought the Maules Creek mine from Rio Tinto
Group for A$480 million.  That formed the basis of his listed Aston Resources Ltd.
vehicle, which was sold to  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC)  last December
for A$2.6 billion in stock.  Tinkler and his companies also own coal and metals mining
projects, infrastructure investments, a horse-breeding
operation, and the Newcastle Knights, a rugby league team in the
Australian coal port of Newcastle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Murray at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net  