-- Coface’s Profitability May Fall in 2012 on Crisis-Related Claims
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-06-11T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/coface-s-profitability-may-fall-in-2012-on-crisis-related-claims.html
Coface SA, the credit-insurance unit
of French lender  Natixis (KN) , said it may post lower profit margins
from underwriting as  Europe ’s debt crisis fuels higher claims.  Coface’s net combined ratio, a measure of how much is spent
on claims and expenses as a percentage of property and casualty
premiums, was 82.2 percent at the end of 2011, down from 84.9
percent a year earlier, according to the Paris-based company’s
financial reports. A ratio above 100 means an  underwriting
loss.  “We expect our net combined ratio to remain stable in
2012, it may have an increase of one or two percentage points,”
Jean-Marc Pillu, the unit’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview in Sao Paulo. “As 2012 is less good than 2011, it’s
logical we’ll see a marginal increase of our net ratio.”  Europe’s debt crisis prompted trade-credit insurers to
reduce coverage.  Euler Hermes SA (ELE) , the biggest in the industry,
said May 26 it was reviewing coverage of exports to  Greece 
because of the risk the country will exit the euro. Atradius NV,
the second-biggest, stopped covering new shipments of goods to
Greece on June 1.  Coface has been more cautious on insuring some Spanish
industries, including construction, textiles and distribution,
Pillu said. The firm has also starting reducing coverage in
Portugal, Italy and  France , he said.  The company has been “progressively” reducing its
position in Greece since the beginning of the second quarter of
2011, according to Pillu. Coface expects Greece’s gross domestic
product to fall 6 percent this year and estimates the risk at
more than 50 percent that the country will drop the euro, he
said.  Coface is doing business in Greece only with big
international companies and some of the healthier Greek
exporters, according to Pillu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  