-- Commercial Mortgage Repeat Defaults Poised to Increase, RBS Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-06-11T18:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/commercial-mortgage-repeat-defaults-poised-to-increase-rbs-says.html
Commercial mortgage defaults are
poised to keep rising as loan modifications fail to prevent
borrowers from running into trouble again amid collapsed real-
estate values, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “The re-default rate is going to be significantly higher
than many market participants think,”  Richard Hill , a debt
strategist at the bank, said in an interview today at the
Commercial Real Estate Finance Council’s convention in
 Washington . “For some of these loans that were modified in the
past three years, the rubber is finally meeting the road.”  Borrowers are struggling to pay off debt with property
prices down 34.5 percent from 2007 peaks and U.S. economic
growth stalling. More than $30 billion of loans on everything
from skyscrapers to strip malls are being handled by a so-called
special servicer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
companies negotiate with delinquent landlords on behalf of
bondholders and decide whether to modify a loan or foreclose.  The delinquency rate on commercial mortgages bundled into
bonds rose to a record 10.5 percent in May, in part because of a
missed payment on a $297 million loan tied to apartment
complexes in Texas and  Maryland , according to RBS.  The debt was modified in January 2010 after Standard
Portfolios Asset Management Co. bought the buildings out of
bankruptcy, according to RBS. The maturity date was pushed out
five years to 2016, and the  interest rate  was cut from 6.068
percent to 3.78 percent, with increases in the rate over six
years. The borrower has submitted a proposal for another
modification, RBS said.  Overleveraged Properties  “Special servicers are going to have to carefully consider
negotiating with a borrower a second time around,” Hill said.
“These properties were overleveraged and not performing nearly
as well as anticipated. A modification is not going to change
the performance” in many instances, he said.  About $48 billion in commercial mortgages packaged into
bonds have been modified since 2008, RBS data show. The lender
estimates as much as 50 percent of those loans will default
again.  More than 9 percent of these mortgages are already behind
on payments, Citigroup Inc. analysts said in a June 1 report.
Re-defaults may rise as extended mortgages reach their new
maturity dates, with $6.9 billion of the debt coming due through
2013, according to the New York-based analysts led by Jeffrey Berenbaum.  U.S. commercial-property price gains slowed in the past
three months as concern over  Europe ’s debt crisis reduced
available financing for real-estate transactions, according to a
May 24 report from Moody’s Investors Service. Valuations are
34.5 percent below the 2007 peak, CoStar Group Inc. said in a
note this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  