-- Chris Christie Loses Appeal of Housing Agency Dispute
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-06-11T18:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/court-affirms-christie-lacked-power-to-abolish-housing-agency.html
The New Jersey  Supreme Court  refused
to block a decision that New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
didn’t have the right to use a reorganization plan to abolish a
housing agency created by the state Legislature.  The Appellate Division had ruled March 8 that Christie
exceeded his authority by reorganizing to eliminate the Council
on Affordable Housing and transferring its duties to the
commissioner of the Department of Community Affairs. In a one-
sentence order, the Supreme Court denied his request to block
that ruling.  “This matter having been duly presented to the court, it
is ordered that the motion of the Department of Community
Affairs for stay is denied,” according to an order witnessed by
Chief Justice Stuart Rabner that was filed June 8 in Trenton,
the state capital.  In denying Christie, the appellate division ruled that the
Legislature had the power to create, abolish and alter agencies.
Christie had argued that he has the power to get rid of an
independent agency created by the Legislature as long as it was
“in but not of” a department in the state’s executive branch.  Reorganization Plan  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman, said today that the
governor submitted a reorganization plan to the Legislature in
June 2011. Lawmakers chose not to invalidate the plan within 60
days, as was their right, allowing it to move forward, Drewniak
said in an e-mailed statement.  “That distinction refutes the narrative of unilateral
action by the executive branch,” Drewniak said. “It is well
known that there are many on both sides of the aisle in the
Legislature who agree that COAH has been bad for New Jersey with
all its onerous and ineffective demands on municipalities.”  He said the state Senate supported legislation that would
eliminate COAH.  “Now that the Supreme Court has turned down the governor’s
request for a stay, our communities should be able to get back
to creating the homes our residents want,” said Staci Berger,
director of policy and advocacy at the Housing and Community
Development Network of New Jersey, in a statement.  Christie created a  task force  in January 2010 to review the
housing agency. In its June 2011 reorganization plan, the state
said the transfer of the council’s duties would cut costs and
“reduce the unnecessary complexity of affordable housing
administration in New Jersey,” according to court papers.  The council was created under the state’s 1985 Fair Housing
Act, which required municipalities to provide for the
development of affordable housing. The state Legislature set the
council, which helped develop and implement affordable housing
policies, at 12 members and said no more than six could be of
the same political party.  The case is In re Plan for the Abolition of the Council on
Affordable Housing, A-6301-10T4, Superior Court of  New Jersey ,
Appellate Division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  