-- Cove Announces Further Natural Gas Find Off Mozambique Coast
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-06-11T16:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/cove-energy-announces-another-natural-gas-find-off-mozambique.html
Cove Energy Plc (COV) , the U.K. explorer
that agreed to be bought by Thailand’s PTT Exploration and
Production Pcl, said drilling at the Rovuma Area 1 exploration
block off the coast of Mozambique led to more gas discoveries.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ’s Atum well discovered gas in two
“high quality” fans connected to the Golfinho Oligocene find,
London-based Cove said in a statement today. The well is at the
northern part of the Rovuma block.  That takes total discoveries in the block to 30 trillion to
60 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas resources or three to
six times the U.K.’s reserves. Cove’s 8.5 percent holding in
Rovuma, its largest asset, attracted competing bids from Shell
and  Thailand ’s PTT Exploration and Production. PTT’s offer of
240 pence ($3.73) a share was approved by Mozambique in May.  Cove advanced 1.9 percent to 267 pence by the close of
London trading on speculation a new bid may trump PTT.  “The combination of the discovery being located entirely
within Area 1 Rovuma Offshore block and its proximity to planned
shore-based infrastructure provide significant commercial
advantages to our partnership,” Cove Energy Chief Executive
Officer John Craven said in the statement.  Twelve wells have been drilled in the Rovuma block, Cove
said. Total upside for gas in place in the discovered reservoirs
is approaching 100 trillion cubic feet.  The discoveries open the way for  Mozambique  to become an
exporter of liquefied natural gas, shipping fuel to Asian
economies including India and China. For state-controlled PTT,
the purchase of Cove offers Thailand a secure source of gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  