-- Craig Sued for Using Campaign Funds in Sex Sting Case
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-06-11T22:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/craig-sued-for-using-campaign-funds-in-sex-sting-case.html
Former U.S. Senator Larry Craig, an
Idaho Republican, was sued by the  Federal Election Commission 
over allegedly misusing more than $200,000 in campaign funds to
pay for his personal legal defense.  Craig used the money in connection with his arrest, guilty
plea and subsequent efforts to withdraw that plea in Minnesota
in 2007, the commission said in a lawsuit filed today in federal
court in Washington.  Craig was arrested in a bathroom at Minneapolis-St. Paul
International Airport June 11, 2007, by an undercover policeman.
He denied soliciting sex in the restroom, said he had done
nothing wrong and that he wasn’t a homosexual.  Craig hired Washington-based Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan
to serve as lead counsel in an effort to withdraw his guilty
plea and Kelly & Jacobson, a  Minnesota  firm. He also retained a
media relations firm to handle press inquiries about the
incident, according to the court filing. The Craig for  U.S.
Senate  Committee paid Sutherland, Asbill at least $139,952 for
legal services on Craig’s behalf, while Kelly & Jacobson
received about $77,032, the commission said in the filing.  “These disbursements converted the Craig committee’s funds
to personal use because they were not expenditures made in
connection with Mr. Craig’s campaign for federal office and were
not ordinary and necessary expenses incurred in connection with
his duties as a senator,” the commission said in the filing.  The commission asked the court to make Craig pay back the
money he spent on his personal legal defense and to levy civil
penalties against Craig and his campaign treasurer of no more
than $6,500.  A phone call to Craig’s  Washington  consulting firm, New
West Strategies LLC, seeking comment on the lawsuit wasn’t
immediately returned. Felice Wagner, a spokeswoman for
Sutherland, Asbill, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and
voice message.  The case is Federal Election Commission v. Craig for U.S.
Senate, 1:12-cv-00958, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 