-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as Investors Consider Spanish Bailout
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-06-11T20:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-after-reevaluation-of-spanish-bailout.html
An index of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose as statements about  Spain ’s bailout fueled concern
that private investors would be subordinated to official lenders
to the country and its banks.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 4.1
basis points to a mid-price of 124.7 basis points at 4:34 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the biggest jump since the measure climbed 5.6 basis points on
May 30.  Spain asked euro-region governments for as much as 100
billion euros ($125 billion) to help shore up its banking
system. Statements from German and Finnish leaders, suggesting
the use of the permanent European Stability Mechanism for the
funds, led to a change in  market sentiment , as the swaps gauge
reversed a drop of as much as 1.5 basis points early in the day.  “What everyone thought the Spanish loan was and what it
turned out to be are two different things,” said Mark J. Grant,
managing director at Southwest Securities Inc. in  Fort
Lauderdale ,  Florida . “People are not happy about that, and the
change in the gauges reflects that aggravation.”  The ESM, which gives official creditors seniority over
existing bondholders, will probably be the source of the funds,
Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said in an interview
today. The German  finance ministry  also said the bailout program
should draw from the ESM, which is scheduled to be set up next
month.  “If you own Spanish sovereign debt, or any of the banks’
senior debt, you are going to be subordinated, and bondholders
are not going to be happy about that,” Grant said.  ‘Not Undermine’  Spain said earlier that the European bailout of its banks
won’t undermine the conditions of its outstanding debt.  “This financial assistance will not only not undermine the
present conditions of the current stock of Spanish public debt:
it will also reinforce its overall solvency,” the Economy
Ministry in  Madrid  said in a  statement  today.  The swaps gauge typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  