-- Dental Study Ties Plaque to Premature Cancer Death Risk
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-06-11T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/dental-study-ties-plaque-to-premature-cancer-death-risk.html
Persistent dental plaque may
increase the risk of dying early from cancer, according to
authors of a study published in the journal  BMJ Open .  Dental-plaque levels were higher in the 35 people who died
from cancer than in the rest of the 1,400 study participants
tracked over 24 years in  Sweden . Demographic data showed the
women should have lived 13 more years and the men an extra 8.5
years, so the deaths would be considered premature, said the
authors, led by Birgitta Soeder, professor emerita of preventive
dentistry at the  Karolinska Institute  in  Stockholm .  Dental plaque is made up of bacteria covering the surfaces
of the teeth and may lead to tooth decay and gum inflammation.
The researchers, who said the study only found an observed
association between dental plaque and cancer, said toxins from
plaque may enter the blood to spread to different parts of the
body “with potential systemic consequences.”  “The high bacterial load on tooth surfaces and in gingival
pockets over a prolonged period of time may indeed play a role
in carcinogenesis,” the authors said in the published paper.
“Further studies are definitely required, however, to determine
whether there is any causal element in the observed association
reported here.”  Earlier studies have suggested people with severe
 periodontal disease  may be at increased risk for developing
diabetes, and infections around the teeth may be a signal of
 heart disease . Statistical analysis of the research in Sweden
made adjustments for some potential risk factors associated with
premature death, such as education, smoking, frequency of dental
visits and income level.  Still, “this association may not be causal,” Paul
Pharoah, lecturer in cancer epidemiology at the University of
Cambridge in  England , said in an e-mailed statement. “Although
some factors were controlled for, there are very likely to be
other factors, such as diet and obesity, that would be
associated with both plaque and mortality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  