-- Derivatives Signal Lower Money-Market Stress After Spain Bailout
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-11T13:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/derivatives-signal-lower-money-market-stress-after-spain-bailout.html
Forward markets signaled reduced
stress in the money markets as traders lowered bets for the gap
between the London interbank offered rate and federal funds for
the months ahead as  Spain ’s 100 billion euro ($126 billion) may
shore up the nation’s banking system.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, a gauge of
banks’ reluctance to lend, retreated to 35.8 basis points from
36.2 basis points on June 8, according to the second rolling
three month so-called FRA/OIS spread.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.46785 percent, where it has held since June
1, according to the British Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS
spread, a gauge of banks reluctance to lend, was little changed
at 30.6 basis points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened 0.31 basis point to 30.75 basis points. The gap
is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in
many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market increased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 52 basis points below Euribor, compared with
51.75 basis points below on June 8.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, narrowed.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 39
basis points from 40 basis points.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
fell $14.7 billion to $1.014 trillion in the week ended June 6,
according to Federal Reserve data  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 36.6 basis points, from minus
37.5 basis points on June 8. A negative swap price indicates
investors are willing to receive reduced interest payments on
the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed financing in
dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  