-- Diamond Foods Falls After Missing Deadline: San Francisco
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-06-11T16:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/diamond-foods-says-it-will-miss-deadline-for-results.html
Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND) , the maker of
Kettle Chips and Emerald snack nuts, fell to a three-year low
after saying it won’t file its quarterly results on time to meet
an extension granted by the  Nasdaq  Stock Market.  The shares sank 6.6 percent to $18.84 at 11:49 a.m. in New
York after declining to $18.55, the lowest intraday level since
January 2009. Before today, the stock had dropped 45 percent
since early February, when it said it had reported costs in the
wrong quarters and needed to restate earnings.  Diamond Foods hasn’t yet filed its 10-Q reports for the
quarters ended Oct. 31 and Jan. 31, and will also miss the
deadline for the quarter ended April 30, according to a filing
today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The San Francisco-based company has been working to
strengthen its balance sheet and get the business back on track
since February. By missing today’s deadline, Diamond has left
shareholders questioning what its true financial condition is.  “Investors are wondering why it has taken so long to
restate earnings,” Thilo Wrede, an analyst with Jefferies & Co.
in  New York  who recommends holding the stock, said in a phone
interview. “It disappoints the expectations of a lot of
investors. It raises concerns that something else is wrong at
Diamond.”  The company said in the filing today it expects the Nasdaq
will consider delisting its stock.  Diamond has been trying to get its financial reporting in
order, restore the faith of investors and get walnut farmers in
 California  to supply it with nuts for its snack business. Last
month, Diamond hired a new chief executive officer, former
Hostess Brands Inc. CEO Brian Driscoll.  Oaktree Management  On May 23, Diamond secured $225 million in investment from
Oaktree Capital Management in exchange for senior secured notes
and warrants that are convertible to stock.  Oaktree’s notes will pay 12 percent interest a year, and
the warrants are convertible at $10 a share, Diamond said in a
May filing with the SEC.  Part of the investment also provides that if Diamond
secures a specified quantity of walnuts from suppliers and meets
certain profit targets during the six months ending Jan. 31, the
warrants will be canceled and Oaktree will get $75 million in
convertible preferred stock that pays a dividend of 10 percent a
year and has an initial conversion price of $20.75 a share.  In February,  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  terminated a deal to sell
its Pringles unit to Diamond; instead  Kellogg Co. (K)  acquired the
potato chip business for $2.7 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  