-- Dish Enlists Qualcomm to Build Chipset for Wireless Devices
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-06-11T20:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/dish-enlists-qualcomm-to-build-chipset-for-new-wireless-devices.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-TV company, is investing in technology
for new mobile devices such as phones and tablets as it waits
for government approval to enter the wireless industry.  The company is collaborating with  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  to develop
3G-based chipsets for future Dish wireless devices that can run
in both satellite and terrestrial modes, the Englewood,
Colorado-based company said in an statement. Dish didn’t say how
much the partners were spending on the project.  Dish is seeking government approval to use satellite
spectrum to offer ground-level wireless service, putting the
company in closer competition with Comcast Corp. and  AT&T Inc. (T) 
Chairman  Charlie Ergen  said last month he expects a ruling from
the Federal Communications Commission by the end of the summer.  “With the rule-making still under way, the Qualcomm
development funding is a risk-based investment, yet it is
important for us to accelerate a long-term path to developing
both the satellite and ground-based mobile markets,” Thomas Cullen, an executive vice president at Dish, said in the
statement.  Dish could bundle mobile service with its existing
satellite-TV offerings to better compete with cable and
telecommunications companies. Ergen and Chief Executive Officer
Joseph Clayton have said they also are seeking a wireless-
industry partner with an existing network that could use Dish’s
spectrum, given FCC approval.  Dish fell 1.4 percent to $27.52 at the close in  New York .
The shares have declined 3.4 percent this year. Qualcomm, the
biggest maker of chips for mobile phones, dropped 1.7 percent to
$57.79 and has gained 5.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  