-- Disinflation Momentum Hitting U.S., Rosenberg Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-06-11T21:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/disinflation-momentum-hitting-u-s-rosenberg-says-tom-keene.html
Inflation in the U.S. will slow amid
signs of a sputtering economy in which fewer jobs are being
created and wages stagnate, said  David Rosenberg  at Gluskin
Sheff & Associates Inc.  “I do not think it will take much to tilt the economy
towards mild deflation over the course of the next several
years,” Rosenberg, Toronto-based chief economist and strategist
at Gluskin Sheff, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “Wages from the
payroll number, which I think was the most important component
of that report, again were flat. So you already are seeing the
disinflation in motion.”  The Labor Department June 1 reported U.S. employers added
69,000 jobs in May, the fewest in a year, after an increase of
77,000 the previous month. Americans’ average hourly earnings
were 1.7 percent higher than a year earlier, the smallest 12-
month gain since December 2010.  An intensifying debt crisis in  Europe  will cut global
economic expansion to 2.5 percent in 2012 from 2.9 percent last
year, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  China , the
world’s biggest consumer of raw materials, may post the slowest
growth in 13 years, a Bloomberg News survey showed last month.  “The disinflation momentum is already on track in the
 United States , and the problems in Europe -- insofar as they
mean slower global growth -- are going to accentuate the
downward trend in inflation,” Rosenberg said. “What is
happening in Europe and, of course, the spread that we are
seeing in terms of the slowdown that it has created in  Asia , is
only now starting to hit our shores.”  Growth in the U.S. is forecast at 2.2 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of 93 forecasters in a
Bloomberg monthly survey, down from the May’s estimate of 2.3
percent. Growth was 1.7 percent last year. Inflation predictions
were also revised downward in the latest survey, to 2.2 percent
from 2.3 percent the previous month. Inflation was 3.2 percent
in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in  New York  at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  