-- Philippine Stock Movers: Calata, Nickel Asia, SM Investments
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-06-11T07:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/dmci-philippine-long-distance-sm-philippine-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
had  unusual  moves in  Philippine (PASHR)  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close in Manila.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose 1.6 percent to
5,075.85, the sharpest gain since May 17. The nation’s financial
markets will be shut tomorrow for a holiday.  Boulevard Holdings Inc. (BHI)  , a resort operator,
increased 4.2 percent to 15 centavos, the sharpest gain since
April 27, snapping a five-day retreat. The company expects sales
to rebound after falling 12 percent in the fiscal year ended May
31 from a year earlier as tourist arrivals from Europe
decreased, a stock-exchange filing showed.  Calata Corp. (CAL)   advanced 6.5 percent to 13.20 pesos,
the highest close since June 4. The company said it signed an
agreement to exclusively supply National Agribusiness Corp. with
corn. The agreement will “further augment its rapidly
increasing corporate revenue stream,” the company said.  Nickel Asia Corp. (NIKL)  , the nation’s biggest producer
of the metal, increased 5.3 percent to 31.60 pesos, the sharpest
gain since April 25. The company said its shareholders approved
a 50 percent stock dividend. A nickel venture with Sumitomo
Corp. will start operations in the fourth quarter of 2013,
President Gerard Brimo said on June 8.  SM Investments Corp. (SM)  , holding company of
billionaire  Henry Sy , increased 2.2 percent to 700 pesos, the
highest close this month. The company has set aside 5 billion
pesos ($116 million) to build two hotels under the Luxury brand,
the Philippine Star reported, citing documents filed with the
Securities & Exchange Commission. Chief Financial Officer Jose
Sio couldn’t be reached at his office for comment. The company
said it got approval from the SEC to sell 10 billion pesos of
bonds, with room for an additional 5 billion pesos, a stock-
exchange filing showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  