-- Dodd-Frank’s Liquidation Plan Is Worse Than Bankruptcy
-- B y   P e t e r   J .   W a l l i s o n
-- 2012-06-11T22:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/dodd-frank-s-liquidation-plan-is-worse-than-bankruptcy.html
Some of the key provisions of the
Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, advertised as crucial to preventing a
new financial crisis, won’t live up to the claims of its
sponsors.  We have a nice example of this in the plan that the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. revealed last month for how it expects
to deal with troubled financial institutions under the  Orderly
Liquidation Authority  outlined in the new law.  Under the plan, the agency would create a bridge
institution to assume the assets and liabilities of a failed
firm and could force some creditors to take equity in place of
their debt holdings. The firm’s subsidiaries would continue
operating with funds the FDIC is permitted to borrow from the
 U.S. Treasury . Whatever costs the FDIC incurs would be assessed
against the largest members of the financial community.  As with most things in Dodd-Frank, the public knows little
about the liquidation authority, although it has been touted by
the Obama administration and others as solving the problem of
bailouts for firms seen as too big to fail. But it does nothing
of the kind; instead it makes the problem worse.  The powers granted by the liquidation authority to the
secretary of the Treasury are unprecedented. With the
concurrence of the  Federal Reserve  and the FDIC, the secretary
can seize any financial firm -- not just the largest ones -- if
he believes its failure would cause instability in the U.S.
financial system.  One Day  If the firm’s directors object to the seizure, the
secretary can apply to a U.S. district court for an order
authorizing him to appoint the FDIC as receiver. The court has
one day -- yes, one day -- to decide whether the secretary’s
judgment was correct. If the court takes no action within this
window, the firm is turned over to the FDIC. It’s a felony to
disclose that the secretary has applied for the court order. The
constitutional issues here are obvious and breathtaking.  Essentially, there’s no appeal. The secretary’s seizure
isn’t subject to a stay or injunction, and once the firm has
been delivered into the arms of the FDIC, it’s as good as dead.  It is true that the agency has a well-deserved reputation
for taking control of small insolvent banks over a weekend and
opening them under new ownership the following Monday. But the
FDIC has never closed anything other than a small bank. With the
larger and more complicated lenders, it simply sells one to
another, as it did with Washington Mutual Inc. (to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.) and Wachovia Corp. (to  Wells Fargo & Co .). There is
nothing in the FDIC’s history to suggest that the agency would
be able to liquidate an investment bank on the scale of  Lehman
Brothers  Holdings Inc., which had $600 billion in assets; or a
major bank-holding company; or a large insurer or hedge fund.  The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a crucial too-big-to-fail
problem by authorizing a group of regulators to designate
certain nonbank firms as systemically important because their
collapse “may cause instability in the U.S. financial system.”
The liquidation authority is supposed to cure this problem, but
how so?  The concern is that large firms get bailed out because
regulators -- fearful of the disruptions caused by a major
bankruptcy -- won’t let them fail. As Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  have said again and
again, when Lehman Brothers was about to collapse, the
government only had a choice between a bailout and bankruptcy;
the liquidation authority, they say, provides a middle course --
an opportunity to wind down an important financial institution
without the disruption that a bankruptcy would cause.  Advance Notice  But this idea doesn’t stand up to scrutiny. A bankruptcy is
disruptive because the firm’s creditors know in most cases they
won’t be fully repaid. Accordingly, as the firm nears bankruptcy
its creditors refuse to extend new credit or withdraw the funds
they can. By the time the company files for bankruptcy,
shareholders usually have been wiped out and the remaining
creditors suffer losses.  A large bankruptcy can also be disruptive if investors and
creditors run from other firms that they fear might have similar
financial troubles. This happened in 2008 when Lehman’s
bankruptcy sparked a panic because investors were concerned that
almost all financial institutions were weakened by the mortgage
meltdown.  How is a liquidation-authority seizure any different?
Instead of bankruptcy, the  Treasury secretary  assumes control of
the firm and hands it over to the FDIC. Will that be any less of
a market shock? In both cases, creditors will run if they
suspect a bankruptcy or a government takeover is near, and after
the seizure -- again as in the Lehman case -- they will run from
other firms if conditions in the market are the same as those in
2008. So the liquidation authority is no better than bankruptcy
in preventing chaos after a large firm fails.  But it is worse than bankruptcy because it has no rules
subject to legal oversight. Secured creditors don’t know in
advance whether they will be repaid and, in contrast to
bankruptcy, the creditors have no say in whether the firm is
liquidated or recapitalized by turning their debt into equity.
Under the FDIC plan, the government makes this decision, picking
winners and losers. Politics will hover in the background. The
uncertainties inherent in the liquidation authority will make
credit more expensive for all financial firms of any size.  No wonder the House Financial Services Committee voted in
April to repeal this part of Dodd-Frank even before the FDIC
unveiled how it would manage the liquidation authority. It was a
bankrupt idea from the start.  (Peter J. Wallison is the Arthur F. Burns Fellow in
Financial Policy Studies at the  American Enterprise Institute .
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Spain’s bank bailout  and
 Russia’s foolish military buildup;   Ramesh Ponnuru  on  myths of
the Wisconsin election ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on
 the death penalty and crime ; James Mann on  the Obama
administration’s Libya paradigm ;  Amity Shlaes  and David
Pietrusza on  Coolidge and persistence .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter J. Wallison at  pwallison@aei.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  