-- Dutch Budget Gap Will Breach EU Limit in 2014, Central Bank Says
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-06-11T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/dutch-budget-gap-will-breach-eu-limit-in-2014-central-bank-says.html
The budget deficit of the
Netherlands, forecast to meet a European Union limit for the
first time in five years in 2013, will exceed the threshold
again a year later, the country’s central bank said.  “This clearly shows the big challenge the government
awaits, also after 2013, to shore up state finances,” the Dutch
central bank in Amsterdam, led by Klaas Knot, said in its
biannual economic forecast published today.  The deficit will narrow to 2.9 percent of gross domestic
product next year from 4.1 percent this year, the central bank
forecast. In 2014, the shortfall will widen to 3.1 percent,
exceeding the EU’s 3 percent limit. The central bank said an
expected increase in state income that year, fueled by economic
growth, will be offset by a planned  tax cut .  The Netherlands’ caretaker Cabinet agreed on an emergency
austerity deal in April with three opposition parties after the
 Freedom Party  withdrew support for the minority government. The
fifth-largest economy in the euro area expects to save 12.4
billion euros ($15.6 billion) next year by raising taxes and
cutting spending to meet the EU’s budget-deficit limit.  The central bank forecasts that the economy will shrink 0.6
percent this year, compared with a December projection for 0.2
percent growth. While GDP will rise 0.6 percent in 2013, that’s
less than half the pace previously forecast. GDP will return to
its 2008 level by 2014, the bank said.  Consumer Spending  While the economy is forecast to recover, household
consumption will continue to decline in the next two years as
 house prices  fall, inflation exceeds wage growth and
unemployment rises, according to today’s report. House prices
will continue to drop into 2014 because of stricter mortgage-
lending rules and a reduction of a home-owner tax break, the
bank forecast.  The European Commission voiced concerns last month about
the austerity measures proposed by the caretaker government,
saying there are “substantial implementation risks due to
upcoming election.” The Netherlands faces “serious challenges
in the short to medium term,” it said.  Caretaker Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager last week
postponed a decision on the reduction of a tax break for new
mortgages until after September elections, raising that chance
that a new parliament will withdraw support for the austerity
measure. Acting Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  said yesterday his
 Liberal Party  after the elections may undo the abolishment of a
tax break for commuters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net . 