-- The Death-Penalty Debate Represents a Market Failure
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   a n d   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-06-11T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/the-death-penalty-debate-represents-a-market-failure.html
The debate over the death penalty
offers a vivid illustration of a tragic flaw in the market of
ideas: Strong beliefs attract a lot more attention, and can have
a lot more influence, than the truth.  In recent years, five U.S. states have eliminated capital
punishment, and several others are currently reconsidering their
policies. Advocates of the death penalty insist the moves will
lead to more murders. They point to a number of studies
conducted over the past couple of decades that purport to find
clear evidence supporting their view. Experts happily serve up
unequivocal congressional testimony, and feed their analyses to
lobby groups.  The reality, unsatisfying and inconvenient as it may be, is
that we simply don’t know how capital punishment affects the
homicide rate. That’s  the conclusion of the National Academy of
Sciences , which typically plays the role of impartial arbiter in
these social-science debates. Their expert panel recently
concluded that existing research “is not informative about
whether capital punishment decreases, increases, or has no
effect on homicide rates,” and that such studies “should not
influence policy judgments about capital punishment.”  Profound Uncertainty  The panel’s conclusions largely echo those from  research
conducted by one of us  ( Justin Wolfers ) jointly with Stanford
University law professor John Donohue. That research replicated
and probed the leading studies, finding that even minor changes
in how the analyses were conducted dramatically altered the
conclusions. As a result, there’s “not just ‘reasonable doubt’
about whether there is any deterrent effect of the death
penalty, but profound uncertainty,” the authors  wrote . Indeed,
“we remain unsure even of whether” the effects “are positive or
negative.”  How could the confident claims of those earlier researchers
end up being so wrong? Let’s start by exploring why it’s so
difficult to give a precise answer to those interested in the
effects of the death penalty.  As big a deal as capital punishment may seem,  it’s actually
quite rare . Since the death penalty was reinstated in the U.S.
in 1976, there have been about 670,000 homicides and only 1,296
executions, a rate of about one execution per 500 murders. This
makes the task of discerning its specific impact very difficult.  To complicate things further, the homicide rate fluctuates
enormously for reasons unrelated to capital punishment. So the
correlation between capital punishment and homicide rates can be
positive or negative, depending on the specific sample of states
or countries analyzed, the sample period chosen, and which other
determinants are accounted for.  Even if the correlation between capital punishment and
murder rates could be reliably estimated, that wouldn’t be
enough to prove causation. For instance, more vigorous capital
punishment probably occurs at the same time as other reforms to
sentencing, prisons and policing. Unless these variables are
measured accurately -- and our existing criminal-justice
statistics do not provide adequate measures -- it is impossible
to disentangle which reforms are driving the homicide rate.  It’s not even clear how to determine whether a state has an
active death penalty. Is  Connecticut ’s recent decision to
eliminate its death penalty consequential, given that the state
 executed only one person in the past 50 years ? California has
issued 951 death sentences since 1976, but executed only 13
prisoners, suggesting that the courts have slowed down the
system enough to effectively transform a nominal death sentence
into life without parole.  Model Uncertainty  Finally, we have no evidence at all on how would-be
murderers perceive the risk of execution if they are caught,
which is what really matters for deterrence.  Taken together, the various problems of measuring the
relationship between crime and punishment yield what the
National Academy panel calls “model uncertainty.” In English,
that means there are many seemingly plausible ways of looking at
the evidence that yield dramatically different answers. The true
effect could be big or small, positive or negative. We just
can’t estimate it with any certainty.  What the panel didn’t say -- but we think they should have
-- is that model uncertainty facilitates abuse in the midst of a
politically charged debate. With so many plausible approaches,
there’s nothing to stop researchers fishing for a flashy result
that may further their careers or ideological objectives.
Indeed, the study by Donohue and Wolfers yielded some evidence
suggesting researchers suppressed those results that failed to
significantly support their hypotheses.  Even if one accepts the possibility that the threat of
death deters some would-be murderers, that doesn’t mean it’s the
best way to do so. Capital punishment diverts hundreds of
millions of dollars from other criminal-justice interventions
that may have done more to reduce homicide rates. This important
point -- there’s an opportunity cost to spending on capital
punishment -- often gets overlooked.  Amid all the uncertainty, the data do allow one conclusion
that the National Academy should have emphasized more strongly:
The death penalty isn’t the dominant factor driving the
fluctuations in the U.S. homicide rate. If it were, the homicide
rate in the U.S. wouldn’t have moved in lockstep with that of
 Canada , even as the two countries experimented with different
death-penalty regimes (see chart). Likewise, homicide rates tend
to rise and fall roughly in unison across states, even as some -
- such as  Texas  -- ramp up executions, and others have chosen
not to adopt the practice (see chart).  Overall, the panel’s conclusions are a welcome corrective
to a debate in which politically expedient, yet imperfect,
findings have attracted greater attention than those rare
moments of humility when we social scientists admit what we
don’t know. Now that a widely respected authority has
established the uncertainty about the deterrent effects of the
death penalty, it’s time for advocates on both sides to
recognize that their beliefs are the product of faith, not data.  (Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers, both professors at
the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, are Bloomberg
View columnists. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Spain ’s bank bailout and
 Russia’s foolish military buildup;   Ramesh Ponnuru  on  myths of
the Wisconsin election ; James Mann on  the Obama administration’s
Libya paradigm ;  Amity Shlaes  and David Pietrusza on  Coolidge and
persistence ; Peter J. Wallison on  the trouble with liquidating
failing banks .  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@wharton.upenn.edu 
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@wharton.upenn.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  