-- LeBron James’s Heat Are Underdogs Against Thunder in NBA Finals
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/lebron-james-s-heat-are-underdogs-against-thunder-in-nba-finals.html
LeBron James  is four wins away from
his first National Basketball Association championship after
getting Miami back to the NBA Finals, though oddsmakers peg the
Heat as underdogs against the Oklahoma City Thunder.  The betting lines in Las Vegas suggest the Thunder, led by
Russell Westbrook and NBA scoring leader  Kevin Durant  -- both 23
-- have a 61 percent chance of winning the best-of-seven
championship series, according to Las Vegas-based handicapping
information website  Pregame.com .  James, 27, and fellow Heat All-Stars  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  have a 39 percent chance of capturing the title that eluded
them last year when they lost in six games to the  Dallas
Mavericks , according to the betting lines. A winning $100 bet on
the Heat would return $145 plus the initial stake, while a
bettor has to wager $165 to win $100 on the Thunder.  “It’s been a long 12 months,” Wade said after the Heat
eliminated the  Boston Celtics  in a decisive seventh game in the
Eastern Conference finals. “When you lose in the Finals, it
hurts. You play and you try to get back to this moment again, so
you can in a sense redeem yourself.”  While Wade helped the Heat to an NBA title in 2006, James
is still pursuing the first of his nine-year career.  The NBA’s three-time Most Valuable Player has lost both of
his appearances in the NBA Finals, in 2007 with the  Cleveland
Cavaliers  and last year in his first season teaming with Wade
and Bosh in Miami.  “We’re happy we’ve been able to put ourselves in this
position,” said James, who has averaged 30.8 points, 9.6
rebounds and 5.1 assists in 18 games this postseason. “We look
forward to the challenge.”  Thunder Impress  While Miami entered the past two regular seasons and
postseasons as the championship favorites, the youthful Thunder
have emerged as the oddsmakers’ choice after a challenging run
to the Western Conference title.  Oklahoma City defeated the defending-champion Mavericks in
the opening round, then beat  Kobe Bryant  and the  Los Angeles
Lakers , who won NBA titles in 2009-10. The Thunder got into the
Finals by ousting the  San Antonio Spurs , who won championships
in 2005 and 2007, tied for the league’s best regular-season
record at 50-16 and won their first 10 playoff games.  Thunder coach Scott Brooks said the Heat will be his team’s
most challenging opponent yet.  “They have some of the best players at their positions in
the league,” Brooks said. “James, Wade, Bosh, they are amazing
players, they can score without screens, they can score with
screens, they can help their teammates score. It’s going to be
two competitive teams going at each other.”  Opening Game  The Thunder are a 4 1/2-point favorite for Game 1 of the
series, which starts tomorrow with the first of two straight
games in  Oklahoma City . The third, fourth and fifth games of the
Finals are scheduled to be played in Miami, with the sixth and
seventh games, if necessary, in Oklahoma City.  James said it’s fitting he’s going up against Durant, who
averaged 28 points a game this season to win a third straight
scoring title. The two worked out together during the lockout in
James’s hometown of Akron, Ohio, during the NBA lockout, with a
four-day series of workouts they dubbed “Hell Week.”  “We pushed each other each and every day,” James said.
“I envisioned us getting to this point. I’m looking forward to
going against him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  