-- Lee Warns on S. Korea Riposte to Any North Provocation
-- B y   B r e t t   M i l l e r   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-06-11T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/lee-warns-on-swift-s-korea-riposte-to-any-provocation-by-north.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
said his government has put North Korea on notice that it will
issue a swift and powerful retaliation to any military
provocation, and urged the totalitarian state to adopt Myanmar’s
example of political opening.  “It is now our government’s clear policy to respond
strongly and immediately in times of military provocation,”
Lee, 70, said yesterday during a discussion with journalists at
his office in the Blue House in Seoul. “This policy has been
officially communicated to North Korea through  China .”  South Korea , along with the U.S. and  Japan , has voiced
concern that North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un may undertake a
nuclear test to reassert his power after a long-range rocket
test in April failed and cost the impoverished nation a U.S.
food aid deal. Lee’s comments also underscore the importance of
China,  North Korea ’s biggest trade partner, as the main channel
of communication with the isolated regime.  North Korea, which denied on June 9 it was planning to test
a nuclear weapon “at present,” has repeatedly threatened to
attack Lee’s government in the six months since Kim succeeded
his late father  Kim Jong Il , who died in December. Lee said
yesterday that the hostile rhetoric from the North, which
included an April 24 threat to turn him and his government into
“ashes in three or four minutes,” was meant for internal
consumption.  ’Seeking Stability’  “The Kim Jong Un regime, on the surface, is seeking
stability,” Lee said. “It is at present difficult to say
whether they will be successful. The only path for North Korea
is to denuclearize and open up like Myanmar and join the
international community.”  Myanmar President Thein Sein has won praise from world
leaders after freeing political prisoners, easing media
restrictions and convincing opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi 
to stand for parliament since taking power 14 months ago. His
party’s election win in 2010, while criticized by western
nations at the time, ended about five decades of direct military
control.  North Korea is dependent on energy and food assistance from
China, which has tried to support its neighbor to avoid unrest
that could hinder trade and prompt a wave of refugees across its
border. North Korea’s foreign trade grew 51 percent in 2011 to a
22-year high of $6.3 billion as the country boosted mineral
exports to China, South Korea’s state-run trade agency said on
June 1.  Nuclear Test  “By specifying that the official communication was made
via Beijing, Lee is trying to show that he is making use of the
perceived gravitas Beijing seems to exude to Pyongyang,” said
Park Young Ho, senior research fellow at the state-run Korea
Institute for National Unification in  Seoul .  In denying it was planning a nuclear test, the government
in Pyongyang said June 9 that Lee’s administration was trying to
“rattle the nerves of the DPRK in a bid to cause it to conduct
a nuclear test,” according to a statement carried on the
official Korean Central News Agency. DPRK stands for the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the North’s official
name.  A South Korean intelligence report obtained by Bloomberg
News on April 9 said satellite photographs of the Punggye-ri
nuclear test site near North Korea’s border with Russia and
China showed excavation consistent with preparations for an
underground atomic device detonation.  Rolling Back ’Sunshine’  Tensions on the Korean peninsula rose after the North’s
shelling of Yeonpyeong Island in November 2010 killed four
people, and an international panel found North  Korea  guilty of
torpedoing the Cheonan, a South Korean warship, in March 2010,
killing 46 sailors.  Lee’s stance toward North Korea contrasts with the so-
called “Sunshine Policy” of engagement followed by his
predecessor. He has less than eight months left of his single
five-year term and an election to choose the next president will
be held on Dec. 19.  His popularity stands at 29.9 percent, according to a
Realmeter poll taken June 4-8. The survey of 3,000 people had a
margin of error of plus or minus 1.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Miller in Seoul at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  