-- Egyptian Stocks: Orascom Construction, EFG-Hermes, South Valley
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-06-11T14:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/egyptian-stocks-orascom-construction-south-valley-cement.html
Egypt’s benchmark  EGX30 Index (EGX30) 
declined 1.7 percent to 4,394.32 at the 2:30 p.m. close in
Cairo, the lowest level since January 24.  The following shares were active on the Egyptian Exchange.
Stock symbols follow company names.  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO)   declined 5.1 percent to 10
Egyptian pounds, the lowest level in more than five months.
 Planet IB Ltd . said in a statement yesterday “confirming the
seriousness of its offer” to buy the biggest publicly traded
Arab investment bank, threatening to derail a deal between EFG-
Hermes and QInvest to create a joint investment bank.  “There’s speculation that Planet is trying to recruit
significant investors in EFG-Hermes to file a complaint with the
regulator to suspend the QInvest deal,” Wafik Dawood, director
of institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments
Securities, said by phone. “The dispute between the pro- and
anti-QInvest camps is weighing on sentiment.”  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC)   fell 1.5 percent
to 244.24 Egyptian pounds, the lowest level in more than four
months. First-quarter profit for Egypt’s biggest publicly traded
builder dropped 54 percent to 567 million pounds ($94 million)
from the year-earlier period. That missed the 716 million-pound
average estimate of eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  South Valley Cement (SVCE)   slumped 2.6 percent to 3.02
pounds, the lowest level since January. The Cairo-based producer
of the building material will call a shareholders’ meeting to
seek approval for the sale of a precast concrete plant in  Sharm
el-Sheikh , Egypt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  