-- Einhorn Damage Control at Herbalife With Nutrition Clubs
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-06-11T17:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/einhorn-damage-control-at-herbalife-with-nutrition-clubs-retail.html
Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  has an image problem
on Wall Street.  Ever since Greenlight Capital Inc.’s  David Einhorn  dialed
into a May 1 earnings conference call asking for more
disclosure, investors have shunned shares of the nutritional and
weight-loss supplement maker. The influential hedge-fund
manager’s query hit right at Herbalife’s marketing Achilles
heel: how to keep track of inventory when much of it is sold
from thousands of distributors’ homes and car trunks. Einhorn
had dredged up skepticism that has long plagued direct sellers
from  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  to Tupperware Brands Corp.  Herbalife executives say they thought they’d put such
concerns behind them, especially since their products
increasingly are sold in so-called nutrition clubs -- shopfronts
where customers can drop by to sample products and exchange
weight-loss tips. These operate more like traditional retail
stores, which are easier for investors to understand.  “There is enough insecurity in the direct-selling model
that the stock reacted significantly with the questions Einhorn
raised,” Chief Financial Officer John DeSimone said in a
telephone interview. “It’s an indication we need to do a better
job of educating  Wall Street  as to how the model works.”  On the call, Einhorn asked why Herbalife stopped giving a
breakdown of three groups of distributors it had previously
provided. He also asked for an explanation of financial
incentives given to supervisors who sign up new distributors.
DeSimone, who told Einhorn he stopped providing the data because
it didn’t seem valuable to investors, agreed on the call to
resume the disclosures.  Herbalife Plummeted  Investors weren’t assuaged. Herbalife plummeted 20 percent
the day of the call, on the way to its largest three-day decline
since the shares began trading in December 2004. Before
Einhorn’s query, Herbalife’s share price had hit an all-time
high on April 23, spurred on by a 26 percent sales surge in
2011. The shares, down 36 percent from April 30 through June 8,
rose 0.1 percent to $45.10 at 1:41 p.m. in  New York .  Einhorn declined to comment.  Herbalife executives will try to reassure investors by
demonstrating the benefits of nutrition clubs, DeSimone said.  That should help because “you can go into these nutrition
clubs and see the sales channel and measure it,” said Scott Van Winkle, a Boston-based analyst with Canaccord Genuity Inc.  The first nutrition clubs popped up in  Mexico  in 2003 in
the homes of independent distributors, much like Tupperware
parties. Soon, distributors were opening small shops to mix
protein shakes and sell them one at a time. Latino migrants took
the method to the U.S. in 2006. It soon spread to Taiwan, Korea
and  Brazil . The most popular nutrition club products are a
“Formula 1” protein shake, tea and an aloe drink.  Customer Interaction  The clubs boost sales two ways, according to DeSimone.
Distributors interact with their customers on a daily basis,
instead of every few weeks or months. And the clubs offer
weight-loss support groups and a social outlet, providing an
emotional connection to the products and distributors.  Why doesn’t Herbalife open its own stores? Building and
maintaining them is expensive. Herbalife’s return on capital
last year was 59 percent compared with  GNC Holdings Inc.’s (GNC)  9.5
percent. That’s partly why Herbalife traded at a premium to GNC
before Einhorn got involved. Since then, investors have bought
Herbalife at a 41 percent discount to GNC.  The direct selling model -- where customers proselytize on
behalf of the products -- is also well suited to nutritional
supplements, according to Van Winkle.  “In the case of weight-loss products, articulating the
benefit is incredibly challenging in a retail storefront when
there’s 150 products on the shelves,” he said. “It’s about
being face-to-face, telling a story about the product.”  Nutrition Club  Maria Avila, an Herbalife distributor who runs a nutrition
club at a strip mall in suburban Atlanta, entices customers with
a snapshot of herself 30 pounds heavier.  Last week, Avila scooped powder for an Herbalife shake into
a Styrofoam cup and mixed it with water in a blender. Pop music
accompanied the din of whirring blenders and conversation as
more than a half-dozen customers at a bar sipped lemon tea and
aloe-infused water.  Avila charges as many as 20 clients a day $4 for a serving
of each of Herbalife’s three top-selling drinks. Some come by
seven days a week. Avila holds weight-loss challenges, shows
Herbalife sales videos and sells drink mixes by the multi-pack.
She and the distributors in her organization operate the club
together and share the rent. Herbalife provides guidelines on
how to manage a center.  Herbalife Logos  If it weren’t for a small illuminated “open sign” showing
through windows obscured by green curtains, the center could be
easily missed. Avila and her partners aren’t allowed to use
 Herbalife  logos outside. The company doesn’t want clubs to have
an unfair advantage over distributors who work out of their
homes. Avila hands out coupons and talks to potential recruits,
just like every other distributor.  “This is where it all starts,” said the 30-year-old
mother of two. “We tell them to just come by and try the
products. It’s like going to Starbucks, but not being alone.”  Nutrition clubs and similar operations generated as much as
41 percent of Herbalife’s $3.45 billion in revenue last year,
the company says. Lost in the dust-up between Einhorn and
Herbalife is the fact that the growth of clubs like Avila’s has
made the company more transparent than ever, Van Winkle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  