-- Emal CEO Expects to Close $4.5 Billion Financing
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-06-11T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/emal-ceo-expects-to-close-4-5-billion-financing-by-end-of-year.html
Emirates Aluminium Co. expects to
close financing for a $4.5 billion expansion as it builds the
world’s biggest smelter of the lightweight metal.  “We are looking at the end of this year to wrap it up,”
Chief Executive Officer Saeed al-Mazrooei said in an interview
in his office. “We’ll see what terms and conditions the market
is offering, and based on that we can sit down with our
shareholders and say these are the best options we have.”  The company, known as Emal, plans to boost annual output to
1.3 million metric tons by 2014 from 800,000 tons as countries
in the oil-rich region use access to cheap fuel to diversify
away from crude.  Aluminium Bahrain BSC (ALBH)  last week said it would
spend $2.5 billion to raise capacity about 30 percent by 2015.  Oil royalties and taxes in the  United Arab Emirates  made up
about half of economic output in 2010, according to data from
its Statistics Centre. Energy accounts for 30 percent to 40
percent of aluminum smelting costs, according to Brook Hunt, a
London-based unit of Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd.  Saudi
Arabian Mining Co. (MAADEN) ’s $10.8 billion venture with Alcoa Inc.
includes building a 740,000 ton-a-year smelter by 2013.  Mubadala Development Co. and Dubai Aluminium Co., Emal’s
joint owners, may seek $3 billion for its Abu Dhabi project, two
people with knowledge of the matter said December. Funding would
be split between export credit agencies and commercial banks,
they said, declining to be identified as the deals are private.  “It won’t come all at one time, we don’t need it all at
one time,” Mazrooei said June 5. “The request for  cash flow ,
we can ask for it at the right time and the right place.”  Europe Shrinking  Gulf aluminum companies are expanding even as European and
U.S. rivals shutter plants amid a price slump as economic growth
weakens. Prices slid 25 percent in the past year to $1,974 a ton
in London. Norsk Hydro ASA, Europe’s third-largest producer,
said last week it would close a smelter in  Australia , Alcoa
plans to shut older sites, and United Co. Rusal, the biggest
producer, is studying curbs on smelting in the second half.  “There are many drivers for closures,” said Mazrooei, who
would like to see prices near $2,300. “The cost element, old
technology, the impact of environmental regulations for  Europe .
Today you have almost five smelters in the Gulf using new
technology, which drives the cost of aluminum to be very
competitive. The Gulf region will capture some market share.”  Mubadala and Dubal are considering building a refinery to
produce alumina, used to make aluminum, adding to the U.A.E.’s
competitiveness. Mazrooei says this is “good news” because it
would ensure security of supply for the companies’ smelters.  Asian Rising  Emal sells half its production to Asian countries including
 Japan ,  Korea  and South Asia, about a fifth to Europe, 15 percent
to the U.S., and 10 percent in the  Middle East .  The company recently doubled sales to an unnamed European
business to 120,000 tons a year, Mazrooei said. U.S. sales will
also rise, as Emal produces billets to meet construction growth
of about 2.3 percent a year, he said. The CEO also expects
growth in billet demand, meeting the infrastructure needs of the
new democracies of  Egypt ,  Libya , Iraq and Tunisia.  “We will sell almost 750,000 tons this year, same as last
year,” he said. “We are trying to improve the volumes. At the
end of this year we will be able to produce near 800,000.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 Adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  