-- Emerging Stocks Climb Most in 5 Months on China Exports
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-06-11T23:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/emerging-stocks-climb-to-2-week-high-on-china-export-data-spain.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to the
highest level in two weeks after better-than-estimated Chinese
trade and lending figures outweighed doubt that Spain’s bailout
plan will fail to contain the debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 1.1 percent to 914.87
at the close in New York, the highest level since May 29.  PT
United Tractors (UNTR) , Indonesia’s biggest heavy equipment seller,
rose 6 percent to lead the index’s advance, while  China Cosco
Holdings Co. (1919) , the world’s largest operator of dry-bulk ships,
surged the most in six months. Brazil’s Bovespa fell 0.8 percent
as  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  tumbled.  Chinese exports climbed at more than double the pace
economists predicted in May as new lending of 793.2 billion  yuan 
($125 billion) topped estimates, and inflation fell to a two-
year low, according to government reports. While Spain’s weekend
request for as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion) to bail
out banks fueled early gains, optimism over the plan faded as
some investors said it won’t halt the European debt crisis.  “There was a great deal of enthusiasm over the weekend for
the news that  Spain  would reach out to its EU colleagues to
request a 100-billion-euro package,”  Benoit Anne , head of
emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA in London, said
in an e-mailed note to clients today. “While this announcement
should be welcome, I don’t see this as a major game changer in
the EU sovereign debt crisis.”  While delivering “something of a mixed bag,” China’s May
economic data “continued to paint a picture of soft momentum,”
Anne wrote in a separate e-mail.  Oil Declines  Emerging stocks have slipped 0.2 percent in 2012 and trade
at a multiple of 9.9 times estimated earnings, compared with
11.7 for the MSCI gauge of developed nations, which has advanced
0.1 percent this year.  OGX Petroleo, the Brazilian  oil company  controlled by
billionaire  Eike Batista , retreated 7.4 percent in Sao Paulo as
crude oil for July delivery fell 1.7 percent to $82.70 on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . Brazil’s Bovespa fell 0.8 percent,
paring earlier gains of as much as 1.8 percent.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 2.4 percent,
its steepest increase since April 13. China Cosco Holdings
surged 11 percent in Hong Kong, the most in six months, on
prospects increasing trade will boost demand for marine
transport.  China’s Exports  Chinese exports climbed 15.3 percent in May, the Beijing-
based customs bureau said, exceeding all 29 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Imports rose 12.7 percent compared with
estimates of a 5.5 percent gain. Inflation slowed to 3 percent,
compared with the 3.2 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Thailand’s SET Index rose 2.7 percent, the most in seven
months.  PTT Exploration & Production (PTTEP)  jumped 4.7 percent after
Cove Energy, the U.K. explorer that agreed to be bought by
PTTEP, said it found natural gas. Taiwan’s Taiex Index and South
Korea’s Kospi rallied 1.7 percent.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , snapped five days
of gains, slumping 0.3 percent. The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  advanced 0.5
percent in Poland, which sends most of its exports to the euro
zone. The  BUX Index (BUX)  slipped 1.3 percent in Budapest.  Turkey’s benchmark index jumped 0.4 percent, rising for a
seventh day, its longest winning streak since 2010.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) 
climbed 1 percent, helping to push the Turkish advance.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries climbed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 401, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  