-- Emirates Seeks Closer Qantas Ties for Australian Growth
-- B y   Z e b   E c k e r t   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-06-11T03:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/emirates-seeks-closer-qantas-ties-for-australian-growth.html
Emirates Airline, the world’s
largest carrier by international passenger traffic, will seek
deeper ties with  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , the Australian company
struggling with escalating losses on long-haul routes.  The Dubai-based carrier is examining a “commercial
arrangement” with Qantas to benefit from the Australian
aviation market while stopping short of an equity stake in the
Sydney-based airline, Emirates president  Tim Clark  said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Beijing today.  Qantas  slumped 32 percent  last week after forecasting its
first annual net loss as a publicly traded company as
unprofitable long-haul routes and restructuring charges wipe out
earnings from domestic flights, where it has about 65 percent of
the market. A deeper alliance with Emirates would allow the
Australian airline to drop loss-making international services,
while the Dubai-based carrier could take international
passengers connecting from Qantas’s domestic flights.  “The Australian market has been one that is hugely
successful for Emirates,” Clark said today. “We want to grow
our business there and it makes a lot of sense to come to a
commercial arrangement with the major player in  Australia .”  Qantas Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce said June 5 that
the carrier would make its first annual net loss, sparking a
four-day stock slump which wiped about A$1 billion ($1 billion)
off the value of the company and pushed its stock below A$1 for
the first time since it first sold shares to the public in 1995.  Joyce declined to talk to reporters in Beijing, where he
was attending the International Air Transport Association annual
meeting.  Credit Downgrade  Losses before interest and tax on Qantas’s international
network will total A$450 million in the year ending June 30,
compared with a loss of A$216 million a year earlier, the
company said. The domestic routes will post profit of about
A$600 million, the airline said.  Standard & Poor’s  said June 8 it was considering a
downgrade of Qantas’s credit ratings, its highest for any
airline.  Qantas “have to do something or the shareholders will be
looking to get rid of the Qantas board and Alan Joyce,” Neil Hansford, chairman of consultants Strategic Aviation Solutions,
said by phone from Salamander Bay, Australia. “The
international business can only get worse.”  Etihad Airways PJSC, the  Middle East ’s third-largest
carrier, said June 5 it had bought 5 percent of  Virgin Australia
Holdings Ltd. (VAH) , the country’s second-ranked carrier.  “If Emirates are going to be successful against Etihad
they need the feed from Qantas’s domestic network,” said
Hansford.  One-stop Destinations  Qantas and partners, including  British Airways (IAG) , only fly
one-stop to five destinations in  Europe  and the Middle East from
Australia. Virgin Australia is able to fly one-stop to 19
destinations in the region from Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
through a tie-up with Abu Dhabi-based Etihad.  Qantas’s mainline carrier now flies to just 16 destinations
outside Australia and the South Pacific. The Australian airline
could potentially add more than 40 one-stop destinations to
Europe and the Middle East through an Emirates deal, based on
the Dubai airline’s website.  No Equity  Several major destinations, including Beijing,  Osaka ,
 Seoul , and  New Delhi , are run only as shared flight codes with
partners or operated by Qantas’s budget carrier Jetstar.  While Clark said Emirates’s relationship with Qantas was
“strong”, he said “it won’t get to a situation where we will
be taking equity.”  Emirates could take a stake of as much as 30 percent in a
Qantas domestic unit if the international operations were
separated, Sydney-based Deutsche Bank analyst Cameron McDonald
wrote in a May 24 note.  Qantas has been hit by higher  oil prices , which will help
boost annual fuel costs by A$700 million to A$4.4 billion,
Qantas said June 4. The price of  jet fuel  has averaged $127.30 a
barrel in  Singapore  since June 30, 18 percent higher than a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The carrier has a BBB rating from S&P, the highest among
airlines worldwide. The credit ratings company’s review, which
will take as long as 90 days, will probably only result in a one
level reduction, S&P said. That would reduce the carrier to the
lowest investment grade of BBB-, the same ranking as  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV)  and Deutsche Lufthansa AG. Those are the only
carriers not rated as junk by S&P.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeb Eckert in  Hong Kong  at 
 zeckert1@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  