-- England Draws 1-1 With France in Euro 2012; Co-Host Ukraine Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-06-11T21:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/england-france-tie-1-1-in-opening-euro-2012-group-d-match.html
England  and France tied 1-1 last
night at soccer’s European Championship, while Ukraine’s record
scorer Andriy Shevchenko got two goals as the co-host rallied to
beat Sweden 2-1.  Joleon Lescott gave England a 30th-minute lead in Donetsk,
Ukraine, heading in from a Steven Gerrard free kick. Samir Nasri
leveled nine minutes later, hitting a low shot past goalkeeper
 Joe Hart .  “I think we played well as we played against a tough
team,” England manager  Roy Hodgson  told reporters. “I’m not
frustrated at giving away the equalizer as we kept them at bay
really. In fact we had our own chances.”  France, which extends its unbeaten run to 22 matches, is
aiming for a record-tying third European crown and first since
2000. England has never won the tournament, its only
international title coming at the  World Cup  in 1966.  “We could have lost this game had we not reacted, so
that’s a positive,” France coach Laurent Blanc said. “But I
think if you look at the game, the side that played the most
football was France.”  Ukraine tops Group D after opening with a win in Kiev, the
35-year-old Shevchenko taking his tally of international goals
to 48. Zlatan Ibrahimovic got the game’s opening goal, his 32nd
for Sweden.  Few Early Chances  Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain began the match for England at the
Donbass Arena, the 18-year-old becoming his country’s second-
youngest player at a European Championship after  Wayne Rooney 
against France eight years ago. Rooney is suspended for
England’s opening two matches at this tournament. France’s
starting lineup included four players who are at English clubs.  There were few early opportunities on a warm evening in
Donetsk, with the first clear effort on goal coming from Nasri
on 11 minutes. His shot was wide of the far post.  James Milner  should have put England ahead four minutes
later after  Ashley Young  split France’s defense with a pass that
set the winger through on goal. Milner went wide as he tried to
round goalkeeper  Hugo Lloris  and shot into the sidenetting.  Yohan Cabaye tested Hart with a low shot seconds later at
the other end of the field.  England, looking to win its opening match at a European
Championship for a first time, was awarded a free kick after
half an hour when Milner was fouled by Patrice Evra. Gerrard
fired into the penalty area and Lescott got away from his marker
Alou Diarra to head into the net.  Diarra had a header saved five minutes later and, after
Franck Ribery collected the loose ball, had another opportunity
that he placed wide.  Nasri Strikes  France, which had six shots in target in the first half to
only one for England, was level on 39 minutes. Nasri collected
the ball just outside the penalty area and placed a low shot
into the corner just out of Hart’s reach.  The French continued to create more chances and dominate
possession in the second half without causing many problems for
Hart. Most of its shots were from long range and several blocked
by England defenders.  Karim Benzema did force the goalkeeper into a save after 65
minutes and an on-target effort by Cabaye was deflected wide by
 Danny Welbeck  with 10 minutes remaining.  Lescott’s goal was England’s only on-target effort in the
match as it was unable to get any shots directly on goal after
halftime. France center-back Philippe Mexes was, though, forced
to cut out a cross from Milner late on in a rare attack.  France finished with 15 shots on target and 61 percent of
possession.  “I’m pleased the game’s out of the way,” Hodgson said.
“I’m pleased the players have shown they can cope well at this
level, I’m looking forward to the next game.”  Shevchenko Double  After a first half with few chances, three goals were
scored in Kiev in the opening 17 minutes of the second period
between  Sweden  and Ukraine.  Ibrahimovic scored from close range on 52 minutes as
Ukraine failed to clear a cross from Seb Larsson, but the lead
was short-lived.  Shevchenko, playing his 109th match for Ukraine, headed
into the net from an Andriy Yarmolenko cross. He then got another
header to secure the win.  Sweden had chances to score again. Ibrahimovic tested
goalkeeper Andriy Pyatov with a powerful 20-yard shot, then in
the final minute  Johan Elmander  skewed a shot wide. Olof
Mellberg, playing in his fourth European Championship, looped an
effort over the bar in injury time.  England next faces Sweden on June 15, with France playing
Ukraine the same day.  Today in Group A, Greece plays the  Czech Republic  in
Wroclaw and co-host  Poland  meets  Russia  in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 