-- Tesco Shareholders Give Clarke Six Months to Turn U.K. Around
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-06-11T15:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/tesco-shareholders-give-clarke-six-months-to-turn-u-k-around.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Philip Clarke , who took direct control of the grocer’s domestic
business three months ago, has until the end of the year to
convince some investors he can return the U.K. to growth after
four quarters of declining sales.  “Six months is as long as anyone is prepared to wait for
some material progress to appear,” said Tim Green, who helps
manage more than 24 billion pounds ($37 billion) at Brewin
Dolphin Holdings Plc, including Tesco stock. “We need to see
some signs of progress, there is some impatience in the
market.” The retailer gets about  two-thirds  of sales and profit
from its home country.  Tesco  shares  have dropped 25 percent this year after the
Cheshunt, England-based company reduced its profit outlook in
January. Clarke will continue to oversee the domestic business
“until further notice,” he said today. The CEO devotes two
days a week to the U.K., where most of a planned 1 billion-pound
investment in store refurbishment, new products and additional
staffing is still to be made, he said.  The CEO’s decision to stick to direct control of the
business differs from that of Lars Olofsson, the former CEO of
French competitor  Carrefour SA. (CA)  Olofsson took over the running
of that grocer’s flailing domestic business for less than two
months last year after ousting the head of the business.  Richard Brasher  was appointed by Tesco to the new post of U.K. CEO when
Clarke won the role leading the entire company in 2010. Brasher
stepped down from the Tesco board in March after the retailer’s
share of the U.K. market slid to a seven-year low and a price-
cutting campaign failed to win back customers.  Past Star  “I want to see a lot more of the focus on the U.K. because
it’s been such a star in the past and it’s rather caught us by
surprise how quickly the slowdown has occurred,” said  Paul Mumford , a  fund manager  at Cavendish Asset Management who has
772 million pounds under management.  U.K. sales at stores open at least a year fell 1.5 percent
excluding fuel and value-added tax in the 13 weeks ended May 26,
the retailer said today. That matched the median estimate of 13
analysts compiled by Bloomberg, and compared with the prior
quarter’s 1.6 percent drop.  Tesco was unchanged at 302.8 pence as of the 4:30 p.m.
close of trading in London today. The stock is on track for its
third straight annual drop.  Clarke juggled the role of running the U.K. with visits to
seven of Tesco’s 13 overseas territories in the quarter, saying
he was too busy running the U.K. to visit all the regions as he
would have otherwise done.  ‘Tight Supervision’  The CEO’s management team spend one day a week in stores
working on areas such as staff training, improved layouts and
new ranges. He wouldn’t be drawn on the initial impact of the
measures or a timetable for turning the business around.  Clarke “needs to make sure he is keeping a tight
supervision on the improvement process,”  Brewin Dolphin 
Holdings Plc’s Green said. “There has been an element of u-
turn,” he said, given that Clarke established the U.K. CEO
position and appointed Brasher last year. “He didn’t realize
quite the extent of the U.K. weakness strategically.”  Customers are “delighted” with changes made so far,
Clarke said today, adding that sales in the week leading up to
this month’s four-day Diamond Jubilee holiday reached 1 billion
pounds, its biggest-ever week outside of Christmas.  Clarke acknowledged that there was a step-up in coupon
activity across the market in the past quarter, though such a
policy “isn’t a long-term solution,” he said. Tesco was later
than competitors to introduce vouchers to hard-pressed shoppers.  More Coupons  “We need to see sustained like-for-like relative
improvement without reliance on these, in our view, blunt and
expensive promotion instruments,” said  Andrew Kasoulis , an
analyst at Credit Suisse in London. Kasoulis has a hold
recommendation on Tesco shares.  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 0.5 percent at
Tesco’s international unit, compared with the median analyst
estimate of an unchanged performance. Revenue growth at the U.S.
Fresh & Easy chain slowed to 3.6 percent from 12.3 percent in
the prior period, while same-store sales in both the Asian and
European units increased 0.4 percent, Tesco said.  Clarke visited the U.S. a few weeks ago and said Fresh &
Easy is a “challenger brand that is having to adjust itself to
appeal to more and more customers.” A new ready-meal and fresh-
food product range is being introduced in a few weeks time.  “The U.S. has been a disappointing drag for a long time,”
Cavendish’s Mumford said. Tesco would be “better off if they
weren’t there.”  Still, it’s at home that investors said they mostly want to
see progress being made.  “His job is make-or-break to get the U.K. right,” said
Brewin Dolphin’s Green.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  