-- Tesco U.K. Sales Decline Persists as Shoppers Stay Away
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-06-11T08:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/tesco-u-k-sales-decline-persists-as-shoppers-stay-away.html
Tesco Plc, (TSCO)  the U.K.’s largest
supermarket company, said domestic sales declined for a fourth
straight quarter as Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke 
struggled to win back shoppers in the retailer’s main territory.  U.K. sales at stores open at least a year fell 1.5 percent
excluding fuel and value-added tax in the 13 weeks ended May 26,
the Cheshunt, England-based retailer said today. That matched
the median estimate of 13 analysts compiled by Bloomberg, and
compared with the prior quarter’s 1.6 percent drop.  Clarke said on a conference call that he’ll continue to
oversee the domestic business “until further notice,” three
months after assuming control of operations from Richard Brasher. The CEO said he devotes two days a week to the U.K.,
where Tesco has promised to invest 1 billion pounds ($1.6
billion) to arrest a slide in its market leadership. Most of
that investment is still to be made, he said today. The retailer
gets about two-thirds of  sales  from its home country.  “Tesco is still a strong business with an unassailable
market-leading position in the U.K. that has temporarily come
off the rails,” Freddie George, an analyst at Seymour Pierce in
London, said in a note to clients. “Nevertheless, it is hard to
see anything other than pedestrian earnings growth from the
company over the next three years.”  Tesco was little changed at 302.5 pence at 9:40 a.m. in
London trading, trailing a 1.4 percent advance in the U.K. FTSE
100 Index. The  stock  has fallen 25 percent this year.  U.K. Investment  The decline in sales at Tesco compares with gains being
reported by competitors including  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  and the
upscale Waitrose chain. The retailer’s share of U.K. grocery
spending slipped to 30.8 percent in the three months ended May
13, according to Kantar Worldpanel data.  Tesco was later than competitors to introduce money-off
vouchers to hard-pressed shoppers. Clarke acknowledged that
there has been a step-up in coupon activity across the market,
though such a policy “isn’t a long-term solution.”  U.K. consumer confidence  “isn’t getting any better” the
CEO said on the call. A falling oil price is “the great hope”
for shoppers, he said. The price of crude oil has declined 18
percent since April 30. Still, the cost of a tank of petrol has
risen to 70 pounds from 45 pounds two years ago.  The week leading up to the Diamond Jubilee weekend was the
retailer’s biggest ever, Tesco said. Prior to that, sales were
hurt by a wet April and comparison with a period of last year
that included national celebrations for the royal wedding.  International Sales  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 0.5 percent at
Tesco’s international unit, compared with the median analyst
estimate of an unchanged performance. Revenue growth at the U.S.
Fresh & Easy chain slowed to 3.6 percent from 12.3 percent in
the prior period, while same-store sales in both the Asian and
European units increased 0.4 percent, Tesco said.  “Internationally, like-for-like sales growth proved
resilient, despite slowing economic growth in  China  and the
emerging impact of recently introduced shopping hours
legislation in  South Korea ,” Clarke said.  The CEO defended the slowdown in the U.S. division. Three
years of positive same-store sales growth in a market that isn’t
growing “is pretty damn good,” he said.  Fresh & Easy  Still, Clarke said he “needs a bit more” from the Fresh &
Easy business as it pushes for profitability by the year ending
February 2014, and said the “biggest ever change of range” is
about to hit stores this month with a new ready-meal line.  In South Korea, the CEO said it’s more than likely that all
its hypermarkets, numbering more than 100, will be affected by
new laws restricting opening hours from the end of July.  “It’s too early to say, but we did flag in April that we
were concerned there would be a sales impact in like-for-like
terms,” Clarke said. “It’s very difficult to see the
government’s going to make changes” to the laws, which restrict
large retailers from opening on two Sundays every month, given
the combined parliamentary and presidential elections this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  