-- EU Criticized With U.S. for Bank Rules Weaker Than Basel III
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-06-11T15:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/eu-criticized-with-u-s-over-bank-rules-weaker-than-basel-iii.html
The U.S., European Union and  Japan 
may fail to fully implement  bank-capital rules  drawn up to
prevent a repeat of the financial crisis that followed the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., global watchdogs
warned.  International teams of regulators have found weaknesses in
the nations’ implementing measures for the so-called Basel III
standards, the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said today
in a statement on its website.  Preliminary assessments of the EU, the U.S. and Japan
“have identified areas of divergence” with the Basel accord,
the group said. There are “key areas where domestic
implementation may be weaker than the globally-agreed
standards.”  Nations face a January 2013 deadline set by the Basel
committee for implementing the new rules, which more than triple
the core capital that lenders must have to stave off insolvency,
and require banks to build up buffers of easy-to-sell assets.
The measures were published by the group in 2010.  The January 2013 deadline “is certainly challenging on an
EU-wide basis,”  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the European
Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee said in an
e-mail. The Basel committee’s decision to review proposed
liquidity rules for lenders shows that “taking a bit of time to
get things right is better than rushing,” she said.  Full Effect  EU and U.S. regulators have said that they will be vigilant
in policing how each party applies the Basel III standards,
which are scheduled to take full effect in 2019.  Stefan Ingves, the Basel committee’s chairman, announced
last year that the group would organize so-called peer review
teams to assess how well authorities and banks comply with Basel
III. The group’s decision to carry out these assessments
followed the failure of the U.S. to apply a previous round of
rules, known as  Basel II , that was agreed on by the committee in
2004, and were scheduled to enter into force in 2007.  Today’s report sets out preliminary findings by the review
teams, which plan further “on site” visits by the end of July,
the group said.  For the EU, the findings include that the bloc risks
watering down a ban on lenders counting their insurance arms’
reserves toward meeting their capital requirements.  Core Capital  The EU text is also less precise than Basel III in defining
what kinds of securities can count towards core capital, the
group said.  Michel Barnier , the 27-nation EU’s financial services
chief, has said that Basel III should be “calibrated” to adapt
it to the bloc’s banking system. Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman
for Barnier, couldn’t be reached for comment today.  For the U.S., potential concerns include that the nation’s
regulators may apply the rules to  too few banks , the group said.  Also, U.S. plans to ban banks from relying on assessments
by credit-ratings companies to calculate their  capital
requirements  may also hamper compliance with Basel III, the
group said.  “What gives reason for concern is the fact that some
countries have still not fully implemented Basel II,” Markus
Heidinger, a partner dealing with financial regulation at law
firm Wolf Theiss in Vienna said in an e-mail.  “When one takes into account the competitive effect of
higher costs of increased regulation, it is to be expected that
countries will closely watch each other’s implementation
efforts,” he said.  Credit Booms  Issues flagged for Japan include that the nation has yet to
publish rules, scheduled to apply from 2016, requiring banks to
build up capital buffers during credit booms.  The Basel committee brings together bank regulators from
27 countries including the U.S., the U.K. and  China .  Today’s report will be submitted to Group of 20 leaders at
a summit on June 18-19. The document is based on information
gathered up to May 31, the group said.  Proposals made last week by U.S. regulators for applying
parts of Basel III to the country’s lenders are not taken into
account in today’s report, the Basel group said.  Final reports on Basel III implementation in the EU, U.S
and Japan are set to be published in September.  Less Capital  U.S bankers, including  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer
of JPMorgan Chase & Co., have said that flexible implementation
of previous rounds of Basel rules in the EU has allowed European
lenders to hold less capital against some assets than their U.S.
counterparts.  The Basel group said last year that it would examine these
alleged differences in how banks measure the risk of losses on
their assets, with the aim of publishing preliminary findings by
the end of 2012.  Initial examinations have shown that there is “substantial
unexplained variation” in how banks carry out this so-called
risk weighting on securities they intend to trade, the group
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at   cscinta@bloomberg.net  