-- EU Risks 12 Years of Oversupply in CO2 Market: Report
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-06-11T11:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/eu-risks-12-years-of-oversupply-in-co2-market-report.html
The European Union’s emissions
trading system will be oversupplied for the next 12 years unless
policy makers intervene to withhold carbon allowances from the
market and tighten climate targets, a study showed.  The region’s emissions-reduction program, also known as the
ETS, will have 1.42 billion excess permits to discharge carbon
dioxide by 2020 without policy changes, according to the study
carried out by the Oko Institut for Greenpeace and WWF. The
report, whose publication today coincides with a meeting of EU
environment ministers, points to economic slowdown and imports
of foreign carbon credits as the main reasons for oversupply.  “Without intervention, the effectiveness of the ETS would
suffer from a lack of scarcity until 2024,” said Joris den
Blanken, emissions expert at the Greenpeace European unit in
Brussels. “This report proves we simply need deeper emission
cuts, not just a short-term fix, if we want to keep rewarding
green investments in  Europe .”  The European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s regulatory
arm, is considering options to improve the world’s biggest cap-
and-trade carbon market after the price of allowances slumped to
a record low of 5.99 euros ($7.52) earlier this year due to
oversupply. EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said in
April that as a first step to fix the market she planned to
propose delaying some auctions of permits in the first years of
the next trading period that runs from 2013 to 2020.  ‘Negligible Effects’  The permits would be returned to the market at a later
stage in the so-called Phase 3 and the total pollution cap would
not be changed under the proposal, which the commission signaled
would be submitted to  member states  in the middle of July for
consideration and then a vote.  Should the EU set aside 1.4 billion permits in four equal
tranches from 2013 to 2016 any reintroduction of the permits to
the market before 2020 will have “negligible price effects”
and the ETS will remain oversupplied until 2024, according to
the Oko Institut report. A “significant and timely” reduction
of the oversupply is possible only if the EU combines a set-
aside of allowances with tightening the current emission-
reduction targets, the study showed.  The ETS’s pollution curbs on more than 12,000 utilities and
manufacturers currently lead to a cap in 2020 that will be 21
percent less than 2005 discharges. In the third trading period,
when the ETS will expand to include new industries and most
permits will be auctioned, the limit will decrease by 1.74
percent annually.  20 Euros  “ The combination of a set-aside, which is held back for a
decade or more or is finally retired, and an increase of the
linear reduction factor from 1.74 percent to 3.9 percent from
2014 onwards would lift the EUA price by up to 7 euros in 2013
and potentially by more than 20 euros by 2020,” the Oko
Institut said in the report.  EU allowances for delivery in December traded up 1.1
percent at 6.76 euros a metric ton as of 12:08 p.m. on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London . The contract was still 61
percent down compared with a year ago because of oversupply.  The increase of the linear reduction factor in the ETS to
3.9 percent a year would mean tightening Europe’s headline
carbon-reduction goal to 30 percent from the current 20 percent
by 2020 compared with 1990 levels, according to the report.  EU member states remain divided on whether to raise the
stringency of the EU’s climate policies. While western European
countries have voiced support for tighter pollution caps on
companies, eastern nations have in previous years tended to
favor a more cautious approach.  Blocked Declaration  Poland , which relies on coal for more than 90 percent of
its electricity, twice in the past year blocked a political
declaration by EU ministers on climate policies, saying it was
concerned it could lead to a legislative proposal on tighter
carbon goals.  The future EU emission-reduction path was removed from the
agenda of today’s ministerial meeting after  Germany , which
wanted to have a discussion on the issue, concluded it was
impossible to secure unanimous support for a political
declaration on the matter, an EU official said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  