-- EU Report on Carbon Market Due Before August: Hedegaard
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-06-11T16:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/eu-report-on-carbon-market-due-before-august-hedegaard.html
The European Union will present a
report on its emissions trading system and a proposal to delay
auctions of some carbon permits before the summer recess that
starts in August, EU climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said.  The report, which is being brought forward by a year, will
include some long-term options to improve the EU cap-and-trade
program, Hedegaard told reporters after a meeting of the bloc’s
environment ministers in  Luxembourg  today. The price of permits
in the European carbon market dropped to a record low earlier
this year due to oversupply caused by the economic slowdown.  “There will be a proposal on how we can backload the
auctioning profile, which is a short-term measure,” Hedegaard
said. “We will also give different options as to what could be
longer-term, more structural things you can do with the carbon
market, and ministers can come back and discuss that later.”  A reduction in the auction volumes from 2013 would
temporarily curb the excess amount of permits in the EU
emissions trading system, also known as the ETS, without
changing the total pollution cap in the eight-year trading
period that starts next year. The emission limits that the
world’s biggest cap-and-trade program imposes on more than
12,000 facilities owned by manufacturers and utilities were set
before the debt crisis and economic slump.  Auctioning Regulation  The planned proposal will come in the form of a revision to
the carbon auctioning regulation, which will be carried out
through the so-called comitology procedure, where a measure
needs qualified-majority support from representatives of
national governments in the Climate Change Committee to pass. It
then becomes subject to three months of scrutiny by the European
Parliament and ministers. The whole process typically takes
about five months.  Hedegaard said she expected work on the regulation to be
finalized by the end of this year. European governments and the
European Commission, the EU regulatory arm, have come under
pressure from companies including  Germany ’s largest utility, EON
AG, and the region’s biggest oil company,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
to strengthen the ETS and spur investment in clean technologies.  “More and more member states, more and more ministers,
including finance ministers, have started to realize that it’s
also in their interest to have a robust carbon price, because it
means something for how much revenues they will have from
different carbon activities,” Hedegaard said.  Similar Solution  The commission proposal will offer a solution similar to
the one sought by the European Parliament to strengthen the EU
emissions trading system. The assembly wants to enshrine in a
planned law on energy efficiency the commission’s right to
propose a temporary set-aside of allowances in the ETS next
trading period, also known as Phase 3.  EU governments have opposed the amendment, objecting to a
link to the bloc’s carbon trading system in a law on a different
policy area. Denmark, the holder of the EU rotating presidency
that represents member states, and negotiators from the
Parliament are due to meet on June 13 for the last round of
talks to iron out differences on the law.  “My mandate on the  Energy Efficiency  Directive right now
doesn’t include the wording on the ETS,” Danish Climate
Minister Martin Lidegaard told reporters today. “I don’t
consider it as realistic to put it in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  