-- Eurocopter Joins Kenyan Probe of Helicopter Crash
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2012-06-11T14:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/eurocopter-joins-kenyan-probe-of-helicopter-crash.html
Eurocopter, a unit of  European
Aeronatic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) , said it is helping Kenyan
authorities investigate the cause of a helicopter crash that
killed the internal security minister and five others.  The incident involving Eurocopter’s AS350 B3e that occurred
in the Ngong Forest outside the capital, Nairobi, yesterday
claimed the lives of George Saitoti, who planned to run for the
presidency next year, assistant minister Orwa Ojode, two pilots
and two bodyguards. The cause of the crash is unknown and it’s
being treated as an accident, Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  said.  “Eurocopter has mobilized a team of experts to assist and
support the Kenyan authorities, which will conduct an
investigation into the accident,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  The flight left Wilson Airport in Nairobi at 8:32 a.m. in
good weather with some fog and visibility of 8 kilometers (5
miles), Kenyan Transport Minister Amos Kimunya told ministers
today in a live broadcast on KTN television station. The pilots
lost contact with the control tower at about 8:38 a.m., and four
minutes later the aircraft fell to the ground, he said.  The aircraft logged about 230 flight hours since it was
built last year and delivered to the Kenyan police in December,
Eurocopter said. Its last maintenance check was at the end of
May, the company said.  Saitoti, 66, a mathematics professor before he entered
politics, helped develop a plan to fight the Somali Islamist
militant group, al-Shabaab, which led to the deployment of
Kenyan soldiers in the neighboring country last year.  Somali Militants  Al-Shabaab, which is linked to al-Qaeda, is “very happy
and satisfied” with the deaths of Saitoti and Ojode, Sheikh Ali
Mohamud Rage, a spokesman, said in an audio recording on the
pro-al-Shaabab website Amiirnuur.  Saitoti was spearheading efforts to overhaul the police
department, which Berlin-based corruption watchdog  Transparency
International  described last year as the Kenyan state
institution most prone to  bribery .  In 2006, Saitoti was implicated by a commission of inquiry
into the so-called Goldenberg scandal, in which the Kenyan
government lost almost $1 billion in fraudulent exports of gold
and diamond jewelry. The  High Court  later ruled he shouldn’t be
charged in connection with the case.  Saitoti previously served as vice president and the
minister of finance, education and national planning minister,
and had business interests in real estate, agriculture and
tourism.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  