-- European Stocks Erase Gain in Final Hour; Banks Retreat
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-06-11T16:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/european-stock-futures-surge-on-spain-bailout-china-data.html
European stocks erased gains in the
final hour of trading, led by a selloff in Spanish and Italian
lenders, as optimism faded that  Spain ’s 100 billion euro ($125
billion) bank bailout will contain the sovereign debt crisis.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
erased gains after Fitch Ratings Services downgraded Spain’s two
biggest lenders. UniCredit SpA and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (MB)  both
tumbled more than 5 percent as bond yields rose.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
paced advancing shares.  The Stoxx 600 was little changed at 241.92 at the close of
trading after rallying as much as 1.9 percent earlier. The gauge
climbed 2.9 percent last week after  China  cut  interest rates  and
the  European Central Bank  said it’s ready to add more stimulus
if the economy worsens.  “We are not prepared to add risk at this stage,” said
 Bill O’Neill , chief investment officer for Europe, the  Middle
East  and  Africa  at Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, on Bloomberg
Television. “Getting the deal right in Spain is the key litmus
test of success with turning the euro crisis around.”  The Stoxx 600 initially rallied after Spain asked euro-area
governments for funds to bail out its banks, making it the
fourth member of the currency bloc to seek a rescue since the
debt crisis began almost three years ago.  Spanish Bailout  The Spanish state’s bank-rescue fund, known as FROB, will
receive the money and extend it to lenders. The sum is
equivalent to about 10 percent of Spain’s gross domestic
product. FROB debt counts as public debt, which amounted to 69
percent of GDP last year.  National benchmark indexes fell in 12 out of 18 western
European markets.  Germany ’s DAX climbed 0.2 percent, the U.K.’s
FTSE 100 slipped 0.1 percent and France’s CAC 40 slid 0.3
percent. Italy’s FTSE MIB dropped 2.8 percent, the biggest
decline since May 23.  In  Madrid , Santander slid 0.3 percent to 4.84 euros and
BBVA was unchanged at 5.15 euros after Fitch downgraded the
banks’ long-term issue default ratings to BBB+ from A with a
negative outlook.  The banks earlier rallied as much as 9.7 percent and 10
percent respectively on Spain’s bank bailout request. The amount
is about 2.7 times the funds deemed necessary by the
 International Monetary Fund  in a report released on June 8.  Banco Popular Espanol SA, which has seen its share price
cut in half this year, fell 1.9 percent to 1.69 euros.  Italian Banks  Italian lenders declined as the country’s 10-year bonds
reversed an earlier advance with investors betting the country
is now at the frontline of Europe’s financial woes.  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  dropped 8.8 percent to 2.48 euros, Mediobanca SpA slid 5.6
percent to 3.05 euros and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA dropped 5.9
percent to 1.03 euros.  “As we expect a further escalation of the crisis, we
believe Italy will probably need outside help at some point,”
Citigroup Inc. wrote in a report to clients today. Italy’s
fiscal position “is probably on an unsustainable long-term
path,” according to the note.  Volkswagen AG increased 1.3 percent to 123.45 euros and
Porsche SE rose 2.4 percent to 41.41 euros after VW was said to
have cleared an important hurdle toward buying the 50.1 percent
of the Porsche sports-car business that it doesn’t already own.  German authorities determined the deal may not face taxes,
according to people familiar with the matter. Still, some issues
have yet to be resolved, and the timing of the transaction is
uncertain, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  