-- Euro Strength Seen by Stiglitz Removing Greek Debt
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-06-11T12:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/euro-strength-seen-by-stiglitz-removing-greek-debt.html
Rather than a euro failure, an
orderly Greek exit from the currency has Nobel laureate  Joseph Stiglitz  and Nomura Holdings Inc. chief strategist  Jens Nordvig 
predicting a stronger and more stable monetary union.  While Societe Generale SA suggests that the euro might
break up because of the cost of Greece’s departure, the nation
accounts for just 2.3 percent of the 17-nation trading bloc’s
gross domestic product. It also has 356 billion euros ($449
billion), or 4.3 percent of the region’s total debt, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The area’s trade deficit last
year would have been a surplus without its weakest member,
according to European Union data.  “If you can weather the storm and haven’t put your bets
too short term, probably the euro is going to go up,” Stiglitz,
a professor at  Columbia University  and winner of the 2001 Nobel
Prize in economics, said in a June 4 interview at Bloomberg’s
New York headquarters. Stiglitz, 69, said losing Greece would
strengthen the bloc. “It’s likely there will survive some rump
version,” centered on  Germany , he said. If it includes
countries such as France, the “euro would likely appreciate.”  Foreign-exchange markets display little evidence of the
euro being dismembered. The currency traded at $1.2603 at 9:01
a.m. in  London , 53 percent above its record low of 82.30 U.S.
cents in October 2000. Bond yields of Austria, Belgium, Finland,
France, Germany and the Netherlands have fallen to record lows,
as investor demand for their debt increases. Removing  Greece 
from the euro would reduce the bloc’s debt-to-GDP ratio to 85.5
percent from 87.3 percent.  Spanish Bailout  Part of the reason is that Germany, the world’s fourth-
biggest economy, has posted a  trade surplus  every month since
May 1991 and has avoided falling into recession since 2009. It
is also the biggest contributor to the bailout fund, which has
rescued Greece, Portugal and Ireland, pledging 211 billion euros
to the European Financial Stability Facility.  Spain became the fourth euro member to seek a bailout since
the start of the region’s debt crisis more than two years ago
with a June 9 request for as much as 100 billion euros to rescue
its banks.  A euro without Greece might rise as much as 8 percent, said
Nordvig, a finalist for this year’s Wolfson Economics Prize, the
second-largest cash award in economics after the  Nobel Prize .  ‘Additional Integration’  “If a Greek exit is followed by additional integration in
the core, then the euro can recover,” Nordvig wrote in a June 8
e-mail. “If no additional integration is achieved, then capital
flight will escalate,” and the euro could fall to as low as
$1.10, he said.  The median estimate of 57 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg
is for the euro to trade at $1.26 by the end of the year, dip to
$1.25 in 2013, and then strengthen each year until it reaches
$1.30 in 2016.  The currency climbed as high as to $1.2671 today, the
strongest since May 23. It has still weakened 2.7 percent this
year. Against the yen, the shared currency strengthened 1
percent to 100.49 and is up 0.8 percent since December.  Hedge funds  and other  large speculators , which had reduced
trades that would profit from a drop in the euro to the lowest
levels since November, rebuilt them to a record high of 214,418
last week, figures released June 8 by the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.  Euro Undervalued  Declines this year have left the euro undervalued against
10 of 12 major counterparts, according to an Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development index that uses relative
costs of goods and services.  Greece is the main culprit. Had it not been part of the
currency union last year,  growth  for the 16 other nations would
have been 1.7 percent rather than 1.5 percent, according to data
from Bloomberg and Eurostat, the EU’s statistics office in
Luxembourg. The euro area had a trade deficit of 11 billion
euros in 2011, while it would have had a surplus of 9.8 billion
euros without Greece.  The area’s economy didn’t grow in the first three months,
avoiding a recession only through German expansion. Eight of the
economies contracted, with Greek GDP  falling  6.5 percent from a
year earlier. This was the country’s 13th contraction in the
past 14 quarters, the Athens-based Hellenic Statistical
Authority said June 8.  German Growth  Germany, which accounts for 27 percent of the bloc’s GDP,
 expanded  1.2 percent on a year-over-year basis and 0.5 percent
from the fourth quarter of last year, the Federal Statistics
Office reported in May.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said June 6
that policy makers discussed cutting  interest rates  to a record
low, fueling expectations they will act as soon as next month.  “We stand ready to act,” Draghi told reporters in
 Frankfurt  after the ECB left its benchmark rate at 1 percent.
The Group of Seven nations agreed to coordinate their response
to Europe’s turmoil on June 5.  Odds on a euro breakup by the end of this year rose to 39.4
percent as of June 1 from 22 percent on May 4, data compiled by
Dublin-based Intrade show. The probability of that happening by
the end of 2013 has risen to 57.6 percent.  Direct costs of such a change may reach 360 billion euros,
or 3.8 percent of euro-area GDP, sparking uncontrollable
contagion that may exhaust official funding sources,  Societe
Generale  said in a June 1 report.  The move would “demonstrate to financial markets that the
single currency was not irrevocable,” the bank said. “The
contagion from a Greek exit may therefore prove difficult to
contain.”  Breakup ‘Devastating’  European leaders have a three-month window to “correct
their mistakes and reverse the current trends,” billionaire
investor  George Soros  said in prepared remarks for a June 2
speech at the Festival of Economics in Italy, posted on his
website. “The likelihood is that the euro will survive, because
a breakup would be devastating not only for the periphery but
also for Germany.”  While a departure would generate “chaos” in the short
term, a newly traded drachma would be able to devalue against
other currencies and return Greece to growth and more robust
employment, Harvard University economist  Martin Feldstein  said
June 7 from Copenhagen on Bloomberg Television. Feldstein, a
former chief economic adviser to President  Ronald Reagan , said
in an interview in September that the single currency had proved
to be a “failure.”  Small Impact  Greece wouldn’t greatly impact the remaining economies,
Nordvig said. Private-sector bank losses would be much smaller
today than they would have been two years ago as exposure has
already been reduced through sales of Greek assets and the debt-
swap deal in March, his analysis shows. A 30 percent decline in
Greek imports from the remaining euro nations wouldn’t reduce
any of the remaining nations’ economies by more than 0.3
percent, Nordvig said.  The shock might also result in needed reforms, said Elwin de Groot, senior market economist at Rabobank Nederland in
Utrecht. It “would almost instantly make it one-minute-to-
midnight and force the European leaders to take the decisions
that have proved unpalatable so far, such as concrete steps
toward economic integration, fiscal unity and the issuance of
common debt,” he wrote in a June 7 e-mail.  ‘More Harmonized’  One of the two parties leading the polls before a Greek
election on June 17, Syriza, has said it won’t adhere to terms
agreed to in the nation’s EU and International Monetary Fund
bailouts, a move that may drive it to abandon the union.  “If Greece leaves because the country doesn’t want to
fulfill its conditions anymore, then it’s better for the rest of
the  euro zone  because the rest are more harmonized already and
has more policy direction all together than if it has Greece
inside it,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg
Bank in London and a former ECB official. Schulz is opposed to a
Greek departure and said it should be avoided if possible.  Since Greece touched off the European debt turmoil in 2009
by reporting higher budget deficit figures than originally
published, it has received two bailouts worth 240 billion euros
and carried out the biggest-ever sovereign bond restructuring,
which wiped away more than 100 billion euros of debt and half
the principal owed to investors.  Even after the debt restructuring, the nation’s ratio of
 debt to GDP  will be at 160 percent this year, down from 165
percent in 2011, the EU estimated in a March report.  While a Greek exit may cause some market turmoil at first,
as investor concern of contagion to other nations increases, it
will lead to a stronger and more stable currency bloc, according
to Michael Cirami, who helps manage $12 billion at Boston-based
Eaton Vance Corp.  “The euro zone looks like a problem area, and Greece
remaining in the group doesn’t make sense,” Cirami said in a
telephone interview May 30. “With respect to Greece leaving, I
certainly think the euro zone will be better off in the medium
to long term, but there will be a lot of pain in the short
term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 Dliedtka@bloomberg.net  