-- Evercore Shareholders Reject Proposed Stock Bonus Plan
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-06-11T17:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/evercore-shareholders-reject-proposed-stock-bonus-plan.html
Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  shareholders
rejected the firm’s stock incentive compensation plan after the
board of directors proposed increasing the number of available
shares by about half.  Of the 36 million votes cast, 57 percent opposed the
proposal, which recommended adding 11 million shares to the 20
million made available in the original 2006 plan, the New York-
based advisory firm said last week in a filing. About 11.3
million voted in favor, the filing shows.  Evercore, founded by former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary
 Roger Altman  and run by Chief Executive Officer Ralph Schlosstein, said an increase in available shares helps attract
and motivate employees and aligns their interests with
shareholders, according to a separate April filing. The
incentive vote was binding, unlike a “say on pay” referendum,
which the company holds every three years, the last being in
2011, according to the April filing.  “We recognize the potentially dilutive aspects of equity
grants,” Evercore said in the April filing. The firm’s share-
repurchase program “offsets the dilutive effect to our
stockholders from awards being granted under the plan.”  Dana Gorman, an outside spokesman for Evercore, said the
company has “sufficient equity under our current plan” to
“run the business and execute our strategy for the foreseeable
future.” The firm had 5.9 million shares available under the
2006 plan as of April 13, according to the filing.  Evercore  gained  1.9 percent to $24.27 at 12:15 p.m. in  New
York . Its stock has fallen 8.8 percent this year, compared with
a 5.2 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 