-- Ex-National Lampoon Chief Lied to Hide Fraud, U.S. Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   H o w a r d   S m u l e v i t z
-- 2012-06-11T16:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/ex-national-lampoon-ceo-durham-faces-trial-over-fair-finance-co-.html
Timothy S. Durham, a former
political fundraiser and chief executive officer of  National
Lampoon Inc. (NLMP) , told “lie after lie” to conceal a conspiracy to
defraud investors, a prosecutor said at the start of a trial.  Durham and two other men were indicted last year for
allegedly cheating 5,000 investors in a $200 million scheme
involving interest-bearing notes issued by Akron, Ohio-based
Fair Finance Co., which they controlled. A jury of seven women
and nine men, including alternates, heard opening statements
today in U.S. District Court in Indianapolis.  Durham and co-defendant James F. Cochran, aided by co-
defendant Rick Snow, made false and misleading statements about
Fair Finance’s financial condition, the prosecutor said.  “They hid what they had done,” Henry Van Dyck, a Justice
Department lawyer, told the jury. “They did it by telling lie
after lie after lie.”  The three men are charged with 10 counts of  wire fraud  and
one of  securities fraud , all punishable by as long as 20 years
in prison, and one count of conspiring to commit those crimes.  Durham is CEO of the Indianapolis-based leveraged buyout
firm Obsidian Enterprises Inc. He resigned his National Lampoon
post in January. That company isn’t mentioned in the indictment.  Durham, a Republican Party fundraiser, has contributed
hundreds of thousands of dollars in political campaign funds,
most of that to Indiana Republicans including Governor  Mitch Daniels , according to state campaign finance records.  Chairman, CFO  Cochran was Fair Finance’s chairman, and Snow served as
chief financial officer. The three pleaded not guilty.  “Rather than using the funds that Fair raised from
investors, primarily for the purpose of financing receivables,”
Durham and Cochran “caused Fair to extend loans to themselves,
to their associates and to businesses they owned,” according to
a revised indictment issued in February.  Durham’s attorney,  John L. Tompkins , said that what the
government called a conspiracy was actually a series of mistakes
made as a result of the financial crisis.  “Bad business judgments are not crimes,” Tompkins told
the jury, describing an atmosphere of “panic and fear and
desperation” at the company.  Snow’s lawyer,  Jeffrey A. Baldwin , said his client was
simply doing his job in covering the company’s debts.  “He had no ownership, no partnership in anything,”
Baldwin said. Cochran’s attorney didn’t make an opening
statement, reserving the chance to do that later.  Fair Finance’s Business  Durham and Cochran acquired Fair Finance through a holding
company in 2002. Operating in  Ohio  since 1934, Fair Finance
provided liquidity to businesses by purchasing their accounts
receivable at a discount, according to the indictment.  Fair Finance raised money by selling interest-bearing
certificates to investors.  By February 2005, as Fair Finance continued selling the
certificates, it had shifted from providing commercial financing
to making loans to its principals, their associates, Obsidian
and other entities they controlled, according to the indictment.  Fair Finance closed after a November 2009 raid by the
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation. In February 2010, its creditors
forced it into involuntary bankruptcy in Akron.  Donald Fair, the son of the company’s founder who sold the
business to Cochran and Durham in 2002, was the prosecution’s
first witness.  Fair told the jury that his company’s objective was to
offer investors a rate of return that “wouldn’t be so high that
people would wonder what we were up to.”  Redemption Rates  Redemption rates during his family’s ownership remained
from 5 to 15 percent, he testified, and many investors who had
redeemed their notes returned and invested again.  Fair said he continued to receive company balance sheets
after the sale and observed investor interest rates rising while
his former business was making loans to companies he hadn’t
heard of.  Asked by Cochran’s lawyer William H. Dazey if he ever
suspected fraud, Fair said he had not.  The case is U.S. v.  Durham, 11-cr-00042, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Indiana  (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Smulevitz at Indianapolis federal court
at   shsmulevitz@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  