-- Texas Instruments Forecasts Sales That May Beat Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-06-11T22:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/texas-instruments-forecasts-sales-that-may-beat-some-estimates.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
maker of analog semiconductors, forecast second-quarter earnings
that may top some analysts’ estimates.  Profit will be 32 cents to 36 cents a share on revenue of
$3.28 billion to $3.42 billion, the Dallas-based company said
today in a statement. Analysts on average had predicted earnings
of 34 cents on sales of $3.36 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s analog chips perform electronic functions in
devices ranging from washing machines to space hardware, making
its earnings an indicator of demand across the broader economy.
Texas Instruments hasn’t yet felt any slowdown in orders due to
worsening economic indicators, said Tore Svanberg, an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  San Francisco .  “Bookings were still pretty strong in April and May,”
said Svanberg, who recommends buying the shares. “The bigger
question for me right now is are we going to get a correction in
the second half?”  Texas Instruments  shares  climbed as high as $28.04 in
extended trading following the announcement. They had earlier
fallen 3.1 percent to $27.65 at the close in  New York . The stock
has fallen 5 percent this year. The company will report second-
quarter results on July 25.  ‘Trending Well’  “Our business is generally tracking well,” Texas
Instruments Vice President  Ron Slaymaker  said on a conference
call with analysts. Order are “trending well this quarter and
we expect both orders and backlog to grow sequentially.”  The broader industrial market is continuing to recover and
an increase in the deployment of mobile-phone base stations in
 North America  is driving demand for communications components,
he said. Demand from computer makers “remains mixed.”  While the company’s customers have stopped reducing their
stockpiles of unused parts, they are not increasing inventory,
Slaymaker said.  Texas Instruments had predicted profit of 30 cents to 38
cents on sales of $3.22 billion to $3.48 billion in April,
citing an increase in customer orders for components ahead of a
projected pickup in demand.  Avnet Inc. (AVT) , Arrow Electronics Inc. and WPG Holdings Ltd.,
three of Texas Instruments’ largest customers, are all
distributors of electronic components. They account for a
combined 20 percent of the company’s sales, according to supply-
chain data  compiled by Bloomberg .  Nokia Oyj is Texas Instruments’ largest customer, according
to the data. Texas Instruments was once the biggest maker of
digital signal processors, or DSPs, for mobile phones through
its relationship with Nokia. The Finnish phonemaker has decided
to diversify by using other suppliers, and Texas Instruments is
exiting the baseband DSP business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  