-- Edwards’s Sapien Trial Raises Bias Question Among FDA Staff
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-06-11T20:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/fda-staff-raises-questions-about-edwards-s-sapien-over-surgery.html
The way  Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW) 
selected and categorized patients in a trial for its Sapien
 heart valve  may have been biased, making an evaluation of the
device as an alternative to open-heart surgery difficult, U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  staff said.  The transcatheter heart valve, which can be implanted with
minimal incisions, worked as well as an operation yet showed
higher rates of strokes in the study, the staff said in a  report 
posted online today. The staff said inconsistency in the trial
“makes evaluation of these endpoint results difficult.”  “Therefore, the FDA believes that continued long-term
follow-up is warranted in a post-approval study should this
device be approved,” the staff wrote.  Advisers to the FDA meet June 13 to decide whether Sapien,
currently used on heart patients who don’t qualify for surgery,
should get expanded approval for people who are high-risk yet
capable of handling an operation. The transcatheter valve market
may total $2.5 billion in the U.S., said  Jason Mills , a San
Francisco-based analyst with Canaccord Adams Inc., said.  Edwards fell 0.3 percent to $88 at the close of trading.  The initial FDA approval of Sapien in November boosted
Edwards’s transcatheter valve sales 67 percent in the first
quarter to $122 million, Michael Mussallem, chairman and chief
executive officer of the  Irvine , California-based company, said
in an April 24 earnings call.  Patient Imbalance  The device is meant to treat aortic senosis. The
debilitating condition is caused by a narrowing valve that
restricts the ability of blood to enter the aorta, the main
artery that carries blood from the heart, according to the
 National Institutes of Health .  FDA staff said a large imbalance of people in the surgery
group withdrew from the trial or died before the procedure,
creating the potential for selection bias. Categorizing of
patients who were eligible for surgery versus those who weren’t
at different trial sites also appeared to vary and 30 percent of
patient enrollment was by researchers who had a financial
conflict of interest, FDA staff said.  Stroke Risk  Patients who used Sapien experienced double the stroke risk
in the first 30 days after the implant procedure, compared with
those who had open-heart surgery, FDA staff said. The stroke
rate was increased through the year of follow-up for patients
who received the device through an incision in the chest
compared to those who had Sapien implanted using an incision in
the leg. Early  research  found Sapien caused more strokes in
patients after a year than surgery, yet after another year
 stroke rates  evened out, according to Edwards.  Edwards proposed a post-approval study to follow patients
in the trial and creating a registry for new patients, according
to the FDA. Agency staff said the patients already in the trial
should be followed for at least five years.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which
oversees health-care plans for the poor, disabled and elderly,
said May 1 it would pay for the surgery to insert the valve
provided at least two cardiac surgeons evaluate the patient and
determine the procedure is appropriate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  