-- Lockhart Says Lower Yields Bolster Case for No New Action
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-06-11T20:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/fed-s-lockhart-says-u-s-recovery-to-be-slow-drawn-out.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said falling Treasury yields take
pressure off the central bank for further action as policy
makers prepare for a meeting next week.  Lockhart, in a speech in Chicago, said recent U.S.
economic data indicate the recovery may be losing steam, and
that policy makers will need to take more steps to stimulate the
economy if it becomes clear growth is slowing.  “I don’t think any of the options should be taken off the
table under the current circumstances,” Lockhart told reporters
after the speech. “But I am not convinced at this moment that
the circumstances quite yet call for additional action.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  meets June 19-20 to
decide on policy with May’s unemployment rising to 8.2 percent
and last month’s jobs creation the least in a year. Fed Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  said last week that “stalled”
improvement in the labor market and weak financial conditions
could call for more accommodation.  Lockhart, who votes on the FOMC this year, said he would go
into next week’s sessions with an “open mind” to review the
Fed’s “very thorough” staff analysis and other participants’
views, though he was not ready to back additional action today.  Yields on U.S. Treasuries have fallen in response to the
European debt crisis, with the U.S. seen as a “safe haven,”
Lockhart also said. “It does in some respects take the pressure
off to do something about financial conditions per se,”
Lockhart said.  10-Year Yield  The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield fell four basis points
to 1.59 percent in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The yield earlier rose as much as nine basis points to
1.73 percent, the highest since May 30.  Some change in communications policy by the Fed is another
option, with St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard ’s idea of a
monetary policy report “a possibility,” Lockhart said. While
the FOMC releases economic and interest rate projections of
individual members, a “more holistic” communications on the
economic outlook may be beneficial, he said.  “The indicators of economic strength so far in 2012 have
been underwhelming,” Lockhart said in today’s speech to the
 Tennessee  Bankers Association in Chicago that repeated two
speeches last week. “I expect the recovery process to be slow
and drawn out. I think the most reasonable expectation is
moderate growth, a slow and possibly halting decline of
unemployment, with inflation staying close” to 2 percent.  Spanish Bailout  Lockhart departed from his written remarks to praise the
Spanish bank bailout agreed to over the weekend as a positive
step, though he said it didn’t change his overall view that the
European crisis continues to weigh on U.S. growth.  The rescue is “good news and it alleviates slightly some
of the concern,” Lockhart said. “Nonetheless, there are many
issues ahead the Europeans are going to face.”  Lockhart, 65, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district
includes  Alabama , Florida,  Georgia , and portions of  Louisiana ,
 Mississippi , and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  