-- FHA’s Galante Says Delinquent-Loan Buyers Could Become Landlords
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-11T16:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/fha-s-galante-says-delinquent-loan-buyers-could-become-landlords.html
Investors who bid on Federal Housing
Administration pools of delinquent loans could end up converting
some of the properties into rental housing, FHA Acting
Commissioner Carol Galante said in an interview.  The FHA said last week it will begin quarterly sales of
about 5,000 defaulted loans received from lenders in exchange
for insurance payouts, expanding a pilot program started last
year. The government mortgage insurer, which already has 35,000
repossessed homes on its books, is looking to sell loans at a
discount to keep more properties from going into foreclosure.  About a third of foreclosed properties on the market are
owned by the FHA or government-controlled finance companies
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac . Regulators put out a call last year
for input on how to structure bulk sales of real-estate-owned
properties, or REOs, to encourage their conversion into rentals.  Fannie Mae  is auctioning properties that have been
repossessed to investors who are required to rent them. The FHA
auctions may encourage similar conversion of seized properties,
Galante said yesterday.  “We really see this as our contribution to the REO-to-
rental type of solution,” she said.  Under the FHA program, investors must first try to work
with borrowers to make loans current. If they do foreclose, the
investors can’t sell more than 50 percent of the properties in
their pools and will be encouraged to rent out repossessed homes
that they aren’t allowed to sell.  “This isn’t a quick flip,” Galante said. “For the
majority of the pool, somehow or other they will be in a
stabilized situation. That’s the goal.”  Neighborhood Stabilization  The FHA will pool loans with characteristics that would
make them eligible for other federal aid, such as funds for
neighborhood stabilization, in the hope that investors will use
them as part of larger community development plans, she said.  Galante said the FHA is also looking into allowing REO
investors to qualify for a program that allows homebuyers to
finance an additional amount beyond the purchase price to pay
for repairs. The so-called 203(k) loans are now available only
to borrowers who plan to live in the houses they buy.  The amount the FHA will recoup from the loan sales is
greater than what it would lose in foreclosures, according to
agency officials. Each foreclosed property on the agency’s books
costs an average of $28.78 a day to maintain and market.  The agency, an arm of the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development, has insured more than 34 million mortgages
since it was created in 1934. It is financed by the mortgage
insurance premiums it charges to borrowers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  