-- Finland Says Europe Dodging Total Mess as Spain Gets Aid
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-06-11T07:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/finland-says-europe-dodging-total-mess-as-spain-gets-aid.html
Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said Europe has managed to avert a deepening of the
debt crisis as he prepares to explain Spain’s bailout to
taxpayers at home.  “In politics, it’s not always easy, but we have to be
ready to take responsible actions even if they are difficult to
understand, and they are very difficult,” Katainen told
reporters yesterday at a meeting of Nordic prime ministers in
Aa, a fishing village on the Lofoten Islands in northern  Norway .
“So far we have managed to avoid a total mess, even though
decisions have been very difficult.”  Spain this weekend became the fourth euro member to seek a
bailout as the bloc’s finance ministers agreed to provide as
much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion) to save the country’s
banks. Katainen, whose government will demand collateral if the
loan is transferred via  Europe ’s temporary rescue fund, has
struggled to win backing in his six-party coalition to endorse
more aid. While Europe’s failure to stem the crisis is
lamentable, withdrawing support isn’t an option, he said.  “It is frustrating for ordinary citizens, but it is also
frustrating for the politicians,” Katainen said. “But we
always have to choose the smaller risk. We have to do whatever
it takes to safeguard the stability within the euro area.”  Bond Reaction  Yields on the 10-year bonds of Spain,  Italy ,  Portugal  and
Greece eased today. The yield on Spain’s 5.85 percent note due
2022 fell 17 basis points to 6.05 percent. Borrowing costs on
similar-maturity German debt rose five basis points to 1.38
percent. Finnish 10-year yields also gained five basis points to
1.71 percent.  The cost of euro-area bailouts has ballooned since the
bloc’s debt crisis started at the end of 2009. The rescue
package for the currency area’s fourth-largest economy adds to
the 386 billion euros in pledges to  Greece , Ireland and Portugal
that European governments and the International Monetary Fund
have made since 2010. Spain is twice the size of those three
economies combined.  Euro-area leaders haven’t yet decided whether the temporary
European Financial Stability Facility or its permanent
successor, the European Stability Mechanism, will be used to pay
for Spain’s loan. Granting the bailout “will take several
weeks, as we need a very precise analysis on the condition of
Spanish banks,” Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said
on June 9. “It’s possible that the recapitalization will be
organized through the permanent mechanism,” she said.  Repayment Rights  Finland , one of only four AAA rated nations left in the 17-
member euro area, demands collateral for loans to the temporary
fund because the vehicle doesn’t give its creditors preferred
status. Should the ESM provide Spain’s loan, its contributors
would be senior to holders of outstanding government debt,
though they’d be junior to the  International Monetary Fund . The
ESM is due to become operational next month.  The collateral clause was pushed by Urpilainen, who leads
the Social Democrat Party. Voters in Finland, which kept its
deficit within the European Union’s 3 percent threshold even as
its economy contracted 8.4 percent in 2009, rewarded groups
critical of Europe’s rescue mechanism in April 2011 elections,
when the anti-euro “The Finns” party become the nation’s
third-largest.  ‘Frustrating’  Katainen underlined his government’s commitment to Europe’s
crisis-fighting efforts as the turmoil threatens to splinter the
13-year-old region. Pledging support to Spain before Greece’s
June 17 elections was crucial, he said. The currency bloc’s most
indebted nation faces the prospect of exiting the euro should
anti-austerity parties form a government in  Athens .  “Of course it is always frustrating to see that the crisis
will continue no matter what you are doing,” Katainen said.  Spain’s loan will be channeled through its state-run FROB
bank-rescue fund, and will add to the country’s debt, which the
European Commission estimates reached 68.5 percent of gross
domestic product last year. Should Spain request the maximum
amount, it would add about 10 percentage points to that number.  Inside the euro area, Finland shares its top  credit rating 
with  Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The other
countries in the monetary union are  Austria ,  Belgium , Cyprus,
 Estonia ,  France , Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta, Portugal,
Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.  Katainen distinguished between  Spain , which he said had
shown commitment to budget deficit reduction, and euro nations
in a worse state.  “The Spanish government has done a good job bringing the
deficit down and strengthening the competitiveness,” Katainen
said in response to Bloomberg questions after the press
conference. “The banks have caused a threat to the work that
the government has done. Now it is important to do whatever it
takes to help the Spanish government to solve the banking
recapitalization problem in order to avoid serious trouble with
the government itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  