-- Finland Needs Flexible Policy to Tackle Crisis Slump, IMF Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-06-11T12:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/finland-needs-flexible-policy-to-tackle-crisis-slump-imf-says.html
Finland’s key challenge is to
protect its economy as Europe’s debt crisis saps momentum in the
northernmost euro member, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “Spill over to Finland could be significant given its
highly open economy and trade and financial linkages with
Europe,” the Washington-based group said in an Article IV
concluding statement. “The key immediate policy concern is to
cushion the downturn, including through a nimble fiscal policy,
while mitigating any lingering vulnerabilities.”  Europe’s debt crisis has caused economic growth to slow on
falling demand for exports, which account for about 40 percent
of the only Nordic euro member’s economy. A third of Finland
sales abroad are in the single-currency area, and risks for the
country are now “tilted to the downside,” the IMF said,
reiterating a growth forecast of about 0.5 percent for 2012.  Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s six-party cabinet has kept
the  budget deficit  in line with the European Union’s rules. Next
year, spending will decline and taxes will increase by a total
2.7 billion euros ($3.4 billion). The government is seeking to
halt debt growth by 2015 to ensure its AAA credit rating.  The IMF “concurs that a broadly neutral 2012 fiscal policy
is appropriate, avoiding pro-cyclical withdrawal of support to
the economy while preventing damage to long-term sustainability
prospects,” according to today’s report.  Government Debt  Finland’s 2012 government debt at an estimated 50.5 percent
of gross domestic product has risen from 33.9 percent in 2008,
according to the European Commission. The 17-member euro area
had average government debt of 91.8 percent of GDP last year the
Brussels-based organization said.  The yield on Finland’s 10-year benchmark notes rose 3 basis
points to 1.68 percent today and spread to similar-maturity
German bunds widened to 31 basis points from a low of 27 basis
points on June 1.  Private consumption is underpinning the Finnish economy as
flexible layoff plans have slowed unemployment growth, allowing
households to keep spending.  The country’s financial sector, where Nordea Bank AB,
Danske Bank A/S and the OP-Pohjola Group operate, “has remained
generally sound,” the IMF said. “Bank capital ratios are
comfortably above minimum requirements and non-performing loans
are manageable,” the group said.  Inside the euro area, Finland shares its top  credit rating 
with Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The other
countries in the monetary union are  Austria ,  Belgium , Cyprus,
 Estonia , France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta,  Portugal ,
Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  