-- Florida Sues U.S. Over Database to Verify Citizenship
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-11T22:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/florida-sues-u-s-over-database-to-verify-citizenship.html
Florida  sued the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security over access to a database to verify the
citizenship of residents as the state seeks to purge non-
citizens from its voter rolls.  The complaint, filed today in federal court in Washington,
claims Florida’s Department of State received information last
year from the state’s Department of Highway Safety and Motor
Vehicles showing that non-citizens may be registered to vote in
Florida.  The Department of Homeland Security has failed to provide
information from a database -- the Systematic Alien Verification
for Entitlements Program -- that Florida claims will permit it
to verify citizenship and immigration status of individuals,
according to the complaint.  “We can’t let the federal government delay our efforts to
uphold the integrity of Florida elections any longer,” Florida
Secretary of State Ken Detzner said in an e-mailed statement.
The lawsuit was filed to “ensure the law is carried out and we
are able to meet our obligation to keep the voter rolls accurate
and current.”  The U.S.  Justice Department  warned Florida in a May 31
letter that the state’s program to identify ineligible voters
may violate federal law, including one aimed at reviewing voter
limits in states such as Florida with a history of racial
discrimination. The state responded by saying the initiative is
valid.  Romney, Obama  Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican who signed the
registration law and ordered the purge, has defended both as a
means of fighting voter fraud. Florida Democrats have assailed
both as an effort to give presumptive Republican presidential
nominee Mitt Romney an advantage over President  Barack Obama , a
Democrat, in a swing state four months before the election.  Matthew Chandler, a Department of  Homeland Security 
spokesman, said the agency doesn’t respond to inquiries about
pending litigation.  The case is Florida Department of State v. U.S. Department
of Homeland Security, 12-cv-00960, U.S. District Court, District
of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  