-- Forest Cuts Forecast as Copycats Take More Lexapro Sales
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-11T20:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/forest-laboratories-cuts-forecast-as-copycats-win-drug-sales.html
Forest (FRX)  Laboratories Inc. cut its
fiscal 2013  earnings  forecast because sales of Lexapro, a pill
to treat depression, are being lost to  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s generic version.  Profit for the year ending in March will be 65 to 80 cents
a share, 25 cents less than previously forecast, New York-based
Forest said today in a statement. Forest declined 3.5 percent to
$34.43 at the close in  New York , the biggest single-day decline
since August.  Forest lost the right to sell Lexapro exclusively after its
patent for the drug expired in September. According to the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration , Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva
and Forest will split the market for a six-month period that
began in March, with Forest also licensing to  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  an
“authorized generic” to compete against Forest’s and Teva’s
pills. After that, more copycat makers can start selling.  Forest said it overestimated how many pills it would sell
and how much Teva would trim prices to win a share of the
market. The company projects  sales  of Lexapro will fall to $215
million this fiscal year rather than to $250 million. Projected
royalty income from the authorized generic version will be $60
million, down from an expected $115 million.  Forest also said it would stop shipping Levothroid, used to
treat low levels of thyroid hormone. The company licenses the
drug from another manufacturer. The FDA notified the maker that
the agency had “regulatory and quality concerns,” leading to a
shutdown of the plant where the pills are made, Forest said.  “Pending further details Forest has discontinued shipping
Levothroid to its customers and does not know how long the
product will be unavailable,” the company said.  Should the disruption go on “for an extended period of
time” or if a recall of the medicine occurs, earnings would be
reduced by 3 cents a share, Forest said.  Mylan, based in Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , fell 2 percent to
$21.11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  