-- Fracking in Ohio Sparks Real Estate Rebound: Mortgages
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-06-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/fracking-in-ohio-sparks-real-estate-rebound-mortgages.html
The clamor of bulldozers on a patch
of former farmland in rural Carroll County,  Ohio  makes Glenn
Enslen, the county’s economic development director, feel “like
an eight-year-old kid on Christmas morning,” he said.  The 330-acre tract of Appalachian property is being
transformed into an industrial park. The first tenant will be
 MRC Global Inc. (MRC) , a Houston-based pipe and valve supplier that
will serve Ohio’s emerging oil and natural-gas industry.  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is bringing new
development to the Midwest, creating demand for commercial real
estate in the region even as landlords struggle to pay off
earlier property loans.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-
largest U.S. natural-gas supplier, has acquired $2 billion in
land leases comprising 1.35 million acres in Ohio and
contributing to the beginnings of an economic recovery in the
state. The company has leased or bought real estate in towns
including Canton and St. Clairsville, according to Pete
Kenworthy, a company spokesman.  “Thank God for the oil and gas business,” said Tim
Putnam, president of Putnam Properties Inc., a commercial real
estate company based in Canton, about 60 miles south of
 Cleveland . “It’s created a lot of optimism among people that
live here.”  Ohio, which had the seventh-highest commercial property
delinquency rate in the country in December, according to
Moody’s Investors Service, is already showing signs of
improvement. The delinquency rate on commercial mortgages
packaged and sold as bonds in Ohio dropped to 8.74 percent in
June from 11.28 percent a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Late Payments  Late payments for commercial loans in Youngstown, about
halfway between Cleveland and Pittsburgh, declined to 5.69
percent in June from 7.75 percent a year earlier.  The effect of the new investment isn’t yet evident in the
Midwest more broadly. For the region that includes Ohio,
 Wisconsin , Illinois, Michigan and  Indiana , debt at least 30 days
delinquent jumped to a record 11.26 percent as of June 1 from
10.44 percent a year earlier, according to Trepp LLC. The rate
was 9.68 percent in June 2010. The U.S. rate in May was a record
10 percent, the New York-based mortgage data firm said.  Ohio stands to benefit from the Utica Shale, a geological
formation that may hold as much as 5.5 billion barrels of oil
and 15.7 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Since December
2009, 236 drilling permits have been issued in the Shale, with
72 wells drilled as of the week of May 27, according to Ohio
Department of Natural Resources data. About 35 percent of those
permits were in Carroll County.  Energy Production  Energy production in the state may add $4.9 billion to
Ohio’s economy in 2014, according to a study by researchers from
Cleveland State University,  Ohio State University  and Marietta
College. The study was sponsored by the Ohio Shale Coalition, a
group of businesses and chambers of commerce that support  energy
industry  growth in the state.  Horizontal drilling and fracking, the techniques being
applied to the Utica Shale, reversed decades-long declines in
U.S. oil and gas production, according to the Energy Department
in  Washington . Crude oil output last year was 15 percent higher
than 2008, when production touched a 62-year low. Last year’s
gas production was a record 28.6 trillion cubic feet, up 17
percent in a decade.  Ohio Jobs  Estimates for how many  Ohio jobs  will come from the
industry’s growth vary widely. More than 204,000 jobs will be
created directly or indirectly by the oil and gas business by
2015 in the state, according to a study last year by Kleinhenz &
Associates for the Ohio Oil and Gas Energy Education Program, an
industry-funded group. A December report by Ohio State
University put the estimate at 20,000 jobs over a four-year
period.  The economic benefits of oil and gas drilling are spreading
from places such as Carroll County northwest to Canton and
northeast to Youngstown as hotels increase occupancy and energy
companies set up operations.  “We are getting a recovery and that’s the bright side,”
said George Zeller, an independent economic research analyst in
Cleveland, said of Ohio’s economy. “The downside is the
recovery is way too slow.”  Youngstown was once a booming city at the center of the
 steel industry .  Almost everyone in the area had a link to steel, said
Anthony Cafaro Jr., 37, co-president of Cafaro Co., a closely
held owner and manager of 30 million square feet of commercial
real estate in 11 states.  “There wasn’t anyone that wasn’t impacted by the downfall
of the steel industry here,” Cafaro said in an interview. “My
generation, unfortunately, a large percentage has left the area
and may never come back.”  Lost Population  Youngstown has lost more than half the population of
168,330 it had in 1950, culminating in Youngstown Sheet & Tube’s
announced shutdowns in 1977. The city had 66,982 residents in
2010, according to the Census Bureau. Over the past 22 years,
the Youngstown area’s unemployment rate rose as high as 13.5
percent in 2009. It was 7.8 percent as of April, the latest data
available from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Any economic activity in areas like Youngstown and
Steubenville, which were hit hard during the recession, will be
welcome.  “They tended to suffer a great deal more than the rest of
the state,” said Jim Newton, chief economic adviser to
Columbus-based Commerce National Bank. “There, even a modest
amount of activity over a period of years will seem like a
godsend.”  Youngstown Production  France’s  Vallourec SA (VK) , which makes products used for a
number of industries, including energy, will produce steel tubes
in Youngstown this year at its new $650 million mill and create
350 jobs, according to Vallourec. The tubes will be used for
fracking, which injects water, sand and chemicals underground to
free trapped gas.  A unit of  Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT) , a Geneva-based
oilfield services company, bought a 153,708-square-foot building
and more than 20 acres of land in Youngstown in April for $3.4
million, according to commercial property broker NAI Spring of
Canton.  “The business has been phenomenal over the last six
months,” said Dan Spring, principal of NAI Spring. “The market
doesn’t have any product left.”  Risks abound for the new industry, which has grown as the
price of crude oil make it worthwhile to undertake more
expensive fracking.  Crude Prices  A significant amount of oil assets across  North America 
become uneconomic when West Texas intermediate crude falls below
$65 a barrel, said Manuj Nikhanj, head of energy research at
Investment Technology Group Inc. in Calgary.  Chesapeake has the most rigs running in Ohio of any energy
company, Nikhanj said. The company has a joint venture with
France’s  Total SA (FP)  in the Utica Shale under which Total has
committed to pay $1.4 billion of Chesapeake’s drilling costs.  “There’s still questions over what the economics are going
to look like,” Nikhanj said. “That would relate to anyone
active in the region.”  Chesapeake agreed to sell pipeline assets in three
transactions of more than $4 billion and had two directors
tender their resignations after shareholders rejected their re-
election on June 8. The company has come under criticism as gas
prices plunged to a 10-year low and revelations that Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  had intertwined his
personal business with that of the company’s key financiers.  The company has 337,481 net acres for sale in Ohio. That
acreage is “outside its core focus area” and “higher risk,”
Nikhanj said. Chesapeake will remain active in the region
because of the venture with  Total (TOT) , Nikhanj said.  Youngstown Changing  Downtown Youngstown is starting to change. New businesses
are opening, including Joe Maxx Coffee Co., a coffee bar run by
Mike Avey, 50, who grew up in nearby Warren. Avey said 20
percent to 30 percent of his customers are affiliated with
companies in the energy industry.  “None of these people were here a year, a year-and-a-half
ago,” Avey said.  Hotel revenue rose 24 percent and occupancy gained 19.6
percent in the Youngstown area in April compared with a year
earlier, according to data from Smith Travel Research Inc.,
based in Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  “The shale is just part of the puzzle,” said Michael
Moliterno, the general manager of the  Holiday Inn  in Boardman,
which is about five miles from Youngstown. “Overall we’re doing
well.”  Shale Tavern  South of Youngstown, business is surging at Michal Naffah’s
Days Inn in Lisbon. Naffah, who bought the hotel more than three
years ago, said business is 10 times what it was when he
acquired it. Occupancy is 80 percent, he said.  When he acquired the property he also bought an adjacent
restaurant and kept it shuttered. He reopened the restaurant at
the end of last year. His wife came up with the new name: Shale
Tavern & Grille.  “When everything started to hit with the shale boom,
that’s when we opened,” Naffah said.  Cafaro Co. announced plans in May to build a 103-room
Residence Inn by Marriott at its Eastwood Mall Complex in Niles,
about 12 miles from Youngstown. The project in Trumbull County
had already been planned before the rise of the energy industry
in the area.  “Things just seem to have come out well in terms of
timing,” Cafaro said. “The economy, after literally decades of
stagnation and some period of decline, we’re now seeing an
upswing.”  Leasing Property  Trumbull County’s economy likely will get a boost from
landowners leasing property.  BP Plc (BP) , Europe’s second-biggest oil
company, agreed to lease 84,000 acres in Trumbull in March.  “For the first time in my lifetime -- people are starting,
and they’re just starting -- they’re focusing on the positive,”
Cafaro said. “There is a growing percentage of people who are
seeing the glass is half full.”  MRC Global, which will occupy the first parcel in the 330-
acre site in Carroll County, plans to lease a 15,000-square-foot
warehouse and have a 13-acre pipe yard there, according to Will
James, the company’s vice president of corporate development and
 investor relations .  These developments are transforming the area, said Enslen,
the county’s economic development chief.  “It’s exciting,” he said. “It’s going to change the
entire face of this community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  