-- France Frustrated by England’s Defense in Euro 2012 Opener
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-11T22:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/france-left-frustrated-by-england-s-defense-in-euro-2012-opener.html
England players traded high fives
after a 1-1 draw with France in soccer’s European Championship.
The French were less satisfied.  Joleon Lescott headed England into a 30th-minute lead
before his Manchester City teammate,  Samir Nasri , struck back
eight minutes later with a shot from outside the box. After
that, it was a case of France dominating possession and England
retreating to the edge of its penalty area.  “If you’re saying to me now, ‘Would you have taken a
point?’ Yeah, we probably would’ve taken a point,” England
midfielder  Scott Parker  said in an interview after the game at
the Donbass Arena in Donetsk, Ukraine.  France controlled possession for 60 percent of the game and
Lescott’s score was England’s only shot on goal, compared with
15 for two-time champion France.  England entered the game without leading striker  Wayne Rooney , who is serving a two-game suspension. Coach  Roy Hodgson ,
who’s been in the job for 40 days, also had several injury
withdrawals before the competition. Parker said the result gives
the team a platform to build on ahead of its second Group D
match against Sweden, which lost 2-1 to co-host Ukraine in its
opener yesterday.  France’s next match is against Ukraine in Donetsk on June
15, the same day England plays Sweden in Kiev.  Many on the French team, which is unbeaten in 22 games,
felt they could have gotten more out of a match they controlled
after a poor start.  The disappointed French players had to be reminded by
manager  Laurent Blanc  to acknowledge a small band of fans who
traveled to the eastern Ukraine in support of the squad.  “When we scored, I thought we could win, in fact I thought
we were going to win,” France midfielder Hatem  Ben Arfa , who
played the last 10 minutes of the game, said in an interview.  Slow Goal Kicks  Ben Arfa said he sensed England’s appetite for a tie by the
length of time goalkeeper  Joe Hart  took over his goal kicks.  “A draw was very good for them,” he said. “We would’ve
been happy to have won, but it’s still a good point.”  Lescott shook off Alou Diarra and headed a Steven Gerrard
free kick past French goalkeeper  Hugo Lloris  for his team’s
goal. Five minutes later, Diarra wasted an opportunity from a
similar opening, heading a Nasri free kick straight at Hart.  Nasri tied the game six minutes before halftime. He
collected Patrice Evra’s pass and hit a low right-foot shot from
the edge of the area as the England defense backed away.  “Hart knows me from  Manchester City  and he knows I usually
open my feet,” Nasri said. “This time I closed my body and it
went in.”  Blanc has turned France into contenders two years after the
team failed to make it out of the group stage of the  World Cup ,
where players refused to train for former coach  Raymond Domenech . Hodgson hopes in time he’ll manage the same feat with
England.  England’s Needs  “You don’t become a really good team in three matches and
10 training sessions,” the England coach said. “The French
have gone 22 games unbeaten and they’ve not done that overnight.
It’s been people playing together, getting to know each other’s
games. The longer we play together, the better we’ll become,
too.”  Parker said  England  has to learn how to improve offensively
and maintain possession.  “I understand you’re not going to win tournaments on the
back foot, or dogging it out like we did today, but listen it’s
a good start,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Donbass Arena in Ukraine via the London
newsroom on   tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  