-- French Factory Output, Italian GDP Drop During Crisis
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-06-11T11:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/french-factory-output-italian-gdp-drop-during-crisis-economy.html
French factory output dropped and
 Italy ’s economy contracted as consumers, businesses and
governments across  Europe  retrenched during the debt crisis.  French  manufacturing production  fell 0.7 percent in April
from March, Paris-based statistics office Insee said today,
adding to concerns Europe’s second-largest economy may struggle
to revive growth as the crisis deepens. Italy’s economy, the
region’s third largest, shrank 0.8 percent in the first quarter
as household spending and exports declined, Rome-based
statistics institute Istat said in its final report on gross
domestic product.  The data underline the euro area’s faltering growth
prospects more than two years into a sovereign debt crisis that
over the weekend forced the region’s finance ministers to agree
to provide as much as 100 billion euros ($126 billion) to prop
up Spanish banks. While the  European Central Bank  kept its
benchmark rate at 1 percent on June 6, President  Mario Draghi 
said policy makers discussed cutting the rate to a new record
low after downside economic risks increased.  “All the signs received so far point to a rapid
deterioration in the economic outlook at the start of the second
quarter,” said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Capital
Markets in Europe. “We expect the ECB to cut  interest rates  in
July. Draghi has left the door wide open.”  Stocks Rally  Stocks rose, led by the biggest gain in Spain’s shares in
six months, after the country sought a bailout for its banks and
China’s exports beat estimates. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
gained 1.4 percent to 245.23 at 12:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The
euro strengthened to $1.2567.  “Even if the bailout of Spain’s banks is a short-term
positive, an amplification of the recession in the periphery
could remind investors that the recession risks are still
significant,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Plc in London.  The ECB last week forecast the 17-nation euro economy will
contract 0.1 percent this year before returning to growth of 1
percent in 2013.  The drop in French factory output is the latest indication
that the country is suffering from stagnant demand in its main
export markets after the debt crisis pushed neighbors such as
Italy and  Spain  into recessions.  “This paints a dire picture of the French economy that is
clearly linked to a renewed intensification of the euro
crisis,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at  ABN Amro  in
Amsterdam. President  Francois Hollande , who won office last
month on a pledge to revive growth “is between a rock and a
hard place,” Beaumont said.  Italian Recession  Today’s report comes after the Bank of France said last
week that sentiment among French factory executives slipped in
May, suggesting the economy will shrink 0.1 percent in the
second quarter.  The GDP drop “could be quite modest” because industrial
production, which includes electricity generation, increased 1.5
percent in April, Beaumont said. The European Commission
forecasts the French economy will grow 0.5 percent this year.  Italy entered its fourth recession since 2001 in the final
quarter of last year and austerity measures being put in place
by Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government suggest the downturn
will continue, economists said.  Household Spending  Household spending decreased 1 percent from the fourth
quarter and sales abroad fell 0.6 percent, today’s GDP breakdown
showed. The Italian economy will contract around 1.5 percent
this year, according to the  Bank of Italy .  “The picture for the Italian economy looks extremely weak
and the breakdown of the report shows a dramatic decline in
domestic demand, a clear sign that the economy is suffering from
both slower global demand and the effects of tighter fiscal
conditions,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at Newedge
Group in  London , wrote today in an e-mailed note. “Prospects
don’t look rosier for the future, with both business and
 consumer confidence  indicators pointing to another deep
recession.”  In Asia, China’s exports rose in May at more than double
the pace analysts estimated while industrial output and retail
sales trailed forecasts, signaling that last week’s interest-
rate cut was aimed at countering a domestic slowdown.  Overseas shipments climbed 15.3 percent from a year
earlier, the customs bureau said yesterday, exceeding all 29
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Industrial output gained
by less than 10 percent for a second month and retail sales
increased the least in almost six years excluding holiday-month
distortions, statistics bureau reports showed June 9.  China ’s trade resilience signals Europe’s crisis has yet to
spark a collapse in world commerce on the scale of 2008, even as
Spain’s banking woes threaten to deepen the trauma. Stronger
exports and imports also support the case for Premier  Wen Jiabao 
to adopt a more restrained stimulus than the credit boom
officials unleashed in 2008, which stoked a property bubble.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  