-- GAIL Plans LNG Contracts Linked to Oil, Gas to Limit Price Risks
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2012-06-11T21:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/gail-plans-lng-contracts-linked-to-oil-gas-to-limit-price-risks.html
GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  plans to buy 10
million metric tons a year of liquefied natural gas with
purchases from around the world linked to different indexes in
an effort to reduce price volatility.  GAIL, India’s biggest natural-gas distributor, is following
 Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  in securing higher-priced,
oil-linked LNG supplies from the Middle East and seeking cheaper,
gas-indexed prices in  North America , whose main benchmark price
is  Henry Hub , traded on the New York   New Delhi-based GAIL
plans to buy as much as 10 million tons a year by 2020 to bring
into India’s Dahej, Kochi and Dabhol import facilities.  “We plan to buy a mix of LNG from the U.S. under Henry Hub
and from Australia and other parts of the world,” Prabhat Singh,
the company’s marketing director, said in an interview at the
World Gas Conference in  Kuala Lumpur  last week. “We’re in talks
with many suppliers. U.S. LNG is relatively affordable, and
we’re looking for the right price at the right place.”  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , with a contract to supply GAIL with
3.5 million metric tons a year of LNG, is using Henry Hub as the
index, while Australia’s Gorgon project is using oil as the
price basis for 1.5 million tons a year for  Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLNG) , a
unit of GAIL.  U.S. producers including Cheniere want to attract buyers
from Japan to India with shipments from eight proposed export
terminals . While North American shipments could account for 10
percent of world LNG supplies, it’s unlikely that all the
projects will start, according to Tokyo Gas Co., Japan’s biggest
distributor.  ‘Short Window’  OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest natural-gas exporter,
agreed in June 2011 on preliminary long-term LNG supply deals
with GAIL, Petronet LNG and Gujarat State Petroleum Corp. for a
total of as much as 7.5 million tons annually.  “There are a few LNG projects coming up around the world,
and we have a short window of signing deals with any company,”
Singh said. “We’re confident we’ll get LNG at a price that
suits us.”  U.S. exports to Asia would cost $9.35 per million British
thermal units, based on a benchmark Henry Hub price of $3,
according to a May 29 presentation by Cheniere. The Houston-
based firm is building the nation’s largest LNG export terminal
in Louisiana. Japan, the biggest LNG importer, paid more than
$17 per million British thermal units in April.  Gas in  New York  is down 24 percent this year and fell to a
decade low in April. The fuel dropped 1.7 percent to $2.26 per
million Btu today on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Floating Regasification  GAIL also plans to set up an LNG import facility using a
floating regasification vessel, Singh said, giving no details.  The company has set aside $1 billion for shale-gas
acquisitions and is looking at assets in the U.S. and  Canada ,
Singh said at last week’s conference. GAIL  bought  a 20 percent
stake in shale areas in the Eagle Ford region in Texas from
Carizzo Oil & Gas Inc. for $95 million in September.  GAIL is in talks to buy gas from Freeport LNG Development
LP’s proposed plant in the U.S., a person with direct knowledge
of the matter said Jan. 16.  Japan’s Mitsui & Co. and Mitsubishi agreed to acquire a $2
billion stake in Woodside Petroleum Ltd.’s proposed Browse LNG
venture in Western  Australia  and buy about 1.5 million tons of
the fuel annually from the project. That followed China
Petrochemical’s agreement last year to buy 7.6 million tons
annually from a project in Queensland state led by Origin and
ConocoPhillips.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Dinakar Sethuraman in New Delhi at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  