-- Gasoline Fluctuates on Concern Europe Debt Crisis Will Spread
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-06-11T15:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/gasoline-gains-as-spain-seeks-bailout-china-exports-increase.html
Gasoline fluctuated on concern that
 Spain ’s request for a bailout won’t forestall a spread of the
European debt crisis, which would threaten the global recovery.  Futures swung between gains and losses as Spain asked euro-
region governments over the weekend for as much as 100 billion
euros ($126 billion) to help shore up its banking system. Greek
voters go to the polls this weekend to decide whether to honor
that country’s international bailout.  “All the same problems are still here. The only thing
you’re doing is buying some time and Greek elections are coming
up,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut.  Gasoline for July delivery fell 0.59 cent to $2.6793 a
gallon at 10:38 a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Prices
swung between a low of $2.673 and a high of $2.7523.  Spain became the fourth country in the 17-member currency
union to seek an emergency bailout.  The government in  Athens  has “a few weeks” before
exhausting its funds, making this is “a make-or-break period,”
former Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  told Bloomberg
Television in a June 8 interview.  Polls show the June 17 election in Greece may be a close
race.  New Democracy , Greece’s largest pro-bailout party, led
anti-bailout Syriza by 22.7 percent to 22 percent, according to
an ANT1 TV poll on June 1, the last date surveys were made
public. An election on May 6 failed to produce a viable
governing majority.  Earlier Rise  Futures rose as much as 2.5 percent earlier in electronic
trading on news of Spain’s request for a bailout and as China’s
shipments grew last month at more than double the pace analysts
estimated and crude oil imports reached a record.  “People still have concerns what the end result will be in
Spain and whether it does anything to improve their economy. And
you have the Greek elections this weekend,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,  fell  0.2
cent to $3.54 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. Prices have
fallen 26 straight days to the lowest level since Feb. 17.  July-delivery heating oil fell 1.16 cents, or 0.4 percent,
to $2.6605 a gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  