-- General Electric to Invest $900 Million in Turkey in 3 Years
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-06-11T15:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/general-electric-to-invest-900-million-in-turkey-in-3-years-1-.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  will invest
$900 million in aviation, energy, health, transportation and
infrastructure in  Turkey  over the next three years after the
government offered incentives to investors.  The investment package will include production of wind
energy equipment, Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said today at
a press conference in Istanbul.  “We have not announced specifics of the investment which
will be defined over time and until then we have no further
details to add,” the company said in an emailed statement.  The plan has “a focus on infrastructure and innovation,”
GE Vice Chairman  John Rice  told reporters. The company will
provide specifics “in the next couple of months” and is in
talks with universities on plans for research and development,
he said.  GE also set up a strategic partnership with state-run
locomotive manufacturer Turkiye Lokomotif & Motor Sanayi AS,
known as Tulomsas, in 2008 and expect its exports to be $1.5
billion over next 10 years, the company said in a statement
handed to reporters.  Caglayan said GE will boost its cooperation in railway
transportation business.  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company, which sold an
18.6 percent stake in  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  to  Spain ’s
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA)  SA for $3.78 billion in 2010,
has a 46 percent stake in Turkish Aerospace Industries, the
Ankara-based maker of aircraft parts known as Tusas, and owns
half of Gama Enerji AS, a Turkish power producer, among its six
units with 600 employees in Turkey. The U.S. company also makes
health-care measurement and imaging devices, lighting equipment
and power turbines.  Energy Demand  Turkey’s electricity demand is increasing about 6 percent
annually, compared with a government economic growth forecast of
4 percent, Caglayan said. “It’s only logical for an energy
giant like GE to invest in Turkey’s energy,” he said.  GE, founded in the late 19th century by Thomas Edison, is
one of the oldest major companies in the U.S. It’s the world’s
biggest maker of diesel locomotives and airplane engines.  Local unit General Elektrik Ticaret & Servis AS may start
manufacturing wind turbines and parts, with half the output
likely to be sold within Turkey as the government targets a 20-
fold increase in wind capacity by 2020, Mete Maltepe, head of
GE’s local energy unit, said in an interview in 2010.  GE will benefit from a wide-ranging package of incentives
offered to investors to boost local production as a way to
narrow the country’s current account deficit, Caglayan said.  Turkey is looking to spur investment in industries that
rely on imports to produce their goods to help narrow a current-
account gap of about nine percent of its $772 billion gross
domestic product, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said April
5. The government is focusing its efforts on industries
including defense, automotive, rail and sea transport,
pharmaceuticals, education, tourism and mining, Caglayan’s
economy ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  