-- Germany May Pass Solar Subsidy Cuts by July 7 After Bill Blocked
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-06-11T11:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/germany-may-pass-solar-subsidy-cuts-by-july-7-after-bill-blocked.html
Germany  may pass legislation to cut
solar-power subsidies before July 7 should the government and
regional leaders reach a compromise this week, according to an
official at the Federal Environment Agency.  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s plan to cut solar subsidies by a
record from April 1 was blocked by officials in the upper house
last month on concerns it would hurt employment. The bill was
sent to a parliamentary panel for arbitration, which meets June
13, according to Carla Vollmer, head of the renewable energy
section at the agency.  “If consensus can be reached on this day, it’s possible to
pass the bill before the summer break,” starting July 7 at the
latest, Vollmer told a solar conference today in Munich.  Merkel plans to lower by about half the pace of annual
solar installations after incentives pushed new projects to a
record 7.5 gigawatts last year. Germany plans to have 52
gigawatts of panels by 2020, with a yearly installation rate of
2.5 gigawatts to 3.5 gigawatts a year, Vollmer said.  Governors demanded changes to the proposed bill on concern
it will hurt local producers such as  Solarworld AG (SWV)  as Chinese
rivals grab market share. At least four German solar companies
including  Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the world’s biggest cell maker, have
filed for creditor protection since December.  “The cut will be drastic but it will still be profitable
for homeowners to install panels on their rooftops,” said
Harald Will, managing director of Solarinitiative Muenchen, a
solar-plant developer in Munich. “That’s a business model
that’s already going on and will only improve in the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net 
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  