-- Germany Prefers Permanent Fund for Spain, Stirring Conflict
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-06-11T12:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/germany-sees-spain-rescue-from-permanent-backstop-with-troika.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government said Spain’s bailout program should draw from the
euro-area’s permanent backstop, a proposal that may rankle both
the Spanish government and its bondholders.  Germany ’s preference for the European Stability Mechanism,
which is scheduled to be set up next month, threatens to clash
with that of Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy . Spain said
today that current investors won’t be affected, suggesting that
it prefers tapping the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility, set up in May 2010.  “If you want to use the more efficient option, then the
ESM would be the preference,” German Finance Ministry spokesman
Martin Kotthaus told a regular government press conference today
in Berlin. That would subordinate investors to official funding,
which has preferred creditor status under the ESM treaty.  Spanish borrowing costs climbed today, reversing an earlier
rally.  Ten-year yields  rose 19 basis points to 6.4 percent as of
1:23 p.m. in  Madrid  after earlier falling to as low as 6.02
percent.  ESM funding would be junior only to  International Monetary
Fund  financing, while EFSF funds, backed by government
guarantees, aren’t a preferred creditor. That motivated Finnish
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen to demand collateral if the
EFSF were used. The ESM will work off paid-in capital.  Market ‘Negative’  Since an ESM loan would be senior to other bond holders,
“if the funds are raised this way, then the market will view
that as a negative,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income
strategist at Rabobank International in  London .  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today that
Spain’s 100 billion-euro ($126 billion) bailout would be placed
under the supervision of the so-called troika of outside
creditors, as with earlier rescues. Rajoy told reporters
yesterday that the fresh funding didn’t constitute a rescue.  While the funds will be channeled to Spanish banks rather
than as part of a “macroeconomic adjustment program,” the
financing operation will be overseen by the European Commission,
the  European Central Bank  and the International Monetary Fund,
Schaeuble told  Deutschlandfunk  radio.  “There will still be a troika and they will still ensure
that the program is being implemented,” Schaeuble said. The
Spanish government is responsible for carrying out the program,
he said, “but it’s focused solely on the restructuring of the
banking sector.”  Finnish Condition  Finland considers supervision of Spain’s banks through the
troika as a precondition of the bailout, Prime Minister  Jyrki
Katainen  said in an interview in  Norway  today.  Spain’s government said the bailout wouldn’t undermine the
conditions of its outstanding debt, a scenario more compatible
with financing from the temporary EFSF.  “This financial assistance will not only not undermine the
present conditions of the current stock of Spanish public debt,
it will also reinforce its overall solvency,” the Economy
Ministry in Madrid said in a statement.  Maria Dolores Cospedal, the deputy leader of Rajoy’s
 People’s Party , told reporters later that it was still to be
decided which of the two funds would be used. The matter will be
discussed at a European summit at the end of June, she said.  Euro finance ministers would prefer Spain to tap the
permanent backstop,  Norbert Barthle , the budgetary expert in
Merkel’s party caucus, said in an interview.  Capital Base  Deploying the ESM would be more efficient because the 500
billion-euro fund has its own capital base, making it easier to
raise funds, he said. At the same time, “we’re hostage to when
Spain actually applies,” Barthle said.  The timing and details of the request from Spain will
determine from which rescue fund the money comes, Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, told reporters in Berlin.  Schaeuble, in his radio interview, compared the Spanish
rescue to the U.S. government’s recapitalization of American
banks in 2008. Although the U.S. banking rescue took months to
be successful, the crisis was in the end “mastered” with
sufficient funding, he said.  “That’s exactly why, based on the lessons we learned from
the crisis, we urged  Spain  to supply the banks with sufficient
capital, whether they want it or not,” Schaeuble said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  