-- GM Directors Unfazed by 33% Stock Slump Praise Akerson
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-06-11T20:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/gm-directors-undaunted-by-33-stock-plunge-praise-ceo-akerson.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  directors praised
Dan Akerson’s performance as chief executive officer while
saying he must now fix the automaker’s European operations and
begin grooming a successor.  Akerson, who gave himself a ‘B’ grade during an interview
last month, can stay on as long as he wants, directors Robert Krebs, Neville Isdell and  Patricia Russo  said last week in
separate interviews before the company’s annual meeting in
Detroit. GM regained the title of world’s largest automaker last
year, when it earned a record full-year profit of $9.19 billion.  Even with those successes under Akerson,  GM’s stock  fell 45
percent in 2011. Shares, including the U.S. government’s 32
percent stake, have declined 34 percent from the automaker’s
November 2010 initial public offering, attracting value investor
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   “We’re frustrated, but we don’t sit around the board table
bemoaning the price of the stock,” Krebs, who joined GM’s board
in July 2009, said by telephone from  Chicago . “We’re in this
for the long haul.”  GM slid 0.6 percent to $21.92 at the close in  New York .  About half of the company’s directors, including Krebs,
Russo, Akerson and his predecessor,  Ed Whitacre , joined the
board as the company emerged from its 2009 bankruptcy
reorganization. Whitacre replaced longtime GM executive  Fritz Henderson  as CEO, then surprised the board when he said he
didn’t want to stay with the company long after the 2010 IPO.  The directors turned to Akerson, a Navy veteran who had
split his career between telecommunications and private equity.  “I don’t think we could’ve found anyone better,” Isdell,
former CEO and chairman of  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , said in a telephone
interview from France.  Culture Change  Isdell, Krebs and Russo say they’ve witnessed a cultural
change at the automaker, once known for management by consensus
that was too slow and too cautious.  “The company is a lot more externally focused and a lot
more competitively driven,” Russo said by telephone from New
York.  Walking out of the last GM board meeting, Krebs said he
told Isdell that GM “isn’t even the same company that we saw
when it came out of bankruptcy.”  Isdell agreed. Akerson has found and promoted “very good
people who know what’s wrong and are dying to do the right
thing,” he told an Atlanta audience last month.  Government Credit  Still, the CEO shouldn’t be given too much credit for GM’s
stellar profits, because it was the company’s government-backed
bankruptcy, managed by  Steven Rattner  and  Ron Bloom , that
lowered the automaker’s break-even point, said  Maryann Keller ,
principal of a self-titled consulting firm in Stamford,
 Connecticut .  Last year’s market-share gain -- GM added half a percentage
point in the U.S. -- was aided by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
production shortfalls caused by natural disasters in  Asia , said
Keller, a former Wall Street analyst. GM faces increased
competition from a resurgent Toyota as well as  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
which has aggressive global growth goals, she said.  “How’s he doing for somebody who didn’t know anything
about the car business when he took over? I suppose OK, but
you’re measuring against that criteria,” Keller said.  Akerson’s Team  Akerson has been successful in building a strong senior
management team, from which he should be able to groom a
successor, said Russo, the board’s lead director. She said
research suggests external successors make sense for companies
needing change.  “I don’t believe that’s the case for GM at this point,”
said Russo, a former Alcatel-Lucent SA CEO. “I would hope that
when the time is right we’ve got a sufficient bench to be able
to find the right successor.”  Vice Chairman Steve Girsky, 50, North America President
 Mark Reuss , 48, and Senior Vice President for Global Product
Development Mary Barra, 50, have been mentioned by Akerson as
possibilities. It isn’t a choice the board expects to face soon.  “I’ve encouraged him to stay long enough to find a
successor in the company and to get the board comfortable,”
Krebs said, estimating it would take “a couple years.”  Tomorrow’s Meeting  The agenda for GM’s annual meeting tomorrow in Detroit
includes re-electing all 12 directors, including Akerson, and
adding two new members: Jim Mulva, 65, former  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
chief executive officer, and Tim Solso, 65, retired CEO of
 Cummins Inc. (CMI)   The shareholder meeting coincides with a board meeting,
where members have recently been getting detailed analyses of
what competitors are doing better than GM.  “Costs are still too high,” Krebs said. While GM’s
operating margins are about 5 percent, he’d like to see that
nearly double to the level that both Volkswagen and Hyundai are
posting. “We’re envious of the financial results those
companies are turning in.”  About half of the gap between GM and those rivals is
because of Europe, where GM has lost $16.4 billion since 1999,
Akerson has said. Analysts have estimated it will cost at least
$1 billion to restructure Opel, and it may take years to stop
the losses.  “We have to wait until 2014 before we can close a plant
and clearly that has to be done,” Krebs said.  Akerson’s legacy -- and the board’s -- will be shaped in
large part by whether he’s successful in turning around GM’s
European operations. Though Henderson had advocated selling most
of Opel, the German carmaker owned by GM, Akerson helped
persuade the board to keep it. That was the right decision,
Krebs said.  “We’re going to fix it,” he said, “so it becomes a low-
enough cost producer so that it can survive in the bad times and
make a lot of money in the good times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan,  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  