-- Goirigolzarri’s Aid Demand Helped Push Spain to Bailout
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-06-12T16:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/goirigolzarri-bankia-aid-demand-helped-push-spain-toward-bailout.html
Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, the man
charged with cleaning up Bankia group, helped set  Spain  on its
course to a banking bailout by asking for 19 billion euros
($23.8 billion) in state aid two weeks after becoming chairman.  The demand for aid, made in consultation with the
government and the Bank of Spain, revealed the deepening hole in
the  balance sheet  of Bankia, the country’s third-biggest lender,
and by extension other parts of the nation’s financial system.  “He was the one who has thrown back the curtain in Spain
itself and said ‘yes it really is this bad,’” said  Simon Maughan , a financial industry strategist at Olivetree Securities
Ltd. in  London . “It wasn’t his intention to trigger a bailout
but it may have been an unintended consequence.”  Goirigolzarri, the former second-in-command at  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , was named chairman of the Bankia group on
May 9. The size of the request for aid by the bespectacled
Basque banker and history buff from the industrial port city of
Bilbao helped propel Spain to seek as much 100 billion euros for
its lenders by underscoring the fragile state of their balance
sheets and the state’s finances.  Crisis ‘Detonator’  Spain sought aid for its banks on June 9, becoming the
fourth euro member to seek a bailout since the debt crisis began
almost three years ago. The nation’s plea for funds followed the
publication a day before of an International Monetary Fund
report saying Spain’s lenders would need at least 37 billion
euros to withstand a weakening economy. Spanish bankers have no
doubt what triggered the bailout.  “The detonator for this latest phase of the crisis has
been the situation of a large institution with enormous capital
needs and the apparent incapacity to cover them through its own
means,” Angel Ron, the chairman of  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) ,
told shareholders in  Madrid  yesterday.  Shares in Popular fell 3.6 percent to 1.63 euros at the
close of trading in Madrid. Bankinter SA declined 4.6 percent
and  Bankia SA (BKIA)  lost 1.9 percent, as the yield on Spain’s 10-year
bond rose to 6.68 percent.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA, the country’s biggest lenders, also fell.  Spain’s request for a bailout came 15 days after
Goirigolzarri, 58, said that the Bankia group would need state
funds to provision for greater losses on residential mortgages
and lending to companies as well as real estate. The state said
in May it would take control of the lender by converting 4.5
billion euros of preferred shares in Bankia’s parent, Banco
Financiero y de Ahorros, into voting shares.  ‘Serious Analysis’  “This plan has been agreed with the Bank of Spain and the
economy ministry,” Goirigolzarri told reporters in Madrid on
May 26. The 19 billion-euro figure was “the product of a very
serious analysis that we shared amongst ourselves,” he said.
Goirigolzarri declined to comment for this article.  The amount sought by Bankia is equivalent to about 2
percent of Spanish gross domestic product and four times the
cash in Spain’s  bank-rescue fund . Bankia’s needs forced the hand
of Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who said as recently as May 28
Spanish banks wouldn’t need a European bailout.  Bankia made the request after restating the group’s 2011
 results , showing a 3.3 billion-euro loss rather than a 40.9
million-euro profit. Shares in Bankia have  plunged  72 percent
since July, when it raised more than 3 billion euros in an
initial public offering. The formation of Bankia group and the
IPO are under investigation by Spanish prosecutors.  Crisis Spreads  Bankia’s petition for state funds ratcheted up the pressure
on Rajoy because it showed that Spain’s  bad loan  crisis was
spreading beyond real estate to company and consumer loans as
the economy worsened. Spain had already forced lenders to take
provisioning charges of 67 billion euros to cover real estate-
linked losses with decrees in February and May.  “Trying to estimate loan losses in an economic environment
like Spain’s is a bit like shooting at the moon with a
peashooter -- it’s very hard to be sure you can come up with an
accurate number,” said Daragh Quinn, a banking  analyst  at
Nomura International in Madrid. “Those numbers were always
going to come out and maybe other banks will have to follow.”  Goirigolzarri’s assessment showed the bank to be in much
worse shape than the previous management had said. The demand
for a state capital injection came three months after his
predecessor, former IMF Managing Director  Rodrigo Rato , said the
Bankia group could meet the 5.1 billion-euro requirements of
this year’s first provisioning order without needing more aid.  Spain’s El Pais newspaper said June 3 that Rato had planned
to clean up the lender by seeking just 6.5 billion euros.  IMF Report  The 19 billion-euro aid request irked some bankers.  “From the point of view of the rest of the industry and
society at large, it’s a source of scandal because it affects us
all negatively,” said Maria Dolores Dancausa, chief executive
officer of  Bankinter SA (BKT) , in an e-mailed response to questions
from Bloomberg.  Bankia asked for more money than the IMF deemed necessary
in its analysis. The IMF’s stress-testing of Bankia’s books
revealed a shortfall of 13 billion euros to 14 billion euros,
meaning that the lender asked for a buffer to adjust company
stakes to market value and write down deferred tax assets, an
official at the Washington-based IMF, who declined to be
identified, said in a June 8 briefing for reporters.  Second Lender  Goirigolzarri’s appointment as Bankia chairman marks his
return to the top echelon of Spanish banking.  In 2009, at the age of 55, he resigned his post as
president and chief operating officer at BBVA, leaving Spain’s
 second-biggest lender  with a pension of more than 50 million
euros. The bank’s board had allowed Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez 
to extend his term as the bank’s top executive until the age of
70 even though Gonzalez had repeatedly said that Goirigolzarri
would succeed him when he completed his mandate.  Goirigolzarri studied economics and business at Bilbao’s
Deusto Commercial University. Other alumni of Deusto University
include Banco Santander SA Chairman  Emilio Botin  and CEO Alfredo Saenz, as well as Juan Maria Nin, the CEO of  CaixaBank (CABK)  SA.  Bilbao’s growing steel and shipyard industries during the
country’s industrialization promoted the city’s development as a
banking center, said Fernando Gomez-Bezares, a professor at
Deusto. Goirigolzarri maintains links with the school and gave a
speech to graduates in 2003, Gomez-Bezares said.  Efficiency Gains  In 1977, he joined Banco de Bilbao in its planning
department and worked his way up as the lender grew through
mergers to become general director of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya in
1992 and head of BBVA’s retail banking operations in 2001. He
took the top executive role at the bank under Gonzalez in 2001.  On Goirigolzarri’s watch from 2001 to 2009, BBVA’s costs as
a proportion of revenue fell to 40.4 percent from 50.4 percent
as he focused on wringing efficiency gains from the bank.  “He is a real professional, open-minded and always
striving for the best,” said Reyes Calderon, a faculty dean at
the University of Navarra who got to know Goirigolzarri because
of their shared interest in the  life of Diego de Gardoqui , the
Bilbao-born merchant and first Spanish envoy to the U.S.
appointed in 1785. “He was born in a port and he knows how to
manage when the seas are calm and stormy.”  At Bankia, the lender with the biggest Spanish asset base,
Goirigolzarri is leading a  group  with 3,300 branches, 183
billion euros of loans and 161 billion euros of deposits. It has
more than 300 billion euros in assets, equivalent to almost a
third of Spanish GDP. The Bankia group was formed in 2010 from a
merger of seven savings banks led by  Caja Madrid  and Valencia-
based Bancaja.  ‘Excellent Banker’  Goirigolzarri named Jose Sevilla, a former head of risk at
BBVA, as Bankia’s director general, and cleared out the listed
bank’s board. The bank, which took 4.5 billion euros of state
aid in 2010, will give plans to sell stakes in companies when it
presents its strategy this month, Goirigolzarri said May 26.  “He is an excellent banker, one of the best in Spain,”
said Alvaro Cuervo, director of the  University College for
Financial Studies  in Madrid, referring to Goirigolzarri. “With
him and his team in charge, Bankia can compete head to head with
Santander and BBVA because the network is very potent if it’s
properly administered.”  As for Goirigolzarri’s motives in emerging from semi-
retirement to take on the role at Bankia, it gives him the
chance to show he’s still “a great banker,” said Cuervo.  “If he does well at Bankia, it’s entirely possible that
further down the line the  shareholders of BBVA  take note of what
a wonderful job he has done and maybe ask whether he shouldn’t
be running their bank,” said Olivetree’s Maughan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  