-- Goldman Sachs May Sell Hedge Fund Unit to State Street
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-06-11T10:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/goldman-sachs-may-sell-a-hedge-fund-division-to-state-street.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, is in talks to sell its hedge-fund
administration unit to  State Street Corp. (STT) , according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  A final agreement is yet to be reached, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the negotiations are
private. The unit provides fund accounting, valuation and risk-
management for hedge funds.  Regulators including the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission have increased oversight of companies that do
business with hedge funds in response to convicted fraudster
Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme and industry losses in 2008.
State Street, the third-biggest custody bank, added $170 billion
of hedge-fund and private-equity assets when it bought Mourant
International Finance Administration, based in  Jersey  in the
Channel Islands, in December 2009.  “This is a sensible move for Goldman Sachs in getting out
of this largely unglamorous business, in which increased
regulation and oversight from SEC has put additional risk on the
administrator without necessarily generating the commensurate
revenues,” said Christopher Wheeler, analyst with Mediobanca
SpA in London. Such sales have “become a common practice for
U.S. banks since the Madoff scandal, following a similar trend
in Europe.”  State Street had $506 billion in hedge-fund assets under
administration at the end of March, the Boston-based company
said in an April 30  presentation .  “As a matter of policy, we don’t comment on rumor or
speculation,”  Hannah Grove , a State Street spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail. A Goldman Sachs spokeswoman in  London  declined to
comment.  The combined business would have about $700 billion in
assets, according to the Financial Times, which reported the
talks earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  