-- Google Ends Legal Dispute With French Authors Over Scans
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-11T14:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/google-ends-legal-dispute-with-french-authors-over-book-scans.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
largest search engine, ended legal disputes with a French
publishing trade group and a French authors’ association over
the U.S. company’s scanning of books.  The Syndicat National de l’Edition, which represents more
than 600 publishers, and the SGDL Society of Authors agreed with
Google to end litigation over Google’s scanning of copyright-
protected books without permission, according to two statements
today. This means Google no longer faces French legal action
over book scanning, according to Bill Echikson, a spokesman for
the  Mountain View , California-based company.  Google is working to improve its relationship with French
industry groups and regulators after disputes over privacy and
access to copyrighted content. It has also settled legal
disputes with the Hachette Livre unit of  Lagardere SCA (MMB) , the
country’s biggest publisher, and La Martiniere Groupe that
allowed it scan out-of-print works that are still copyrighted.  “We’ve agreed a model to get out-of-print books back into
print,” Echikson said in a telephone interview of the agreement
with SNE. While Google’s settlement with the publishers’ group
doesn’t contain any financial terms, it will separately sponsor
a school-reading program it runs, he said.  Google plans to sell some of the scanned copyrighted works
as electronic books and will share the proceeds with publishers
under individual deals where the “majority of the revenue comes
to the publisher,” said Philippe Colombet,  Google Books ’
strategic partner development manager in  France .  E-Book Market  “We believe that as the e-book market matures” the focus
will shift from new titles and bestsellers to older works
generating revenue, Colombet said in a conference call with
reporters.  Colombet said Google was “still talking” to French
publishers that last year dropped a 9.8 million-euro ($12.3
million) lawsuit against Google over book-scanning. Editions
Albin Michel SA, Editions Gallimard SA and Flammarion made the
decision in order to resume negotiations to reach a deal on
scanning copyright-protected works for Google’s digital library.  Google will financially support the SGDL Society of
Authors’ development of a database of book authors and right-
owners to settle legal proceedings over the scanning of
copyright-protected books for its digital library, the company
and the SGDL said in a joint statement. Google declined to
disclose the financial terms of the support.  The SGDL, which represents 6,000 French and French-speaking
authors, said the agreement will reaffirm the position of
authors and help them protect their rights online, SGDL
President Jean-Claude Bologne said in the joint statement.  Scanning Project  A Paris court ruled in 2009 that Google’s book-scanning
project violated some publishers’ and authors’ copyrights.
Google has argued that the display of snippets of text is fair
use under copyright law.  The search-engine owner this month lost a U.S. court bid to
dismiss claims by groups including the Author’s Guild and the
American Society of Media Photographers in two lawsuits over
electronic books.  The suits stem from Google’s plan, announced in 2004, to
digitally scan books from public and university libraries to
provide short snippets of text to people who use its Internet
search engine. It said in a February court filing that it has
scanned more than 20 million books.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 