-- Gorman to Blankfein Treated as Junk Before Cuts: Credit Markets
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-06-11T09:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/gorman-to-blankfein-treated-as-junk-before-cuts-credit-markets.html
For all the speculation over how far
Moody’s Investors Service will lower the credit ratings of the
world’s largest banks, debt traders are already treating the
firms like they’re graded lower than the biggest potential cuts.  Bonds issued by Morgan Stanley and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  have
dropped to prices implying junk ratings, while credit-default
swaps on  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  are trading as if the lenders were speculative-grade
issuers, according to a separate Moody’s unit that analyzes
market data. Even the harshest downgrades in the ratings firm’s
review would leave those banks investment grade.  Investors are fleeing global financial institutions as
Europe’s escalating fiscal crisis threatens to poison the
balance sheets of the region’s lenders and spread to trading
partners globally. Moody’s, which has been reducing ratings for
banks from  Australia  to  Austria , has said that 15 banks with a
combined $28.2 trillion of assets may be the next group it cuts
as part of a review that will conclude this month.  “The financial companies run with much more leverage than
similarly rated non-financial companies, and their spreads
reflect that,” said Richard Familetti, senior portfolio manager
at New York-based Ryan Labs Inc., which manages $4.5 billion.
Investors see bank debt to be as risky as BBB rated bonds of
industrial companies, he said in a telephone interview.  Not Deserved  James Gorman ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s chief executive officer, has
been trying to convince Moody’s that the bank doesn’t deserve
the potential three-level downgrade it’s facing after boosting
its capital, selling businesses and adding liquidity. Goldman
Sachs Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said in April that
the firm, led by CEO Lloyd Blankfein since 2006, shouldn’t be
cut.  Morgan Stanley, rated A2 by Moody’s, may be cut as low as
Baa2, the rankings firm said. The prices of the New York-based
bank’s bonds imply a rating of Ba1, two levels below that grade,
according to Moody’s capital markets research group. The average
yield on Morgan Stanley debt climbed to 5.8 percent on June 7,
from 4.7 percent on February 14, before Moody’s announced its
review, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Bonds of French lender Credit Agricole, which faces a
potential two-level downgrade to A2, trade at prices that
suggest a Ba3 rating, nine steps below its current grade,
according to the Moody’s research group. Its average euro-
denominated debt yields were 5.7 percent as of June 7, the index
data show.  Global Spreads  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold corporate bonds globally rather than government
debentures fell for the first time in five weeks, declining from
the highest level in more than four months. Bond sales slipped,
approaching the lowest level of the year, while benchmark
indexes of credit risk in the U.S. and  Europe  fell. Prices on
leveraged loans rose.  Relative yields on company bonds worldwide decreased 6
basis points last week to 230 basis points, or 2.3 percentage
points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global
Broad Market Corporate index. Yields rose to 3.41 percent from
3.36 percent on June 1.  The Barclays Global Aggregate Corporate Index lost 0.08
percent this month, paring gains for the year to 3 percent.  Deere Bonds  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.
were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers last week, with 945 trades of $1 million
or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  A two-part $2.25 billion offering from  Deere & Co. (DE)  led
$43.6 billion of corporate bond sales worldwide last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell from $53
billion in the prior period and compare with a weekly 2012
average of $77 billion. Issuance of $43.0 billion in the five
days ended April 6 was the slowest since the period ended Dec.
30.  Moline, Illinois-based Deere’s $1.25 billion of 3.9
percent, 30-year bonds rose 0.2 cent from the June 5 issue price
to 99.5 cents on the dollar at the end of the week to yield 3.93
percent, Trace data show.  The Markit CDX Investment-Grade index, which investors use
to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 5.9 basis points to a mid-price of 120.6 basis points
last week, after touching 127.5 on June 4, the highest since
Dec. 19, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings dropped after  Spain  sought a bailout
for its banks, with the gauge down 5 basis points to 171.5 at
10:40 a.m. in  London .  Loans Rise  In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index of
40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  dropped 8.5 basis
points to 187.5 basis points.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
rose 0.01 cent last week to 92.32 cents on the dollar, ending a
three-week slide. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest
dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has declined from
a nine-month high of 94.56 on May 14.  Awaiting Moody’s  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are graded below Baa3
by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at S&P.  In  emerging markets , relative yields narrowed 43.2 basis
points to 397.4 basis points, according to  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index . Spreads ended the previous week at the
widest since Jan. 13.  Moody’s  announced  the bank-rating review in February,
saying firms that earn money in  capital markets  are challenged
by “fragile funding conditions, wider credit spreads, increased
regulatory burdens and more difficult operating conditions.”  Bank profits have dropped as trading and deal volume fell
amid concerns that the European debt crisis would cause a
worldwide slowdown and investment banks cut assets to prepare
for tighter capital rules. Investment banking and trading
revenue at the 10 largest global firms has dropped 19 percent
each of the past two years, according to data from industry
analytics firm Coalition Ltd., leading banks to announce more
than 200,000 job cuts last year.  Cuts Anticipated  The ratings company has delayed its decisions, saying it
will complete the review by the end of June after scheduling it
for mid-May. A  timetable  published in April indicated that the
investment-bank downgrades would likely follow those of
Finland’s lenders, which came on May 30. Abbas Qasim, a
spokesman for the firm, said that order wasn’t definite and
declined to say when Moody’s will take action.  “Everybody is anticipating these downgrades,” said Bonnie Baha, head of global developed credit at Los Angeles-based
DoubleLine Capital LP, which oversees $35 billion. “The fear
here is that the downgrades are more negative than even the
market anticipates.”  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment, as did  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for
Bank of America, and Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for Goldman
Sachs. Messages left with Cesaltine Gregorio of BNP Paribas and
a press relations mailbox at  Credit Agricole  weren’t returned.  Markets Diverge  “We think that if you look at every single credit metric
there is for Goldman Sachs and, frankly, for many of our
competitors, none of the actions they’ve talked about are
warranted,” Goldman Sachs’s Viniar said when asked about the
Moody’s ratings review on an April 17 conference call to discuss
earnings.  “We’re saying to them we’re actually in much, much better
shape than perhaps was understood by the marketplace and the
 ratings agencies ,” Gorman said in a CNBC interview on May 31.  Market-implied ratings for the biggest U.S. banks began
diverging from their actual grades in 2006 and 2007 as concerns
started emerging over a housing-market slowdown that fueled the
biggest financial crisis since the Great Depression and led to
the 2008 emergency sales of Bear Stearns Cos. and Merrill Lynch
& Co. and the bankruptcy filing of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.  Even after record gains in investment-grade corporate bonds
globally the past three years, investor appetite for bank debt
hasn’t recovered as the U.S.-led crisis shifted to Europe’s
debt-hobbled governments.  Losing Confidence  The  extra premium  that investors demand to own bank debt
globally instead of the debentures of industrial companies has
averaged 103 basis points in the more than three years since
reaching a record 282 basis points in March 2009, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. The gap stood at 114
basis points on June 8.  From 2000 to 2007, bank bond spreads averaged 52 basis
points less than industrial debt, the index data show.  Investors have been losing confidence in banks’ ability to
profit as the global economy again weakens and regulation
increases, Tony Smith, a senior director at the Moody’s unit
that calculates implied ratings, wrote in a report on June 7.  The average cost to protect against losses on the debt of
the six-biggest U.S. banks has jumped 86 basis points from this
year’s low in March to 257 basis points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg and data provider CMA. The average, which
soared to a record 453 in October 2008, the month after Lehman
Brothers filed for bankruptcy, reached 360 in November.  Economy Wagers  Credit-default swaps on Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and
BNP Paribas imply those banks should be rated Ba1, the top level
of junk. Bank of America faces a downgrade to Baa2, Goldman
Sachs could be cut two levels to A3 and BNP faces a two-step
drop to A2.  Moody’s analysts derive implied ratings from prices on
bonds and credit-default swaps, gauging market values for a
particular company against the broader market.  Part of the discrepancy may be accounted for by traders
using the contracts to bet on the health of the economy, rather
than on the riskiness of the banks, according to Randy Woodbury,
a portfolio manager and trader at  Des Moines , Iowa-based
Principal Global Investors, which manages about $258 billion in
assets. Investors are wary of brokerages that can’t draw heavily
on deposits and are more exposed to global threats, he said.  “The market is trying to become comfortable with the fact
that this part of the industry is more of a BBB type than the AA
it used to be,” Woodbury said. “Investors are struggling to
figure out what is the appropriate risk they want to be
compensated for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  