-- Greece Threatens Wall Street Jobs in Third Trading Plunge
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-06-11T15:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/greece-threatens-wall-street-jobs-in-third-trading-plunge.html
Wall Street bankers and traders,
given hope by a market rebound in the first quarter, are now
seeing earnings and paychecks threatened by turmoil in Greece in
what is becoming an annual cycle.  For a third consecutive year, revenue from  investment
banking  and trading at U.S. firms may fall at least 30 percent
from the first quarter,  Richard Ramsden , a  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  analyst, said in a note last week. Greece, which gave
English the word “cycle,” has been the main reason each year
that the second quarter soured after a promising first three
months.  Deal volume has dropped and equity and credit markets have
fallen on concern that Greece may abandon the euro and the
European sovereign-debt crisis will spread to nations including
Spain. Those economic issues cut profit, bonuses and jobs at
Wall Street firms in last year’s second half and threaten to do
the same in 2012.  “It’s going to be a tough summer at least, and it does
feel like the last couple years all over again,” said  David Konrad , an analyst at KBW Inc. in  New York . “The bank
valuations seem unfairly discounted, but investors are looking
at this year and saying, ‘I’m not going to fall for this
again.’”  Stiffer Rules  Greece is compounding the impact of stiffer capital rules
and trading restrictions for banks imposed after 2008’s credit
crisis. Those measures already were fueling concern that the
industry may be locked in a long-term slump. Combined trading
and investment-banking revenue at the five biggest Wall Street
banks --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Morgan Stanley -- is likely to drop
from a year earlier for the seventh time in eight quarters,
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The five banks generated about $33 billion from those
businesses in the first three months of the year, excluding
accounting charges. That was led by $20 billion from fixed-
income trading.  Revenue from trading typically peaks in the first quarter
in part because corporations raise more debt at the beginning of
the year, stoking fixed-income operations, said  Roger Freeman ,
an analyst at Barclays Plc.  Still, a normal seasonal decline for fixed-income trading
revenue in the second quarter is 15 percent, while this year
probably will be 30 percent to 40 percent, Goldman Sachs’s
Ramsden said. Last year, the second-quarter drop for U.S. firms
was about 31 percent, while in 2010 it was more than 40 percent.  ‘Deja Vu’  Those declines were followed by weak third and fourth
quarters that featured investment-banking and trading revenues
more than 40 percent off the first-quarter pace. The chances of
that trend recurring this year look “increasingly likely,”
 Kian Abouhossein , an analyst at New York-based JPMorgan, wrote
in a note last month.  “Deja vu all over again?” Matt Burnell, a Wells Fargo &
Co. analyst, wrote in a June 6 report as he cut profit estimates
for the five banks by an average 30 percent. “After a
relatively upbeat start to 2012, it now appears that this will
be the third consecutive year of a spring/summer swoon.”  Eleven analysts reduced  earnings estimates  for New York-
based Goldman Sachs in the past four weeks, and six have trimmed
Citigroup’s, Bloomberg’s survey shows.  The five banks face an environment with lower trading
volume, wider credit spreads and heightened volatility. The
firms likely will report trading revenue that fell a median of
33 percent from the first quarter, Matthew O’Connor, an analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a May 25 note.  Corporate Bonds  Dollar volume of high-yield corporate bonds has declined 10
percent from the first quarter, while the volume of investment-
grade bonds dropped 13 percent, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. Average daily  equity-trading volume  on the largest
U.S. exchanges is up 1 percent from the first quarter.  Trading volume, an indicator of performance, may not
correlate directly with firms’ revenue because banks also can
profit from changes in the value of the securities they hold and
transaction fees that may not be related to volume.  Banks also face widening spreads, which occur when prices
of corporate bonds fall relative to government debt. That often
leads to losses in bonds that banks hold as trading inventory.  Spreads between global company bonds and comparable
government debt widened 35 basis points in the first two months
of the quarter to 233 basis points, or 2.33 percentage points,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index. That has reversed more than half the 69 basis-
point tightening that occurred in the first quarter.  Volatility Index  U.S. high-yield bond spreads widened 0.97 percentage point
to 6.96 percent in the first two months of the second quarter,
according to Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II Index.  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX) , or
VIX, which measures the cost of buying insurance against drops
in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 , had an average price of 20.02 so
far in the second quarter, up from 18.20 in the first quarter
and 16.76 a year earlier.  Typically, volatility brings spikes in trading volume as
money managers change holdings in response to the environment.
That hasn’t happened in recent months, Freeman said.  “The bouts of volatility aren’t driving a lot of volume
because, for the most part, portfolios have remained pretty
defensive and utilized little leverage, so there’s not much
portfolio churning or repositioning,” he said. “The stability
in the first quarter wasn’t long enough to drive a risk
upgrade.”  ‘Cyclical Business’  Greece  is prompting declines as banks face questions about
whether they’re experiencing a so-called secular, or lasting,
shift in their capital-markets businesses amid new regulations
and slower global growth. The industry will see little-to-no
growth in the total revenue pool over the next few years and
needs to cut 20 percent to 30 percent of its managers, Boston
Consulting Group Inc. said in an April 26 report.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, and
Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, are among top bankers
to argue the current slowdown is a cyclical decline that will
bounce back.  “We’re in a cyclical business, we’ve always said we’re in
a cyclical business,” Goldman Sachs President  Gary Cohn , 51,
said at an investor conference last month. “And we’re in that
part of the cycle where our client base is tending to be more
conservative than it is in the up parts of the cycle.”  Credit Downgrades  Moody’s Investors Service is conducting a review of banks
with the biggest capital-markets operations and has said it will
announce decisions on credit downgrades this month. All five
firms may be downgraded, with  Morgan Stanley (MS)  facing a three-
level cut, as Moody’s said the industry is facing more
regulation, weak markets and fragile funding and confidence.  If revenue remains low, banks will likely be forced to make
additional cost cuts through lower pay and firings, analysts
said. Trading units at the large banks may need to cut 10
percent of their staff, said  David Trone , an analyst at JMP
Securities LLC.  Banks already scaled back as revenue slumped last year.
About 14 percent of investment-bank employees got no bonus for
2011, up from 6 percent the year before, according to a report
by executive-search firm Options Group released last week. The
financial industry also announced more than 200,000 job cuts,
led by Bank of America and London-based HSBC Holdings Plc, which
each said they will eliminate 30,000 positions.  “I wouldn’t expect to see something that significant, but
quietly trimming groups of people, that’s probably already
happening,” said Shannon Stemm, an analyst with Edward Jones &
Co. in  St. Louis .  Revenue Prospects  Goldman Sachs cut fewer than 50 jobs about two weeks ago to
trim expenses as the bank’s revenue prospects worsen, a person
familiar with the matter said. New York-based Morgan Stanley is
preparing to cut some employees in its trading business,
according to two people with knowledge of the plans.  “It’s not like normal downturns where you’re coming off a
peak and you get a lot of excess people,” Trone said in an
interview last week on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” program. “I don’t think cost cuts are a good lever at
this point. You’ll get a little out of it, but not much.”  The  S&P 500 Financials Index (S5FINL)  of 81 companies has fallen 11
percent this quarter after climbing 21 percent in the first
period. Morgan Stanley  has dropped  30 percent this quarter,
while JPMorgan, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Bank of America
have all declined more than 21 percent.  The index slid 0.1 percent at 10:08 a.m. in New York as all
five banks fell.  ‘Breathing Room’  Investors still have interest in the group because the
stocks have shown large moves to the upside as well, Konrad
said. From Dec. 8, the day the  European Central Bank  announced
its longer-term refinancing operation to help provide liquidity
to the region’s lenders, through the end of March, the five
banks jumped an average of 39 percent, led by Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America’s 71 percent surge.  “The tough part for investors is it would be tempting just
to say ‘I’m going to walk away from the group,’ but we’ve also
seen these stocks can move up 30 percent on just some more
breathing room,” Konrad said. “Because the capital and
liquidity is so strong at these financials, any program that the
market likes coming out of Europe is going to have a strong
impact on the valuations.”  Spokesmen for the five banks declined to comment or didn’t
return requests for comment.  The concern that Europe’s debt crisis will spread or that
the economic union would splinter has crimped deal activity as
well, Stemm said.  ‘Get Smacked’  Global equity issuance is on pace to be down 8 percent from
the first quarter and 29 percent from the second period of 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance of U.S. bonds
is on pace to fall 39 percent from the first quarter and 11
percent from last year’s second quarter. Announced mergers and
acquisitions are on pace to drop 25 percent from a year earlier.  That will lead to the banks reporting investment-banking
revenue about 10 percent lower than in the first quarter,
O’Connor estimates. The number of events that have produced
market turbulence also is having a cumulative effect on
companies and investors, Freeman said.  “Every time investors -- institutional, corporate and
retail -- get smacked with one of these bouts of volatility, it
feels like the recovery time is a little longer, a little slower
spring effect,” Freeman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  