-- Greentown Rises Most on Record After Wharf Deal: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-11T08:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/greentown-posts-record-gain-after-wharf-deal-hong-kong-mover.html
Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900)  rose
by a record in Hong Kong trading after  Wharf Holdings Ltd. (4) 
agreed to invest HK$5.1 billion ($657 million) in the developer,
easing concerns of a funding squeeze.  Greentown  surged  33 percent to HK$7.09 at close of local
trading, the biggest advance on the broader  Hang Seng Composite
Index (HSCI) , after saying it will sell shares and convertible bonds to
Hong Kong-based Wharf. Shares of the Hong Kong landlord climbed
2.2 percent to HK$44, the highest since May 8.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. upgraded its rating on Greentown
to buy, saying the transaction could help ease concerns about
“balance sheet risks” that led to a de-rating of the stock
against peers. Greentown is among the 11 Chinese developers with
the weakest liquidity, according to Moody’s Investors Service,
citing the outcome of stress tests conducted last month, as a
government campaign to curb property prices dried up funding.  “The deal was an important step for Greentown to improve
its high gearing and cash flow,” said  Eric Zhang , a Beijing-
based property analyst at  China  International Capital Corp., the
country’s biggest investment bank, who upgraded the stock to
accumulate. “But it is just the beginning. Whether the company
can achieve that, it has a long way to go, including enhancing
its sales performance.”  Greentown’s debt is almost four times its equity, the third
highest among 60 of its closest peers in China’s real estate
industry, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The company based in Hangzhou in eastern Zhejiang province
joins Chinese developers selling land and other holdings for
cash as government curbs to avoid the formation of an asset
bubble weigh on prices. The share sale will give Wharf more
access to projects in the country and allow it to rely less on
 Hong Kong , the world’s most expensive place to buy a home and to
rent an office.  Weak Liquidity  Wharf would  hold  24.6 percent of Greentown after the stock
purchase, and raise that to 35.1 percent should it convert the
notes, according to last week’s statement.  Moody’s estimates the 29 developers on its rating list need
to repay 159 billion  yuan  ($25 billion) of short-term debt this
year, the most in data going back to 2008, according to a May 23
report. Eleven of the companies face “weak forecasted
liquidity,” up from four at the end of December, Moody’s said.  Home prices  fell in a record 46 of 70 Chinese cities in
April and the People’s Bank of China cut its benchmark  interest
rates  on June 8 for the first time since 2008.  Curbs on the  property market  will remain and the housing
ministry will stop local governments from easing policies to
encourage “unreasonable” purchases, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported on June 5. There are no plans for stimulus
measures on the scale announced in 2008, Xinhua said May 29.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  