-- Guantanamo Prisoner Appeals Rejected by U.S. High Court
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2012-06-11T14:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/guantanamo-prisoner-appeals-rejected-by-u-s-high-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  declined to
buttress the rights of Guantanamo Bay inmates, rejecting seven
appeals from prisoners being held at the American military base
in Cuba.  In each case the justices let stand a ruling from the U.S.
appeals court handling Guantanamo cases. That court has
repeatedly ruled against inmates seeking release, blunting the
force of Supreme Court rulings that gave the prisoners access to
federal courts.  The Supreme Court has ruled in favor of Guantanamo inmates
three times. Most recently the court said in 2008 that judges
must have the power to order the release of Guantanamo prisoners
improperly detained.  The appeals that were denied review today turned on the
procedures used by federal trial judges to determine whether
inmates are being lawfully held.  In one case, Fayiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari was accused by
the U.S. of being in Tora Bora in  Afghanistan  during the battle
there following the Sept. 11 attacks. The government said he
received training and a rifle and associated with leaders of al-
Qaeda or the Taliban.  In his appeal, Kandari objected to the use of so-called
hearsay evidence rather than testimony from people with first-
hand knowledge of his activities. Although U.S. courts generally
don’t permit hearsay evidence, the appeals court said judges
could consider it for detainees at the American naval base in
Cuba.  ‘Open Disdain’  The appeals court “demonstrated open disdain” for the
Supreme Court’s 2008 ruling and reduced procedural protections
for Guantanamo inmates “down to almost nothing,” Kandari’s
appeal said.  A second inmate, Musa’ab Al-Madhwani, attended an al-Qaeda
training camp and was captured while hiding with al-Qaeda
members in  Pakistan , the government said. The appeals court said
government lawyers showed he was part of al-Qaeda and didn’t
need to prove he was a member of the organization’s “command
structure.”  Al-Madhwani’s appeal said lower courts “have erected
insurmountable barriers” to Guantanamo inmates’ challenges to
their detention.  The cases are Al-Bihani v. Obama, 10-1383; Uthman v. Obama,
11-413; Almerfedi v. Obama, 11-683; Latif v. Obama, 11-1027; Al
Kandari v. U.S., 11-1054; Al-Madhwani v. Obama, 11-7020, and
Alwi v. Obama, 11-7700.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  