-- Gupta Prosecutor Attacks Defense Claim Loeb Was Tipper
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-11T23:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/gupta-prosecutor-uses-cross-examination-to-attack-loeb-defense.html
A prosecutor in the insider-trading
trial of  Rajat Gupta  used his questioning of a defense witness
to attack the ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director’s claim that
another bank executive was the source of illegal tips.  In the first full day of the defense case, Gupta’s lawyers
called Richard Schutte, the former president of Galleon Group
LLC’s domestic unit, to testify about the relationship between
the fund and Goldman Sachs in late 2008. Gupta is accused of
leaking stock tips about the bank to Galleon co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , and the defense is trying to show that Galleon had
other sources -- both legal and illegal -- of information about
Goldman Sachs.  Rajaratnam got some of his illegal tips from  David Loeb ,
Goldman Sachs’s head of Asia equity sales in  New York , defense
attorney Gary Naftalis has said in court. On cross-examination
of Schutte, Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky tried to show
that Loeb wasn’t Rajaratnam’s source of information about
Goldman Sachs.  “Is it fair to say that Mr. Loeb, in any of the e-mails
distributed to you, did not provide any information about
Goldman Sachs?” Brodsky asked.  “Yes, that’s fair to say,” Schutte replied.  Brodsky also emphasized that Loeb’s focus was on overseas
stocks, and not U.S. banks.  “Do you know that Mr. Loeb specialized in Asian
equities?” Brodsky asked.  “That’s what I recall,” Schutte said.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on questions about Loeb.  McKinsey & Co.  Gupta, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is accused
of leaking secret tips to Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also a director.  The tips in question involve Goldman Sachs earnings in the
first quarter of 2007 and fourth quarter of 2008. Another
involves a $5 billion  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  investment in
Goldman Sachs on Sept. 23, 2008. Prosecutors also say Gupta told
Rajaratnam that Cincinnati-based P&G planned to sell its Folgers
Coffee unit to J.M. Smucker Co.  Naftalis has argued that “the wrong man” is on trial and
has pointed to Loeb, who hasn’t been accused by the government
of wrongdoing. On May 23, Brodsky said in court, after jurors
had left, that Loeb passed tips about  Intel Corp ., Apple Inc.
and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  to Rajaratnam.  Schutte testified for the defense last year in the trial of
Rajaratnam, who was convicted of  insider trading  and sentenced
to 11 years in prison.  Goldman Sachs  Schutte, who previously worked at Goldman Sachs, testified
today about the close relationship between the firm and Galleon,
telling jurors that Galleon paid Goldman Sachs as much as $35
million in commissions and fees annually. Defense lawyers argue
that Galleon had legitimate sources of information about Goldman
Sachs.  At a July 31, 2008, meeting with senior Goldman Sachs
executives including President  Gary Cohn , for instance, Schutte
said Rajaratnam asked about the likelihood that the firm would
purchase a commercial bank. Gupta is accused of tipping
Rajaratnam on Goldman Sachs’s discussions about buying a
commercial bank or an insurance company.  Cohn said it was unlikely, telling the Galleon executives,
“The problem is, you don’t know what you’re getting.”  Goldman Sachs had also discussed the issue with Wall Street
analysts, the defense said.  Spottail Capital  Schutte told jurors today that Rajaratnam made a
$25 million investment in a fund he managed, Spottail Capital
Advisers LLC, after Galleon closed. Since Rajaratnam’s trial
last year, the convicted  fund manager  has withdrawn $10 million
from the fund, Schutte said.  The defense may rest tomorrow. Closing arguments will begin
June 13, Rakoff said.  Since they began calling witnesses, defense lawyers have
called four character witnesses, including Anil Sood, 62, a
childhood friend of the defendant’s who testified he’s known
Gupta for 53 years and attended middle, high school and college
with him in  India .  “I have always admired Rajat,” said Sood, a former World
Bank official. “He is straightforward, honest, truthful, and
inspires confidence.”  Defense lawyers also called Suprotik Basu, 34, a United
Nations special envoy for malaria, who described a meeting he
attended with Gupta involving the UN on the afternoon of Sept.
23, 2008.  Board Meeting  Prosecutors allege that Gupta participated in the Goldman
Sachs board meeting via telephone where directors approved the
Berkshire Hathaway investment. Within minutes of hanging up the
phone from the Goldman Sachs call at 3:54 p.m., prosecutors say
Gupta called Rajaratnam, who then traded on the tip.  Gupta was in Basu’s offices in  Manhattan  where he
participated in a meeting with UN officials that day between 5
p.m. to 5:45 p.m., he testified.  “After that meeting, did Mr. Gupta say anything to you
about Goldman Sachs?” Naftalis asked.  “No we were focusing on the meeting in two days and to
close our funding gap,” Basu said.  “Did he say anything to you about  Warren Buffett ?”
Naftalis asked.  ‘No, he did not,’’ he said.  An Opinion  The defense lawyer also asked Basu if he’d formed an
opinion about Gupta.  “I consider Rajat to be one of the most honest, forthright
and giving gentlemen that I know,” Basu told jurors.  On cross-examination by Brodsky, Basu said he didn’t know
anything about Gupta’s relationship with Rajaratnam and wasn’t
aware of any business dealings Gupta had with the fund manager.  When the trial recessed on June 8, lawyers for Gupta said
it was “very likely” he would testify. Yesterday, defense
attorney  Gary Naftalis  wrote a letter to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff informing him that Gupta wouldn’t testify.  This morning as court began, Rakoff asked defense lawyer
 David Frankel  who his next witness would be. Naftalis wasn’t in
the courtroom.  Frankel, who wasn’t immediately certain, started to say
“It is one of --”  “Who is it?” Rakoff demanded, cutting him off. “I’m
tired of this ‘one-of.’”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  