-- IATA Doubles Loss Forecast for Europe Airlines on Crisis
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-11T01:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/iata-doubles-europe-loss-forecast-sees-threat-to-global-profit.html
The  International Air Transport
Association  almost doubled its 2012 loss forecast for European
airlines and said the continent’s debt crisis could wipe out an
expected global profit.  Carriers in Europe may lose $1.1 billion this year,
compared with a March forecast for a $600 million loss, the
airline body said today at its annual meeting in Beijing. It
reiterated a forecast for a $3 billion global profit. The
worldwide estimate could be reduced if the European economy
worsens more than expected, the group said.  “If there’s a full-blown crisis, all bets are off,”  Tony Tyler , head of IATA, which represents about 240 carriers, said
in a Bloomberg TV interview yesterday. “It will have a big
impact on the world economy and a huge impact on airlines.”  Global profits are already set to fall from $7.9 billion
last year, as recessions in the U.K.,  Spain  and other European
countries damp demand and erode gains from lower fuel prices.
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group and  International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , Europe’s three biggest full-
service carriers, have all announced plans to cut staff or
restructure operations following first-quarter losses.  “Europe slipping into a recession is obviously not to be
welcomed,” said  Andrew Herdman , the head of the  Association of
Asia Pacific Airlines . For Asian carriers there is “a contagion
effect of reading about political uncertainty and economic
slowdown elsewhere.”  Asia Forecast  IATA cut its forecast for Asia-Pacific carriers’ earnings
to $2 billion from $2.3 billion. Slower growth in China and
 India  are also damping travel, the group said. The region’s
airlines, which made a $4.9 billion profit last year, have
benefited little from a pick-up in cargo shipments, it said.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  posted a loss in the quarter
through March and  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  has said its
first-half earnings will be “disappointing.”  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s largest carrier, has forecast its first annual
net loss since listing in 1995.  IATA raised its profit forecast for North American carriers
to $1.4 billion from $900 million. The airlines will boost
earnings from $1.3 billion last year as they refrain from adding
many flights amid a 0.5 percent growth in demand, the slowest
pace worldwide, the group said.  “Growth in capacity has remained reasonably low,” Tyler
said. The carriers “are making good money” on a regional basis.  Oil Forecast  IATA based its earnings forecast on the assumption that
 Brent crude  will average $110 this year. That’s down from $115
in March. Fuel will account for about 33 percent of airline
costs, the same proportion as in 2008 when global  oil prices 
spiked, the group said.  The industry body boosted its forecast for global travel
demand growth to 4.8 percent from 4.2 percent after a better-
than-expected first quarter. It raised its estimate for global
economic growth to 2.1 percent from 2.0 percent.  An air-cargo slump has also ended because of rising
confidence in economies outside of  Europe , IATA said. Volumes
will be little changed this year at 47.8 million tons, it said.
International volumes fell 0.6 percent last year, IATA said in
February.  Middle East carriers’ profit this year will fall to $400
million from $1 billion last year, partly because of slower
demand for long-haul flights in Europe, IATA said. The group
forecast a $500 million regional profit in March.  IATA raised its Latin American profit forecast to $400
million from $100 million because of a turnaround in the
previously unprofitable Brazil market. The region had a $300
million profit last year. African carriers will lose $100
million this year after breaking even in 2011, IATA said. That’s
unchanged from the previous forecast.  --Stephen Engle, Andrea Rothman and Jasmine Wang, with
assistance from Christine Hah and Tian Ying in Beijing 
and Karolina Miziolek in  Hong Kong . Editors: Neil Denslow,
Robert Fenner  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  