-- IEA Calls for More Funds to Support Carbon Capture Technology
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-11T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/iea-calls-for-more-funds-to-support-carbon-capture-technology.html
Governments must increase funds to
support  carbon capture  and storage technology and ramp up
efforts to improve  energy efficiency  or risk missing climate
change targets, the  International Energy Agency  warned.  Progress in deploying nine out of 10 technologies that curb
carbon emissions and reduce energy use is stalling, the Paris-
based agency, which advises 28 nations, said today in a report.  Greater use of electric vehicles and pollution-trapping CCS
equipment are needed to cut energy-related CO2 emissions by half
by 2050, according to the IEA. That’s required to ensure an 80
percent chance of limiting the average global temperature rise
to 2 degrees Celsius, it said. The IEA reiterated that about
$140 trillion will be required to shift to a low-carbon  energy
industry  by 2050.  “Continued heavy reliance on a narrow set of technologies
and fossil fuels is a significant threat to  energy security ,
stable economic growth and global welfare, as well as to the
environment,” Executive Director Maria van der Hoeven said in
the report.  Public funding for CCS, which could account for about 20
percent of the required CO2 reductions by 2050 and involves the
permanent storage of emissions underground, is inadequate, the
report said. Energy efficiency technologies are impeded by a
lack of incentives and “non-economic” barriers, according to
the report.  CCS technology allows industry such as iron and steel and
natural gas processing to meet “deep” emissions cutting goals,
according to the IEA.  The agency said 38 projects that fit CCS to power
generation are required by 2020 to reach climate goals while
none operate now. More progress is also needed in less mature
renewable technologies such as offshore wind and concentrated
solar power, according to the IEA.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  