-- LightSquared Reaches Loan Agreement, Negotiating Cash Use
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-06-11T21:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/lightsquared-reaches-loan-agreement-negotiating-cash-use.html
LightSquared Inc. reached an
agreement with one group of lenders for a loan and is in talks
with other debt holders to use their cash collateral in a bid to
avoid liquidation, a lawyer for the company said.  LightSquared is seeking permission from a group that owns
$1.1 billion of debt in its so-called LP unit to use
$190 million in collateral, the lawyer, Matthew Barr, told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in  Manhattan  today. Chapman
adjourned the hearing until tomorrow to allow the parties more
time to negotiate after saying a productive meeting took place
today during a court break.  The company, backed by  Philip Falcone , has been in a
dispute with the debt-holders group since the outset of its
Chapter 11 case.  “We’re certainly not intending to shut the debtor down at
this point,”  Thomas Lauria , a lawyer for the group, told
Chapman.  LightSquared has found the LP lenders’ offers so far to be
“untenable,” Barr told Chapman. Without permission to use
cash, LightSquared “would be forced to terminate its business
operations and liquidate its assets,” the maker of wireless
broadband technology has said in court papers.  LightSquared separately agreed with lenders to its “Inc.”
unit on a so-called debtor-in-possession loan that will allow
the company to fund some operations in bankruptcy, Barr said. He
said he would give details later in today’s court hearing. After
a break for negotiations with the LP lenders, the hearing was
adjourned without further appearance from Barr.  Appaloosa, Fortress  The LP lender group includes Capital Research & Management
Co., Appaloosa Management LP and  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG) 
U.S. Bank NA is an agent to lenders to its so-called Inc. unit,
which owes $322.3 million.  The lender group had said the company could use its cash
only under certain restrictions, without which there isn’t
enough evidence that the company won’t waste its assets, because
LightSquared still needs approval from the  Federal
Communications Commission  to move forward with its plan to offer
wireless broadband and have a viable business.  Separately today, Chapman approved the company’s request to
hire advisers including Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP as
the company’s main bankruptcy counsel and Alvarez & Marsal Inc.
as a financial adviser.  GPS Networks  LightSquared filed for bankruptcy May 14, saying it would
seek a resolution with U.S. regulators who thwarted the
company’s plan to deliver high-speed wireless to as many as
260 million people over concerns that it interferes with GPS
networks.  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , listed assets of
$4.48 billion and debt of $2.29 billion as of Feb. 29 in its
Chapter 11 filing. The filing followed intense negotiations with
creditors, who had requested that Falcone step aside.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  