-- Lilly Targets Sanofi Diabetes Top-Seller on Weight Loss
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/lilly-targets-sanofi-diabetes-top-seller-on-weight-loss.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  may have an edge in
the $20 billion diabetes market with its novel drug that matches
Sanofi’s top-seller Lantus at controlling blood sugar while
helping patients lose weight.  Patients with  Type 2 diabetes  taking Lilly’s experimental
insulin lost an average of 1.28 pounds after 12 weeks compared
with a weight gain of 0.68 pounds with Lantus, according to data
released at the American Diabetes Association meeting.  The new therapy, known by the scientific name LY2605541, is
being developed with Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH as part of a deal
the two companies struck in 2011 to work on diabetes drugs. If
similar results are found in a larger study, it may be the first
insulin to help patients lose weight, providing an edge over
Lantus and an experimental treatment from  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , said
 Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group.  “Even modest, but real,  weight loss  could be a major
commercial advantage over other basal insulins, in our
opinion,” Schoenebaum said in a note to clients.  It’s not clear how the experimental insulin is causing
weight loss. Most insulin causes slight weight gain, a
particular problem for patients with Type 2 diabetes, who are
usually overweight, said David Kendall, a medical fellow at
Indianapolis-based Lilly.  “Insulin therapy in particular are important to improve
glucose control and to do so as safely as possible,” Kendall
said in a telephone interview. “We want to understand the
weight-loss mechanism.”  Further Testing  The studies released yesterday at the diabetes meeting are
the second of three stages of testing generally required to gain
U.S. approval. The insulin now is being tested in five Phase 3
studies. Data from those studies may be submitted to regulators
as early as 2014, said Enrique Conterno, the president of
Lilly’s diabetes unit.  Lilly plans more studies to determine what’s causing the
weight loss, Kendall said.  More than 8 percent of Americans, or 25.8 million people,
have diabetes, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention. Among those diagnosed, 26 percent are taking
insulin to treat their condition, according to the CDC.  Lantus generated $5.45 billion in  sales  last year,
accounting for about 12 percent of Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN) ’s revenue.  Study Results  Lilly said its insulin worked better after eight weeks at
lowering blood sugar than Lantus in Type 1 diabetes, also known
as juvenile diabetes, in which the body doesn’t produce insulin.
The treatment worked similarly to Lantus over 12 weeks in
patients with Type 2 diabetes, a condition where the body
doesn’t produce enough insulin or ignores the insulin.  Just 5 percent of people with diabetes have the Type 1 form
of the disease.  Patients taking the Lilly insulin had an increase in liver
enzymes, a potential sign of liver damage, compared with those
taking Lantus in the study. Type 1 diabetes patients on the
Lilly treatment had an increase in cholesterol levels.  Lilly also said experimental drug empagliflozin alone or
with the older drug metformin reduced fasting blood sugar levels
and weight in patients with Type 2 diabetes who took the drug
for 90 weeks. The medicine also helped patients lose weight. The
class of drugs is known to be weight-neutral or cause slight
weight loss.  Empagliflozin is in Phase 3 testing, with data that may be
submitted as soon as 2013 if the studies are successful, said
Tamara Hull, a Lilly spokeswoman. Results from those trials will
be available “in the next couple of months,” said  John Smith ,
senior vice president for clinical development medical affairs
at Ingelheim, Germany-based Boehringer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  