-- Indian Stocks Snap Five-Day Advance on Rating Concerns
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-06-11T13:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/indian-stocks-snap-five-day-advance-on-rating-concerns.html
Indian stocks ended five days of
gains and the rupee weakened as  Standard & Poor’s  warned the
country could lose its investment-grade rating due to slowing
growth and political roadblocks to economic policy-making. Bonds
gained.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the biggest engineering company, lost
2 percent, the most since June 1. India could become the first
BRIC nation to lose the rating, the rating agency said in a
statement.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  lost 1.6 percent, pacing losses
among four-wheeler makers on concern car sales may slow.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, lost 0.3 percent
to 16,668.01 at close in Mumbai, reversing an intraday gain of
1.1 percent. The rupee weakened 0.5 percent to 55.73 a dollar,
the lowest level since June 8. The Sensex had the year’s best
weekly advance last week on speculation the central bank will
join regional policy makers in cutting rates to revive growth.  “S&P’s comments proved to be a sentiment spoiler,” said
Aneesh Srivastava, who oversees about $470 million in assets as
chief investment officer at IDBI Federal Life Insurance Co. in
Mumbai. “S&P has reiterated the points it made in April. The
market will look beyond this day and focus on the situation in
 Europe  and domestic economic data due in the next few days.”  India’s  gross domestic product  expanded 5.3 percent in the
March quarter from a year ago, the weakest pace in nine years,
stoking concern the nation’s economic outlook has deteriorated
as policy stalemate deters investment and Europe’s debt crisis
crimps exports. S&P cut the nation’s credit outlook to negative
from stable in April, dealing a further blow to Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s development agenda.  ‘Reversals’  Singh’s efforts to allow greater investments from overseas
insurers, pension funds and retailers in the past year have been
rejected by his coalition allies, dampening investments.  “Setbacks or reversals in India’s path toward a more
liberal economy could hurt its long-term growth prospects and,
therefore, its  credit quality ,” Joydeep Mukherji, an analyst at
S&P in  New York , said in the statement.  The agency’s long-term sovereign credit rating on India is
BBB-, one level above speculative grade. Aside from India, the
BRIC group also includes Brazil, Russia and China.  The Sensex rose as much as 1.1 earlier today amid optimism
the  Reserve Bank  of India would cut rates at a policy meeting on
June 18 and as Asian stocks rallied after China’s trade data
beat estimates and Spain sought a bailout for its banks, a sign
Europe is tackling a crisis that has roiled global markets.  Rate-Cut Room  The economic slowdown, coupled with a drop in  oil prices ,
suggest more room for rate cuts even as inflation risks remain,
RBI Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said June 1 and reiterated his
position on June 4.  The yield on the benchmark bonds maturing in 2021 fell to a
three-month low as debt purchases and speculation borrowing
costs will be cut buoyed demand.  The Reserve Bank of  India  will buy a maximum of 120 billion
rupees of notes at an auction tomorrow, according to a statement
from the monetary authority. The RBI has already bought 321
billion rupees of bonds this fiscal year that began April 1.  The yield on the government’s 8.79 percent bonds due
November 2021 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 8.33 percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system. That was the lowest level since March 14.  The RBI cut borrowing costs on April 17 for the first time
in three years after increasing them a record 13 times from mid-
March 2010 to October last year to cool consumer prices, which
averaged 9.5 percent in 2011.  Factory Data  India’s factory output probably grew 1.7 percent in April,
compared with a decline of 3.5 percent in March, according to
the median estimate of 31 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
government will release the data tomorrow.  Inflation may have accelerated for a second month to 7.5
percent in May, from 7.23 percent in April, according to the
median estimate of 31 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The data
will be published on June 14.  The rupee dropped 0.5 percent after earlier rising as much
as 0.7 percent. The currency fell to 55.82 intraday, the lowest
level since June 5.  “Investors have taken this explicit statement quite
negatively and we could see further weakness from here unless we
have appropriate responses from the authorities,” said Ravi
Ranjit, chief manager at Federal Bank Ltd. in Mumbai.  Valuations Narrow  The 30-stock Sensex has advanced 7.9 percent this year and
 trades  at 13 times estimated earnings, near the lowest in more
than three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
 compares with  the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 9.9 times.  India VIX, which measures the cost of protection against
losses in the S&P CNX Nifty Index, surged 6.6 percent to 25.02,
the most since May 23. The Nifty slid 0.3 percent to 5,054.10
while its June futures settled at 5,052.60. The  BSE-200 Index (BSE200) 
lost 0.4 percent to 2,046.49.  Larsen slumped 2 percent to 1,283.25 rupees, the most since
June 1 and  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , India’s largest power-
equipment maker, tumbled 2.4 percent to 215.9 rupees.  Tata Motors, the owner of luxury brands Jaguar Land Rover,
dropped 1.6 percent to 235.5 rupees.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) ,
the biggest carmaker, fell 1.2 percent to 1,110.5 rupees.  India’s automakers group may cut its annual sales forecast
at a review next month after passenger car sales growth slowed
in May as gasoline prices rose to a record and borrowing costs
remained high.  “Demand for cars may move into negative territory because
the overall  market sentiment  is very negative,”  Vishnu Mathur ,
director general of the  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers , told reporters in  New Delhi . “ Interest rates 
aren’t going down as quickly as we expected and petrol prices
have gone up tremendously.”  Overseas investors were net buyers of local shares on June
8, purchasing a net $51 million of stocks, data from the market
regulator show. Foreigners cut holdings by $273 million in May,
a second month of net sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  