-- India’s Car Sales May Slow on Gasoline, Interest Costs
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-06-11T07:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/india-s-car-sales-may-slow-on-gasoline-interest-costs.html
India ’s automakers group may reduce
its annual sales forecast at a review next month after  passenger
car sales  growth slowed in May as gasoline prices rose to a
record and borrowing costs remained high.  “Demand for passenger cars may move into negative
territory because the overall  market sentiment  is very
negative,”  Vishnu Mathur , director general of the  Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers , told reporters in New Delhi
today. “ Interest rates  aren’t going down as quickly as we
expected and petrol prices have gone up tremendously.”  The industry group, which in April estimated car sales will
gain as much as 12 percent in the year ending March 31, plans to
review its forecast after May sales fell at  Maruti Suzuki India
Ltd. (MSIL) , and the Indian units of Ford Motor Co. and  General Motors
Co. (GM)  because of the first gasoline price increase in almost 6
months. The group cut its car sales growth forecast three times
in the year ended March 31, 2012.  State-owned oil firms led by  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  raised prices
on gasoline by 7.5 rupees ($0.14) in New Delhi to 73.18 rupees a
liter in May. Even after a 2 rupee  cut in gasoline prices  in
June, gasoline is 74 percent more expensive than subsidized
diesel, prompting demand to shift to vehicles powered by the
cheaper fuel.  Deliveries of passenger cars gained 2.8 percent to 163,229
in May, the industry group said today. High borrowing costs and
fuel prices damped demand in a nation where almost 80 percent of
all car purchases are funded through bank loans. The  Reserve
Bank  of India cut rates on April 17 for the first time in three
years, after raising it a record 13 times from March 2010 to
October last year to cool accelerating prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  