-- Iraq Says Oil Price Decline Is Severe; Surplus ‘Tremendous’
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-11T17:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/iraq-says-oil-price-decline-is-severe-surplus-tremendous-2-.html
The latest crude price decline has
been severe and there’s “tremendous” surplus in the market,
Iraqi Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said.  “It is very clear that there are tremendous surplus
quantities that led to this severe decline in the prices,” al-
Luaibi said today in Vienna, where he is attending the meeting
of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. “This
would not serve anyone.”  Oil prices  at $100 to $120 are “a reasonable and
acceptable price index,” he told reporters. Brent crude oil
futures are trading near $99 today in London.  OPEC ministers are convening this week to review the
group’s output target of 30 million barrels a day, which members
are exceeding by about 1.9 million barrels, according to the
 International Energy Agency ’s most-recent monthly oil-market
report on May 11. OPEC’s 12 members, led by  Saudi Arabia , supply
about 40 percent of global crude.  There will be no discussion this week of individual quotas
for member nations and it will be “many years” before OPEC
talks about a specific allocation for Iraq’s own production
level, al-Luaibi said.  Oil prices have plunged as Europe’s debt woes intensify,
U.S. unemployment remains stuck above 8 percent and the threat
of a conflict over Iran’s nuclear program recedes. Brent for
July settlement has dropped 17 percent since the beginning of
May on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The July
contract fell 72 cents at $98.75 a barrel today.  Iraq expects to receive final development plans from
international  oil companies  detailing plateau production rates
“in a few months” as the country reviews its long-term output
target, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  