-- Ireland Pursues Debt Gain From Spain’s Banking Pain
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-06-11T08:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/ireland-pursues-debt-gain-from-spain-s-banking-pain.html
Spain ’s difficulty may be Ireland’s
opportunity.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is seeking as much as
100 billion euros ($125 billion) to recapitalize his nation’s
banks. Ireland, locked out of the  bond market  since 2010, says
it may use any leeway won by Spain to seek partial restitution
for the 63 billion euros it spent shoring up its financial
system during the past three years.  Ireland is “perversely hoping for a further worsening of
the situation in other countries in a bid to progress its own
cause,” said  Dermot O’Leary , an economist at Dublin-based
 Goodbody Stockbrokers .  After the  European Central Bank  told the government to save
its banks in 2008, Ireland took over five of the six biggest
domestic lenders. At the ECB’s behest, it’s also repaying senior
bank bond holders. “We were first in the firing line,” Energy
Minister Pat Rabbitte said on June 7. “In order to protect the
European banking system, we took a huge hit. We want recognition
for that.”  Spanish Economy Minister Luis De Guindos, who announced the
aid request June 9 after a three-hour conference call with his
European counterparts, called terms of the rescue “very
favorable” relative to borrowing costs in the market.  Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said last week any latitude
offered to Spain should be available to all euro members. Costs
from Ireland’s banking bailout have swollen the nation’s debts
to about 120 percent of gross domestic product. The  yield  on
Ireland’s 2020 bonds fell 4 basis points in the past week to
7.37 percent, up from this year’s average of 7.16 percent.  Balance Sheets  Both Ireland and Spain’s financial systems have been undone
by collapsing real-estate prices, with Spain’s Rajoy saying as
recently as May 28 that he wouldn’t seek external help.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan , who is leading the
country’s efforts to alleviate its bank debt, said the Spanish
accord will provide “much needed confidence and stability” in
the euro region.  The funds lent to Spain are the responsibility of the
Spanish government, Noonan said. That may be a blow to any Irish
efforts to win a wider accord for its banking sector, leaving
the government to focus on help with the costs of the former
Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  “If we are patient, there may be some kind of deal for
Ireland, perhaps around extending the current repayment schedule
for the Anglo Irish promissory notes,” said Fergal O’Leary, a
director at fixed-income firm Glas Securities in Dublin  Rescue Notes  Ireland committed 34.7 billion euros to rescue Anglo Irish,
now renamed Irish Bank Resolution Corp. The state issued about
30 billion euros of promissory notes in 2010, which the bank
uses as collateral for emergency funds from the central bank.
That commits the government to repay about 3.1 billion euros per
year to the central bank for at least a decade, a schedule
Noonan has suggested he may tap the euro-area rescue fund to
refinance.  Ireland needs to ensure that “any new policy measures
can be retrofitted to suit the efforts that we undertook to bail
out the banks here in Ireland to alleviate the pressure on the
sovereign,”  John Moran , head of the  finance ministry , told
lawmakers.  The cost of insurance against Ireland defaulting using
credit-default swaps fell 14 basis points to 668 in the past
month, according to prices from data provider CMA. That implies
a 45 percent probability of Ireland failing to meet its
obligations within five years.  Sending Signals  Germany  has resisted changes to Ireland’s bailout deal. The
program “is working in exemplary fashion,” German Finance
Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus told reporters on June 5 in
Berlin. “One always has to ask what it means when you change
something,” Kotthaus said. “Which signals does that send; are
these more positive or more negative signals? With that in mind,
I currently don’t see a big need for movement.”  Kenny has pressed for changes to the European Stability
Mechanism, the region’s bailout fund, which currently isn’t
allowed to channel aid to banks. That might not ease the
government’s burden, according to Seamus Coffey, an economics
lecturer at University College Cork.  “ Allied Irish Banks (ALBK)  has cost taxpayers more than 20
billion euros,” said Coffey. “The idea that the ESM would
simply pay Ireland that amount to take it off our hands won’t
work. Even if the ESM were able to take direct stakes in banks,
it would only be able to pay fair market value for the asset to
take account of competition law and other considerations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  