-- J&J Said to Agree to $2.2 Billion Drug Marketing Accord
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k ,   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-06-11T20:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/j-j-said-to-pay-2-2-billion-to-end-risperdal-sales-probe.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  agreed to pay as
much as $2.2 billion to settle U.S. probes of the marketing of
its Risperdal antipsychotic drug and other medications, two
people familiar with the negotiations said.  The settlement, which might be announced this week, will
include a misdemeanor plea and criminal penalty of as much as
$600 million, said the people, who didn’t want to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the
agreement. The accord also would resolve civil claims that J&J
paid kickbacks to  Omnicare Inc. (OCR) , a company that dispenses drugs
at nursing homes, the people said.  The agreement, which wouldn’t end claims by some states,
would be the government’s second-biggest settlement with a
pharmaceutical company, behind a $2.3 billion accord that  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  entered in 2009 to resolve U.S. investigations of improper
marketing of its painkiller Bextra and other drugs.  “This is a gigantic settlement that reflects the
seriousness of the criminal and civil allegations against J&J
over Risperdal and the other drugs,”  Carl Tobias , who teaches
product-liability law at the University of Richmond law school,
said in a phone interview.  The accord covers Risperdal claims by whistle-blowers and
the U.S. and those by most of the states, and it resolves claims
that J&J illegally marketed the heart-failure drug  Natrecor  and
the antipsychotic medication  Invega , the people said.  $600 Million Reserve  J&J officials said June 8 the company was setting aside
$600 million to increase its reserves for potential settlements
of lawsuits over its marketing campaigns for Risperdal and other
drugs. J&J officials added in an e-mailed statement that the
reserve also covered a possible settlement of the Omnicare
kickback claims.  “We can’t comment on this matter,”  Bill Price , a J&J
spokesman, said yesterday.  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, said in an
e-mail that he had no comment.  The U.S. government has been probing Risperdal sales
practices since 2004, including allegations the company marketed
the drug for unapproved uses, J&J has said in U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission filings. The company also has said in
securities filings that it is negotiating with the U.S. to
resolve the investigation.  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, disclosed in
August 2011 that it reached an agreement to settle a misdemeanor
criminal charge related to Risperdal marketing.  $600 Million Fine  The criminal fine of as much as $600 million comes in
connection with that agreement, the people said. It wasn’t clear
whether J&J or one of its units would be criminally charged.  J&J fell 86 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $62.12 at 4:15 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite  trading .  Risperdal, once J&J’s best-selling drug, generated
worldwide sales of $24.2 billion from 2003 to 2010, reaching
$4.5 billion in 2007. After that, J&J lost patent protection and
sales declined.  The  Food and Drug Administration  approved Risperdal in 1993
for psychotic disorders including schizophrenia. That market is
limited, and J&J’s Janssen unit sought to sell Risperdal for
bipolar disorder, dementia, mood and anxiety disorders and other
unapproved uses, according to court filings. It was later
approved for other uses.  The $2.2 billion settlement won’t resolve suits brought by
 attorneys general  in Arkansas,  Louisiana  and  South Carolina ,
where the company appealed or said it will appeal judgments over
Risperdal sales, the people said.  Risperdal Marketing  Judges or juries in those states have ordered J&J to pay a
total of about $1.8 billion in damages and fines over Risperdal
marketing campaigns that were found to have misled doctors and
patients about the drug’s health risks and effectiveness.  In April, a judge in Arkansas ordered the drugmaker to pay
$1.2 billion in fines over Risperdal marketing. That verdict
came three months after J&J decided to end a trial in  Texas  over
the drug’s sales with a $158 million settlement.  In June 2011, a judge in South Carolina ordered J&J to pay
$327 million in penalties for deceptively marketing the
medicine. Ten months earlier, jurors in Louisiana ordered the
drugmaker to pay almost $258 million to state officials over
J&J’s Risperdal marketing campaign in the state. A Louisiana
judge later ordered the drugmaker to pay an additional
$73.3 million in attorneys’ fees and costs.  Kickback Claims  The settlement will cover whistle-blower claims that J&J
officials paid kickbacks to executives of Omnicare, based in
Covington,  Kentucky , to spur sales of Risperdal and other drugs
including Levaquin and Procrit. The government intervened in
these cases in 2010 and has been pressing claims against the
drugmaker in federal court in Boston.  The agreement will also cover civil claims brought in a
whistle-blower suit in San Francisco in 2005 that J&J and its
Scios Inc. unit promoted Natrecor for unapproved uses. The
government joined the suit in 2009, and a trial was scheduled
for October 2012, according to court records.  J&J pleaded guilty to misbranding Natrecor in September and
agreed to pay an $85 million fine. The plea agreement didn’t
release J&J from the civil suit, the  Justice Department  said in
court papers in September.  In April, Justice Department lawyers asked U.S. District
Judge Richard Stearns in Boston to force  Alex Gorsky , J&J’s new
chief executive officer, to testify about the Omnicare kickback
allegations.  Omnicare Settlement  Omnicare agreed in 2009 to pay $98 million to settle civil
claims by the U.S. and several states that it took kickbacks
from J&J. Omnicare didn’t admit liability in settling that case.  Gorsky, who had been vice president of sales and later
president of J&J’s Janssen unit, has “relevant knowledge”
about the division’s marketing practices in connection with
Omnicare, the government’s lawyers said in court filings.  Gorsky was tapped in February to succeed Bill Weldon as
J&J’s top executive.  Risperdal is a member of a class of drugs, known as
atypical antipsychotics, that includes Indianapolis-based  Eli
Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Zyprexa and London-based  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s
Seroquel.  Lilly, AstraZeneca and two other J&J competitors making
antipsychotic drugs have paid a total of $2.7 billion to resolve
government marketing claims, particularly that the companies
pushed the drugs for unapproved uses.  Lilly paid more than $1.7 billion to resolve state and
federal investigations over Zyprexa and AstraZeneca has paid
almost $590 million. Pfizer paid $301 million for its drug
Geodon.  The Omnicare case is U.S. ex re. Lisitza v. Johnson &
Johnson, 07-10288, U.S. District Court, District of
 Massachusetts  (Boston). The Natrecor case is Strom v. Scios, 05-
03004, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  