-- Japan Picks Stimulus Advocates for BOJ Amid Calls for Action
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-06-12T06:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/japan-picks-stimulus-advocates-for-boj-as-lawmakers-urge-action.html
Japan’s government nominated two
economists to the central bank’s board who previously signaled
support for stimulus, underscoring forecasts for policy makers
to expand asset purchases in coming months.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s administration yesterday
tapped Takahide Kiuchi of Nomura Securities Co. and Takehiro Sato of Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., pending confirmation
by the Diet. The picks broke with a practice of choosing
candidates from similar backgrounds to the board members they
replace; the retired members had business backgrounds.  The nominees would join a central bank that’s boosted its
asset fund by 20 trillion yen ($252 billion) this year yet been
faulted by lawmakers for failing to do enough to end deflation
and stoke growth. Sato said in an interview last month the BOJ’s
inflation forecast for next year was “wishful thinking,” and
Kiuchi said the bank may need to cut growth and price forecasts.  “Both nominees have indicated that the BOJ has to take
more actions,” said  Chotaro Morita , chief strategist for fixed
income at Barclays Capital  Japan  Ltd. “Whether they join or
not, the BOJ may have to do more soon as uncertainties remain
high in the global economy especially in  Europe .”  Parliament will probably vote on the appointments around
June 21, opposition lawmaker Yousuke Tsuruho, who sits on a
joint committee that received the nominations, told reporters
yesterday. The five-year terms of former board members  Seiji Nakamura  and  Hidetoshi Kamezaki , who had been executives in the
shipping and trading-company industries, concluded April 4.  IMF’s Call  The BOJ concludes its next policy meeting, a two-day
session, on June 15. The  International Monetary Fund  today said
in an annual review of Japan’s economy that further BOJ easing
would accelerate achievement of its inflation target, and that
the yen’s exchange rate is overvalued from a medium-term view.  The nominations are a chance for lawmakers to push the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  to do more to end decade-long deflation and bolster
growth as the nation’s debt burden limits the flexibility of
fiscal policy. The economy’s rebound from last year’s
earthquake-affected contraction is forecast to slow in the
second half as reconstruction fades and Europe’s crisis bites.  Kiuchi, 48, and Sato, 50, couldn’t be reached for comment
when contacted by telephone by Bloomberg News yesterday.  July Move  “We expect the next round of easing to come around July,”
when the BOJ reviews its growth and inflation forecasts, Morgan
Stanley economists including Sato wrote in a research report on
May 15. “The prevailing political climate makes an end to
easing unlikely.”  Sato forecasts a 0.3 percent decline in consumer prices in
the year ending March 2014, while Kiuchi sees a rise of the same
amount. Both predictions are below the lowest forecast provided
by board members in April. This indicates that if both men join
the board and do not change their inflation estimates, the BOJ’s
prediction for a median 0.7 percent increase in fiscal 2013
could be lowered, further postponing the achievement of the
bank’s price goal.  Yesterday was the second attempt by the government to fill
at least one of the openings. On March 23, it sent just one name
to the joint Diet committee,  Ryutaro Kono , BNP Paribas SA’s
chief Japan economist. While the Nikkei newspaper reported that
Kohei Watanabe, an adviser to trading house  Itochu Corp. (8001) , would
be tapped, Watanabe wasn’t nominated.  Kono Rejected  Kono was rejected after some lawmakers said he wasn’t
aggressive enough regarding the use of monetary stimulus to end
 deflation . After his rejection, Kono said that some politicians
were pushing economic policies “entirely divorced from
reality” and making “unrealistic” demands on monetary policy.  “Compared with the candidate proposed last time around, I
have the impression that they are more inclined towards
easing,” Takeshi Miyazaki, a ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan
lawmaker who is also a member of the party’s anti-deflation
group, said in an interview. “It appears they have both been
critical of the current BOJ stance to some extent.”  Lawmakers and business leaders have urged policy makers to
take more steps to combat the appreciation of the yen, which
undermines the competitiveness of Japan’s exports. The currency
has soared 53 percent over the past five years against the
dollar, and was at 79.35 as of 12:10 p.m. in  Tokyo , up from this
year’s low of 84.18 in mid-March.  Better Communication  Bringing aboard two investment-bank economists may help
strengthen the central bank’s communication with financial
markets, said  Hideo Kumano , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life
Research Institute in Tokyo and a former central bank official.
Former BOJ board member Atsushi Mizuno is among those who have
criticized the bank for a lack of clarity on its intentions.  When Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his colleagues unveiled
a 10 trillion yen expansion in government-bond purchases on
April 27, the impact of the stimulus was diminished by the bank
predicting it would achieve victory before long on its inflation
goal. The statement was akin to saying the bank would “press on
the accelerator and they suddenly hit the brake hard,”
 Hiromichi Shirakawa , a Credit Suisse economist, said that day.  ‘Get Better’  “This means that the government wants the BOJ to review
its communication methods with market and they think the BOJ
needs to get better,” Kumano said yesterday, referring to the
nominations.  Sato joined Morgan Stanley in 1999, previously worked at
Sumitomo Bank and the Japan Research Institute Ltd. and is a
graduate of  Kyoto University . Kiuchi joined a unit of Nomura in
1987, previously worked at the company’s  New York  and Frankfurt
offices, and attended  Waseda University  in Tokyo.  With  interest rates  near zero since 2008, the bank has been
using its asset-purchase program, now at 40 trillion yen, as the
main policy tool. The bank has experienced repeated failures in
its monetary policy operations in recent weeks, with lack of
demand for a short-term funding credit loan program and lack of
supply of government notes for the bond purchase facility.  Demand for bonds has jumped amid a stock slump. Yields on
10-year securities touched 0.79 percent last week, the lowest
since 2003, while the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  has declined more
than 12 percent in three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  