-- Japan Wins Scientists’ Panel Nod to Restart Atomic Reactors
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-06-11T02:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/japan-wins-scientists-panel-nod-to-restart-atomic-reactors-1-.html
A panel of Japanese scientists
reported that two nuclear reactors idled for safety checks are
safe to operate, giving Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  the
approval he needs to re-start the units.  After a meeting late Sunday that was moved to a new venue
after anti-nuclear protests, the 12-member panel appointed by
the governor of Fukui prefecture, where  Kansai Electric Power
Co. (9503) ’s Ohi nuclear plant is located, released a  document  stating
the plant can be operated safely.  “It has been evaluated that safety measures are
satisfactory for ensuring reactor security even in the event of
an earthquake and tsunami that must be anticipated based on the
lessons learned from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear accident,”
the panel said.  Noda, backed by businesses including  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  and  NEC
Corp. (6701) , said June 8 the nation needs to resume nuclear power
generation to avoid blackouts and preserve quality of life.
Polls show 70 percent of Japanese oppose atomic energy.  The science panel was appointed by Fukui Governor Issei Nishikawa to provide an extra measure of safety checks after
last year’s disaster at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima
plant in the northeast undermined support for atomic power.
Radiation leaks prompted the evacuation of as many as 160,000
people.  Public Opposition  Seventy-one percent of respondents to a Mainichi newspaper
 poll  published on June 4 objected to a speedy restart of the
reactors in Ohi. In a separate poll released June 5 by the Pew
Research Center, 70 percent of Japanese said the country should
reduce its reliance on nuclear energy and 52 percent said they
were worried that they or someone in their family may have been
exposed to radiation.  Nishikawa is expected to accept the panel’s advice,
clearing the way for Noda to allow the reactors to resume
operation. The prime minister and three cabinet members with
final say on the restart may give the go-ahead as early as June
16, the Kyodo News agency reported, citing unnamed officials.  Japan , once the world’s biggest nuclear power generator
after the U.S. and  France , shut its last operating reactor on
May 5 after last year’s March 11 quake and tsunami caused
meltdowns and radiation leaks at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.
Supporters of restarting the two Ohi reactors, including
Hiromasa Yonekura, chairman of Japan’s biggest business lobby
Keidanren, say power shortages in the Kansai region could force
factory shutdowns and slow the economic recovery.  Local Authorities  While not legally required, central authorities typically
seek the consent of local governments to restart reactors.  Local authorities near Fukui prefecture dropped their
opposition to the restart on May 30, leaving the decision to the
Fukui governor, the Ohi mayor and four key ministers: Noda,
Trade and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano , Environment Minister
Goshi Hosono and Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura.  In April the four approved safety measures at the plant and
confirmed the necessity of the restart to avert power shortages.  Yukiko Kada, governor of Shiga prefecture, next to Fukui,
criticized the government for what she called the “rush to
restart the reactors” in an April 11 interview.  Power Cuts  The Japanese government announced  power-saving targets  on
May 18 in areas supplied by seven of 10 regional utilities,
including  Kansai Electric , which is most dependent on nuclear
power. Homes and companies supplied by Kansai Electric should
cut consumption by more than 15 percent from 2010 levels on
weekdays beginning July 2 through Sept. 7, it said.  Six weeks will be needed for the two 1,180-megawatt
reactors to reach full output, Akihiro Aoike, a Kansai Electric
spokesman, said. Users in the Kansai region should prepare to
conserve power even if the reactors are brought online because
full production won’t be reached until after July, Edano told
reporters on June 1.  Absent nuclear power, Kansai Electric’s electricity output
may fall 14.9 percent short of peak demand this summer should
the nation experience a heat wave similar to 2010’s, a
government panel said last month.  Western Japan has a 40 percent likelihood of higher-than-
average temperatures in the three months to August, the  Japan
Meteorological Agency  said on May 24. The eastern and northern
regions have a 30 percent possibility of a warmer-than-usual
summer, the state-run agency said.  Even if power shortages during peak summer hours are
averted, increased use of thermal  power plants  will keep
draining Japan’s national wealth, the government panel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  