-- Japan Approves Insurance for Tankers Affected by Iranian Ban
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-06-11T12:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/japan-approves-insurance-for-tankers-affected-by-iranian-ban-1-.html
Japan ’s Cabinet approved a bill to
provide sovereign insurance to tanker operators that import
Iranian oil before the full implementation of European Union
sanctions against the Persian Gulf nation.  The government plans to take over coverage for ship owners
and petroleum refiners because they will lose access to Europe’s
reinsurance market after the 27-member EU embargo goes into
effect July 1, the transport ministry said today in a statement.  The full EU ban covers Iranian crude exports and insuring
shipments of the oil. The prohibition means 95 percent of the
world’s tankers will lose insurance if they carry cargo from the
Gulf state as they’re covered by the 13 members of the London-
based  International Group  of P&I Clubs. A law signed by
President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 31 blocks countries’ access to
the U.S. financial system if they can’t show they’re reducing
oil imports from Iran. Japan and 10 European nations received
exemptions in March for a renewable period of 180 days.  The EU introduced the embargo against Iran in an attempt to
get the country to halt its nuclear program, which the states
and the U.S. allege is for weapons production. The government in
Tehran faces four sets of United Nations sanctions in an effort
to get the Gulf state to stop enriching uranium.  Japan imported 362,000 barrels a day of crude from  Iran  in
2010, making it the country’s second-largest buyer, after  China ,
according to data from the U.S. Department of Energy.  Japan’s Cabinet will submit the legislation to the Diet, or
national parliament, for approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  