-- Jeb Bush Sees Romney Needing ‘Broader’ Immigration Ideas
-- B y   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 2012-06-11T14:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/jeb-bush-sees-romney-needing-broader-immigration-ideas.html
Republican  Mitt Romney  will need a
“broader” message on immigration to appeal to Hispanic voters
who have turned toward Democrats in presidential and other
elections, former Florida Governor  Jeb Bush  said today.  “He needs to broaden the message out when talking about
immigration, to make it an economic issue as much as it is a
question of the rule of law,” Bush said at a breakfast with
Bloomberg View in New York. “Have a broader message and have a
more intense message.”  The Republican Party’s primary elections, in which the
candidates’ debate about immigration centered on tougher border
control rather than finding a way to accommodate millions of
undocumented immigrants already in the U.S., has left the party
with a challenge ahead of November’s elections, Bush said.  “There is work to do,” said Bush, asked about the party’s
overall standing with Hispanic voters -- who supported President
 Barack Obama  in 2008 over Republican  John McCain  by  67 percent
to 31 percent . “I’d say that, if an objective teacher was
grading where we are right now, I’d say ‘needs improvement’ --
hopefully not an unfinished grade.”  The debates focused on the borders, he said, “particularly
where you’re in crowds that are quite anxious that we’ve not
been able to secure our border -- legitimately so, just for the
record here,” he said. “Great countries should be able to
control their borders, plain and simple, and we haven’t done it
to the extent that we should, although there has been
significant improvement in the last seven, eight years -- also
because we’ve had a lot fewer people trying to cross the border,
because our economy stinks.”  Romney’s Focus  “The focus has been on that in these debates, and  Governor
Romney  has used this as a means to connect with a group of
voters that were quite angry, and it was effective,” Bush said.
“But now he’s in this, somewhat of a box. So I think the
broader message is how you get out of it.”  Bush, 59, who served two terms as Florida’s governor from
1999 to 2007, is a brother of former President  George W. Bush 
and son of former President  George H.W. Bush . The family
celebrated the father’s 88th birthday at Kennebunkport,  Maine ,
over the weekend, Jeb Bush said -- citing a “drive-by” of the
aircraft carrier USS George H.W. Bush near the waterfront home.  Bush refrained from endorsing any of his party’s candidates
for president before Florida’s primary on Jan. 31, and since has
endorsed Romney. Bush, who repeatedly has said he will not be
Romney’s running mate, also said recently that he missed his own
“opportunity” to run for president this year.  Different Environment  The political environment in Washington has veered so far
from any spirit of compromise, Bush said, that figures such as
his father -- and even  Ronald Reagan  -- would find it more
difficult campaigning for their party’s nomination today.  “They got a lot of things done with bipartisan support,
but right now it’s just difficult to imagine,” Bush said.  “Context changes; history changes,” he said. “Ronald
Reagan would have, based on his record of finding accommodation,
finding some degree of common ground, similar to my dad, they
would have a hard time if you define the  Republican Party  -- and
I don’t -- as having an orthodoxy that doesn’t allow for
disagreement,” he said. “We’re in a political system in
general that is in a very different place right now.”  Daniels and Christie  Looking at governors today, Bush said Indiana Governor
 Mitch Daniels  “‘in terms of temperament and principle,
principled leadership, is probably the best governor today.’’  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  ‘‘is fantastic, and
underneath the surface things get done, and he’s willing to cut
a deal, if it makes sense to advance his agenda,’’ Bush added.
‘‘Now it’s Jersey style.’’  Asked about Senator Marco Rubio of Florida as a running
mate for Romney, Bush hailed him as more experienced than Obama
was at this stage in his career.  The former state House speaker from Miami ‘‘is more mature
than his age, more experienced than you would believe, more
articulate than, I believe, President Obama -- without a
teleprompter,’’ Bush said. ‘‘He would bring energy to a campaign
that could always use it. He’s the real deal.’’  Bush also criticized Obama for placing political gain ahead
of negotiation in  Washington  -- citing the failure of the
president’s task force on debt and spending led by former
Senator  Alan Simpson  of  Wyoming  and Erskine Bowles, a former
chief of staff to former President  Bill Clinton .  ‘‘If he was a transcendent figure, which is what he ran as,
I think he’s failed,” Bush said of Obama.  The president “had a chance” to address the long-term
deficit with the remedy that Simpson and Bowles recommended, a
package of taxes and spending cuts, he said, but didn’t “for
political reasons.”  “It was purely a political calculation,” he said. “He
created Simpson-Bowles and then abandoned it at birth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Silva in  New York  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  