-- JPMorgan Joins Volkswagen to Lead Asset-Backed Securities Issues
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-06-11T18:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/jpmorgan-joins-volkswagen-to-lead-asset-backed-securities-issues.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  are leading companies selling $2.6 billion in bonds tied to
household and business borrowing as this year’s issuance
outpaces 2011.  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, plans to sell
$750 million of bonds tied to credit-card debt set to mature in
five years. The securities are rated AAA by Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings, according to a person familiar with the
transaction who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. The New York-based bank is managing the sale, with HSBC
Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of Canada, according to a regulatory
filing.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to immediately comment.  Companies have sold about $92 billion of asset-backed bonds
tied to consumer and business lending this year, compared with
$87 billion in the first six months of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Debt tied to credit-card sales account
for $11 billion of 2012 issuance, compared with $45 for
automobile debt and $7 billion for notes backed by  student
loans , the data show.  Investors are demanding 61 basis points more yield than on
Treasuries to hold top-ranked asset-backed securities linked to
everything from auto loans to timeshare payments, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. The spread is down from 93
basis points at the end of last year. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Spreads Narrow  Top-ranked debt backed by auto loans is yielding 56 basis
points more than Treasuries, down from 65 basis points on May
15, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. The
securities returned 0.07 percent in May. That compares with 0.33
percent for bonds tied to credit-card payments and 0.58 percent
for investment-grade corporate bonds, index data show.  Volkswagen, based in Wolfsburg,  Germany , plans to sell a 1
billion euro ($1.25 billion) lease bond, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The deal, run by JPMorgan and Royal Bank
of Scotland Plc, may be all fixed-rate securities graded AAA by
S&P and Fitch with a 1.5 percent yield, according to a person
familiar with offering who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  CNH Global NV (CNH) , the  part-owned  unit of truck and tractor
manufacturer Fiat Industrial SpA, is planning to sell $750
million of bonds backed by loans for equipment. The deal is run
by Credit Suisse AG, Credit Agricole SA and RBS.  ‘Stable’ Outlook  The Amsterdam-based company sold $996 million of equipment
bonds in March and $811 million in December.  S&P boosted CNH’s outlook to “stable” in March, citing
better-than-expected 2011 financial results, and that Fiat
Industrial’s diversification “should offset” weaker truck
sales in Southern Europe.  JPMorgan is also planning to sell a conduit bond, according
to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
backed by loans including California’s Palazzo Westwood Village;
Doubletree Corp.’s Wit Hotel in  Chicago ; 100 West Putnam in
Greenwich,  Connecticut ; Louisville, Kentucky’s Jefferson Mall;
and Southpark Mall in Colonial Heights, Virginia.  Moody’s Investors Service said last week the gap is
widening between strong shopping centers that can attract
tenants and those that may be on a path toward liquidation amid
“sluggish” economic growth. Moody’s is changing how it
assesses the weakest shopping-mall loans packaged into
commercial-mortgage bonds to compensate for a growing number of
properties that may struggle to survive.  SolarCity Corp., the developer of rooftop solar power
systems that is working on its initial public offering, plans to
use solar panel installations on Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in
 Arizona , California,  Colorado , and 150 leases in pipeline as
collateral for first securitization, Asset-Backed Alert reported
last week. The  San Mateo , California-based company may have $3
billion of commercial, residential solar-equipment leases ready
to securitize by year-end 2015. The size and timing haven’t been
determined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  