-- Jump in China Loans Helps Wen’s Efforts to End Slowdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-12T01:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/jump-in-china-loans-helps-wen-s-efforts-to-end-slowdown.html
China ’s new loans exceeded estimates
in May and more money went into longer-term lending, signaling
support for investment projects that may help to prevent a
deeper economic slowdown.  Local-currency  lending  was 793.2 billion  yuan  ($125
billion), the People’s Bank of China  said  on its website
yesterday. That was the most on record for the month of May and
more than analysts’ 700 billion yuan median forecast. Loans
extended for a year or more accounted for 34 percent of the
total, up from 28 percent in April.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s efforts to engineer a resurgence in
the world’s second-biggest economy may be aided by the jump in
lending and signs of resilience in exports. At the same time,
industrial-output growth was close to the lowest since 2009 in
May, indicating additional measures will still be needed after
last week’s interest-rate cut.  “Over the past several months, investors have been
concerned that a large share of loans was for short-term
financing, and hence would not help boost growth as much as
large investment projects,” said Zhang Zhiwei, the Hong Kong-
based chief China economist at Nomura, who previously worked for
the  International Monetary Fund . “The rising share of medium
and long-term loans in May helps address this concern.”  Lingering Crisis  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.4 percent as of 9:35
a.m. local time today as surging Spanish bond yields stoked
concern that a bailout for that nation’s banks won’t tame the
 European debt crisis . Chinese stocks rose the most in almost two
weeks yesterday on China’s better-than-forecast trade figures
and easing inflation that gives more leeway to loosen monetary
policy.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  said new loans may surge to as much as 1
trillion yuan this month. Nomura’s Zhang said the proportion of
longer-term lending remains “relatively low” and has room to
rise as banks lend more to infrastructure projects.  M2 money supply grew 13.2 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with an estimate of 12.9 percent, yesterday’s
report showed. The gain was 12.8 percent in April. New lending
was up from 681.8 billion yuan in April.  “The lending figures are all the more impressive because
loan growth in the first half of the month was reportedly
extremely weak,” said  Mark Williams , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London  who formerly advised the U.K. Treasury
on China. “These figures point to a sharp rebound in lending in
late May and suggest that banks and borrowers have responded
rapidly to the government’s new emphasis on supporting growth.”  Baosteel Expansion  The nation’s top economic planning agency, the National
Development and Reform Commission, is speeding approvals for
investment projects. Baosteel Group Corp. and Wuhan Iron & Steel
Group last month secured permission to build factories after
previous delays caused by overcapacity concerns.  Efforts to bolster growth also include reductions in bank
reserve requirements and delays in tightening rules for
lenders’ capital. China has no plan to introduce stimulus on the
scale unleashed during the global crisis in 2008,
according to the state-run Xinhua News Agency.  Exports climbed 15.3 percent in May from a year earlier,
the customs bureau said June 10, a gain that exceeded all 29
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Industrial output rose by
less than 10 percent for a second month and inflation eased to 3
percent, the lowest reading in two years, statistics bureau
reports showed June 9.  “ China’s economy  is still on a downward trend,” Citigroup
Inc. economist Ding Shuang, who formerly worked for the People’s
Bank of China, told Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong  yesterday.
“We do not see a clear turning point yet, and policy support is
very much needed in order to stabilize growth.”  ‘Very Weak’ Growth  The economy’s expansion this quarter may be “very weak”
at 7 percent to 7.5 percent, Ding said. Better-than-forecast
trade growth in May could weaken as the European Union is likely
to enter recession, restraining demand, he said.  The yuan was little changed after the loan figures. The
currency gained 0.02 percent to close at 6.3694 per dollar in
 Shanghai , while twelve-month non-deliverable forwards in Hong
Kong traded at a 0.7 percent discount to the onshore spot rate.  The central bank cut borrowing costs for the first time
since 2008 last week and loosened controls on banks’ ability to
set lending and deposit rates, stepping up efforts to combat a
domestic slowdown.  China’s  economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in almost three years, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis crimped exports and a campaign to cool
consumer and property prices damped domestic demand.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  