-- Kenya Airways Falls for Fifth Day on Profit Drop: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-06-11T11:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/kenya-airways-falls-for-fifth-day-on-profit-drop-nairobi-mover.html
Kenya Airways Ltd. (KNAL) , sub-Saharan
Africa’s third-biggest airline, fell for a fifth day and headed
for its lowest level in more than seven weeks on uncertainty
over the extent of its full-year profit decline.  The stock retreated 1.8 percent to 14 shillings by 11:52
a.m. in Nairobi, the capital. A close at that level would the
weakest since April 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The company is trading on a profit warning; so what the
market is not sure is whether they are going to go into an
outright loss or what level of profit fall will be reported,”
Eric Musau, a research analyst at Nairobi-based Standard
Investment Bank Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  Standard Investment Bank estimated profit will fall 44
percent, Musau said. KQ, as the airline is known, will announce
earnings June 14. KQ issued a profit warning after the  European
debt crisis , rising fuel prices and political unrest in  Egypt 
and  Nigeria  curbed revenue, the airline said in an e-mailed
statement Jan. 27.  Profit in the full year through March 2011 surged 74
percent as the carrier added routes and boosted its fleet. Net
income increased to 3.54 billion shillings ($41.7 million) from
2.04 billion shillings a year earlier.  The airline, based in Nairobi, said June 8 it raised 14.5
billion shillings through a stock sale to existing shareholders
after achieving the minimum subscription rate. It received
applications for 1.03 billion shares, or 70 percent of the total
for sale, according to a statement published in the Standard
newspaper today. The company had sought to raise 20.7 billion
shillings to fund an expansion plan across  Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  