-- Coast Guard Says Yacht Blast Off New Jersey May Be Hoax
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-12T03:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/n-j-yacht-explosion-injures-7-near-sandy-hook-coast-guard-says.html
The U.S. Coast Guard suspended a
search for a yacht that reported an explosion off the  New Jersey 
coast and said the emergency call may have been a hoax.  Four Coast Guard helicopters and two boats were dispatched
to about 17 miles (27 kilometers) east of Sandy Hook and
searched an area of 638 square nautical miles, according to a
statement yesterday.  “There hasn’t been any signs of distress or debris that
would indicate a vessel was in distress,” a spokeswoman, Jetta
Disco, said in an interview.  The Coast Guard’s Vessel Traffic Service in New York
received the call for help about 4:20 p.m. local time, Chief
Warrant Officer Brandon Brewer said in a telephone interview.
The vessel, identifying itself as the Blind Date, reported there
had been an explosion and that 21 people abandoned ship in life
rafts, he said.  Besides its own crews, units from the  New York  City Fire
Department, the New Jersey State Police and the Nassau County
Police Department took part in the search, the Coast Guard said.  “More than 200 first responders assembled mass casualty
receptions areas in  Newark , and Coast Guard Station Sandy Hook,
New Jersey, preparing to receive the reported injured
passengers,” Commander Kenneth Pierro said in the statement.  A reward of $1,000 was offered for information. Making a
false distress call is a felony under federal law punishable by
10 years in prison, a $250,000 fine, and requiring reimbursement
for the cost of the search, the Coast Guard said.  Authorities responded to more than 60 suspected hoax calls
in the  New York City , northern New Jersey and Hudson River
region in 2011, the Coast Guard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  