-- Nadal Credits Mental Strength for Record 7th French Open Title
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-11T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/nadal-credits-mental-strength-for-record-7th-french-open-title.html
Rafael Nadal  shook off the anxiety
of a tense, wet evening in Paris just in time to defeat the
world’s top-ranked tennis player and make French Open history.  After fighting with the referee, battling a slippery court
and watching Novak Djokovic thump groundstrokes past him the day
before, Nadal said he regained his composure three minutes
before their rain-interrupted men’s final resumed yesterday.  The result was a 6-4, 6-3, 2-6, 7-5 victory for Nadal, his
seventh title at Roland Garros to break a tie with  Bjorn Borg 
for the most men’s singles championships in tournament history.  “I was very nervous during all the night,” Nadal said at
a news conference, the Coupe des Mousquetaires winner’s trophy
by his side. “I was a little bit anxious to play what remains
of the match.”  The final, which was pushed into an extra day for the first
time at the French Open since 1973, resumed with the 26-year-old
Spaniard leading Djokovic two sets to one and a break down in
the fourth.  Serving at 2-1, Djokovic was broken as Nadal attacked with
his forehand. With play back on serve and Djokovic trailing 6-5,
a double fault on match point ended the Serb’s quest to become
the first man to win four major championships in a row since
 Australia ’s  Rod Laver  took them all in 1969.  “He started off really strong,” Djokovic said about the
resumption of play yesterday. “I started a bit slower. It was a
little bit unfortunate in that first game, and things turned
around.”  Major Victories  Nadal now has won 11 major singles titles, tying him with
Borg and Laver. Only  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  (16),  Pete Sampras  of the U.S. (14) and  Roy Emerson  of Australia (12) have
won more. It also was Nadal’s first major championship since he
tied Borg with six titles in Paris last year. Djokovic has won
five Grand Slam titles.  “Records are always there to be broken,” Borg said in a
statement reported by the Swedish news agency TT. “Nadal is one
of the world’s best players, but he’s also one of the nicest off
the court, too. He will surely win the  French Open  a couple of
times more.”  Nadal argued with officials about playing as the rain fell
and said he benefited from the second delay, the one that
suspended the match overnight.  “The conditions were much more favorable for Novak than
for me” at the end of the day on Sunday, he said. “I lost
meters behind the baseline. I really felt that I wasn’t able to
push him back like I did at the beginning of the match.”  Clay Master  The second-seeded Spaniard has won 36 clay-court titles,
the most of anyone currently playing on the  ATP World Tour . Borg
won 30 tournaments on the slow surface before he retired at the
age 26 in 1983. Nadal, who honed his clay-court game at home in
Mallorca from the age of 4 with the help of his uncle and
longtime coach,  Toni Nadal , has now won seven titles in eight
years at  Roland Garros .  “I was very focused for the last eight years, because
winning as much as I did in this surface the last eight years is
not because I played great every time,” Nadal said. “It’s
impossible to play great every time. Even when I played so-so, I
was there mentally. The mental part was there 100 percent.”  Nadal prepares so meticulously for matches that he had no
time to meet Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II before a second-round
match at Wimbledon in 2010.  Nadal’s Preparation  “Every single match, I see that guy four, five hours
before the match, he’s in the locker room,” seven-time major
singles champion  John McEnroe  told reporters last week at Roland
Garros. “The preparation is amazing. You’d think once in a
while maybe I won’t tape this finger for the practice or I don’t
need to do that for that 20-, 30-minute hit. He’s so well
prepared. It’s going to be unbelievably tough to beat this
guy.”  The 25-year-old Djokovic agreed.  “He’s definitely best player in history on this surface,
and results are showing that he’s one of the best ever players
that played this game,” Djokovic said.  Unlike Borg, who retired early, Nadal isn’t done yet.  “I cannot predict the future,” the left-hander said.
“But I will play on for as long as my body allows me to and as
long as I have the motivation and the passion for the game. I
hope it will be for a long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros in Paris via the London
newsroom at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  