-- East Europe Nations Prone to Default Suffer Lack of Freedoms
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-06-12T15:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/nations-prone-to-default-in-east-europe-suffer-lack-of-freedoms.html
For Denis Oleinikov, the breaking
point came last September when policemen trashed his company’s
offices in Kiev.  The owner of Prostoprint.com, which sells custom goods
designed by its clients, packed up his family a few weeks later
and moved to  Croatia  from Ukraine. Authorities pursued Oleinikov
after he printed a t-shirt mocking President Viktor Yanukovych.
He’s now fighting a legal battle from the town of Porec on
Croatia’s Adriatic coast.  “I lost it all,” Oleinikov said in a telephone interview.
“If Yanukovych decides to destroy something, that’s not a
question of discussion.”  Ukraine has the 13th-worst “democracy score” among 29
eastern European and central Asian nations tracked by Freedom
House, a Washington-based group that advocates democracy and
human rights. Credit markets are signaling the country has a 45
percent chance of default. Former eastern bloc nations are
finding that freedom, the ideal they chose over communism more
than two decades ago, is dividing the winners from the losers.  Slovenia, the highest-ranked eastern European nation by
Freedom House, has a 23 percent probability of failing to adhere
to its debt commitments within five years, credit-default swaps
indicate. It is the richest country in the former eastern bloc
with gross domestic product per capita of $22,893.  Ukraine  is
the sixth poorest with GDP per head at $3,007.  Default Swaps  “Political freedom and the stability of the political
environment have been directly linked to the way they have
progressed economically,” said Otilia Simkova, an analyst at
Eurasia Group in London.  In Croatia, where Oleinikov now lives, the cost to insure
 government bonds  for five years using credit-default swaps is
539 basis points, compared with 857 for Ukraine and 573 for
 Hungary . A basis point on a credit-default swap contract
protecting 10 million euros ($12.6 million) of debt from default
for five years is equal to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its
agreements.  Ukraine and Hungary are facing threats to their ability to
attract international funds as their democratic credentials
slip, according to Freedom House. In Ukraine, the pace of
foreign-direct investment fell to an average annual pace of $4.7
billion in the past two years from $6.3 billion between 2005 and
2010, according to the statistics office in  Kiev , the nation’s
capital.  Investment Flows  Total inflows to Hungary since communism ended in 1990 have
declined to 65.3 billion euros at the end of last year from a
peak of 70.9 billion euros in March 2010, central bank data
show.  Russia , Ukraine and Belarus, the eastern European countries
with the worst democracy scores from Freedom House, were the
lowest recipients of foreign-direct investment per head among 13
former communist nations between 1993 and 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg based on  World Bank  figures.  “It would appear that ‘good politics’ and ‘good economics’
go together,” Alan Rousso, a managing director at the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, said in a phone
interview.  The European Union, which is seeking to stem the rise of
authoritarian rule along its eastern border, is battling
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  over laws it says erode
the power of independent institutions such as the central bank.
The EU also has stalled Ukraine’s drive for closer ties because
of the jailing of former Premier Yulia Tymoshenko last year.  ‘Democratic Decline’  Hungary and Ukraine are “at the forefront of democratic
decline” in eastern Europe, raising “serious questions about
the durability” of the region’s young democracies, Freedom
House said in a June 6  report .  Orban and Yanukovych “under the pretext of so-called
reforms, have been systematically breaking down critical checks
and balances,” David J. Kramer, president of Freedom House,
said in the report. The trend “has been made easier by
Hungary’s particular political circumstances, among them a weak
opposition and an illiberal ruling party with an unusual
parliamentary supermajority,” according to the report.  Hungary ranks eighth among the 10 eastern European Union
members, down from joint fourth place with the  Czech Republic  as
recently as 2008, according to Freedom House. Hungary is “the
most glaring example of decline” among Europe’s new
democracies, Freedom House said, citing a regression in national
democratic governance, independent media, judicial framework and
civil society.  Hungary’s Response  The conclusion is “unfounded” and built on argumentation
“lacking credibility,” Hungary’s government said June 7 in a
 statement  on its website.  “Freedom House fails to understand that eastern Europe and
Hungary require numerous changes and reforms because of faults
in the legal framework as a legacy of communism the region left
behind 20 years ago,” the government said.  Freedom House was founded in New York in 1941 to advocate
democracy and human rights. Its first leaders were Eleanor Roosevelt, the wife of former U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Wendell Willkie, who ran for president as the
Republican candidate in 1940. The organization lists the U.S.
government among its biggest sponsors and has been criticized by
countries such as Cuba and Russia for serving primarily American
interests.  ‘Important Barometers’  In Hungary, Orban, 49, has increased control over
independent institutions since he came to office in May 2010. He
used a two-thirds parliamentary majority to oust the chief
justice of the  Supreme Court , narrow the jurisdiction of the
Constitutional Court and pass a new constitution.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive body, has
started infringement proceedings against Orban’s government,
while signs that the government is encroaching on central-bank
independence have held up financing talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  since November.  “Those are important barometers for many investors of the
investment climate in Hungary,” Blaise Antin, who helps manage
$7 billion in emerging-market debt, including Hungarian bonds,
at TCW Group Inc. in Los Angeles, said in a telephone interview
on May 24. “The risk premium attached is somewhat different
than it would be otherwise.”  Fading Relations  In Ukraine, relations with the EU are fading. To protest
the jailing of Tymoshenko, the EU indefinitely postponed last
year the signing of an association agreement that would have
established a tariff-free exchange for a range of goods between
Ukraine and the world’s largest trading bloc.  Tymoshenko, a leader of the 2004 Orange Revolution, says
Yanukovych backed her seven-year prison sentence to block her
from elections this year. While previously insisting Ukraine’s
future should be with the EU, Yanukovych, 61, said as recently
as May 11 that Ukraine will benefit from a pause in relations
with the bloc.  Mykola Tolmachev, chief executive of Kiev-based real estate
developer  TMM , is finding that potential business partners are
being scared away.  “We’re in talks now with Chinese and Slovenian investors
about their possible participation in some projects, but they’re
afraid,” Tolmachev said in an interview.  To spur investment, Ukraine adopted anti-corruption
legislation last year, introduced a new  tax code  and made it
easier to register companies, Yanukovych said Feb. 24.  ‘Managed Economy’  In neighboring Russia, foreign companies battle corruption
and political meddling in the legal system, when seeking to gain
a foothold in the world’s largest energy exporter, said Edward Mermelstein, a New York-based attorney who has represented
Russian investors in the U.S. and the U.K. as well as western
clients doing business in Russia for 19 years.  “Russia is a managed economy and managed politically as
well, so who gets to succeed is determined by the current
administration,” Mermelstein said in telephone interview.  Russia has the sixth-worst democracy score among eastern
European countries, according to Freedom House, which classes it
as a “consolidated authoritarian regime.” Russia is one of 47
countries Freedom House ranks as “not free” among the 194
nations it tracks globally.  Capital Flight  Capital flight from Russia reached $42 billion in the first
four months of 2012, compared with $80.5 billion during all of
last year, which was the second-highest amount since the central
bank started keeping records in 1994.  Outflows are tied to Russian banks’ needs to meet creditor
obligations in outside countries and a move out of the  emerging
markets  by global investors, central bank Governor  Sergei Ignatiev  told lawmakers on May 16.  Russia’s dollar-denominated  RTS stock index  has declined
7.2 percent this year, compared with the 0.5 percent decline of
the MSCI Emerging-Markets Index.  While Russia defaulted on its debt in 1998, its credit-
default swap spread at 245 basis points give a 16 percent chance
of the country not meeting its commitments to its creditors
within five years. An almost fivefold jump in Urals crude since
2000 swelled state coffers, helping squeeze government debt to
9.6 percent of GDP by the end of 2011.  Ikea AB, the world’s biggest home-furnishings retailer,
suspended expansion in Russia in June 2009 after local officials
withheld permission for two outlets in the cities of Samara and
Ufa. The Swedish company had invested $4 billion in Russia over
10 years.  ‘Quite Some Concerns’  Vladimir Putin , who was elected president for a third term
in March, said he aims to boost labor productivity, add 25
million “high-quality” jobs and push Russia to 50th from 120th
in the World Bank’s Doing Business ranking by 2015.  “In Russia, we have quite some concerns about the
accountability of political, economic and legal institutions,”
Kai Stukenbrock, a Frankfurt-based director at  Standard &
Poor’s (SPY) , said today, adding that this is holding back the
country’s BBB sovereign-credit rating. “Corruption is an issue,
the business climate, the investment climate -- these are all
issues. There is still not a decisive drive to tackle these.”  Putin wants to consolidate his power following the biggest
street protests in more than a decade against alleged fraud
during December’s parliamentary elections, said  Michael Ganske ,
head of emerging-market research at Commerzbank AG in London, in
a phone interview.  Putin’s Priority  That’s his priority rather than making Russia more
attractive to foreign investors or reducing the nation’s
dependence on revenue from natural resources, Ganske said.
Russia relies on oil and gas sales for about 50 percent of its
government revenue.  The biggest drag on foreign investment is “the rule of law
issue and the next most important part is the political
factor,” Ganske said.  While a freedom deficit may be holding Russia back,
economics Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz said China shows the
relationship between democracy and development isn’t linear.  “There was a view that democracy is necessary and
sufficient for strong economic growth,” Stiglitz said in Vienna
on April 26. “Now the question is viewed in a more nuanced way.
China is very successful in its economy and I don’t think that
anybody would say that it’s fully democratic. The relationship
between the two is far more complex than some of the critical
rhetoric would have it.”  China Standout  Communist China surpassed Japan as the world’s
second-largest economy in 2010, helped by investment from
companies such as Germany’s  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and the U.K.’s  Tesco
Plc. (TSCO)  Companies have overlooked concerns by watchdog groups about
human rights violations and instead been lured by the prospect
of doing business in a country of 1.3 billion people.  New York-based  Human Rights Watch  called on the EU in
February to speak out against “the Chinese government’s
widening attacks on freedom of expression, human rights
defenders, civil society activists, and government critics.”  China received about 20 percent of all foreign-direct
investment in emerging markets during the past decade, according
to the World Bank.  In Slovakia, where autos account for more than a fifth of
exports, foreign investment jumped 21 times since Vladimir Meciar was ousted in 1998 after dominating the country’s
politics for almost six years. Meciar was criticized by
investors and international organizations for cronyism and
suppressing human rights.  Foreign-direct investment in Slovakia totaled $47.2 billion
at the end of 2010, compared with $1.8 billion 12 years earlier,
central bank data show. Volkswagen bought its first factory in
Slovakia in 1991 and plans to add 1.5 billion euros in the next
five years to 2.1 billion euros of investment so far as the
company manufactures a record 400,000 cars this year in the
country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  