-- Nazi Echo Tarnishes Kelly ‘Totem,’ Lush Drawings Redeem
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-06-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/nazi-echo-tarnishes-kelly-totem-lush-drawings-redeem.html
Ellsworth Kelly , who just turned 89,
has been getting a lot of attention. Unfortunately, not all of
it is to his best advantage.  In New York last week, the exhibition “Ellsworth Kelly:
‘Sculpture for a Large Wall’” closed at the  Museum of  Modern
Art  and the globetrotting survey “Ellsworth Kelly Plant
Drawings” opened at the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art.  On June 19, the  Morgan Library & Museum  is mounting the
show “Ellsworth Kelly: Sculpture” (through Sept. 9).  And Kelly’s sculpture “The Barnes Totem” (2012) has been
given pride of place on the grounds of the new  Barnes Foundation 
in downtown Philadelphia.  I consider Kelly to be among the strongest living artists,
but “The Barnes Totem” is inappropriate.  The 40-foot-tall, stainless-steel, abstract sculpture,
suggesting headstone and lightning bolt, is a dynamic work.  Yet the commission is unsuitable for an arts institution
whose benefactor and collector, Albert Barnes, never fully
embraced Modernist abstraction. This was a blind spot in his
otherwise impeccable, avant-garde eye.  There are other issues. It was pointed out to me that “The
Barnes Totem” looks exactly like the “S” in the Nazi SS logo.
Once you realize the resemblance, it’s impossible to see the
sculpture any other way.  Abstract Masterwork  At MoMA, there were other problems. Kelly’s monumental,
abstract masterpiece “Sculpture for a Large Wall” (1957) was
installed in the Donald B. and Catherine C. Marron Atrium.  The piece, an anodized aluminum relief, 11 1/2-feet tall by
65 1/2-feet wide, was originally commissioned for the lobby of
the Transportation Building in Philadelphia. In 1998, the
sculpture had to be removed. Jo Carole and Ronald S. Lauder
acquired the artwork and donated it to MoMA, where it was
briefly and beautifully installed in 1999.  Kelly’s large-scale, rectangular sculpture comprises 104
shaped panels suspended between double rows of horizontal rods.
It’s a rush, one of the most thrilling works by an American
artist in MoMA’s collection.  Marrying Impressionism to Mondrian’s Neoplasticism, the
piece’s flashy red, yellow, blue, black and silvery panels
invoke everything from an abacus to a train-window view of the
world whooshing by and laundry flapping on the line.  Regrettably, the sculpture was installed recently behind a
large, wide pillar, which demeaned the experience.  Muscular Foliage  Thankfully, the Met has done Kelly justice with the superb
retrospective “Ellsworth Kelly Plant Drawings” (through Sept.
3). Delicate and muscular, organic and abstract, Kelly’s
neoclassical plant drawings wed rigorous form with airy and
ebullient decoration.  Practicing primarily as a purely abstract artist, Kelly is
well known for his shaped canvases and flat, hard-edged color
forms that torque against their grounds.  Yet he always has drawn from and been fed by nature. At the
entrance of the exhibition is a 1973 photograph of the artist
holding a cornstalk above his head -- its fluttering leaves like
flames -- as if it were a torch lighting the way.  Most of the approximately 80 drawings on view are linear
ink or graphite works on white paper. They suggest Cezanne’s
apples, Matisse’s robust line drawings and Asian calligraphy.  Lauding Nature  Kelly’s drawings of seaweed, flowers, fruit, leaves, grass
and vines are quickly executed and often larger than life. Like
Asian art, they move beyond illustrations or studies to become
homages to nature’s forms and forces.  In the line drawing “Oak” (1960), two leaves and stem
suggest a crucifixion. In “Wild Grape” (1960), a progression
of heart-shaped leaves moves like a line of musical notes across
the page. Here, Kelly meditates on growth and evolution.  Kelly gets as much as he can from flora. In watercolors of
the same subject, grape leaves are liquid, lush. The erotic,
fleshy “Seaweed” (1949) speaks to Chardin’s “Ray Fish.”  And the line drawings “Seaweed” (1949) and “Four
Oranges” (1966) bring us back even further, to the pure,
abstract geometry of medieval stained-glass windows.  The earliest works in the show are interchangeable with
Kelly’s latest drawings, demonstrating an intense, six-decade-
long engagement with his sources.  In the folded, weighty forms of “Banana Leaf” (2008) and
the spiral petals of “Poppy” (2010), Kelly -- seen in his best
light -- gives us the essentials of nature and of drawing.  Information:  http://www.moma.org/   http://www.metmuseum.org/ 
 http://www.themorgan.org/   http://www.barnesfoundation.org/   (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in  New York , at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 