-- NBA’s Memphis Grizzlies to Be Sold to Ubiquiti’s Robert Pera
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-06-12T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/nba-s-memphis-grizzlies-will-be-sold-to-ubiquiti-s-robert-pera.html
The  Memphis Grizzlies  will be sold
to Ubiquiti Networks Inc. Chief Executive Robert Pera, who won’t
move the National Basketball Association team to another city.  Michael Heisley, 75, bought the Grizzlies in 2000, when
they played in Vancouver, and moved the franchise to Memphis for
the 2001-02 season. Terms of his agreement with the 34-year-old
Pera weren’t disclosed in an e-mailed news release.  “I’m excited about the opportunity to build on the work
that has made the Memphis Grizzlies a highly competitive NBA
team,” Pera said in the statement. “I look forward to getting
to know the Memphis community and to continuing the team’s
success in Memphis.”  It isn’t the first time that Heisley has committed to sell
his majority share of the club. In 2006 he agreed to sell the
team to a group headed by former Duke University basketball
players Christian Laettner and  Brian Davis , who were unable to
secure financing before a deadline.  Heisley also held talks with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Chief Executive
 Larry Ellison , whose desire to move the franchise to California
scuttled the negotiations.  Pera would pay about $350 million, ESPN said, citing
sources with knowledge of Heisley’s plan. The transaction would
require approval from league owners. The Grizzlies had an
estimated value of $269 million, 29th among the league’s 30
teams, according to Forbes’ annual franchise valuations.  “In Robert, we have a new owner who has expressed a total
commitment to build on our success in Memphis,” Heisley said in
the statement.  The Grizzlies lost to the  Los Angeles Clippers  in the first
round of this season’s playoffs.  “We’ve put together a team which is poised to continue its
improvement,” Heisley said. “We have an outstanding team of
players, coaching staff, and basketball and business
management.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  