-- NLRB Asks Court to Reconsider Ruling on 2011 Board Vote
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-06-11T21:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/nlrb-asks-court-to-reconsider-ruling-on-2011-board-vote-1-.html
The U.S.  National Labor Relations
Board  asked a federal judge to reconsider a ruling on the
panel’s voting procedures, seeking to reinstate a measure that
would allow for faster votes in union elections.  U.S. District Judge James Boasberg in  Washington  threw out
the board’s rule change on union balloting May 14, saying the
agency lacked a quorum when it approved the measure by the vote
of two members.  The court’s finding that a third member of the board “did
not ‘show up’ or participate” in the Dec. 16, 2011, vote “is
predicated upon a mistaken understanding of the facts regarding
the board’s electronic voting room,” the board said today in a
court filing.  An electronic voting room mimics a meeting, the agency
said. A user shows up by logging in and participates by
reviewing and circulating documents and casting votes, the
agency said in the filing. Board member  Brian Hayes  was present
and participating and “it was clear error to ignore this and
interpret his non-voting as absence rather than abstention,”
the board said.  Hayes had already notified his two colleagues he would not
be attaching a dissenting statement to the final rule and he
would issue his dissent later,” the board said in the filing.
Although he abstained from the vote, he wasn’t absent, the board
said.  ‘Clear Error’  The court should reconsider its decision “to correct a
clear error, whether of law or of fact, and to prevent a
manifest injustice,” the board argued in the filing.  The rule change, challenged by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, simplified and shortened balloting at a time when the
unionized share of the workforce is falling, according to labor
relations consultant Phillip Wilson. The compressed schedule
could have cut the time permitted for voting in half to as few
as 15 days, Wilson said.  “Member Hayes’s deliberate decision not to cast such a
vote does not deprive the board of a quorum,” the agency said.  Three members of the board are required to constitute a
quorum, according to the filing.  The case is Chamber of Commerce of the U.S. v. National
Labor Relations Board, 11-cv-02262, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  