-- NYC Seeks Private Companies to Run 90,000 Parking Spaces
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-11T18:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/nyc-seeking-private-companies-to-operate-90-000-parking-spaces.html
New York City  is giving private
operators until July 31 to show their interest in running the
biggest U.S. municipal parking system.  In a request for qualifications issued today, the
Department of Transportation offered an opportunity to compete
for “a potential private management agreement” to oversee
almost 90,000 parking spaces across five boroughs.  “We’re seeking private-sector expertise on innovative ways
to enhance the efficiency and quality of parking services,”
 Julie Wood , a spokeswoman for Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , said
today in an e-mail.  New York officials have set up the competition as they
confront a deficit of at least $3 billion in a projected $72.4
billion fiscal 2013 budget. Cities around the U.S. have begun to
view their street curbs as assets. They’re installing meters,
sometimes equipped with devices that adjust rates higher during
times of peak demand, to deal with rising labor costs and
insufficient revenue.  Since the idea of private meter operation arose last year,
 New York  officials have said they want to avoid repeating the
experience of  Chicago , where motorists may pay a Morgan Stanley-
led partnership at least $11.6 billion to park at city meters
over the next 75 years, 10 times what former Mayor Richard Daley
got when he leased the system in 2008.  “We are taking a careful and deliberate approach to avoid
mistakes others have made,” Wood said. New York would retain
“full control” of rates and violations enforcement, she said.  Congested Areas  Metered parking in  Manhattan  below 96th Street costs $3 per
hour, according to rates posted on the Transportation
Department’s  website . Fees are higher for commercial vehicles
and in some congested neighborhoods such as  Greenwich Village ,
where motorists pay $5 for 60 minutes from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m.  The city’s parking revenue increased 6.3 percent to $156
million in 2011 compared with 2010, from traditional  meters  and
Muni-Meters, which accept credit cards and issue a receipt to be
placed on the dashboard, according to the city’s request for
qualifications. Net earnings, after expenses, increased 12.8
percent to $93 million in that period.  Officials expect the system’s revenue to increase 22.8
percent this year as the city raises rates and moves from
mechanical meters to Muni-Meters, allowing for more parking
spaces, the city document said. Next year, transportation
officials predict another 6.3 percent increase, with revenue
reaching $204 million, the request states.  The city will also collect about $518 million in parking
 fines  this year, the budget office estimates.  Minimum Qualifications  Minimum qualifications for operators include running
systems of at least 100,000 spaces, 20,000 of which must be on-
street, and the financial capacity to post a $100 million letter
of credit or cash collateral, enough to guarantee at least one
year of net revenue for the system, according to the city
request, which was posted on the Internet today. Responses are
due July 31.  Technology-based amenities such as pay-by-phone may be part
of the system, Wood said.  The idea was first proposed more than a year ago, when the
city requested bids from financial advisers, and selected
 Greenhill & Co. (GHL)  in July.  Indianapolis approved a 50-year agreement in November 2010
placing  Xerox Corp.’s (XRX)  Affiliated Computer Services in charge of
managing and collecting revenue from its 3,600 parking meters.
The Indiana city agreed to accept a smaller upfront payment so
that it could retain a 30 percent stake in future revenue and
also has the right to buy out the private operator,   Michael Huber , deputy mayor for economic development, said in an
interview last year.  New York’s mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  