-- Obama-Allied Super-Pac Joins Union in Spanish Romney Ads
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-06-11T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/obama-allied-super-pac-joins-union-in-spanish-romney-ads.html
Organized labor and a super-PAC
supporting President  Barack Obama ’s re-election have teamed up
for a $4 million ad campaign that targets swing-state Hispanic
voters and aims to portray  Mitt Romney  as callous toward the
working class.  The Spanish-language television and radio ads announced
today by Priorities USA Action and the  Service Employees
International Union  juxtapose Hispanic voters critical of Romney
with video and audio clips of verbal miscues by the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee on jobs and the economy. These
include him saying, “I like to be able to fire people who
provide services to me,” “I’m also unemployed,” and “You can
focus on the very poor -- that’s not my focus.”  The advertising offensive targets a constituency whose
support Obama will attempt to hold for re-election in November.
Obama in 2008 won the Hispanic vote over Republican  John McCain 
by 67 percent to 31 percent, according to an analysis by the Pew
Hispanic Center of exit polls.  Former Republican National Committee Chairman  Ed Gillespie ,
now a Romney campaign adviser, said earlier this year that
Republicans have to win closer to 40 percent of the Hispanic
vote this year or risk being “consigned to minority status.”  With the economy threatening to undercut Obama’s overall
support, maximizing the allegiance of Hispanic voters may be
crucial to Obama in several tightly contested states.  Latino Voters  In one of the ads, a Latino voter says, “I’d never support
someone with that type of thinking, values or theories,” while
another says, “If we are not important for him, neither is our
vote.”  The ads are to air in  Colorado , Florida and Nevada, three
swing states with significant Hispanic voting populations,
starting this week and running through the summer. They are
meant to counter Romney’s own outreach to Hispanic voters
through Spanish-language ads.  SEIU Secretary-Treasurer Eliseo Medina said in a statement
that “when Latinos hear Romney, in his own words, they really
know what’s going on,” and that they feel “insulted and
angry” to hear the wealthy businessman and former Massachusetts
governor joke about being unemployed.  At 16 percent of the  U.S. population , Hispanics are the
nation’s largest ethnic minority.  In Colorado, the Hispanic population has grown by about 40
percent since 2000. In Nevada, Hispanics comprise more than a
quarter of the population.  Obama won 57 percent of Florida’s Hispanic vote four years
ago -- one of the keys to his victory over McCain there -- after
Republican President  George W. Bush  carried the state’s Hispanic
vote in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  