-- Obama Housing Fix Faltered on Carrots-Not-Sticks Policy
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/obama-housing-fix-faltered-on-carrots-not-sticks-policy.html
Three years ago, when President
 Barack Obama  unveiled his plan for solving the U.S. housing
crisis, one in five borrowers owed more on mortgages than their
homes were worth, banks were repossessing 74,000 homes per month
and sale prices had plunged 30 percent from their 2006 peak.  “All of us will pay an even steeper price if we allow this
crisis to deepen -- a crisis which is unraveling homeownership,
the middle class, and the American Dream itself,” Obama told
the audience gathered at a high school in Mesa, Arizona, an area
with one of the highest foreclosure rates in the country.  The crisis did deepen.  Home prices  continued to fall in
most states during the Obama administration. Nearly 23 percent
of borrowers are underwater on their loans, virtually unchanged
from 2009, according to real estate data firm CoreLogic.  Obama didn’t deliver on his vow that day to avert as many
as 9 million foreclosures. While his plan was undermined in part
by the weak U.S. economic recovery, it also lacked broad and
aggressive measures. Relief programs have tinkered around the
edges of the housing finance system because Obama’s advisers
chose early on not to expend political capital forcing banks to
forgive mortgage debt. Instead, they created homeowner aid
programs with voluntary participation by lenders and strict
rules to avoid rewarding speculators or irresponsible borrowers.  ‘Not Bold’  “They were well-intended, but they were not bold enough,”
said Steven Nesmith, a former vice president at loan servicer
 Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  who served as an assistant secretary in
the Department of Housing and Urban Development during the
administration of President  George W. Bush . “They should have
gone bigger and bolder with a robust plan to deal with housing,
not just trying to stabilize the broader financial-services
system and the banks.”  The administration’s strategy of providing incentives to
lenders to help troubled homeowners has been hobbled by
complexity, according to mortgage bond investors, advocates for
borrowers and those in the business of managing home loans.  Some critics say the administration’s mistake was
intervening to stop foreclosures in the first place and that
home prices should have been left to hit bottom on their own.  “We would have been better off letting the market heal
itself,” said Anthony B. Sanders, professor at  George Mason
University . “The recovery would have been quicker.”  Long-Term Uncertainty  At the same time, expecting that the market would have
improved by now, the administration didn’t push to eliminate
uncertainty that hinders long-term planning by private players
in the business. Lenders have tightened credit while they await
details of new housing finance rules and a plan for winding down
government-owned mortgage companies  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac .
While interest rates are at historic lows, would-be buyers of
troubled properties are finding it difficult to get loans.  “We’re three years into the administration and six years
into the decline in housing,” said Jonathan Lieberman, head of
residential mortgage securities business at the Angelo, Gordon &
Co. investment firm. “It’s important to have some rules.”  To be sure, Obama’s housing officials can point to some
 successes . While falling short of the goal of reaching 9 million
people, the two main federal programs for refinancing or
modifying mortgages have  reached  2.2 million borrowers. The free
fall in home prices has slowed. There are bidding wars on
properties again in some markets.  ‘Mixed Reviews’  “To be fair, you’d say there are mixed reviews on any
individual program, but the multitude of programs clearly had an
impact on stemming the crash,” said  David Stevens , president of
the  Mortgage Bankers Association , who served as commissioner of
the  Federal Housing Administration  during the first two years of
Obama’s term.  White House officials in recent weeks have been speaking
out about their housing record, saying that any assessment must
take into account the impact their programs have had as a model
for private industry. Under that standard, there have been  5
million  loan modifications, government and private, since 2009.  “One of the most important things government can do in its
efforts to heal the housing crisis is to set a template that the
private industry can use and follow,”  Gene Sperling , director
of the president’s National Economic Council, told a real estate
industry audience last month. “Setting an industry standard
like that is a meaningful accomplishment.”  What the officials don’t emphasize is that one in  five 
borrowers helped by the government’s mortgage modification
program since 2009 has slipped back into default. A recent
revamp of the separate refinancing program helped 180,000
homeowners in the first quarter of this year, but only 4,400 of
them were the most deeply troubled borrowers -- those whose
loans exceed the value of their homes by at least 25 percent.  Obama pledged to use $50 billion from the $700 billion bank
bailout approved by Congress in 2008 to help homeowners. Only
about $3.7 billion of that has been spent.  Ripple Effect  Brian Deese, deputy director of the National Economic
Council, said the administration should be measured by the
ripple effect of its policies, and by the broad set of steps now
being taken to encourage everything from refinancing to
principal reductions on underwater loans.  “I think those steps are all making a difference,” Deese
said. “Most importantly, every place we can responsibly do
something to help homeowners and help heal the market, we’re
going to take those steps. It reflects the president’s
commitment that this is a tough and intractable problem, but
we’re going to stay on it.”  Campaign Promise  The week before the 2008 election, soon-to-be Vice
President Joseph Biden Jr. told a campaign crowd in Ocala,
Florida, that he sympathized with the hundreds of thousands of
Floridians who were upside down on their mortgages.  “If we can help  Wall Street , folks, we sure can help
Silver Springs Boulevard right here in Ocala,” Biden said.
“That’s why we believe we should reform our bankruptcy laws,
giving bankruptcy judges the authority to reduce the amount of
principal owed, give them the authority to go out and reset the
terms of the mortgage so people can stay in their homes.”  Obama also said in 2008 that he backed the change in
bankruptcy law, popularly known as “cram-down.” While the
change in law could have given people in dire straits an avenue
to rebuild their finances, it was vigorously opposed by lenders.  The campaign promise wasn’t kept. The White House never
publicly changed its stance but didn’t push for passage when a
cram-down bill came to a vote in the Senate in April 2009. The
measure failed, with 12 Democrats voting against it.  Peter Swire, who coordinated housing finance policy at the
National Economic Council from 2009 to 2010, said the White
House and the Treasury Department were so focused on getting
banks to raise capital in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis
that they had no ability to also push for cram-down. In
addition, cram-down would be a complicated process that they
believed would not work for every troubled borrower.  ‘Huge Priority’  “Getting the financial system to work was a huge
priority,” said Swire, an Ohio State University law professor.
“The vote on cram-down happened in that context.”  Another former White House official, speaking on condition
of anonymity because the internal discussions were private, said
the White House thought it couldn’t win the cram-down fight and
stayed out to preserve political capital.  The White House focused on developing the voluntary Home
Affordable Modification Program and the Home Affordable
Refinance Program, known by the easily confused names of HAMP
and HARP, which paid lenders an incentive fee for each loan they
modified if borrowers could meet a long list of criteria.  “Instead of using sticks, they tried to use carrots,”
said Jeff Gentes, managing attorney at the Connecticut Fair
Housing Center, who often tries to stop foreclosures by taking
banks and other firms that service mortgages to court. “Obama
abandoned the campaign promise to pursue cram-downs, which would
have given us a stick. Servicers are incorrigible. They only
respond to sticks.”  No Rewards  At the same time, there was a debate within the
administration about just who should benefit from its aid
programs. Shaun Donovan, secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, pushed for the government to bear some of
the cost of reducing mortgage principal for underwater
borrowers. Others, including Treasury Secretary Timothy J. Geithner, argued against it, saying they feared it could reward
people who tapped  home equity  to support lavish lifestyles.  The administration chose to focus on reducing monthly
payments for troubled borrowers, not their overall debt, and set
barriers to entry to help only homeowners who had ended up in
trouble through no fault of their own.  “We made that choice because we thought it would be
dramatically more expensive for the American taxpayer, harder to
justify,” Geithner said at a congressional hearing in December
2009, adding that paying banks to reduce principal would
“create much greater risk of unfairness.”  No Bailouts  That choice ultimately limited the program’s reach. The
often difficult process of getting a HAMP modification was an
“unfortunate outcome” of designing a program that would
“protect against providing free bailouts to people who weren’t
deserving,” said Stevens, the former FHA commissioner, who is
to become president of SunTrust Mortgage later this month.  By the end of 2009, banks and other servicers had completed
fewer than 70,000 permanent mortgage modifications under HAMP.  The lenders were unprepared to make the switch from
collecting mortgage payments to walking borrowers through the
complexities of a mortgage restructuring. In addition, the
administration didn’t anticipate that squabbles between lenders
who held primary mortgages and those who held second liens on
properties would prevent homeowners from getting modifications.  Executives for the largest servicers, including  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America Corp. , were summoned to White House
meetings to discuss why progress was so slow. Servicers
complained borrowers were hard to reach and failed to fill out
paperwork correctly. Meanwhile, outside Washington, borrowers
told housing counselors that servicers were hard to reach and
weren’t acting in good faith to keep them in their homes.  Overlapping Initiatives  When the administration changed its programs in response to
the complaints, not everyone viewed it as an improvement. Having
a set of overlapping initiatives, each with its own regulations,
was difficult enough. Modifying those rules added to “the lack
of clarity,” said Nesmith, now chief operating officer of Ticor
Title, a title-insurance company.  “Any time you do something too many times, you keep
rolling it out and rolling it out, it creates confusion,” he
said.  In retrospect, said Swire, the former NEC official, it
would have made sense for the administration to push for cram-
down early on. If bankruptcy judges had been given the power to
decide disputes between multiple lenders with claims on the same
property, more foreclosures would have been averted.  “Cram-down, on balance, today, would have been a good
idea,” he said.  Dodd-Frank Act  Besides temporary relief to troubled borrowers, Obama vowed
during the 2008 campaign to overhaul the broader set of rules
for mortgage finance to protect buyers and prevent future
housing bubbles. He made good on the promise by signing the
Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul in July 2010.  Still, regulators didn’t meet the July 2011 deadline set by
Congress to settle on the language in most of the rules. The
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, for example, hasn’t yet
defined which mortgages are considered consumer-friendly and
which are considered abusive. Banking regulators including the
 Federal Reserve  and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. are
still working on a rule requiring lenders to retain an interest
in risky loans that they securitize.  In addition, Geithner hasn’t released a long-promised plan
for winding down  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the taxpayer-owned
mortgage financiers that own or guarantee $5 trillion in loans.
The two companies have been operating under U.S. conservatorship
since bad bets on risky loans drove them to the brink of
insolvency in 2008.  Pricing ‘Unknown’  That leaves the government as the primary source of funds
for new mortgages.  “Investors cannot come back into the mortgage market
because we cannot price the unknown,” said Chris Katopis,
executive director of the Association of Mortgage Investors.  Lenders are also facing the fallout from the poor
underwriting standards of the past. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
are reviewing billions of dollars in loans issued during the
bubble years and are requiring lenders to buy many of them back
if there’s evidence of inadequate documentation.  Uncertain about their liability for vetting borrowers,
lenders have raised credit standards to new highs, shutting out
some would-be buyers of distressed properties. To qualify for a
loan, average buyers need a 20 percent down payment and a 745
credit score, which would rank them in the top 40 percent of
borrowers, according to data from Ellie Mae, a Pleasanton,
California, software company.  Shrinking Loans  As a result, the number of new loans is shrinking. While
the government share of the mortgage market has ballooned to 90
percent, the overall number of new purchase loans backed by
Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the FHA dropped to 1.7 million in
2011, down from 2.1 million in 2009, according to data compiled
by Brian Chappelle, a partner at bank consulting firm Potomac
Partners.  “The typical first-time and move-up buyers who have been
the backbone of the housing market are really the ones being
hurt,” Chappelle said.  The Obama administration faced another obstacle to housing
momentum in the fall of 2010. Lawyers representing borrowers in
many states and cities discovered that banks were seizing homes
on the basis of faulty legal documents. Major servicers
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Bank of America suspended
foreclosures amid state and federal investigations.  In February, Donovan helped broker a $25 billion settlement
between the five largest servicers and 49 state attorneys
general. The banks agreed to spend $17 billion of that on
troubled borrowers, including writing down principal on
delinquent loans.  Cleaning Up  “One of the most important ways this settlement helps
homeowners is that it forces the banks to clean up their acts
and fix the problems uncovered during our investigations,” the
HUD secretary said at a press conference where the settlement
was announced.  Out in the field, housing counselors and troubled borrowers
say they’re seeing little evidence that servicers are more
willing to modify loans rather than foreclose.  Since the settlement, “I have seen virtually no
improvement whatsoever,” said Melissa Huelsman, a Seattle
attorney who specializes in aiding homeowners with mortgage
problems.  Huelsman said she filed an emergency injunction in King
County Court to stop HomeStreet Bank, a servicer for Fannie Mae,
from seizing a client’s home using what she alleges are the same
kind of faulty documents at issue in the national investigation.  California Funds  The administration also is hamstrung when it comes to
forcing states to use the proceeds of the settlement to help
homeowners. California Governor  Jerry Brown  is pushing to use
$400 million of his state’s share to help plug a $15.7 billion
hole in the budget instead of its intended purpose: monitoring
how banks comply with the agreement.  H.D. Palmer, a spokesman for Brown, said the governor is
proposing to use the funds for other housing-related expenses
“in a way that provides relief to the state’s general fund.”  With five months before the Nov. 6 presidential vote, Obama
expanded the HARP refinancing program, which can stave off
foreclosure and put extra spending money into the pockets of
homeowners able to get a lower  interest rate .  On a visit last month to Nevada, a key swing state among
the hardest-hit by the popped housing bubble, Obama asked voters
to give his plans more time. He chose to deliver the message
while standing in front of a Reno home with a couple whose
refinance under HARP saved them $240 on their monthly payment.  The president’s speech all but acknowledged that the recent
changes were more tweaks than sweeping reforms. He urged his
audience to pressure lawmakers to allow underwater borrowers
with privately backed mortgages to switch into cheaper
government loans.  ‘Nag Them’  “Nag them until they actually get it done,” Obama said.
“It’s one small step that will help us create the kind of
economy that all Americans deserve.”  The Reno couple who hosted Obama, Paul and Valerie Keller,
also have modest goals after being crushed in the credit crisis.  Their troubles started when customers of Paul Keller’s
home-remodeling business stopped paying bills as the economy
soured, Keller said in a phone interview. In a 2007 refinance,
the couple took $51,000 out of their home’s equity to cover his
business debts. Then their home’s value plunged from about
$250,000 to $100,000, with $168,000 still left on the loan.  Lowering the monthly payment “is nice, and the HARP
program did work for us,” Keller said.  He said he and his wife aren’t looking to do more than
escape without any more financial disasters.  “Breaking even -- at this point that’s the goal,” Keller
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  