-- Oil Falls After Spanish Bailout Fails to Ease Europe Debt
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-06-11T20:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/oil-rises-on-spain-bailout-china-data-spur-economic-opti.html
Oil fell to an eight-month low in
 New York  on skepticism that  Spain ’s bailout plan will succeed in
easing the euro region’s debt crisis, which is slowing economic
growth and curbing fuel use.  Futures dropped 1.7 percent as equities and the euro
declined in the first trading day after Spain asked euro-region
governments for as much as 100 billion euros ($126 billion) to
help shore up its banking system. Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said there may be a need for higher OPEC output.  “There’s skepticism about the plan” for the rescue, said
 John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based
hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The euphoria was short-
lived.”  Crude oil for July delivery declined $1.40 to $82.70 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Oct. 6. The contract increased as much as
$2.54, or 3 percent, early in the session. Prices have fallen 16
percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement dropped $1.47, or 1.5
percent, to end the session at $98 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the lowest settlement since
Jan. 27, 2011.  The drop in both New York oil and Brent accelerated after
the settlement as equities declined. Nymex crude fell 3.1
percent to $81.52 a barrel at 4:11 p.m., and Brent decreased 2.8
percent to $96.71.  Brent Drop  Spain’s rescue request followed weeks of concern that bad
loans at its banks might overwhelm public finances. Brent, a
benchmark for more than half the world’s crude, has fallen 22
percent since its highest close this year on March 13, amid
speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis will derail the economic
recovery and curb fuel demand.  Spain became the fourth euro member -- following Greece,
Ireland and Portugal -- to seek a bailout since the debt crisis
began almost three years ago, after its borrowing costs
approached euro-era highs.  “Every rescue package has less impact than the previous
one,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence
Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion.
“We need to see a solution. Either the euro has to be dissolved
or we need to see Europe unify on a fiscal and economic basis.”  The euro slipped 0.3 percent against the dollar. A weaker
common currency and stronger dollar curb commodities’ appeal as
an alternate investment to the dollar. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index decreased 1.3 percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
fell 1.1 percent.  OPEC Output  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
supplies about 40 percent of the world’s crude, will keep its
official daily production ceiling at 30 million barrels a day
when it meets June 14 in Vienna, according to all 20 traders and
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Al-Naimi said “maybe” there is a need for a higher OPEC
production target. He spoke as he arrived late today in Vienna.  Saudi Arabia has been trying to lower the price of oil to
bolster the global economy as Western nations impose sanctions
on Iran.  The kingdom  pumped 9.9 million barrels of crude a day
in May, the highest level since at least January 1989, based on
monthly data compiled by Bloomberg. Brent oil should drop to
$100 as supply outweighs demand, al-Naimi said on May 13 in
Adelaide, Australia, when prices were near $112.  Iran  and  Venezuela  have criticized fellow members of the
12-country group for producing more than the existing quota.
OPEC pumped 31.595 million barrels a day last month, 1.595
million more than the limit agreed to at the December meeting,
according to a Bloomberg survey of  oil companies , producers and
analysts.  OPEC Jawboning  Venezuela is concerned about members’ non-compliance with
the ceiling and will address the issue during the meeting,
President  Hugo Chavez  told reporters on June 9. Venezuela
believes that $100 a barrel is a “fair price,” he said.  “This is the kind of jawboning you expect before an OPEC
meeting,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research
at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “You are sure to
hear the Iranians and Venezuelans say that prices are too low
and the spigots must be turned off. It’s an old pattern.”  The U.S. added seven nations to the list of countries
exempted from Iran oil sanctions, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  announced today: India, Malaysia, South Korea,  South
Africa , Sri Lanka, Turkey and Taiwan.  They “have all significantly reduced their volume of
crude-oil purchases from Iran,” Clinton said today in an e-
mailed statement.  China and Singapore weren’t granted exemptions. If a
country doesn’t prove it’s making necessary reductions by the
end of June, any institution in that nation that settles
petroleum trades through Iran’s central bank will be cut off
from the U.S. banking system.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 546,856
contracts as of 4:15 p.m. Volume totaled 687,726 contracts
yesterday, 22 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.45 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  