-- Oil Drops a Fourth Day on Naimi Comments, Iran Exemptions
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-06-12T12:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/oil-declines-as-al-naimi-says-opec-may-need-higher-quota.html
Oil traded near an eight-month low
after Saudi Arabia’s oil minister said OPEC may need a higher
output limit and the U.S. issued more exemptions from sanctions
on buying  Iran ’s crude, cutting the risk of supply disruption.  Futures slid as much as 2 percent after the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries said the market is “amply
supplied.” The U.S. added six countries and Taiwan to its list
of exemptions, saying they “significantly reduced” their
purchases of Iranian crude. U.S. gasoline  stockpiles  probably
climbed to a five-week high, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  “The comments from yesterday are surprising and suggest
Saudi Arabia isn’t willing to reduce production,”  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said by
phone. “Without a production cut, there will be considerable
oversupply in the market in the second half, which will put
further pressure on prices.”  Oil for July delivery dropped as much as $1.63 to $81.07 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange, the lowest since Oct. 6. The contract was at $82.56 at
1:44 p.m. London time. Prices are down 17 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement slipped 83 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $97.17 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
West Texas Intermediate declined to $14.65 a barrel, compared
with $15.30 yesterday.  OPEC Meeting  WTI extended losses after a so-called bearish engulfing
pattern formed on the daily candlestick chart, a tool used by
technical analysts to predict price moves, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Crude’s 50-day moving average, at $96.42
a barrel today, erased its premium to the 200-day mean,
signaling a possible “dead cross” formation. Investors
typically sell contracts when a shorter moving average falls
below a longer one.  Saudi Arabia ’s analysis suggests OPEC needs a higher
production ceiling, the Gulf Oil Review cited  Ali al-Naimi  as
saying in a June 2 to June 3 interview. The minister, who
arrived in Vienna yesterday, responded to the article by telling
reporters that he said “maybe” the quota needs to be
increased.  Output Ceiling  Persian Gulf Arab members of OPEC want to raise the group’s
output limit by 500,000 barrels a day, a person familiar with
the situation said today.  OPEC, which supplies 40 percent of the world’s crude, meets
in the Austrian capital June 14 to decide on output levels for
the second half of the year. Its 12 members exceeded the ceiling
by 1.9 million barrels a day in April, according to the
 International Energy Agency . Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest
crude exporter, has pumped more than 9.5 million barrels a day
since June 2011, the longest stretch for at least 11 years, data
from the U.S. Energy Department show.  “Ongoing challenges to world economic recovery have led to
even larger uncertainties for oil demand in the second half of
this year,” OPEC said in its monthly report. Concern over
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and slowing growth in  emerging
markets  has caused prices to drop, it said.  OPEC’s crude output fell for the first time in eight months
in May as Iran, Nigeria and Iraq reduced production, it said in
the report. Output dropped to 31.58 million barrels a day from
31.64 million in April, it said citing secondary sources.  “Market sentiment will continue to remain fragile while
waiting for the outcome of the upcoming OPEC meeting,”  Harry
Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in London, said in an e-mail.  U.S. Exemptions  The U.S. added  India , Malaysia,  South Korea ,  South Africa ,
Sri Lanka, Turkey and  Taiwan  to the list of exemptions from
sanctions, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement. Clinton announced in March that Japan and
10 European Union nations had qualified for an exemption for a
renewable period of 180 days.  India and South Korea were the third- and fourth-largest
buyers of Iran’s crude in the first half of last year, according
to the U.S. Department of Energy. China, the Persian Gulf
nation’s biggest customer, wasn’t exempted from the sanctions,
which are targeted at curbing  Iran’s nuclear program .  Countries have until June 28 to demonstrate they have
“significantly reduced” purchases from the Islamic Republic,
OPEC’s second-biggest producer, or their banks that settle the
oil trades may be cut off from the U.S. financial system.  U.S.  gasoline  inventories rose 1.5 million barrels last
week to 205 million, the highest level since the period ended
May 4, according to the median estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News before an Energy Department report
tomorrow. Crude stockpiles probably dropped by 1.5 million
barrels, the survey showed.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in  London  at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  