-- Tokyo Overtakes Luanda as Most Expensive City for Expats
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-06-12T07:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/tokyo-overtakes-luanda-as-most-expensive-city-for-expats.html
Tokyo advanced past the Angolan
capital Luanda to become the world’s most expensive city for
expatriates of 214 ranked by Mercer, while Moscow remains the
most costly place to live in  Europe .  “Recent world events, including economic and political
upheavals, have affected the rankings for many regions through
currency fluctuations, inflation, and volatility in
accommodation prices,” Mercer said today in its annual
Worldwide Cost of Living Survey.  The analysis uses New York as a base city and measures the
comparative prices of more than 200 items in each location, such
as transport, clothing, food, household goods and entertainment.
Housing costs, which are also included, are critical in the
ranking as they are often the biggest expense for expatriates.  A pair of blue jeans costs $174 in Luanda while expats in
Moscow pay about $9.60 for an international newspaper, Mercer
said. In  Tokyo , a cup of coffee including service averages $8.15
and the monthly rent on a luxury two-bedroom unfurnished
apartment runs $4,766, according to the consulting company.  Geneva retained its ranking as the world’s fifth most
expensive city for expats, while Zurich moved up one place to
sixth and the Swiss capital, Bern, gained two spots to 14
following the strengthening of the franc against the dollar.
Karachi is the least expensive city for expats, less than a
third as costly as Tokyo, Mercer said.  Europe Cheaper  Most European cities dropped in the ranking, mainly due to
what Mercer called a “considerable weakening” of local
currencies against the dollar. The euro has lost 3.9 percent in
the past six months, the worst performance among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes.  Oslo fell to 18 from 15 in the rankings,  London  dropped to
25 from 18 and Paris slipped 10 places to 37. Milan, Rome,
Stockholm, Vienna, Amsterdam, Brussels and Dublin all lost
between seven to 14 places.  “Despite some marked price increases across the region in
the first half of last year and widespread increases in VAT
charges, most European cities dropped in the ranking,” said
Nathalie Constantin-Metral, who compiled the data. “This is
mainly due to the unstable economic situation across Europe,
which has led to the depreciation of most local currencies
against the dollar.”  Rental accommodation prices have slid in Greece and Spain,
which required international bailouts, as well as in  Italy ,
Constantin-Metral said.  Bucking the Trend  Most British cities also slipped in the ranking as the
British pound fell against the dollar, said Milan Taylor, head
of Mercer’s data and product services in the U.K. and Ireland.  “Birmingham and  Belfast  bucked the trend, moving up in the
ranking mainly because rental costs for expatriates increased a
fair bit and price increases in these cities were higher than
in, say, London and Glasgow,” Constantin-Metral said in a
statement.  Tel Aviv remains the costliest city for expatriates in the
Middle East, though it dropped seven places to 31, while Jeddah,
Saudi Arabia, is still the cheapest in the region, at 186.
Johannesburg fell 23 places to 154 and Cape Town lost 21 to rank
179, “reflecting the considerable weakening the South African
rand has suffered against the  U.S. dollar  in the last year,”
Mercer said.  Venezuelan Inflation  Higher consumer prices also helped catapult Caracas,
Venezuela, up 22 places to 29 in the ranking, though Sao Paulo
and Rio de Janeiro, at 12 and 13, remain the most expensive
cities for foreigners in the Americas. Venezuela’s annual
 inflation  rate stood at 22.6 percent in May.  Osaka , Japan’s third-largest city, advanced three places to
No. 3, followed by Singapore at 6 and  Hong Kong  at 9. Higher
prices for goods and a stronger  yuan  pushed Chinese cities
including Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen and Guangzhou up in the
rankings, Constantin-Metral said.  In New Zealand, both Auckland and Wellington jumped a
“very significant” 62 places following “large increases in
accommodation cost and demand, coupled with a stronger  New
Zealand dollar ,” she said. “Demand for rental properties has
also increased significantly in all the Australian cities we
rank. Coupled with very limited availability, the result has
been very tight markets and increased prices.”  Along with Karachi, the cheapest cities for expatriates are
Islamabad,  Pakistan ; Managua,  Nicaragua ; Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan;  La
Paz ,  Bolivia ; Tunis; and Kolkata, India, according to Mercer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  