-- Olam Gains After Announcing Buyback of Shares: Singapore Mover
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   E e   C h i e n   C h u a
-- 2012-06-11T09:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/olam-gains-after-announcing-buyback-of-shares-singapore-mover.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity supplier partly owned by  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings
Pte., rose the most in more than seven months after announcing a
buyback of as much as 10 percent of its shares.  Olam climbed 8.9 percent, the most since Aug. 31, to S$1.77
at the close in Singapore. The stock had the biggest advance of
the 30-company  Straits Times Index (FSSTI) , which rose 2.3 percent.  The buyback reflects “the confidence that Olam’s board has
in the long term fundamentals and growth prospects of the
group,” Chief Executive Officer Sunny Verghese said in a June 8
statement announcing the plan. The company, one of the world’s
three largest suppliers of rice, cocoa and coffee, had dropped
24 percent this year to yesterday as commodity price volatility
eroded profit.  “The share buyback is a signal to investors that the
company is confident in its long-term prospects,” said  Carey Wong , an analyst with OCBC Investment Research Pte in Singapore.
“The market will also be looking at the funding ability. So far,
the company says it intends to fund using its internal resources,
but you have got to note that Olam’s borrowings to equities are
among the highest.”  Olam will execute the plan “over an appropriate period of
time” and at a maximum price of 105 percent of the average
closing price of the last five trading days at the time of
transaction, it said in the statement. The buyback will be
funded from existing resources, it said.  Olam’s total debt is more than three times its equity, the
highest among 60 of companies in the global food distribution
industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, which forecasts net income to reach $1 billion
by 2016, announced acquisitions of more than $500 million in the
past year, including its first sugar mill in  Brazil  and a
biscuit and candy maker in  Nigeria .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Ee Chien Chua in Singapore at 
 echua27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  