-- Older Fathers May Produce Offspring With Long Lives
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-06-11T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/older-fathers-may-produce-offspring-with-long-lives.html
Fathers who wait until they’re
almost 40 to have children may provide a unique benefit to their
offspring: longer lives.  Children of older fathers, those in their late 30s to early
50s, inherit longer  telomeres , caps at the end of the
chromosomes that protect them from degeneration, according to a
study today in the  Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences . Longer telomeres seem to promote slower aging and may
mean a longer lifespan for these children, the study said.  Previous research has shown that the older a man is when he
reproduces, the more likely the children are to carry
spontaneously arising mutations, which can produce disorders
like autism. Some research has suggested that children of older
fathers also have lower intelligence scores than those born to
younger men. Today’s study suggests late fatherhood isn’t all
risk, said  Dan Eisenberg , a study author and doctoral student at
 Northwestern University  in Evanston,  Illinois .  “Most literature also suggests risks from paternal age and
this is intriguing, in part, because it stands in contrast to
that,” Eisenberg said in a telephone interview. “We don’t
really know, on balance, what the net effect is.”  The longer telomeres may delay sexual development, and
direct the body’s energy into maintaining itself and staying
healthy, he said. The late fatherhood may serve as a signal that
mortality rates are low, Eisenberg said. The benefit was also
seen in grandchildren of men who became fathers at later ages.  The correlation held regardless of whether the families
were rich or poor, the study said.  Damaged Telomeres  Damaged telomeres cause cells to stop dividing, stem cells
to become dormant, organs to atrophy and brain cells to die. As
most cells age, the telomeres become shorter and shorter. This
isn’t the case for sperm, where telomeres lengthen with age. The
men may be passing the longer telomeres to their children,
boosting their lifespan.  On average, American men have their first child at the age
of 25, according to  a report  from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.  Today’s study looked at 2,023 children in the  Philippines .
There weren’t differences in telomere length between the boys
and girls of the same generation, the authors found. The study
was funded by the  National Science Foundation , the  National
Institutes of Health , and Northwestern University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 