-- Holder Contempt Vote on Gun Probe to Be Held by House Panel
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-06-11T18:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/holder-contempt-vote-on-gun-probe-to-be-held-by-house-panel-2-.html
A U.S. House panel will consider on
June 20 whether to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt
of Congress for failing to provide documents from a federal gun
investigation.  The Oversight and Government Reform Committee scheduled a
vote because the Justice Department hasn’t fully cooperated with
a congressional probe of Fast and Furious, a  law enforcement 
operation that allowed illegal U.S. weapons purchases to wind up
in Mexico, said the panel’s chairman,  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican, in a statement.  Republicans have repeatedly criticized the Obama
administration’s handling of the operation. Holder has said the
tactics used by law enforcement were inappropriate. The
operation targeted Mexican drug cartels between 2009 and January
2011 and allowed more than 2,000 guns to be carried away.  “Congress has an obligation to investigate unanswered
questions about attempts to smear whistle-blowers, failures by
Justice Department officials to be truthful and candid with the
congressional investigation, and the reasons for the significant
delay in acknowledging reckless conduct in Operation Fast and
Furious,” Issa said in the statement.  ‘Political Games’  Issa is playing “political games” and his call for a
contempt vote “fits within that tired political playbook that
has so many Americans disillusioned with Washington,” said
 Tracy Schmaler , a  Justice Department  spokeswoman, in a
statement.  The department and Issa’s staff have been discussing a
“mutually acceptable resolution” to the document requests,
Schmaler said.  The Justice Department has turned over more than 7,600
pages of records, Holder said at a House Judiciary Committee
hearing on June 7.  The contempt proceeding will focus on additional department
documents, produced after Congress began investigating the gun
operation, that haven’t been provided in response to the
committee’s subpoena, according to the statement.  The department has held back material where disclosure
might “jeopardize the independence, integrity, and
effectiveness” of criminal investigations, said Deputy Attorney
General  James Cole  in a May 15 letter to Issa.  ‘Valid Privilege’  The Obama administration hasn’t asserted any “valid
privilege” and “it is unacceptable that the  Department of
Justice  refuses to produce them,” Issa said.  The committee shouldn’t have scheduled a contempt vote
because federal law prohibits Holder from turning over many of
the subpoenaed documents, said  Elijah Cummings  of Maryland, the
panel’s top Democrat, in a statement.  Cummings said he is optimistic that an agreement can be
reached that avoids “the needless politicization of this very
serious issue.”  Two of the weapons from Fast and Furious were found at the
scene of the December 2010 murder of U.S. Border Patrol agent
Brian Terry in  Arizona , according to a congressional report.
Other guns were found in Mexico.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  