-- Home Refinancing Boosts Florida, Nevada: Economy
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-06-11T20:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/home-refinancing-boosts-florida-nevada-economy.html
Harold Fuller said he’s planning a
cruise with his wife to  Bermuda , their first vacation in two
years, after cutting his mortgage payments by $400 a month after
refinancing their $212,000 home in Apopka,  Florida .  “The key is to have  cash flow  to do some additional
things,” said Fuller, 65, who’s also planning more weekend
trips around the state. Fuller took advantage of the
government’s Home Affordable Refinance Program, which allows the
refinancing of homes worth less than their mortgage.  The combination of easier lending standards and record-low
 mortgage rates  is beginning to shore up real estate markets in
states where home values plunged. It has breathed new life into
some regional economies as Americans spend the savings at malls
and  auto dealers , spurring a pickup in sales-tax receipts that
is also helping replenish state coffers.  “HARP and refinancing more broadly is providing a
meaningful boost to homeowners’ cash flow, particularly in the
stressed housing states like Florida,” said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania, who testified last month on the program before the
Senate Banking Committee. “This is going to be a big plus for
stressed homeowners in very stressed markets with negative
equity.”  Reports today showed the global economy is slowing as
Europe deals with is debt crisis. French factory output dropped
in April and Italy’s economy shrank in the first quarter as
consumers, businesses and governments across the continent
retrenched.  Global Slowdown  In  China , retail sales trailed forecasts while exports
exceeded estimates, indicating last week’s interest-rate cut was
aimed at countering a domestic slowdown.  Stocks in the U.S. retreated as optimism over Spain’s
bailout plan gave way to skepticism it will succeed in halting
the debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.3
percent to 1,308.93 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  With about 5 million U.S. homes likely to be refinanced
this year, consumers could reduce their interest payments by
about $12 billion, Zandi said. About 1.2 million homeowners
refinanced mortgages in the first quarter, according to the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency . Interest payments saved by
borrowers typically exceed $2,500 a year, Zandi said.  Refinancing negative-equity loans “puts more discretionary
money in the pocket of consumers,” Federal Reserve Bank of
Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  told reporters after a speech
in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, June 6. “That helps the broader
economy.” HARP “is actually working rather well,” he said.  Beige Book  The Fed’s June 6  Beige Book  report on the economy cited
higher demand for refinancing through late May in the Atlanta
Fed district, which includes Florida and Georgia.  Refinancing under the program nearly doubled in the first
quarter to 180,000 from the prior three months, the FHFA said
June 1. The independent agency overseeing  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac  in January unveiled changes that included the removal of
loan-to-value requirements for borrowers, the waiving of some
fees, and promising lenders a break from the warranties they
sign when they originate certain loans.  The gain compares with what Zandi calls a “disappointingly
slow” start since HARP began in 2009. About 1.2 million loans
in the U.S. have been refinanced under the program, well short
the Obama administration’s goal of 4 million to 5 million.  Homeowners are also benefiting from falling borrowing
costs. The average 30-year U.S.  mortgage rate  dropped to 3.67
percent in the week ended June 7, down from 5.05 percent in
February, 2011, and the lowest since McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac began records in 1971.  Bank Revenue  The nation’s banks are being helped by the refinancing
program as well. U.S. banks’ second-quarter revenue will be
bolstered by “positive trends in mortgage originations on the
wings of HARP,” with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  among the larger beneficiaries, John E. McDonald, a Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. analyst, said in a June 7 report.  State budgets are also finding relief because of the jump
in refinancing. In Florida, revenue has exceeded expectations of
state forecasters the past four months, with April led by gains
in auto and durable-goods sales taxes, the state’s Office of
Economic & Demographic Research in Tallahassee said last month.  Consumer spending  in the U.S. rose at a 2.7 percent annual
rate in the first quarter, the most in more than a year,
government figures show. Retail spending has also been supported
by household wealth, which climbed in the first quarter by the
most in seven years, and a decline in  gasoline prices .  HARP Loans  In Florida, about 400,000 loans may be swapped to lower-
rate loans now that home values are less of an obstacle, said
Rob Nunziata, president of FBC Mortgage LLC in  Orlando . “We are
inundated with HARP loans, like a dam breaking,” he said.  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , which is based in Atlanta and operates
mostly in the U.S. Southeast, said HARP loans are “approaching
50 percent” of mortgage refinancing, with the bigger benefits
to customers in Florida and Georgia. “I think the running room
is pretty long,” Chief Executive Officer William Rogers said in
an interview May 15.  “It is like drinking from a fire hose right now,” said
Chris Brown, mortgage planning specialist at Certified Mortgage
Planners in Orlando, Florida. Brown said he’s receiving 25
applications a week, up from less than five a year ago.  The mortgage industry shrank during the financial crisis,
so “the biggest impediment to even more refis is capacity among
the large mortgage lenders,” Zandi said.  Rising Backlog  Cincinnati-based  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  just started doing
Florida loans under the new guidelines in April, and had built a
backlog of 400 customers with $80 million in loans, said Andy
Insua, who heads mortgage operations in the state. “This has
opened up refinancing for the first time in Florida,” he said.  About 44 percent of Florida mortgages had negative equity
in the fourth quarter, according to CoreLogic. Other states with
a high percentage of so-called under water properties were
Nevada, Arizona, Michigan and Georgia.  For Fuller, refinancing cut his monthly rate to 4.25
percent from 6.5 percent.  “I will definitely be able to buy a few more things,” the
retired human resources manager said.  Retailers are becoming more upbeat. The refinancing gain
has contributed to about a 6 percent increase in revenue through
May at Tamarac, Florida-based City Furniture Inc., which
operates 23 stores, said Keith Koenig, its president.  “We are seeing increased demand and the two are definitely
related,” he said.  Auto Sales  Sales at the 12 auto dealerships owned by Tampa-based
Morgan Auto Group are “ahead of budget this year and we
budgeted aggressively,” said Larry Morgan, the group’s chief
executive. “If they can save $500 on their home loan, that is
$500 they can spend on something else,” he said.  Not all the refinancing savings will go into spending.  Matt Ullery, 43, a software engineer in Palm Harbor,
Florida, near  St. Petersburg , says it was a “no brainer” to
cut his mortgage interest to 4 percent from 5.88 percent, where
it had been since his 2005 purchase. His home value has dropped
to $260,000 from $355,000 in an area he describes as “ground
zero for the real estate crisis.”  He’s using $400 in monthly savings to put more money into
retirement investments and accelerate mortgage principal
payments.  At the same time,  Mark Vitner , senior economist at Wells
Fargo Securities LLC in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said most
homeowners won’t resist adjusting their spending higher.  “Consumers tend to view their spending based on their cash
flow situation,” he said. “It is a big deal in Florida.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  