-- Omnicare CEO Figueroa Resigns After 18 Months in the Job
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-11T20:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/omnicare-ceo-figueroa-resigns-after-18-months-in-the-job.html
Omnicare (OCR)  Inc., a supplier of drugs
to nursing homes, said Chief Executive Officer John Figueroa
resigned, effective immediately. The shares fell the most in
eight months.  John Workman, Omnicare’s president and chief financial
officer, will take over as interim CEO while the company looks
for a permanent replacement. Figueroa, 49, had held the position
for 18 months. Nitin Sahney, executive vice president of
specialty care, will be promoted to chief operating officer, the
Covington, Kentucky-based company said in a statement today.  James Shelton, Omnicare’s chairman of the board, said in
the statement that Figueroa, 49, was leaving after having
“accomplished the goals we established.” The statement didn’t
provide a further reason for Figueroa’s resignation. Figueroa
won’t stay on the board, according to the statement.  Shelton, in a telephone interview, said the company’s board
started talking with Figueroa “several weeks” ago in a
conversation that “led up to a discussion late last week in
which John reached the decision that he was going to resign.”
While Figueroa offered to stay for another two months to help
with a transition, the company chose not to delay his departure,
Shelton said.  Omnicare shares fell 8.9 percent to $30.40 at the close in
New York, the biggest single-day decline since Oct. 4.  Justice Settlement  On May 11, Omnicare settled a case with the  U.S. Department
of Justice  for $50 million. The agency called it the “largest
controlled substance settlement in history,” and said that
Omnicare gave nursing home residents medicines without a
prescription, with missing prescription information, or not
documenting prescriptions.  Workman said in an interview that the settlement wasn’t a
factor in Figueroa’s resignation, because the events that the
 Justice Department  had investigated took place before Figueroa
was CEO.  Earlier this year the company also saw its attempt to buy
its largest competitor,  PharMerica Corp. (PMC) , blocked by the Federal
Trade Commission. In February, Omnicare dropped the hostile,
$441 million offer for PharMerica.  The company is looking for acquisitions, and could spend as
much as $150 million a year expanding its long-term care
business, Workman said. Omnicare may also buy a specialty
pharmaceutical distributor.  “We’re not averse to looking at larger acquisitions if
they’re not too far from our core and would have a good return
for shareholders, and generate cash,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  