-- Top Court Rejects Suit Over School Ban on Christian Gifts
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-06-11T14:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/top-court-rejects-suit-over-school-ban-on-christian-gifts.html
The U.S. Supreme Court today
declined to let two families sue elementary school principals
who kept their children from giving out Christian-themed gifts
during classroom parties.  The justices, without comment, rejected an appeal by the
families, who said officials at  Texas  grade schools should be
held personally liable for stifling the free-speech rights of
children seeking to proselytize grade-school classmates.  “All students, including elementary school students, have
at the very least the basic First Amendment right to be free
from discrimination against their private, non-curricular speech
based solely upon its religious viewpoint,” the families said
in their appeal.  The case involved questions about when government officials
can be sued as individuals for on-the-job conduct that violates
someone’s constitutional rights. Under a standard known as
qualified immunity, courts shield government employees from
personal liability, except in cases where the law is so clear
that reasonable people would know their actions were
unconstitutional.  The New Orleans-based 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
ruled that, while the school principals were wrong to keep
students from handing out religious material under these
circumstances, they couldn’t be sued. It wasn’t clear under the
law, the court said, where the principals should have drawn the
line between students’ right to profess their faith and a public
school’s obligation to avoid government support for a particular
religion.  Establishment Clause  The Constitution’s First Amendment bans government
“establishment of religion.”  Principals and teachers “must maintain the delicate
constitutional balance between students’ free-speech rights and
the Establishment Clause imperative to avoid endorsing
religion,” the principals said in their Supreme Court brief.
“Educators should not suffer personal monetary liability for
making a mistake in this area of the law.”  The lawsuits cited an incident in which Lynn Swanson,
principal at Thomas Elementary School in the Dallas suburb of
Plano, Texas, prohibited third-grade student Jonathan Morgan
from handing out gift bags at a 2003 classroom party. The bags
contained candy canes attached to laminated bookmarks saying
that the sweets were shaped like a letter “J” to represent
Jesus, and that the red stripes symbolized blood shed by Christ
to atone for mankind’s sins.  ‘Jesus Loves Me’  In another incident at Plano’s Rasor Elementary School, in
January 2004, Principal Jackie Bomchill wouldn’t let fifth-
grader Stephanie Versher distribute pencils imprinted with the
words “Jesus loves me this I know, for the Bible tells me so.”
Earlier that month, Bomchill prohibited the girl from handing
out tickets to a local church’s presentation of a play about the
crucifixion of Jesus.  In their suit, the children and their parents said that,
because other students were allowed to give gift bags containing
secular items at in-school events, the principals violated the
children’s free-speech rights by prohibiting only gifts with
religious messages.  “When the only thing that causes speech to be treated
differently -- one pencil allowed, the other forbidden, even
outside the school and after school hours -- is its religious
viewpoint, the Constitution is violated,” the families said in
their Supreme Court petition.  Religious Viewpoint  The children and their families believe their faith
requires them to “communicate religious viewpoint ideas to
their peers, classmates and other students” and introduce other
children “to the truth of the Christian faith,” according to
the appeals court ruling.  The principals said in their high court brief that the
families incorrectly portrayed parts of the school day, such as
classroom holiday parties, as forums for student-to-student
communications. School personnel organize and supervise all
aspects of a student’s time, they said.  “Parents have traditionally entrusted public schools with
the education of their children, but condition that trust on the
understanding that the classroom will not purposefully be used
to advance views that may conflict with the private beliefs of
the student and his or her family,” the principals said.  The cases are Morgan v. Swanson, 11-804, and Swanson v.
Morgan, 11-941.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  