-- Top Traders Risk Expulsion in Brain Drain From U.K. Visas
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-06-12T10:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/top-traders-risk-expulsion-in-brain-drain-from-u-k-visa-limits.html
U.K. lawyers are fielding a flood of
questions from  multinational firms  as a government shake-up of
visa rules threatens to cut short the careers of top traders and
other executives transferred from overseas.  Changes in the past two years include a five-year cap on
how long employees who moved to the U.K. under the Intra Company
Transfer system can stay, and the removal of their right to
settle permanently. The introduction of a cooling-off period
between visa applications means  employees  have to spend at least
12 months out of the country once their permit expires.  “We’ve seen quite significant panic among a number of
clients,” said Ben Sheldrick, a partner with Magrath LLP
Solicitors in  London . “The government wants to be seen to be
tough on immigration and one of the only groups they can be seen
to be reducing is the skilled migrants sponsored by
multinational firms.”  The government is restricting foreign workers as Britain’s
economy slumped into its first double-dip recession since the
1970s in the first quarter.  Bank of England  policy makers voted
to keep the benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent
on June 7. The Centre for Economics & Business Research Ltd.
said last month that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis may reduce
employment in London’s financial services industry to the lowest
level since 1996.  Counting Points  The Home Office introduced a points-based system in 2008,
culling the routes available for migrants to five tiers down
from 80 visa categories. This included scrapping the Highly
Skilled Migrant Programme Visa, a favored option for employees
of banks and law firms.  “We need to wean U.K. employers off their addiction to
migration and clamp down on backdoor routes used to avoid our
tighter controls,” the  Home Office  said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “We believe the changes we have introduced
represent a very good deal for businesses.”  A November report commissioned by the  City of London
Corporation  found a lack of clarity about immigration prompting
managers to postpone expansion and growth plans. It also said
some companies had lost teams to other countries, and had
reduced their U.K. headcount, an “early sign of a silent and
potentially devastating trend for the recovering U.K. economy.”  “We are giving the impression that we aren’t open for
business,” said Mark Boleat, City of London Corporation’s
policy chairman, which oversees Britain’s main financial
district. “We have worked with the Home Office as best we can
on its policies with our objective of minimizing the damage.”  Other Countries  Migrants to the U.S. can get L-1 intra-company transferee
visas, granted for an initial one- to three-year period and
extendable to seven years for executives and managers. They may
also be eligible for permanent residence status. In  Hong Kong ,
the equivalent employment visa is valid for an initial 12 months
and may be extended with no limit on renewals. After seven
years, holders may apply for permanent residence.  “The truth of the matter is the U.K. system can work
better than other immigration systems across the world,” said
Caron Pope, managing partner at Fragomen LLP in London, a global
immigration law firm. “Unfortunately, an insistence on layering
change over change has reduced business confidence and created a
complex and confusing policy framework.”  The Home Office maintains the Intra Company Transfer route
is a temporary solution for companies needing a particular skill
set from overseas, while permanent jobs should be filled
locally. If a U.K. applicant can’t be found, an overseas
employee can use the Tier 2 general visa route, which allows for
settlement after five years.  “Businesses really rely very heavily on people who have
proprietary knowledge of their organization,” said Sheldrick at
Magrath, which provides immigration services to Bloomberg LLP,
the parent company of Bloomberg News. The U.K. “used to compare
very favorably in terms of its efficiency and its route to
settlement but now it is certainly falling behind because of
these changes,” he said.  Policy Changes  To qualify for settlement, applicants must spend no more
than 180 days outside the country in five years. Some absences
can be ignored at the discretion of the Home Office. Additional
changes announced in April mean migrants that don’t qualify to
settle within six years have to leave for at least a year.  “It’s very difficult for companies to formulate a long-
term strategy for immigration given frequent changes in
policy,” said Margaret Burton, a director at Deloitte LLP in
London. “What concerns me is seeing people wrong-footed by the
law. We are being contacted by companies surprised that their
people are caught by exclusion periods and other recent changes
in policy.”  The  Conservative Party  pledged in its manifesto for the
2010 election to reduce net migration to the “tens of
thousands” by 2015. Immigration Minister Damian Green said last
year that the U.K. needs an immigration policy that reduces the
numbers to “levels where people feel comfortable.”  Slowing Economy  Sarah Mulley, an associate director for immigration at the
Institute for Public Policy Research, said “painful” policy
changes have done little to reduce net migration. She wrote in
an article on the institute’s website last month that  the
slowing economy  is the main driver of reduced work-related
immigration. The 10-year gilt yield reached a record low of
1.439 percent on June 1 as the economy contracts.  Net migration, which includes British, European Union and
non-EU nationals coming in or out of the U.K. for at least 12
months, was 252,000 in the year to September 2011, little
changed from a year earlier, according to last month’s data from
the  Office for National Statistics . The number of work-related
visas cleared in the year to March 2012 declined by 8 percent,
to 148,498.  “The aggregate view among our clients is that the changes
are making the U.K. an increasingly difficult place to do
business,” said  John Purcell , founder of London-based executive
search firm Purcell & Co. “London in particular is an
international city requiring international talent. Having a bias
toward U.K. nationals is a hugely retrograde step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  