-- OPEC Set to Break 10-Year Habit of Supply Cuts During Routs
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-11T17:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/opec-set-to-break-10-year-habit-of-supply-cuts-during-routs-3-.html
For the first time in a decade, OPEC
will maintain oil-output quotas while prices plunge as  Europe ’s
debt crisis and China’s slowing growth curb fuel demand.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
supplies 40 percent of the world’s crude, will keep its official
daily production ceiling at 30 million barrels when its 12
members meet in Vienna on  June 14 , all 20 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News said. The group has agreed to cuts at
every meeting in the past 10 years that coincided with a price
drop of more than 10 percent in the preceding three months, data
compiled by Bloomberg News show. OPEC will probably keep the
limit unchanged, a Middle East member state delegate said today.  Crude has fallen 22 percent in London since March 13 on
mounting concern that Europe’s debt crisis will derail global
growth and curb demand for energy. Saudi Arabia, the biggest
OPEC member, is pumping the most in 33 years to bring prices
below $100, a target set by its Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi . The
group exceeded its official output level by 6 percent in April,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  “They’re not going to want to rock the boat,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil research for the Americas at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “This is a very fragile time for the
global economy so I don’t think they’re going to take any
action. There’s no way that OPEC is going to announce any cut or
even say that very strongly.”  Brent Gains  Brent crude , a benchmark contract for more than half the
world’s oil, rose as high as $128.40 on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange on March 1, 43 percent above the five-year average of
$89.78. Its decline since then has been mirrored in the $5
trillion of market capitalization that was wiped off the value
of global equities amid Europe’s worsening financial crisis and
 China ’s slowest growth in three years.  The North Sea crude for July settlement swung between gains
of as much as 2.8 percent and losses of 1.5 percent today, to
trade at $98.97 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
Exchange, after Spain requested a European bailout to shore up
its banks and China’s imports of crude climbed to a record.  OPEC left quotas unchanged amid plunging prices at a
meeting on Sept. 27, 2001, after Brent had tumbled 18 percent
following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Prices were then 11
percent lower than three months earlier.  The group should raise its output limit, al-Naimi said in
an interview with the Gulf Oil Review published today.  Higher Ceiling  “Our analysis suggests that we will need a higher ceiling
than currently exists but, as usual, we will wait until we hear
the presentation from the secretariat concerning the outlook for
the international oil market, and the views of other member
countries,” he said.  Saudi Arabia ’s supply policy is opposed by Iran, the
second-largest member of the group. The Gulf state is facing a
full European Union ban on its oil exports from July 1 in
response to its nuclear-research program. The 27-member EU and
the U.S. contend it’s aimed at making atomic weapons, while Iran
says it is for civilian purposes.  There is a risk of a “serious decrease” in prices because
Saudi Arabia’s output creates “an imbalance,” Iranian OPEC
Governor Mohammad Ali Khatibi said in comments posted on the oil
ministry’s website May 29. A balance between supply and demand
would require OPEC cutting output by about 1.5 million barrels a
day,  Hussein Allidina , the head of commodities research at
Morgan Stanley in  New York , said June 5.  Kuwaiti Oil Minister Hani Abdulaziz Hussain said today that
some OPEC members are concerned about oil production levels and
the direction of crude prices.  ‘Tremendous Surplus’  “It is very clear that there are tremendous surplus
quantities that led to this severe decline in the prices,”
Iraqi Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said today in Vienna.
“This would not serve anyone.”  Oil prices  at $100 to $120 a barrel are “a reasonable and
acceptable price index,” al-Luaibi told a group of reporters.  OPEC pumped 31.85 million barrels a day last month, 1.85
million more than the limit agreed to at the last meeting in
December, and 950,000 more than will be needed in the third
quarter, according to the IEA. Saudi Arabia produced 10 million
barrels a day, the Paris-based IEA said in a report May 11.  The group faced declining prices at 12 of the 33 meetings
held since 2003, and announced supply cuts at seven. It reduced
supplies at all four of the summits when prices had fallen more
than 10 percent in the preceding three months. At the most
recent of these, in the second half of 2008, OPEC agreed to the
biggest curbs in its 53-year history.  ‘Drift Downwards’  While OPEC will eventually need to reduce supplies by about
500,000 barrels a day to prevent Brent dropping below $90,
prices are not yet low enough to trigger that action, according
to the London-based  Centre for Global Energy Studies , a
consultant group founded by former Saudi Arabian Oil Minister
Sheikh Ahmed Zaki Yamani. Saudi Arabia can tolerate as little as
$87, said  Leo Drollas , the CGES’s chief economist.  “The Saudis have been happy for the price to drift
downwards, but maybe they didn’t expect it to go that quickly,”
Drollas said in an interview on June 1. “Collectively they’re
quite happy with the way things are. They think prices will stay
where they are or rebound.”  OPEC, meeting from June 12, faces the prospect of taking a
decision on supply five days before elections in Greece that may
disrupt the global economy. A vote on May 6 failed to produce a
government, increasing concern the country may leave the 17-
nation euro. The  Federal Reserve  takes a decision on  interest
rates  on June 20.  The two events “will set the cadence for the demand
side,” said Jason Schenker, the president of Prestige Economics
LLC, a commodity-research firm based in Austin,  Texas .  Reduce Production  Saudi Arabia may start to reduce production from its 33-
year peak, seven of the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said. Al-
Naimi announced the $100 target for Brent in Australia May 13.  Declining exports from Iran may be offset by rising supply
from Libya and  Iraq . Libya’s daily output reached a 16-month
high of 1.4 million barrels in May while Iraq is pumping the
most in more than a decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  OPEC’s advisory panel, the Ministerial Monitoring
Committee, will meet at 4 p.m. on June 12 at the group’s
headquarters in Vienna. Their recommendation will be reviewed by
the 12 ministers on June 14 at the same time, with a decision
issued about an hour later.  Ministers may also discuss candidates to replace Secretary-
General Abdalla El-Badri, whose second term expires at the end
of 2012. Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq and Ecuador have submitted
proposals. The other members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Kuwait , Libya,
 Nigeria , Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  