-- Oprescu Wins Second Term as Bucharest Mayor, Exit Polls Show
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-06-11T07:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/oprescu-wins-second-term-as-bucharest-mayor-exit-polls-show.html
Sorin Oprescu, an independent backed
by  Romania ’s governing alliance, won a second term as mayor of
the capital Bucharest in local elections seen as an indicator of
voters support before parliamentary elections in few months.  Voters in Romania’s capital city gave Oprescu, backed by
the ruling  Social Liberal Union , 65.8 percent of the votes
compared with 15.7 percent for the Liberal Democrat rival Silviu
Prigoana, according to an exit poll conducted by pollster CCSB,
and 64.1 percent of the ballots compared with Prigoana’s 17.6
percent, according to pollster CURS.  The Social Liberal Union, which supports Prime Minister
Victor Ponta’s government, and the former ruling  Liberal
Democratic Party  will be the main contenders in  parliamentary 
elections in October or November. Bucharest is Romania’s biggest
city with 1.6 million people in a country of 19 million.  “The results are a signal of unity” and “it’s a great
responsibility for me to receive over 60 percent of the votes of
the Bucharest people,” Oprescu said in a televised speech from
Bucharest late yesterday after the exit polls were published. He
will remain independent, he added.  Ponta, a  Social Democrat , was appointed on May 7, after
ousting the government of former Prime Minister Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu, who was backed by a coalition led by the Liberal
Democrats, who lost public support amid unpopular measures
including a 25 percent cut in state wages and a value-added tax
increase in 2010.  Ponta’s government agreed with the country’s international
lenders to raise wages by 8 percent from this month. The cabinet
seeks to grant another 7.4 percent increase next year to restore
wages to pre-austerity levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  