-- Orban’s IMF Demand Delay Makes Forint Most Volatile Currency
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-06-12T15:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/orban-s-delay-on-imf-demands-makes-forint-most-volatile-currency.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s six-month standoff with the  International Monetary Fund 
over conditions for a bailout is making the forint the world’s
most volatile currency.  Traders increased their bets for swings against the dollar
in the next three months to 22.6 percent last week, the highest
in five months and up from 15.5 percent on May 1, based on a
gauge of implied volatility used for pricing option contracts on
Bloomberg. Their outlook reached the most bearish since January
last week, according to the so-called three-month risk reversal
rate.  The currency of the European Union’s most-indebted eastern
member has tumbled 9 percent against the dollar and 3.6 percent
versus the euro since the beginning of May. Investors fled as
delays in negotiating a $19 billion  credit line  with the IMF
left  Hungary  vulnerable to Europe’s debt crisis as 10-year bond
yields hit a seven-week high on June 1.  “We foresee the forint trading lower,” Bernd Berg, an
emerging-market strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG’s private
banking unit in Zurich, said in e-mailed comments on June 6.
“There have been several periods of hopes and setbacks about a
bailout over the last several months. As long as hopes do not
materialize in any concrete bailout package we do not see a
continued rally.”  Reject Recommendations  Six months after the IMF and EU demanded Hungary guarantee
the independence of the central bank as a condition for lending,
Orban has yet to revise laws that allow the government to
nominate an additional vice president without consulting the
bank. He also hasn’t addressed the  European Central Bank ’s
objection to cutting Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor’s salary by 75 percent in 2010.  The government will probably present amendments to the
central bank legislation and lawmakers may vote on them within
two weeks, Nepszabadsag reported, citing Antal Rogan, head of
the ruling Fidesz party’s parliamentary group. Mihaly Varga,
Hungary’s chief negotiator for the IMF loan, confirmed to the
newspaper a new set of amendments may be submitted.  Hungary’s government debt is equivalent to about 78.5
percent of gross domestic product in 2012, exceeding the Czech
Republic at 43.9 percent and  Poland  at 55 percent, as well as
Romania, Latvia and  Bulgaria , according to European Commission
estimates on  May 11 .  The forint weakened 0.3 percent to 297.27 against  Europe ’s
common currency at 5:17 p.m. in Budapest and depreciated 0.4
percent to 238.17 per dollar.  Driven by Politics  Credit Suisse’s Berg revised lower his three-month forint
forecast to between 290 and 310 per euro on May 30 from 280 to
298. “The currency is currently entirely driven by political
negotiations about a possible IMF bailout,” Berg said in a
research report. He also cut the forint’s three-month forecast
against the dollar to 242 from an estimate of 223 in March.  Hungary became the first EU nation to receive a bailout in
2008 after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. caused
global credit markets to freeze. Orban requested fresh
international assistance in November 2011 after the forint
slumped to a record low at the time of 317 per euro, prompting
the three biggest credit rating companies to cut the country to
junk.  Orban’s lawmakers approved central bank legislation at the
end of December that disregarded EU and IMF objections, sending
the forint as low as 324.24 against the euro.  ‘Vulnerability’  Hungary’s economy contracted for the first time in more
than two years in the first quarter as the  European debt crisis 
sapped demand for its exports, data from the Budapest-based
statistics office showed on June 8. Exports made up  87 percent 
of the country’s GDP in 2010, according to the latest data from
the  World Bank .  Hungary is the most at risk from the euro debt crisis in
central and eastern Europe “as its economic growth is reliant
on external demand, its fiscal situation is the weakest in the
region, its external vulnerability is high and it has not as yet
benefited from protection in the form of IMF/EU aid,” Anne- Francoise Bluher, a Prague-based economist at Societe Generale
SA’s Komercni Banka unit, and colleagues wrote in a research
report on June 7.  Bets against the forint sent the risk reversal rate versus
the dollar to the most bearish level since January at minus 7
percent on June 6, compared with minus 4 on April 30, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. A negative rate signals greater
demand for forint puts, or the right to sell, relative to calls,
or the right to buy. The risk reversal rate last traded at minus
6.2 percent.  Safety Net  The extra yield investors demand to hold Hungary’s dollar
bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 10 basis points points to
599, compared with a five-month high of 679 basis points, or
6.79 percentage points, on June 1,  indexes  compiled by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. show.  Hungary’s financing is guaranteed this year and the country
aims to have an IMF “safety net” by 2013,Varga said in an
interview on June 6. The delay on the vote for the central bank
law will allow time to resolve differences that are blocking
talks, Varga added.  “We expect the government to finalize an EU/IMF
precautionary loan in the summer, since we believe Prime
Minister Orban has little to gain from waiting too long,”
 Raffaella Tenconi , a London-based economist at Bank of America
Corp., wrote in a research report on May 30. Bank of America has
been “more constructive than most and we are happy to keep this
call,” Tenconi said in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg on June 6.  ‘Sustainably’  Hungary approved measures to keep the  budget deficit  within
the EU limit of 3 percent of GDP on May 9. The plans will
improve the budget balance “sustainably in the long term,”
Johannes Hahn, the EU commissioner for regional policy, told
Budapest-based newspaper Magyar Nemzet last week.  The cost of insuring Hungarian bonds with credit-default
swaps for five years reached a five-month high of 630 basis
points on June 5 and last traded at 574, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The contracts, which rise as perceptions of
creditworthiness worsen, surged 96 basis points in May, compared
with 71 basis points for Poland and 21 basis points for the
 Czech Republic .  Hungary’s bonds are rated one level below investment grade
at Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service and BB+ by Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings, while Poland and the Czech Republic are at
investment grade.  Last week’s strengthening in the forint was a rebound
caused by “excess volatility,” Gergely Tardos and Levente
Papa, Budapest-based analysts at OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s
largest lender, wrote in a research report on June 8.  “Unless fundamental changes happen -- i.e. a deal with the
EU and IMF -- Hungary remains vulnerable,” Tardos and Papa
wrote. “Another selling wave is just a question of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  