-- Mouchel Drops as Company Sees Value Limits: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-06-11T15:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/mouchel-drops-as-company-sees-value-limits-london-mover.html
Mouchel Group Plc (MCHL)  declined to a
record low after the U.K. road maintenance company said that
all alternatives to achieve sustainable capital financing will
result in “limited value” for investors.  Mouchel plunged 34 percent to close at 3.8 pence in  London ,
the lowest price since the company’s June 2002 initial public
offering, after falling as much as 40 percent during the
trading day. The decline pushed the stock to a 30 percent
drop this year, valuing the company at 4.34 million pounds
($6.73 million).  The “review of options to provide Mouchel with a long-term
sustainable  capital structure  is progressing, with a balance
sheet restructuring due to be announced prior to the year end on
July 31,” Woking, England-based Mouchel said today in a
statement.  Mouchel’s comment “emphasizes to investors that the
existing equity has little or no value,” Christopher Bamber, an
analyst with Peel Hunt with a sell rating on the stock, said in
a phone interview. “They have to raise fresh equity or have a
debt-to-equity swap with the banks. The business has got too
much debt. Their order book keeps shrinking.”  Cost Targets  Costs related to an operational reorganization and an
anticipated financial restructuring affect this year’s
performance, Mouchel said. The company, which is widening its
cost-reduction target to 21 million pounds from 18 million
pounds, has net debt of 104.1 million pounds.  “The environment remains challenging,” Chief Executive
Officer Grant Rumbles said in the statement. With the exception
of the  Middle East  and management consulting operations,
underlying business is performing broadly in line with
management expectations, Mouchel said.  Mouchel increased its credit lines to 180 million pounds on
Nov. 30 and was granted amendments by its lenders to stave off a
covenant breach. Mouchel described the loan as “relatively
expensive.”  The net loss for the six months ended Jan. 31 widened to
12.6 million pounds from 1.3 million pounds a year earlier,
while revenue was unchanged at 270 million pounds, the company
said on March 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  