-- Tour de France Family Control Under Assault as Race Teams Rebel
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-06-11T23:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/tour-de-france-family-control-under-assault-as-race-teams-rebel.html
It was day 16 of last year’s three-
week-long Tour de France. The RadioShack team of elite cyclists
had just completed a punishing 101-mile slog through Alpine
foothills from Saint-Paul-Trois-Chateaux to Gap.  Among cycling enthusiasts, Gap is remembered as the
dramatic scene of one of  Lance Armstrong ’s more acrobatic rides.
During the 2003 Tour, another cyclist’s rear tire skidded on the
melted tarmac in front of Armstrong, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its July issue.  To avoid a collision, the most successful U.S. Tour racer
veered off-road, careening downhill through fields before
rejoining the peloton -- and going on to win the race.  As rain fell on Gap last July, the manager who oversaw
Armstrong’s unprecedented and unmatched 1999-to-2005 winning
streak was trying to bring another messy race day to a close.
 Johan Bruyneel  had already lost four team members to crashes or
illness. He shepherded the remaining five, exhausted and wan
looking, into the RadioShack team bus for massages and some
food.  Tempers were fraying. Bruyneel bristled when a reporter
brought up a sore subject: the relatively paltry sums the teams
get from  Amaury Sport Organization , owned by a family that has
run the Tour since 1947.  The 50,000 euros ($63,000) or so his team would be getting
from ASO wouldn’t even cover expenses for hotels, meals and
gasoline, said the Belgian Bruyneel, then 46.  ‘Take a Stand’  Bruyneel said the time had come for the riders, the stars
of the show, to get a bigger chunk of ASO’s television revenue.  “You have to take a stand at some point,” he said. “It’s
normal that someone who gets the biggest part of the cake
doesn’t want to share it, but the riders and the teams are the
key players.”  As cyclists geared up for the start of this year’s Tour on
 June 30 , the rebellion that stirred in Gap last year continued
to build against ASO, which owns the Tour and the Criterium du
Dauphine and Paris-Nice events in  France  and has a 49 percent
stake in the  Vuelta a Espana ,  Spain ’s biggest bike race.  ASO is a unit of Editions Philippe Amaury, whose chairman,
a 71-year-old widow named Marie-Odile Amaury, is the little-
known grande dame of the most prestigious cycling event in the
world.  Amaury, who has run Editions since her husband, Philippe,
died of cancer at age 66 in 2006, faces assaults on her family’s
dominance of the Tour from two fronts.  Prize Money  Managers of some race teams -- including those sponsored by
 RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  and  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)  -- have become increasingly
outspoken in their pursuit of ASO’s money.  The teams want a share of the TV rights, as well as more of
a say in the management of the sport, says  Jonathan Vaughters ,
president of the teams association, which is known by its French
acronym, AIGCP.  Vaughters says cycling’s competition model should be
brought in line with team sports that spread the winnings
around, such as the  National Football League  in the U.S. and
 English soccer’s Premier League .  Under the current system, ASO hands 450,000 euros to the
winning Tour rider, who traditionally shares it equally among
his eight teammates. Riders get an additional 3 million euros or
so in prize money spread out over the Tour.  A second challenge to ASO comes from an upstart
championship format called World Series Cycling.  Rothschild & Sons  As in Formula One auto racing, the champion racer would be
determined by a points system among riders participating in the
world’s most competitive races: the  Giro d’Italia , the Tour and
the Vuelta a Espana as well as six one-day races across  Europe 
and up to 10 new ones around the world.  A 12-page pitch to investors drawn up by London-based N.M.
Rothschild & Sons Ltd. for the WSC promoter, Gifted Group Ltd.,
a London-based sports marketing company, projects an annual
profit of 1.8 million euros per squad in 2017.  Bruyneel’s RadioShack Nissan Trek team, as it is now
called, and two Spanish teams sponsored by telecommunications
companies -- one by  Movistar , the other by Euskaltel SA -- are
among eight to 10 squads interested in joining the WSC scheme,
according to  Euskaltel team  president Miguel Madariaga.  The initiatives by the team managers and WSC could in
themselves change the face of world cycling, says  Simon Chadwick , a professor of sports business strategy at Coventry
University in  England .  Booming Market  “This is potentially a real change in the balance of
power,” he says. “The teams are being driven by the
marketplace instead of history.”  For an event with a limited following, the Tour draws a
sizable audience: In 2009, 44 million TV viewers tuned in for a
single mountain stage, helping to make the Tour the  12th-most-
popular televised sports event  that year, according to
Initiative, a London-based media-buying agency.  Amid a booming market for TV sports rights, the Tour could
be worth as much as $1 billion, says  Conor O’Shea , a media
analyst in Paris at Kepler Capital Markets SA.  ASO runs the Tour and reaps revenue from broadcasters such
as France Televisions SA and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC. Pat McQuaid,
president of Aigle, Switzerland-based  Union Cycliste
Internationale , world cycling’s ruling body, says ASO’s TV deals
are worth about 30 million euros a year.  Editions Philippe Amaury Managing Director Philippe Carli
declined to give a figure. AIGCP’s Vaughters, who is also
manager of the Garmin team, is convinced that ASO’s take is
higher than 30 million euros.  ‘Big Number’  “I think it’s a lot more than that,” Vaughters says.
“I’ve heard all kinds of numbers.”  The Tour’s commercial potential has attracted suitors in
the past.  Armstrong says that in 2006, he and about a dozen of his
team’s backers discussed buying the Tour while meeting in a
private room at Spago restaurant in  Palo Alto ,  California .  He says he raised the subject again in March 2010 in
Murcia, Spain, with Arnaud Lagardere, chief executive officer of
media company  Lagardere SCA (MMB) , which owns 25 percent of Editions.
Armstrong says the talks went nowhere because of the cost of a
controlling stake in Editions, which he estimated at as much as
$1 billion.  “It would need a big number for the Amaury family to be
interested in selling,” Armstrong says.  Culottes and Sweaters  The first Tour, in 1903, was dreamed up by staffers at
L’Auto, a newspaper, to boost circulation.  Photographs from the time show competitors in  culottes and
woolen sweaters , with some carrying limp, spare inner tubes over
their shoulders as they rode.  The first winner was Maurice Garin, a former chimney sweep.
The race caught the public’s imagination, with villagers
dragging hay bales to the roadside to get a better view.  The Tour was suspended during World War II. Afterward,
Emilien Amaury, Philippe’s father, started  L’Equipe newspaper ,
which took over running the Tour.  Marie-Odile married Philippe in 1969. After he took control
of the family business in 1983, she became a director of its
only -- and now defunct -- radio station, Le Poste Parisien.  At the same time, they were raising their two children. She
joined the Editions board in 1990 and became No. 2 to her
husband.  Meanwhile, the Tour was gaining a more international
audience.  Doping Scandals  In 1986, Californian-born Greg LeMond became the first non-
European winner, garnering the commercially attractive U.S.
audience, which doubled to an average daily viewership of 1.2
million during the Armstrong years.  This year, the 22 teams scheduled to compete come from 12
countries.  Today, even after the doping scandals that besmirched the
event and stripped American Floyd Landis and Spaniard Alberto Contador of their winning titles in 2006 and 2010, the Tour is a
more valuable asset for the Amaury family than the newspaper
titles the Tour was originally designed to promote.  Marie-Odile Amaury, who drives a Peugeot 407 and favors
prim, tasteful clothing, hardly ever gives interviews, and she
declined to grant one for this article.  “I am naturally rather reserved,” she said in an
 interview with Le Point magazine  in March 2010. “I don’t
consider myself a public personality.”  ‘Not Flash’  UCI’s McQuaid, who lives in  Switzerland , says that when
Amaury meets him for lunch in Paris, it’s at an ordinary
brasserie.  “She is not flash at all,” he says.  Nor is Amaury’s business style, Carli says. ASO’s expansion
under her leadership has been mostly cautious and focused on its
historical strengths, such as the purchase of Spain’s Vuelta.  “We have a real savoir-faire to organize cycling races,”
Carli says. “We believe we have to focus on this savoir-
faire.”  That hasn’t prevented ASO from delving into other sports.
It runs the  Dakar off-road  automobile endurance race and the
 Paris marathon .  ASO is more profitable than the Amaury family’s other
interests, such as  Le Parisien  and L’Equipe newspapers and a 28
percent stake in B.E.S. SAS, the French unit of online betting
company  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc. (BPTY)   ASO had total revenue of 147 million euros in 2010. It
recorded an average annual net income of 30 million euros in the
six years through 2010, according to the unit’s financial
reports.  Family Enterprise  The Amaury family owns 75 percent of Editions, which had
sales of 671 million euros in 2011.  All signs suggest that Editions will remain a family
enterprise.  Amaury appointed her son, Jean-Etienne, 35, chairman of ASO
in 2008. He has an MBA from Stanford Graduate School of Business
and began his career developing new media at the London office
of Bloomberg News for five years through 2004.  His sister, Aurore, a lawyer who turns 38 on July 8, is
also on ASO’s board.  As steeped in Tour history as she is, Marie-Odile Amaury is
moving with the times.  In March, wearing a tweed coat and reading glasses, she
appeared before a panel of  French TV regulators  and invoked her
family’s rich sporting heritage before getting approval, a few
weeks later, to set up a digital channel for the L’Equipe brand.  Crown Jewel  As cycling’s landscape evolves under pressure from
challengers such as WSC and as the teams that will whiz across
TV screens this summer eye a new business model, Amaury may have
to move again to protect her assets.  Whatever she does, if it involves the Tour, it will be done
with her two children in mind and with a firm grip on cycling’s
 crown jewel , Carli says.  “If you discuss the Tour with the children, you can see
their eyes shining,” he says. “It’s a legacy.”  Vaughters, 39, says the teams aren’t trying to stage a coup
against the Amaury family. He says it’s important to work with
ASO as well as McQuaid’s UCI to update the economics of
competitive cycling.  “We need to convince them to see the advantages of
reforming the system and the sport,” he says.  Vaughters says he tried to broach the subject of sharing TV
revenue with Amaury at a cycling dinner last year. He says she
referred him to her executives -- politely.  Getting what he wants could be as tricky as Armstrong’s
wild descent into Gap all those years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  