-- Padilla Loses U.S. Supreme Court Bid to Sue Rumsfeld
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2012-06-11T17:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/padilla-loses-u-s-supreme-court-bid-to-sue-rumsfeld.html
The U.S. Supreme Court refused to
let convicted terrorism conspirator Jose Padilla sue former
Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld  and other officials over
torture he said he suffered while in military custody.  The court, without comment, rejected an appeal by Padilla,
a U.S. citizen arrested in 2002 and held by the military without
charges for more than three years as an “enemy combatant.” He
was transferred to civilian custody and convicted in 2007 of
conspiring to kill people abroad for Islamic fundamentalist
groups and providing aid to al-Qaeda.  Today’s action has no effect on Padilla’s conviction. He is
serving a 17-year, four-month prison sentence, though an appeals
court in Atlanta ruled in September that the term was too short
and that he must be resentenced.  A federal appeals court in Richmond,  Virginia , ruled in
January that Padilla can’t sue Rumsfeld, former deputy Defense
Secretary  Paul Wolfowitz  and four other former officials who
either approved his treatment or commanded the Navy brig in
 South Carolina  where he was held.  The case “would draw courts into the heart of executive
and military planning and deliberation,” the appeals court
said. The Constitution gives Congress and the executive branch
control over national security and military affairs, the court
said.  In the appeal rejected today, Padilla said he was shackled
for hours in “excruciating stress positions,” injected with
what he was told were truth serums and subjected to deliberate
banging noises, noxious odors and extreme temperature variations
to keep him from sleeping.  Symbolic Damages  Interrogators threatened to kill him or send him to a
foreign country where he would receive worse treatment, his
lawsuit contended. Padilla sought a declaration that his rights
had been violated and $1 in symbolic damages from each of the
six defendants.  “It is precisely the role of the judiciary to ensure that
allegations of grave misconduct by executive branch officials
receive fair adjudication,” Padilla’s appeal said. That role
doesn’t disappear when officials contend “their actions are too
sensitive for judicial review,” it said.  The denial of review “leaves in place a blank check for
government officials to commit any abuse in the name of national
security, even the brutal torture of an American citizen in an
American prison,” Padilla’s lawyer, Ben Wizner of the  American
Civil Liberties Union , said today in an e-mailed statement. “To
date, not a single victim of the Bush administration’s torture
regime has received his day in court.”  ‘Settled Law’  Lawyers for Rumsfeld, Wolfowitz and the other former
officials said in court papers that “settled law clearly
shields military officials from personal liability for their
execution of the president’s and Congress’s war powers.” In
addition, the former officials said they had “nothing to do”
with any alleged acts of torture.  Padilla was described by a prosecutor during his criminal
trial as the “star recruit” of a terrorism support cell.  Arrested after arriving in  Chicago  on a flight from
 Pakistan , Padilla initially was suspected of plotting to explode
a radioactive “dirty bomb,” although he was never charged with
that.  Jurors at his criminal trial concluded that he raised money
for extremists and trained at an Osama bin Laden terrorist camp
in  Afghanistan . During his trial in Miami, his defense was that
he went to learn to defend Muslims in  Kosovo .  A San Francisco-based federal appeals court ruled last
month that Padilla couldn’t sue former Justice Department
attorney John Yoo for writing a memo that authorized harsh
interrogation techniques after the Sept. 11 attacks.  The case is Lebron v. Rumsfeld, 11-1277.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  