-- Pena Nieto Promises to Spread Prosperity in Mexico Debate
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-06-11T12:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/pena-nieto-promises-to-spread-prosperity-in-mexico-debate.html
Mexican presidential front-runner
Enrique Pena Nieto promised to spread economic prosperity and
defended himself from attacks over corruption in a televised
debate hours after more than 90,000 people rallied against him
in the capital.  “I want to return peace and liberty to the Mexican
people,” Pena Nieto, 45, said in the second and last
officially-sanctioned debate ahead of July 1 elections. “I want
to bring about a more inclusive  Mexico  without poverty.”  Pena Nieto is trying to defuse a student-led campaign
against his candidacy that has threatened his more than 10
percentage point lead in recent weeks. Protesters have used
social media such as Facebook and Twitter to warn that
corruption that blossomed under 71 years of one-party rule that
ended in 2000 could deepen if Pena Nieto’s  Institutional
Revolutionary Party  returns to power.  Pena Nieto’s lead has declined since 45,000 students on May
19 marched on Mexico City’s historic downtown. Yesterday’s
gathering in the capital drew at least 90,000, according to
local police. Benefiting the most from the anti-PRI marches has
been  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who opposes Pena Nieto’s plans
to ease the state oil monopoly of  Petroleos Mexicanos  and who
narrowly lost to outgoing President  Felipe Calderon  in 2006.  Pena Nieto had 37.6 percent support compared with 23.7
percent for  Lopez Obrador  in a poll of 1,152 registered voters
taken June 8 to June 10 by Grupo Economista Asociados-ISA.
Josefina Vazquez Mota of the ruling  National Action Party  had
20.5 percent support. The poll had a margin of error of plus or
minus 3 percentage points.  Attacking Pena Nieto  In last night’s debate held in Guadalajara, Lopez Obrador
reached out to the students, highlighting his plan to boost
youth employment. He promised to boost the economy by emulating
Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal of the 1930’s in U.S.  Vazquez Mota attacked both men, criticizing Lopez Obrador
for promoting radical policies and holding up a photo of Pena
Nieto with a former PRI governor accused by the U.S. of taking
millions of dollars in bribes from a drug cartel.  Lopez Obrador’s avoidance of confrontation last night may
have been an attempt to assuage critics who remember him best
for blockading one of Mexico City’s busiest boulevards for weeks
to protests his defeat six years ago.  “He’s trying to shrug off a reputation for violence that
his critics have pinned on him,” said Roy Campos, who heads
Mexico City polling company Consulta Mitofsky.  Many Mexicans have turned against Vazquez Mota’s ruling
party after Calderon declared war on the drug gangs, costing
more than 47,000 lives in the past five years.  Student protesters are organizing a third debate to be
transmitted via YouTube on June 19. All the contenders have
agreed to participate except for Pena Nieto, who said there’s no
guarantee the forum will be impartial. The students from both
public and private universities have said they are unaffiliated
with a political party even though they oppose Pena Nieto and 
what they allege is favorable media coverage of his candidacy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  