-- Pink Slime No Brake to Beef Rally as U.S. Herd Contracts
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-12T19:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/pink-slime-no-brake-to-beef-rally-as-herd-contracts-commodities.html
The U.S. cattle herd has shrunk to
the smallest since three years before Ray Kroc opened his first
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  hamburger stand, reducing supply and raising
prices even as domestic demand sinks to a two-decade low.  Beef output in the U.S., the biggest producer, will drop
for a third year in 2013 after drought destroyed pastures,
forcing farmers to cull herds to the smallest since 1952,
government data show. Cattle futures traded in Chicago may rise
to a record $1.33 a pound by year-end, according to  Ron Plain , a
livestock economist at the University of  Missouri  at Columbia
who has advised the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Rising prices are shoring up income for farmers contending
with consumer concern over a type of treated meat dubbed “pink
slime” and a case of mad cow disease in April. While U.S. beef
consumption is contracting for a sixth year, exports last year
were the highest ever. Global retail-meat costs gained 4.8
percent since February 2011 even as an overall food gauge
tumbled 14 percent from a record, United Nations data show.  “The U.S. beef-cattle herd is at its lowest level in 50 or
60 years at the same time that global consumption of increased
protein content and quality foods is rising,” said  Steve Shafer , the chief investment officer at Covenant Global
Investors, an Oklahoma City-based hedge fund that manages $320
million of assets. “Over the next three to five years, the
supply-and-demand dynamics are tighter supplies with growing
demand, which equals higher prices.”  Smaller Herd  Cattle futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange rose 16
percent in the past year, second only to feeder cattle among 24
commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot gauge,
which slumped 17 percent. Feeder cattle are animals being
fattened prior to slaughter. The MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of
equities slid 9 percent in the past 12 months. Treasuries have
returned 8.5 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Record beef prices predicted for this year by the Livestock
Marketing Information Center, a 57-year-old research group based
in Denver, may mean higher costs for retailers and restaurants.  Beef and dairy farmers held 90.77 million head of cattle on
Jan. 1, 2.1 percent less than a year earlier, the USDA
estimates. That was the lowest since 1952, three years before
Kroc opened his first  McDonald’s restaurant  in Des Plaines,
 Illinois , according to the company’s website. Today, there are
about 35,000 restaurants in 119 countries.  Calf Production  Smaller breeding herds mean that calf production in the
U.S. has declined for 16 straight years to the lowest since
1950, the  University of Missouri ’s Plain said. That could mean
the highest prices ever, said Plain, who has studied the
industry for three decades.  Plain’s forecast of $1.33 is for February futures on the
CME. The previous all-time high for a most-active contract is
$1.315, reached on Feb. 22. Cattle for August delivery,
currently the most-active contract, settled unchanged today at
$1.203 at 1 p.m. in Chicago.  Beef output will fall 2 percent to 24.671 billion pounds
(11.19 million metric tons) next year, the USDA said in a  report 
released today. That would be the lowest since 1993, government
data show.  Shrinking supply may not be enough to keep prices rising
because the outlook for demand is “pretty ominous,” said David Kruse, the president of CommStock Investments Inc., a broker in
Royal,  Iowa , who has studied the markets since the 1970s.
Slowing growth from Europe to  China  and concern that the  U.S.
economy  may falter will hurt the cattle market, he said.  Chinese Expansion  JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York lowered its forecast for
third-quarter economic growth in the U.S. to 2 percent from 3
percent after the government said June 1 that employers in May
added the fewest workers in a year. Expansion in China will slow
to 7.9 percent in the second quarter from 8.1 percent in the
first quarter, according to the median of 21 economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. beef consumption is forecast by the USDA at 11.359
million tons, the lowest since 1993, partly as people eat more
pork. Wholesale-beef  prices  reached an eight-month low in April.
Consumers curbed purchases and some retailers stopped selling
products containing lean, finely textured beef dubbed “pink
slime” by food activists because it was made from beef
trimmings and treated with ammonia hydroxide to kill pathogens.  Cattle futures plunged by the exchange limit on April 24,
when the U.S. reported its first case of mad cow disease since
2006. Prices have since rebounded 7.8 percent on signs that the
case was isolated and importers didn’t halt purchases like they
did in 2003, when the first case of bovine spongiform
encephalopathy, or BSE, was found in a Washington state cow. The
following year, U.S. beef exports plummeted 82 percent.  Livestock Markets  Last year was the first time that U.S. beef exports
exceeded those of 2003, and the most recent case of BSE was a
“non-issue” for the market, said Chris Hurt, an agricultural
economist at  Purdue University  in  West Lafayette ,  Indiana , who
has been studying the livestock markets for about 40 years.  The U.S. had three  cases  of mad cow since 2003, Canada 17
and the U.K. 817, according to the World Organisation for  Animal
Health . There have been about 187,666 cases reported worldwide
since 1989, with 97 percent of those originating in the U.K.,
the Paris-based group’s data show.  Tight U.S. supplies will constrain beef shipments next
year, the USDA said in a report May 10. Exports may drop 0.9
percent to 2.65 billion pounds next year, from an estimated
2.675 billion in 2012, USDA data show.  Ranch Profit  Cattle futures last year averaged $1.1575, a record. The
contract started on the CME in 1964. The U.S. had 734,000 beef-
cow operations in 2011, according to a February USDA  report , and
there were 30.8 million beef cows in the  herd  that year as of
Jan. 1, for about 42 head per farm. The average beef-cattle
business had estimated net-cash income of $27,100 in 2011, the
highest since 2007, USDA  data  show. Income is forecast at
$21,400 this year.  The wholesale-beef market survived BSE and pink slime
“without serious price damage,” the USDA said in a  report  May
16. Beef Products Inc., the Dakota Dunes, South Dakota-based
maker of the ammonia-treated meat, cut more than 700 jobs and
closed three of its four plants. While the USDA has said the
meat is safe, fast-food chains including McDonald’s have stopped
using it.  Shrinking cattle herds already are boosting costs for
consumers. Ground beef in the U.S. averaged $3.016 a pound in
March, the highest since at least 1984, and boneless sirloin
steak prices are up 5.8 percent this year, according to Bureau
of Labor Statistics data. Retail-beef prices reached an all-time
high in March, USDA data show.  Beef Inflation  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest U.S. warehouse-club
chain, is facing rising beef prices this year, unlike most other
food items, Richard Galanti, the chief financial officer of the
Issaquah, Washington-based retailer, said on a conference call
with analysts May 24.  Raw-material costs may climb 4 percent to 5 percent this
year for  Wendy’s Co. (WEN) , CFO Stephen Hare said on a conference call
May 8. The Dublin, Ohio-based restaurant chain expects beef
prices will be “back up” in the fourth quarter, he said. Beef
accounts for about 20 percent of the company’s commodity costs.  Other restaurants from  Jack in the Box Inc.  to  Chipotle
Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  to  Texas  Roadhouse Inc. told investors in the
past several months they expect beef prices to keep climbing.  Texas Drought  Cattle producers are still recovering from last year’s
drought in the Great Plains, which destroyed pastures and caused
$7.62 billion in farm losses in Texas, the biggest U.S. cattle
producer, state data show.  Profit is rising for those ranchers who have cattle left to
sell to feedlots, and returns over cash costs may reach an all-
time high of $230 per cow in 2012, according to estimates from
the Livestock Marketing Information Center.  “We’re enjoying these record prices,” said Richard
Thorpe, 54, who runs a cow-calf business in Winters, Texas, and
reduced his herd by 70 percent last year because of drought.
“We just need Mother Nature to cooperate so that we can get out
of this rough time period and get back in the business of
raising cattle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in  Chicago  at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  