-- Polish Rate Increase in July Is Very Likely, Glapinski Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-06-11T09:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/polish-rate-increase-next-month-is-very-likely-glapinski-says.html
Poland ’s central bank is “very
likely” to raise borrowing costs next month as the economy is
weathering  Europe ’s debt crisis while a weaker zloty stokes
inflation, monetary-policy maker  Adam Glapinski  said.  The Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw on May 9 increased its
 benchmark rate  by a quarter-point to 4.75 percent to curb
inflation, which has remained above the its 2.5 percent target
for almost two years.  Poland’s economy is set to grow at the European Union’s
fastest pace this year according to the European Commission,
which helped convince central bankers to support the first rate
increase in the 27-nation bloc this year as the euro area
struggles with a fiscal crisis that has pushed at least eight to
of its 17 members to recession.  “The factors that caused the rate hike in May persist
today, so an increase in July seems very likely to me,”
Glapinski said in an interview in Warsaw on June 9. “Inflation
is high, inflationary risks persist, the economic slowdown is
mild. Our message for markets is clear-cut.”  The zloty lost 4.9 percent against the euro in May, the
worst slide in eight months and the second-steepest decline
among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the Russian ruble.  Zloty, Bonds  The zloty traded at 4.2840 at 10:41 a.m. in Warsaw,
strengthening 0.3 percent from late Friday. The yield on the
government’s two-year bond rose to 4.81 percent from 4.78
percent.  Polish inflation, the second-highest in the European Union
after  Hungary , was 4 percent in April and probably slowed to 3.8
percent in May, according to the median estimate of 19
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The pace of price
increases will probably accelerate again in the second half of
the year, according to  Bank PKO SA. (PKO)   Inflation is “stubbornly high” and prospects for its
return to the target haven’t improved, Glapinski said, listing
the zloty’s weakness against the euro and regulated prices among
new factors that will keep inflation higher than the central
bank can tolerate.  Risk Aversion  “Only retreating commodities prices help the inflation
outlook, but one swallow doesn’t make a summer,” Glapinski
said. “Lower commodities prices don’t include food prices.
Energy prices are declining, while the zloty is already weaker
than a year ago. Global uncertainty is boosting  risk aversion 
and that may keep weakening the zloty even further.”  Poland’s economy  expanded  4.3 percent last year and 3.5
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, showing
resilience to the stuttering euro region, which buys 55 percent
of its exports. Gross domestic product is set to grow 2.7
percent this year, according to the commission.  The central bank left its benchmark rate unchanged last
week at its highest since January 2009 and said it may tighten
policy further if inflation fails to slow and the economy avoids
a sharp slowdown. “I don’t read any announcement of a rate
increase” in the latest statement, Governor  Marek Belka  told
reporters in June 6, noting the contrast with the central bank’s
quarter-point rate increase in May that “was signaled, even
though some of you didn’t believe us.”  ‘Mindlessly Follow’  The  European Central Bank  also left  interest rates  on hold
last week, keeping its benchmark at a record low of 1 percent
after two cuts in the second half of 2011.  “Polish monetary policy makers can’t mindlessly follow
the ECB,” Glapinski said. Twenty-two of 31 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg forecast rates being held in May even after the
central bank “clearly communicated” the move in its statement
a month earlier, according to Glapinski.  Glapinski said that he has “a feeling markets are still
ignoring the bank’s arguments.” Unless economic growth in
Poland suffers a plunge, “a rate cut this year is ruled out,”
he said.  “Our monetary policy is based on a direct inflation target
and we’re not going to give up this rule,” Glapinski said.
“If markets finally catch on, they’ll realize our determination
to control prices isn’t an obsession, it’s logic.”  Glapinski, who has called for increasing the benchmark rate
since the start of the year, voted for a rate increase in April.
The motion failed to win majority as it won support from only
two other members of the council,  Zyta Gilowska  and Andrzej Kazmierczak. The voting tally from the May rate meeting has yet
to be published.  A rate increase may be the “best way” to sustain lending
by Polish commercial banks as the resulting spur to deposits
would offset possible capital outflows to euro-area parent banks
hit by the debt crisis, Kazmierczak was quoted today as saying
by PAP newswire.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  