-- Prime Capital Plans to Raise $750 Million for Renewable Energy
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-11T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/prime-capital-plans-to-raise-750-million-for-renewable-energy.html
Prime Capital AG plans to raise 600
million euros ($750 million) from pension funds and insurance
companies to invest in European  renewable energy  projects.  It may use the money to fund as much as 400 megawatts of
plants already operating or ready to connect to the grid, the
Frankfurt-based  asset management company  said today in an e-
mailed statement. The money will be invested through Prime
Renewables GmbH, a unit created for the venture.  European countries are seeking to boost wind and solar
power to increase energy self-sufficiency and curb emissions
while wrangling over financing as economies stagnate and debt
mounts. The U.K. is looking for ways to bring pension and
insurance money into the industry, while Danish and Dutch
retirement funds have taken stakes in offshore wind projects.  “Prime Renewables answers one of the main corporate and
energy policy questions,” Prime Capital Chief Executive Officer
Wolfgang Stolz said. “Namely how to ally institutional capital
to future-oriented clean and secure energy generation.”  Prime Renewables will offer investors stable returns for 25
years through its financial instruments, “while minimizing
risks associated with investing in renewable energy-generation
infrastructure,” the company said in the statement.  Wheb Group, a London-based investment manager, will advise
Prime on the purchase and management of assets such as onshore
wind and solar power. Prime, which also provides financial
services, said the venture may invest in transmission networks
and energy storage projects “at a later stage.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  