-- Prosecutor Seeks Indictment for Telecom Italia in SIM Fraud Case
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-06-11T15:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/prosecutor-seeks-indictment-for-telecom-italia-in-sim-fraud-case.html
A Milan prosecutor filed a request
to indict  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  and three former executives in
connection with SIM-card fraud at the domestic mobile phone
unit, according to a court document.  The prosecutor will seek to charge Telecom Italia because
it failed to prevent the alleged crime and it benefited from it,
according to the indictment request. The prosecutor is also
seeking to indict former Chief Executive Officer Riccardo Ruggiero and ex-managers Luca Luciani and Massimo Castelli with
obstruction of regulatory activity, the document showed. This
crime carries a maximum jail sentence of eight years.  Milan Prosecutor Alfredo Robledo is trying to prove that
the executives allegedly inflated Italian wireless client
numbers to boost the company’s market share. The prosecutor
alleges Telecom Italia’s executives unlawfully renewed more than
5 million pre-paid SIM cards close to their expiration date by
recharging 1 euro cent each, according to the documents. The
allegedly inflated market share was then communicated to  Italy ’s
communications regulator, prompting the offense. The probe is
reviewing the period between 2006 and 2008.  A judge will set a preliminary hearing to review the
request.  Luciani and Castelli held positions at Telecom Italia in
the period under investigation, including head of marketing and
sales and director of operations at the domestic mobile
business, respectively. The preliminary investigation was
completed in April, prompting Luciani to step down as head of
Telecom Italia’s Brazilian unit on May 5.  “The recent conclusion of complex and lengthy
investigations regarding past management of Telecom Italia
Mobile in Italy has generated growing noise, which did not
benefit either Luca’s image as a manager or our company, so we
decided to part with Luca,” Chairman Franco Bernabe said in a
May 10 conference call.  Lawyers for the three men weren’t immediately available for
comment. A Telecom Italia spokesman wasn’t immediately reachable
for comment.  Telecom Italia fell as much as 4.5 percent to 69.85 euro
cents and traded down
4.2 percent as of 5:13 p.m. in Milan, giving it a market value
of 12.8 billion euros ($16 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  