-- Protest Pervades German Art Show Where Monsters Lurk
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-06-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/protest-pervades-german-art-show-where-monsters-lurk.html
Axolotls are odd creatures. An
endangered Mexican species, they look like giant tadpoles in a
late stage of metamorphosis. Thankfully they don’t grow into
monster frogs, hopping like slippery kangaroos through swamps.  Admiring their prehistoric weirdness in an aquarium in
Kassel’s natural history museum, it’s easy to forget this is an
art exhibition. It’s the 13th edition of  Documenta , a show with
a reputation for discovering talent that transforms Kassel, an
unassuming city in the middle of  Germany , into a mecca for
colorful art pilgrims every five years.  This year’s edition unites many disciplines. There are
4,000-year-old figurines of princesses from central  Asia ,
experiments in quantum physics and a library of tree bark.  Like the last one in 2007, the show is sprawling, and the
themes as laid out by the curators are so broad as to be almost
meaningless. Unlike the last Documenta, it captures the spirit
of our times. The mood is one of quiet protest; an unsettling
sense that something has gone very wrong with the world, and no
one is quite sure who’s to blame.  It starts with a cool breeze in an empty space. At the
Fridericianum -- one of  Europe ’s oldest public museums and the
main Documenta venue -- Ryan Gander’s “I Need Some Meaning I
Can Memorize” blows a gust of wind through almost the entire
ground floor. It’s enough to make you shiver and pull your
jacket more tightly around you on a drizzly day.  Wynette Mantra  Ceal Floyer’s sound installation “’Til I Get It Right” is
created from the Tammy Wynette song of the same title. It
repeats the first line: “I’ll just keep on” and the last
“’Til I Get It Right,” as a mantra with the rest of the song
omitted; a comment, it seems, on the artistic process.  Upstairs, things get more political, without shouting or
haranguing the visitor. Dark tapestries by Hannah Ryggen (1894-
1970), woven in the 1930s, depict Mussolini’s invasion of
 Ethiopia  and the rise of fascism in Germany. The blend of sharp
political criticism and a traditionally feminine, domestic craft
makes a powerful statement.  Perhaps it is Korbinian Aigner’s work that best captures
the mood of the exhibition. Aigner (1885-1966), a Bavarian
village priest, was imprisoned in Dachau concentration camp for
criticizing the Nazis. While there he developed four new apple
varieties, of which one is still grown today and a sample is on
display in the Karlsaue park in Kassel.  There are also 372 of his meticulous drawings of different
sorts of apples. It is his life-affirming love of nature’s
variety in one of mankind’s darkest eras that is touching. These
drawings are a flashback to the original spirit of Documenta,
which started in 1955 to showcase art forbidden under the Nazis.  Smog Petition  Amy Balkin of  San Francisco , described as “a conceptual
activist,” has written to 186 member countries of Unesco
seeking a state to sponsor her project “Public Smog,” which
campaigns to add the world’s atmosphere to the World Heritage
List. The letters are all here, along with a postcard petition.  The axolotls are lurking in a tank in the Ottoneum, as part
of an installation about Lake Chalco in Mexico City by Maria
Thereza Alves. An indigenous community farmed the island on
which it lies, until a Spanish entrepreneur purchased it in 1890
and desiccated the lake, ruining the agriculture.  Alves’s installation is a protest against the lake drainage
and colonization in general. Consisting of photographs, text and
a model of the lake as well as the axolotls, it highlights the
efforts of local people to win back their land for farming.  At the Neue Galerie, Susan Hiller offers a collection of
100 protest songs, from  John Lennon ’s “Working Class Hero” to
the Sex Pistols’ version of “God Save the Queen.”  A spectacular collection of hundreds of shadow puppets cut
from Life Magazine between 1935-1985 create a collage the length
of an entire hall. “Leaves of Grass” is like a long, many-
masted ship, encapsulating the 20th century.  Documenta is scattered around 10 main sites in Kassel and
would take a week to see properly. The exhibition runs through
Sept. 16, so there’s still time.  For more information, go to  http://d13.documenta.de/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include: Richard Vines on food,  James
Russell  on architecture,  Zinta Lundborg  interview.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Kassel, Germany, at   chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 