-- Puerto Rico Borrowing Costs Rise on Rating Concern: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-06-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/puerto-rico-borrowing-costs-rise-on-rating-concern-muni-credit.html
Investors who snapped up four times
as much  Puerto Rico  debt this year as in 2011 are imposing
higher borrowing costs on the  U.S. commonwealth  even as its debt
outperforms all but one state.  The Puerto Rico Public Buildings Authority last week sold
lease-backed bonds the day after  Standard & Poor’s  said it may
cut the island’s general-obligation rating, now two steps above
junk. The agency sold 30-year tax-exempts rated BBB, the same as
the commonwealth’s, to yield 5.38 percent. The spread above AAA
was 2.17 percentage points, rising from 2.1 points in August and
1.5 points in a 2009 issue, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Puerto Rico bonds appeal to investors in part because they
are tax-free in all states. The island and its agencies have
sold about $6.5 billion of securities this year, four times the
pace of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Puerto Rico’s $58
billion of gross tax-supported debt exceeds the load of 48
states, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  “People are getting just up to their ears in Puerto Rico
debt,” said Tom Spalding, who helps manage $10 billion of
municipals in  Chicago  at Nuveen Investments Inc. The bigger
yield penalty on the authority, whose debt Nuveen holds, “had
to do with the change in outlook” on the commonwealth, he said.  Negative View  S&P cited the commonwealth’s “challenging” economic and
fiscal environment in changing its outlook to negative from
stable. The rating, lower than any U.S. state’s, may be cut if
the economy deteriorates, a projected deficit swells or
“decisive” action on pensions is delayed past next fiscal
year, S&P said.  The commonwealth’s  14.8 percent  jobless rate in April was
above that of all 50 states. As of June 30, 2011, it had 6.8
percent of assets to cover promised retirement benefits, the
worst-funded system in the U.S., data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Illinois’s ratio of 45 percent is the weakest among
states.  Belle Haven Investments Inc. has reduced Puerto Rico debt
to less than one percent of its $1.1 billion of munis in the
past year, said Matt Dalton, a portfolio manager at the firm.  For the company to add more, there would need to be “some
kind of improvement for the revenues for the island versus the
expenses, and it looks like it’s going to take some time before
that starts to move in the right direction,” Dalton said from
 White Plains , New York.  Revenue Quest  The commonwealth’s finances are hampered in part by an
underground economy that may be as large as 30 percent of
activity on the island, curtailing tax collections, according to
a Wells Fargo Securities LLC report last month.  With municipal  interest rates  hovering close to four-decade
 lows , the extra yield on the island’s debt has been a draw. Its
bonds have earned 12.8 percent in the past 12 months, trailing
only  Wyoming ’s 13.9 percent gain, Barclays data show. The $3.7
trillion municipal market has earned 9.6 percent.  The bigger yield spread helped demand for last week’s sale.
The $589 million offer received $1.7 billion of bids, said  Jose Otero , vice president of financing for the Government
Development Bank for Puerto Rico, the commonwealth’s borrowing
agent.  The bank lowered the yield during the sale for the portion
due in 2042 to 5.375 percent from 5.5 percent, Otero said. That
segment totaled about $548 million.  Competing Issuers  The yield penalty also grew in part because Puerto Rico was
competing with other issuers, Otero said. States and localities
sold about $9.5 billion of long-term munis last week, the year’s
third-busiest period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “All things considered, we’re extremely happy with the
transaction and the fact that we were able to not only do the
deal, but reprice the term bonds down,” Otero said.  Among U.S. states, only  California  and New York had more
gross tax-supported debt last year, with $103 billion and $63
billion, respectively, Moody’s data show.  Puerto Rico’s debt burden has grown partly because it has
borrowed to help balance budgets since at least 2006. In
addition to its general obligations, it has about $15 billion of
sales-tax bonds as of March 31, some of which went to fill
spending gaps.  Following are pending sales:  THE BLACK BELT ENERGY GAS DISRICT, ALABAMA, which supplies
natural gas to the Clarke-Mobile Counties Gas District, is set
to borrow $773.8 million of revenue bonds as soon as this week.
Proceeds will prepay natural-gas deliveries for 30 years,
according to bond documents. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is the
underwriter. Moody’s Investors Service rates the sale A1, fifth-
highest. (Added June 11)  SAN DIEGO plans to sell about $103 million of tax- and
revenue-anticipation notes as soon as this month, according to
bond documents. The debt will mature in one year. Moody’s
Investors Service gives the notes its highest short-term rating.
(Updated June 11)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  