-- Pulling Plug on Greece Sells in German Town Opposing Merkel Plan
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2012-06-11T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/pulling-plug-on-greece-sells-in-german-town-opposing-merkel-plan.html
In the German town of  Hassloch ,
sandwiched between vineyards and farms growing lettuce and
asparagus, people have had enough of the debt crisis.  “We can’t go on funding the Greeks, they’re beyond help,”
Angelika Hoerner, 50, said as she served customers from behind a
glass counter of her family’s butcher shop in the town of 21,000
in western Rhineland-Palatinate state. “It’s better to have an
end with horror than horror without an end.”  While nationwide polls show Germans are swinging against
helping their poorer southern euro partner, opinions in Hassloch
underscore a warning for  Chancellor Angela Merkel  as Greeks
prepare for a second shot at electing a government on June 17.  The town has been used since 1985 by market-research
company  GfK SE  as a miniature Germany to test products ranging
from  Unilever NV (UNA) ’s Dove soap to Ferrero Spa  Rondnoir  chocolates
before they are rolled out across the country. About 3,400
households have a GfK card that residents show at stores to
register their purchases.  “Nothing that succeeds in Hassloch has flopped in the rest
of Germany,” Bettina Bartholomeyzik, 52, GfK’s Hassloch
manager, said in an interview. “It’s an ideal test site because
most Germans don’t live in big cities.”  Political Mood  The demographics of Hassloch, a town of well-kept single-
family homes where people leave bicycles unlocked, are in
 Germany  what Peoria,  Illinois , is for U.S. politicians and
marketing executives who ask whether their policies, products
and movies will “play in Peoria?”  The mood in Hassloch also matters because it’s in an
election district that voted for the winning chancellor’s party
in six of the past eight German elections, including the backing
of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  in 2005 and 2009. Germany
holds elections next year.  The “nein” to giving more aid to  Greece  comes as Merkel
finds herself increasingly isolated in  Europe  over her demands
for austerity and her rejection of euro-region bonds. As Greece
teeters on the verge of insolvency and Spain and Italy move to
the frontline of the crisis, Merkel hasn’t ruled out a limited
euro-region debt sharing under a European redemption fund.  On June 9,  Spain  became the fourth euro member to seek a
bailout since the start of the debt crisis more than two years
ago with a request for as much as 100 billion euros ($125
billion) to rescue its banks.  Greek Exit  National polls show increasing German opposition to keeping
Greece in the euro. Sixty percent of Germans want Greece to exit
the single currency, up from 49 percent in November, a ZDF
television survey on May 25 showed. The poll showed 79 percent
opposed to euro bonds that would reduce Greek borrowing costs.
Merkel said June 2 that she would “under no circumstances”
agree to Germany-backed euro bonds.  Hassloch Mayor Hans-Ulrich Ihlenfeld said his constituents
“just won’t accept” giving more money to Greece.  Germany is the biggest contributor to the euro-region
bailouts and its guarantee commitments to the European Financial
Stability Facility amount to about 211 billion euros, or 27
percent of the total.  “It would be better if Greece left the euro,” Ihlenfeld,
49, a member of Merkel’s CDU party, said in an interview in the
town hall across from an 18th-century  church  topped with a
golden weathervane. “Their structures are too dilapidated and
their public administration is too corrupt.”  War Weary  Residents, including Hoerner in the butcher shop, are angry
about how Germany is depicted as still having to pay for the
Nazis' actions in World War II, while others are concerned about
what happens to the money once it arrives in  Athens .  “These terrible things happened 70 years ago,” she said.
“At some point, it’s over and you can’t keep holding the next
generations responsible.”  Of 20 people interviewed in Hassloch from May 30 to June 1
only one said European Union solidarity meant it was worth
fighting to keep Greece in the euro.  Most people believe the euro would survive beyond the
departure of Greece, whose economy is shrinking for a fifth
straight year and accounts for less than 2.5 percent of the 17-
nation currency group’s gross domestic product. Spain and Italy
make up a combined 29 percent of the region’s output, according
to data from the European Commission.  Helping Spain  “Greece’s economy is only a tiny part of the euro area,”
Cristina Amarghioalie, 28, an employee at the “Sun for Fun”
tanning center in Hassloch, said in an interview. “I don’t
think Greece leaving would destroy the euro. Greece has been
helped enough. Spain and  Italy  are more important.”  Lars Engisch, an 18-year-old 11th grade student, agreed.  “The euro won’t break up if Greece leaves,” he said as he
delivered newspapers. “We don’t even know what happens to money
that already goes to Greece.”  Bernd Ruckdeschel, 74, a retired BASF SE employee who now
heads Hassloch’s local  museum , said Greek “corruption and non-
payment of taxes” has caused the crisis. “Germany shouldn’t do
anything more for Greece. Merkel is doing the right thing.”  Greece won a second bailout this year from the EU and
International Monetary Fund taking the total rescue package to
240 billion euros since 2010. Political parties in Greece are
now split between sticking to terms of the loans by reducing
spending, or reneging on the agreement while keeping the euro.  Austerity Debate  Some in Hassloch have sympathy with that argument. Katrin
Wagner, 30, public relations head of the town’s  Holiday Park
Plopsa , which attracts more than 500,000 visitors a year to
rides such as the “Expedition GeForce” roller-coaster, said
that while she’s opposed to euro bonds she worries that too much
emphasis on austerity will harm the economy.  “We shouldn’t let the euro break up,” she said as riders
shrieked in the background. “If Greece goes, where does it
stop? Spain and  Portugal  are at the tipping point.”  Ihlenfeld, Hassloch’s mayor, said getting Greece out of the
euro might give Merkel leeway to offer more German assistance to
other struggling euro bloc members.  There would be “more understanding for helping Spain and
Portugal if Greece left,” he said.  Hassloch, surrounded by fields with cackling pheasants and
a pine and oak forest with cuckoos, built its economy on farming
and many houses have a small barn in the backyard.  As many as 3,000 people commute from Hassloch to jobs,
mainly at  BASF (BAS) , the world’s biggest chemical company, in
Ludwigshafen almost 16 miles (25 kilometers) away, Ihlenfeld
said. The town’s jobless rate stands at about 6 percent, below
the  national average  of 6.7 percent, the lowest in two decades.  Germany’s Mirror  Civic duty is taken seriously in Hassloch where residents
sweep the streets in front of their homes, using sharp-pronged
hoes to remove moss and weeds from between the sidewalk cracks.
The public toilet in the town center was immaculately clean with
glistening steel fittings.  “Hassloch reflects Germany because it’s rural yet close
enough to big cities to combine an urban lifestyle,” Julia
Peschl, 28, a research consultant at GfK headquarters in
Nuremberg, said by telephone. “The per capita purchasing power
of its residents is almost exactly the German average.”  Residents are worried about  inflation  and the value of the
euro, which has fallen 4 percent against the dollar this year.
Locals are buying property or building more to have something to
show for their euros, Ihlenfeld said.  Lucky Farmers  Friedrich Lichtenscheid, a retiree, said the town’s farmers
are the lucky ones because they own land.  “That’s better than holding euros,” Lichtenscheid said,
standing in the courtyard of a  half-timbered mill  from 1765 that
has been converted into a hotel and restaurant. He was
celebrating his 85th birthday. “I would have preferred to keep
the D-mark,” he said, referring to the deutsche mark.  The community had a balanced budget until 2008 and now has
a 2.8 million-euro deficit. The mayor wants to cut spending by
500,000 euros next year by trimming the town’s shuttle taxi
service and replacing some paid positions with volunteers.  “Everybody has to save money,” Ihlenfeld said in the
meeting room of his town hall. “Not just Greece.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Hassloch, Germany, at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  