-- Putin 2.0: Repeating the Soviet Union’s Mistakes
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-11T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/putin-2-0-repeating-the-soviet-union-s-mistakes.html
(Corrects fourth paragraph to indicate that oil prices are
adjusted for inflation.)  In his second incarnation as Russian
president,  Vladimir Putin  looks set to repeat some of the
mistakes that brought down the former Soviet Union, including a
nuclear arms race he can’t afford. He should change course for
his own sake, if not Russia’s.  Putin recognizes the challenges of  demography ,
technological backwardness and overdependence on natural
resource extraction that his country faces. He certainly knows
the deep impact that a euro-area depression could have on
Russia’s economy. But so far he appears unwilling to do what’s
needed to address these threats. Today, as Russia marks its day
of independence from the USSR, it’s worth revisiting some
lessons from the fall of the Soviet Union.  During his first two terms as president, Putin repeated a
critical error from the 1970s, failing to use the wealth
produced by high  oil prices  to institute structural reforms. The
price of Russia’s benchmark Urals crude rose almost fivefold
from 2000 to 2008. According to the government, the oil and gas
industry accounted for four percentage points of the 7 percent
average annual growth rate that Russia enjoyed for the last
decade, money that created a middle class that is now demanding
more political freedoms.  High oil prices had similarly cushioned  Leonid Brezhnev 
from the need to reform an inefficient Soviet economy and raised
popular expectations. When the price of a barrel of oil fell
from more than $100, adjusted for inflation, to $20 and below in
the early 1980s, it was too late to whisk Soviet industry into
the age of consumer technology. Soviet efforts to match U.S.
spending on its so-called Star Wars missile defense program, and
to project power in  Afghanistan , helped tip the  Soviet Union 
into bankruptcy.  Despite frequent government pledges to diversify Russia’s
economy away from hydrocarbons during Putin’s boom years, too
little was done. About half of this year’s Russian government
budget is dependent on revenue from the oil and gas industries.
Russia’s continued vulnerability became clear in 2009, when a
slump in oil prices after the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
crisis triggered one of the sharpest contractions experienced by
any major economy. Only Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin ’s prudent
siphoning of energy industry revenue into a strategic  reserve
fund  softened the blow. That fund has shrunk to $60 billion
today, from $140 billion in 2008.  So what will Putin do now? In what passed for a re-election
campaign this year, he said that by 2020, Russia should create
25 million new high tech jobs and move to 20th place, from
120th, in the  World Bank ’s ease-of-doing-business  rankings . By
2018, he said, Russia should be investing 27 percent of gross
domestic product, up from 21 percent today, and its  labor
productivity  should rise by half.  These are admirable,  Stakhanovite  goals. It’s also highly
unlikely that Putin will achieve them. Doing so would require a
single-minded, almost revolutionary, determination to change
Russia’s economic landscape, of which he shows little sign.  Instead, Putin appears to be trimming reforms already in
place, for example by restricting the scope of privatizations
and undermining a law reintroducing popular elections for
regional governors. Putin reappointed a quarter of Russia’s
governors just before that law took effect. On Friday, he signed
another bill into  law , which raises the fine for taking part in
unauthorized demonstrations to 300,000 rubles ($9,000), about
the average Russian’s annual salary. These moves demonstrate
Putin’s concern about ensuring political control, at the expense
of reform.  The most obvious echo from the past is Putin’s plan for
higher defense spending. Kudrin was fired last fall, after he
objected publicly to the government’s plans to triple the
military budget as a share of gross domestic product by 2014.
Kudrin warned that this would entrench  Russia ’s oil dependence
and make the economy vulnerable to a downturn. Putin, in a
Foreign Policy  article  titled “Being Strong” that appeared
before the election, described such fears as “profoundly
delusional.”  Russia has underspent on conventional military. Much of the
new money is to go for a new generation of ballistic missiles,
in direct response to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s
planned missile defense system. This is a Cold War reflex to a
system that, even if directed at Russia, could only nibble at
the edges of its still vast nuclear arsenal. Putin should use
those resources instead to encourage the business and
educational infrastructure needed to create the diverse, high-
value-added economy that Russia’s protesting middle classes want
to see.  Putin is a captive of his own past and of the system of
state-controlled capitalism he has built. He appears to believe
that such a huge increase in defense spending will kill two
birds with one stone: shore-up Russia’s great power status and,
as he wrote in  Foreign Policy , “feed the engines of
modernization in our economy, creating real growth.”  If anyone is delusional, it’s not Kudrin.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Spain’s bank bailout ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on  myths of the Wisconsin election ; Betsey Stevenson and
 Justin Wolfers  on  the death penalty and crime ; James Mann on  the
Obama administration’s Libya paradigm ;  Amity Shlaes  and David
Pietrusza on  Coolidge and persistence ; Peter J. Wallison on  the
trouble with liquidating failing banks .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 