-- Rafael Nadal Beats Djokovic to Win Record 7th French Open
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-11T15:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/rafael-nadal-beats-djokovic-to-win-record-seventh-french-open.html
Rafael Nadal  held his head in his
hands and cried after a double fault ended Novak Djokovic’s run
in major tennis tournaments and handed the Spaniard a record
seventh men’s French Open title.  The 26-year-old Nadal, who lost the previous three Grand
Slam finals to Djokovic, won 6-4, 6-3, 2-6, 7-5 in a match that
was delayed for rain twice and played over two days in Paris.  Nadal climbed into his box, embracing friends and family
members including his uncle and long-time coach,  Toni Nadal ,
after Djokovic’s fourth double fault ended the match.  “It’s a really emotional day, winning the seventh title is
very important,” Nadal said in a news conference. Earlier,
after being given the Coupe des Mousquetaires by former champion
 Mats Wilander  of  Sweden  on the first Monday final since 1973,
he’d told the crowd: “To have this trophy with me is something
unforgettable.”  Both players fought with their emotions as the weather
interrupted play yesterday. In the first hour, Djokovic threw
his racket on the clay and later used it to smash his bench to
pieces. After the first rain delay in the third set, Nadal
angrily pleaded with the chair umpire to stop the match as
conditions worsened and his performance deteriorated.  “The ball was getting heavier than ever, and the bounces
started to be bad in the last half hour” yesterday, Nadal said.
“I was very nervous before the match today.”  Borg, Laver  Nadal has now won 11 major singles titles, tying him with
Sweden’s  Bjorn Borg  and  Australia ’s  Rod Laver . Only  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  (16),  Pete Sampras  of the U.S. (14) and
 Roy Emerson  of Australia (12) have won more. It was Nadal’s
first major championship since he tied Borg with six titles in
Paris last year.  “This has been a strange final with delays and conditions
and two days’ length of match,” Djokovic, a right-hander from
 Serbia , told reporters. “Unfortunately there has been a rain
delay yesterday when I started to feel really good on the court.
But I don’t want to find an excuse in that, because the first
rain delay maybe helped me a little bit; the second helped him.
So that’s the way it goes, and the better player won today.”  Djokovic, who is ranked No. 1, beat the left-hander at
Wimbledon, the  U.S. Open  and the Australian Open, and would have
been the first man to hold all four majors since Laver swept the
titles in 1969. Laver, who also all four majors in 1962, and
American  Don Budge  in 1938 are the only men to win four in a row
in one calendar year.  Serena Williams  held four majors at the
same time by winning in Melbourne in 2003.  ‘Opportunity’  Djokovic said he hadn’t felt any extra pressure coming into
Roland Garros with a shot at making history.  “I was excited about this opportunity,” he said today.
“Nothing more than that, really.”  Play restarted today shortly after 1 p.m., with Nadal down
a break in the fourth set. He broke Djokovic in the first game
after the resumption with a backhand and held serve at love,
able to place spin on his shots again on the drier court. The
pair then stayed on serve as rain showers mixed with sunny
spells. With Djokovic serving to keep his run of Grand Slam
titles alive at 5-6, Nadal got to match point as he drilled
three forehands in a row at the Serb. Djokovic dropped his head
as he lost his serve and the match on a double fault, and Nadal
sank to the clay.  Fast Start  At the start of the match yesterday, Nadal controlled play
for the first hour as less than half of Djokovic’s first serves
landed inside the service box. This allowed the Spaniard to
dictate the rallies off his opponent’s second serve with his
forehand.  Unable to crack Nadal’s defense from the baseline, Djokovic
smashed a hole in his bench with a loud thud after losing serve
to go 4-3 down in the second set. After he was given a warning
by chair umpire Damien Dumusois, play was suspended because of
rain for 34 minutes, with Nadal leading 5-3 in the second set.  During the break, Djokovic slammed the door to the
trainers’ room shut while Nadal used the extra time to have his
racket re-strung.  Things didn’t immediately improve for Djokovic after the
rain delay, during which his on-court green bench was replaced
with a new one. Nadal took a two-set lead with a sliding
backhand passing shot and also won the first two games of the
third set.  Djokovic then turned the match around as the rain
intensified. With three-quarters of his first serves now landing
in, Djokovic stood on the baseline thumping ground strokes as he
rattled off six games in a row to win his first set against
Nadal at  Roland Garros .  Nadal Struggles  The heavier conditions affected Nadal’s head and play, as
it became increasingly difficult to put his customary spin on
the soggy balls.  At the start of the fourth set, Nadal lost a 45-stroke
rally with a backhand into the net. He finally held serve in the
third game, ending a run of eight games for Djokovic. With
Djokovic leading 2-1 in the fourth set, play was stopped for the
day. As he left the court, Nadal spoke angrily to tournament
referee Stefan Fransson, telling the Swede: “Now we have to
stop, always the same with you.”  The second-seeded Spaniard ended a seven-match losing
streak against Djokovic on clay courts in Monte Carlo and  Rome .
He’s won 35 clay-court titles, the most of anyone currently
playing on the  ATP World Tour . Borg won 30 tournaments on the
surface before he retired at the age 26 in 1983.  Agassi Praise  Before Roland Garros, 1999  French Open  champion  Andre Agassi  called Nadal the “ Mount Everest ” of the slow red clay
courts.  Nadal reached the finals in Paris having dropped only 35
games, the fewest since Borg lost 31 games in the first six
matches in 1980.  Djokovic’s route to the final wasn’t as straightforward. He
came back from two sets down in the fourth round against  Italy ’s
Andreas Seppi and saved four match points in the quarterfinals
against  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga. He beat Federer in the
semifinals.  Against Nadal, he made 53 unforced errors and dropped his
serve three times on a double fault. Nadal had 29 errors and 34
winners, five less than Djokovic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros in Paris via the London
newsroom at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  