-- Rand Bonds Soar on Citigroup Index Inclusion: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-11T14:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/rand-extends-first-weekly-gain-in-six-on-spain-bailout-china.html
South African bond yields tumbled
the most in six weeks after Citigroup Inc. said the nation’s
debt will be included in its World Government Bond Index from
October.  Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 dropped
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage points, to 7.63 percent
after falling as much as nine basis points in earlier trading,
the most since May 2.  South Africa ’s currency increased as much
as 1.5 percent before reversing its gains as Spain’s bailout
spurred concern that the sovereign-debt crisis is spreading,
trading 0.1 percent weaker at 8.3951 per dollar as of 4:18 p.m.
in Johannesburg.  South African bonds, with a market value of $83 billion,
will represent a 0.4 percent estimated market weight in the
index, Citigroup said. Eligible bonds will also be included in
the World Broad Investment-Grade Bond Index, attracting
investment from funds that track the gauges.  “Some foreign investors are going to have to take a look
and say: we’ve got to have a stake in South Africa,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , said by phone. “We’ll
see inflows into the  bond market , and that will also be positive
for the currency.”  The nation’s bond market  attracted  about 18 billion rand
($2.2 billion) in net inflows since Citigroup said April 16 the
country may be added to the index. South Africa’s inclusion may
attract a further $7.5 billion from October,  Leon Myburgh , a
Johannesburg-based analyst at Citigroup, said by phone.  Inflows  “A number of funds have mandated restrictions, which means
they can’t invest in a country until it’s included in the
index,” Myburgh said. “We should see an additional inflow to
the country after it’s included. It could be over a long period
of time, not necessarily concentrated.”  Spain  asked euro-region governments over the weekend for as
much as 100 billion euros ($126 billion) to help shore up its
banking system, making it the fourth member of the currency bloc
to seek a rescue. The bailout moved  Italy  to the frontline of
the crisis, as bets increased  Europe ’s third largest economy may
be the next to succumb.  “While news that Spain has moved one step closer to a
bailout may provide some support to the rand today, we remain of
the opinion that the bias for the local unit will be weakness
rather than strength as events in Europe are pushed to a
conclusion,” Theuns de Wet, an analyst at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “We would view any
strength as temporary for now.”  The euro pared gains against the dollar and the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index declined for a third day. The euro area is
South Africa’s biggest regional trading partner, buying 22
percent of the nation’s exports, according to government data.
Metals and other commodities account for 45 percent of South
Africa’s exports, according to government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  