-- Treasuries Drop as Spanish Bailout Call Saps Safey Demand
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-06-11T21:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/treasuries-drop-as-spanish-bailout-call-saps-safey-demand.html
Treasury 30-year bonds gained for
the first time in six days on speculation a bailout of Spanish
banks will provide only a short-term solution to the European
sovereign-debt crisis.  U.S. government securities erased earlier losses as Spanish
and Italian bonds slid on bets the 100 billion euros ($125
billion) of aid for  Spain ’s banks won’t be enough to stop
turmoil from spreading. Treasuries had dropped earlier as stocks
advanced, luring investors to higher-yielding assets. The U.S.
will auction $66 billion of notes this week, starting with $32
billion of three-year securities tomorrow.  “It reflects the ongoing negative sentiment of the
markets,” said  Sean Simko , who manages $8 billion at  SEI
Investments Co. (SEIC)  in Oaks,  Pennsylvania . “Spain is still the tip
of the iceberg. Once you move past  Greece  and Spain you still
have Portugal and Italy.”  Yields on the 3 percent bond due in May 2042 fell four
basis points to 2.71 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The yield earlier rose as much as 11 basis points to
2.85 percent. The price rose 25/32, or $7.81 per $1,000 face
value, to 105 30/32.  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell five basis points to 1.59
percent at 5 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The yield earlier rose as much as nine basis
points to 1.73 percent, the highest since May 30.  ‘Isn’t Over’  Spain requested the funds during a regional conference call
on June 9, becoming the fourth euro member to seek a bailout
since the start of the region’s debt crisis more than two years
ago. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  characterized the deal as a
 credit line  for banks and an endorsement of his policies.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield advanced 29 basis points to 6.51
percent after declining as much as 20 basis points.  “All eyes now are on Greece and Italy, so the European
crisis isn’t over,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New
York at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc., one of 21 primary
dealers that trade directly with the Fed.  Italy has 2 trillion euros of debt, more as a share of its
economy than any developed nation other than Greece and Japan.
Italy’s Treasury has to sell more than 35 billion euros of bonds
and bills per month -- more than the annual output of each of
the three smallest euro members, Cyprus, Estonia and Malta.  ‘Full of Danger’  U.S. government securities have gained 3 percent this
quarter through June 8, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data, as concern Greece will exit the euro and increasing
unemployment in the U.S. prompted investors to seek the safety
of  U.S. debt .  “The world’s full of danger,” said  Chris Ahrens , an
interest-rate strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at UBS AG,
one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “We’re
just another aid package down the road in this whole process of
trying to sort of the sovereign and financial issues.”  The average yield on bonds issued by the Group of Seven
nations has fallen to 1.12 percent from 3 percent in 2007, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Germany’s  two-year
note yield  fell below zero for the first time on June 1, while
Switzerland’s has been negative since April 24, meaning
investors are paying for the right to lend the nation money.  ‘Synchronized Slowdown’  “We may be in a synchronized slowdown” in global economic
growth, Mohamed El-Erian, who as chief executive officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co. oversees $1.77 trillion, said
in a June 6 telephone interview. “We could stay here for a
while.”  The three-year Treasuries being sold tomorrow yielded 0.37
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.36 percent at
the previous offering on May 8. Investors  bid  for 3.65 times the
amount for sale last month, more than the average of 3.38 for
the previous 10 auctions.  The U.S. will sell $21 billion of 10-year notes on June 13
and $13 billion of 30-year bonds the following day.  Two regional Fed bank presidents who vote on policy this
year, San Francisco’s  John Williams  and Atlanta’s  Dennis
Lockhart , have said the central bank should be prepared to take
action if the economy deteriorates further. Williams and
Lockhart are scheduled to speak today.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the European
debt crisis “poses significant risks to the U.S. financial
system and economy and must be monitored closely.” Speaking to
Congress’s Joint Economic Committee in  Washington , he refrained
from discussing steps the Fed might take to protect U.S. growth.  Operation Twist  “Fed speakers today could add another dimension to how
U.S. rates move along with the latest development in the euro
crisis,”  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London, wrote in a note
to clients.  The U.S. central bank sold $1.08 billion of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities maturing from January 2014 to
January 2015 today under its program to replace holdings of
shorter-term securities with longer-term bonds. The Fed bought
$2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of quantitative easing
from December 2008 to June 2011 to spur economic growth through
lower borrowing costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  