-- Rede Energia Restructures Local Debt After Celpa Defaults
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2012-06-11T22:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/rede-energia-restructures-local-bonds-after-celpa-unit-defaults.html
Rede Energia SA (REDE4) ’s creditors holding
local bonds due in 2014 approved a restructuring that allows the
Brazilian power company to repay the securities with shares from
its units and extend the maturity by 18 months.  The notes will be repaid by June 2016 after six principal
payments are made beginning in December 2013, according to the
minutes of a June 5 bondholder meeting released today. The
restructuring gives the company the option to make some of those
payments with equity. The minutes didn’t state the amount of
bonds outstanding.  Rede Energia, a holding company that controls power
distributors, is seeking to ease its debt burden after one of
its units,  Centrais Eletricas do Para SA , filed for bankruptcy
and defaulted on dollar bonds in February.  Fitch Ratings  cut
Rede Energia’s credit rating to C, or one level above default,
in March. The company’s dollar bonds traded at 37.38 cents on
the dollar at close in  New York , down 1.8 percent from June 8,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Bondholders are going to take some control of Rede -- I
like that,” said Luiz Campos, who manages about $800 million of
emerging market debt at Dinosaur Securities, said in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo .  “It’s a better beginning than
Celpa’s proposals” to restructure its debt, he said.  Celpa Restructuring  Campos said the kind of debt restructuring Rede Energia is
planning with its local debt probably wouldn’t work for foreign
debt holders because the company doesn’t have American
Depositary Receipts. Los Angeles-based Houlihan Lokey is serving
as financial adviser to holders of Rede Energia’s dollar-
denominated perpetual bonds amid restructuring discussions.  Celpa, based in Belem,  Brazil , said May 7 that it will seek
to raise 850 million reais ($441 million) through a bond sale
and loans as part of a plan to recover from bankruptcy. The plan
includes selling 650 million reais of local bonds convertible
into shares to yield 15 percent and loans of 200 million reais,
Celpa said in a regulatory filing.  Rede Energia said in an e-mailed response to questions that
it had 383 million reais of local bonds outstanding as of March
31, without providing a breakdown by maturity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  