-- Regulatory Risks Loom as O2, E-Plus Owners Consider Deal
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-06-12T09:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/regulatory-risks-loom-as-o2-e-plus-owners-consider-deal.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ,
weighing a $20 billion merger of their German businesses, would
probably face protracted regulatory scrutiny delaying any
savings and restricting potential stock gains.  A combination of Telefonica’s O2 and KPN’s E-Plus would cut
the number of network operators in Germany to three and create
the country’s largest wireless-service provider by customers. An
antitrust review could drag into 2013, with possibly different
outcomes depending on whether the European Commission or the
German Federal Cartel Office takes on the case, said Frederik
Wiemer, an antitrust lawyer at Heuking Kuehn in Hamburg.  When the European Commission approved a merger of  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s U.K. units in 2010, there was
little rivalry between the two operators, both had declining
market share and neither was among the cheapest providers. E-
Plus and O2 compete for lower-priced subscriptions, and both are
growing faster than  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and Deutsche Telekom,
said Javier Borrachero, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.  “In the U.K. this was a relatively easy case to make, with
T-Mobile underperforming and the  France Telecom  unit not
delivering either,” said Madrid-based Borrachero, who has a
“buy” rating on Telefonica and “hold” for KPN. “In Germany
that’s not obvious at all. I wouldn’t take this scenario as a
reason to recommend either Telefonica or KPN.”  Strategic Options  KPN and Telefonica are exploring the German combination, as
well as an initial public offering of the joint carrier, among
various strategic options, people familiar with the matter said
this month. The Hague, Netherlands-based KPN, seeking to fend
off an unsolicited 2.6 billion-euro ($3.3 billion) offer for a
stake by  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, estimates a merger
would generate 4 billion euros in synergies.  The enlarged company would have a value of 16.2 billion
euros, including savings, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst
 Robin Bienenstock  wrote in a June 8 note. Madrid-based
Telefonica, America Movil’s main competitor in  Latin America , is
separately pursuing IPOs of its German and Latin American assets
to help reduce net debt of more than 57 billion euros.  A deal this large would have to be reviewed by the
Brussels-based European Commission. The German antitrust office
is likely to ask the EU watchdog to turn the case over to it,
said Joerg Karenfort, head of Salans LLP’s competition-law
practice in Berlin.  ‘Effective Competition’  Both the Commission and the German regulator would be
interested in reviewing a potential merger of E-Plus and O2,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Germany ’s
Federal Cartel Office won’t in principle rule out a reduction in
market participants, another person said, adding that it’s too
early to provide a detailed assessment.  KPN and Telefonica may face greater resistance from the
European Commission than German regulators, said Wiemer, the
lawyer at Heuking Kuehn, who estimates the review process may
take seven months.  “Whereas the Commission may prohibit the merger if it
leads to a significant impediment of effective competition, the
 Federal Cartel Office  must find the creation of a market
dominant position of the merged entity,” he said. “Apparently,
there is no single dominant player in Germany. The flood of new
offers by service providers or retailers in recent years may
also work in favor of an approval.”  Revenue Share  O2 and E-Plus would have a combined mobile-phone customer
base of 41.7 million, which would leapfrog Vodafone’s 36.5
million and Deutsche Telekom’s 35.1 million. Based on wireless-
service revenue in the first three months of this year, a
combined E-Plus and O2 remains smaller, with about 1.53 billion
euros, compared with Vodafone’s 1.7 billion euros and 1.66
billion euros for T-Mobile.  Representatives for the Commission and the German regulator
declined to comment, as did spokesmen for Telefonica and KPN.  Niek Jan van Damme, who leads Deutsche Telekom’s German
unit, said a merger of E-Plus and O2 is a “valid option.”  “I’ve myself experienced similar consolidation in the
Dutch market from five to three network operators,” he said in
an interview today in Cologne. “Prices have remained under
pressure and have come down.”  Slim’s Stake  Through yesterday, KPN shares had gained 20 percent since
May 7, the day  America Movil  announced its bid. The stock added
0.3 percent to 7.79 euros at 11:25 a.m. Amsterdam time, trading
below the 8 euro-a-share offer that ends June 27. Telefonica
rose 2.1 percent to 9.89 euros and has dropped 11 percent since
May 7.  America Movil, which has offered to increase its KPN stake
to as much as 27.7 percent, said yesterday it had accumulated a
7.3 percent holding in the carrier.  A number of telecommunications mergers have faltered in the
face of regulatory opposition. Vodafone in February abandoned
its attempt to combine its Greek unit with Wind Hellas. European
regulators were concerned about creating a market with only two
operators, a person said at the time.  Last year,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Deutsche Telekom gave up on the
U.S. carrier’s proposed $39 billion purchase of  T-Mobile USA  as
authorities opposed a deal that would have reduced the number of
nationwide players to three from four.  Switzerland ’s regulators in 2010 rejected France Telecom’s
plan to merge its Swiss operations with those of  TDC A/S. (TDC)  In
February this year, antitrust authorities approved Apax Partners
LLP’s purchase of France Telecom’s local Orange unit. That deal
didn’t decrease the number of operators.  Market Concentration  E-Plus’s  first-quarter  mobile-service revenue rose 4.2
percent to 767 million euros from the year-earlier period, as it
added 2.3 million customers. O2’s wireless-service sales rose 11
percent to 758 million euros and its customers increased 7.1
percent. That exceeded growth at Vodafone and Deutsche Telekom.  Germany’s mobile market is already less competitive than
the U.K.’s, Exane BNP Paribas analysts say, citing the
Herfindahl-Hirschman Index, a measure of market concentration
that it says antitrust authorities are likely to reference. A
merger would take the measure to 3,300 from 2,900, exacerbating
its high market concentration. The creation of Everything
Everywhere moved the U.K. market to 2,800 from 2,300 as the
number of network operators shrank to four.  Flat Rate  “An E-Plus and O2 merger would be considered to increase
market power and could be blocked or come with substantial
remedies,” the analysts wrote in a June 6 note.  Regulators may observe that E-Plus has been keeping other
operators  on their toes  with low-cost offers. The KPN unit in
April introduced a 20-euro flat rate for mobile voice and data
connections under the Yourfone brand, undercutting its rivals by
more than a third.  In addition to an antitrust review, Germany’s Federal
Network Agency would have to review the network infrastructure
and spectrum holdings of a combined entity. E-Plus and
Telefonica would probably be required to sell some of those
assets to their peers, according to Bernstein’s Bienenstock.  “The antitrust authority will probably weigh whether a
merged business can better stand up to the market leaders than
individual providers could,” said Salans’s Karenfort. But they
“will carefully review whether this creates an oligopoly of
three, which would be problematic from an antitrust control
point of view.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  