-- Renewable Power in Development Phase, Leading to Producer Slump
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-06-11T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/renewable-power-in-development-phase-leading-to-producer-slump.html
The solar and wind-power equipment
business is in a development phase that, like the car industry
of the 1900s, is leading to a slump in numbers of manufacturers
before it can mature, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “In 1903, the  United States  had over 500 car companies,
most of which quickly fell by the wayside even as the automobile
sector grew into an industrial juggernaut,” Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Liebreich  said in a statement accompanying the
release of two reports today based on data compiled by BNEF.  Overcapacity and falling prices led to least 10 solar power
companies including U.S. Treasury-backed Solyndra LLC collapsing
in the past year. That’s even as renewable investment last year
rose 17 percent to $257 billion, with clean power accounting for
44 percent of new energy capacity, according to the reports.  Solar cell prices slid 60 percent in the 15 months through
December, feeding a 50 percent drop in the cost of solar panels,
according to BNEF. That contributed to the failure of companies
including Solyndra, SpectraWatt Inc., Evergreen Solar Inc. and
Energy Conversion Devices Inc. Wind turbine prices for machines
sold last year for delivery in 2013 are down 25 percent on 2009.  “A century ago, writing off the  auto industry  based on the
failures of weaker firms would have been foolish,” Liebreich
said. “Today, the renewable energy sector is experiencing
similar growing pains as the sector consolidates.”  The Bloomberg Large Solar equity index  fell  30 percent in
2012, with Q-Cells SE down 75 percent. The Bloomberg Industries
Wind Turbine Pure-Play index  slid  25 percent, with Vestas Wind
Systems A/S, the biggest producer, down almost 50 percent.  Rio+20  World leaders will gather at a United Nations conference in
 Rio de Janeiro  this month to debate adopting a  statement  calling
for a doubling of the share of renewables in generation by 2030
to cut greenhouse gas emissions and dependence on fossil fuels.
The UN Environment Program published one of today’s reports.  The meeting, dubbed Rio+20, marks two decades since the Rio
Earth Summit set up conventions to protect biodiversity and curb
climate change. More than 130 leaders will draft a declaration
with steps to protect resources, spur growth and cut poverty.  Retail solar rates are already competitive with traditional
generation in  Germany ,  Italy ,  Spain , Denmark and  Hawaii  in the
day, according to today’s statement. Onshore wind will compete
with gas prices by 2016, say the reports from the UNEP and the
Renewable Energy Policy Network for the 21st Century, or REN21.  Booming Rooftops  Renewables supply 16.7 percent of world energy demand,
according to the reports. Investment in solar power, with
booming rooftop panel markets in Germany and Italy, led the way
last year, attracting $147 billion. While China edged out the
U.S. with $52 billion of spending,  India  was the fastest-growing
large market as investment surged 62 percent to $12 billion.  At least 118 countries have renewable energy targets in
place, according to REN21, up from 96 a year ago.  “Renewable energy is spreading to more countries and
regions of the globe,” Chairman Mohamed El-Ashry said in the
statement. “Globally there are more than 5 million jobs in
renewable energy industries, and the potential for  job creation 
continues to be a main driver for renewable energy policies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 