-- Republicans Won’t Gain by Attacking Obama on Syria
-- B y   J a m e s   M a n n
-- 2012-06-11T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/republicans-won-t-gain-by-attacking-obama-on-syria.html
What factors are influencing the
Obama administration as it weighs an intervention in  Syria ?  For perspective, look at last year’s decision by President
 Barack Obama  to deploy U.S. airpower over Libya, which
encapsulates some of the defining aspects of Obama’s foreign
policy. It helps explain not only why the administration has
been so reluctant to act in Syria, but also why -- regardless of
what happens in Syria -- Republicans will find it hard to
develop a single, consistent attack on Obama’s foreign policy in
this year’s election.  Late in the afternoon of March 15, 2011, Obama gathered
with members of his  National Security Council  in the White House
Situation Room. In Libya, Colonel  Muammar Qaddafi  was on the
verge of slaughtering the civilians and ragtag opposition forces
that had risen up against him. The Obama administration was
confronting an urgent decision: whether to send U.S. warplanes
over  Libya  in an effort to stop him.  Over the previous two weeks, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and British Prime Minister  David Cameron  had been
imploring Obama to do just that. Obama’s Cabinet was divided:
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  had been opposed to military
action, while Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  had been in
favor.  Beyond No-Fly  Obama took the deliberations in a new direction. Why, asked
the president, are we focusing on a no-fly zone? “This notion
that we’re going to put some planes in the air to fly over a
massacre just doesn’t make a lot of sense,” he said. “We could
feel really good about ourselves, on the right side of history,
and the people would still get killed.”  “I want more options,” Obama concluded, announcing that he
wanted to reconvene the National  Security Council  later that
night to hear what else he might do besides an ineffective no-
fly zone.  That night, he was presented with a range of military
 options . One was to use no U.S. force at all, and simply to
provide intelligence and other support for French and British
forces. Another was the no-fly zone. The third was to go beyond
the no-fly zone by sending out planes to strike at Libyan
military targets on the ground in a way that would stop their
advance toward Benghazi.  The president ultimately chose the third military option,
ordering  Susan Rice , his ambassador to the  United Nations , to
seek Security Council approval for a resolution authorizing “all
necessary measures” -- a euphemism for military force -- to
protect civilians.  What Obama did two days later was even more striking. After
the Security Council approved the U.S. proposal, he called
Cameron and Sarkozy and worked out what his aides called a deal:
The U.S. would use its unique military capabilities to demolish
not only Libya’s air defenses, but other military targets on the
ground. Then, after a few days, the U.S. would step back and
leave it to the British, French and other allies to continue the
military campaign. The U.S. would provide what the military
calls ISR -- intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. The
rest would be up to others.  Less than 48 hours later, more than 100 Tomahawk cruise
missiles rained down on targets along the Libyan coastline,
hitting anything that might be used against allied warplanes
over Libya. Immediately afterward, U.S. planes struck at tanks,
armored vehicles, heavy artillery, and other armor and weaponry.
Qaddafi’s forces were suddenly stripped of their principal
advantage over the opposition.  Democratic Wars  There was no massacre in Benghazi. The rebel forces held
the city. But the civil war was just starting. After the first
few days, Obama kept U.S. forces out of combat, despite
occasional British and French appeals for the U.S. to rejoin the
 air campaign .  Obama’s decisions on Libya showcase two of the most
distinctive aspects of his foreign policy. First, Obama was not
squeamish about employing U.S. military power. His actions in
the White House belied the stereotypes of weakness that
Republicans have tried to pin on Democratic presidents and
presidential candidates for four decades: that they are averse
to the use of force. In Libya, in fact, Obama decided to take
stronger military action than U.S. allies had proposed. In
 Afghanistan , he greatly increased the U.S. military presence,
sending more than 50,000 additional troops in his first year in
office. In the war against al-Qaeda, he vastly stepped up the
use of drones and special operations, such as the raid that
killed  Osama bin Laden .  All of this was surprising to many Democrats who had chosen
Obama for the Democratic nomination because of his opposition to
the war in Iraq. For them, Obama turned out to be the peace
candidate who wasn’t.  But Obama’s actions were also disconcerting to Republicans,
who had trouble figuring out a consistent line of attack against
the president. During Obama’s first year, former Vice President
 Dick Cheney  portrayed him as weak. In Obama’s second year,
Cheney began arguing that the Democratic president represented
in many ways a continuation of  George W. Bush ’s administration.
In the third year, after the drone killing of Anwar al-Awlaki in
Yemen, Cheney praised the operation, but called upon Obama to
apologize for having supposedly accused the Bush team of
overreacting to the Sept. 11 attacks. Similarly, while running
for the Republican presidential nomination,  Newt Gingrich  at
first upbraided Obama for failing to establish a no-fly zone in
Libya; then, after Obama did so and went even further, Gingrich
said he would not have intervened at all.  Second, Libya also illustrated the other salient feature of
Obama’s foreign policy: his continuing effort to recast the U.S.
role in the world in a way that fit the country’s more limited
resources. No other president since World War II had entered
into a military campaign quite like the one in Libya, in which
Obama helped start the operation and then willingly, indeed
insistently, handed off the next six months of work to its
allies. For years, U.S. politicians had been talking about the
importance of “ burden sharing ” with its allies. This usually
meant asking other countries to help pay for U.S.-dominated
operations. Obama went well beyond that.  Syria’s Difference  Over the past few months, in considering whether to
intervene in Syria, the administration has decided that the
differences from Libya have outweighed the similarities.  Above all, the military options in Syria seemed much less
viable than the ones available on Libya. Significant parts of
Libyan territory were outside of government control. Qaddafi’s
army was physically separated from the rebel forces in such a
way that a military operation could protect opposition forces
from the air and could stop the advance of the Libyan army on
Benghazi. Syria has no such neat territorial divisions between
the security forces and the opposition.  When it came to Libya, the UN Security Council, prodded by
 France  and Britain, was moving toward some sort of action
against Qaddafi even before Obama decided to intervene. In the
case of Syria, the Russians and Chinese have blocked any such
authorization from the Security Council.  The Obama administration is employing some of the same
political and diplomatic approaches in Syria as it did in Libya,
and working with many of the same partners to coordinate
economic sanctions against the regime and support for the
opposition. The administration is repeatedly urging the Syrian
opposition to unite, much as it did with the Libyan opposition.  But on Syria, the administration has decided (at least so
far) that military intervention is not in the cards. It wants no
part of what could become a messy, bloody civil war --
particularly not in an election year. The Republicans are again
left trying to decide from which direction to criticize Obama --
for mounting a military operation on largely humanitarian
grounds, as he did in Libya, or for failing to do so, as he has
in Syria.  (James Mann is author-in-residence at Johns Hopkins School
of Advanced International Studies. This essay was adapted from
his new book, “The Obamians: The Struggle Inside the White House
to Redefine U.S. Power,” which is being published this week by
Viking. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Spain’s bank bailout  and
 Russia’s foolish military buildup;   Ramesh Ponnuru  on  myths of
the Wisconsin election ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on
 the death penalty and crime ;  Amity Shlaes  and David Pietrusza on
 Coolidge and persistence ; Peter J. Wallison on  the trouble with
liquidating failing banks .  To contact the writer of this article:
James Mann at  jmann12@jhu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 