-- Rinehart Seeks to Reclaim 3 Billion-Ton Iron Ore Stake
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-06-12T09:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/rinehart-seeks-to-reclaim-3-billion-ton-iron-ore-stake.html
Gina Rinehart ,  Asia ’s richest woman,
is attempting to reclaim a stake in one of Australia’s most
valuable  iron ore  assets, after a judge awarded the holding to
Wright Prospecting Pty two years ago.  The judge who awarded the 25 percent stake in the Rhodes
Ridge property to Wright Prospecting failed to consider
provisions that nullified an agreement between Rinehart’s father
Lang Hancock and his former partner Peter Wright, a lawyer
representing Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting Pty said today at an
appeal hearing in Perth. The lawyer, Steven Finch, urged the
judges to overturn the decision.  The appeal continues an 11-year dispute over the property
between the heirs of Hancock and Wright, whose iron-ore
discoveries in the Australian state in the 1950s and 1960s made
Rinehart the richest person in the country and Wright’s
children, Angela Bennett and Michael Wright, the 14th
wealthiest, according to BRW’s Rich 200 list. Michael Wright
died in April.  “The parties had agreed between themselves that Rhodes
Ridge would be shared,” Finch told a three-judge appeal panel
in the Supreme Court of  Western Australia  today at the start of
a scheduled four-day hearing.  Development of Rhodes Ridge may generate A$2.5 billion
($2.5 billion) a year in operating profit for  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ,
which owns half the project, and its joint venture partner, said
Peter Strachan, a resources analyst at StockAnalysis.  “Iron ore is the new black,” Perth-based Strachan said in
a telephone interview, referring to the current popularity of
the commodity.  Biggest Earner  Iron ore  has more than doubled to $131.40 a ton as of June
8 from $59.10 on March 27, 2009, helping Rinehart rise to the
29th spot on a list of the world’s wealthiest people with a net
worth of $18.4 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index .  Iron ore generates the most revenue for both London-based
 Rio Tinto  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  of  Melbourne .  China  is the
largest customer for both companies, providing 31 percent of
sales to Rio and 28 percent to BHP in their most recent
financial years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gervase Greene , a spokesman at Rio Tinto in Perth, declined
to comment on the dispute between Wright and Rinehart. Mark Bickerton, a spokesman at Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting Pty,
also declined to comment.  In his March 8, 2010, decision that stripped Rinehart of
her stake in the project, Supreme Court Justice  Michael Murray 
said discussions of the value of the property were held in
closed court during the trial because they were deemed
commercially sensitive.  Rio Tinto is spending at least $15.6 billion to expand iron
ore operations to meet demand from China.  Life-Long Friends  The Rhodes Ridge property lies between the operating Hope
Downs 1 mine and the Hope Downs 4, where Rio Tinto plans to
start mining by the end of the year. The Hope Downs mines are
equally owned by Hancock Prospecting and Rio Tinto.  Lang Hancock and Peter Wright, whose lifelong friendship
and business relationship appeared to be deteriorating by the
early 1980s according to court records, initially agreed in 1983
to carve up some of their properties, with each having the
option of taking full control of their portion.  Further negotiations broke down with Hancock accusing
Wright of reneging on their agreement on Dec. 30, 1984, over
development of the Marandoo iron ore project in Western
 Australia , Murray wrote.  Properties Split  “As long as you insist on tying a string that prevents
things going, my choice is between spending money on a hopeless
cause or continuing to carry an ever-increasing burden,”
Hancock wrote to Wright, with the judge citing the letter in the
reasons for his  decision . “This, I am not prepared to do any
longer; so as far as I am concerned it means the end of doing
anything together.”  Under the 1983 agreement, which was completed in 1984,
properties were divided into two groups, with one including the
interests in the McCamey and Marandoo Western Australia iron ore
joint ventures along with coal interests in Queensland. The
second group included Rhodes Ridge and limestone, chrome and
base metal interests in Western Australia, with Hancock
identified in the agreement as LGH and Wright as EAW.  Division Option  “The note at the foot of the memo in the hand of  Lang
Hancock  reads: ‘Agreed in principle subject to documentation
with choice of list of assets to be made by EAW before the end
of the week. EAW now chooses Group 1 & X, LGH to take Group 2 &
Y,’’ Murray wrote in his decision.  The agreement didn’t divide up the  assets , rather it
provided a mechanism to do so with each party having the right
to exercise an option to implement it, Murray said.  A 1989 agreement that again redistributed the assets,
including Rhodes Ridge, lapsed in 1992, when Hancock died, the
judge ruled. The redistribution plan reverted to the 1984
accord, Murray said.  The judge failed to take into consideration statutory
limitations, including approvals from the state’s mines
minister, that were required before any transfer could occur,
Finch said today.  Wright Prospecting sought to take Hancock’s 25 percent
stake in Rhodes Ridge, by exercising the option, in 1997 and
again in 2000. The company sued in 2001 to press its demand.  ‘‘The 1997 and 2000 options were invalidly executed,”
Finch said, because they didn’t comply with the requirement for
ministerial approval.  Survivor’s Rights  Murray ruled the agreement was a valid and effectual
contract and that Rinehart’s Hancock breached it by refusing to
comply with Wright Prospecting’s decision to exercise its
option.  Transfers also required the approval of 80 percent of
shareholders of the joint venture and gave management rights to
the survivor of the partnership, the lawyer said.  “If Mr. Wright dies, as he did, and Mr. Hancock survives
him, as he did” Hancock gets to manage the partnership,
according to the agreement, Finch said. “He could sell Rhodes
Ridge and the proceeds would have to be split.”  The appeal case is: Hancock Prospecting Pty. v. Wright
Prospecting Pty.  CACV43/2011.  Supreme Court  of Western
Australia (Perth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  