-- Romania May Inflation Stays at Post-Communist Low on Food Prices
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-06-11T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/romania-may-inflation-stays-at-post-communist-low-on-food-prices.html
Romania ’s  inflation  rate remained at
a two-decade low in May as food-price declines canceled out
growth in services and non-food prices.  The annual rate stood at 1.8 percent for a second month,
the Bucharest-based  National Statistics Institute  said today by
e-mail. The figure matched the median estimate of 1.8 percent of
nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Consumer prices grew 0.2
percent in the month.  As the country’s inflation, the fastest in the European
Union last year, slowed to record lows over the past six months,
Romanian policy makers had room to reduce the benchmark  interest
rate  to an all-time low of 5.25 percent as the economy entered a
technical recession in the first quarter.  Inflation will probably quicken from May because of a
statistical base effect, through the rate won’t exceed the 4
percent upper limit of a target range for this year, according
to the central bank. It forecasts inflation will end 2012 at 3.2
percent before slowing to 3 percent next year.  Food prices fell 2.1 percent in May from a year earlier,
compared with a 1.9 percent drop in April, according to the
institute. Price growth for non-food items accelerated to 3.3
percent from a year earlier, compared with 3.2 percent in April,
the institute said.  Service-price growth accelerated to 6.2 percent in May from
a year ago from 6 percent in the previous month as the leu fell
to a record low against the euro and boosted telephone bills,
postal service prices and other items denominated in euros, the
institute said.  Industrial output  rose a seasonally adjusted 2.6 percent in
April from a year earlier, after it posted a 0.5 percent annual
increase in March, the Statistics Institute said today in a
separate release. Output grew 1.1 percent on the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  