-- Romania Seeks to Change Prime Dealers Rules
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-06-11T14:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/romania-seeks-to-change-prime-dealers-rules.html
Romania  seeks to boost trading of
its state treasuries on a secondary market by setting new rules
for primary dealers at bonds and bills auctions from next year.  The  Finance Ministry  and the National Bank will set new
criteria for reviewing the primary dealing licenses of
commercial banks depending mainly on their trading the
treasuries on a secondary market, according to a  draft document 
published on the Bucharest-based central bank’s website today
and set for public debate.  The dealers can get a maximum of 50 points out of 100 for
their “activity on the secondary market,” 40 points for “the
activity on the primary market” and 10 points for meeting some
qualitative criteria, policy makers said in the document. “The
main purpose of the changes is to develop the state treasuries
market, increase its efficiency, liquidity, transparency and its
predictability.”  Romania plans to increase the competition between the 41
banks operating in its market, out of which only 12 are primary
dealers for state treasuries, as it seeks to secure the funding
of its  budget deficit  and maturing debt, while it starts paying-
back a 20 billion-euro ($25 billion) bailout to the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union from this
year.  Loss of License  The banks with the two lowest rankings may lose their
primary dealer license and be replaced with other lenders, while
the best performers will be rewarded, following an annual
review, according to the document.  Commercial banks, 90 percent of which are owned by
international lenders, can use the bills and bonds as collateral
for the financing operations conducted by the central bank at a
time when their western parents provide less money amid the
sovereign-debt crisis and new capital rules imposed by the
European Banking Authority.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei increased the weekly amount
of liquidity it provides to lenders through a repurchase
operation in the past month. It lent the biggest amount in
almost three years on June 5 of 12 billion lei ($3.4 billion) to
13 banks, at the operation used until May 21 by only four banks,
data published on Bloomberg show.  Twelve banks borrowed today 11.5 billion lei from the
central bank during the weekly repurchase operation.  Central Bank Governor Mugur Isarescu said on May 8 the
regulator plans to “stimulate” the secondary market for state
treasuries as the IMF advised policy makers not to cut the
minimum  reserve requirements  to provide more liquidity to the
lenders and use the money as a buffer against the debt crisis.  Romania sold about 35 billion lei in leu-denominated debt
so far this year and also borrowed $2.25 billion from the U.S.
market in February.  Austrian lenders control about 39 percent of the market,
followed by Greek banks with 15.5 percent and French lenders
with more than 10 percent, according to the central bank.  Erste
Group Bank AG (EBS) ’s Banca Comerciala Romana SA is the country’s
largest lender by assets, followed by  BRD-Groupe Societe
Generale SA. (BRD)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  