-- Russian ADRs Drop in U.S. Ahead of Protests: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-06-12T03:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/russian-adrs-drop-in-u-s-ahead-of-protests-russia-overnight.html
Russian equities  traded in the U.S.
fell the most in a week and  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) ’s premium
over Moscow-listed shares shrunk to the smallest this month as
stocks in U.S. fell and Russian police searched homes of anti-
presidential protest leaders.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies fell 1.1 percent to 84.62 in New York
yesterday, falling the most since June 1. OAO Mobile
TeleSystems,  Russia ’s biggest mobile phone company, slumped the
most since May 30, shrinking the premium over its Moscow shares
to the lowest since May 22.  OAO Gazprom Neft (GZPFY) , the oil arm of
Russia’s gas export monopoly, rose to the highest since May 11,
swelling premium to the Moscow shares to the highest since Jan.
25. Russian markets remain closed today because of holidays.  Stocks in U.S. and  Europe  on skepticism  Spain ’s 100 billion
euro ($125 billion) bank bailout will contain the sovereign debt
crisis. Opposition to President  Vladimir Putin  plan a rally on
the Russia Day Holiday today following the biggest street
protests in a decade against the government policies. Russian
police have searched the homes of opposition leaders including
Alexey Navalny, Sergei Udaltsov, Ilya Yashin yesterday, Russia’s
Investigative Committee said in a June 11  statement .  “Investors don’t yet have any confidence in the Russia
domestic story,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika
Dialog in Moscow, said via e-mail yesterday. “Instead they use
Russian equities as a bet on global market trends, so when
confidence fades Russian stocks move weaker. There has been a
policy vacuum in Russia and the headlines have been dominated by
political transition and protests.”  MTS Sinks  Mobile TeleSystems, known as MTS, declined 2.4 percent to
$17.41 yesterday, shrinking its premium to the company’s Moscow
shares to 21.2 percent, the least since May 22. Gazprom Neft
advanced 1.4 percent to $21.46, trading at a 3 percent premium
to Moscow shares, the highest since Jan. 25. Russian markets are
closed for a second day today for the Russia Day holiday.  The government has given permission for 50,000 people to
take part in the protest today.  “Tuesday is a very key day,” Weafer said. “The planned
protest in Moscow is the first big potential clash between a
much more determined and hard core protest group and the new
government. If there is a clash then it will further marginalize
the Russia investment case.”  Russia ETF Declines  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, tumbled 2 percent to $24.59 yesterday,
dropping the most since June 1.  “The real consequence from the continuing threat of
political instability is that the pool of investors active in
Russia remains small,” Weafer said. “These headlines keep
those that do not need to be in Russia firmly outside.”  Yandex NV (YNDX) , the owner of Russia’s most-used search engine,
sank 6.5 percent to $17.71 yesterday, the lowest level since
Dec. 19. The company was the worst performer on the Russia-U.S.
Equity Index yesterday, followed by  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  and OAO
 Mechel. (MTLR)   VimpelCom Ltd., the world’s sixth-biggest mobile phone
provider, retreated 3.5 percent to $7.66, dropping the most
since May 30. The stock fell for the first day in six yesterday.  Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s largest coal producer for steelmakers,
declined 2.8 percent to $5.52, trading at a 3.9 percent discount
to the company’s Moscow-listed  shares .  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
slid 1.9 percent to HK$4.75 in Hong Kong trading as of 10:44
a.m. local time.  Crude oil for July delivery slumped 1.7 percent to $82.70 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, the lowest
settlement since Oct. 6. Prices have fallen 16 percent in 2012.  Brent Crude  Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, sank 3.2 percent
to $95.13 yesterday, dropping to the lowest level since Jan. 27,
2011. Oil, together with natural gas, accounted for about 50
percent of budget revenue in 2011, according to government data.  OAO Lukoil (LUKOY) , Russia’s second-biggest oil producer after OAO
Rosneft, tumbled 2 percent to $51.95, trading at a 0.4 percent
discount to the company’s Moscow-listed  shares , the biggest gap
since May 22.  Brent oil for July settlement dropped 1.5 percent to $98 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
yesterday. Brent oil, a benchmark for more than half the world’s
crude, has fallen 22 percent since its highest close this year
on March 13 through yesterday.  Spain asked euro-region governments over the weekend for as
much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion) to help shore up its
banking system. Spain became the fourth euro member -- following
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  -- to seek a bailout since the debt
crisis began almost three years ago, after its borrowing costs
approached euro-era highs.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index retreated 1 percent
to 582.43.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  