-- S&P Says India May Be First in BRIC to Lose Investment Grade
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-06-11T12:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/s-p-says-india-may-be-first-bric-nation-to-lose-investment-grade.html
India  may become the first BRIC
nation to lose its investment-grade  credit rating ,  Standard &
Poor’s  said, citing slowing growth and political roadblocks to
economic policy making. The rupee weakened and stocks fell.  “Setbacks or reversals in India’s path toward a more
liberal economy could hurt its long-term growth prospects and,
therefore, its credit quality,” Joydeep Mukherji, an analyst at
Standard & Poor’s in New York, said in a statement today. India
is rated BBB- by S&P, one level above junk and the lowest in the
BRIC group, which also includes Brazil,  Russia  and  China .  Indian gross domestic product rose 5.3 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the least in nine years, stoking concern
the nation’s economic prospects have deteriorated as policy
gridlock deters investment and Europe’s debt crisis crimps
exports. S&P lowered India’s credit outlook to negative from
stable in April, contrasting with ratings upgrades in Asian
nations from  Indonesia  to the  Philippines  in recent months.  “It’s another warning signal reflecting weakening growth
fundamentals, and if it happens it may have a negative impact on
inflows,” said  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in Mumbai. “The government urgently needs to take steps to
reverse this negative spiral.”  The rupee fell 0.5 percent to 55.73 per dollar at the local
time close, while the BSE India Sensitive Index  ended  down 0.3
percent. The currency has slumped 20 percent in the past year.
The yield on the 8.79 percent note due November 2021 declined
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.33 percent.  Downgrade Scenario  “Fiscal slippage, combined with persistently high
inflation, could further weaken investor confidence,” S&P said
in a linked report. “Both the government’s debt burden and
fiscal flexibility could continue to erode, in step with rising
external vulnerability because of higher trade and current
account deficits. India’s  credit quality  would suffer under such
a scenario, and a downgrade could result.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is facing one of
its most challenging periods since taking office in 2004. The
administration is grappling with a trade deficit that reached a
record $184.9 billion in the fiscal year ended March, the widest
BRIC budget shortfall and an inflation rate of more than 7
percent.  The prime minister defended India’s record last month,
saying its gross domestic product rose at one of the fastest
paces in the world last financial year.  Singh’s Vow  On June 6, he vowed to revitalize growth as he outlined
projects including new ports, roads and power plants and urged
officials to bridge differences impeding progress. GDP climbed
6.5 percent in 2011-2012.  “If the rating agencies start downgrading India at 6
percent GDP growth then you start wondering what the ratings of
the euro nations and the U.S. should be,” said Krishnamurthy Harihar, a Mumbai-based treasurer at  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)   “Despite its recent problems, the Indian economy remains
in much better shape to muddle through the current period of
heightened global uncertainty than it was earlier, especially in
the early 1990s, when it suffered a balance-of-payments
crisis,” S&P said. The nation’s $250 billion in foreign-
exchange reserves and a floating  exchange rate  give “scope for
adjusting to external shocks,” it said.  India is taking all necessary steps to boost economic
expansion, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in New Delhi
today. He pledged in March to narrow the fiscal deficit to 5.1
percent of GDP in 2012-2013 from about 5.9 percent in the last
fiscal year.  Rate Signal  The economic slowdown and an oil-price drop suggest more
room for another interest-rate cut even as inflation risks
remain,  Reserve Bank  of India Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said
on June 1. The monetary authority lowered  borrowing costs  to 8
percent from 8.5 percent on April 17. The majority of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey expect another reduction on June 18.  S&P’s long-term foreign-currency rating for China is AA-,
with Brazil and Russia both at BBB, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The company’s long-term local currency rating is
at AA- for China, A- for Brazil and BBB+ for Russia.  Ratings changes aren’t necessarily accompanied by
corresponding moves in bond prices. Instead of falling in value
after S&P stripped the U.S. of the top AAA sovereign rating,
Treasuries rallied and the U.S. government’s borrowing costs
fell to record lows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  