-- Sandusky Sex-Abuse Trial Revisits Penn State Low Point
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n ,   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r   a n d   D r e w   G i n g r i c h
-- 2012-06-11T20:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/sandusky-sex-abuse-trial-revisits-penn-state-low-point.html
Prosecutors today began making their
case against Jerry Sandusky, the former  Pennsylvania  State
University assistant football coach accused of using his charity
and school ties to target and sexually abuse young boys.  Sandusky, 68, faces 52 criminal counts for allegedly
abusing 10 boys over 15 years. If convicted in state court in
Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, he could spend the rest of his life in
prison.  The heart of the prosecution’s case is the testimony of
eight alleged victims, now ranging in age from 18 to 28. A
prosecutor read the first names of many of the boys for the jury
and described abuses they allegedly suffered. He said one of the
victims almost fainted and threw up when he testified to a grand
jury.  They “don’t want to talk about, think about or remember,”
the humiliation, Assistant State Attorney General Joe McGettigan
told jurors in his opening statement. “But I’ll have to press
them for details.”  During a slideshow of the victims, Sandusky stared straight
ahead, and not at the pictures.  In his opening statement, defense lawyer Joseph Amendola
said defending Sandusky “is a daunting task” based on what
state officials suggest is “overwhelming evidence.”  “One of the keys to your perception is to keep an open
mind, to wait until all of the evidence is in,” he said.  ‘Worst Incidents’  Joe Paterno , Penn State’s head football coach, was fired in
November, as was university President  Graham Spanier , for
failing to act when accusations against Sandusky came to light
more than a decade ago. Paterno, who wasn’t charged with a
crime, died of cancer in January at age 85. Two other school
officials were charged for their handling of the matter.  “It certainly ranks among the worst incidents in the
history of American higher education,”  Terry Hartle , senior
vice president of the Washington-based American Council on
Education, which represents college presidents, said in a phone
interview. “It will take a while for Penn State to come to
terms with this. You never move beyond it. When you write the
history of  Penn State , this will certainly be the low point.”  Sandusky was initially accused Nov. 5 of crimes involving
eight boys. Prosecutors added more counts the following month
when two new accusers came forward. The counts against Sandusky
include 11 charges of involuntary deviate sexual intercourse,
each punishable by as long as 20 years in prison.  Maintains Innocence  Sandusky maintains his innocence. In papers filed in May,
Sandusky said allegations regarding four victims are so general
that he can’t adequately prepare a defense.  Amendola argued that charges involving two alleged victims
whose identities are still unknown to authorities should be
thrown out. Judge John M. Cleland, who is presiding over the
trial, rejected that request to dismiss charges June 8.  Prosecutors say Sandusky used the charity he founded in
1977,  The Second Mile , to recruit victims, “grooming” them
with gifts, trips to football games and money. The children
ranged in age from 10 to 15 when the alleged abuse occurred.  Second Mile served children with physical, emotional and
academic needs, according to its website. The charity said last
month that it would close and transfer its assets to a Houston-
based nonprofit.  Those assets more than tripled from 2002 through 2009,
according to Internal Revenue Service filings. Second Mile had
revenue of $2.7 million and net assets of $9 million, according
to its 2010 annual report. Sandusky was the group’s primary
fundraiser.  Began Touching  A 28-year-old man who met Sandusky through the Second Mile
charity told jurors today that the ex-coach began touching him
inappropriately in 1997.  The man said Sandusky invited him to play racquetball at
Penn State’s campus when he was a 14-year-old student at a local
high school. After playing, Sandusky would touch his genitals as
the two “soaped up” in the shower, the victim testified.  Sandusky enticed him into a long-term relationship by
giving the student sideline passes to Penn State football games,
taking him to golf outings and inviting him to family picnics,
the man said.  The abuse progressed to the point that Sandusky began
forcing him to perform oral sex, the man said. That occurred
more than 40 times during the five-year relationship, he added.  The man said as he matured, he distanced himself from
Sandusky and the coach would sometimes come over to his house
looking for him.  “Sometimes if I got home I would look outside and he’d be
there and I’d grab the phone and hide in the closet, just hoping
he wouldn’t find me,” the man told jurors  Second Mile  Second Mile supporters with ties to Penn State included
former university spokesman Steve Hevner and Dorothy Huck, the
wife of Penn State emeritus board trustee Lloyd Huck, who sat on
the charity’s state board.  In 2002, Penn State sold land for a new learning center to
Second Mile, according to documents submitted to the state as
part of charity’s application for a $3 million construction
grant. State officials dropped the grant in November after
Sandusky was charged.  With a main campus near  State College , Pennsylvania, Penn
State has an annual enrollment of about 87,000, according to its
 website .  ‘Modus Operandi’  According to testimony in a grand jury report released at
the time of Sandusky’s arrest, he allegedly abused boys in the
showers of a school athletic building and invited victims to
Penn State games, as well as into his home.  “He had a modus operandi in how he dealt with these
children,” Lisa Friel, former chief of the Manhattan District
Attorney’s sex crimes unit and now vice president of sexual
misconduct consulting for T&M Protection Resources LLC, a
security and investigations company. “It’s the typical MO of a
pedophile.”  Penn State has said it’s cooperating with investigations by
the state attorney general, the U.S. Education Department, the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  and federal
authorities.  ‘Deserve Punishment’  “The acts that Jerry Sandusky is accused of committing are
horrible and if proven true, deserve punishment,” the
university said in a statement June 5. “In deference to the
legal process, the university will not comment on specifics of
the ongoing legal case as it unfolds. We are hopeful, however,
that the case proceeds quickly and provides answers we are all
seeking.”  A jury of seven women and five men was selected to try the
case. At least six of the 12 have ties to Penn State or possible
witnesses, including a woman who has been a season ticket holder
since the 1970s, a man who’s currently a Penn State junior and a
man who is a retired Penn State soil science professor. Of the
four alternate jurors, three women and one man, two have ties to
Penn State.  “All have read and heard things about the case,” Cleland
told the jury today. “Some of you are football fans, some could
care less. Some are single, some are parents, some are
grandparents. You are, in short, a cross-section of Centre
County.”  After the firings of Paterno and Spanier in November,
police in riot gear used pepper spray to disperse thousands of
protesters chanting “We Are Penn State.” Since then, the
scandal’s effect on Penn State has been mixed.  Eighty-two percent of alumni had positive feelings about
the university, according to a survey Penn State released June
7. That was down from 91 percent in 2009, the last time the
school asked its graduates.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Gingrich in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  