-- Sanofi’s Lantus Had No Increased Cancer Risk in Studies
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-06-11T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/sanofi-s-lantus-had-no-increased-cancer-risk-in-studies.html
Sanofi’s best-selling diabetes
treatment Lantus leads to no increased cancer risk, according to
three studies that explored a possible link among patients after
one to three years of treatment.  The studies, which analyzed data on more than 615,000
patients, independently compared the use of Lantus with other
long-acting insulins in diabetics, the  American Diabetes
Association  said in a statement. The results are being presented
today at the organization’s annual meeting in Philadelphia. The
studies were conducted by researchers in five northern European
countries including Sweden and  Denmark , at  Kaiser Permanente  in
 California , and at the  University of North Carolina .  “The preponderance of evidence suggests that there is no
increased risk of cancer associated with relatively short-term
use of insulin,” John Buse, director of the Diabetes Center at
the  University of North Carolina School of Medicine , said in the
statement.  Lantus came under the spotlight in 2009 after four studies
suggested a possible increased cancer risk following use of the
treatment, a long-acting insulin analogue that is Sanofi’s best-
selling medicine. Those studies had yielded mixed results. The
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said last year it found no
conclusive evidence of a link. Another study presented today,
dubbed Origin, also showed no increased tumor risk from insulin
glargine, the chemical name for Lantus.  ‘Simple’ Results  “Independently from what region of the world, what
methodology you use, what specific type of cancer you look at,
the result is simple -- there is no increased cancer risk in
patients using glargine,” Riccardo Perfetti, vice president for
medical affairs at  Sanofi (SAN)  Diabetes, said in telephone interview.
Sanofi sponsored the studies, which were the largest analysis on
the possible link.  In the three studies, researchers looked at the association
between insulin use and all cancers and analyzed the individual
risks for breast, colorectal and prostate cancer, the ADA said.
Only one study, from  Kaiser Permanente , found a “suggestion”
of a relationship between Lantus and a “modest” increase in
breast cancer risk, but only in new insulin users, according to
the statement.  Such results “should be viewed cautiously, given the
relatively short duration of glargine use and the large number
of associations examined,” Laurel Habel, principal investigator
and research scientist at the Kaiser Permanente Northern
California Division of Research, said in today’s statement.  None of the other groups found any link. The Kaiser
Permanente and University of  North Carolina  studies examined
data on patients with a median duration of 1.2 years of glargine
use. The five-country study was based on an average duration of
3.1 years of Lantus use.  Lantus Sales  “Because the induction period for many carcinogens is
years to decades, additional follow-up of the Kaiser cohort and
others will be needed to determine whether glargine is
associated with an increase in breast, or other forms of
cancer,” Habel said.  Concern about a potential cancer link hasn’t slowed Lantus
 sales , which climbed 12 percent to 3.92 billion euros ($4.9
billion) last year. The medication generates more than three
times the revenue of Levemir, a competing product from
Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based  Novo Nordisk A/S. (NOVOB)   “We are expecting a minor positive to sentiment around
insulin safety” from the results of studies on Lantus and a
potential cancer risk, Jeffrey Holford, an analyst with
Jefferies International Ltd. in  New York , wrote in a May 29 note
to investors. Such concern “has not been a significant
commercial issue to date,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  