-- Saudi Arabia’s Naimi Says Maybe OPEC Needs Higher Quota
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-06-11T22:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/saudi-arabia-s-naimi-says-maybe-opec-needs-higher-quota.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al- Naimi said “maybe” there is a need for higher group production
from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Al-Naimi, who arrived in Vienna yesterday, responded to
questions from reporters after the Gulf Oil Review published a
report quoting him as saying in a June 2-3 interview that OPEC
might need to enlarge its collective production ceiling of 30
million barrels a day.  “I didn’t say it that way, I said maybe, be careful,” he
told reporters upon arriving at his hotel yesterday evening.
“Maybe more, maybe it can be anything, it can be less.”  OPEC, which supplies 40 percent of the world’s crude, meets
in Vienna on June 14 to decide on output levels for the second
half of the year.  Brent crude  futures fell to $98 a barrel
yesterday on al-Naimi’s comments and amid concern that  Europe ’s
debt crisis will derail global growth, curbing energy demand.
OPEC’s 12 members exceeded their quota by 1.9 million barrels a
day in April, according to the  International Energy Agency .  Ministers began arriving on June 10 in the Austrian capital
as oil prices retreat from a high of $128.40 a barrel reached in
March. All 20 analysts and traders in a Bloomberg survey
conducted last week expected OPEC to maintain its current group
output limit. A delegate from a Middle Eastern OPEC member state
also said yesterday that no change in the group quota is likely.  “This is a very fragile time for the global economy so I
don’t think they’re going to take any action,” said  Mike
Wittner , head of oil research for the Americas at Societe
Generale SA in  New York .  Saudi Clout  As the largest exporter, Saudi Arabia has more sway over
OPEC decisions than other members and al-Naimi’s comments
yesterday cast doubt over whether expectations for no change in
the quota will prevail.  Kuwaiti Oil Minister Hani Abdulaziz Hussain said some OPEC
members are concerned about oil-production levels and the
direction of crude prices. He spoke in  Kuwait  yesterday before
boarding a plane for Vienna. Brent crude has fallen 18 percent
since May 1.  The latest crude price decline has been severe and there’s
“tremendous” surplus in the market, Iraqi Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said yesterday.  Oil prices  at $100 to $120 are
“a reasonable and acceptable price index,” he said as he
arrived in Vienna.  Higher Ceiling  The Gulf Oil Review, which is published every two weeks by
Petroleum Policy Intelligence, a U.K.-based consultant,
yesterday reported al-Naimi as saying in an earlier interview
that: “Our analysis suggests that we will need a higher ceiling
than currently exists but, as usual, we will wait until we hear
the presentation from the secretariat concerning the outlook for
the international oil market, and the views of other member
countries.”  Bill Farren-Price is chief executive officer of the
research publication.  Demand for OPEC crude will rise in the second half of the
year, to 30.89 million barrels a day in the third quarter from
29.21 this quarter, according to the OPEC secretariat’s latest
monthly report. For the year as a whole, the average will be
29.98 million barrels a day, or about the same level as the
group’s current ceiling. OPEC’s next monthly report will be
published later today, while the IEA releases its monthly report
tomorrow.  Customer Demand  Customer demand is the main reason for  Saudi Arabia ’s
decisions on production levels, al-Naimi said.  “When customers come what do you do, they say we want oil,
what do you do, you give it to them,” al-Naimi told reporters
in Vienna yesterday.  Saudi Arabia has been trying to lower the price of oil as
slowing global economic growth counters concern of a supply
shortage following a ban by western nations on imports from
 Iran . The kingdom has been  pumping  more than 9.5 million barrels
a day since June 2011, the longest stretch for at least 11
years, according to data from the U.S. Energy Department. Brent
should drop to $100 as supply outweighs demand, al-Naimi said on
May 13 in Adelaide,  Australia , when prices were near $112.  The group’s ministers will hold closed-door discussions on
policy on the afternoon of June 14, followed by a press
conference. In tandem, delegates will also attend the OPEC
International Seminar, a June 13-14 conference that features
ministers and company officials as its speakers, including the
chief executives of Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Total SA.  Ministers may also discuss candidates to replace OPEC
Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri, whose second term expires at
the end of 2012. Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq and  Ecuador  have
submitted candidates. The other eight members of OPEC are
 Algeria ,  Angola , Kuwait,  Libya ,  Nigeria , Qatar, the United Arab
Emirates and  Venezuela .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Vienna at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net 
Nayla Razzouk in Vienna at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  