-- Saudi Offers Full July Supply; China Imports Record: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-06-11T10:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/saudi-offers-full-july-supply-china-imports-record-asia-crude.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. will provide
full contracted supplies to Asian customers in July, according
to buyers at five regional refiners who received notification
from the producer.  The world’s largest state-owned crude exporter is supplying
full volumes as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries prepares to meet in Vienna on June 14. OPEC will
maintain its official daily production ceiling at 30 million
barrels when its 12 members meet, all 20 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News said. The group has agreed to cuts at
every meeting in the past 10 years that coincided with a price
drop of more than 10 percent in the preceding three months, data
compiled by Bloomberg News show.  Saudi Aramco , as the company is known, will supply 100
percent of volumes agreed under long-term contracts, said the
people at refining companies in  Japan ,  Thailand  and  South Korea ,
declining to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
speak to the media. July will be the 32nd month in a row that
 Saudi Arabia  has not trimmed exports.  Brent oil has fallen 21 percent from this year’s high on
March 13 to $99.47 a barrel in  London  as of June 8 on mounting
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will derail global growth and
curb demand for energy.  China imported a net 25.3 million metric tons of crude in
May, or 5.98 million barrels a day, up 10 percent from April,
customs data showed yesterday. The previous record was 5.87
million barrels a day in February. Purchases cost an average of
$120 a barrel, compared with about $123 in April, the data
showed.  Tenders, OSPs  PV Oil Co.,  Vietnam ’s state-owned oil-marketing company,
offered to sell three cargoes of Chim Sao crude for loading in
August totaling 900,000 barrels, said two traders who
participate in the market, declining to be identified because
the information is confidential. Bids are due June 13.  Kuwait set the differential used to determine the official
selling price of its oil for shipment to  Asia  in July at a
discount of 15 cents a barrel to the average of Oman and Dubai
crude, up from a 60-cent discount for June, state-run Kuwait
Petroleum Corp. announced in a faxed statement yesterday.  Iraq’s Basrah Light exported to buyers in Asia next month
will sell at a premium of 30 cents a barrel, according to an e-
mail yesterday from the oil ministry’s marketing department.  Dubai Timespreads  Dubai crude’s  backwardation , when prices for prompt
supplies are  greater  than those for future delivery, rose 4
cents. Swaps for July were $1.30 a barrel more than September,
according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a London-based
broker.  The Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps, which measures the
European marker grade’s premium against the Middle Eastern oil,
fell 13 cents for July to $2.92 a barrel, according to data from
PVM. The August EFS was down 6 cents at $2.99.  Oman for July delivery rose $3.03 to $98.68 a barrel at
12:30 p.m. on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.  There were four Dubai partial cargoes sold today, according
to a survey of traders who monitor the Platts pricing window.
Phibro LLC sold the lots to Royal Dutch Shell Plc at $98.60 a
barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  