-- Serb President Urges Quick Cabinet Formation as Debts Mount
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-06-11T15:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/serb-president-meets-socialists-on-cabinet-as-debt-trap-nears.html
Serbian President  Tomislav Nikolic 
warned politicians they need to act quickly to form a government
as economic pressures in the Balkan nation build.  Nikolic, who was inaugurated at 5 p.m. in Belgrade today,
will choose any party able to form a majority after inconclusive
general elections on May 6. His Progressive Party, which won the
most seats, and the now-opposition Democrats of former
President Boris Tadic are seeking support in Parliament to
promote their own Cabinet plans.  The new government of the former Yugoslav republic, whose
economy was shredding during the Balkan civil wars of the 1990s,
is seeking to join the European Union and cooperate more with
 Russia  to pull the economy out of recession and cut debts.  “I will cooperate with any future government,” Nikolic
said in his inauguration speech. “I will build friendships
around the world because  Serbia  has no enemies. Serbia’s path is
the path of the future. In the interest of Serbia, I will
cooperate with everyone in the east and the west because Serbia
will only win and will have nothing to lose.”  Economic, Social Problems  Political leaders need to “start resolving accumulated
economic and social problems” as Serbia faces additional
difficulties in servicing its maturing debts, according to a
statement released from Nikolic’s office before the
inauguration. The country also “requires a plan that wouldn’t
further endanger the already bad standards of living.”  The country’s three-member Fiscal Council, which monitors
budget performance, warned on May 30 about a looming debt crisis
after the budget gap rose to between 7 percent and 8 percent of
gross domestic product and public debt approached 50 percent of
GDP.  The five-month  budget deficit  widened 80 percent to 89.3
billion dinars ($976.5 million), while the economy contracted
1.3 percent in the first quarter after a harsh winter paralyzed
many industries and the euro-area debt crisis damped exports.  A new government will need to resume IMF talks over a
suspended $1.3 billion precautionary loan arrangement earlier
this year when it became clear the country would slip on agreed
fiscal targets that include keeping a full-year gap under 4.25
percent of GDP.  Wooing the Socialists  Nikolic met today with the leader of the Socialist Party of
Serbia, which came third in the parliamentary elections and has
an agreement in principle to form a coalition with former
President  Boris Tadic , whose  Democratic Party  placed second. The
parties control 111 of the legislature’s 250 seats.  “It is definitely in Serbia’s interest that a new
government is formed as quickly as possible, but if talks with
the Democratic Party fail, we would then talk to another major
partner, the Progressive Party,” leader  Ivica Dacic  said in
Belgrade today, referring to Nikolic’s party, which won the most
votes and has 73 seats.  Kosovo Issue  The Socialists oppose Serbia’s recognition of  Kosovo , the
breakaway province which unilaterally declared independence in
2008. The party would favors a broader coalition to include the
United Regions of Serbia, a group led by  Mladjan Dinkic , who
held posts of the economy minister, finance minister and central
bank governor since the 2000 fall of former Serbian strongman
 Slobodan Milosevic .  Serbia’s political stalemate also threatens to complicate
the country’s march toward the European Union after it won
candidate status in March.  EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule, who attended
Nikolic’s inauguration, told the Belgrade newspaper Novosti
today that the bloc “strongly encourages” Serbia to continue
with policies that will allow the European Commission to
recommend the start of pre-accession talks.  EU Candidacy  Serbia became a candidate for EU membership on March 1
after fulfilling a series of conditions, including the capture
and transfer of  Radovan Karadzic , Ratko Mladic and  Goran Hadzic ,
the three most-wanted war-crimes suspects from the civil wars
that accompanied the breakup of the former Yugoslavia, to the
Hague-based International Criminal Tribunal for the Former
 Yugoslavia .  To prove its commitment to further reforms, the Balkan
needs to continue to overhaul the judicial system and fight
organized crime and corruption, while the “EU expects from
Serbia further progress in a dialogue” between Belgrade and
Pristina “with the aim of visible and sustainable relationship
improvement” and a policy “in the spirit of cooperation and
reconciliation in the region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 Msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  