-- Sharp Rises as Foxconn to Start Buying Panels Early: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-06-11T06:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/sharp-rises-as-foxconn-to-start-buying-panels-early-tokyo-mover.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  rose to its highest in a
month after saying Foxconn Technology Group, which has agreed to
invest in the Japanese television maker, will start buying its
panels earlier than it had planned.  The shares rose 8.2 percent to 424 yen, their highest since
May 2, as of the close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock
was the  second-best performer  on  Japan ’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average, which added 2 percent today.  Foxconn’s flagship  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  will
start buying from Sharp’s TV panel unit next quarter, three
months earlier than planned under an agreement in March, Sharp
President Takashi Okuda, 58, told reporters June 8. The large
LCD-making operation, in which Foxconn Chairman Terry Gou is
investing, will be removed from Sharp’s balance sheet next
month, said Okuda, who took charge in April.  Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays turned to
Foxconn, a Taiwanese assembler of electronics including Apple
Inc.’s iPad, for 133 billion yen ($1.7 billion) in investments
after posting a record annual loss in the year ended March 31.
Preparations for the investment by the Taipei-based company are
in the “final stage” and awaiting regulatory approval, Okuda
said last week.  The large LCD unit, based in Sakai near  Osaka , where Sharp
is based, will boost the utilization rate to 90 percent from the
fiscal second quarter to meet orders from Foxconn, Okuda said.
Output at the plant had dropped to about 30 percent of capacity
during the first quarter as inventories rose.  The two companies will also collaborate on selling
smartphones in  China  and are considering selling the LCD unit to
investors in a public offering, he said, without giving a target
date.  Foxconn agreed in March to buy a 9.9 percent  stake  in Sharp
through a new share offering scheduled to be completed by March
2013, according to a statement from Sharp at the time. Gou is
investing 66 billion yen in Sharp’s biggest LCD plant, a
separate transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid  at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net 6753 