-- Shell Races Apache to Exporting LNG From Canada to Asia
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-06-12T20:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/shell-races-apache-to-exporting-lng-from-canada-to-asia.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is pushing
ahead of competitors in the race to be the first exporter of
Canadian liquefied natural gas to Asia.  Europe’s largest oil company last week selected Calgary-
based  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  to build a $4 billion pipeline to carry
gas from northeast British Columbia to the Pacific coast.
Shell’s partners in the project are  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,  Korea Gas
Corp. (036460)  and PetroChina Co., which are based in the world’s three
largest LNG importing markets.  Companies in Canada, the third-largest gas producer, are
seeking new markets as North American output climbs and prices
trade near 10-year lows. About 62 percent of Canadian gas was
exported to the U.S. in 2010, according to the Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers, an industry group. Shell is
proposing one of at least four facilities that would liquefy gas
for shipment overseas by tanker.  The TransCanada tie-up makes The Hague-based Shell the
likely front-runner among the four, said Bob Schulz, a business
professor at the University of Calgary who specializes in the
Canadian oil and gas industry.  “Shell’s proposal is much stronger now with the
pipeline,” Schulz said last week in a telephone interview.
“What we’ll see is that Shell gets this up and running fast.
The first-mover advantage is really important.”  Four Groups  Joining Shell in the Canadian LNG race are groups including
those led by Houston-based  Apache Corp. (APA) , the U.K.’s  BG Group Plc (BG/) 
and Haisla Nation, an aboriginal group centered in Kitimat,
British Columbia, the coastal base for many of the proposed LNG
terminals.  If three of the proposed LNG facilities were built in
Canada, they would use about 1.3 trillion cubic feet a year of
gas at full capacity, the U.S. Energy Information Administration
 estimated  in September. At yesterday’s closing gas price in New
York, the output would be valued at about $2.96 billion,
according to a Bloomberg calculation.  At stake is early access to the Asian markets, where the
International Energy Agency projects gas demand will surge 50
percent in the next five years, driven by China’s expanding
economy.  Chinese consumption of the fuel has increased an average of
about 16 percent annually from 2000 to 2010 and will continue
expanding as much as 12 percent a year through 2020, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates. Japan is looking to
import more gas after idling its nuclear  power plants  following
the March 2011 earthquake and meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power plant.  Australia Rising  “You’ve got a situation of low gas prices and sluggish
demand in  North America ,” John Stephenson, who helps manage
C$2.7 billion ($2.6 billion) at First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto, said by telephone. “It begs the
question why we aren’t doing more to get it out the door.”  As the Canadian LNG projects inch forward, competition is
expanding abroad. Asian demand underpins $180 billion of
Australian ventures led by companies such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , putting Australia on course to overtake
Qatar as the largest LNG exporter by the end of the decade.  The U.S., meanwhile, is considering how much of its gas it
will allow to be exported. Companies may ship about 40 million
tons of LNG from the U.S. by 2022 as low-cost gas supplies from
shale deposits encourage sales to  Asia , Jen Snyder, a Boston-
based analyst at consultant Wood Mackenzie Ltd. said May 22.  ‘Deeper Pockets’  Canadian LNG projects have four to six years to begin
construction or they will lose out to global competitors, said
Shell Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser .  “If Canada wants to compete against those projects then
you have a certain time window,” Voser said in Calgary last
month. “It needs to get done this decade.” He said Shell
already controls almost a third of the global market for LNG,
which is produced by cooling gas to reduce its volume and make
it easier to transport by ship.  There may be room for two or three LNG projects in western
 Canada , given Japan’s changing views on nuclear power and
volatile  oil prices , said  Fadel Gheit , an oil and gas analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York. Shell has “much deeper pockets”
than some competitors and is “willing to spend billions of
dollars on LNG,” he said.  Emily Oberton, a Houston-based Shell spokeswoman, declined
to estimate how much its Canadian project will cost to build.
Start up is anticipated near the end of the decade, depending on
regulatory approvals and its partners’ final investment
decisions, she said yesterday in an e-mail.  ‘Early Stages’  Regulators already have granted licenses for two Canadian
projects: the Apache-led  Kitimat LNG , a $15 billion venture with
 Encana Corp. (ECA)  and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) ; and BC LNG, Haisla’s
venture with closely held Houston-based LNG Partners LLC.  BG’s planning for a potential LNG project is in the “early
stages,”  David Byford , a Houston-based company spokesman, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  A spokesman for Haisla wasn’t immediately available to
comment.  The difficulty for the Canadian projects is finding Asian
buyers willing to sign long-term contracts and then wait years
for the multibillion-dollar infrastructure to get built, said
Mary Barcella, a director of North American natural gas at  IHS
Inc. (IHS) , which provides business advice and analysis to energy
companies.  Stake Sale  “The early movers will definitely have an advantage,”
Barcella said in a phone interview last week. “As you build up
capacity, you start to get prices softening.”  To entice buyers, Encana said it and its partners are
considering selling a stake of as much as 20 percent of their
Kitimat project. Apache currently has a 40 percent stake, while
Calgary-based Encana and Houston-based EOG each have 30 percent.  John Roper, an Apache spokesman, declined to comment on
possible stake sales or contracts, and said it’s too soon to say
how the company will proceed with its Canadian project.  “We’ll make a decision when we have all our i’s dotted and
t’s crossed,” Roper said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Apache and its partners have said they want Asian buyers to
pay oil-linked prices, which  averaged  $16.66 per million British
thermal units of gas in the first quarter. Gas futures in New
York, which touched a 10-year low of $1.902 per million Btu in
April, averaged $2.50 per million Btu in the first quarter and
settled at $2.232 today.  “Pricing is the real challenge signing into these 20-year
contracts,” Greg Stringham, a vice president for CAPP, the
Canadian producers organization, said in a telephone interview.  Shell’s project has a “big” advantage over Apache’s
because its partners are also LNG buyers, Brian Youngberg, a St.
Louis-based analyst at  Edward Jones , said yesterday in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Youngberg said Shell also has an edge because of its
“history of being the global leader in LNG.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  