-- Singapore’s Exports Rose in May on Sales of Electronics
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 2012-06-11T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/singapore-s-exports-rose-in-may-on-sales-of-electronics-drugs.html
Singapore ’s export growth quickened
in May as shipments of electronics and pharmaceuticals increased.  Non-oil domestic  exports  climbed 3.2 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 1.7 percent gain in April, the trade
promotion agency said in a statement today. The median of seven
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 3 percent gain.  Growth in overseas shipments may be tempered in coming
months as purchasing managers’ indexes in export-dependent Asian
economies including  China  and South Korea signal manufacturing
is still slowing, forcing officials to evaluate whether to add
stimulus to spur growth. Policy makers across the globe are
girding for a deeper impact from  Europe ’s debt woes, with China
and  Australia  lowering  interest rates  last week.  “We continue to expect a pickup in activity in the U.S.
and China in the second half, which would bode well for
Singapore’s exports and production,” Vincent Conti, a
Singapore-based analyst at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd., said before the release. “The policy easing in China will
help that process along.”  Singapore’s  electronics shipments  by companies such as
Venture Corp. rose 3.9 percent in May from a year earlier, after
climbing 1 percent the previous month.  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, climbed 2.8 percent. Petrochemicals exports
increased 6.8 percent, while pharmaceutical shipments grew 0.3
percent after dropping a revised 7.1 percent in April.  Singapore’s non-oil  exports  slid a seasonally adjusted 2.1
percent last month from April, when they rose a revised 6.4
percent, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Sarina Yoo in Seoul at 
 kyoo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  