-- Six Myths About the Wisconsin Election
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-06-11T22:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/six-myths-about-the-wisconsin-election.html
Elections may not change everything,
but they certainly can change the way partisans spin. We’ve all
seen it: Before the vote, both sides agree on its crucial
importance. Afterward, the losing side declares it’s no big
deal.  Last week,  Scott Walker , the Republican governor of
Wisconsin, beat back an attempt to remove him from office in the
middle of his term. The political struggle since then has
concerned the meaning of that vote -- and enveloped it in a
series of myths.  Here are six of them:  1. Walker’s union-busting had nothing to do with the state
budget. To hear Walker’s liberal critics tell it, the governor
used the need to fix a budget hole as an excuse to go after
public-sector unions. As Mother Jones magazine  put it  last year,
“The unions are not to blame for the deficit, and stripping
unionized workers of their collective bargaining rights won’t in
and of itself save any money.” That’s why, according to those
critics, calling an election to remove Walker from office early
 was justified : He had  simply acted  to weaken his political
opponents.  No doubt, Walker did seek to weaken his adversaries by
removing what he considers unjustified privileges that state law
used to give them. But his labor-law reforms were also part of a
budget strategy: The state would give less money to local
governments and in return give them more power in bargaining
with the unions. Local governments that have been able to take
advantage of the new law -- because contracts expired after its
passage -- have been able to  avoid sharp cutbacks  in services.  2. Money is what saved Walker from the recall. Walker and
his allies outspent his opponents by a large margin -- and
that’s the whole story of this race,  says  Glenn Thrush in
Politico. Thrush didn’t count union spending in the race, which
was  considerable . But even if he was right, his logic would be
off. Assuming that the side that spent more money won because of
it risks reversing cause and effect. If Democrats, particularly
the national  Democratic Party , had thought they could win the
race, they would have spent more money. President  Barack Obama 
and his allies vastly outspent Senator  John McCain  and the
Republicans in 2008, but that’s not why Obama won: He raised a
lot more money than McCain because he was more popular, and was
considered likely to win.  It’s one thing to worry about campaign contributions
because the contributors might buy undue influence with
officials. It’s less plausible to worry that voters are easily
gulled by whichever side spends the most money -- especially in
a race, like this one, where most voters held strong opinions
about the issues for at least a year.  3. The  Supreme Court ’s decision in  Citizens United  -- which
affirmed the right of outside groups to spend unlimited amounts
on political campaigns -- rescued Walker. Greg Sargent, a
liberal blogger for the Washington Post,  claims  that Walker’s
victory “shows with crystal clarity that Republicans may very
well be able to successfully use the new, post-Citizens United
landscape to weaken the opposition in a structural way.”  Actually, Walker could legally receive unlimited
contributions -- including from out-of-state contributors, one
of his critics’ bugaboos --  before Citizens United . Before that
decision, the  Republican Governors Association  would have had to
run slightly different ads than they ran. But there’s no reason
to think the decision had a significant effect on the recall
race, much less a decisive one.  4. Walker’s win didn’t mean the public favored his labor
reforms. Katrina vanden Heuvel, the editor and publisher of the
Nation,  posted a message  on Twitter on election night saying the
“laser focus on collective bargaining” had been “muted.” Other
Walker critics have  pointed to  an Ohio referendum in which curbs
on public-sector unions were defeated as evidence that an up-or-
down vote on Walker’s reforms in  Wisconsin  would have yielded a
different outcome.  But the Wisconsin law exempted police and firefighters, and
their inclusion in the Ohio law was one of its opponents’ chief
criticisms. Without that argument at hand, Wisconsin Democrats
had trouble getting a majority of voters fired up about the
reforms -- as Graeme Zielinski, a Democratic spokesman,  admitted 
during the campaign.  Exit polls  found a small majority of voters
approved of Walker’s reforms.  5. The vote has no implications for November. The exit
polls showed Obama winning the state 51 percent to 44 percent,
and Wisconsin hasn’t voted for a Republican presidential
candidate since 1984. Obama supporters  have been   dismissing  the
idea that the state might go red this fall. The exit polls had a
Democratic skew, however, and Michael Barone  calculates  a much
closer matchup once it’s corrected. The state has clearly been
tilting less to the Democrats over time. In this year’s election
the state senate is expected to flip back to the Republicans. In
that case, Wisconsin will have a Republican governor, at least
one Republican senator and two Republican legislative chambers.
It would be crazy for Obama to take the state for granted, and
last week’s election ought to add to his worries.  6. Other Republican governors will follow Walker’s lead. On
one point, it’s conservatives who may be deluding themselves.
Many of them think that Walker’s triumph will now lead other
Republican governors to emulate him. They may be overestimating
that breed’s tolerance for criticism and controversy. A lot of
Republican governors are going to look at Walker’s experience
over the last two years and be glad he survived, but not eager
to get themselves  compared to Hitler  or go through a recall
campaign.  It’s still liberals who have most misinterpreted the recall
campaign. Their last-ditch defense of public-sector-union
privileges -- which President  Franklin D. Roosevelt   rejected  as
contrary to the public good -- couldn’t win the day in a state
with  as progressive a history  as Wisconsin.  Democrats are trying very hard to avoid the implications of
that fact.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Spain’s bank bailout  and
 Russia’s foolish military buildup;  Betsey Stevenson and  Justin
Wolfers  on  the death penalty and crime ; James Mann on  the Obama
administration’s Libya paradigm ;  Amity Shlaes  and David
Pietrusza on  Coolidge and persistence ; Peter J. Wallison on  the
trouble with liquidating failing banks .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Ramesh Ponnuru  at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  