-- Solazyme Climbs on Hope for Brazil Sugar Plant With Bunge
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-06-11T20:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/solazyme-bmove.html
Solazyme Inc. (SZYM)  reached its highest
price since April 16 on expectations that the company will meet
its planned targets in a joint venture with  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  to build
a facility in Brazil capable of producing 100,000 metric tons of
oil from sugar.  Solazyme , which makes oil products from genetically
modified algae, rose 8.9 percent to close at $12.10 a share in
 New York . The South San Francisco, California-based firm first
sold stock to the public in May 2011 at $18 a share.  “It’s a matter of execution and hitting milestones,
contracting out volume and scaling up,”  Michael Klein , analyst
at Sidoti & Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“There is an element of risk in the early stage nature of these
companies in the space. But compared with the general global
economic outlook, they are focused on bringing their first plant
up online.”  Solazyme trading volume was 1.08 million shares. That’s
more than double the full-day average of 433,000 for the past
year. When 2.5 million shares changed hands on April 3, it was
the most since 7.9 million on the company’s first day of
trading.  Solazyme shares have dropped 17 percent this quarter. While
the company is working to complete its commercial production
plants, Chief Financial Officer Tyler Painter said during the
first-quarter earnings conference call in May that he didn’t
expect to be cash-flow positive until the end of 2013.  Solazyme uses a technology to convert organic material such
as algae, a plant-like organism, into biofuels and specialty
chemicals. Klein has a buy rating on Solazyme, with a target
price of $21 a share.  “It’s a volatile space and there is lack of news flow, or
at least a delay,” he said.  Earlier this year, Solazyme and Bunge said their facility
in  Brazil  will be built next to Bunge’s Moema sugar-cane mill
and begin operating in the second half of 2013. The plant will
use Bunge’s sugar-cane supply and technology developed by
Solazyme to produce oil that may be sold to the fuel and
chemicals industry.  Solazyme has reduced risks associated with feedstock
supply, Patrick Jobin, an analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in a
note last month to clients, when he initiated coverage of the
stock with an outperform rating and a target price of $17 a
share.  Solazyme has signed an agreement with joint venture partner
Bunge for the first 100,000-ton plant in Brazil, he wrote.
Solazyme has also signed three memoranda of understanding with
other suppliers for 350,000 tons, thereby meeting 90 percent of
its 2015 estimated production capacity target of 500,000 tons.  Some events that may affect Solazyme include news flow on
the first large-scale plant in Brazil as construction begins,
securing financing for the first chemical plant and government
fuel programs certification, particularly for the U.S. Navy, he
wrote.  Genet Garamendi, a spokesman for Solazyme, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in  San Francisco  at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  