-- Spanish Bailout Shows Europe Still Doesn’t Get It
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-11T18:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/spanish-bailout-shows-europe-s-leaders-still-don-t-get-it.html
The challenge of bailing out  Spain ’s
banks is compelling  Europe ’s leaders to confront a question they
had hoped never to contemplate: How to prevent financial and
economic malaise from overwhelming the euro area’s fourth-
largest economy.  So far, their actions suggest they’re sticking with the
strategy they pursued in  Greece  and expecting different results.
They’d better think again.  The agreement last weekend to provide as much as 100
billion euros ($125 billion) to Spain’s banks shows Europe’s
leaders are at least beginning to recognize the magnitude of the
task. The amount matches some of the higher estimates of the
capital the banks will need to offset heavy losses related to
Spain’s real estate bust. As such, it might help inspire the
confidence necessary to slow the  flow of money  out of the
country and lower the odds of an all-out bank run, particularly
if Sunday’s Greek parliamentary elections set that country on a
path to leave the euro.  The deal, though, fails to address a fundamental issue that
has been spooking markets: This is the worst possible time for
Spain to borrow 100 billion euros. Under the agreement, any
amount used to bail out Spain’s banks will be added to the
country’s  government debt , potentially pushing it to a net 70
percent of gross domestic product, from about 60 percent today.
Spain is already struggling to sell its  government bonds  to
anyone other than its own banks; the sudden increase in debt
could completely cut it off from private financing.  Market Lockout  A market lockout would force Spain to ask the troika -- the
European Union, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund  -- for the money it needs to cover its budget
deficit, one of the euro area’s largest. If Greece is any
indicator, that assistance would come with tough conditions,
requiring Spain to exercise extreme austerity as its economy is
mired in recession and its  unemployment rate  is approaching 25
percent. The Greek fiasco shows how well that works.  Investors recognize the flaws in Spain’s bank bailout deal.
Even as the European stock market surged yesterday, Spain’s
borrowing costs rose. The yield on the 10-year bond stood at
6.47 percent Monday afternoon, up from 6.17 percent Friday.  Watching Spain’s predicament worsen is particularly galling
because the country is solvent and capable of solving its
problems. The government, on its own, is moving to put in place
the structural reforms needed to boost long-term growth
potential, such as making it easier to fire and hire workers. If
the economy returned to moderate growth in the coming years and
the government managed to turn its  budget deficit  into a small
surplus (not counting debt payments) by 2018, it could stabilize
its debt load.  To make Spain’s recovery possible, Europe must break the
link between the banks and the government. Instead of lending
the money for recapitalization to the sovereign, Europe’s
bailout funds should agree to inject it directly into the banks
-- as Bloomberg View has  advocated . In return, European
regulators should have a say in how management would be
punished, and whether dividends and bonuses would be paid, at
institutions that accepted the money.  That alone won’t be enough. The recapitalization should be
part of a larger process that would forge a common euro-area
approach to dealing with troubled banks, require private bank
creditors to share in losses, consolidate the debt of euro-area
governments and create a mechanism to stimulate growth in hard-
hit economies such as Spain. A euro-area  unemployment fund , for
example, could accelerate much-needed labor-market reforms and
boost  Spain’s GDP growth  by as much as 2.5 percentage points at
a cost of about 25 billion euros a year -- an expense that would
shrink as the added growth put people back to work.  Any of these actions would require the euro area to do
something its most powerful member,  Germany , has so far
resisted: accept collective responsibility for the currency
union’s survival. Spain’s predicament makes such a shift in
strategy imperative. If Europe’s leaders can’t commit, this most
recent gesture will only delay the inevitable, and the global
economy will suffer the consequences.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 