-- Spain’s IBEX 35 Erases 5.9% Gain on Concern Over Rescue
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-06-11T16:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/spanish-stocks-surge-most-in-six-months-on-bank-rescue.html
Spanish stocks fell, with the IBEX
35 Index erasing earlier gains of as much as 5.9 percent, on
concern a 100 billion-euro ($126 billion) bank bailout will
increase the nation’s debt burden.  Bank stocks also reversed a rally amid speculation some
firms will need to raise capital.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , the nation’s two biggest, ended
little changed, as did CaixaBank.  Banco Popular (POP)  SA dropped 1.9
percent and  Bankinter (BKT)  SA gained 0.5 percent. All five advanced
at least 9.5 percent in earlier trading.  The IBEX 35 lost 0.5 percent to 6,516.4 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in  Madrid . The benchmark gauge has retreated 24 percent so
far this year. The Madrid Stock Exchange Banks Index fell 0.1
percent, its first loss in eight sessions, trimming an earlier
advance of 7.7 percent.  “There are lots of questions and they haven’t interrupted
the vicious circle between banks and sovereign,” said Fabio Di Giansante, a  fund manager  at Pioneer Investments in Dublin,
which oversees $246 billion worldwide. “It’s a bit mixed, but
it’s clearly a step in the right direction.”  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos on June 9
requested the emergency loans from the euro area to shore up a
banking system that has more than 180 billion euros of bad
assets. The bailout loan will be channeled through Spain’s bank-
rescue fund, known as FROB, and extended to lenders that need
it.  Santander fell 0.3 percent to 4.84 euros. BBVA closed
unchanged at 5.15 euros.  CaixaBank (CABK)  added 0.3 percent to 2.36
euros.  Banco Popular  lost 1.9 percent to 1.69 euros. Bankinter
gained 0.5 percent to 2.50 euros, after increasing 15 percent.  A Separate Fund  The amount on offer is about 2.7 times the funds deemed the
minimum necessary for Spanish banks by the International
Monetary Fund in a report released June 8 and five times the
money requested by the Bankia group, the country’s third-biggest
lender, to cleanse its balance sheet.  “The size of the bailout was much bigger than expected by
the markets and that is certainly a positive in that it will
enable Spanish banks to absorb greater losses,” said  Trevor
Greetham , director of  asset allocation  at Fidelity Worldwide
Investment in London. “However, it does come with a tail in
that this capital injection has to go through  Spain ’s national
accounts, which means effectively the Spanish government is on
the hook for the bailout.”  Sovereign Yields  Spanish bonds fell, reversing earlier gains. Yields on 10-
year notes rose 29 basis points to 6.51 percent.  The statement on the aid didn’t make clear whether
financing will come from the European Stability Mechanism, the
region’s permanent support fund, which will probably start
operating in July, or the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility. If the cash were to come from the ESM, its treaty
provides it with preferred creditor status, junior only to the
IMF.  Stress tests and audits under way will lead to new
provisions and capital requests for weaker banks, analysts at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote in a report.  “While we welcome the announcement, there are many vital
missing items such as the final amount or conditions of the
loan,” JPMorgan analysts including Jaime Becerril in London
wrote. “Either way, we see high risk of dilution for banks’
equity holders as further provisions will follow and the
relationship between banks and the sovereign just became
closer.”  Investors now await the results of an independent audit
that, together with a report from the  International Monetary
Fund , will help determine which lenders will require the funds
and how much they’ll need.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  