-- Spanish Bonds Poised for ‘Relief Rally’ on Aid: Analyst Comments
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-06-11T06:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/spanish-bonds-poised-for-relief-rally-on-aid-analyst-comments.html
Fixed-income analysts comment on
 Spain ’s request for as much as 100 billion euros ($126 billion)
of European bailout funds to shore up its banking system.  Spain’s Economy Ministry said the financial assistance
won’t undermine the current stock of the nation’s debt and it
will continue to issue securities through regular auctions. The
analysts commented in investor notes received by e-mail.  Charles Diebel, head of market strategy at Lloyds Banking Group
Plc in London:  “The pressure on the Spanish sovereign should ease and
lower funding costs should be a substantial spin-off benefit.
The currency likewise should draw some support. But with the
Italian financial sector next in line this is no panacea.”  Francesco Garzarelli, co-head of macro and markets research at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.:  “The funding program of the Spanish government will not be
affected and the loan will come at much more advantageous terms
for the public sector than current market rates. The combination
of these two factors should reduce pressure on the Spanish
sovereign. All else equal, yields should decline, particularly
at the front end of the curve. A more sustained compression
requires a reduction of systemic fears surrounding the European
Monetary Union project.”  Laurent Fransolet, head of European fixed-income strategy at
Barclays Plc in London:  “The issuance program for Spain is relatively limited
going forward. This issuance, ex-bank recapitalization, can
probably be absorbed by domestic investors. We would not expect
much more additional liquidations of non-resident holdings.
Financial assistance through a long-term loan and at low
 interest rates  should also (somewhat) alleviate the public debt
dynamics.”  Harvinder Sian, a senior fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in London:  “The initial reaction to bailouts has typically been some mild
relief rally. That relief rally should however fade and then
reverse. Where we have a problem is in seeing a clear
stabilization of the debt numbers in Spain in a timescale that
will allow bond yields to come down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  