-- Spanish Banks May Be Offered EFSF Bonds, European Official Says
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-06-11T16:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/spanish-banks-may-be-offered-efsf-bonds-european-official-says.html
The euro region’s temporary bailout
fund may help Spanish banks by giving them bonds that could be
used as collateral, a step used to help Greek lenders since
April, a European official said.  Should  Spain  request help from the European Financial
Stability Facility, the fund could potentially transfer new
bonds to the country’s FROB rescue program, said the official,
who spoke on terms of anonymity because an application has yet
to be made. The program would then transfer the bonds to Spanish
banks in exchange for shares, while FROB would remain liable for
the debt. Greek banks have used the debt as collateral that can
be deposited at the  European Central Bank  to raise cash.  The move would allow the Spanish government to channel aid
directly to its bank rescue facility without drawing on market
issuance to recapitalize the lenders, said the official. Spain
has a narrow time window to consider tapping EFSF aid because
its permanent successor, the European Stability Mechanism, is
due to come into operation in July.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government said today
that Spain’s bailout program should draw from the ESM, which
offers preferred seniority in insolvency proceedings and is pre-
financed through its own cash reserves. Spain’s government said
current investors won’t be affected when the country applies for
aid, suggesting that it prefers tapping the EFSF, which was set
up in May 2010.  Maria Dolores Cospedal, the deputy leader of Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s  People’s Party , told reporters today
that it was still to be decided which of the two funds would be
used and the matter will be discussed at a European summit at
the end of June.  If Spain decided to apply for aid from the EFSF it would be
required to pay so-called market rates of interest for the help
and the bonds would have a different maturity to those bonds
offered to the Hellenic Financial Stability Facility in April,
said the official. The bonds ranged in maturity from six years
to 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  