-- Spanish Bailout Can’t Go to Unhealthy Banks, Finland Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-06-11T13:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/spanish-bailout-can-t-go-to-unhealthy-banks-finland-says.html
Finland  doesn’t want any of Spain’s
bailout to prop up unhealthy lenders and expects some troubled
banks to be split up as the northernmost euro member outlines
the conditions it understands are attached to the rescue deal
agreed on June 9.  “The unhealthy banks should be brought down or some banks
should be possible to chop up” so that the healthy parts
continue and the rest ends in a so-called bad bank, Finnish
Prime MinisterJyrki Katainensaid in an interview in  Norway  
today. “There must be a possibility to restructure the banking 
sector because it doesn’t make sense to recapitalize banks which 
are not capable of running.”  Spain this weekend became the fourth euro member to seek a
bailout as the bloc’s finance ministers agreed to provide as
much as 100 billion euros ($126 billion) to save the country’s
banks. Katainen said today his government is unlikely to need
collateral in exchange for its backing as the funds will
probably come from the permanent European Stability Mechanism,
which gives official creditors seniority over existing
bondholders.  “Hopefully the ESM will be in force” by the time  Spain ’s
bailout funds start flowing, Katainen said. “It would be
simpler and better in many ways and I have understood that the
majority of the euro-area countries would support using the ESM
instead of” the European Financial Stability Facility, which
entitles Finland to collateral, he said.  Several Weeks  Euro-area leaders have yet to announce which of the two
funds will be used to pay for Spain’s loan. Granting the bailout
“will take several weeks, as we need a very precise analysis on
the condition of Spanish banks,” Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said on June 9. The ESM becomes effective next month.  Germany ’s government today signaled it wants Spain’s rescue
to come from the permanent fund. German Finance Ministry
spokesman Martin Kotthaus called the ESM a “more efficient
option,” at a regular government briefing today in Berlin.  Katainen also said he considers the supervision of Spain’s
banks through the  International Monetary Fund , the European
Commission and the  European Central Bank  to be a precondition of
the nation’s bailout.  The weekend’s rescue agreement helped reduced the risk of
contagion in  Europe  as leaders for “the first time” managed to
throw together a deal “ahead of the curve,” Katainen said.  Still, Spanish 10-year bonds erased gains as yields soared
as much as 20 basis point to 6.41 percent today. Italian
borrowing costs on similar-maturity debt rose 17 basis points to
5.94 percent.  “I am afraid of instability but hopefully the market also
sees that a lot has been done,” Katainen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  