-- Sterlite Gains After Buying Larsen Unit Stake: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-06-11T09:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/sterlite-gains-after-buying-larsen-unit-stake-mumbai-mover.html
Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT) ,
owned by billionaire Anil Agarwal, rose to the highest level in
six weeks in Mumbai after saying it bought a stake in a bauxite
mining venture.  Sterlite, a unit of London-listed  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ,
said in an  exchange filing  it acquired a 24.5 percent stake in
Raykal Aluminium Co., a unit of  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , for 2
billion rupees ($36 million). It will buy the entire company in
phases for 18.1 billion rupees, it said.  Larsen, which holds a license to prospect for bauxite in
the eastern state of Odisha, is expected to seek a mining
license, said Abhisar Jain, an analyst at Centrum Broking Ltd.
in Mumbai. Vedanta’s bid to mine for the raw material used to
make aluminum has been thwarted by the government for
environmental breaches.  “Vedanta will benefit if Raykal secures a mining license
as it doesn’t have a raw material source of its own,” Jain said.
“The actual mining itself may take time but this is a good
beginning.”  Sterlite  shares  rose as much as 4.9 percent to 105.55
rupees, the highest since May 3, and traded at 104.50 rupees as
of 2 p.m. in Mumbai The key Sensitive Index gained 0.7 percent.  Sterlite was in August 2010 denied a permit to mine bauxite
from the Niyamgiri hills in Odisha after a government panel
found that the mining may jeopardize the livelihood of the
native tribes. Unit Vedanta Aluminium, owned 29.5 percent by
Sterlite, operates a 1 million metric ton alumina refinery in
Odisha.  Bauxite mining plans of Vedanta Aluminium was rejected by
the federal government in August 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  