-- Swiss Stocks Pare Advance in Final Hour of Trading
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-06-11T16:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/swiss-stocks-rally-ubs-credit-suisse-holcim-lead-gains.html
Swiss stocks  pared their gains in
the final half hour of European trading as optimism faded that
the euro area’s bailout of  Spain ’s banks will enable the
currency zone’s most indebted economies to recover.  Transocean Ltd. rallied as BMO Capital Markets raised its
recommendation on the  energy industry  to overweight.  The  SMI (SMI)  added less than 0.1 percent to 5,871.35 at the
close in Zurich, after earlier jumping as much as 1.5 percent.
The gauge of Switzerland’s biggest and most actively traded
companies has  dropped 7.4 percent since its 2012 high  on March
16 amid mounting concern that  Greece  will have to leave the
euro. The Swiss Performance Index rose 0.6 percent today.  “The general problems aren’t solved, but it is of course
an important step,” said Alessandro Fezzi, senior market
analyst at LGT Capital Management AG in Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland .
“It is at least some kind of relief in the  euro zone .”  The euro area offered Spain as much as 100 billion euros
($125 billion) to rescue its banking system, as the
Mediterranean nation became the fourth member of the currency
bloc to seek a bailout. The Spanish state’s bank-rescue fund,
known as FROB, will receive the money and channel it to lenders.  China’s exports  grew last month at more than double the
pace economists estimated. Overseas shipments climbed 15.3
percent from a year earlier, the customs bureau said yesterday.
that exceeded all 29 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  Transocean advanced 1.1 percent to 40.30 Swiss francs. BMO
raised its recommendation on the energy sector to overweight,
the equivalent of buy. The brokerage predicted that  oil prices ,
retail sales at gas stations and petroleum exports will all
grow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  