-- Syngenta Restricts Southern European Ties on Debt Crisis
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-06-11T09:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/syngenta-restricts-southern-european-ties-on-debt-crisis.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest
crop-chemical company, said it has dropped some banks and
customers in southern Europe and regularly brings cash out of
the region in response to the deepening debt crisis.  A steering committee meets weekly for contingency planning
for euro countries, with a focus on  Greece , Italy, Portugal and
 Spain , Chief Financial Officer John Ramsay said. The measures,
also taken in Ireland, include restricting sales to the most
trusted buyers and collecting bills more rigorously. At the same
time, the company is more prepared to offer discounts to ensure
cash payments, he said.  “Over the last period, we have cut back on the number of
customers we are dealing with, but we are committed to those
that we are dealing with,” Ramsay said in the interview on June
8 at Syngenta’s headquarters in  Basel .  Spain became the fourth country in the 17-member euro
currency union to seek an emergency bailout on June 9, with
emergency loans potentially totaling 100 billion euros ($126
billion) to shore up the banking system. Syngenta is applying
what it learned from financial crises in  Asia  and  Argentina  to
handle the credit crunch in Europe, Ramsay said.  Syngenta has annual sales of about $650 million to $700
million in Spain, Portugal and Italy combined, and less than $50
million in Greece, the CFO said. Worldwide revenue last year
totaled $13.3 billion. The manufacturer is sweeping  cash  out of
those countries and Ireland into its treasury pooling system
after collecting it from farmers and distributors, he said.  “There are banks we were using two years ago that we are
not now using,” Ramsay said, declining to name any. The
agricultural-chemical maker has become “very careful about”
working with certain  banks  in southern  Europe , though can’t
avoid the institutions entirely in high-revenue markets such as
Spain and Italy, he said.  The company is pushing its marketing teams to “really
choose their customers well,” and focus on “distributors who
are committed to agriculture” and most likely to complete sales
of Syngenta products, Ramsay said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  