-- Syrian Security Forces Killed in Clashes With Rebels
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-06-11T13:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/syrian-security-forces-killed-in-clashes-with-rebels.html
Six Syrian soldiers were killed and
another 26 were buried with official ceremonies, as attacks by
rebels across the country increased the pressure on President
Bashar al-Assad’s army.  The soldiers died in Deir Al-Zour in the country’s eastern
oil-producing region, and rebel fighters also attacked a
checkpoint in the village of Qusair in Homs, causing several
casualties, the U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights 
said in an e-mailed statement today. Four security personnel
died when an explosive device hit their vehicle in Idlib in the
north, while army helicopters attacked rebels in the city of al-
Rastan, the group said.  “The government is using helicopters more often now
because of major losses to its tanks,” Rami Abdel Rahman, the
head of the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in a phone
interview from the U.K. today.  Syrian government forces have failed to crush a 15-month
revolt in a crackdown that has left more than 10,000 dead,
according to United Nations estimates. President Bashar al- Assad, 46, is fighting to extend his family’s four-decade hold
on power. While more than 70 percent of Syria’s population is
Sunni, Assad and the ruling elite are in a minority, belonging
to an offshoot of the Shiite branch of Islam that predominates
in  Iran .  ‘Gravely Concerned’  Syrian security forces killed 52 people today, Al Arabiya
television reported, citing activists. Twenty six army personnel
were buried today, the official  Syrian Arab News Agency 
reported, while the Local Coordination Committees, an activist
group, said on its website that 53 people were killed by
security forces yesterday.  Kofi Annan , the United Nations special envoy for Syria, is
“gravely concerned” by the latest reports of violence coming
out of the country and the escalation of fighting by both
government and opposition forces. The cease-fire he brokered in
April has failed to stop the bloodshed.  Annan is “particularly worried about the recent shelling
in Homs as well as reports of the use of mortar, helicopters and
tanks in the town of Al-Haffa, Lattakia,” the UN said in an e-
mailed statement from Geneva today. “There are indications that
a large number of civilians are trapped in these towns.”  Heavy Weapons Supplied  UN military observers should be allowed into Al-Haffa
immediately and all parties should take steps to ensure that
civilians aren’t harmed, Annan said, according to the statement.
He warned at the UN on June 7 that  Syria  was headed toward a
future of “brutal repression, massacres, sectarian violence and
even all-out civil war.”  Heavy weapons are entering Syria through its borders with
Lebanon and  Turkey , Syrian ambassador in Moscow, Riad Haddad,
said in an interview on June 1.  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, ruled by
Sunni monarchies that are at odds with Syria’s mainly Shiite
ally, Iran, have publicly voiced support for arming the rebels.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  warned on June 9
that there was an “urgent” need for an international
conference, which Iran could attend, to pressure both sides of
the conflict. The international community remains reluctant to
use force, and  Russia  and  China  have opposed harsher sanctions
against Syria at the UN Security Council.  Lavrov is scheduled to visit Iran on June 13 to discuss the
situation in the  Middle East  and North Africa, “current
transformational processes in the Arab world and the state of
affairs in Syria,” the foreign ministry said in an e-mailed
statement today.  ‘More Like Bosnia’  “It is looking more like Bosnia in the 1990s, being on the
edge of a sectarian conflict in which neighboring villages are
attacking and killing each other,” Britain’s Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  said in an interview with  Sky News  yesterday. “It
is not so much like  Libya  last year, where of course we had a
successful intervention to save lives.”  Russia has cited the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s
military intervention in Libya as an example of what it sees as
the abuse of UN resolutions to bring about a change of
government. Assad has repeatedly blamed the violence on
terrorists and foreign forces seeking to undermine the state.  In the 1990s, U.S., British and French forces ultimately
intervened to end conflict in Bosnia-Herzegovina, scene of the
greatest carnage in the Balkan wars of that decade. The
bloodshed in Bosnia was the worst in  Europe  since World War II
and included the massacre of 8,000 Bosnian Muslims at Srebrenica
in 1995.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  