-- Most U.K. Stocks Drop as Optimism Over Spain Deal Fades
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-06-11T16:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/u-k-stocks-advance-on-spanish-bailout-chinese-exports.html
Most  U.K. stocks  declined, erasing
gains in the final half hour of trading, as initial optimism
over Spain’s bailout plan gave way to concern it won’t stop the
debt crisis from spreading.  Severfield-Rowen Plc dropped 6.9 percent after saying full-
year profit may be lower than forecasts. Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp. fell after  RBC Capital Markets  cut its
recommendation on the stock.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  gained 1.7
percent.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost less than 0.1 percent to 5,432.37
at the close in London, after earlier rallying as much as 1.9
percent. Fifty nine shares on the gauge slid, while 41 rose. The
FTSE 100 has retreated 8.9 percent from this year’s high on
March 16. The broader FTSE All-Share Index fell 0.1 percent and
Ireland’s ISEQ Index slid 0.2 percent today.  “There is a concern that this debt contagion could move
into Italy’s direction,”  Michael Hewson , a market analyst at
CMC Markets said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “This
bailout really hasn’t solved anything. There’s a question of
which bailout fund is it coming from, concern about  Spain ’s
contingent liabilities, the lack of growth, the rising
unemployment. All of these, none of them have been resolved.”  The volume of shares changing hands on FTSE 100 companies
was 5.6 percent more than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Spain Bailout  Spain asked euro-area governments over the weekend for as
much as 100 billion euros ($126 billion) to help shore up its
banking system, becoming the fourth euro member to seek a
bailout since the debt crisis began almost three years ago. The
rescue request followed weeks of escalating concern that bad
loans at Spain’s banks might overwhelm public finances.  The bailout loan will be channeled through the state’s
bank-rescue fund, known as FROB, and extended to lenders that
need it. It is equivalent to about 10 percent of Spain’s gross
domestic product. FROB debt counts as public debt, which
amounted to 69 percent of GDP last year.  U.K. indexes of business confidence and job prospects
dropped in May, indicating the economy will weaken and
employment may fall later this year, BDO LLP said.  A gauge of company sentiment fell to 95.5 from 96.2 in
April, the accountancy firm said. An employment measure declined
to 94.9 from 95.5. A reading below 95 indicates contraction.  Chinese Trade  China ’s  exports  rose in May at more than double the pace
analysts estimated. Overseas shipments climbed 15.3 percent from
a year earlier, the customs bureau said yesterday, exceeding all
29 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Severfield-Rowen fell 6.9 percent to 153 pence, the lowest
since October. The supplier of structural steelwork to  Heathrow
Airport  and the Shard skyscraper in  London  said full-year profit
may be lower than expectations, citing operational overruns of
1.6 million pounds on two “complex projects” in the U.K.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a metal producer in
 Kazakhstan , fell 4 percent to 406.8 pence. The stock was cut to
underperform, meaning investors should sell the shares, from
sector perform at RBC Capital Markets.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES) , the world’s largest primary silver producer,
slid 3.2 percent to 1,396 pence.  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest publicly traded hedge-
fund manager, dropped 3.9 percent to 76.7 pence.  Cove, BP  Cove Energy Plc (COV) , the U.K. explorer with a share in gas
fields off  Mozambique , increased 1.9 percent to 267 pence, its
highest price since it sold its shares to the public in May
2005, after it announced additional gas finds at its Atum well.
The well pushes total discoveries in the block to between 30
trillion and 60 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas resources
or three to six times the U.K.’s existing reserves.  BP Plc (BP/) , Europe’s second-largest oil company, climbed 1.4
percent to 414.90 pence. The company hopes to settle penalties
and damages from the Deepwater Horizon spill for less than $15
billion, the Financial Times reported on June 8, citing a person
familiar with the matter.  Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, rose 1.7 percent
to 28.50 pence, gaining for fourth day. Schroders Plc added 1.3
percent to 1,246 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  