-- U.K. Investors Fidelity, Hermes Push Banks to Change Bonus Plans
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-06-11T12:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/u-k-investors-fidelity-hermes-push-banks-to-change-bonus-plans.html
U.K. investors  Fidelity Worldwide
Investments  and Hermes Equity Ownership Services say banks
should award shares vesting over longer periods and make
dividends a primary part of executives’ income.  Long-term incentive plans should stipulate that shares vest
when an executive leaves the company, creating better alignment
with shareholders’ interests, according to Dominic Rossi, chief
investment officer of equities at Fidelity, the world’s second-
biggest mutual fund manager.  “Career shares, which require an executive to retain
equity that has vested until he or she leaves the company,
should become a standard element of LTIPs,” Rossi said. “They
align the executive to the long-term wealth creation of the
company and they highlight to management the value of a dividend
stream.”  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Aviva Plc (AV/) ,  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI)  and  Prudential
Plc (PRU)  were among British firms to come under pressure in a surge
of protest from investors against their pay reports in the past
two months. Shareholders have criticized the pay, the complexity
of share-based compensation plans and bonus payments for
departing executives.  “This is not only a reward for failure but a failure of
the reward system and is unacceptable,” Hermes, which advises
clients with 89 billion pounds ($138 billion) of assets under
management, said in a discussion paper advocating changes to
executive pay. “Long-term incentives should be longer term.
Three years is used as a proxy for long term but this is at best
a medium-term measure, particularly in larger companies.”  HSBC, Barclays  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank, last year
implemented a pay plan that allows shares to vest over five
years rather than the three years more commonly used and could
be withheld during that time frame. Rossi cited London-based
HSBC’s compensation structure as a model for the rest of the
industry in an interview with the Financial Times, which
reported the story earlier.  Barclays, which paid Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond
12 million pounds last year, had the biggest investor rebellion
of any bank this year with 27 percent of shareholders voting
against its pay plans. Diamond and Finance Director Chris Lucas
earlier agreed to cut their deferred bonuses for 2011 until the
London-based bank improves profitability.  The pay dispute at Aviva, the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer, cost CEO  Andrew Moss  his job. Moss stepped down five
days after losing a pay vote at the London-based firm’s annual
general meeting. The company had planned to raise his salary 5
percent to 1 million pounds even though he presided over a 60
percent fall in the share price during his five-year tenure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  