-- U.K. Police Worried About Foreign Soccer Fans in England Shirts
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-11T15:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/u-k-police-worried-about-foreign-soccer-fans-in-england-shirts.html
U.K. police in Ukraine to monitor
 England  supporters for the team’s opening European Championship
match with  France  today said they’re worried about other
countries’ fans donning the team’s shirts and causing trouble.  “We have worked very hard to make sure that England fans
are policed appropriately and if England fans do engage in
disorder that we know about it and are able to deal with that,”
Assistant Chief Constable Andy Holt, leading a 14-member British
police contingent, told reporters outside the Donbass Arena.
“What I don’t want to do is have England fans mislabeled, and
misidentified because it’s some other nationality wearing
England shirts.”  Between 3,000 and 4,000 fans have bought tickets through
the English soccer federation’s official allocation. Others have
arranged to travel to European soccer’s top national team
competition independently. The numbers are far lower than the
40,000 fans that traveled to  Germany  for the 2006  World Cup , the
last European-based tournament England qualified for.  English hooliganism that hampered tournaments including
the 1998 World Cup and Euro 2000 has subsided as U.K.
authorities prevent known troublemakers from traveling to watch
the national team’s games.  At the 2004 European Championship about 400 of the team’s
followers clashed with Portuguese riot police on successive
nights in the Algarve resort of Albufeira. England fans didn’t
cause serious trouble at the World Cup in Germany.  Soccer Fans  The popularity of England’s Premier League has helped boost
the national team’s following in eastern  Europe , fans said.  Greg Tashchiyan, 23, said he came by road with 25 friends
from Rostov-na-Donu, about 250 kilometers from Donetsk.  “Petrol prices are so cheap so there will be maybe as many
as 10,000 people from  Russia  for this game,” Tashchiyan, a fan
wearing a white England shirt, said in an interview as he waded
through a fountain yards from the 49,400-seat stadium.  Other Russians said they’d traveled from Sevastopol and
Krasnodar. Another England-supporting group made a 1,000-
kilometer (620 miles) trek from Belarus for today’s game.  “There are many Russians who support English clubs so if
you support an English club then automatically you’ll be
supporting the English team,” Tashchiyan said.  Last week European soccer’s governing body opened an
investigation after a group of Russian fans attacked stewards at
their team’s opening game against the  Czech Republic  in Wroclaw,
 Poland . Four stewards required hospital treatment. Anti-racism
campaigners said Czech defender Theodor Gebre Selassie was the
target of “monkey chants” during the game.  “So you can imagine we will be very careful to ensure that
if there are any problems, we identify the provenance of who we
are dealing with,” said Holt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Donbass Arena in Ukraine via the London
newsroom on   tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  