-- U.K. RICS Index of House Prices Remained Negative in May
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/u-k-rics-index-of-house-prices-remained-negative-in-may.html
A U.K.  house-price index  stayed
negative in May as the crisis in  Europe  and the end of a  tax
exemption  for first-time buyers limited demand, the  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said.  The gauge rose to minus 16 from minus 19 in April, which
was a six-month low, London-based RICS said today, citing a
monthly poll of property surveyors. A reading below zero means
more surveyors saw price drops than gains last month. A measure
of  demand  fell to a four-month low.  The U.K.  economy  has slipped back into a recession as the
debt crisis worsens in Europe, where  Spain  was forced to seek
aid for its banking system. The  Bank of England  held its  bond-
purchase plan  at 325 billion pounds ($505 billion) last week and
its key  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent as policy
makers assess inflation risks in the economy.  “Ongoing economic instability in the U.K. and overseas has
continued to undermine  consumer confidence ,” Peter Bolton King,
a spokesman for RICS, said in the statement.  A measure of new buyer inquiries dropped to minus 1 from 5,
the lowest since January, and a gauge of sales expectations fell
to 9 from 14, the report said. Over the past three months, the
price indexes for 11 of 12 regions tracked by RICS showed
declines, with  Northern Ireland  showing the lowest measure, at
minus 54. The exception was London, where the gauge was plus 44.  Tax Boost  Demand for homes was boosted earlier this year as first-
time buyers took advantage of a tax exemption on purchases of
homes costing less than 250,000 pounds before it ended March 24.
The expiry has created “a clear loss of momentum” in the
 property market , RICS said.  Other property-price measures have shown improvement in the
past month.  Nationwide Building Society  said values rose 0.3
percent in May, while property researcher Hometrack said prices
increased 0.2 percent. Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s Halifax
division said prices rose 0.5 percent, though the market may
stagnate in the second half due to the “ongoing tough economic
environment.”  In a separate report, KPMG LLP and the Recruitment and
Employment Confederation said their index of hiring of full-time
staff dropped to a five-month low of 51 in May from 51.9 in
April. An index of hiring of temporary workers slipped to 47.5,
the lowest since July 2009, from 48.2. Readings below 50
indicate contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  