-- U.S. Exempts India, South Korea From Iran Oil Sanctions
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-06-12T11:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/u-s-exempts-seven-countries-from-iran-oil-sanctions-1-.html
The U.S. added seven economies to
the list of nations qualifying for an exemption from financial
sanctions on Iranian oil imports, penalties intended to pressure
 Iran ’s leaders to abandon any nuclear weapons ambitions.  India , South Korea, Turkey, South Africa, Malaysia, Sri
Lanka and Taiwan will not be penalized by the U.S. for
continuing to import oil from Iran over the next six months
because they have proven they “have all significantly reduced”
the volume of the oil they buy from Iran, Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said in a statement yesterday.  Oil prices fell for a fourth day in New York on speculation
that the U.S. exemptions will limit the risk of global supply
disruptions. Crude for July delivery dropped as much as 2
percent to $81.07 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange, extending its loss this year to 17 percent.  China, the leading importer of Iranian crude in the first
half of last year, and  Singapore  were not granted exemptions.
U.S. officials familiar with the decision said talks are
continuing, and they may win exemptions before the June 28
deadline for the sanctions to take effect. China imports crude
from Iran based on its economic needs and has told the U.S. that
its actions are “completely fair and transparent,”  Liu Weimin ,
spokesman at the Foreign Ministry, said at a briefing today.  ‘Completely Lawful’  “China didn’t breach UN Security Council resolutions or
cause harm to the international community or other countries,”
Liu said. “We believe  China ’s crude oil trade is completely
lawful and reasonable.”  Singapore is engaged in “constructive discussions” with
the U.S. and has asked its financial institutions to more
closely monitor transactions involving Iran, according to a
statement from the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs . While Singapore
enforces only Security Council sanctions, “companies and
financial institutions know they must consider the impact of
unilateral sanctions on their commercial decisions,”  it said.  Singapore imported 1 percent of its crude from Iran in the
last two years and none in May, according to the statement.
Iranian oil accounted for about 776,000 tons of Singapore’s
crude and condensate imports between 2010 and 2011, according to
Bloomberg calculations. For the two-year period, the city-state
imported 68.1 million tons of crude and 9.5 million tons of
condensate, according to data from the trade ministry.
Condensate is a light oil that refiners turn into petrochemical
feedstock and clean fuels.  India and  South Korea  were the third- and fourth-largest
buyers of Iranian oil in the first half of last year, according
to the U.S. Department of Energy.  ‘Decisive Message’  “By reducing Iran’s oil sales, we are sending a decisive
message to Iran’s leaders: until they take concrete actions to
satisfy the concerns of the international community, they will
continue to face increasing isolation and pressure,” Clinton
said.  Analysts interviewed yesterday said that whether China, the
world’s largest energy consumer, ultimately reduces its
purchases of  Iranian oil  may not make much difference in the oil
revenues earned by the Persian Gulf state, since every other
major buyer has substantially scaled back imports.  “As an increasing number of Iranian customers cut back, it
becomes less important that Beijing follow suit,”  Trevor Houser ,
an energy analyst and partner at the Rhodium Group, a New York-
based economic research firm, said in an interview. “Faced with
fewer options to market its crude, Tehran will have to offer”
significant discounts or attractive payment terms “to keep
Chinese and other buyers at the table.”  Mitigate Risks  Houser said there’s also an advantage to oil markets if the
Chinese continue to buy Iranian crude. “Keeping some Iranian
oil on the market can help mitigate the risk of a rebound in  oil
prices  as we head into the summer driving season,” he said.  In addition to the seven economies named yesterday, the U.S.
granted renewable, 180-day exemptions on March 20 to  Japan  and
10 European Union nations. The EU collectively was the second-
largest buyer of Iranian oil in the first half of 2011. As a
single country, Japan ranked second, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  Under the U.S. law enacted Dec. 31, nations have until June
28 to demonstrate they have “significantly reduced” the volume
of their Iranian crude purchases. If they fail to do so, their
banks that settle oil trades with Iran will be cut off from the
U.S. financial system.  No U.S. Definition  President  Barack Obama ’s administration hasn’t defined what
constitutes a significant reduction, and three U.S. officials
said they were weighing a number of factors, including each
nation’s energy needs and ability to switch to alternative
sources. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to
discuss internal deliberations.  The sanctions are part of a coordinated campaign by the U.S.
and EU to ratchet up economic pressure on Iran over its disputed
nuclear program.  U.S. officials pointed yesterday to figures from the
 International Energy Agency  in Paris showing a decline in Iran’s
oil exports as proof that the sanctions campaign is working. The
IEA reported that Iran exported 2.5 million barrels of crude a
day last year; the independent agency estimates that figure has
dropped to between 1.2 million and 1.8 million barrels per day,
U.S. officials said.  Oil has declined 22 percent since the start of May as
concerns over supplies and potential military conflict have
diminished. The U.S. is one of six world powers including China,
Russia, the U.K., France and Germany that are engaged in
negotiations with Iran over its nuclear programs.  Price Premium  “There was a definite Iran premium in price, but
increasingly the Saudis and others have ramped up production,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a  New York- 
based energy hedge fund. “That has really neutralized the
worries that arose over sanctions.”  Iraq boosted output by 8.7 percent this year through May to
2.935 million barrels a day, while Libya increased production to
1.4 million barrels a day, the highest since January 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Saudi Arabia pumped 9.9
million barrels a day in May, up 16 percent from 8.5 million
barrels a day in March, the data show.  U.S. Senator Robert Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat who was
one of the principal sponsors of the legislation that imposed
financial sanctions on Iranian oil imports, said in an interview
that the administration’s announcement “sends a message to Iran
that our intent is to fully implement these sanctions, and
delays and half-measures by Iran that don’t address the totality
of Iran’s nuclear weapons program will be met with even further
action by the United States.”  China Issues  Iran is the No. 2 producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, and earns more than half of its government
revenue from oil sales, according to the  International Monetary
Fund .  Taiwanese, Korean and Turkish oil imports from Iran since
the sanctions law was enacted are down 20 percent, 10 percent
and 6 percent year-on-year respectively, according to each
country’s customs data and various tanker tracking services
monitored by Rhodium, Houser said.  China didn’t receive an exemption even though, he said, it
cut imports from Iran by 30 percent in the same period. “That’s
because the drop in Iranian shipments to China was the result of
a commercial price depute, not a decision by Beijing to buy less,
and that price dispute has since been solved,” he said.  The reason China was not included “may be because the
Obama administration is unsure about China’s intentions with
respect to future crude purchases from Iran,” said Erica Downs,
a specialist on Chinese energy at the  Brookings Institution , a
policy center in  Washington .  Public Indications  “There have not been any public indications from Chinese
officials or oil executives that they intend to reduce oil
purchases to support U.S. sanctions,” she said in an interview
from Shanghai. “It would be difficult for the Obama
administration to justify an exemption for China at a time when
China’s crude imports from Iran are rising, even if they are
still below last year’s average.”  Mark Dubowitz , director of the Iran Energy Project at the
Foundation for Defense of Democracies in Washington, said in an
interview that China might still earn an exemption.  Dubowitz, who has advised the administration and Congress
about sanctions, said it’s his understanding that if China
extracts deep discounts from Iran on the crude it buys from the
Persian Gulf state, it might get a waiver for helping to achieve
the end-goal of the sanctions: depriving Iran of its main source
of revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  