-- U.S. Drug Boom Seen Improving Wockhardt’s Profit Margins
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-06-12T10:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/u-s-drug-boom-to-improve-wockhardt-s-margins-corporate-india.html
Wockhardt Ltd. (WPL)  Chairman Habil Khorakiwala says U.S. sales growth and a record profit margin
may lure more investors to his company, the world’s top
performing major generic drugmaker this year.  The Mumbai-based firm forecasts revenue from the biggest
 market  for prescription medicines to increase 25 percent
annually in the next few years, Khorakiwala said in an interview
yesterday. Wockhardt earned about 41 percent, or $375 million,
of its sales in the U.S. in the 12-months ended March 31, he
said.  Wockhardt’s  shares  have more than tripled this year as the
company sells assets to revamp $687 million of debt.  Israel ’s
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest generic
drugmaker, is little changed. Khorakiwala, 69, plans to
introduce as many as 15 copies of drugs each year in the U.S. to
tap revenue from treatments losing patent protection.  “We are gaining market-share everywhere with our portfolio
of 70 products,” Khorakiwala said, predicting a “tectonic
shift in terms of the perception of our company in the next
three years.”  Wockhardt, set up in 1967, fell 0.3 percent to 863.1 rupees
in Mumbai after climbing as much as 1.2 percent. Five of the six
analysts covering the insulin-maker recommend a buy, while one
has a hold rating, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 BSE India Healthcare Index (BSETHC)  has risen 12 percent this year.  Khorakiwala, who has been collecting art for three decades,
 controls  about 74 percent of the company. The family has pledged
64 percent of the firm as collateral to borrow funds, according
to exchange filings.  Nasal Spray  Wockhardt began rallying after the firm on Jan. 10 said its
copy of GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s Flonase nasal spray was approved
by the U.S. Food & Drug Administration for sale in the North
American nation.  The treatment may generate $43.5 million of sales for
Wockhardt in the year that began April 1, according to Ventura
Securities Ltd. Wockhardt introduced 6 products in the world’s
biggest economy last fiscal year, according to an  investor
presentation .  Sales in the U.S. helped the company widen its earnings
margin before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to
31.2 percent in the year ended March 31, compared with 24.2
percent in 2011. Profit may more than triple to 11.6 billion
rupees ($208 million) this fiscal year, according to a median
 estimate  of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit margins may improve further as the company gets
exclusive rights to sell copies of some medicines in the U.S.,
according to a report by Finquest Securities Pvt. About 72
medications with annual sales of at least $100 million are
expected to lose patent protection in the U.S. in the next four
years, according to Bloomberg Industries.  ‘Steady Stream’  Rivals are also benefiting from the drug market opening to
generic competition.  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) ,  India ’s biggest
pharmaceutical maker, became the first company to sell copies of
the anti-hypertension medicine Lipitor and probably earned $300
million in sales in the first three months of the year,
brokerage IIFL Ltd. said in a May 10 report.  Wockhardt’s shares are a “strong buy” because they are
cheap compared with local rivals, said Anand Bagaria, an analyst
with Finquest. Wockhardt  trades  at 8 times fiscal 2013 earnings,
compared with 15.6 for Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. and 16.8
for Lupin Ltd., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For the company to maintain the rally, Wockhardt will have
to demonstrate that relying on exclusive sales of generic drugs
will provide a steady stream of revenue, said Surya Narayan Nayak, head of research at Networth Stock Broking Ltd.  “Only when there are steady earnings for four to six
quarters will the market have faith in this stock,” Mumbai-
based Nayak said in a telephone interview. “Otherwise it will
keep trading at a discount to its peers.”  Debt Dispute  The company’s move to resolve a dispute with  bondholders 
has also aided in the stocks advance. In 2009, Wockhardt agreed
to extend maturities of some of its debt until 2018 and capped
the rate of interest at 10 percent, according to a note to
investors. It also restructured $250 million loans from European
lenders.  Holders of its foreign currency convertible bonds that
matured in October 2009 were offered the option to swap them for
preference shares redeemable in 2018, or receive a discounted
single payment.  Some bondholders, including U.S. hedge fund QVT Financial
LP filed a petition in the Bombay  High Court  to liquidate the
company. The court on Oct. 11, ordered Wockhardt to pay 3.15
billion rupees in five installments to the remaining
bondholders. The last installment of 1.6 billion rupees is due
in August.  Asset Sale  The drugmaker in August agreed to sell its nutrition
business to Danone for 250 million euros ($314 million), and
plans to use the funds to pay its debt, Khorakiwala said. The
sale includes the Dexolac, Farex and Protinex brands and is
awaiting regulatory approval from Indian authorities.  “Investors who bought this stock last year at this time
have made loads of cash,” Finquest’s Bagaria said. “There was
a lot of negative sentiment associated with the company’s debt
troubles and that’s what made it so cheap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  