-- U.S. Home Sales to Foreigners Rise as Low Prices Draw Investors
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-06-11T19:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/u-s-home-sales-to-foreigners-rise-as-low-prices-draw-investors.html
The dollar volume of U.S. homes sold
to foreign buyers rose 24 percent in the 12 months through March
as investors from  Canada ,  China , India,  Mexico  and the U.K. took
advantage of low prices and favorable exchange rates.  Foreign buyers spent about $82.5 billion in the period, up
from a revised estimate of $66.4 billion a year earlier, the
National Association of Realtors said today. That accounted for
4.8 percent of the $928.2 billion U.S. market for home sales,
the organization said in a report from  Washington .  “Low housing prices, a good inventory condition and
increased buying power with today’s exchange rates help attract
international clients,” Moe Veissi, president of the National
Association of Realtors, said in a statement.  U.S. home  prices  were 35 percent below their July 2006 peak
as of March 31, the most recent data available, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller index of values in 20 cities. Sales of
 previously owned homes  rose 10 percent in April from a year
earlier as U.S. consumers took advantage of the decline in
prices and record-low  interest rates , the Realtors group said.  Arizona ,  California , Florida and Texas accounted for 51
percent of the purchases by foreigners, according to today’s
report. Florida has been the fastest-growing destination of
choice, accounting for 26 percent of overseas transactions.
California was second with 11 percent and Texas and Arizona
accounted for 7 percent each.  Canadians made 24 percent of international deals, followed
by Chinese buyers with 11 percent and Mexicans with 8 percent.
India and the U.K. each accounted for 6 percent of purchases.  Wealthier Buyers  International buyers paid an average $400,000 compared with
the $212,000 average of all deals in the U.S. Overseas clients
are typically wealthier and looking for a specialized property,
such as a home suitable for multigenerational living or a
vacation house, according to the report.  About 62 percent of international deals were made with cash
because the buyers lacked a credit history or lenders don’t
offer mortgages for overseas purchases, the Realtors said.  International sales were equally split between recent
immigrants and foreigners who live permanently outside the
country, according to the report, which was based on a survey in
April of 1,745 respondents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  