-- Commerce Chief Suffered Seizure, California Car Accidents
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-06-11T18:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/u-s-cabinet-official-being-investigated-in-hit-and-run.html
U.S. Commerce Secretary  John Bryson 
was treated for a seizure after driving his luxury car into two
vehicles in separate  Los Angeles  County accidents five minutes
apart during the weekend.  Bryson, 68, was found unconscious at the wheel of his  Lexus 
about 5:10 p.m. Los Angeles time on June 9, after the second of
two collisions, police in Los Angeles  said  today. He
suffered a seizure, and was taken to a hospital where he remained
overnight, Jennifer Friedman, a Commerce Department spokeswoman,
said today in a statement.  “He was released and has returned to Washington,” she
said.  “The investigation is ongoing.” Police said they are
investigating felony hit-and-run charges in the case.  Bryson leads an agency under pressure to deliver on
President Barack Obama’s goal of doubling annual U.S. exports to
$3.14 trillion by the end of 2014 from $1.57 trillion in 2009,
according to a White House report to Congress last year. He took
the post eight months ago after spending more than two decades
at Southern California utilities, and was chairman and chief
executive officer of  Edison International (EIX)  until 2008.  White House Chief of Staff  Jacob Lew  talked with Bryson
today,  Jay Carney , the Obama administration press secretary,
said, without elaborating on the discussions.  ‘Gathering Information’  “We’re still in the process of gathering information”
about the Bryson incident, Carney said. “There’s more than
needs to be learned.”  Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Deputy Mark Pope said
authorities were told Bryson “suffers from a pre-existing
medical condition,” according to ABC News Radio.  Bryson’s Lexus rear-ended a Buick that had stopped about
5:05 p.m. on June 9 to wait for a train to clear the four-lane
road in San Gabriel, California, Steve Whitmore, a Los Angeles
County sheriff spokesman, said in an interview. Occupants in the
Buick spoke to Bryson and said he “appeared disoriented,” San
Gabriel Police Lieutenant Ariel Duran said. Bryson struck the
vehicle a second time as he left the scene, prompting the
Buick’s driver to follow and call the 911 emergency line.  After driving south for about 1.9 miles past gasoline
stations, a Chinese grocery and a Serbian Orthodox Church,
Bryson struck a Honda Accord in Rosemead,  California , about 5:10
p.m., causing minor injuries to the passengers. He was found
alone and unconscious at the scene by police. There is no
indication alcohol or drugs were involved, police said.  Bryson’s Lexus  Conviction on a felony hit-and-run charge can result in at
least a year in state prison, the police said.  The Commerce secretary was using his own vehicle and wasn’t
traveling with his government security detail, Friedman said. He
was treated with medication for the seizure, she said.  More than 2 million people in the U.S. have experienced
seizures without an identifiable cause, according to the website
of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.
Although some seizures may cause violent physical symptoms, such
as muscle spasms, most are milder, lasting from half a minute to
two minutes, according to the agency, part of the Bethesda,
Maryland-based  National Institutes of Health . Sudden, abnormal
electrical outbursts that disrupt normal activity of the brain
may result in a seizure, according to the website.  ‘Short Circuiting’  “It’s like the misfiring or short circuiting of a
complicated computer,” Carl Bazil, director of the
Comprehensive Epilepsy Center at  Columbia University  in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “An infection, bleeding in
the brain, an abnormally high or low blood sugar, a tumor, all
sorts of things can set off a seizure.”  The trip by Bryson to California, where he still owns a
house, included delivering the commencement address June 7 at
the Polytechnic School in  Pasadena , California, where he
previously served on the board, according to the school’s
website. The school teaches kindergarten through 12th grade.  Bryson became Commerce secretary after Gary Locke took over
as U.S. ambassador to China. As Commerce secretary, he oversees
almost 47,000 employees and a $7.5 billion agency budget to
promote  job creation  and economic growth.  Bryson joined Edison International, based in Rosemead and
and owner of electric power generation facilities, in 1984 and
was named chairman and CEO in 1990. He retired in 2008. In
September 2010, he became chairman of  BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE) ,
an Oakland, California-based developer of solar-power plants.
The company tapped a $1.6 billion loan from the U.S. government
in 2011 to build its Ivanpah project in the Mojave Desert.  Bryson Backers  His nomination was supported by the  Business Roundtable ,
representing CEOs of companies such as  Boeing Co. (BA) , and opposed
by Republicans including Senator  John Barrasso  of Wyoming, who
criticized Bryson’s support in the past for legislation to cap
 carbon emissions .  The president has said development of clean and renewable
energy industries is key to keeping the nation competitive in
the global economy and increasing exports. Bryson’s background
complements that emphasis.  “John Bryson will be a key member of my economic team,
working with the business community to promote job creation,
foster growth and help open up new markets around the world for
American-made goods,” Obama said after the new Commerce
secretary took office on Oct. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William McQuillen in  Washington  at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  