-- U.S. Breaks Off Pakistan Talks on Afghan Supply Routes
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-06-11T21:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/u-s-breaks-off-pakistan-talks-on-afghan-supply-routes.html
U.S. officials have broken off talks
with their Pakistani counterparts on reopening supply routes
into  Afghanistan , Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said.  Part of the U.S. negotiating team that was in  Pakistan  to
discuss the supply route dispute left the country over the
weekend, and the rest will leave shortly, Little told reporters
yesterday.  U.S.-Pakistan relations have worsened since November when
American helicopters killed 24 Pakistani soldiers in what a
Pentagon investigation said was an accidental attack on border
posts. Since the incident, Pakistan has refused to let NATO
military supplies transit through the country to Afghanistan.  Months of negotiations between the two sides have yet to
resolve the dispute, forcing NATO to truck supplies into
Afghanistan by the more difficult and expensive northern route
through Central Asian states.  Pakistan’s top military official, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, declined to meet with Peter Lavoy, the U.S. assistant
secretary of defense, who was visiting the country, according to
a  report by the News International , a Pakistani publication.  The U.S. team’s departure wasn’t tied to “anything
specific,” Little said. The U.S. negotiating team will return
home “for a short period of time” and can go back “at any
moment,” he said.  There is no timetable for resuming talks, said State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland . “I think we need to
hear from the Pakistanis when they think that’s a good idea,”
she said at a briefing yesterday in Washington.  Pakistan’s Ambassador  “I don’t see it as an institutional pullout,” Sherry Rehman, Pakistan’s ambassador to the U.S., said yesterday in an
e-mail. “Pakistan is seeking to be part of the solution for
NATO and the U.S. as they transfer security in Afghanistan, not
an obstacle.”  U.S. military operations in Afghanistan won’t be deterred
by inability to use of supply routes through Pakistan, U.S. Army
Lieutenant General Curtis Scaparrotti, commander of U.S. Forces
Afghanistan, said yesterday.  “I’m confident we can continue this campaign and supply
the campaign” as well withdraw troops from Afghanistan as
scheduled “with the different means we have for resupply,”
Scaparrotti said in a televised news conference from
Afghanistan.  Asked about reports that Pakistan wanted to charge $5,000
per truck, up from $250 previously, to let supplies flow,
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said last month that “we’re
going to pay a fair price.”  Getting ‘Gouged’  “They’re negotiating what the price out to be,” Panetta
said on ABC’s “This Week” program. “You know, clearly we’re
not about to get gouged.”  Rehman said the supply routes were closed “absent an
expression of remorse” over the 24 soldiers killed, not in an
effort to gain “a price advantage.”  Last week, Panetta also expressed increasing frustration
with Pakistan’s failure to crack down on the Haqqani militant
group, which has stepped up attacks on coalition forces in
Afghanistan.  “We are reaching the limits of our patience here, and for
that reason it’s extremely important that Pakistan take
action,” Panetta told reporters on June 7 during a visit to
Kabul.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  