-- Egypt’s Mubarak Revived Twice After Heart Stoppages
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y ,   A h m e d   E l - S a y e d   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-06-11T14:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/mubarak-revived-twice-using-defibrillator-after-heart-stopped.html
Ousted Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  had to be revived twice using a defibrillator, as his
condition deteriorates days before the country is due to elect a
successor.  Mubarak received the treatment after his heart stopped,
Brigadier General Mohamed Elewa, a spokesman for the prison
department, said in a telephone interview today. The 84-year-old,
who is serving a life sentence in Cairo’s Tora prison for
failing to prevent the deaths of protesters killed in last
year’s uprising, has reportedly been getting progressively worse
since his conviction on June 2.  “His heart has stopped as a result of the grave neglect in
his treatment and failure to respond to our request since last
Wednesday to transfer him to a military hospital,” Mubarak’s
attorney, Farid ElDib, said by phone. “The hospital has no
preparations to deal with such a case, but no one is responding
to our request in order to appease the Muslim Brotherhood which
wants to gloat, whether he is alive or dead.”  The worsening of Mubarak’s condition comes as his former
aide Ahmed Shafik prepares to contest a runoff presidential race
against the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi. The emergence of
the two most divisive candidates from the first-round vote has
added to tensions in a country struggling to recover from the
revolt that toppled Mubarak last year.  Sons Moved  Prison officials today moved Mubarak’s older son Alaa to a
cell nearer to where he is being held in the hospital’s
intensive care unit. His younger son and one-time heir-apparent,
Gamal, had been transferred nearer to his father days earlier.
The two were acquitted of corruption, though they are being held
in prison after new charges were filed days before the verdict.  Mubarak’s family has requested that he be transferred to a
military hospital or another large facility where he can receive
more specialized care. The request has not been approved.  ElDib said he visited Mubarak on June 9 and the former
leader lost consciousness three times while he was there. He
said he is urging world leaders to intervene.  “Where are the human rights groups that used to turn the
world upside down?” ElDib said. “Shall we leave the man to die
before our own eyes? Is this the right thing to do?”  Shafik Critics  While Mubarak and his security chief Habib el-Adli were
convicted, six senior police officials were acquitted. Youth
activists and other groups saw the verdict as paving the way for
the former president’s acquittal on appeal, and another example
of how the political odds were stacked in favor of restoring his
old regime to power. Shafik, a former civil aviation minister
who served as premier in the last weeks of Mubarak’s rule, has
been branded by the Brotherhood and the activists as the
embodiment of that effort.  With the vote just days away, and the generals who took
over from Mubarak pledging to hand over power to civilians later
this month, politicians are racing to set a framework in place
for the incoming president. Both houses of parliament are due to
meet tomorrow to elect a 100-member committee that will draft
 Egypt ’s new constitution and outline the president’s powers.  The new committee is being set up weeks after its
predecessor was disbanded following a court ruling about its
composition. Critics of the Brotherhood had argued that the
group and other Islamists had sought to dominate the body.  ‘Religious State’  There are indications that the problem may resurface, after
a group of four secularist parties including the Free Egyptians
and the  Social Democrats  pulled out of a meeting yesterday to
discuss the committee. Party representatives complained that the
Islamists, who hold about 70 percent of the seats in parliament,
are again trying to monopolize the panel.  “We will not surrender to a constitution of a religious
state,” billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , one of the founders of the
Free Egyptian party, said on his Twitter account today.  The parties said they will relinquish their seats on the
panel to other civil society and interest groups, including some
representing young people and women, the official Middle East
News Agency reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  