-- Municipal Regulators Crack Down on Disclosure Enforement
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-06-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/municipal-regulators-crack-down-on-disclosure-enforement.html
Municipal-bond regulators are
checking to ensure that securities underwriters comply with
obligations requiring issuers meet disclosure obligations,
officials said at a government-finance conference.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority in the past two weeks began asking
underwriters in the $3.7 trillion market to review whether
municipalities provided required disclosures when selling bonds,
according to Leslie Norwood, vice president of the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association.  “There’s been an increase in the scrutiny they receive,”
Norwood said during an interview at the Government Finance
Officers Association’s debt committee meeting over the weekend
in  Chicago . “It’s something dealers are reacting to.”  The SEC has made clear that disclosure must improve in the
municipal-bond market, where issuers sometimes produce financial
reports late, provide incomplete information or don’t make it
available at all. In March, regulators said they would begin
checking on whether dealers have been making sure their clients
comply, Norwood said.  Under securities law, municipal borrowers don’t have to
provide financial and other information, yet their underwriter
banks are required to put language in bond documents that forces
the issuers to meet disclosure guidelines.  Proof of Compliance  Some dealers didn’t maintain and didn’t require issuers to
maintain adequate written evidence that they complied with
disclosure obligations, according to  the March alert  sent by the
SEC. Failure to comply with due diligence on its obligation can
lead to violations of anti-fraud provisions of securities laws
and other SEC and Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board rules,
the alert said.  More borrowers have been asked in recent weeks to go back
and document their compliance with the disclosure requirement,
Frank Hoadley, director of capital finance for  Wisconsin  and a
member of the debt committee, said in an interview.  During their meeting, the finance officers also approved a
new guideline on how issuers should show their pension
obligations to investors, a move also driven by the SEC’s effort
to improve disclosure in the market.  “It’s clear that the SEC has taken this issue on,” said
 Ben Watkins , a member of the committee and director of bond
sales for the state of  Florida . “It’s an initiative that is
front and center on their agenda.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  