-- UnitedHealth, Aetna to Retain Some Benefits of Health Law
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-11T19:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/unitedhealth-to-keep-some-benefits-even-if-health-law-rejected.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,  Aetna Inc. (AET) 
and Humana Inc. plan to retain some benefits created by the U.S.
health-care overhaul even if the  Supreme Court  strikes down the
law. The exception: Those involving people with pre-existing
illness.  Customers of UnitedHealth, the largest U.S. health insurer,
can keep children on plans until age 26, get free preventive
care and won’t face lifetime benefit limits, the Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based company said yesterday in a statement. The
insurer also won’t rescind policies except for cases of fraud
and will retain a simplified appeals process for denials.  Aetna, the third-largest health insurer by  market value ,
said today it would cover preventive services, let young adults
stay on their parents’ plans and continue outside reviews of
coverage denial appeals. Industrywide implementation of those
and other provisions of the 2010 health care law has been in
doubt as the Supreme Court prepares to rule this month on
whether a key measure of the overhaul is constitutional.  “A number of provisions in the health-reform law have been
woven into the fabric of our health-care system, bring value to
customers and consumers, and should be maintained,” Hartford,
Connecticut-based Aetna said in an e-mail.  Humana (HUM)  said today it would maintain various coverage
provisions, all of which match UnitedHealth’s pledge.  “Humana believes its health plan members should have the
peace of mind of knowing the company embraces and will maintain
these common-sense provisions that add stability and security to
health-care coverage,” the Louisville, Kentucky-based company
said in a statement.  Competitive Pressure  UnitedHealth said it can’t cover children with pre-existing
illnesses unless other insurers also agree to cover them, and
that it would work with “all other participants in the health-
care system” on the issue. None of the companies addressed the
issue of covering adults with pre-existing conditions. Other
insurers will probably follow UnitedHealth’s lead, said  Les Funtleyder , a portfolio manager with  Miller Tabak  in New York,
before Aetna’s statement.  “As United goes, so goes the world,” said Funtleyder,
whose Healthcare Transformation Fund owns UnitedHealth shares.
“The reason insurance companies didn’t do it in the first place
-- they can price for all of these things -- is because they
were afraid of competition.”  The Supreme Court is weighing whether the law’s mandate
that most Americans be insured is constitutional and, if not,
whether to strike down the entire law or just that part of it.
The law, supported by President  Barack Obama , was passed without
Republican Party support.  ‘Couple of Dollars’  Nick Papas, a White House spokesman, declined to comment on
the insurers’ actions.  The benefits and protections UnitedHealth would preserve
probably don’t cost much or add more than “a couple of
dollars” to premiums, Funtleyder said in a telephone interview.
UnitedHealth had about  25.9 million people  in its commercial
plans in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said it won’t change its 2012 earnings forecast
because of the announcement. The cost of single benefits such as
free preventive care can’t be easily isolated from the variables
that determine premiums, Matt Stearns, a UnitedHealth spokesman,
said by telephone.  Health Costs  The requirement that insurers let families keep children in
their plans until age 26 expanded insurance coverage to about
2.5 million people in 2011 while increasing premiums less than 1
percent, the government estimates.  The provision is among the most popular parts of the law,
polls show, and the nonprofit Commonwealth Fund in  New York 
estimated last week that about 6.6 million young adults are on
their parents’ plans because of it.  The government has  estimated  that prohibiting lifetime
limits on benefits also adds less than 1 percent to premiums.  “The protections we are voluntarily extending are good for
people’s health, promote broader access to quality care and
contribute to helping control rising health care costs,”
UnitedHealth Chief Executive Officer Stephen J. Hemsley said in
the statement.  Ron Pollack , executive director of Families USA, a consumer
advocacy group in Washington that backs the health-care law,
called UnitedHealth’s statement a “very positive development.”  “This in no way changes the importance of making sure the
Affordable Care Act is fully implemented,” Pollack said in a
telephone interview. He said he hopes other insurers don’t
“undermine” UnitedHealth’s position by offering plans with
lower premiums that don’t guarantee the same protections.  Aetna said it also planned to continue collaborations with
hospitals and doctors through so-called accountable care
organizations, in which health providers closely monitor and
coordinate care for patients in an attempt to lower health
costs.  The health law, the company said, “has propelled interest
in exploring new ways to deliver care.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  