-- Huntington Ingalls Joins Lockheed Girding for Defense Cut
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-06-11T15:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/huntington-ingalls-joins-lockheed-girding-for-defense-cut.html
For Matthew Mulherin, who manages
Navy aircraft carrier construction for  Huntington Ingalls
Industries Inc. (HII) , automatic defense spending cuts set to take
effect in January are an “end-of-earth scenario.”  That’s why Huntington Ingalls and such companies as
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)  are fanning out to stave
off defense reductions that would amount to $55 billion a year
through 2021. The cuts, through a process called sequestration,
will be triggered if lawmakers don’t agree by year’s end on ways
to reduce government debt by $1.2 trillion over a decade.  For defense contractors such as Huntington Ingalls that
depend on government funding, the prospect of automatic spending
cuts has prompted a “lobbying effort not like anything I’ve
seen” to give lawmakers a “constant education,” said Matthew
Paxton, president and chief executive officer of the
 Shipbuilders Council of America.   The automatic cuts would compound an already difficult
market for contractors who face a projected 22 percent drop in
defense procurement outlays by 2015, said Deutsche Bank AG
defense analyst Myles Walton. Sequestration would occur on top
of the $487 billion in cuts that President  Barack Obama  has
proposed over the next 10 years.  To emphasize the ripple effect of defense cuts on U.S.
jobs, the builder of a version of the Navy’s Littoral Combat
Ship in Mobile,  Alabama , said it led representatives of 50
suppliers from 25 states to Capitol Hill last month to meet with
more than 100 lawmakers. The company,  Austal Ltd. (ASB) , reminded
lawmakers of the defense and economic value of the shallow-water
ships that hunt submarines and sweep for mines.  Worker Rally  The trade group for the  aerospace industry  has organized
luncheons with lawmakers and worker rallies outside defense
plants. Florida Republican Ander Crenshaw, a member of the House
defense appropriations subcommittee, addressed a May 21 rally of
400 workers the group organized outside a  Kaman Corp. (KAMN)  aerospace
plant in Jacksonville.  Employees at Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed, the world’s
largest defense company, increased political donations 9 percent
for the 2012 election from their 2010 election giving, according
to the  Federal Election Commission . So far this election season,
Lockheed’s political action committee has contributed $2.26
million, including to members of defense committees in Congress.  Political Donations  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , which teams with Huntington Ingalls
to build Virginia-class nuclear submarines, boosted its
political donations almost 10 percent in this election cycle, to
$1.2 million, according to its campaign-finance filings. Led by
Boeing’s $4.2 million, defense companies spent $33 million on
lobbying in the first quarter of 2012.  The defense lobby spent almost $132 million in 2011 as a
new Republican House majority pushed spending cuts and Democrats
demanded that reductions include defense as well as social
programs. This year the industry is on track to spend about that
amount, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a non-
partisan Washington group that monitors political spending.  Huntington Ingalls’s team of lobbyists includes former U.S.
Senators Trent Lott, a  Mississippi  Republican, and John Breaux,
a  Louisiana  Democrat. The business partners developed expertise
in Congress looking out for the two Gulf Coast shipyards in
their states that Huntington Ingalls now owns after it was spun
off last year by  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  Neither Lott nor Breaux
returned telephone calls seeking comment.  ‘Most Fearful’  Defense contractors are “most fearful” of
“indiscriminate arbitrary reductions across the board,” that
could spur as many as 350,000 job losses if the automatic cuts
take effect, said Cord Sterling, vice president of the Aerospace
Industries Association of America.  In the absence of guidance from President Barack Obama’s
administration about how the cuts would be carried out, bigger
companies “have to assume those go into place” so “they will
be taking actions late summer or fall” to restructure or
downsize, he said.  The prospect of cuts already is having a “chilling
effect” on the industry and Lockheed and other companies may
stop hiring and training, Lockheed chief executive officer
Robert Stevens said in March on Capitol Hill. Last week he said
that laws requiring advance notice of firings may prompt grim
warnings in September and October.  Notifying Suppliers  “We may have to notify every one of our employees and all
of our suppliers and subcontractors that they may or may not
have a subcontract,” Stevens said May 31 at a conference for
investors.  The  supply chain  of parts and components of complex weapon
systems and ships is at risk if smaller companies can’t plan,
Paxton of the shipbuilders’ council said.  “Smaller companies are not hiring now and come this summer
will start laying people off,” Paxton said. Some suppliers and
“smaller shipyards will be closing their doors” unless
Congress acts, he said.  Preparing for the cuts is like “planning for the end of
the world,” said Mulherin, president of Huntington Ingalls’s
 Newport News , Virginia, shipbuilding division. “I am almost
afraid to provide a notion” of what may happen under
sequestration “because I don’t want it to become real,” he
said.  Virtually all of Huntington Ingalls’s $6.6 billion 2011
revenue came from the Defense Department or the Coast Guard.  New Class  Huntington Ingalls’s USS  Gerald Ford  aircraft carrier, the
first in a new class of three such ships, has been under
construction since 2009 and is set for delivery in 2015.
Huntington’s contract to construct the Ford probably will exceed
its target cost of $5.2 billion by $884 million, the Navy
reported to Congress on March 29. The ship’s total projected
cost, including equipment from other companies, is about $12.3
billion. That’s roughly an 18 percent increase over the past
four years, according to the  Congressional Research Service .  The complexity of Navy shipbuilding, which requires
Mulherin’s management team to plan and choreograph each step of
construction, illustrates the difficulty posed by budget cuts.  Any slowdown in carrier production caused by spending cuts
would affect subcontractors, said Michael Clute, president of
the 180-employee  Ward Leonard Electric Co.  The company builds
controllers for electric motors on the Ford that power winches,
fans, pumps or other electric-powered devices.  “Once you turn the faucet off, everything unwinds,” he
said. “We wouldn’t have the business to hold these skilled
employees.”  Revenue Effects  Besides the logistical difficulties that shipbuilding
delays would mean for Huntington Ingalls’s subcontractors and
suppliers, sequestration could cut into the company’s future
revenue during a time of flat or declining sales.  Huntington reported on May 9 that it had first-quarter
sales of $1.57 billion, down 6.9 percent from a year earlier.
Net income fell 27 percent to $33 million, or 67 cents per
share, from $45 million, or 92 cents.  The company’s revenue, projected to be $6.4 billion in
2014, would be cut 10 percent by sequestration to $5.8 billion,
Deutsche Bank’s Walton said. The company posted revenue of $6.5
billion last year.  The spending “direction is definitely down” and “as the
 defense budget  goes down, it accounts for the vast majority of
revenues in these companies,” he said.  The austerity in defense spending comes a year after
Huntington Ingalls’s spinoff from Northrop Grumman, which sought
to focus its business on aerospace and information systems.  Profit Margins  In 2002, Huntington bought Newport News Shipbuilding for
$2.6 billion after winning a takeover battle against General
Dynamics Corp. Northrop had acquired the Ingalls shipyard in
Mississippi and the Avondale yard in Louisiana when it bought
Litton Industries in 2001 for $5.1 billion.  The shipbuilding industry’s slim profit margins prompted
Northrop to decide to spin off the company, now the largest
builder of U.S. Navy surface ships, Walton said.  Historically, “the return on assets isn’t good” in
shipbuilding and “that was a focus for Northrop to improve”
Walton said.  Over the past decade “the shipbuilding business
at Northrop has had two fits of euphoria and collapse.”  Still, Huntington Ingalls  shares  are up 16 percent this
year, compared with a gain of 1 percent in the  S&P 500 Aerospace
and Defense Index. (S5AERO)   Investors view the shipbuilder as less susceptible to
“spending volatility” than defense companies with shorter-term
contracts, Walton said.  Multi-Year Contracts  Huntington Ingalls executives say multi-year contracts
insulate the company for as long as five years.  “Whether you are in a sequestered environment or not, the
nation needs the Navy,” and “the Navy needs aircraft
carriers,” CEO Mike Petters said in an interview in his office
overlooking the 550-acre shipyard on the James River.  While Petters expresses confidence, Howard “Buck” McKeon,
the California Republican who is chairman of the House Armed
Services Committee, says sequestration would require the
Pentagon to “go down every line item and cut 8 or 10 percent.”
The higher percentage would apply if Obama exempts military pay
from the reductions.  Virginia Representative Rob Wittman said Huntington Ingalls
representatives have told him that an across-the-board cut of 8
percent to 10 percent would be problematic for the shipbuilding
industry.  ‘Daily Basis’  A Republican whose district near Newport News is home to
many other defense contractors, Wittman says he hears from
companies “on a daily basis.”  The House-passed defense authorization measure would
stretch out funding of the next carrier, the USS John F. Kennedy, to six years from five. Obama’s proposed 2013 budget
includes money for planning and advanced procurement of
materials for the Kennedy. It also seeks to lengthen the
construction period by two years.  Any delay in the start of the Kennedy’s construction
imposed by sequestration would be damaging, Mulherin said.  “When I finish Ford I don’t want to let those people go,”
he said. “You have thousands and thousands of fully capable
shipbuilders ready to go build the Kennedy” so “if I don’t
have work for them it’s just wrong.”  Theodore Roosevelt  At Newport News, more than 3,000 welders, pipe fitters,
electricians and other specialists in shipbuilding trades work
shifts around the clock five days a week to construct the USS
Gerald Ford. Another 3,000 shipbuilders are completing the
overhaul of the USS  Theodore Roosevelt , in port for nuclear
refueling halfway through its 50-year service life. It was
outfitted with a new mast, complete with the Navy’s state-of-
the-art electronic communications and radar gear.  Newport News also is preparing for the February arrival of
the USS  Abraham Lincoln , the next carrier due for nuclear
refueling. The company is under contract to plan the Lincoln’s
overhaul and hasn’t signed the execution agreement.  Mulherin said he’s confident the Pentagon will go ahead
with the Lincoln’s overhaul even if sequestration happens
because “the Navy just won’t let one of these things sit pier
side with two reactors on board without an intended function.”
The Lincoln “can’t keep operating, it’s out of gas, so
something has to be done.”  Bennie Thompson  Democratic Representative Bennie Thompson of Mississippi
said he hears frequently from Huntington Ingalls, which employs
11,000 people at its Pascagoula yard. Company representatives
want to talk about what would happen if funds “anticipated for
certain programs are no longer available,” he said.  Republicans and Democrats in Congress are split over how to
handle the automatic cuts. Obama and Democrats insist on keeping
the sequestration trigger to require Congress to agree on
spending cuts and tax increases to reduce the long-term debt.  To spare defense, the Republican-run House passed
legislation to cut $310 billion from domestic spending,
including food stamps and benefits for federal workers. The
measure probably won’t advance in the Democratic-controlled
Senate.  Like most lawmakers, McKeon said he doesn’t expect the tax
and spending issues to be addressed until after the November
election, setting the stage for the defense lobbying effort to
reach full force in the so-called lame-duck session late this
year.  Virginia Democrat Bobby Scott, whose district includes
Newport News, said he wouldn’t cut other spending to avoid
defense cutbacks so Republicans can preserve the income tax
cuts. “Let the tax cuts expire,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  