-- Turkish Current-Account Deficit Narrows for Sixth Month in April
-- B y   B e n   H o l l a n d
-- 2012-06-11T08:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/turkish-current-account-deficit-narrows-for-sixth-month-in-april.html
Turkey ’s  current-account deficit 
narrowed for a sixth month in April after the lira’s decline and
tighter monetary policy curbed imports.  The deficit was $5 billion in the month, down from $7.7
billion a year earlier, the central bank in Ankara said on its
website today. It was forecast at $5 billion, according to the
 median estimate  of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
12-month cumulative deficit narrowed to $69.2 billion, the
lowest since May last year.  Turkey’s current account deficit widened to a record of
more than 10 percent of gross domestic product last year. Since
then the central bank, which started varying borrowing costs on
a daily basis in October, has  tightened policy  to curb the
credit boom that fueled demand for imports. The lira also fell
more than 13 percent in the 12 months through April, making
exports more competitive.  The deficit “is on track to decline to around 8 percent of
GDP,”  Inan Demir , an economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul,
said in an e-mailed note.  The lira gained 0.4 percent to 1.8144 per dollar at 10:45
a.m. in Istanbul today, extending a six-day rally.  Foreign direct investment dropped to $430 million in April,
the lowest this year, according to the central bank figures.
Turkey is increasingly dependent on short-term borrowing, mostly
by banks, to finance the current-account deficit, increasing the
risks to the $800 billion economy.  “Further escalation of the euro-zone debt crisis might
lead to a marked deterioration in financing conditions” that
would force a reduction in the current-account gap at the cost
of a slump in output, Demir said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Holland in Istanbul at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Holland at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net  