-- Turkish Air in ‘Urgent’ Need of Jumbo Jets on Surging Traffic
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-11T00:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/turkish-air-in-urgent-need-of-jumbo-jets-on-surging-traffic.html
Turk Hava Yollari (THYAO)  AO, known as
 Turkish Airlines , is talking to both Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA) 
about ordering jumbo jets to keep up with surging traffic
through its Istanbul hub.  The carrier needs aircraft bigger than its current largest
model, 330-seater Boeing 777s, and it is looking at the 747-8
and the Airbus A380, Chief Executive Officer Temel Kotil said in
a Bloomberg TV interview in Beijing yesterday, where he is
attending an industry meeting. He declined to comment on how
many planes the carrier may order and when.  “We need more big machines,” he said. “It’s urgent.”  The airline’s passenger traffic has jumped 28 percent this
year, more than triple the global growth rate, as it builds up a
network connecting travelers in  Asia ,  Europe  and Africa. The
airline also expects to boost profit this year even as a debt
crisis in Europe slows global economic growth.  “This year’s going to be much better,” Kotil said, ahead
of the International Air Transport Association annual meeting.
The carrier made an 18.5 million lira ($10 million) profit last
year. Analysts had expected a loss.  Turkish Air has grown the seventh-largest network worldwide,
with 182 destinations, Kotil said. The expansion has helped
boost earnings as fixed costs are spread over a bigger operation.
The airline’s costs are about 30 percent less than European
carriers’ on average, Kotil said.  China-Africa Flights  The airline has 39 long-haul jets, according to its website,
including 12 Boeing 777s and 17 passenger Airbus A330s. It
hasn’t ordered either Boeing 787s or Airbus A350s. The carrier
is unlikely to buy these planes as it wants aircraft larger than
777s, Kotil said.  The A380 in three class configuration seats 525 passengers
though can carry more than 800 if set up exclusively for coach
passengers. The 747-8 seats about 467 people in a three-class
configuration.  Turkish serves 20 points in  Africa , more than any of the
Gulf region carriers, Kotil said. This network is helping the
airline draw travelers from mainland  China , which has limited
direct flights to the continent, he said.  Within China, Turkish is hoping to increase frequencies on
its Shanghai and Beijing services to twice daily. It is also
looking to add five new destinations including Chengdu and
Urumqi.  Kotil declined to comment on whether 305 employees
terminated without compensation for taking part in a go-slow
action on May 29 would be rehired. The employees were let go
after parliament passed a measure banning airline workers from
strikes.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  