-- USGA Signs 3-Year, $12 Million Sponsorship Accord With Chevron
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-06-11T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/usga-signs-3-year-12-million-sponsorship-accord-with-chevron.html
The  U.S. Golf Association  added to
its roster of corporate sponsors for this week’s  U.S. Open ,
reaching a three-year partnership with  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   The second-largest U.S. energy company will pay $4 million
annually to become an official USGA partner, according to two
people familiar with the sponsorship, which includes print,
broadcast and digital media purchases.  The agreement will use marquee events to promote education
by showcasing the science and technology principles behind the
game, Glenn Weckerlin, Chevron’s director of marketing, said.
There will be learning stations to teach about the science of
golf -- such as aerodynamics, velocity and lift of golf balls,
and measuring the slope and acceleration of putting greens.  “When you see the kids interact with these things, it just
really comes to life for them,” Sarah Hirshland, the USGA’s
director of business affairs, said in a telephone interview.
“Our goal is for that to be an incentive for them to care about
and better understand the game.”  San Ramon , California-based Chevron and the USGA, which
governs the game of golf along with the Royal & Ancient Golf
Club of  St. Andrews , Scotland, will create content aimed at
advancing childhood science, technology, education and math
programs -- known as STEM.  “We employ a number of engineers and scientists,”
Hirshland said. “This is an inherent part of what we need in
the future. The monetary component is not the driving force
behind this.”  Drive Interest  The programs are designed to drive student interest in STEM
education and introduce them to the game’s fundamental elements,
Hirshland said.  In addition to having a hospitality presence and golf
outings at the U.S. Open, U.S. Women’s Open and U.S. Senior Open
venues, Chevron will sponsor a STEM Zone area for students.  Before forming the partnership, Chevron had similar
learning centers at U.S. PGA Tour events including the Pebble
Beach National Pro-Am, the  Northern Trust (NTRS)  Open in  Los Angeles 
and the Zurich Classic of New Orleans.  “It was a pretty fast discussion,” Weckerlin said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a nice fit.”  Chevron joins  American Express Co. (AXP) ,  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , Lexus International Ltd. and Rolex Watch Co. as
official USGA sponsors. Hirshland said the ruling body isn’t
actively seeking new partnerships.  “We’re very comfortable with five,” she said. “But to
say never is a big word.”  In December, Chevron declined to renew its title
sponsorship of Tiger Woods’s annual World Challenge event in
 Thousand Oaks , California. Chevron had sponsored the tournament
and Woods’s charitable foundation since 2008.  “We rode out the issues that took place halfway through
the deal,” Weckerlin said. “If we really had an issue with
Tiger’s foundation, we would have gotten out two years earlier.
It served a purpose at the time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  