-- Wal-Mart Officials Sued Over Mexican Bribery Allegations
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-06-11T22:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/wal-mart-officials-sued-over-mexican-bribery-allegations.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  officials were
sued by a group of New York pension funds for alleged
mismanagement in failing to prevent bribery as the world’s
largest retailer expanded operations in Mexico.  Investors including the New York City Employees’ Retirement
System, Police Pension Fund, Fire Department Pension Fund and
Board of Education Retirement System contend that company
officials were duty bound to control alleged “widespread
corruption” and a subsequent cover-up at Wal-Mart de Mexico,
according to a complaint filed today in  Delaware  Chancery Court.  “We take our responsibility to our shareholders very
seriously,”  David Tovar , a spokesman for Wal-Mart, said in an
e-mailed statement. “We will review the lawsuit closely and are
thoroughly investigating the issues that have been raised,” he
added.  Both U.S. and Mexican prosecutors said in April that they
had started probes of allegations that Wal-Mart bribed Mexican
officials to help fuel growth in the country. The retailer’s
expansion in  Mexico  has turned the company into the country’s
largest private employer, with more than 209,000 workers.  “The defendants knew or should have known that violations
of law were occurring” and “made no good-faith effort to
prevent or remedy the situation,” the funds said in their
complaint.  The case is one of four filed this year in Delaware since
allegations of bribery were reported. The funds, which hold 5.62
million shares of Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, seek
unspecified restitution from officials on behalf of the company
and reforms “to improve its corporate governance and internal
procedures,” according to the complaint.  The U.S. government investigation into $24 million in
alleged Mexican bribes might cost Wal-Mart hundreds of millions
of dollars, former federal prosecutors have said.  “A thorough investigation will take time and we are in the
early stages,” Tovar said in the e-mail. “It would be
inappropriate for us or others to come to conclusions before the
investigation is complete.”  The case is  New York  City Employees’ v. Alvarez, CA7612,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 