-- Wealthy Cling to Art and Other Treasures in a Low-Return World
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-06-11T16:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/wealthy-cling-to-art-and-other-treasures-in-a-low-return-world.html
     Stock portfolios in recent years have provided scant
comfort. All too often, those share prices on a computer
screen -- who even has paper stock certificates anymore? --
are the difference between a good night's sleep or pacing
yourself into a flop sweat. Even when the numbers do go
up, volatility seems to drag them down. That has wealthy
investors longing for tangible assets -- something they can
showcase in their living rooms, drive through their towns
in, or even wear from time to time.  Just last week someone paid more for a car than has ever
been spent before, when a 1962 apple-green Ferrari 250 GTO
sold for $35 million in a private sale. Also in May, Edvard
Munch's painting "The Scream" sold at auction for a record
$120 million -- in 12 minutes. And in December of last
year, Elizabeth Taylor's jewelry collection set a world record
at $157 million.  The world's millionaires are devoting an average of 9.6
percent of their fortunes to nonfinancial assets like
collectibles, a new survey by Barclays Wealth shows. Nearly
every category of "treasure assets" attracted new buyers in
the past five years. The poll of 2,000 people with investable
assets of $1.5 million or more, conducted by Ledbury
Research, found that 49 percent of respondents own fine art
pictures and paintings, up 8 points from 2007. Also drawing a
trove of new collectors were precious jewelry, antique
furniture, precious metals, wine, rugs, sculptures, classic
automobiles and coins.  The eye-popping sale results of the past year may
stimulate more buying. Buyers figure they are getting not only
a beautiful object but also an investment insulated from
volatile financial markets. "Because we're in a low-return
environment, people view art as a good place to park money,"
says Marion Maneker, publisher of Art Market Monitor.  Just as Americans overspent on homes in the past
decade, lovers of art, wine and other collectibles may be
mistaking the fun of treasure hunting for a
smart investment, says Christopher Didier, managing director
at Robert W. Baird & Co.'s private asset management group. As
prices go up, such "investments" can seem like no-brainers, he
says. Then, invariably, someone kills the music and turns up
the lights. "Reality hits," he says.  Costly Collections  The problem with owning something tangible and valuable:
Like most things -- with the exception of college
books, children's toys and your grandmother's CorningWare --
you can't just stuff it in the basement. Precious things
are pretty precious and require maintenance and money.  Aside from auction or gallery commissions, collectors
must pay for storage, security, insurance and transportation.
Insurance on $1 million in art, antiques or rugs tends to cost
$600 to $1,800 a year, according to Martin Hartley, chief
operating officer at Privilege Underwriters Reciprocal
Exchange, or PURE, a specialist insurer for high-net-worth
customers. And installing a good, basic alarm system can cost
$1.50 for every square foot protected, says Gary
Raphael, senior vice president for risk consulting at ACE
Private Risk Services.  Yet the costs of securing and storing possessions can
pale in comparison with the risks of resale markets. The art
market can be just as volatile, irrational and bewildering as
the stock market. While exceptionally great pieces are selling
at peak prices, good isn't good enough, Maneker says.
"It's very hard to sell stuff that is really good, as opposed
to insanely good."  Generation gap  To make matters worse, that abstract painting that some
investor may have spent a year and a small fortune acquiring
may end up boring his kids or creeping them out. That's
nothing compared with how unhappy they'll be when they
discover they have to pay taxes on it. Often the younger
generation has no interest in acquiring the older generation's
precious objects, and estate taxes can be high on these
items, says Daniel Egan, a behavioral finance specialist at
Barclays Wealth.  Still, people continue to collect, with the youngest
millionaires pouring more of their fortunes into collectibles.
On average, survey respondents in their 30s put 12 percent of
their net worth in treasure assets, while those in their 60s
and 70s devoted just 4 percent.  Perhaps what people are really investing in when they
acquire works of art, fine wines, or rare coins isn't
something that appreciates in value; they're just something
collectors appreciate, along with the pleasure of the
treasure hunt. The survey found only 18 percent of treasure is
owned "purely as an investment." Having a motive other than
moneymaking may come in handy. Says Milo Benningfield, of
Benningfield Financial Advisors in San Francisco: "When you
start mixing business and pleasure, usually one or the other
suffers."
 