-- Two Ex-Auburn Football Players Among Three Killed in Shooting
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/two-ex-auburn-football-players-among-three-killed-in-shooting.html
Two former Auburn University
football players were among three people killed in an off-campus
shooting over the weekend that left three others hospitalized
with gunshot wounds.  Ladarious Phillips of Roanoke,  Alabama , and Ed Christian of
Valdosta,  Georgia , were killed when a gunman opened fire
following a June 9 fight at an apartment complex in Auburn,
Alabama,  police said . Both were 20 years old, as was the third
person who died, Demario Pitts of Opelika, Alabama.  Three additional victims were taken to East Alabama Medical
Center for treatment of gunshot wounds, including Eric Mack, a
sophomore offensive lineman for the  Tigers . The shooter, who
fled the scene in a vehicle with two other people, remains at
large, Auburn police said.  “The only connection that the Auburn football team has to
this is they’re the victims of a brutal shooting,” Auburn
Police Chief Tommy Dawson said at a news conference. “Sometimes
the young men get a bad rap, I feel like, but they’re the
victims.”  Dawson said police, the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and
the U.S. Marshal’s Service are trying to find Desmonte Leonard,
22, of Montgomery, Alabama, who is wanted on three warrants for
capital murder. His vehicle was found abandoned.  Phillips was a fullback for Auburn last season, while
Christian didn’t play football because of a back injury.  “This is a sad, sad day for everyone associated with the
entire Auburn family,” Tigers coach Gene Chizik said in a
statement. “I am devastated by the passing of three young men,
including two that I personally knew in Ed Christian and
Ladarious Phillips and my heart goes out to their families.”  Chizik said Mack is expected to make a full recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  