-- Myanmar Aims to Quell Buddhist-Muslim Riots Near Bangladesh
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2012-06-11T09:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/myanmar-declares-emergency-to-contain-buddhist-muslim-fighting.html
Myanmar declared a state of
emergency in a western region bordering  Bangladesh  to prevent
clashes between Muslims and Buddhists from spreading or
threatening the country’s democratic transition.  President Thein Sein said in a televised address last night
that uncontrolled violence may hamper the goverment’s ability to
proceed with democratic reforms that prompted the U.S. and
European Union to suspend sanctions. Bangladesh border guards
are on alert to prevent Rohingya Muslims from entering the
country, Major Shafiqur Rahman said.  “The situation could deteriorate and could be extended
beyond Rakhine State if we are terrorizing and killing each
other with such sectarianism, endless hatred, the desire of
vengeance and anarchy,” Thein Sein said, according to the
state-run  New Light of Myanmar . Democratization “could be a
success only on the ground of peace and stability and the rule
of law,” he said.  Thein Sein  has struggled to maintain peace in border areas
filled with ethnic minorities as he moves to allow more
political freedom after about five decades of military rule.
Investors are watching for signs the shift to democracy is
sustainable while scouting opportunities in the country of 64
million people.  As many as 30 people were killed and hundreds of buildings
torched in rioting in Muslim-majority border towns, Myanmar’s
Eleven Media Group reported, citing an eyewitness account by one
of its reporters. Photos on its  website  showed thick smoke
rising above village roads and security forces with guns
standing close to groups of Rohingyas.  Alleged Rape  The unrest began after an alleged rape prompted a mob of
Rakhine Buddhists to murder 10 Rohingyas last week, Thein Sein’s
adviser, Ko Ko Hlaing, said on June 8. Myanmar imposed a dusk-
to-dawn curfew in four towns in Rakhine state and prohibited
more than five people from gathering in public areas, according
to the New Light of Myanmar.  “We have strengthened our vigilance along the border with
Myanmar,” said Rahman, second in command of Border Guard
Bangladesh 42 Battalion in Teknaf, the country’s southernmost
point bordering Myanmar. “In the morning, about 100 Rohingyas
in three trawlers tried to get into Bangladesh, but we did not
let them in,” he said by phone.  Fighting broke out yesterday in Sittwe, Rakhine’s capital,
leaving five people injured, the Irrawaddy news website
 reported , citing an unidentified hospital official. The Indian
Ocean port is the origin of oil and gas pipelines being built by
China National Petroleum Corp. that stretch to Yunnan province.  ‘Important Test’  Rohingyas,  Sunni Muslims  who are descended from Arab
traders, aren’t among the 135 ethnic groups officially
recognized by Myanmar’s government, which prevents them from
obtaining citizenship and traveling freely throughout the
country. Most live in three towns near the border with
Bangladesh, where about 265,000 Rohingyas live in or around
refugee camps, according to the  United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees .  In the early 1990s, Bangladesh forcibly repatriated about
50,000 Rohingyas to Myanmar, also known as Burma, before the two
countries allowed the UNHCR to observe the process, according to
 Human Rights Watch . From 2006 to 2010, 920 have been resettled
to third countries, mostly to  Canada ,  Australia  and the U.K.,
according to the UNHCR.  Thein Sein’s policies toward the Rohingya are largely
similar to those of the former junta even though his appeals to
stop ethnic hatred were positive, according to Phil Robertson,
deputy Asia director at New York-based  Human Rights Watch . The
government restricts access to Rakhine state, making it
difficult to verify reports coming from the area, he said.  The conflict “is probably one of the most trenchant and
difficult of the ethnic problems because it involves sectarian
hatred and violence between two groups within a state,”
Robertson said by phone. “This is an early but important test
of the government’s commitment to a multi-ethnic  Burma .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  