-- Yen Falls as IMF Says It’s Overvalued, Recommends Easing
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-06-12T14:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-11/yen-gains-versus-peers-before-italy-debt-sale-greek-vote.html
The yen weakened against most of its
major counterparts after the  International Monetary Fund  said
Japan’s currency was overvalued and the central bank should
consider further stimulus.  The euro weakened against a majority of its most-traded
peers as Spanish and Italian bond yields rose, signaling concern
about spreading of contagion of the bloc’s crisis. The  New
Zealand dollar  rose after an industry report showed  home prices 
climbed last month.  “The Japanese rhetoric, the IMF comments, expectations
that we’ll have some further policy easing from the Bank of
Japan, the main thing it does is shift the safe-haven role more
toward the  U.S. dollar  from the yen,” said  Vassili Serebriakov ,
a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “It’ll
take awhile to digest the Spanish news. We have the looming
Greek elections on Sunday, which are seen as a huge element of
uncertainty.”  The yen was little changed at 79.45 per dollar at 10:15
a.m. in New York, after falling as much as 0.3 percent. The euro
declined 0.3 percent to $1.2451.  Growth Currencies  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.2 percent to 82.697 after falling as
much as 0.2 percent.  The gauge may decline to a one-month low after it briefly
dropped to its 25-day moving average yesterday, according to
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of Japan’s largest
currency-margin company.  A decline below the average will signal the start of a
correction, with initial support at 80.49, said Takuya Kawabata,
a researcher at Gaitame.com in Tokyo. That’s the 61.8 percent
retracement of its advance from a May 1 low to a June 1 high, he
said, referring to Fibonacci analysis. Support refers to an area
where buy orders may be clustered.  Kiwi Strength  The kiwi advanced after the Real Estate Institute of New
Zealand Inc. said its index of  house prices  climbed 1.7 percent
in May from the previous month.  New Zealand’s currency gained 0.5 percent to 77.30 U.S.
cents.  Japan’s currency strengthened 7.9 percent in the past 12
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 8.5
percent, while the euro weakened 6.4 percent.  Japan should consider additional monetary stimulus,
including buying longer-maturity government bonds and private
securities, the IMF said in a report today.  “The  exchange rate  has appreciated over the past year
partly because of safe-haven capital inflows, and our analysis
suggests that the yen is moderately overvalued from a medium-
term perspective,” the IMF said. Intervention can be used to
counter volatile currency movements,  David Lipton , the fund’s
first deputy managing director, said in Tokyo.  Japan Policy  The BOJ, which starts a two-day policy meeting on June 14,
refrained from adding to monetary stimulus last month after
expanding its asset-purchase program in April. Japanese Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi  earlier this month pledged to take
“decisive” action on currencies after the yen climbed to 77.66
per dollar, the strongest since February.  “The IMF’s report clearly has an impact on the yen amid
speculation that there will be further easing measures from the
 Bank of Japan (8301) ,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European currency
strategy at Morgan Stanley in London.  The dollar weakened earlier after the Chicago Fed’s Evans
said he had been “in favor of pretty much any accommodative
policy.”  “More mortgage-backed securities purchases would be
good,” Evans said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop” with Betty Liu. Evans doesn’t vote on the
policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee this year.  Euro View  The euro rose earlier against the dollar amid speculation
the  European Central Bank  will resume its bond-buying program to
help contain the debt crisis. Spain asked for 100 billion euros
($125 billion) of aid for its banks on June 9.  “Despite the banking package, the market is still
wondering what and when the ECB will do something to calm the
market tension,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist
at Rabobank International in London.  The ECB bought Italian and Spanish  government bonds  last
year, using its Securities Markets Program, to try to stop the
debt crisis from spreading to the euro-region’s third- and
fourth-biggest economies. The program was put on hold earlier
this year after the central bank supplied 1 trillion euros of
three-year loans to euro-area banks in December and February.  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds rose 22 basis points, or
0.22 percentage point, to 6.25 percent, after reaching as high
as 6.239 percent. The yield on similar-maturity Spanish  debt 
touched 6.78 percent today, a euro-era record.  Greece is scheduled to hold elections on June 17 after a
previous vote last month failed to produce a viable governing
majority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 Dliedtka@bloomberg.net  