-- Sony’s ‘Think Like a Man’ Repeats as Weekend’s No. 1 Movie
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-04-30T22:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/-think-like-a-man-repeats-as-top-film-with-18-million-in-sales.html
“Think Like a Man” finished atop
the movie rankings in the U.S. and Canada for a second weekend,
collecting $17.6 million in receipts for Sony Corp.  Two new releases, “The Pirates! Band of Misfits” and
“The Five-Year Engagement,” opened in second and fifth places,
respectively, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in
an e-mailed statement.  Studios released lower-budget films with modest box-office
prospects ahead of a summer season that begins this coming
weekend with “Marvel’s The Avengers” from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) 
Other movies in the summer lineup include director  Christopher Nolan ’s “The Dark Knight Rises” for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner
Bros. and Sony’s “The Amazing Spider-Man.”  “Think Like a Man” has “some pretty good reviews and
some very good word-of-mouth,” said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at
Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New Jersey . “It was a quiet
week ahead of what will be the beginning of the summer season
and a really highly anticipated movie next week with ‘The
Avengers.’ Everything else will take a back seat.”  In “Think Like a Man,” four women unhappy with their men
use advice from Steve Harvey, author of “Act Like a Lady, Think
Like a Man.” The men learn of the tactics and fight back by
getting their own copies of the text. The picture features
Michael Ealy, Meagan Good and Taraji P. Henson.  ‘The Hunger Games’  Sony (6758) ’s animated “The Pirates! Band of Misfits” had $11.1
million in second place. The film about a sea bandit’s ambition
to win the Pirate of the Year award features the voices of  Hugh Grant , Martin Freeman and Brendan Gleeson.  “The Hunger Games” was third with $10.81 million. The
movie has generated $372 million in ticket sales for  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  since it was released on March 23. The film,
based on the Suzanne Collins novel, tells the story of a
dystopian society where teens are forced to fight to the death
in a televised competition. The picture stars  Jennifer Lawrence .  “The Lucky One” dropped to fourth from second with $10.80
million. The Warner Bros. movie stars  Zac Efron  as a returning
Iraq war veteran who searches for a girl he knows only from a
picture he found on a tour of duty. Taylor Schilling and Blythe Danner co-star.  “The Five-Year Engagement,” which had sales of $10.6
million, features  Jason Segel  and  Emily Blunt  as a couple who
can’t quite make it down the aisle. Chris Pratt and Alison Brie
co-star. The movie was produced at a cost of $30 million,
according to researcher Box Office Mojo, and was expected to
generate weekend sales of $22 million, the forecast of
Boxoffice.com.  ‘The Raven’  Sweeney blamed its weak opening on casting.  “It didn’t have A-list star quality to push to the top of
the rankings,” he said.  Among other new films, the Edgar Allan Poe mystery “The
Raven” was seventh, with sales of $7.3 million.  John Cusack plays the 19th century horror writer who joins
with a Baltimore detective to track down a serial killer whose
murders emulate methods used in the author’s stories. The film
is being distributed by Relativity Media LLC’s Rogue Pictures.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 33 percent to
$97.1 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Year-to-date attendance is up 17 percent, while revenue is up 14
percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
April 27 through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  