-- Abu Dhabi Shares Advance as Profit at Developers Rises
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-04-29T13:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/abu-dhabi-shares-set-for-biggest-rise-in-month-on-real-estate.html
Abu Dhabi’s benchmark stock index
advanced for the fourth time in five days after profit at the
emirate’s largest real estate developers rose on higher home
deliveries in the United Arab Emirates capital.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  gained the most in more than six
weeks after the Abu Dhabi developer bailed out by the government
last year said first-quarter profit more than doubled.  Sorouh
Real Estate PJSC (SOROUH) , the second-biggest developer in the emirate,
gained 1.8 percent after net income rose 30 percent. Abu Dhabi’s
 ADX General Index (ADSMI)  climbed 0.2 percent to 2,512.17 at the 2 p.m.
close in the emirate. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 (BGCC200)  Index slipped 0.4
percent.  “Real estate developers reported strong results in Abu
Dhabi and Dubai,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-
based Al Fajer Securities. “The results highlight strong
revenues from deliveries, land sales and investment portfolio.
This is a sign that the market is bottoming or near bottom.”  Aldar, which is building thousands of homes and offices in
 Abu Dhabi , received 36 billion dirhams ($9.8 billion) in
government support in 2011 after the emirate’s property market
slumped. The company and Sorouh are exploring a merger with the
support of Abu Dhabi’s government, which owns stakes in both.
Property prices in the U.A.E. capital slumped 50 percent after
the global credit crisis caused banks to tighten lending and
speculative buyers fled the market.  Sales Increase  Aldar shares rose 4.4 percent, the biggest gain since March
14, to 1.18 dirhams. Net income climbed to 478.2 million dirhams
from 189.1 million dirhams as the company delivered more
residential units and boosted revenue from land sales. Sorouh
increased to 1.15 dirhams in the highest close since April 15.
Net income gained to 83.6 million dirhams from 64.3 million
dirhams a year earlier as home deliveries increased, beating
estimates.  In neighboring Dubai,  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of
the world’s tallest skyscraper, increased 0.3 percent to 3.26
dirhams after quarterly net income rose 44 percent, also beating
analysts’ estimates.  Oil for June delivery gained 1.8 percent last week to
$104.93 in New York after the biggest increase in U.S. consumer
spending in more than a year and better-than-projected earnings
overshadowed lower-than-forecast economic growth. Gulf Arab oil
exporters, including Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E., supply about a
fifth of the world’s oil.  Egypt Stocks Fall  In North Africa, Egypt’s EGX 30 Index decreased 0.3
percent. Saudi Arabia postponed sending a delegation to Cairo to
negotiate lending Egypt $2.7 billion, Al Masry Al Youm reported,
citing an unidentified government official.  Saudi Arabia closed its embassy and consulates in the North
African country yesterday and recalled its ambassador because of
protests in front of its mission in Cairo.  Bahrain’s  BB All Share Index (BHSEASI)  and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  rose 0.3
percent, while Oman’s  MSM 30 Index (MSM30)  climbed 0.5 percent. The  DFM
General Index (DFMGI)  decreased 0.8 percent and Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul
All Share Index (SASEIDX)  fell 0.7 percent.  Kuwait’s Stock Exchange Price
Index (KWSEIDX)  was little changed.  In Israel, the TA-25 Index advanced 0.2 percent. The yield
on the country’s 5.5 percent notes due January 2022 declined one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.68 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  