-- Accretive Says It’s Working to Address Minnesota Concern
-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-04-30T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/accretive-says-it-s-working-to-address-minnesota-concerns-1-.html
Accretive Health Inc. (AH) , a hospital
billings-collection company, said it’s working with advisers to
address concerns raised by the Minnesota attorney general’s
office that it puts bedside pressure on patients to pay bills.  The claims “grossly distort and mischaracterize” its
revenue cycle services, the company said yesterday in a
statement. The suggestion Accretive puts bedside pressure on
patients to pay their bills out of pocket are a “flagrant
distortion of fact,” the company said.  Accretive shares tumbled by the most ever on April 25, just
after Minnesota Attorney General Lori Swanson issued a report
alleging Accretive violated U.S. and state patient-privacy and
debt-collection laws. She said patients at Fairview Health
Services, a Minnesota hospital chain, were pressured for payment
before they received care in some cases and that Accretive’s
debt collectors didn’t properly disclose their role. Swanson
filed a lawsuit on Jan. 19 against Accretive.  Chicago-based Accretive said in yesterday’s statement it
doesn’t deny access to patient care and the allegation is
“flatly untrue.”  Swanson said last week employees at Fairview, a nonprofit
chain of seven hospitals based in  Minneapolis , were required to
use a computer system derisively called “Blue Balls” to track
whether patients paid their bills. The payment system began
after Fairview hired Accretive in May 2010, Swanson said in her
 report  describing the companies’ relationship.  Credit Scores  Actions that Accretive used at Fairview included issuing
emergency room employees “scripts” for conversations with
patients that “can lead a patient or her family to believe the
patient will not receive treatment until payment is made,”
Swanson said.  Employees were instructed to ask for credit card payments,
tell patients they’d wait for them to retrieve their checkbooks
from their cars, or if the patients said they couldn’t pay,
remind them that debt-collection activities “can affect your
credit score,” according to the scripts.  Accretive said late on April 27 that Fairview had canceled
its contract with them, adding it didn’t know yet how the
cancellation would affect its business. Accretive said it would
provide an update on its May 9 quarterly financial call.  Earlier that same day, Representative Pete Stark, a
California Democrat, asked U.S. health officials to investigate
Accretive’s practices.  Federal law prohibits hospitals from denying emergency care
to anyone, regardless of their ability to pay.  Shares of Accretive Health  fell $1.17 to $9.33 in New York
trading on April 27. The stock is down 59 percent year to date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net . 