-- Haemonetics to Buy Pall’s Blood Business for $551 Million
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-04-29T17:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/haemonetics-to-buy-assets-of-pall-corporation-s-hemerus-medical.html
Haemonetics Corp. (HAE) , a maker of
equipment to collect blood and plasma, agreed to buy the blood-
collection business of  Pall Corp. (PLL)  for $551 million in cash to
bolster the products it can offer to blood centers.  Braintree, Massachusetts-based Haemonetics will pay $536
million and the remainder will be paid once it receives certain
filter media manufacturing assets by 2016, the company said in a
statement.  Pall’s sales for the business excluding revenue from
Haemonetics was $210 million for the fiscal year ended July
2011, and today’s purchase price is equal to about eight times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
Haemonetics said.  The company will gain Pall’s manufacturing facilities in
Covina,  California ; Tijuana, Mexico; Ascoli, Italy; and part of
Pall’s assets in Fajardo,  Puerto Rico . About 1,300 workers are
employed at the plants.  Haemonetics said it expects the transaction to be neutral
to per-share earnings in fiscal 2013 and to add to earnings in
fiscal 2014 and beyond.  Separately, Haemonetics said it will pay as much as $27
million for closely held Hemerus Medical LLC, a developer of
technology to collect whole blood, processing and storage of
blood components. The payment amount is subject to successful
Food and Drug Administration approval of the company’s SOLX
whole blood collection system.  Haemonetics said it will host a webcast to discuss the
transaction and its fiscal fourth-quarter results tomorrow
morning at 8 a.m., two hours earlier than planned. Pall,
headquartered in  Port Washington , New York, said it will hold a
webcast at 10 a.m. to discuss the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  