-- Analysts See Record S&P 500 as Advance Over for Barclays
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-04-30T20:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/analysts-see-record-s-p-500-as-2012-advance-over-for-barclays.html
Analysts predict  U.S. shares will
rise enough this year to boost the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
to a record, even as Wall Street strategists say the best is
already over for American equities.  Individual price forecasts for stocks show the combined
projection for the benchmark gauge has climbed to 1,569.74,
according to more than 10,000 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with the  October 2007 high  of 1,565.15.
At the same time, strategists who base their predictions on
assessments of the economy say this year’s 12 percent rally
represents all the gains investors will see.  Bullish forecasts are based on analysts’ expectations that
 S&P 500 earnings  will reach records every year through 2014 as
stimulus by the  Federal Reserve  props up the U.S. economy. More
than 70 percent of companies have  exceeded estimates  with first-
quarter results. Bears say Europe’s debt crisis won’t be
contained and economic growth will be insufficient to maintain
gains that have restored more than $3 trillion to U.S. equities
in six months.  “The financial strength of corporate America is stronger
than people believe,” Jeffrey Schwarte, a  money manager  who
helps oversee about $258.2 billion in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , at
Principal Global Investors, said in a telephone interview on
April 25. “We believe earnings ultimately matter.”  Apple, Boeing  Stocks rose last week, pushing the  S&P 500  up 1.8 percent
to 1,403.36, as earnings topped estimates at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the
world’s largest company by market value, and Boeing Co., the
biggest aerospace company. Computer and software providers,
telecommunications companies and banks and brokerages are
topping estimates by more than 10 percent on average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The benchmark gauge for American equities has climbed 107
percent since March 2009, pulling within 12 percent of its
record high. The measure is up 27 percent after falling to a
one-year low Oct. 3 as U.S. unemployment dropped from 9.1
percent to 8.2 percent in seven months. The S&P 500 slipped 0.4
percent to 1,397.91 in  New York  today.  About 75 percent of the companies in the benchmark measure
that reported results since April 10 have exceeded Wall Street
earnings projections, beating by an average of 7.1 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest rate
in four quarters, the data show. Eight of the  10 groups  in the
index have delivered income that surpassed projections.  Record Profits  Analysts are signaling that 13 straight quarters of higher-
than-expected earnings and record profits through 2014 will help
drive the gauge back to its all-time high.  Earnings will jump  14
percent to $105.12 a share in 2012, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Record profits have failed to convince strategists that the
S&P 500 will advance further. As much as $770 billion was wiped
off the values of U.S. equities after the measure peaked on
April 2, amid concern over  Europe ’s debt crisis and slower-than-
estimated U.S. jobs growth.  The benchmark index will end this year at 1,384, or 1.4
percent below its close on April 27, according to the average of
11 strategists tracked by Bloomberg. While earnings topped
projections, they’ve spurred average post-earnings daily gains
of just 1 percent in companies that exceeded estimates. That
compares with a five-year average of 1.3 percent, Bloomberg data
show.  ‘Policy Uncertainty’  “When companies beat, their stocks are basically unchanged
relative to the market,” Barry Knapp, the New York-based head
of equity strategy at Barclays Plc, said in a telephone
interview on April 27. “What drives real secular bull markets
is multiple expansion. Massive policy uncertainty exists today
in both monetary and public policy. Settling those two issues is
a necessary condition to have another bull market.”  Knapp says the S&P 500 will fall to 1,330 at the end of the
year. Strategists’ mean forecast for the S&P 500 has been below
stock analysts’ projection for the index since at least April 1,
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread
reached its widest level since then on April 27.  Gina  Martin Adams , the New York-based equity strategist for
 Wells Fargo & Co ., said the S&P 500 will fall to 1,360 as the
Fed ends its Operation Twist, a plan to swap $400 billion of
short-term debt in its portfolio with long-term securities to
lengthen the average maturity of its holdings. The federal
 budget deficit  and slowest  post-recession expansion  since World
War II are holding valuations down, she said.  ‘More Downside’  “The market is set up for a little more downside than
upside risk, more because of policy reasons than anything,”
Adams said in a telephone interview on April 25. “It’s not
really an earnings question, but more of a valuation question.
Over the last three years in every instance the Fed has finished
one of its major programs, stocks have suffered.”  The S&P 500 slid last year to a two-year low of 11.9 times
 reported profit  after the Fed’s second round of quantitative
easing ended, Europe’s crisis intensified and American lawmakers
debated raising the federal debt limit. While the gauge’s
multiple has since rebounded to 14.3, it’s still below the six-
decade historical average of 16.4, Bloomberg data show.  Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said he is more optimistic about
markets than some economists.  “Gun to my head, I tend to be a little bit more positive
than what I’m hearing from other people,” he said during an
April 25 interview on Bloomberg Television with  Erik Schatzker .
“The world is a little bit bifurcated between what economists
are saying and what market people are saying.”  Delivery Demand  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , a barometer for the economy because it
delivers goods from mobile electronics to pharmaceuticals, may
reach  $123 a share , surpassing the record $120.97 in February
2007, according to  Justin Yagerman , an analyst at Deutsche Bank
AG. While European demand remains a risk and has hurt Asian
exports, the world’s largest cargo airline is cheaper than five
years ago. The Memphis, Tennessee-based company closed at $88.27
last week.  “Slowing European demand has been a risk factor, though
commentary anecdotally from companies has been that Europe has
probably held up better than expected,” New York-based Yagerman
said in a telephone interview on April 25. “We take an
optimistic view on global growth over the long term. Over the
near term, we’re extremely bullish on domestic U.S. growth and a
lot of that’s driven by e-commerce and by pricing.”  Macy’s Rallies  Daniela Nedialkova, a London-based analyst for Atlantic
Equities LLP, predicts  Macy’s Inc. (M)  will jump to $51 a share, 9.7
percent above its March 2007 record of $46.51. While  annual
sales  at the department-store operator have slipped 2.1 percent
since 2007, the Cincinnati-based company has improved its
inventory management systems and product lines in the last five
years, she said. Macy’s rallied 5.4 percent last week to $41.19.  “2007 was still very much in the consumer spending boom
years,” Nedialkova said in a telephone interview on April 26.
“Versus how the company looked in 2007, I think it’s in so much
better shape,” she said. “The way I’m modeling sales growth at
Macy’s is actually thinking about market-share gains. If the
economy actually improved, that would help.”  Gross domestic product in the U.S. will expand 2.3 percent
this year, according to the median economist projection,
compared with 1.7 percent in 2011 and 3 percent in 2010.
Economists forecast the euro area will contract 0.4 percent and
 China  will expand at the slowest pace since 2001.  “The  U.S. economy  is going to grow faster than people
think, so I think we’re going to not have a recession,”  Byron Wien , the New York-based vice chairman of the advisory services
unit at Blackstone Group LP, the world’s biggest private-equity
firm, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television with  Tom Keene  last week.  The Federal Reserve suggested “growth is going to be
better than expected,” Wien said. “Earnings are going to be
good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  