-- Apple Uses Office Locations to Minimize Tax Burden, NYT Reports
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-04-29T13:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/apple-uses-office-locations-to-minimize-tax-burden-nyt-reports.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  uses offices in states
other than California, where it’s headquartered, and countries
outside the U.S. to help minimize its overall tax burden, the
New York Times reported.  The company has an office in Reno, Nevada, to collect and
invest its profits and avoid paying California’s 8.84 percent
corporate  tax rate  on some of its gains, the newspaper said.
Nevada’s tax rate is zero, the Times said. The method, which is
legal, is one of many that enables the iPad and iPhone maker to
reduce its tax bill by billions of dollars each year, the
newspaper said in a story published today.  Former Treasury Department economist  Martin Sullivan 
estimates Apple paid cash taxes of $3.3 billion worldwide on
posted profit of $34.2 billion last year, and would have paid
$2.4 billion more in U.S. taxes without the arrangement it has,
the newspaper said.  Technology companies, due to a  tax code  skewed to an
industrial age and not a digital one, are among the least-taxed
businesses in the U.S., the Times said, citing government and
corporate data.  Bloomberg News reported in October 2010 that  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
cut its taxes by $3.1 billion in the three years prior using
strategies known as the “Double Irish” and “Dutch Sandwich,”
reducing its tax rate internationally to 2.4 percent.  Apple told the Times it “pays an enormous amount of taxes,
which help our local, state and federal governments.” The
company said its U.S. operations generated about $5 billion in
federal and state income taxes in the first half of fiscal 2012,
the newspaper reported.  The company also has subsidiaries in Luxembourg, Ireland
and the British Virgin Islands that allow it to pay lower taxes
on royalties or processed transactions, the newspaper said,
citing former Apple executives. Apple declined to comment on its
operations in  Nevada  or the other countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net . 