-- Arizona Leads U.S. in Real Immigration Reform
-- B y   J o h n   C .   E a s t m a n
-- 2012-04-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/arizona-leads-u-s-in-real-immigration-reform.html
One’s heart really has to go out to
Solicitor General Donald Verrilli.  Last month, in one of the most high-profile cases heard by
the U.S. Supreme Court in decades, the litigation position of
his client -- the U.S. government under the administration of
President  Barack Obama  -- forced Verrilli to argue on one day
that the penalty imposed by the individual mandate provisions of
the Affordable Care Act was not a tax that would deprive the
court of jurisdiction under the  Anti-Injunction Act , but argue
the very next day that it was a tax for the purposes of
determining Congress’s constitutional authority to adopt the
act.  The administration’s position also led him to argue on Day
2 that the individual mandate was a core part of the act, but on
Day 3 that, if unconstitutional, the individual mandate could be
severed from the rest of the statute because it was not a core
part of the act.  Then, last week, Verrilli’s client’s position compelled him
to argue that the Obama administration’s unwritten policy of
non-enforcement of federal immigration law prevented the states
from helping to enforce those very same laws, because of the
Supremacy Clause, which makes the Constitution and laws of the
U.S. (not the policy preferences of a particular executive) the
supreme law of the land.  Even Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , widely presumed to be an
opponent of Arizona’s S.B. 1070 immigration law, had to tell the
solicitor general that his argument was “not selling very
well.”  Politics, Not Law  The  Justice Department ’s litigation position was always
based much more on politics than law. Attorney General Eric Holder claimed shortly after Arizona adopted S.B. 1070 that the
law would lead to racial profiling, though he later had to admit
he had not even read the law before leveling that charge.  Verrilli had to disavow that claim in response to the very
first question, before he could even begin his argument.
Predictably, the department’s other arguments also withered
under the scrutiny of the intense questioning by the justices on
the highest court in the land. Verrilli had to admit, for
example, that even before the  Arizona law  was passed,  Arizona 
law enforcement could question the legal immigration status of
people whom they lawfully stopped, if they had probable cause to
believe that the individual was present in this country
illegally. He could not identify a single example where federal
law enforcement discretion (as opposed to federal laws
themselves) had been held to pre-empt state law.  In one of the most damning statements of the day, Chief
Justice  John Roberts  stated, after listening to Verrilli’s
argument, that “It seems to me that the federal government just
doesn’t want to know who is here illegally or not.”  Justice  Anthony Kennedy  then weighed in with this: “So
you’re saying the government has a legitimate interest in not
enforcing its laws?”  And in response to the solicitor general’s argument that
the president had diplomatic reasons for his non-enforcement
policies, Justice  Antonin Scalia  chided the solicitor general
with this: “So we have to enforce our laws in a manner that
will please  Mexico . Is that what you’re saying?”  Those statements, and many others like them, by a solid
majority of the court do not bode well for the government’s
position that the “ask when stopped” provisions of Arizona’s
law are pre-empted by federal executive enforcement policy.  In fact, the government’s argument that it had to set
enforcement priorities because of limited resources was flatly
inconsistent with Arizona’s attempts to provide a force
multiplier for enforcement of existing federal immigration law.
The court seemed well inclined to uphold these provisions of the
Arizona law, the ones that have generated the most controversy.  Employee Sanctions Questioned  The provision of the Arizona law allowing the state to
prosecute illegal immigrants who unlawfully seek employment
(rather than just the employers, as federal law provides) is on
less certain ground. The justices appeared to be leaning toward
accepting the federal government’s argument that when it imposed
sanctions only on  employers  of illegal immigrants rather than
the employees themselves, Congress implicitly intended to leave
the illegal-immigrant employees alone. This prevented the states
from imposing their own sanctions on the employees under what is
known as “field pre-emption.”  If that is the only provision that does not survive the
 Supreme Court ’s ruling, expected in late June, most of the
Arizona law, including the most significant and high-profile
provisions, will go back into effect as early as July. The other
states that have adopted similar immigration-enforcement laws
while this litigation has been pending will likewise be able to
start enforcing their laws. And we can probably expect to see
several other states weigh in with new laws of their own, once
the Supreme Court gives them the green light.  This will be a good experiment in an “enforcement first”
strategy, while the administration and Congress continue to
debate, ad nauseam, a comprehensive immigration reform.  (John C. Eastman is the Henry Salvatori professor of law
and community service and former dean at Chapman University
School of Law in Orange,  California . He filed a brief in support
of Arizona, on behalf of the Center for Constitutional
Jurisprudence and several members of Congress, in the Arizona v.
United States case. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau  and the  healing power of zinc ; William D.
Cohan on the  federal debt ;  Simon Johnson  on  German unions ;
Richard G. Sloan on  fair-value accounting . 