-- Harper Gets First Major League RBI in Nationals’ Loss to Dodgers
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-29T06:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/harper-gets-first-major-league-rbi-in-nationals-loss-to-dodgers.html
Washington Nationals leftfielder
Bryce Harper hit a double and drove in a run in his Major League
Baseball debut that was marred by  Matt Kemp ’s walk-off home run
in the 10th inning that gave the  Los Angeles Dodgers  a 4-3
victory.  Harper, the top pick of the 2010 draft, was called up from
the minors two days ago to replace  Ryan Zimmerman , who was
placed on the 15-day disabled list.  “I really didn’t have butterflies at all,” the 19-year-
old told reporters. “I think that’s one of the first times I’ve
never gotten butterflies. I was sitting in the dugout before the
game and I was thinking to myself: ‘Wow, I’m in the big
leagues.’”  Harper, who was 1-for-3 last night, hit a double in the
seventh inning, and then blasted a sacrifice fly in the ninth to
send home Rick Ankiel and give the Nationals a 2-1 lead before
Juan Uribe tied the game by hitting a run-scoring ground-rule
double and then scoring on Henry Rodriguez’s wild pitch.  “The kid played a heck of a ballgame,” manager  Davey Johnson  said in a televised interview. “He was great. He had
nothing but quality bats.”  Pitcher  Stephen Strasburg , the No. 1 pick in the 2009
draft, struck out nine batters in seven innings before he was
relieved. He allowed one run on five hits for the Nationals (14-
7), who lead the  National League East .  “Strasburg was outstanding,” Johnson said. “A lot of
good things -- just a bad ending.”  Fourth Home Run  Adam LaRoche gave the Nationals a 1-0 lead in the seventh
inning with his fourth home run of the season. A.J. Ellis tied
the game on a run-scoring single in the seventh for the Dodgers
(15-6), who lead the NL West.  Harper hit his RBI in the ninth and Wilson Ramos followed
with a run-scoring single to put the Nationals ahead 3-1.  “My dad told me: ‘Just to go out and have fun. It’s the
same game you’ve been playing your whole life,’” Harper told
reporters.  Jamey Wright (1-0) pitched a perfect inning, striking out
two for the win. Tom Gorzelanny (1-1) took the loss on Kemp’s
home run.  At Yankee Stadium, Drew Smyly got his first major league
victory as the  Detroit Tigers  defeated the New York Yankees 7-5
to even the three-game series at 1-1.  Dirks’s Homer  Detroit ’s Andy Dirks hit a three-run homer in the first
inning to give the Tigers a 3-0 lead, while  Nick Swisher  hit the
first of his two solo home runs for the Yankees (11-9) to narrow
the gap to 3-1.  Brennan Boesch doubled to score Alex Avila and  Miguel Cabrera  hit a single to send home Austin Jackson and Boesch as
the Tigers (11-10) moved ahead 6-1 in the second inning. Cabrera
hit a solo home run in the eighth.  Curtis Granderson  had a home run in the seventh and Swisher
tallied his second home run while Granderson hit a run-scoring
single and then scored on  Raul Ibanez ’s double in the ninth
inning for the Yankees.  Smyly allowed one run on two hits and struck out seven in
six innings for the win.  Freddy Garcia  gave up six runs on five
hits in 1 2/3rds innings.  In other American League games, it was the Los Angeles
Angels 2, Cleveland 1; Toronto 7, Seattle 0; Baltimore 10,
Oakland 1; Boston 1, the Chicago White Sox 0; and Texas 7, Tampa
Bay 2. Rain forced the cancellation of the Kansas City-Minnesota
game which will be played as part of a day-night doubleheader on
June 30.  In the National League, it was St. Louis 7, Milwaukee 3;
Cincinnati 6, Houston 0; Philadelphia 5, the Chicago Cubs 2;
Pittsburgh 4, Atlanta 2; Miami 3, Arizona 2; the New York Mets
7, Colorado 5; and San Francisco 2, San Diego 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  