-- Bankers Were Stupid to Take Bailout, Lanchester Says
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-04-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/bankers-were-stupid-to-take-bailout-lanchester-says-interview.html
John Lanchester ’s banker father
hated talking about money. His career advice? Do what you love
while you’re young; worry about earning a living later. And so
Lanchester junior became a writer -- a successful one.  Yet in midlife, he’s taught himself the language of
finance. In 2010 he published “Whoops!” (called “I.O.U.” in
the U.S.), a layman’s attempt at unraveling the credit crisis.
Now comes “Capital,” a novel set just before the crisis and
focused on a fictional street in the London neighborhood of
Clapham, where he lives.  On a recent morning, Lanchester tossed a denim blazer over
a chair at his local Starbucks and sat down with a double
espresso to talk about the bailout,  London ’s relationship with
the City and the British obsession with real estate.  Anderson: How did “Capital” begin for you?  Lanchester: I started thinking about it at the end of 2005.
I wanted to write about London. The first time I heard somebody
in the world of money describe it as the capital of the world I
was slightly taken aback. That wasn’t reflected in anything
anyone wrote outside the financial press.  That was the germ of it -- that, combined with the feeling
that there was a property boom and the bust would come.  Boom-Bust Story  Anderson:  Lehman Brothers  collapsed just as you finished
your first draft. How did that affect the novel?  Lanchester: It didn’t change its architecture -- the shape
of a boom-bust narrative is identical even though the specifics
are really different. But I wanted to understand the credit
crisis.  Obviously you can stash money under your mattress, cut down
on hazelnut lattes, but in terms of the larger economic frame of
our lives, we have very little agency. About one of the only
things you can do is understand it.  Anderson: You weren’t tempted to fold your research back
into “Capital” rather than write another whole book?  Lanchester: You can’t explain collateralized debt
obligation in a novel -- it’s too draggy. Also, there are so
many things about the crisis that are only interesting because
they actually happened. Fact doesn’t have to be plausible; it
just has to be fact.  Anderson: The looming crisis barely impinges on most of the
novel’s characters.  Lanchester: People then didn’t know what was coming. I’m
not sure they still fully do, actually. They talk about the
recovery as if it’s like getting over a cold.  Father’s Legacy  Anderson: Your father was a banker at HSBC, right?  Lanchester: Yes, in a different age. Dad was a very, very
principled man and he hated any kind of story where the baddies
get away with it. That’s part of my outrage.  Anderson: Is that how you view the bailout?  Lanchester: I think the banks won 2008 at an incredibly
high price. By allowing themselves to become so unpopular and
losing control of the narrative, they did something incredibly,
stupidly damaging in the medium term.  It’s strange that they’ve changed the bonus rules so much
and that’s had no effect on the debate. It’s very difficult to
shift those narratives once they’ve got to a particular place.  Anderson: How do you see that debate progressing?  Tiptoeing Underground  Lanchester: It might be that in terms of an accommodation
between the financial sector and the rest of society we never
reach one, but at least now we know what the City does roughly,
and the contribution it makes.  That’s more grown-up than mutual ignorance, where the City
consciously tries not to disturb the natives, to walk as quietly
as it can through the Underground.  Anderson: How has the City responded to “Capital’s”
banker and his shopaholic wife?  Lanchester: A couple of people asked whether Arabella is
based on their ex-wives. I’ve had a variety of responses to
Roger. Some say he must have been modeled on their ex-boss,
others say someone like that wouldn’t last ten minutes. A lot of
the City is still in love with this version of itself as a
uniquely meritocratic and competitive culture, which in my view
is balls.  Anderson: “Capital” is partly a story about real estate.
How will our national obsession translate in foreign editions?  Lanchester: Americans get it but the Europeans by and large
don’t. It’s evidence-free my theory about that, but I do wonder
if it’s linked to the fact that America and Britain are the
countries that have the most liberalized markets and are
physically mobile, and whether that causes people to be obsessed
with owning a home.  It is obviously mad. There’s a sense in which the British
are a tribe, dancing around houses going wa-wa-wah.  “Capital” is published by Faber in the U.K. and will be
published in the U.S. by Norton on June 11 (577 pages, 17.99
pounds, $26.95). To pre-order this book in  North America , click
 here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and James
Pressley on  business books .  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 