-- Bezeq Rises Most in 2 Weeks on Dividend, Rules: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-04-29T11:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/bezeq-rises-most-in-2-weeks-on-dividend-rules-tel-aviv-mover.html
  Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication
Corp. (BEZQ)  advanced the most in almost two weeks after confirming a
dividend payment of 1.57 billion shekels ($419 million) in May
and amid investor bets it will benefit from regulation changes.  The  shares  of the Tel Aviv-based company advanced 3.2
percent, the steepest gain since April 17, to 6.313 shekels at
2:44 p.m. in  Tel Aviv , trimming the stock’s decline this year to
9.6 percent.  “The market is reacting favorably to the fact that Bezeq
is paying out a dividend,” said Gilad Alper, a senior analyst
at Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. in  Ramat Gan . “More
than the dividend payment, what matters is that the fundamentals
for the company are looking good.”  As part of a new policy for the telecommunications market,
the Ministry of Communications will set a date to cancel the
state-enforced structural division of Bezeq, the ministry said
on April 17. This would allow Bezeq to integrate business lines
-- such as Internet or satellite television -- rather than
running them as separate units and allowing for cost savings.
The government’s new policy, which will allow new entrants to
buy space on networks owned by existing companies, such as Bezeq
and  Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT) , will also eliminate state
supervision of prices.  “The lifting of the state supervision of prices and the
fact that the lease of the network prices will be set through
negotiations, almost guarantees that the wholesale market will
not become a serious factor for Bezeq,” Alper said. Bezeq has
risen 8.2 percent since the ministry’s announcement.  Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD) , which has a stake in Bezeq
via its  B Communications Ltd. (BCOM)  unit, advanced 3.2 percent to
23.15 shekels, the highest since April 24. B Communications,
owner of a 31 percent interest in Bezeq, advanced 4.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  