-- Billionaire Mittal Says ‘Not Giving Up’ on Indian Economy
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-04-29T18:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/billionaire-mittal-says-not-giving-up-on-indian-economy.html
Billionaire Lakshmi N. Mittal, who
chose  India  for his first investment in crude oil processing,
said the nation’s economy will continue to expand, unaffected by
slowing reforms and delays in government’s decision-making.  “The India story is not over,” Mittal, chairman of the
world’s biggest steelmaker ArcelorMittal, said in New Delhi
yesterday. “Whatever may happen in terms of policies and
paralysis, the country will continue to grow.”  Mittal, with a net worth of $18.7 billion, said India is on
his “priority list” as a rising middle-class population will
spur demand while it may take at least five years for Europe to
recover from its debt crisis. His optimism on Asia’s third-
biggest economy contrasts with  Standard & Poor’s , which cut the
nation’s sovereign credit outlook last week, citing slowing
investments and growth.  “I am not giving up,” Mittal said. “There has been some
slowdown. But you can’t ignore India.”  Economy of the world’s second-most populous country
expanded 6.1 percent in the three months ended Dec. 31, the
 slowest  pace in almost three years, as costlier credit hurt
 consumer spending  and dented investments. India’s central bank
cut  interest rates  on April 17 for the first time since 2009 to
help bolster growth.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s administration is facing
one of the most challenging periods since taking office in 2004.
Rifts in the ruling coalition have hampered efforts to push
through various legislation, including a move to allow overseas
retailers like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   $20 Billion  Mittal’s energy unit opened a $4 billion refinery in the
Northern Punjab state in a venture with India’s  Hindustan
Petroleum Corp. (HPCL)  on April 28. ArcelorMittal has $20 billion of
planned projects in the states of Odisha and Jharkhand.  Mittal Energy also has a venture with India’s Oil & Natural
Gas Corp., which has offshore oil exploration blocks in Nigeria,
according to ONGC’s overseas unit. In the Punjab refinery, run
by HPCL-Mittal Energy Ltd., the partners own 49 percent each.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  plans to invest in expanding its existing
mining operations and some steel projects in Canada, Liberia and
Brazil, Mittal said. Allocation of mining rights in India has to
become more transparent, he said. The company has waited for
more than six years because of delays in securing approvals and
land for its Indian steel projects.  Steel consumption in  China  will increase by 4 percent this
year, Mittal said. Demand will rise as much as 8 percent in the
U.S. while that in Europe may slow, he said.  The European Union “continues to be slow and it’ll
probably be 2016-17 for it to emerge at the pre-crisis levels of
2008,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  