-- Cameron Faces Questioning Over Call for Hunt BSkyB Probe
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-04-30T15:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/cameron-backs-hunt-over-bskyb-bid-rejects-demands-for-probe.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
fended off renewed calls for a probe into allegations that
Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  broke ministerial rules after an
aide passed sensitive information to  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA)   Hunt “acted fairly and impartially” when he was deciding
last year whether to approve News Corp.’s takeover bid for
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , Cameron told lawmakers in
London today, responding to an emergency question by opposition
 Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband .  Hunt’s adviser,  Adam Smith , resigned last week after e-
mails showed he offered inside information on the minister’s
views to a News Corp. lobbyist. Cameron said there was no need
for a separate inquiry into Hunt’s behaviour because the culture
secretary will testify on the issue next month to the Leveson
Inquiry into media ethics.  “I will not wait until the end of the Leveson Inquiry to
take action if action is necessary,” Cameron said, with Hunt
sitting next to him on the government front bench in the House
of Commons. “It is neither necessary nor right to have a
parallel investigation.”  The Hunt affair is the latest embarrassment for a
government that’s been beset by bad publicity for more than a
month. Moves in the March 21 budget to penalize pensioners while
cutting the top income-tax rate and a  return to recession  have
pushed support for Cameron’s Conservatives to an eight-year low,
according to a poll published yesterday. Local elections,
including the  London  mayoral vote, will be held May 3.  “The culture secretary is in clear breach of the
ministerial code and the prime minister stands by and does
nothing,” Miliband told lawmakers.  Leveson Rigor  Cameron said that the Leveson hearings would take place
“all live on television” and a probe by a civil servant would
not be “this tough or this rigorous.”  He added, “If any information comes out at any stage
showing that anyone breached the ministerial code then of course
I will act.”  Cameron defended his dealings with News Corp. following a
week in which Murdoch, the company’s chairman and chief
executive officer, and his son James, testified to the Leveson
Inquiry about the BSkyB bid, the phone-hacking scandal that
caused their News of the World tabloid to close and their links
with politicians.  “There never has been any grand bargain between the
Conservative Party and Rupert or  James Murdoch ,” Cameron said.  “The prime minister is too close to a powerful few, out of
touch with everyone else,” Miliband said. “Weak and wrong,”
Cameron replied.  A  YouGov Plc poll  for the Sunday Times newspaper showed
Conservative support dropping to 29 percent, the lowest level
since 2004, 11 points behind Labour. YouGov questioned 1,717
adults on April 26 and 27 for the poll, for which no margin of
error was given. The survey also found that Cameron’s approval
rating had fallen to its lowest ever, while 59 percent of
respondents thought Hunt should quit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  