-- Carney Says Global Banks Resisting Reforms That Dent Profit
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-04-29T15:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/carney-says-global-banks-resisting-reforms-that-dent-profit.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said global regulators must overcome resistance from financial
institutions to new rules that may reduce trading profits as
they also guard against another credit crunch.  Carney, who is also chairman of the Financial Stability
Board, made the comment during an interview on “The West Block
with Tom Clark” on Global Television today.  “We’re a little more than halfway along this process of
financial reform and this is really the tough bit because this
is where, you know, momentum could flag,” Carney said. “You
get the pushback from the industry and so we have to maintain
those efforts and we certainly can.”  Carney cited the Group of 20’s push to move derivatives
trading through new  clearinghouses  as an example of conflict
with bankers in the Global interview. The proposal would replace
a less resilient system where individual banks have a larger
role and markets seize up when they struggle, Carney said,
citing the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “Every trade has to be registered, every trade has to be
revealed,” Carney said in the Global interview. “It’s
understandable, but it’s not in the greater good to give into
that pushback.”  On Canada’s economy, Carney reiterated that the main risks
include the spread of  Europe ’s debt crisis and high levels of
domestic consumer debt.  Europe Risk  “Europe is the biggest external risk,” Carney said. “It
takes the other half of my time that I don’t spend on  Canada ; if
it’s not derivatives and financial reform, it’s on working on
European issues and we will evaluate and adjust policy if
necessary.” European leaders have done enough to make sure
their problems “should be contained” he said.  Carney also said that he will take global “risks” into
account when setting interest rates and that his main
consideration remains meeting the central bank’s 2 percent
 inflation  target. The Bank of Canada’s key interest rate has
been 1 percent since September 2010.  “As the expansion progresses, it may become appropriate to
reduce some of that considerable monetary policy stimulus we
have in place,” Carney said, reiterating comments he’s made
over the last few weeks.  Canadian families must ensure they don’t take on debts that
will become unaffordable when  interest rates  rise, Carney said
in the Global interview.  “What we’re really concerned about on an individual basis
is, it’s the people that come in at the end of the condo-boom if
you will,” he said. “It’s the people who stretch for that last
dollar to get the house, that they’re the ones who are the most
impacted by this situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 