-- Chrysler’s Dart Dodges Parts Snags as Plant Nears Start
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-04-29T23:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/chrysler-s-dart-dodges-parts-snags-as-plant-nears-start.html
Chrysler Group LLC’s Dodge Dart,
the automaker’s most important new model since its rescue by
 Fiat (F)  SpA, is overcoming snags before the start of production and
will have a high-mileage version ready in the third quarter.  Finished Darts will start rolling off the assembly line May
3, said George Welitschinsky, president of United Auto Workers
Local 1268 in Belvidere,  Illinois .  Sergio Marchionne , Chrysler
and Fiat’s chief executive officer, alluded to an issue with an
unspecified part last week on a conference call with analysts.
He had previously said production would begin in early April.  “We’re working with our suppliers,” Welitschinsky said in
an April 27 phone interview. “Very shortly, that’s not going to
be an issue. We’re rolling, we’re putting it out, we’re moving
forward.”  Dart is the biggest test of the almost three-year
partnership between Chrysler and Fiat, which took control of the
 Auburn Hills , Michigan-based carmaker during its 2009
bankruptcy. Turin, Italy-based Fiat pledged its small-car
expertise to the combination, seeking scale that would spread
fixed costs such as engineering and design. Dart is the first
Chrysler car based on a Fiat architecture.  “This is the first roll-out of true collaboration,”
 Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with IHS Automotive, said in a
phone interview. Chrysler and Fiat “are in each other’s parts
bins. You’re getting some benefit at the Dodge brand level and
compact-car level from a premium product in Giulietta.”  Aero Package  In the third quarter, Chrysler will offer Dart, based on
the Alfa Romeo Giulietta, with a package called Aero that
achieves 41 miles (66 kilometers) per gallon in highway driving,
Richard Cox, director of the Dodge brand, told reporters last
week in Austin,  Texas .  The Aero package will be offered on the base-level trim
 Dart SE . With options including 12 exterior colors, 14 interior
color combinations and three different engines and transmissions
to choose from, buyers will be able to modify Dart in 100,000
different ways, Cox said.  “We’re really dialing up the customization,” he said. The
number of options will set Dart apart in the compact-car segment
that buyers associate with “bland and boring.”  Marchionne, 59, said Chrysler was dealing with an
“important issue” related to a component used in the Dart
before the company’s April 26 conference call.  “If I told you the preparation for the launch has been a
walk on the park, I’d be lying through my teeth,” he told
analysts and reporters.  Guided Selection  Chrysler will guide dealers and customers into a selection
of configurations of Dart and leave the option for customization
mostly to the more expensive iterations, Marchionne said. It
would be “a bloody nightmare” if the Belvidere plant were to
operate with 100,000 combinations of the model, he said on the
call.  Dart will start at $15,995, excluding a $795 destination
charge, the company said in an April 16  statement  on its
website. The top-level trim Dart R/T will start at $22,495,
according to the statement.  Fiat boosted its stake in Chrysler to 58.5 percent from
53.5 percent after the commitment to build a car that achieves
at least 40 mpg.  Earning that 5 percent of Chrysler ownership, as negotiated
in its 2009 exit from bankruptcy, was “a fundamental step”
toward integrating the companies, Marchionne said in a Jan. 5
statement. He plans to merge Fiat and Chrysler by 2014 to
achieve a target of more than 100 billion euros ($132 billion)
in revenue.  Tough Segment  Dart will compete against some of the top-selling cars in
the U.S., including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Corolla,  Honda Motor
Co. (7267) ’s Civic,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Cruze and  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380) ’s Elantra.  Chrysler’s Illinois plant will add a third crew of workers
building the car in late July, said Welitschinsky, the union
local president. The company has said the factory will have more
than 4,500 employees when it completes the hiring process. In
2009, the plant had 200 workers.  “The auto industry’s a roller coaster ride, and we were
toward that bottom for awhile,” Welitschinsky said. “To see
people working now all the time now is a blessing. It’s a heck
of a lot better than being on the street.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  