-- Consumer Watchdog Still Lacks Sharp Eye on Fine Print
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-29T22:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/consumer-watchdog-still-lacks-sharp-eye-on-fine-print.html
It is painfully obvious that
the 2008 financial crisis would have been a lot less severe
had consumers been better educated about the debts they
were taking on.  The Dodd-Frank reform law created the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau to help all of us become
savvier purchasers of financial products such as mortgages,
credit cards and  student loans . In other words, the
bureau’s mission is to avoid a repeat crisis.  The agency, still in its infancy, has already taken
impressive  steps  toward improving the quality of
information consumers receive. In several areas, however,
it could do more to help Americans compare financial
products and understand contract terms.  Mortgages may be the most pressing need. Documents
that borrowers get when taking out a home loan are still
baffling. The agency is supposed to propose by July a
simpler  form  that enables consumers to understand and
compare loan terms when mortgage shopping.  The consumer bureau’s prototypes are a vast
improvement over the current situation. Lenders would have
to clearly indicate the loan amount, the  interest rate  and
whether it could increase, any prepayment penalties, and
whether there are balloon payments or other surprises of
the types that landed many borrowers in hot water. One nice
feature: The forms clearly explain the monthly amount
borrowers would owe and the services they could shop for,
including pest inspection, courier fees and title
insurance, to save money.  Fee Disclosure  The bureau could improve on this by requiring lenders
to include explanations of settlement fees -- what they’re
for and whether they’re required -- for inspections,
homeowners association dues, brokers’ payments and the
like. Part of the problem with disclosures now is that
borrowers can’t really assess what’s necessary and what’s
being pushed on them by unscrupulous actors.  The agency should also require lenders to speed up
delivery of the final loan terms and give paperwork to
borrowers at least three days before closing. Homebuyers
are often rushed through the paperwork on closing day and
may not be comfortable raising questions at the last
minute. Giving them a few days to actually read what
they’re agreeing to could go a long way toward removing
unexpected surprises.  When consumers sign up for credit cards, unlike with
mortgages, they don’t suffer from a lack of information.
Instead, they are awash in complicated legalese designed
largely to protect card issuers against lawsuits. A 2010
 analysis  by CreditCards.com, a research service owned by
publisher Bankrate Inc., found the average card agreement
is written on a 12th-grade reading level, while the average
adult reads at a ninth-grade level.  The bureau’s two-page  prototype  does away with a lot
of the complicated jargon that clutters up many agreements
and highlights several crucial pieces of information,
including the interest rate for purchases and cash
advances, penalties for late payments and whether rates can
change.  But the form puts simplicity above usefulness. It
includes many terms that consumers may not understand,
including “prime rate” and “compounding,” with no
explanations. The words are underlined to draw attention to
them, and the agency provides a definition for each on its
website. Many consumers may not take that extra step.  Plain English  A better approach would be to lengthen the form
slightly and include definitions -- in plain English --
with the agreement.  More troubling, the form is voluntary. Some, but not
all, issuers have said they’re open to using it. We hope
that, in a competitive marketplace, consumers will demand
that all card issuers do so. But that’s not a given, and
it’s entirely possible that vulnerable consumers -- those
least likely to understand the agreements -- will continue
to get dense paperwork that doesn’t adequately explain
their risks.  This month, the CFPB  backed away  from a plan to count
upfront fees -- the kind that some card issuers charge even
before an account is opened -- toward a 25 percent fee cap.
The bureau, which has many battles to wage, chose not to
fight after a federal court issued an injunction, saying
the U.S. went beyond its mandate.  So-called fee harvester cards are unsettling, but
disclosure is the key: As long as the CFPB requires that
consumers be clearly told about any upfront charges, they
don’t need to be covered by the cap.  The next credit bubble may not be mortgages or credit
cards, but student loans. Outstanding student loan debt
recently crossed the $1 trillion mark, eclipsing credit
cards as the second largest source of U.S. household debt
after mortgages. That’s one reason CFPB Director  Richard Cordray  has focused on helping students -- and parents --
better understand the huge financial burden that may come
with a college degree.  The bureau has started an online, interactive tool
that allows prospective students to compare costs -- and
estimated debt levels upon graduation -- at about 7,500
higher-education institutions. It is also working with the
Department of Education to develop a financial aid
“shopping sheet” that would help students compare aid
offers from various schools. And the agency provides advice
and counseling for students having trouble paying back
their loans.  Tuition Increases  The college  cost comparison  tool, still in the testing
phase, needs some refining to make it truly useful,
including factoring in tuition increases. It assumes
tuition and fees remain constant; given that tuitions rise,
on average, 6 percent annually, such an assumption could
seriously understate total debt.  Students would also be better served if they could
indicate their intended career and how long they expect to
take to complete a degree. The tool currently projects a
student’s debt burden by assuming the average national
salary for graduates with bachelor’s degrees. But a student
who plans to pursue an arts degree may wind up making far
less than one who studies engineering. With those fixes,
the tool could help college students avoid the unwelcome
graduation gift of unbearable debt.  So far, we see no evidence that the CFPB is usurping
the right of financial companies to offer an array of
products or of consumers to make their own choices. The
bureau seems to understand its proper place in the
regulatory alphabet soup -- to better educate consumers in
financial arcana and to police wrongdoing, while avoiding
the role of national nanny.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  healing power
of zinc ; William D. Cohan on the  federal debt ;  Simon
Johnson  on  German unions ; Richard G. Sloan on  fair-value
accounting ; John Eastman on  Arizona ’s  immigration law .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 