-- Craig Thomson Quits Australia’s Labor Party, Gillard Says
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-04-29T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/craig-thomson-quits-australia-s-labor-party-abc.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told a lawmaker to quit the Labor party and asked
parliament’s speaker to accept a longer suspension to restore
respect for politics while the two are under investigation.  “Australians are looking at this parliament and, at the
moment, they see a dark cloud over it,” Gillard said in
Canberra yesterday. A “line has been crossed,” she said. “I
want to ensure that Australians can look at this building, look
at this institution, and feel respect.”  Labor lawmaker Craig Thomson has denied claims he used a
labor union credit card to pay for prostitutes while working for
the Health Services Union before entering parliament in 2007.
Parliamentary Speaker Peter Slipper stepped aside a week ago to
deal with fraud and sexual harassment claims that he denies.  The decision brings Labor’s vote in the 150-seat lower
house of parliament below that of the opposition Liberal-
National coalition for the first time since the August 2010
federal election, ahead of a key vote on the government’s budget
due May 8.  Labor now holds power thanks to its 70 members of
parliament plus five independent and minor party lawmakers,
including Thomson. Two other members of parliament support the
71-member opposition coalition while Slipper and acting Speaker
Anna Burke are standing aside from votes.  Tainted Vote  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  called for new elections,
saying that Thomson’s was now a “tainted vote.”  “The only way right now to restore integrity to our
parliament and to restore the reputation of our politics is for
this sad and sorry parliament to be dissolved and for there to
be a new election,” he said at a press conference in Sydney
yesterday.  An election would probably now take place within the next
three months, said  Ian McAllister , a professor of political
science at  Australian National University  in Canberra.  “When you have a minority government it doesn’t last. It
never does,” he said. Most successful minority governments hold
fresh elections as soon as possible, McAllister said.  “The trouble is that this government has been so badly
down in the polls that they haven’t had a chance to do so,” he
said.  The opposition would win with 58.5 percent of the final
vote against 41.5 percent for Labor under  Australia ’s two-stage
voting system, according to a Roy Morgan  poll  conducted April
21-22.  Budget Surplus  Australia’s Treasurer  Wayne Swan  has promised to return
federal finances to surplus over the year through June 2013 as
part of the budget announcement. A failure of the budget bill to
pass the House of Representatives would trigger a fresh election
to ensure continued funding for the government.  Slipper said in an e-mailed statement that he wouldn’t take
the speaker’s chair when the House resumes sitting on budget day.
“This will avoid what could be a controversial debate,” he
said, “which would not assist the standing of the parliament.”  Thomson said he would continue to support the government,
and hoped to return to the  Labor party  once investigations into
the allegations against him were complete.  “I am a Labor person,” he told a news conference in
Tuggerah, north of Sydney. “On the cross benches I will
continue to support the Labor agenda.”  Public Investigation  Australia’s workplace tribunal on April 3 referred to the
public prosecutor an investigation into financial management at
the Health Services Union while Thomson worked there. Fair Work
Australia found 181 contraventions of industrial relations laws
and union rules by former and current officials of the union.  Slipper stepped aside April 21 after a former employee
issued a civil claim accusing him of making unwanted sexual
advances and saying he’d committed fraud using government taxi
vouchers. The fraud claim is being investigated by the
Australian Federal Police.  Australia’s Labor government has struggled to build a
reliable parliamentary majority since the August 2010 election
left both sides with 72 votes in Canberra’s 150-seat  house of
representatives . Labor formed a government with the support of
one Greens member of parliament and three independents, while
the coalition has the support of two other lawmakers.  “Any movement of an MP at this stage is significant
because of the closeness of the numbers,”  Nick Economou , a
political analyst at  Monash University  in  Melbourne , said by
phone about Thomson. “It just adds another level of intrigue to
the operation of the House as we go toward the budget.”  Gambling Reform  One of the independents,  Andrew Wilkie , has since distanced
himself from the government over disagreements on gambling
reform. Burke, now acting speaker of the House of
Representatives, votes only in case of a tie.  That gives the government 74 guaranteed votes in the
parliament, plus one more if it receives Wilkie’s support and
another if Burke is called to break a tied vote. The total
normal voting bloc in the parliament is now 148 if both Slipper
and Burke stand aside.  The government is in a “precarious” situation,
independent MP  Tony Windsor  told Australian Broadcasting Corp.
television yesterday.  “I’ve been prepared for an early election since day one,”
said Windsor, who supports the Labor government.  Slipper stood for the opposition Liberal party in seven
elections before taking on the formally independent role of
speaker last November. The move came over the objections of his
own party, since it increased the government’s narrow
parliamentary majority by depriving the Liberals of a vote, and
he is now an independent lawmaker.  Wilkie told Australian Broadcasting Corp. television
yesterday that he’d support a confidence motion against the
speaker if Slipper was returned to the role before he has dealt
with the fraud and sexual harassment claims.  “If the government mishandles this badly I would consider
a motion of no confidence,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  