-- Crypt Keeper’s $4,000 Cognac Offers Entry to Paradise
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-04-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/crypt-keeper-s-4-000-cognac-offers-entry-to-paradise.html
In the dusty crypt of a 12th-
century abbey, where monks once prayed, I’m rolling a few drops
of 1860 Cognac on my tongue.  Sumptuous layered flavors reveal exotic spices, the taste
of warm honey, echoes of creme brulee.  This 1860 is pretty spectacular in its own right. But it’s
just one of several elements in a luxury Cognac blend, the
$4,000,  Tesseron  Extreme.  I’m at the small Tesseron distillery in Chateauneuf-sur-
Charente to discover how it creates elixirs that make Cognac
aficionados dig so deep into their pockets.  Founded in 1905 by Cognac collector Abel Tesseron in the
Cognac region north of Bordeaux, the company produced eaux-de-
vie from its two estates and quietly peddled its rare old stocks
to big houses like  Hennessy (MC)  for nearly a century.  In 2001, it started a line of XO Cognacs (extra old) under
its own name. Extreme, its longest-aged and priciest, was
introduced more than two years ago.  Maitre de Chai Jacky Martial, 57 and looking dapper in a
slightly iridescent gray suit and close-cropped gray beard,
grabs a large ring of keys from a cupboard hidden under the
stairs for our tour.  Eaux-de-Vie  The first stop is the beamed ceiling distillery, where
brick-based Charentais potstills crowned with onion-shaped
copper heads are double distilling white wine into eaux-de-vie.
The grapes include  ugni blanc  (for roundness), colombard (for
depth) and difficult-to-grow folle blanche (for finesse) from
the region’s top two districts, Petite Champagne and Grande
Champagne. Almost all Tesseron’s Cognacs are from Grande
Champagne.  Next we head down the street to the cellars, where after
distillation, the eaux-de-vie spend decades mellowing in
Limousin oak barrels.  “Great Cognac,” Martial explains, “requires aging and
the blender’s nose.” He is constantly tasting, combining one
barrel with another, slowly building Cognac blends.  There I sip a five-year-old with pear flavors and a caramel
aroma that holds a hint of its future.  A 10-year example smells and tastes of candied oranges and
flowers. In a 20-year-blend, I detect dried fruit, honeysuckle,
and spice; in one that’s 50 years old, dark chocolate, espresso,
tobacco.  Slow oxidation and natural evaporation through barrel pores
in a damp cellar like Tesseron’s reduces alcohol and refines
Cognac’s fire into softer, creamier, muted warmth. The
equivalent of thousands of bottles - the poetically named
Angel’s Share -- disappears into the atmosphere.  ‘Paradis’  All these barrels find their way into Tesseron’s standard
portfolio, including its delicious Royal Blend being introduced
at  Vinexpo  Asia-Pacific in  Hong Kong  next month. They’ll have to
age another generation or two before they make it into Extreme.  Martial finally unlocks a door to the Tesseron family’s
ancient stocks, some of them more than 175 years old.  Rows of glass demijohns, each holding about 25 liters, are
lined up on metal shelves. Some are wrapped in straw baskets.  This is one of three “paradis” locations, so that if there
is a fire at one -- heaven forbid -- all is not lost.  “This collection is priceless,” says Martial, as he hands
me a glass of 1900, then an 1865. (They’re “references” rather
than vintages, as the eaux-de-vie in an old Cognac don’t always
come from a single harvest.) The 1865 is powerful, zesty, and
complex, with satiny layers of heady dried fruit. I decide it
would be churlish to spit in paradise.  Creaking Gate  Behind a cobwebbed iron gate that creaks when Martial
pushes it open is the oldest “paradis,” with hundreds of crusted
jugs, including the 1860, carrying faded tags.  I try to estimate the value of the 2000 demijohns stored
here. Last September a  single bottle  of vintage 1858 Cognac
Croizet Cuvee Leonie sold at a Shanghai auction for $157,000. It
took Martial a year to finalize Extreme’s blend of elements,
each more than 100 years old.  Glass shelves in his office hold a bottled library of the
company’s eaux-de-vie whose aromas and flavors he has committed
to memory. Colors range from gold (youngest) to amber (middle
aged) to mahogany brown (oldest). He mixed up five trial blends
for Extreme in test tubes, and then let them marry for several
months.  “Older Cognacs don’t always go together,” he explains.
“They’re like people who get more opinionated as they age. When
you put them all in the same room, their characters may clash.”  He considered 35 lots, and finally ended up with 10
including Cognacs from 1853 and 1906, which played well with
others like the 1900, 1865, and the 1860. The resulting blend is
considerably more than the sum of the parts.  Limited Production  Tesseron only makes 300 1.75-liter bottles of Extreme a
year, with the lion’s share of about 70 percent sold in  Taiwan ,
Hong Kong,  China , and  Singapore .  That’s dwarfed by overall Cognac consumption in 2011, when
more than five bottles were sold around the world every second,
according to the  Bureau National Interprofessionnel du Cognac .  After enduring a slump in 2008 and 2009, high-end Cognac is
entering a golden age, mostly thanks to soaring Asian demand, up
20 percent last year in China alone, according to the BNIC.  The premium, longer aged sector of XO Cognac, (minimum 6
years by law, but typically much older) registered the fastest
growth at 15.3 percent.  Cognac giant  Remy Martin  created the luxury category in
1874 with its Louis XIII (1.75 liter, $5,000).  The oldest element in the blend is more than 100 years
old, says Pierrette Trichet, the only female cellar master ever
at any major Cognac house.  Remy’s blend is fabulous, but I still give the edge to the
sublime Tesseron Extreme. Too bad it’s way above my pay grade.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  book  and  wine  reviews.  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 