-- Moussa Leads in Poll as Egypt Election Campaigning Begins
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-04-30T11:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/egypt-s-military-plans-cabinet-reshuffle-state-news-agency-says.html
Campaigning for  Egypt ’s first
presidential election since  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster began as the
ruling generals were poised to announce governmental changes and
the constitution-writing process faced further obstacles.  A weekly poll showed former Arab League Secretary General
 Amre Moussa  leading the field of 13 candidates for the May 23
race. Moussa, who also served as foreign minister, secured the
backing of 41.1 percent of those surveyed, according to the
study conducted by Al Ahram Center for Political and Strategic
Studies and published today in the state-run al-Ahram newspaper.
Islamist candidate Abdel Moneim Aboul-Fotouh, backed by the
largest Salafi bloc in parliament, was second with 27.3 percent.  The official start of campaigning comes at a critical
juncture for Egypt, with the ruling military council under
growing pressure from Islamists and secularists concerned it
will renege on pledges to hand over power to a civilian
administration while efforts to draft a new constitution led to
fresh objections within parliament.  The speaker of parliament’s lower house yesterday said he
had received a promise that the military would make changes
within the government. That step came after the assembly voted
to suspend its work for the remainder of the week to protest the
ruling generals’ refusal to fire a government lawmakers see as
obstructing their work and “engineering” crises.  The proposed reshuffle, which would be limited, “adds to
the instability which reflects negatively on the macro scene,”
 Mona Mansour , an analyst with investment bank CI Capital, said
in an e-mailed note. “This could delay receiving the IMF
loan,” she said.  IMF Loan  The government is negotiating with the  International
Monetary Fund  over a $3.2 billion loan.  The Cabinet changes may include some Islamist ministers and
affect ministries including trade, foreign affairs and oil, Al
Ahram Gate said. The inclusion of Islamists could ease tension
between them and the military. It may also bolster unease among
secularists concerned that Islamists -- including the
Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party that controls nearly 50
percent of the seats in the lower house -- are increasing their
power.  A parliamentary committee yesterday rejected the framework
for the selection of a panel to draft the constitution, drawing
a rebuke from the military council’s civilian advisory body, the
state-run the Middle East  News Agency  reported.  The outline for the panel’s makeup was crafted by the
military council and political groups last week, after the
earlier committee was effectively disbanded following a court
ruling. The objections may mean that the constitution won’t be
completed in time for the planned end-of-June handover of power
to a civilian government and that a president would come into
office without clear guidelines on his authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  