-- Egypt Confident of Saudi Arabian Aid Amid Protest Tension
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-04-29T16:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/egypt-confident-of-saudi-arabian-aid-amid-protest-tension.html
Egyptian officials said Saudi
Arabian financial aid to the country is not in jeopardy despite
a mass protest in front of the kingdom’s embassy in Cairo
strained ties between the two countries.  The protests that began April 24 over  Saudi Arabia ’s
detention of an Egyptian human rights activist prompted  Riyadh 
to temporarily close its embassy and two consulates and withdraw
its ambassador. Egyptian officials have sought to mend fences
with the country that is one of Cairo’s biggest foreign-aid
donors. Yields on Egypt’s nine-month treasury bills rose to
their highest level in almost two months today.  “It will arrive for sure,” Egypt Central Bank Governor
Farouk el-Okdah said of the aid without elaborating. “This has
been agreed on between the two countries.”  Egypt needs financial aid after last year’s uprising that
ousted former President  Hosni Mubarak  battered the economy,
cutting economic growth and reducing foreign investment and
tourism, the nation’s top two sources of foreign exchange. A
$3.2 billion International Monetary Fund loan has yet to be
delivered, with the organization insisting that Egyptian
officials secure broad political support for the move before the
aid is approved.  Officials have been counting on the Saudi Arabian funding,
as well as money from other donors, to help bridge the  budget
deficit  since the IMF loan will be insufficient to cover the
fiscal gap.  Ambassador Return  Planning and International Cooperation Minister Fayza Aboulnaga said in an interview on April 19 that the package will
include a $1 billion deposit and $750 million to buy treasury
bonds.  Aboulnaga told reporters today that the Saudi Arabian
ambassador will return to Cairo “soon” and may be back
“within hours.”  The protests began after Ahmed el-Gizawy, a human rights
activist and lawyer was detained earlier this month in Saudi
Arabia following accusations he tried to smuggle anti-anxiety
tablets into the kingdom.  The Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, which
holds nearly half the seats in parliament’s lower house, said
the demonstrators were “merely expressing the Egyptian people’s
aspiration to preserve the dignity of their fellow citizens who
visit, live or work in Arab countries,” according to a
statement on the party website.  Insulting Dignity  “The people are voicing their conviction that insulting
the dignity of Egyptians abroad is no longer tolerated after the
peaceful revolution which restored their will, their voice and
their dignity,” the FJP said in the statement.  Egyptian officials and some groups have sought to smooth
over the potential rift, with Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein
Tantawi calling  King Abdullah  yesterday to reaffirm the strength
of ties between the two nations, the state-run al-Ahram reported
today.  The Salafi al-Nour Party called for a rally of “love and
appreciation” for Saudi Arabia in front of the country’s
embassy on May 1, the state-run Middle East News Agency reported
today. Salafis are followers of a strict interpretation of Islam
similar to that adhered to in Saudi Arabia.  Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel Amr said the methods used by
some of the protesters were “individual actions that do not
represent” the views of Egyptians as a whole, the state-run
Middle East News Agency said late yesterday.  In a meeting in parliament, Amr said that the issue needed
to be placed in context and that a distinction must be made
between Egyptian-Saudi relations and the problems some Egyptians
might face in the kingdom, MENA reported today. He also
criticized the graffiti scrawled on the outside walls of the
compound.  The FJP said that Egyptian-Saudi relations are “far
greater than any problems” and that “dialogue and transparency
in these relations can solve any problems.”  The party called on  Egypt ’s military rulers to “take
concrete steps to solve the el-Gizawy issue in a manner which
ensures Egyptians’ dignity, and at the same time preserves” the
strong ties between both nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net .
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net . 