-- Employment Probably Picked Up in April: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-29T04:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/employment-probably-picked-up-in-april-u-s-economy-preview.html
Hiring probably picked up in April
after the weakest gain in five months, and the U.S. jobless rate
stayed at 8.2 percent, showing improvement in the labor market,
economists said before reports this week.  Payrolls climbed by 165,000 workers after a 120,000 gain in
March, according to the median forecast of 64 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before Labor Department data due May
4. Manufacturing and services grew at a slower pace, other
reports may show.  Bigger gains in hiring and wages gains are needed to
sustain household purchases, which increased in the first
quarter at the fastest pace in more than a year. Joblessness
exceeding 8 percent for more than three years helps explain why
Federal Reserve policy makers are sticking to a plan that holds
borrowing costs low through late 2014 to spur growth.  “The labor market is not going to roar, but it’ll keep
improving,” said  Carl Riccadonna , a senior U.S. economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York . “The economy is
growing at a rate where  job creation  is inevitable. To increase
output, businesses have to add workers.”  Growth led by persistent gains in household purchases would
help lay the groundwork for hiring. The economy expanded at a
2.2 percent annual rate in the first quarter after a 3 percent
pace in the prior three months, the Commerce Department reported
on April 27.  Consumer spending  climbed 2.9 percent, the fastest
pace since the end of 2010.  A Commerce Department report due tomorrow will provide
details of how consumption fared at the end of last quarter.
Spending may have grown 0.4 percent in March, half as much as
February’s 0.8 percent gain that was the biggest in seven
months, according to the Bloomberg survey median. Incomes rose
0.3 percent, following a 0.2 percent increase, economists said.  Retail Sales  Better-than-forecast retail sales at chains like Gap Inc.
and  Target Corp. (TGT)  in March, together with a surge in demand for
cars, indicate Americans are taking higher gasoline costs in
stride. Automobiles  sold  last quarter at the fastest pace in
four years, according to industry data. At the same time, the
pace cooled in March from a month earlier.  Growing demand is generating employment. Volkswagen AG’s
U.S. financing arm said it will expand its  Illinois  office,
adding about 150 new jobs through 2018, as the German automaker
grows its American business. VW Credit Inc. on April 20 broke
ground on a 30,000-square-foot expansion to about double the
size of its facility in Libertyville, Illinois.  Investors are turning more optimistic as earnings improve
along with the economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has
climbed  almost 12 percent in 2011.  Faster job growth may help President  Barack Obama  fend off
criticism from Republican challenger  Mitt Romney , who has said
White House policies have done little to help American workers.
Employment and the economy are a central theme in the campaign.  Private Employment  Private payrolls, which exclude government jobs, climbed
170,000 after rising 121,000 in March, economists forecast the
Labor Department report will show.  The projected gain in total payrolls would bring the
average for this year to 200,000, compared with 206,750 in the
first four months of 2011.  The jobless rate, derived from a separate survey of
households, held at a  three-year low  of 8.2 percent in April,
economists in the Bloomberg survey predicted. Unemployment has
exceeded 8 percent since February 2009, the longest such stretch
since monthly records began in 1948.  “Labor market conditions have improved in recent months;
the  unemployment rate  has declined but remains elevated,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in an April 25 statement. The
group “expects economic growth to remain moderate over coming
quarters and then to pick up gradually,” and “anticipates that
the unemployment rate will decline gradually.”  Fed Projections  Fed officials also reduced forecasts for the jobless rate,
to an average 7.8 percent to 8 percent in the fourth quarter
compared with a January projection of 8.2 percent to 8.5
percent, according to central tendency estimates released April
25. The new forecasts are still above policy makers’ estimates
for full employment, which range from 5.2 percent to 6 percent.  Through March, the economy had recovered about 3.6 million
of the 8.8 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009.  CSX Hiring  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the biggest U.S. eastern railroad, said it is
hiring people mainly to keep headcount stable.  “Last year, you may recall we hired 4,000 people --roughly
3,000 was attrition, the other 1,000 was evenly split between
train and engine crews to move the products” and others to
install safety systems, Michael Ward, chief executive officer at
CSX, said in an April 18 interview. “This year the 3,000 will
be largely attrition.”  Companies paring staff include H&R Block Inc., the biggest
U.S. tax preparer, which plans to cut 350 jobs and close about
200 company-owned offices. AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  this
month said it will eliminate 1,200 airport agent, baggage and
cargo jobs as part of a bankruptcy restructuring plan to trim
annual labor spending by $1.25 billion.  One driver of growth that is easing is manufacturing, which
accounts for about 12 percent of the economy. The Institute for
Supply Management Inc.’s factory index fell to 53 this month
from 53.4 in March, according to the Bloomberg survey median
ahead of the May 1 report. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM group’s gauge of  service
industries , to be released on May 3, was little changed in April
at 55.5 after 56, economists projected.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  