-- Hodgson in Talks for England Job; Redknapp Has No Grudges
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-04-30T11:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/england-f-a-speaks-with-west-brom-s-hodgson-about-coaching-job.html
Roy Hodgson  will hold talks with
the Football Association about becoming the next England soccer
coach after his Premier League club gave its consent.  West Bromwich Albion yesterday granted permission for the
ruling body to talk to Hodgson about the post left vacant when
Fabio Capello quit in February because of a disagreement with
the F.A. over its decision to remove Chelsea defender  John Terry 
as captain.  “Roy is the only manager we have approached and we remain
on course to make an appointment within the timescale we set
out,” F.A. Chairman David Bernstein said in a  statement  on the
governing body’s website. “Further conversations will now take
place with Roy and my Club  England  colleagues before any further
announcements can be made.”  Hodgson, 64, becomes the frontrunner for the England job,
pushing aside Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp , who was the
favorite with U.K. bookmakers.  Redknapp said today he has no hard feelings over the
approach to Hodgson.  “I don’t hold grudges. I don’t feel like that, there’s no
problem” he told  Sky Sports . “I’m very fortunate, there are
lots of people who would give anything to have the job I’ve got
here. If Roy takes the job, I wish him all the best. He’s a
great guy.”  Hodgson coached the national teams of  Switzerland , Finland
and the  United Arab Emirates  as well as  Inter Milan  in  Italy ,
Malmo in Sweden, and English clubs Blackburn, Fulham and
Liverpool.  He took over West Brom in February 2011 after being fired
by Liverpool. He was named Manager of the Year the previous
season for taking Fulham to the Europa League final.  ‘Fantastic Job’  Hodgson left Fulham for Liverpool in July 2010. He arrived
at the Reds during an ownership struggle and left the following
January with the club in 12th place, having won seven of 20
Premier League matches.  The Baggies were in danger of relegation from the top
flight, sitting in 17th place when Hodgson took over. He guided
them to 11th last season, their highest finish in the Premier
League. West Brom is currently 10th in the standings with two
games remaining.  “Roy has done a fantastic job over the past 15 months and
the fact the F.A. wants to discuss the England role with him is
testament to that,” West Brom Chairman Jeremy Peace said on the
club’s website. “We have emphasized to Roy how much we would
like him to remain.”  Hodgson played non-league soccer with Tonbridge, Gravesend
& Northfleet, and Maidstone United after failing to break into
the team at Crystal Palace, where he trained as a boy.  He said in an interview with the British Broadcasting Corp.
before the F.A.’s approach that he would relish the opportunity
to coach the England national team.  ‘Delighted’  “If ever the people in charge decided that I was the man
they wanted then I would be delighted to do it,” Hodgson told
the  BBC . “At the same time, I am also perfectly happy for them
to choose someone else if that’s what they want to do.”  Stuart Pearce , England’s under-21 manager, has overseen
training and an exhibition match since Capello’s departure.
England is preparing for the European Championship, which starts
June 8 in Poland and Ukraine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  