-- Terra Said to Sell Online Films in Telefonica Home Market
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-30T10:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/terra-said-to-sell-online-films-in-telefonica-home-market.html
Terra, whose websites attract
almost 100 million visitors a month in the  Americas , plans to
offer online films and music in  Europe  this year, starting with
Spain and Portugal, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  The media company, a unit of  Telefonica SA (TEF) , will introduce
music service Sonora in Spain by the end of next month, followed
by film site SundayTV in the fourth quarter, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the plan isn’t public.
Terra intends to add those services in Portugal this year and
expand to other European countries in 2013, the person said.  Terra is in talks with music companies and film studios
including Vivendi’s Universal Music Group,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox,
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. to boost the
content offered through Sonora and SundayTV, the person said.
With about 1,100 employees, Terra is also looking for an Iberian
head from such companies as  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the person said.  “At the moment, Netflix isn’t in Spain, Lovefilm is not in
Spain either -- it’s a relatively underpenetrated market,” said
James Cordwell, a London-based analyst for Atlantic Equities
Service, who doesn’t own shares in Netflix or Telefonica. “It
would be very difficult for it to go into a market where other
players were established.”  Country by Country  The more services in a market, the harder it is to win
subscribers and make up for the fixed cost of the content
licenses, Cordwell said. Since rights to content have to be
negotiated on a country-by-country basis, it makes more sense
for newer services to target countries that more established
brands, such as Netflix Inc. and  Amazon.com (AMZN)  Inc.’s Lovefilm,
have eschewed, he said.  A spokesman for Telefonica declined to comment.  As Telefonica struggles to stem a decline in profit from
phone services amid tough competition, lower consumption and
increasing unemployment at its home market, the Madrid-based
operator is seeking growth from partnerships and agreements in
its digital division. Spain’s biggest phone company last
September put Matthew Key in charge of a newly created digital
business grouping its companies from three continents such as
social-networking site Tuenti and Web-phone unit Jajah.  10 Million Target  Telefonica fell 10 cents, or 0.9 percent, to 11.22 euros at
12:01 p.m. on the Madrid exchange. The stock has lost about 15
percent of its value this year, giving the company a market
value of 51.8 billion euros ($68.7 billion).  Terra, based in Sao Paulo, already offers content such as
online news in  Spain . Its Spanish and Portuguese sites attract 7
million unique visitors a month. The company targets boosting
the number to 10 million by the end of this year and generate
revenue of $10 million from those customers.  Terra has annual revenue of about $500 million, mainly from
advertising and the more than 1 million paying subscribers of
Sonora, SundayTV and other services including e-mail and
computer security in  Latin America . The company in February
broadcast live Brazil’s Carnival of Bahia in Spain.  Adam White, a spokesman for Universal Music in  London ,
confirmed that the company is in discussions with Terra to
license the new service in Spain and Portugal. The two companies
already have a partnership in Latin America.  Matthew Grossman, a Disney spokesman, declined to comment.
Warner Bros.’s Tammy Golihew and Deb Lincoln didn’t respond to
e-mails seeking comment and an e-mail requesting comment from
Fox wasn’t answered.  Spotify, Netflix  Terra’s expansion in Europe will put the company in
competition with Spotify Ltd., the London-based online music
provider,  Netflix, (NFLX)  the world’s largest video-subscription
service and Amazon.com’s Lovefilm. In Spain, it will face
competition from Google, Microsoft and  Promotora de
Informaciones SA , Spain’s largest media company.  Terra plans to broadcast the London summer Olympics for its
Latin American audience and will follow sports events with live
minute by minute narration, pictures and other content for the
European audience, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  