-- EU Bank Targets Rebuffed by Swedes Seeking Tougher Rules
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-30T11:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/eu-bank-targets-rebuffed-by-swedes-seeking-tougher-rules.html
The European Union will fail to
reach a deal this week on bank capital rules unless member
countries get more freedom to impose tougher requirements,
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said.  “I am not willing to compromise on the core principles
that we have, so we will take a tough position in these
negotiations,” Borg said in an interview with Bloomberg News.
“I will not be ready to give up any of the major interests of
our country,” he said.  EU nations have clashed over proposals by  Michel Barnier ,
the region’s financial services chief, to fix banks’ core
capital requirements at 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets,
with limited exceptions for national regulators to set higher
thresholds. The figure was proposed by Barnier in 2011 as part
of a draft law to apply rules agreed on by the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision .  Sweden  wants to set a 10 percent buffer
from 2013, and raise it to 12 percent two years later.  Sweden, the U.K. and  Spain  are among a group of countries
warning the plans would unacceptably restrain national powers.
Other governments, including France, Italy and  Austria , have
backed Barnier’s approach.  Governments will seek to narrow their differences on the
draft law at a meeting on May 2, with finance ministers
scheduled to meet again on May 15.  ‘Core Principles’  “It is very important to get a deal, but in this issue we
have some core principles that we will defend quite heavily,”
Borg said. If ministers fail to reach an accord this week, they
would return to the issue at the next meeting, he said.  “There’s still a lot of work to be done” to get an
agreement, Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for Barnier, told
reporters in Brussels today. “Timing is quite short.”  The legislation must be approved both by governments and by
lawmakers in the European Parliament before it can come into
effect.  Compromise proposals from  Denmark  that would allow nations
to force their banks to hold additional capital of as much as 5
percent may not go far enough, Borg said. While that “would be
a good step,” Sweden would still expect that national
regulators can go beyond this for so-called globally systemic
banks, or G-SIFIs, he said.  “At the end of the day, there might be a need for a kind
of a phasing in of tougher requirements, but at least 5 percent
additional capital in the long-term is necessary,” Borg said.  Home Countries  Sweden and the U.K. have also objected to existing
proposals, arguing they don’t automatically cover banks’
activities outside their home countries.  Borg’s position puts him at loggerheads with  France , which
has already said the 5 percent rule goes too far. The country,
which is in the middle of presidential elections that may see
 Nicolas Sarkozy  ousted by Socialist Francois Hollande, has
warned too much freedom for national regulators to raise capital
requirements could imperil growth as lenders respond by scaling
back their activities.  The final compromise on the draft law is likely to involve
a “constrained discretion” for national authorities to go
beyond the 7 percent threshold,  Sharon Bowles , the chairwoman of
the European Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee, said today on Bloomberg Television.  National Rules  Barnier’s proposals have won support from banks concerned
they may face a patchwork of rules across national markets.  So-called “maximum harmonization” of capital rules in
 Europe  “doesn’t seem likely to happen, which is a concern to
us,” Leena Morttinen, head of group European affairs at  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA) , said at a conference organized by the European
Commission in Brussels last week.  Sweden, the U.K. and France have also clashed over
proposals from the Commission to apply lighter capital
requirements to banks with insurance arms, versus what was
approved by the Basel committee.  Such so-called bancassurers include Societe Generale SA,
Credit Agricole SA, and Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  While the Basel committee has sought to largely ban lenders
from counting their insurance arms’ reserves towards meeting
their capital requirements, the Commission proposals would allow
banks to carry out such double-counting.  The Commission plans are backed by France, though Sweden
and the U.K. oppose them. The  European Central Bank  has also
said it’s opposed in general to banks relying on their insurance
business to meet requirements. Denmark has backed the
Commission’s approach, saying a majority of EU nations are
behind the plan.  ‘Fully Compliant’  Both the draft law proposed by the Commission last year and
the Danish compromise plans are “fully compliant” with Basel
III, Hughes said.  Sweden will also insist in this week’s talks that the EU
set a “stringent definition” on which securities lenders can
count toward their core reserves, Borg said.  It’s “very important that we don’t undermine the
definition of capital, obviously, because that would then only
circumvent the credibility of an agreement,” he said.  Under the current Danish plans, national regulators would
retain the power to decide which securities meet the criteria to
count toward core reserves. The European Banking Authority,
based in  London , could alert the European Commission, the 27-
nation EU’s executive arm, if it felt a regulator had erred.  Core Capital  Germany rejected a greater role for the EU in defining core
capital instruments during preparatory talks for this week’s
meeting. Andrea Enria, the EBA’s chairman, has called for powers
to create a legally-binding list of securities that count as
core capital.  “Strong mechanisms should be put in place to make sure
that there is no room for watering down the requirements,”
Enria said in a speech in Dublin last week.  At the same time, the U.K. has taken issue with the wording
of the draft law that may allow so-called silent participations
by German authorities to count toward lenders’ core reserves.  Swedish policy makers want banks to comply with more
rigorous  capital requirements  in part as lending growth exceeds
the 2 percent to 3 percent level the central bank has identified
as safe. Household borrowing rose an annual 5 percent in March,
the statistics office said today. That beat the 4.9 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts. Swedish
 household debt  rose to 170 percent of disposable income last
year from about 100 percent in 2000, the central bank estimates.  “For a decade or something like that debt to disposable
income ratio has been going up, up, up, up and that means that
eventually we’re going to get to a point where somebody is going
to have to say enough is enough,” central bank Governor Stefan Ingves said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net .
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 