-- Europe’s Anti-Austerity Calls Mount as Elections Near
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-04-30T13:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/europe-seeks-to-restore-calm-after-spain-downgrade-growth-spat.html
A recession in Spain and forecasts
of rising unemployment in the 17-nation euro area are amplifying
criticism of the German-led austerity agenda in election
campaigns this week in France and  Greece .  With Spain’s largest unions leading marches involving
thousands of protesters in 55 cities yesterday, Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy ’s government battled to prevent Spain from
becoming the next country to seek a bailout. In France, where
the presidential-election runoff is set for May 6, Socialist
frontrunner  Francois Hollande  pushed back against German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s focus on deficit reduction.  “Watching Spain now is exactly like watching Ireland
around October 2010 before Ireland was forced into its
bailout,” Megan Greene, a senior economist at Roubini Global
Economics LLC, told Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” on
April 27. “The government can’t win no matter what it does.”  Spain’s economy shrank in the first quarter as the nation
officially entered its second recession since 2009. Gross
domestic product contracted 0.3 percent. Joblessness in the euro
area probably to rose to 10.9 percent last month, the highest
since 1997, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  As Spanish joblessness reached almost one in four of the
working-age population, Hollande demanded that euro-area leaders
move to promoting growth from cutting budgets, as agreed by 25
European governments in the so-called fiscal pact. Merkel drew
the line at re-opening talks on the fiscal treaty, though she
said growth could be boosted with labor-market reform and
European Union funding.  Merkel’s Line  “There will be no new negotiations on the fiscal pact,”
Merkel told the  Leipziger Volkszeitung  in an interview published
on April 28. Even so, EU leaders may consider measures such as
strengthening the  European Investment Bank  as part of a package
of growth initiatives to be discussed at their summit meeting in
June, she said.  Spain’s 10-year yield slid 5.5 basis points to 5.826 at
3:16 p.m. in Madrid, down from as high as 6 percent April 27.
The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.2 percent to 258.54, while the
euro declined 0.3 percent to $1.322 in  Frankfurt .  The debate on growth was spurred on by European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  last week after he called for a
“growth compact” consisting of structural changes and
improvements in competitiveness to enhance the fiscal pact.  ‘Stable Footing’  “If the conversation has shifted toward this, then it
shows that they’re moving toward a way to put their economy and
their currency on a more stable footing,”  William Adams , a
senior international economist at PNC Bank NA in Pittsburgh,
said in an interview. “It’s a process you’re going to measure
in years rather than months.”  The EU is working on an investment package of 200 billion
euros ($265 billion) for infrastructure, renewable energy and
technology in the euro-area’s worst-hit countries, El Pais
newspaper reported, citing unidentified officials familiar with
the plan. The funds will come from 12 billion euros from the
European Financial Stabilization Mechanism to boost the capital
of the EIB, El Pais said.  A war of words erupted last week between Hollande, who
decried  Germany ’s fiscal-focused leadership in the two-year-old
financial crisis, and Merkel, who said that the turmoil can’t be
resolved without cutting debt. Polls show that Hollande is
likely to succeed  Nicolas Sarkozy  as  France ’s next president
after winning the first round of voting April 22.  ‘New Focus on Growth’  “You, the French people, are going to vote to give Europe
a new focus on growth, on progress, on the future,” Hollande
told 17,000 supporters yesterday in Paris. “The head of the ECB
can also see that some government heads also understand that
austerity alone won’t help cut debt. They are starting to hear
what we are saying,” he said.  Greece will also hold elections on May 6, with polls
indicating no party will win enough votes for a parliamentary
majority. The lack of a clear mandate could complicate Greek
bailout efforts, since the new government must spell out to
global creditors in June how it will make fresh budget cuts.  Spain  figured at the center of last week’s debate, with
borrowing costs climbing after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
kingdom’s sovereign credit rating for the second time this year,
to BBB+ from A, on concern about further fiscal tightening and
the country’s banks.  Roubini’s Greene said that concerns on Spanish debt were
self-sustaining as markets gyrated from worries about the
effects of more austerity to a lack of budget discipline. She
predicted Spain would seek bailout aid early next year.  ‘Markets Freak Out’  “Yields rise and the Spanish government announces further
austerity measures -- the markets freak out because they worry
about the impact of those austerity measures on growth,” Greene
told Bloomberg. “If the Spanish government doesn’t announce
austerity measures, the markets don’t think that the Spanish
government is serious about reining in its fiscal dynamics.”  Rajoy in March scrapped Spain’s aim to cut its  budget
deficit  to 4.4 percent of output this year after a slumping
economy threw the nation’s ambition to consolidate its finances
off course. As Spain pushes through the deepest budget cuts in
at least three decades, the country’s banks probably need 50
billion euros in capital, according to Morgan Stanley estimates.  Protesters in  Madrid  yesterday filled the city’s Puerta del
Sol square despite the rain, with placards reading “No bread,
no peace.” The protests follow a report last week showing that
Spain’s unemployment rate rose to 24.4 percent in the first
quarter, the highest level in 18 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  