-- Euro Falls 3rd Day Versus Yen as Spain Back in Recession
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-04-30T21:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/euro-remains-lower-before-spain-s-gdp-report-deficit-measures.html
The euro weakened for a third day
against the yen after a report showed  Spain ’s economy entered
its second recession since 2009, adding to concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis is worsening.  The 17-nation currency extended its first monthly decline
this year versus the dollar as Spain’s government struggled to
convince investors it can narrow its  budget deficit  in an
economy that’s grappling with almost 25 percent  unemployment .
 Australia ’s dollar slid against most major peers on bets the
central bank will cut interest rates. Canada’s dollar tumbled
after the nation’s economy unexpectedly shrank.  “Spain seems to be the main concern” for the euro, said
 Mary Nicola , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New
York. “We have a whole set of euro event risks coming up.
Concerns are lingering.”  The euro fell 0.7 percent to 105.67 yen at 5 p.m.  New York 
time, bringing its April loss to 4.4 percent. The shared
currency declined 0.1 percent to $1.3239, extending this month’s
drop to 0.8 percent. The dollar weakened 0.6 percent to 79.82
yen, falling below 80 yen for the first time since Feb. 24.  The implied volatility of three-month options for the
currencies of the Group of Seven nations touched 8.84 percent,
the lowest intraday level since November 2007, according to a
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  index . It closed at 8.99 percent. The 10-
year average is 10.6 percent. Lower volatility makes investments
in currencies of nations with higher benchmark rates more
attractive because the risk in such trades is that market moves
will erase profits.  Aussie Rate Bets  Australia’s dollar weakened for the first time in four days
against the greenback as economists said the central bank will
reduce  interest rates  at a meeting tomorrow. The overnight  cash
rate  target will be lowered by 0.25 percentage point from 4.25
percent, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The Aussie depreciated 0.4 percent to $1.0429 after rising
0.9 percent last week.  Canadian economic output fell 0.2 percent in February to an
annualized C$1.28 trillion ($1.30 trillion) after a January gain
of 0.1 percent,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. A
Bloomberg News survey had projected a 0.2 percent increase.  Canada’s currency weakened 0.7 percent to 98.72 cents per
 U.S. dollar , after depreciating as much as 0.9 percent in the
biggest intraday drop since March 20.  The yen gained the most over the past month among 10
developed-nation currencies, rising 4 percent, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Sweden’s krona was the
biggest loser, falling 2 percent. The dollar slipped 0.2
percent, and the euro lost 1.1 percent.  Carry Trade  The carry trade of selling the yen to buy the higher-
yielding currencies of  Mexico , Australia,  South Africa  and
 Norway  has lost 38 percent this month. When funded in dollars,
the trade is down 10 percent.  Spain’s  gross domestic product  fell 0.3 percent in the
first quarter, the same as in the previous three months, the
Madrid-based National Statistics Institute said. From a year
ago, GDP slid 0.4 percent, the institute said.  “We know how severe the unemployment situation in Spain
is, and it will become increasingly difficult for Spain to
fulfill its deficit target and that will be a risk factor for
the  euro zone  and the euro,” said Niels Christensen, chief
currency strategist at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Copenhagen. “It’s not
something that’s going to disappear in the short term.”  Spain will auction three- and five-year notes on May 3
after borrowing costs jumped at a bill sale last week. The
 European Central Bank  meets May 4 to set monetary policy, and
France and  Greece  will hold elections on May 6.  U.S. Economy  The dollar declined against the yen amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  is ready to add to monetary stimulus if the
recovery falters.  The greenback remained lower after the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. said its  business barometer  decreased to
56.2 in April from 62.2 a month earlier. It was the least since
November 2009. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  U.S. economic growth slowed to a 2.2 percent annual pace in
the first quarter, the Commerce Department said April 27. That
lagged behind the 2.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to
stimulate the economy through lower borrowing costs.  The yen strengthened against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s additional monetary easing
last week failed to drive down shorter-term yields, helping
maintain the relative allure of yen-denominated assets.  U.K. House Prices  Sterling gained earlier against the dollar as a report
showed U.K. house prices increased in April, boosting demand for
the British currency. Hometrack Ltd. said home values climbed
0.1 percent from March, when they rose 0.2 percent. The currency
also advanced as the Swiss National Bank said it boosted its
pound holdings in the first quarter.  The pound appreciated as much as 0.2 percent to $1.6302,
the highest level since Aug. 31, before trading at $1.6234, down
0.2 percent. It was little changed at 81.55 pence per euro after
touching 81.23 pence, the strongest since June 2010.  The euro may extend this year’s decline against the pound
after failing to break above a key level of resistance last
week, Commerzbank AG said, citing trading patterns. Resistance
is a chart area where sell orders may be clustered.  “Euro-pound continued to ease lower on Friday and starts
this week on the defensive,”  Karen Jones , head of fixed-income,
commodity and currency technical analysis in  London , wrote in a
note to clients. “Near-term rebounds have remained capped by
the previous 82.21 pence January low. While below here, the
market remains directly offered.”  The euro is poised to fall to the 2010 low of 80.67 pence
over the next one to three months, Jones said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  