-- Heywood-Bo Link Shows Middleman Role in Driving China Deals
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-30T08:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/heywood-bo-link-shows-role-of-middlemen-in-driving-china-deals.html
For consultant Manuel Vermeer,
cementing a business deal in  China  may depend on meeting some
personal requests -- like helping secure a spot at a school
abroad or an internship for a client’s son.  Vermeer, who runs Dr. Vermeer-Consult in Gaiberg, Germany,
and has worked in China for more than 25 years, does some of the
same sort of mediation that was performed by Neil Heywood, the
British businessman whose alleged murder sparked a political
crisis in the country. Heywood worked with clients including
 Aston Martin  and got to know former Chongqing Communist Party
chief  Bo Xilai , reportedly doing favors such as getting his son
into the elite British boarding school Harrow.  Heywood’s death has cast a light on the role played by
middlemen, consultants and fixers who leverage their knowledge
of China and personal networks abroad to facilitate business
deals. Consultants with such talents are in demand as foreign
firms seek to profit from an economy where U.S. and European
chambers of commerce complain about uneven market access.  “It’s a bit difficult to say what is corruption and what
is the Chinese guanxi system,” Vermeer said, referring to the
Mandarin word that’s become a catch-all term for the networks
and connections considered crucial for doing business in the
country. “Sometimes it’s just getting an internship in  Germany 
with some company” for the son of a client in China, he said.  Better Guanxi  A survey of executives published this year by the Shanghai-
based  China Europe International Business School  found that 91
percent of 248 executives who responded believe good ties with
the Chinese authorities are critical to their success. More than
50 percent spent more time cultivating those ties in China than
at home, according to the survey.  “Most respondents agree that the competition in China is
fierce,” according to the group. “They consider their major
competitors to be Chinese local companies, mostly due to more
competitive prices and better guanxi with local government and
other institutions.”  The China-targeted consulting industry has expanded with
companies offering advice on everything from product sourcing to
strategic intelligence and market research.  China Concept
Consulting , with offices in  Hong Kong , Beijing and Shanghai,
says it “fuses rigorous business analysis with an insider’s
understanding of China’s government, business culture and
regulatory structure,” according to its website.  Another consulting firm, Hong Kong-based Sino-Bridge
Consulting Group of Companies, offers on its website “to help
you  skilfully manage  cross-cultural and cross-border differences
in the demanding economic times.”  Receptive Audience  Heywood, who was found dead in Chongqing on Nov. 15, had
his own firm, Neil Heywood & Associates Ltd., which described
itself as a “general commercial company” that could “provide
any services,” according to documents filed with the Companies
House in the U.K. The company was dissolved on March 27.  Heywood was sought out by London-based strategic consulting
firm Hakluyt & Co., the company said in an e-mailed statement.
It said he wasn’t in Chongqing on the company’s behalf. He also
worked for luxury carmaker Aston Martin and Manganese Bronze
Holdings Plc, a maker of London taxis.  Lawrence Ang, an executive director of  Geely Automobile
Holdings Ltd. (175) , which owns a 20 percent stake in Manganese
Bronze, said Heywood was hired to provide background information
on the Chinese taxi market.  ‘Rent-A-Laowai’  Heywood developed ties with one of China’s most politically
powerful families. When the official Xinhua News Agency reported
April 10 that Bo Xilai was being suspended from the ruling
Politburo, it also said Bo’s wife had been taken into custody on
suspicion of involvement in Heywood’s demise.  Heywood and Gu Kailai had “a conflict over economic
interests, which had been intensified,” Xinhua said.  Those economic interests included helping the Bo family
move money abroad illicitly, the New York Times reported, citing
a person familiar with the inquiry it didn’t identify. Heywood
also helped Bo’s son Bo Guagua get into Harrow, which he also
attended,  according to  the Telegraph.  While some middlemen like Heywood have built potentially
valuable connections to politicians and government officials, at
the other end of the consulting spectrum is a phenomenon that
has become so widespread it has spawned its own catchphrase
using the Chinese word for foreigner -- “rent-a-laowai.” Some
Chinese companies seek out the services of foreigners --
regardless of their skills -- in the belief their presence at a
meeting will lend an air of legitimacy.  Box of Tea  PT Black, who has lived in  Shanghai  for 10 years and works
in communications, described in a 2010  blog post  how a local
company hired him and a friend, who had only been in China for
48 hours, to appear at an office-opening event in the eastern
city of Lishui. He received a box of tea for his services, he
wrote.  “People rent foreigners because they don’t have any direct
connection with the international community at all,” Black said
in an interview. “If they had foreign friends or clients, they
wouldn’t need to hire a white guy.”  It’s a role that Heywood also played, Shen Wei, a
consultant at Beijing HL Consulting Co., said in a phone
interview. “Heywood approached us three years ago and wanted to
be involved  in the business ,” Shen said. “We wanted an
international look, so we agreed. He was never involved in any
projects.”  Indirect is Best  China isn’t the only country in  Asia  where foreigners use
their networks and local business acumen to piece together
deals. Bretton Sciaroni, whose Phnom Penh law firm Sciaroni &
Associates advises clients on investments in  Cambodia , said he
had to get used to a different business culture when he set up
his practice there in 1993.  “Americans like to deal with situations in a very direct
way, and sometimes the direct way is not the best way,” said
Sciaroni, a former counsel under President  Ronald Reagan  and
chairman of the American Cambodian Business Council.
“Frequently in a place like Cambodia you have to appreciate
being indirect is better than being direct.”  Steve Temkin does most of his work in the U.S., connecting
American retail firms with a Chinese company based in the
eastern city of Ningbo that he didn’t want to name. Claremont,
California-based Temkin, 53, says a big part of his job is also
making his Chinese employer look good.  ‘Flip Out’  “For my boss to have a guy like me opening up the door for
him, carrying his bag, showing him deference in front of all
these Chinese -- they just flip out,” Temkin said. “You have
an American guy who totally kisses your ass? It’s priceless to
them to have that.”  The issue of  market access  is forecast to be among the
agenda items for talks this week in Beijing led on the U.S. side
by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner . The meeting is still on track even as U.S.
and Chinese officials try to resolve the case of a blind
dissident’s flight from house arrest in Shandong province.  As  China’s economy  has grown and its markets have become
more sophisticated, the need for guanxi has receded, said Bruce
McLaughlin, chief executive at advisory company Sinogie
Consulting Ltd., which has offices in Shanghai, Sydney and Hong
Kong, according to its website.  Even though the rule of law has evolved in China, “a lot
of foreign companies think that China’s what it was 20 years
ago,” McLaughlin said. “Even back then there was this industry
of middlemen selling this narrative of guanxi and it’s been a
phenomenally successful marketing campaign. People have created
this idea that China runs on corruption and relationships.”  ‘Guanxi Monsters’  The net inflow of foreign direct investment in the
developing economies of Asia was $355 billion in 2010, up from
$144 billion in 2000, Asian Development Bank data show. Of that
total China received $185 billion in 2010, up almost fivefold
since 2000, according to the bank. China ranks 19th on a list of
the top 50 places in the world to do business, ahead of  Italy ,
 Russia ,  South Korea  and  Brazil , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Foreign companies now seek out people who understand the
business and don’t only offer connections, said  Kent Kedl ,
Shanghai-based  Greater China  and North Asia managing director
for strategic consulting firm Control Risks.  “You see both foreigners and Chinese -- we call them super
guanxi monsters -- who just come in and their first phrase is,
‘I know a guy,’” Kedl said. “That may be true. But do you know
the business? If you didn’t know the guy, would you know what to
do?”  Even so,  Vermeer  says foreign companies are naive if they
think they can do business in China without a middleman.  “They think, ‘we do business in the States, in the U.K.,
in  Africa , so China can’t be so different,’” he said. “That’s
a mistake.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  