-- Fascist Salutes Return to Greece as Anti-Immigrants Chase Voters
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-04-29T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/fascist-salutes-return-to-greece-as-anti-immigrants-chase-voters.html
Theodore Couloumbis experienced the
Nazi occupation of  Greece  as a boy and 70 years later he’s
worried he’ll witness the return of stiff-armed salutes and
fascist flags.  The Golden Dawn party may enter the parliament in Athens
for the first time after May 6 elections, current polls show, as
rising anti-immigrant sentiment among austerity-hit Greeks spurs
support for groups formerly on the political fringes. Ninety
percent of people surveyed for a  To Vima  newspaper poll
published on April 9 said immigrants are responsible for an
increase in violence and crime.  “The last thing I would want to see in the Greek
parliament is a bunch of people who give the Hitler salute,”
said  Couloumbis , 76, a professor of international relations at
the University of  Athens . “I’m old enough to remember the
absolute ugliness of that particular occupation.”  The group is known for its violent clashes in immigrant
neighborhoods and for a red and black  party logo  resembling a
disentangled swastika. Members of the group have said it’s not
Nazi or fascist and they reject any connection of its logo to a
swastika, saying it’s an ancient Greek symbol. A  video  of Golden
Dawn leader Nikolaos Michaloliakos shows him giving the fascist
salute.  Golden Dawn’s charter says its “main ideal and belief is
the nation-tribe” and that “only men and women of Greek
descent and consciousness should have full political rights.”
Michaloliakos declined to comment for this story when called on
his mobile phone.  Land Mines  The party wants  land mines  placed on the Greek-Turkish
border to stop illegal immigrants entering the country and
cancellation of Greek loan accords with the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund .  It also calls for wiping out debt accumulated since 1974
that’s deemed “illegal and burdensome.”  Greek banks  that get
state funds should be nationalized, as should all natural
resources, the party’s program says.  Golden Dawn is bolstering support by organizing security
patrols in immigrant-heavy neighborhoods and by running food
banks for Greeks suffering from five years of recession and
unemployment of almost 22 percent.  “I’m voting for Golden Dawn because I want all the
immigrants to leave,” Maria Papageorgiou, 52, said in an
interview in the Athens neighborhood where she has lived all her
life. “There’s a high crime rate, it’s a miserable situation.
They should leave and go back to their countries. Or maybe the
Germans can take them.”  Euro Status  At stake in the election is whether the next Greek
government can implement the austerity measures on which bailout
funds and euro membership depend.  The  Athens Stock Exchange  has lost 61 percent of its value
over the last two years. An index of Greek banks dropped 73
percent in the last 12 months. Greek government bonds maturing
in February 2023 are yielding 20.55 percent compared with 18.28
percent on March 14, the day after the country’s credit rating
was lifted out of the default category by  Fitch Ratings 
following the agreement of a debt swap.  Polls show Golden Dawn winning as much as 5 percent of the
vote, enough to enter parliament for the first time. The party,
which was founded two decades ago, won its first seat on the
Athens city council in 2010.  Golden Dawn’s rise comes as far-right or nationalist
parties are surging in a number of European countries including
 Hungary ,  Austria , the Netherlands and  France , where anti-
immigrant National Front leader Marine Le Pen won 17.9 percent
in the first round of presidential elections on April 22.  ‘Lazy Thinking’  “Populist parties on the left and the right rely on
fear,”  Jan Techau , director of the Brussels-based European
Center of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said
in a phone interview. “They always gain when the economy is
bad. But to just hope an improving economy will make them go
away is lazy thinking.”  In Greece, Pasok and  New Democracy , the two parties
supporting the interim government of Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  in implementing austerity measures in exchange for a
second 130 billion euro ($172 billion) loan package, are trying
to show their credentials in combating illegal immigration to
stem the loss of votes to anti-foreigner parties.  New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras, whose party leads in
opinion polls yet is short of a majority, also has to contend
with a loss of votes to parties opposed to austerity measures.  Illegal Entry  Greece, with a population of 11 million, has an estimated 1
million immigrants, many of whom are illegal, the Greek
government says. Police last year arrested 99,368 foreigners for
being in or entering the country illegally, more than half of
whom were from Pakistan, Afghanistan and  Bangladesh .  Most want to travel to other EU countries where economic
prospects are better yet many of them end up in central Athens
living in squalid apartments and are exploited by criminal
gangs, according to a statement on the Ministry of Citizen
Protection’s website.  Anti-immigrant groups “are taking advantage of the
disaffection of the average Greek voter against uncontrolled
immigration,” said Couloumbis, who is vice-president of the
 Hellenic Foundation for European & Foreign Policy  and writes a
regular column in the Athens-based  Kathimerini  newspaper.  In addition to Golden Dawn, the Independent Greeks party
has polled near 10 percent. It was set up on Feb. 24 by Panos
Kammenos after he was expelled from New Democracy for casting a
vote against the interim Papademos government.  Laos, a nationalist party that wants immigrants to be
shipped to uninhabited Greek islands before being deported, is
also vying for anti-foreigner voters. Polls show as many as 10
political parties could enter Greece’s parliament.  No Nazis  Golden Dawn caused controversy on the campaign trail when a
group of its supporters  threw bottles  and other objects at a
Pasok socialist candidate during a campaign event in the Athens
suburb of Maroussi on April 21, Athens News Agency reported.  “Parliament cannot become a reception space for the
followers of Nazism and fascism,” Pasok leader Evangelos Venizelos said in response to the incident.  During late March and early April, hundreds of police with
dogs began rounding up illegal immigrants in downtown Athens
ahead of the creation of detention centers being set up
throughout Greece, mostly at disused army bases.  Couloumbis, who experienced  Adolf Hitler ’s troops as a boy,
said Golden Dawn’s winning seats “would be quite damaging.”  “I’m old enough to have lived during the occupation of
Greece by the Germans,” he said in an interview. “The last
thing we need on top of everything else is to have a bunch of
fascists in the Greek parliament.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  