-- Father of Treasury Floaters Says Now Worst Time for Sales
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-04-30T19:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/father-of-treasury-floaters-says-now-worst-time-to-begin-sales.html
Almost two decades after advising
the U.S. to sell floating-rate notes to lower debt expenses,
Campbell Harvey says starting to issue the securities now would
be a costly mistake for American taxpayers.  “In an environment with historically low  interest rates ,
the Treasury should avoid floating-rate debt as it introduces
risk,” Harvey, a finance professor at Duke University’s Fuqua
School of Business in Durham,  North Carolina , said in a
telephone interview April 17. “If interest rates go up, it puts
the government at risk because they will need to come up with a
lot of extra revenue to pay the interest bill.”  The U.S. may detail plans for floaters on May 2 when it
discloses quarterly funding needs,  Mary Miller , the Treasury
Department’s undersecretary for domestic finance said in a Feb.
1 press briefing. The Treasury Borrowing Advisory  Committee , the
bond dealers and investors who meet quarterly with the agency,
 unanimously  endorsed them in February, more than 19 years after
Harvey told a Congressional  committee  that bonds with rates set
periodically based on a short-term benchmark would reduce costs.  Floaters would increase the link between the government’s
interest payments and movements in short-term rates, which have
been  near zero  since 2008. The Treasury has sought to lock in
borrowing costs for longer and cut the amount of outstanding
short-term bills, which  ballooned  to $2.1 trillion during the
financial crisis that began almost five years ago.  More Bills  While the administration of President  Barack Obama 
forecasts the  budget deficit  will exceed $1 trillion for the
fourth year, interest expense was 3 percent of the economy in
fiscal 2011 compared with 4.1 percent in 1999, when the U.S. ran
budget surpluses.  Floating-rate notes, which would be the first new U.S.
government debt securities since Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities were introduced in 1997, may increase the supply of
the  safest short-term investments  in the face of record demand
by money market funds and investors.  The securities may appeal to investors wary that four years
of Federal Reserve monetary stimulus will spark inflation and
cause the central bank to lift short-term rates even though
policy makers have promised to keep borrowing costs near zero
through 2014.  Bond Rates  The floaters will probably have a maturity of one- to
three-years initially, according to Bank of America Corp. The
coupon would reset periodically based on a short-term benchmark,
such as the  federal funds effective rate , or the Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp.’s Treasury overnight  repurchase agreement 
index. Payments to investors would be similar to those of U.S.
Treasury bills, while also increasing along with rates.  Spending programs to pull the economy out of the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression more than doubled
the amount of  marketable securities  outstanding to $10.34
trillion from $4.34 trillion in mid-2007.  Treasury bills , securities due in a year or less, peaked at
more than $2 trillion outstanding in August 2009 amid  government
spending  on bailouts, which started under the George W. Bush
administration in 2008 and continued under Obama. The programs
include the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program and
investments in mortgage finance companies  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac. At the end of last year, the total had fallen to $1.52
trillion, still 46 percent higher than the average of $1.04
trillion since 1996.  Less Reliance  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  was little changed at 1.92
percent at 3:42 p.m. New York time, compared to 3.43 percent a
year ago. Three-month Treasury bill rates were 0.09 percent,
while the  six-month  bill rate was 0.14 percent.  “The Treasury is interested in limiting their reliance on
bills and having to roll over so much in short-term debt,” said
 Alex Roever , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s head of short-term fixed-
income strategy in  New York  during a telephone interview on
April 23. Floaters “could become sort of a bill substitute
while continuing to give the Treasury access to lower rates in
the front-end,” he said.  A decision may be announced in two days, when the
department details sales of notes and bonds, an official who
briefed reporters on condition of not being named said on Feb.
1. They are also considering allowing negative yields at
Treasury bill auctions, as recommended by  TBAC .  The Treasury lowered its net borrowing estimate for the
current quarter today, reflecting lower government spending and
higher issuances of state and local government securities. The
estimate for April through June was revised to $182 billion, $19
billion less than projected in January. U.S. officials also see
net borrowing of $265 billion in the quarter starting July 1.  Corporate Floaters  There’s plenty of precedent for floaters from corporate
bonds. About $123 billion, or 12 percent, of the $1.01 trillion
company bonds issued in 2011 paid variable interest, according
to the  Securities Industry & Financial Markets Association .
Government agencies including Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  also
sell them.  A Barclays Capital index of U.S. floating-rate debt with
maturities of two- to three-years is up 2.8 percent this year.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch‘s U.S. Corporate and Government
Master Index has gained 1.4 percent in the same period.  The supply of inflation-linked notes, or TIPS, has surged
since the government began offering them 15 years ago to lower
U.S. borrowing expenses and allow retirement  savings  to keep
pace with inflation. There were $769 billion of  outstanding 
notes at the end of March, according to Treasury data. TIPS
returned 14.1 percent last year, compared to 9.8 percent for
Treasuries that weren’t indexed to consumer prices, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Harvey’s Testimony  Harvey, 53, recommended during House Ways and Means
Committee hearings on President Bill Clinton’s Plan for Public
Investment and Deficit Reduction  proposed  in 1993 that the
Treasury supplement its bond offerings with adjustable-coupon
debt to help reduce interest costs in the years ahead. At the
time, Treasury  10-year notes  yielded about 6 percent and the
Fed’s target rate for overnight loans between banks was 3
percent.  The University of  Chicago-trained  economist, who has taught
at Duke  since 1986 , is also a research associate at the National
Bureau of  Economic Research , the body which determines when
recessions begin and end.  If the Treasury had converted half its outstanding debt in
1993 into floating-rate notes or bonds, the interest expense
savings would have amounted to about $2 trillion given the fall
in rates since, according to estimates by Harvey.  Yields on  10-year notes  fell to a record 1.67 percent in
September. The government can still lock in near-record low
longer-term rates with fixed coupons. The Fed has kept its
target rate at an all-time low range of zero to 0.25 percent
since 2008.  ‘Enormous’ Demand  “Longer-term debt is pretty expensive right now for
investors, with long-term yields so low, so the Treasury would
probably pay less in the long run by issuing longer-term debt
rather than floaters,” said Bruce Tuckman, director of
financial markets research at the Center for Financial Stability
in New York in an interview on April 18.  “There is an enormous global demand for super-safe, short-
term assets,” Tuckman said. “Floaters are quite safe in terms
of interest-rate risk. But, relative to short-term debt,
floaters are a bet on long-term U.S. credit, which could damp
their appeal to investors who place a great premium on safety.”  Demand is increasing amid regulatory requirements that
banks hold safer assets and investors flee  Europe ’s financial
turmoil. Money has plowed into Treasuries at a record pace.  Investors bid $4.50 for every dollar of four-week Treasury
bills offered at auction in the first quarter, compared to a
bid-to-cover ratio of 2.7 during the first quarter of 2007.  Longer Maturities  “This might be an opportunity to issue debt with a fixed
term but with a floating rate that might answer some of the
demand we see in the market for high quality short-term-like
instruments,” Treasury’s Miller said Feb. 1. We believe “there
will be some benefit to our interest expense. It may also help
us reach our objective of fixing out the term of our debt,” she
said, referring to the Treasury’s goal of extending the average
maturity of their debt holdings.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has pushed the
average  maturity  of  U.S. debt  to 62.8 months from 49.4 months
during the financial crisis in first quarter of 2009, to lock in
relatively low rates by selling more long-term securities.  Matthew Anderson , a spokesman for the Treasury in
 Washington , declined to comment April 27 beyond what the
Treasury Department has already publicly said regarding the
potential floating-rate note program.  Money Market Appeal  “The Treasury can, with floaters, lock in debt at a short-
term rate without having to come back in the market as often as
they have to do for bills,” said  Priya Misra , head of U.S.
rates strategy at Bank of America in New York, in an April 10
interview. Rising rates “are a risk to the Treasury relative to
them issuing long-term coupon bonds, but not relative to them
issuing Treasury bills,” she said.  Misra favors initial monthly auctions of about $10 billion
in floaters, which may displace some bills. The Treasury sells
bills with maturities of four, 13, 26 and 52 weeks.  Floaters will appeal to the $2.6 trillion U.S. money market
mutual fund industry, TBAC said in a Feb. 1 presentation to the
Treasury. Boston-based  Fidelity Investments , the largest manager
of money-market mutual funds, and Federated Investors Inc., of
Pittsburgh, the third-biggest, supported the new debt during a
 public comment  period that ended earlier this month.  Fidelity Interested  “An appropriately structured Treasury floating-rate note
program would be attractive for our  money market funds ,” said
Kevin Gaffney, a  fund manager  at Fidelity, which has $1.5
trillion under management, including $437 billion in money
markets as of Dec. 31, in a telephone interview on April 24.
“The debt would also provide an incremental yield pick-up over
Treasury bills.”  Fidelity recommended Treasury use the shortest possible
period to reset the securities’ interest rate, and a final
maturity of one to two years for the floaters. That would enable
money funds to be “significant purchasers” and meet government
liquidity requirements, according to their public comment.  While Fed policy makers say their benchmark rate will
remain  “exceptionally low”  at least through late 2014, a pick-
up in the U.S. recovery could trigger an earlier rise. This is
the risk Duke’s Harvey and others say didn’t exist in the
higher-rate environment of 1993.  “I don’t get why the Treasury thinks floaters are a good
idea with short-term rates at zero percent, as they only have
one way to go, and that’s up,” said James Bianco, president of
Bianco Research LLC in  Chicago  in an interview on April 24.  “They should be lessening the cost of financing the United
States government for the taxpayers,” Bianco said. “The
Treasury should be issuing 100 year or perpetual bonds until the
market can’t stand it anymore to lock in these rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net ; 