-- Fortescue Seen Luring Anglo-to-Glencore on China Iron
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-04-30T08:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/fortescue-seen-luring-anglo-to-glencore-on-china-iron-real-m-a.html
With  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ’s
earnings poised to almost triple, companies looking for a
gateway to ship  iron ore  to  China  can still acquire the
Australian producer at half the valuation it fetched a year ago.  Fortescue, already the world’s fifth-largest iron ore
supplier, is adding mines, railways and port capacity to almost
triple annual output to 155 million tons by June 2013. While
analysts project its  profit  will surge nearly threefold to $2.8
billion in the 2014 fiscal year from current levels, Fortescue
is still trading at  12.2 times earnings , 50 percent less than a
year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The $18 billion company, which sells almost all of its iron
ore to China, would appeal to  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the Glencore
International Plc- Xstrata (XTA)  Plc combination and Teck Resources
Ltd., according to  RBC Capital Markets , with steel production on
the mainland forecast to increase more than 50 percent by 2025.
While any suitor would need to win the backing of founder and
biggest shareholder  Andrew Forrest , they could offer a 43
percent premium and still pay only the median earnings multiple
of mining takeovers in the last five years for the Perth-based
company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If you’re serious about getting into iron ore, this is
probably the best way that you can do it,” said Chris Drew, a
Sydney-based analyst at RBC. “You’ve got an appealing growth
profile lined up straight ahead in front of you. There’s a
substantial asset base, a reasonable cost base, all the
infrastructure you need. It’s pretty compelling.”  After rising as much as 1.8 percent earlier, Fortescue
ended trading today up 0.2 percent at A$5.64 a share in Sydney.  ‘Like Gold’  Yvonne Ball, a spokeswoman for Fortescue, declined to
comment on a possible sale of the company.  Founded in 2003 with a mine called Cloudbreak in Western
 Australia ’s Pilbara region, Fortescue made its first iron ore
shipment in May 2008, and reported revenue of  $139 million  for
the twelve months that ended in June of that year. With the
company targeting production of 55 million tons of iron ore this
year, analysts estimate revenue will reach $6.7 billion, a 48-
fold increase since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Now the third-largest iron-ore miner in Australia after  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , Fortescue generated 97
percent of its revenue from customers in China last year,
according to its  annual report . The company has its own railroad
and about a quarter of the shipping capacity at Port Hedland,
the world’s biggest terminal for iron ore shipments.  “That port capacity at Port Hedland is like gold,” said
 Peter Chilton , an investment analyst at Constellation Capital
Management Ltd. in Sydney. “Plus there’s the potential for
another port and more rail line.”  Doubling Capacity  Fortescue is spending $8.4 billion, including on rail and
port infrastructure, to raise annual output to 155 million tons
a year by 2013. The company, which last November set a record
for the  largest  iron-ore shipment to leave Port Hedland, plans
to more than double capacity at the port and is expanding its
rail network with an 81 mile rail spur to its Solomon mine.  “There’s no shortage of iron ore around the world,” said
Peter Strachan, who heads Perth-based independent advisory firm
StockAnalysis. “What there is is a shortage of iron ore which
is linked to a railway line and a port.”  Fortescue, whose $18 billion market value means that a
takeover would be the largest acquisition of an Australian
mining company ever, could be a target for London-based Anglo or
the merged combination of  Glencore (GLEN)  and Xstrata, said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about A$1 billion ($1 billion) at
Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney, citing its port and
rail assets.  ‘Diversity of Geography’  “They’re all underweight iron ore in their portfolios and
they have expressed a desire in the past,” to add iron ore,
Patkar said in a telephone interview. For Anglo, which already
mines iron ore in  Brazil  and  South Africa , a purchase of
Fortescue would add “diversity of geography,” he said.  Spokesmen at Anglo, Glencore, Xstrata and Teck Resources
all declined to comment on possible interest in Fortescue.  Anglo, which held almost $12 billion in cash at the end of
December, continues “to examine M&A opportunities as one of our
strategic priorities,” Chairman John Parker wrote to investors
in the company’s  annual report  in March. The company, which
plans to raise iron ore production to 80 million tons by 2014,
is struggling with budget overruns and delays at its Minas
Gerais iron-ore project in Brazil. In December, Anglo raised its
cost projection on that project for at least the fourth time to
as much as $5.8 billion, more than double an initial estimate.  A combination of Glencore and Xstrata, who agreed in
February to a merger that will create a commodities trading and
mining giant, is likely to prompt other global mining companies
to seek acquisitions to boost sales to BRIC economies, Bank of
America Corp. analyst Oscar Cabrera wrote in a research note
this month, referring to Brazil, Russia,  India  and China.  ‘One Fell Swoop’  Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata bought iron ore deposits in
Mauritania for $516 million last year and co-owns the $6 billion
Zanaga project in the Republic of Congo. Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore has an iron ore sales accord with a producer in Sierra
Leone, and a holds a stake in a project in Republic of Congo.
The company is studying acquiring iron ore mines, Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said last year.  “Xstrata’s buying small-scale assets and building their
own presence,” said RBC’s Drew. “They could look at doing it
in one fell swoop and buy Fortescue.”  Canada’s  Teck Resources (TCK/B) , with $4.3 billion in cash, has
also said owning iron ore mines would be beneficial, given that
the company already produces coking coal, the other key raw
material for steel making. Teck Resources may have bought a 2.89
percent stake in Fortescue, the Australian Financial Review
reported in February, without identifying its sources.  ‘Our Plate’  “Iron ore would be a good fit with our portfolio,” Chief
Executive Officer Don Lindsay told analysts Feb. 28. “We’ve
said we don’t want to get into the iron ore business by project
development, because as you can see we have quite a number of
projects on our plate right now.”  While the Vancouver-based company has expressed an interest
in adding iron ore mines, it has had a hard time finding
attractively valued assets close to China and already in
production, Lindsay said.  That may have changed with the drop in Fortescue shares,
according to Bank of America’s Cabrera.  “A combined Teck Resources and Fortescue mining entity
would be in the sweet-spot of BRIC economies’ demand,” the
Toronto-based analyst wrote in an April 9 note.  Opportunity for Buyers  Analysts predict Fortescue’s net income will climb to $2.8
billion by the year ending June 2014, from the $1 billion
reported last year, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Even with Fortescue projected to post record profit and
sales in each of the next three years, the company’s shares are
trading at 12.2 times earnings, down from 24.3 times 12 months
ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fortescue
retreated 35 percent last year as concern that  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis and a possible slowdown in China would
curb demand sent iron-ore prices to a 22-month low of $116.90
per ton in October.  The company’s shares have rebounded as China’s steel mills
increased  output  to a record 61.58 million metric tons in March.
New yuan loans that month surged to the most in a year and
money-supply grew unexpectedly after Premier Wen Jiabao moved to
bolster the economy by cutting banks’ required reserves and
helping small companies get funding.  Fortescue’s valuation has created an opportunity for
“longer-term bulls on iron ore,” said RBC’s Drew.  Third Richest  With Fortescue producing iron ore for less than $50 a ton
on average, Morgan Stanley forecast in March that average iron
ore prices will stay above $120 until at least 2017 as
production fails to keep up with demand. Steel output in China
will grow to as much as 1.1 billion tons by 2025, from about 700
million tons currently, BHP said last month.  Any buyer would need to win support of Fortescue chairman
Forrest, who told journalists in 2008 that he would load his
first shipment onto a train with a shovel if he had to. He
founded the company in 2003, after his previous major mining
venture -- a nickel company called Anaconda Nickel Ltd. -- left
some U.S. bondholders with only 26 cents for each dollar they
had invested.  A  32 percent stake  in Fortescue has made Forrest
Australia’s third-richest person with an estimated fortune of
$5.3 billion, according to Forbes magazine. Still, he may be
tempted to move on to the next venture, according to Alex Passmore, an analyst at Patersons Securities Ltd.  ‘The Right Price’  “If you offered him the right price, he could deliver you
control of the company,” Perth-based Passmore, who has a 12-
month price estimate of A$7.40 on the stock, said. Forrest’s
other business interests include nickel and gold, chairing
 Poseidon Nickel Ltd. (POS)  and buying a 19.9 percent stake in
Australian gold producer  Apex Minerals NL (AXMDA)  on April 24.  Forrest may agree to a merger paid for in shares of the
buyer, so that his fortune is less dependent on a single product
and a single consumer, according to Matthew Whittall, a
resources analyst at Renaissance Capital Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  “There’s an argument that the company could look to
diversify,” he said in a phone interview. “Andrew Forrest is
hugely exposed to iron ore and the future of iron ore.”  A drop in iron ore prices to $100 per ton or less would
push Fortescue’s stock price “materially lower,”  Jim Chanos 
said at a New York conference this month hosted by Grant’s
Interest Rate Observer, according to an April 20 note from
Grant’s. Chanos, founder of the hedge fund Kynikos Associates
LP, was one of the first investors to bet against Enron Corp.  ‘Highly Profitable’  Fortescue would remain highly profitable even at prices of
$90 or $100 a ton, the Australian newspaper said today, citing
Forrest’s response to Chanos’ comments.  At current levels, a buyer could pay 43 percent more than
Fortescue’s price of A$5.63 a share at the end of last week and
still offer just the median multiple, of 17.4 times earnings,
paid in 29 takeovers of mining companies larger than $1 billion,
over the last five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Analyst  forecasts  for accelerating earnings growth mean
that a buyer paying A$12 a share next year, or more than double
the current stock price, will still be offering less than the
median valuation, the data show.  Fortescue’s margin on earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization will remain at about 50 percent
for the “medium term,” Bank of America’s Cabrera wrote earlier
this month.  “Fortescue is eminently takeover-able,” Strachan at
StockAnalysis said. “They’re in production, they’re cash-flow
positive, they’ve got long-life reserves. They have
infrastructure, and that’s key.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net .
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  