-- German Unions Seeking Higher Pay Could Save the Euro
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-04-29T22:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/german-unions-seeking-higher-pay-could-save-the-euro.html
At times of economic crisis,
politicians like to blame investors, preferably foreign
investors.  Harold Wilson, the British prime minister in the 1960s,
pointed the finger at bankers in Zurich. Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of  Malaysia  accused  George Soros  of undermining his
country’s financial stability in the late 1990s. And in parts of
Europe today, it is increasingly common to blame  hedge funds ,
“locust”-like investors, or even credit-default swaps for the
euro-area crisis.  This is almost entirely a smokescreen. To be sure,
politicians worked closely with global megabanks in building up
public and private debt in recent decades. But the idea that
investors are now responsible for Europe’s debt crisis -- or
could somehow fix it if they stopped “speculating” -- reads like
something from the  Soviet Union  in the 1920s.  Europe’s politicians are to blame. They are the ones who
built an unsustainable gold-standard-type structure, in which
currencies are fixed in relative values and it is costly (and
frightening) to change those values. Many gold enthusiasts
believe that such monetary arrangements lead to stability, which
is completely at odds with the historical record.  The gold standard era was characterized by repeated boom-
bust cycles. Low  interest rates  encouraged public- and private-
sector borrowing and episodes of overborrowing were the norm,
not the exception. Convertibility into gold was suspended at
regular intervals, including every 15 years or so in the U.S.  Fiscal Union  Euro-area governments unfortunately cannot suspend
convertibility. It is even harder to alter exchange rates today
than it was under the gold standard, when everyone kept a
domestic currency and only its price against gold was in
question. The European Union could introduce a full fiscal
union, as the U.S. did after the Constitutional Convention of
1787. But it’s hard to see it adopting the complete Alexander Hamilton solution. In 1789, as the first  Treasury secretary , he
had the federal government take over much of the states’ debt.  Today, euro-area debt is significantly higher, relative to
the size of Europe’s economies, than the U.S.’s was in 1790.
Federal debt, post-Hamilton, was about 40 percent of gross
domestic product. Average debt in the euro area is about 90
percent of GDP, with the most indebted above 100 percent; the
details are in table 5 of the International Monetary Fund’s most
recent  Fiscal Monitor .  More important, Hamilton’s move was justified by the fact
that most state-level debt had been incurred to fight the war of
independence. Even so,  Thomas Jefferson  and  James Madison , for a
time, strenuously opposed the assumption of state debt by the
federal government.  One of the biggest problems flowing from the euro area’s
fixed currency is that wages and prices are too high in heavily
indebted states, compared with Germany and a few others, leaving
the higher-wage countries uncompetitive. Cutting wages in the
troubled periphery would be difficult politically. Lower wages
would also make it harder to pay mortgages, compounding the
problems for banks and probably for public finances, too.  The solution involves a move straight out of the gold-
standard playbook, with a modern twist. Since monetary union
began, Germany has had substantial productivity gains and only
moderate wage increases, making it highly competitive. Eurostat
reports that German wages rose 2 percent a year from 2000 to
2009, while Spanish wages increased by 4.7 percent a year in the
same period -- more than twice as fast. Because the currencies
are the same,  Germany ’s competitiveness has made it tough for
 Spain  and the other weaker states to sell their products in the
euro area.  Union Cavalry  But the cavalry may show up in the unlikely form of German
 trade unions , which are seeking big wage increases this year.
Recent demands by German workers range from 3 percent to 6
percent. As Bloomberg News  reported ,  IG Metall , Europe’s biggest
labor union with about 3.6 million workers, is demanding 6.5
percent more pay at a time when inflation is about 2 percent.  This isn’t crazy. German unemployment is at its lowest
level in two decades. German exports have been doing well around
the world. To some monetary purists, talk of higher wages
suggests that the  European Central Bank ’s policy is too loose
for current German conditions. But this is really taking an
idealized version of the gold standard too far.  The point is to have relative wages and prices adjust --
higher for Germany and lower for its European trading partners.
If German incomes rose, German consumers would have more
disposable income with which to buy imported goods. And lower
labor costs in other European countries would make their goods
and services less costly, giving them a leg up against Germany’s
export machine.  If the people in charge -- mostly Germans at this point --
insist that the adjustment must come entirely through a fall in
the absolute level of wages and prices in countries with
current-account deficits and large amounts of debt, then  Europe 
is in for a difficult, and perhaps lost, decade.  But if part of the adjustment can come through higher
German wages -- recognizing productivity gains and consistent
with continued prosperity -- the path forward will be easier.  Don’t blame the investors. Don’t wait for the politicians
to sort out the mess they created. Hope that, in an increasingly
globalized world, German trade unions still have enough muscle
to get significant wage increases.  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is co-author of “ White House
Burning : The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau  and the  healing power of zinc ; William D.
Cohan on the  federal debt ; Richard G. Sloan on  fair-value
accounting ; John Eastman on  Arizona ’s  immigration law .  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 