-- Gingrich’s Quest for Glory Ends as a Punch Line
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-04-29T15:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/gingrich-s-quest-for-glory-ends-as-a-punch-line.html
Newt Gingrich  never saw it ending
this way. The former House speaker, who has long thought of
himself as a historic figure, envisioned he would be the
candidate of innovative “big ideas” and the agenda-setter for
the 2012 U.S. election.  This either would catapult him to the White House or ensure
a consolation prize: a vice presidential nomination or secretary
of State appointment in a Republican administration. In the
worst case, he would be a genuine senior statesman in his party.  Instead, as he all-but-officially dropped out of the race
last week, Gingrich is seen as a candidate who trafficked in
flakey ideas, incendiary rhetoric and fiscal irresponsibility --
with a campaign going nowhere and deeply in debt as he traveled
on expensive private jets. He has become a favorite punch line
for the late-night television satirists  Jon Stewart ,  Stephen Colbert  and  David Letterman .  Unsuccessful presidential candidates can leave political
footprints:  Rick Santorum  this year,  Ronald Reagan  in 1976 and,
in retrospect,  Hillary Clinton  and  Mitt Romney  four years ago.  Gingrich isn’t going to join that crowd. His self-styled
big ideas didn’t catch on, politically or substantively.
Instead, he gave critics and comedians an arsenal of ammunition.  ‘Radical Islamists’  The thrice-married, ethically sanctioned Gingrich presented
his candidacy as the moral crusade necessary to save America.
Without him, our grandchildren were in danger of growing up in a
“secular, atheist country” that would be “dominated by
radical Islamists.” For Gingrich, those aren’t contradictory.  Some of his big ideas were recycled conservative Republican
orthodoxy: slash taxes, eliminate the estate tax and the levies
on  capital gains  paid chiefly by the wealthy.  Others were novel. In Florida, he vowed to build a colony
on the moon by the end of his presidency. This, he said, was
analogous to John F. Kennedy’s pledge in 1961 to put an American
on the moon by the end of the decade.  On the judiciary, he called for eliminating courts that he
said were engaged in “radically anti-American” decisions; if
necessary, he would send federal marshals and U.S. Capitol
police to arrest these radical judges. Former Republican U.S.
attorneys general and some leading conservative legal scholars
expressed alarm.  He took a pro-gun position to a new level, even managing to
suggest that battery-powered cars like the Chevrolet Volt posed
a threat to the Second Amendment. “You can’t put a gun rack in
a Volt,” he told his fellow Georgians. “We believe in the
right to bear arms and we like to bear the arms in our trucks.”
Two weeks ago, he vowed that “a Gingrich presidency will submit
to the UN a treaty that extends the right to bear arms as a
human right to every person on the planet.”  He was the first to seize on rising gasoline prices as a
political issue. No one was going to out-promise him: Gingrich
pledged to cut gas prices by about 50 percent, to $2.50 a
gallon, during his administration, without really saying how.  He offered Iowans a solution for rooting out illegal
immigrants: “We send a package to every person who is here
illegally,” he explained. “When it’s delivered, we pull it up,
we know exactly where they are, it’s on the computer.”  He didn’t shy away from foreign policy. On the  Middle East ,
he declared that the Palestinians were an “invented people.”
He was against involvement in  Libya  before he was for it.  Gingrich also had a knack for self-inflicted wounds. Last
year, appealing to the anti-government  Tea Party , he said the
chief culprits of the financial crisis were the mortgage
companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)  At a Dartmouth College
debate in October, the one-time history professor suggested that
Congressman Barney Frank and former Senator Christopher Dodd,
both Democrats, should be thrown in jail for their complicity in
protecting these government-sponsored enterprises.  Freddie Mac  On Nov. 16, it was revealed that Gingrich had been on the
 Freddie Mac  payroll over a period of years, raking in $1.6
million. He initially explained that he had been hired to serve
as a historian. When he finally provided the specifics of his
contract; his academic credentials weren’t mentioned.  To be sure, the Georgia Republican showed remarkable
resilience. After initially getting in the contest he scored
well in some polls, perhaps thanks to his high-name recognition
from his dominant role in politics during the 1990s. He
frittered away that advantage, going on an exotic vacation and
eschewing tough retail campaigning, and much of his top staff
quit in frustration.  His forceful presence allowed him to dominate some of the
primary debates and he forged back into the lead. He was the
front-runner before the Freddie Mac revelations. He was
clobbered in the initial contests, then came back in mid-January
to score an upset win in the  South Carolina  nominating contest.  Romney waged a relentless and vicious assault on Gingrich;
almost half the total ads in  Iowa , where seven Republican
candidates were competing, were anti-Gingrich messages, most
from the Romney political action committee. After South
Carolina, these Romney forces flooded the  Florida  airwaves with
more attacks.  Some of the hits were fair game, particularly those
emphasizing the Freddie Mac connection or Gingrich’s more
incendiary comments. Others weren’t, for example the repeated
assertion that Gingrich’s fellow Republicans removed him as
House speaker in 1998 because of his ethical transgressions.  Still, when the heat was on, he wilted. His counterattacks
on Romney’s private-equity background were clumsy and
counterproductive. In a crucial Florida debate, Romney dominated
him. In the final 10 weeks of the primary campaign, Gingrich
came off as erratic and, at times, comical, visiting zoos and
aimlessly ruminating. At times, he suggested that he was just
too big for this campaign and probably the country.  He seemed more intent on creating a cult than a campaign. He
failed at both.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau  and the  healing power of zinc ; William D.
Cohan on the  federal debt ;  Simon Johnson  on  German unions ;
Richard G. Sloan on  fair-value accounting ; John Eastman on
Arizona’s  immigration law .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 