-- Goldman’s O’Neill Reported Among Candidates for BOE Chief
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-04-30T10:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/goldman-sachs-s-o-neill-reported-among-candidates-for-boe-chief.html
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
Chairman  Jim O’Neill  was reported by the Sunday Times to be a
candidate for Bank of England governor, the second  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  alumnus linked to the race to replace  Mervyn King .  O’Neill, 55, is a contender and may have been approached by
U.K. Treasury officials several months ago, the London-based
newspaper reported yesterday, without saying how it obtained the
information. O’Neill declined to comment.  King is scheduled to leave the bank in June 2013 after
serving the maximum two five-year terms allowed. Speculation in
press reports on potential successors has intensified in recent
weeks to include the former chief of the U.K. civil service,  Gus O’Donnell , and  Mark Carney , head of Canada’s central bank and a
former employee of New York-based Goldman Sachs.  When asked in September 2007 if he would be interested in
the role at a time when the government was considering whether
to reappoint King, O’Neill told  John Dawson  on Bloomberg
Television that he couldn’t imagine that “anyone would be daft
enough to offer it to me.” He added that he very much enjoyed
his then job as head of global economic research at Goldman
Sachs.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has said there
will be a proper process to appoint the governor, according to a
Treasury spokesman asked for comment. The process hasn’t begun
and won’t start until the fall, said the official, who declined
to be named in line with government practice. A Bank of England
spokesman referred the matter to the Treasury.  ‘Good Candidates’  “We’ll have to make a decision in due course,”  Danny Alexander , chief secretary to the Treasury, said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “I’m sure there are a lot of
good candidates around.”  Odds offered by Dublin-based bookmaker Paddy Power Plc on
O’Neill becoming the next  Bank of England  governor were at 5-1,
meaning a successful 1-pound ($1.63) wager would return a 5-
pound profit. Deputy Governor Paul Tucker is the favorite at 3-
1, followed by John Varley, former chief executive officer of
Barclays Plc, at 7-2. Financial Services Authority Chairman
Adair Turner and Gus O’Donnell are tied for third place at 4-1.  Goldman Sachs has historically been a breeding ground for
central bank chiefs. Carney, European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi and Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
William Dudley worked there. Bank of England policy maker Ben Broadbent was also employed by the bank, reporting to O’Neill.  O’Neill took up his current position in 2010 after a career
at the investment bank covering currencies and economics, during
which time he created the BRICs acronym to describe large
 emerging markets . Before joining in 1995, he worked at Swiss
Bank Corp. and Bank of America Corp. In 2010, he led a group of
investors seeking to buy English soccer club Manchester United.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  