-- Google Staff Said They Were Unaware of Data Gathering, FCC Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-29T06:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/google-staff-said-they-were-unaware-of-data-gathering-fcc-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  employees who worked on
a mapping-service project told the  U.S. Federal Communications
Commission  they didn’t initially know about software that would
gather personal data, even though an engineer disclosed the
program’s details, according to an agency report.  The unidentified engineer, who made the disclosure in an
internal project document, also told at least two fellow workers
about how the software program would access so-called payload
data, which includes personal information such as e-mails,
according to the FCC report, which was re-released yesterday by
the company with fewer portions redacted.  The FCC compiled the report as part of an investigation
into whether Google’s collection of private data through its
Street View map product was a violation of the Communications
Act. The agency said in the April 13 document that it decided
not to penalize Google for the data-gathering, though it
assessed a $25,000 fine for not cooperating with the inquiry.  “Engineer Doe specifically told two engineers working on
the project, including a senior manager, about collecting
payload data,” the agency said in the report. “Nevertheless,
managers of the Street View project and other Google employees
who worked on Street View have uniformly asserted in
declarations and interviews” that they didn’t know about the
private-data gathering, which began in 2007, until April or May
2010.  Street View sends cars to photograph buildings and homes in
neighborhoods. Google has said the data collection was a mistake,
and last week said that it would pay the FCC’s penalty to
conclude the inquiry.  Privacy Concerns  The  Mountain View , California-based company has been facing
rising scrutiny from federal regulators about how it handles
private data. Last year, Google agreed to 20 years of
independent privacy audits to settle claims with the Federal
Trade Commission that it deceived users and violated its own
privacy policies with the Buzz social network.  The report’s details were reported earlier by the Los
Angeles Times. Google released the less-redacted version of the
FCC report after saying earlier this week it had cooperated
fully with the agency.  “We decided to voluntarily make the entire document
available except for the names of individuals,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement. “While we disagree with some of
the statements made in the document, we agree with the FCC’s
conclusion that we did not break the law. We hope that we can
now put this matter behind us.”  ‘Sensitive Information’  For three years starting in May 2007, Street View cars
collected from wireless networks content that wasn’t needed for
the project, according to the FCC’s April 13 findings. Google
gathered e-mail and text messages, passwords, Internet-usage
history and “other highly sensitive personal information,” the
FCC said. Google “grounded” the cars after learning about the
data gathering.  The agency didn’t penalize Google for the activities
because communications and wiretap law were unclear and the
engineer who said he told other workers, called “Engineer Doe”
in the report, had declined to testify, the FCC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  