-- Libya’s Former Oil Head Ghanem Found Dead in Vienna River
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   S t e p h e n   V o s s
-- 2012-04-30T15:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/libya-s-former-noc-head-ghanem-found-dead-in-vienna-s-danube.html
Shokri Ghanem,  Libya ’s former prime
minister and top oil official who defected to the rebels in
June, was found dead in the Danube River in Vienna, Austrian
police said.  Ghanem’s body was discovered floating in the river at 8:40
a.m. yesterday, a few hundred meters from where he lived,
according to Roman Hahslinger, a spokesman for the police in the
Austrian capital. Initial signs show death by drowning. A full
autopsy and toxicology tests will be carried out in coming days.  “The result of the preliminary autopsy is that death
occurred because of drowning,” Hahslinger told a press briefing
by the side of the Danube today, near a bridge known as
Reichsbruecke. “We have yet to find any signs of foul play.”  The body, fully clothed and found 20 meters (65 feet) from
the shoreline, had not been in the water for more than one or
two hours. His daughter, who lives with him, said Ghanem was
feeling unwell the night before, the police said.  “The rumor of a heart attack is being examined closely,”
Hahslinger said. “The preliminary autopsy didn’t show any
evidence of this.”  2011 Uprising  Ghanem, 69, was previously chairman of Libya’s state-run
National Oil Corp. The uprising against former Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi  broke out in February 2011, and Ghanem left the
government about four months later, the rebel National
Transitional Council said in a June 1 statement. He didn’t join
the post-Qaddafi administration, and the rebel council picked
Nuri Berruien to head the NOC last September.  Libya has the largest oil reserves in  Africa , according to
BP Plc, and is the continent’s third-biggest producer. The
nation pumped about 1.35 million barrels a day this month,
approaching its pre-war output of 1.6 million barrels, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ghanem said in February that he was living in  Austria ,
working as a consultant, and that he would like to return to his
home country.  Until defecting, he served from 2006 as the state company’s
chairman, the highest-ranking position in Libya’s oil industry
as the country had no energy ministry. As such, he represented
Libya at OPEC’s ministerial conferences of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  OPEC Research Head  Ghanem had lived in Vienna through most of the 1990s when
he was OPEC’s head of research. The producer group had no
comment on his death today when Bloomberg News called its
Vienna-based secretariat, where he worked from 1993 to 2001. He
later moved back to Libya after Qaddafi appointed him prime
minister in 2003, with the task of opening up the economy to
private investment, both local and foreign.  Ghanem earned a bachelor’s degree in economics from the
University of Libya in 1963 and a doctorate in international
economics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at  Tufts
University  in  Boston  in 1975, according to the NOC’s website. He
was married and had a son and three daughters.  While oil output has recovered after falling to virtually
zero during the civil conflict, political upheaval still
threatens to disrupt supply. Arabian Gulf Oil Co. may halt
production if the government fails by May 3 to clear protesters
who have been blocking the entrance to the state-run company’s
headquarters in Benghazi for a week, Abdul Jalil Mayuf, manager
of the company’s information department said today by telephone.
Agoco supplies about one quarter of Libya’s crude.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss in London at 
 sev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  