-- Ikea Joins Indonesia Rush to Tap Demand Amid 6.5% Growth: Retail
-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 2012-04-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/ikea-joins-indonesia-rush-to-tap-demand-amid-6-5-growth-retail.html
Teti Umarih is doing brisk business
selling Ikea products in Indonesia via  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social
networking website. Before long, the Jakarta entrepreneur will
get a new competitor with the furniture chain planning its own
debut in the Southeast Asian nation.  A rising middle class that is earning more and has access
to credit at cheaper rates is aiding Umarih and global retailers
in Indonesia, where spending accounts for 60 percent of gross
domestic product. That’s a reversal from 15 years ago, when the
Asian financial crisis  dented  economic growth.  The retail push into Indonesia comes as the economy grew
more than 6 percent last year and as the central bank has cut
 interest rates  to a record low. That may help propel sales for
Ikea,  Carrefour SA (CA) ,  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , South Korean department
store  Lotte Shopping Co. (023530)  and luggage maker  Samsonite
International SA (1910) , as they look past infrastructure hurdles to
invest in the world’s fourth most populous nation.  “This is just a beginning,” said Adrian Joezer, an
analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas. “The middle class is small
compared with the total population. So the opportunity is out
there.”  Facebook Entrepreneur  Umarih, the homemaker turned Facebook entrepreneur, funds
her business, called Toko Barang Ikea, with a  credit card  she
said charges her no interest on purchases for three months.
Umarih, who is pregnant with her second child and wore a
headscarf and flowery dress as she spoke in her suburban home,
said she has sales of about 30 million rupiah ($3,264) a month
by buying the Swedish retailer’s household goods via Singapore
and selling them to Indonesian shoppers via Facebook.  Ikea plans to enter Indonesia in 2014 after signing a
franchise agreement with  PT Hero Supermarket. (HERO)  Delft,
Netherlands-based Inter Ikea Systems BV is controlled by
Sweden’s  Ingvar Kamprad , who ranks fourth on the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index with an estimated net worth of about $43
billion as of April 26.  Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s biggest economy, regained an
investment-grade  credit rating  after 14 years last year and its
consumers have benefited from low interest.  Bank Indonesia  cut
its benchmark rate to 5.75 percent in February, taking advantage
of easing inflation to support growth in a deteriorating global
economy.  ‘Aggressive Banks’  Indonesia’s gross domestic product expanded 6.5 percent
last year, the fastest pace since before the Asian financial
crisis, benefiting lenders as consumers borrowed more to finance
homes, vehicles and appliances.  Consumer loans rose 24 percent to 667.2 trillion rupiah
last year from 537.1 trillion rupiah in 2010, according to Bank
 Indonesia .  “Banks are now more aggressive,” said Joezer. “They know
that Indonesia is a very lucrative market.”  The value of credit card transactions surged 34 percent to
178.2 trillion rupiah in 2011 from 2009, according to the
Indonesian Credit Card Association.  One result of greater affluence and better access to loans:
Indonesians are getting more adventurous. “We believe shoppers
are becoming more impulsive,” Dian Haryokusumo, an analyst at
Credit Suisse, said in a research note.  Indonesians who said they never planned purchases rose to
21 percent in 2011 from 10 percent in 2003, Haryokusumo said,
citing a Nielsen survey. GDP per capita based on purchasing
power parity grew to $4,325 in 2010 from $3,341 in 2006.  ‘Hot Spot’  Samsonite Chief Executive Officer Tim Parker called
Indonesia his company’s next “hot spot” in a March Bloomberg
Television interview.  The luggage company, which in 2008 formed a joint venture
with local firm  PT Mitra Adiperkasa (MAPI) , said it wants to boost
sales of its Samsonite brand by “double digits” this year by
targeting affluent consumers. At the same time, the Mansfield,
Massachusetts-based company is pushing to double sales of its
American Tourister brand for the country’s middle class.  PT Matahari Putra Prima (MPPA) , an Indonesian hypermarket
operator, sold control of its department-store arm to a unit of
U.K. buyout firm CVC Capital Partners Ltd. for 7.2 trillion
rupiah in January 2010.  Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour, Europe’s
biggest retailer, opened its first store in Indonesia in 1998
and now runs 84 outlets.  “We plan to add five to 10 outlets in Indonesia this
year,” said Satria Hamid, spokesman at PT Carrefour Indonesia.  Infrastructure Hurdles  Companies still face hurdles in expanding. Indonesia’s
infrastructure is a shortcoming even as the country becomes more
important in the world economy, an analysis by the  World
Economic Forum   found .  “Its roads and railroads are generally in poor condition,
and the capacity of seaports is extremely limited,” the report
said.  Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono won upgrades
from  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service, which brought
Indonesia to investment level as he pledged to contain the
 budget deficit  and allocate resources to infrastructure
projects, fight corruption and woo investment to spur economic
growth.  Seattle-based Starbucks, which has more than 100 stores in
the country, plans to invest more there,  John Culver , Starbucks’
head of  China  and Asia Pacific, said in an interview. “We are
going to continue to see Indonesia as a big growth opportunity
for the company,” he said.  Starbucks’ operating margin in its China and Asia Pacific
business was 34.6 percent in the quarter ended Jan. 1, topping
the 21.8 percent for its Americas business, according to the
company’s January earnings statement.  Umarih acknowledges the potential pressure to local
business people from the foreign entrants. The arrival of the
real Ikea may bring an end to her business. She’s still counting
on the consumer boom to keep her going.  “Maybe I will keep my online business by importing things
that aren’t available here, or I may open a travel agency,” she
said. “More Indonesians are getting richer and like to spend
their money by buying fancy stuff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  