-- Indianapolis Colts Say Final Draft Pick Harnish Is ‘Relevant’
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-29T04:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/indianapolis-colts-take-second-quarterback-as-final-draft-pick.html
The  Indianapolis Colts , who had the
first draft pick with Stanford University quarterback  Andrew Luck , ended the draft yesterday with the Northern Illinois
quarterback Chandler Harnish as the 253rd selection.  Luck and Harnish were among 11 quarterbacks chosen during
the three-day National Football League draft at Radio City Music
Hall in  New York .  The final selection in the draft has become known as Mr.
Irrelevant.  “At the end of the day, I’m just happy to be wanted by a
team and I’m happy to be an Indianapolis Colt,” Harnish told
reporters when asked how he felt about being Mr. Irrelevant. “I
was still hoping for the best, but preparing for the worst. The
worst being a free agent type thing.”  Harnish said he was prepared to compete against Luck, who
was selected by the Colts after they released four-time Most
Valuable Player  Peyton Manning .  Colts General Manager Ryan Grigson called Harnish “very
smart and mobile.”  “He is relevant, because otherwise you wouldn’t burn a
pick on somebody,” Grigson told reporters. “He is a really
good leader and you don’t get a bad word about this guy. He’s
got ability and we are happy with the pick. He was up there on
our board higher than when we took him, believe me.”  ‘League Getting Faster’  The  New York Jets  were looking for speed in their first
three picks of the draft: defensive end Quinton Coples, receiver
Stephen Hill and linebacker Demario Davis.  “We wanted to get faster,” said Joey Clinkscales, vice
president for college scouting. “The league is getting
faster.”  In the final day yesterday, the Jets took Wake Forest
safety Josh Bush, and running back Terrance Ganaway and guard
Robert Griffin, both from Baylor in the sixth round. They added
strong safety Antonio Allen from  South Carolina  and Western
Michigan wide receiver Jordan White in the seventh.  The  New York Giants  chose tight end Adrien Robinson from
Cincinnati and Brandon Mosley, an offensive tackle from Auburn,
in the fourth round, and Matt McCants, a tackle from Alabama at
Birmingham in the sixth. North Carolina State defensive tackle
Markus Kuhn was their final pick in the seventh.  “We drafted the best guys,” said Giants General Manager
Jerry Reese. “It just so happened some of the best guys were
offensive guys this time. We don’t go in there saying, ‘Let’s
balance it out, offense and defense.’ We just try to go in there
and get the best players.”  Alabama , which had the most players drafted at eight, is
part of the  Southeastern Conference , which saw the most players
picked at 42. The Big 10 was second with 41 players selected.  In addition to 11 quarterbacks, among those drafted, were
50 defensive backs, 33 wide receivers, 33 linebackers, 24
tackles, 21 running backs, 18 each of guards and defensive
tackles, 22 defensive ends, 12 tight ends, four kickers, three
centers, two nose tackles and two punters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  