-- King Faces 10 Days of Angst on BOE Stimulus
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-30T11:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/king-faces-10-days-of-angst-on-boe-stimulus-as-recession-festers.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  has 10 days left to make up his mind on whether he can risk
halting stimulus for an economy trying to shake off a recession.  Reports starting tomorrow on  manufacturing , construction
and services, as well as consumer credit and  house prices , will
set the scene for data crunching by officials building up to a
decision on quantitative easing on May 10. King and the eight
other members of the Monetary Policy Committee will discuss new
economic forecasts that will determine whether they extend QE or
halt it at 325 billion pounds ($529 billion).  Overshadowing the MPC’s deliberations is the U.K.’s first
double-dip recession since the 1970s as its longest peacetime
slump for a century persists. While  gross domestic product  has
fallen for the past two quarters, King must also take into
account an inflation rate that is above the central bank’s
target and policy makers’ forecasts.  “It’s not getting any easier for King,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London and a former
Bank of England official. “The GDP release has made the
situation more ambiguous in terms of what the MPC might do in
May and the inflation story is complicating matters.”  Policy makers are due to gather for the “pre-MPC meeting”
with economists and other officials at the Bank of England’s
headquarters in London on May 4, where they will be briefed on
economic developments. They will start their two-day policy
meeting on the afternoon of May 9 and announce the decision at
noon the following day.  Services Slowdown  The pound strengthened against the euro for a third day,
climbing to a 22-month high, and touched an eight-month high
against the dollar. Sterling rose 0.3 percent to 81.26 pence per
euro at 12:32 p.m.  London  time. The U.K. currency was little
changed at $1.6269 after climbing to $1.6302, the highest since
Aug. 31. The  10-year gilt  yield fell 1 basis point to 2.12
percent.  Reports this week may point to a slowdown in manufacturing,
services and construction. A gauge of  factory activity  will fall
to 51.5 from 52.1 in March, according to the median of 27
forecasts in a Bloomberg News poll. An index of services, the
largest part of the economy, will decline to 54.1 from 55.3,
while a construction measure will also fall, economists said in
separate surveys. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  PMI Contrast  The reports will follow data on April 25 that showed the
economy shrank 0.2 percent in the three months through March.
That contrasted with the purchasing-manager reports for the
period, which pointed to growth of as much as 0.5 percent,
according to Markit Economics, which compiles the surveys.  “It’s a trickier decision than recently,” said Victoria Cadman, an economist at Investec Securities in London. “They’ve
got a big mix of evidence not only to look at, but to make a
judgment on whether they agree or disagree with those particular
releases. It could be a fairly detailed discussion.”  While policy makers have indicated a preference for
underlying indicators over headline GDP in assessing the
economy,  Martin Weale  said on April 26 that the argument for
more stimulus has increased after the contraction. The central
bank is due to finish its current QE round early next month.  The MPC also said this month that GDP declines “might
further damage household and business confidence, even if the
underlying pace of economic expansion were stronger.” Policy
maker  Adam Posen , who said before the GDP report that the
economy is probably stronger than what official data will show,
has also warned of “confidence shocks.”  ‘Right Strategy’  David Miles, the only MPC member to vote for more QE in
April, said in an April 24 interview that growth is “pretty
weak” and seeking more stimulus was the “right strategy.”  “We do not believe the economy is as weak as the official
data portray, but it is still likely to be growing well below
potential next year,”  Brian Hilliard , an economist at Societe
Generale SA in London and a former Bank of England official,
said in a note published today. “Our current forecast is the
MPC has reached the end of the QE road, but a significant risk
remains of a further increase later in the year or in 2013.”  King is due to speak in London on May 2, when he delivers a
public lecture hosted by the British Broadcasting Corp. at 9
p.m. He will also take questions from the audience.  Earlier that day, the Bank of England will publish  consumer
credit  and mortgage approvals data, while  Nationwide Building
Society  will release its monthly house-price report on May 3.
Hometrack Plc said today that  property values  rose in April for
a second month, though it doesn’t expect the gain to be
sustained.  U.S. Growth  The  European Central Bank  will probably keep its  benchmark
interest rate  at a record-low 1 percent at a meeting in
 Barcelona  this week. It holds its policy meetings outside
 Frankfurt  twice a year.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve officials said last week that
they expect growth to stay “moderate,” and adhered to a goal
of keeping borrowing costs low through 2014. The world’s largest
economy expanded at a 2.2 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, less than economists forecast.  Other central banks are continuing to expand their stimulus
programs. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  said on April 27 that it will boost
its asset-purchase fund to 40 trillion yen ($496 billion) by
June 2013, compared with the previous target of 30 trillion yen
by year-end. Central banks in  India  and  Brazil  both cut their
benchmark  interest rates  this month.  Inflation Concerns  For Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Britain’s return to
recession won’t be enough to counter  inflation concerns  at the
Bank of England. RBS economists including Richard Barwell said
last week the central bank won’t expand stimulus again, changing
a previous forecast of a 50 billion-pound increase in the second
half of 2012.  “Recent economic data -- notably stickiness in inflation
and an improvement in a number of survey indicators -- mark a
continuing evolution within the MPC,” the economists said.
There has been an “incremental move” away from a loosening
bias, they said, noting Posen’s decision to abandon a push for
more QE at the April policy meeting.  Consumer-price growth accelerated in March for the first
time in six months, quickening to an annual 3.5 percent.
Inflation has been above the central bank’s 2 percent target
every month since December 2009.  More than half of Britons feel pessimistic about their
family’s disposable income as inflation outpaces wage growth,
Deloitte LLP said today, citing a  YouGov Plc (YOU)  survey. Fifty-one
percent of the 1,000 people in the quarterly study carried out
on March 30 said they are downbeat about their household’s
disposable income compared with a reading of 49 percent three
months earlier, Deloitte said in an e-mailed statement.  “The MPC is facing the difficulty of handling weaker
growth and high inflation,” said  Jens Larsen , chief European
economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in London and a former Bank of
England official. “It makes the communication challenge
bigger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  