-- Korea Revives Plan to Sell Woori Stake
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-04-29T03:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/korea-revives-plan-to-sell-woori-stake.html
South Korea set a July 27 deadline
for preliminary bids to buy a stake in Woori Finance Holdings
Co., kicking off the government’s third attempt to unload its
holding in the nation’s largest financial company by assets.  Potential buyers must offer for a minimum 30 percent stake
in  Woori, (053000)  the  Public Fund Oversight Committee , which oversees
the companies that have been bailed out by the government, said
in a statement today. That would cost at least 2.9 trillion won
($2.6 billion) based on the company’s market value as of April
27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak , who had pledged to
sell state-owned assets and consolidate the nation’s banks, has
been unable to lure investors to Woori since the initial attempt
in 2010. The government is betting on a rally in global equity
markets this year and a legal change that will ease suitors’
cash-payment requirements.  “We’ve seen meaningful changes in the financial-industry
environment in the past year and concluded that we can resume
our sale efforts,” the committee’s secretary-general Kim
Yongbeom told reporters. He expects a preferred bidder to be
selected in October.  South Korea ’s 60-stock  Kospi financial index  has gained 6.6
percent this year, while the nation’s benchmark equity gauge has
climbed 8.2 percent. The country’s lawmakers this month modified
payment rules for acquisitions, allowing bidders to make offers
that combine cash and stock and lowering the cash burden for
potential buyers.  ‘Strong Will’  Shares of Seoul-based Woori, whose businesses include
banks, a brokerage and an insurer, fell 0.4 percent to close at
12,000 won in Seoul ahead of the announcement. The stock has
advanced 27 percent this year.  Woori won’t be broken up into separate businesses for the
sale, according to the statement.  South Korea abandoned an attempt to sell the stake in
August after receiving only one bid, led by South Korean
private-equity firm MBK Partners Ltd. It canceled the first
auction in December 2010.  “It’s hard to see how the sale environment has changed
since the two failures,” said Lee Young Seog, a  fund manager  at
Seoul-based  Korea Investment Management Co. , which oversees the
equivalent of about $22 billion. “The government has a strong
will toward privatization, but there aren’t many in the market
who can afford such a big purchase.”  Woori  was created in 2001 as a holding company for banks
that the government rescued following the Asian financial crisis
in 1997-1998, as part of a push to make the banking industry
more competitive.  The government spent 12.8 trillion won to aid Woori and has
recouped 5.6 trillion won so far through block sales of shares
and dividends. It now  owns  57 percent of Woori through state-run
Korea Deposit Insurance Corp.  “I’m confident that the market has grown enough to absorb
a deal as big as Woori,” Financial Services Commission Chairman
Kim Seok Dong told reporters.  Daewoo Securities Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Samsung
Securities Co. were hired in September 2010 to help Korea
Deposit sell its stake in Woori.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  