-- NAB to Cut 1,400 U.K. Staff as Sale Ruled Out
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-04-30T07:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/nab-to-cut-1-400-u-k-staff-as-weakening-economy-trims-options.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , owner
of Britain’s Clydesdale Bank, will cut more than 1,400 jobs in
the U.K. after the deteriorating local economy torpedoed plans
to sell the unprofitable business.  The Melbourne-based bank will incur 456 million pounds
($742 million) in costs to shrink the U.K. unit, it said in a
 statement  today. National Australia Bank will transfer a 6.2
billion-pound U.K. commercial property portfolio, most of it
loans, to the group balance sheet, leaving Clydesdale to focus
on individual borrowers and smaller businesses.  The decision to pare back comes after National Australia
Bank injected at least 800 million pounds of capital into the
U.K. since 2010 as property loans soured and funding costs rose.
Chief Executive Officer Cameron Clyne, who said in 2009 his bank
had to either grow in Britain or exit, said today it’s no longer
viable to expand through acquisitions or sell the business.  “It’s all they could do, but it’s been a disaster,” said
Brett Le Mesurier, a Sydney-based banking analyst at BBY Ltd.
“It’s taken them too long. Hopefully, this will bring an end to
the ongoing capital drain.”  National Australia Bank climbed 0.3 percent to A$25.23 at
the close in Sydney, extending this year’s gain to 8 percent.
Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index rose 0.8 percent.  Double-Dip Recession  Clydesdale Bank  had become over-reliant on commercial
property, where bad debts have risen since March 2010, Clyne
said. Charges at the U.K. business led to a 16 percent drop in
National Australia Bank’s net income to A$2.05 billion ($2.1
billion) for the six months ended March 31, it said today.  “In the last half year, there has been a significant
downgrade in the growth prospects of the U.K. economy,” Clyne
said in the statement. “The action we are taking is needed to
adapt to this current economic environment.”  The U.K. economy shrank in the first quarter as Britain
slid into its first double-dip recession since the 1970s, data
this month showed. Gross domestic product fell 0.2 percent from
the fourth quarter of 2011, when it declined 0.3 percent.  After buying Clydesdale Bank in 1987, National Australia
Bank chose to sell Irish assets acquired through the deal to
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  for 967 million pounds in 2004. Then-CEO  John
Stewart  opted to invest further in the U.K. instead of selling
the entire Irish and U.K. business, valued that year by  Credit
Suisse First Boston  at A$11 billion.  “It’s not been a strategy that’s delivered the right
returns,” Clyne, who took charge of National Australia Bank in
January 2009, told reporters on a conference call.  Rising Defaults  The bank’s  U.K. operations  posted a loss of 25 million
pounds in the six months ended March 31, compared with cash
earnings of 77 million pounds a year earlier, National Australia
Bank said. Bad and doubtful debts from commercial real-estate
loans more than doubled to 197 million pounds from the preceding
six months.  The cost of raising money to fund Clydesdale Bank’s lending
business increased after Moody’s Investors Service cut the
lender’s credit ratings in September. As property loans soured,
National  Australia  Bank in January injected an additional 400
million pounds into the U.K. business.  No Offers  Plans for a sale have been stymied because the U.K. pound
is near a 27-year low against the Australian dollar, while a
deteriorating British economy means potential buyers face their
own problems, National Australia Bank said.  “We’ve never received offers for this business,” Clyne
told investors on a conference call. “Growth through
acquisition in the U.K. is not an attractive option. These are
hard decisions but the right decisions.”  The U.K. job cuts, equivalent to 17 percent of National
Australia Bank’s British workforce, will be completed by
September 2015. The lender employs 45,000 people worldwide.  The remaining U.K. business will focus on the retail market
and lending to small and medium-sized businesses in  Scotland  and
northern  England , the bank said.  Of the total 456 million-pound restructuring cost,
redundancies, software write-offs and lease breaks will account
for 157 million pounds. About 120 million pounds relate to
increased claims from payment protection insurance, the bank
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  