-- Najib Faces Early Polls Dilemma After Malaysia Protests
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2012-04-30T09:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/najib-faces-early-polls-dilemma-after-malaysia-protests.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak will decide whether to proceed with early elections after
police clashed with demonstrators seeking faster and more
radical changes to the country’s voting rules.  Police fired tear gas and fought with protesters in  Kuala
Lumpur  as they marched at the weekend calling for “reform” and
cleaner elections. All 512 people, arrested for defying a new
government ban on street rallies, were later released, Assistant
Commissioner of Police Ramli Mohamed Yoosuf said by phone,
estimating the crowd size at between 40,000 and 50,000 people.  “There will be a lot of pressure on Najib” from within
and outside Malaysia to go ahead with elections this year,
Bridget Welsh, a political science professor at the  Singapore
Management University , said by phone yesterday. “If he goes
without reform, he opts for a very high-risk strategy where the
opposition will gain more support and the electorate will become
even more polarized.”  Preparations for an election have begun, Najib said in
December. His ruling National Front coalition, which has
governed  Southeast Asia ’s third-biggest economy for five decades,
may call a vote as early as May or June, according to four
officials who spoke last month. The poll required by early next
year comes in the face of decelerating growth and a resurgent
opposition led by  Anwar Ibrahim .  Water Cannons  “This was not a peaceful rally and the motive was clearly
to riot,” Inspector-General of Police Ismail Omar told
reporters today. “Police will investigate and take action
against all those who have been involved in the rally, directly
and indirectly.”  Najib told the official Bernama news services yesterday
that he didn’t know whether the protest might delay Malaysia’s
13th general election and expressed regret that violence
occurred.  Gross domestic product  growth may ease to 4 percent this
year from 5.1 percent in 2011 on a weak global outlook, slower
than regional rivals Indonesia, Thailand and  Vietnam , according
to the  Asian Development Bank . While the FTSE Bursa Malaysia
KLCI Index hit a record on April 3, its 2.6 percent gain this
year lags benchmarks in neighboring countries.  Police  used water cannons as some marchers threw shoes,
bottles and chairs while trying to break through barricades to
enter a square where the Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections,
or  Bersih , wanted to hold a sit-in. Najib’s government enacted
legislation this month banning such protests after police
detained more than 1,600 people during a similar rally in July.  Market Impact  More than 250,000 people attended the protest, Bersih co-
chairwoman Ambiga Sreenevasan was quoted as saying by the
Malaysiakini news portal yesterday, dismissing the police figure
as too low.  The ringgit halted four days of gains to drop 0.2 percent
to 3.0262 per dollar in Kuala Lumpur today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s benchmark stock index closed
0.2 percent higher.  The protest “may have some impact in terms of  risk premium 
for the ringgit,” said Sim Moh Siong, a currency strategist at
Bank of Singapore Ltd. “It introduces a bit more uncertainty in
terms of the election timetable and what that means for further
reforms being introduced by the government.”  Arrests during last year’s rally led to a temporary drop in
the prime minister’s approval rating. A delayed vote would
prevent him from taking advantage of a swell in support that
followed increases to civil servant salaries and cash payments
to poor households.  Indelible Ink  The government can’t understand why the demonstration was
necessary as seven out of the movement’s eight demands have
already been addressed, Home Minister Hishammuddin Hussein said
in an e-mailed statement after the rally.  “The independent Election Commission has gone to
extraordinary lengths to ensure that the next elections are free
and fair and meet the highest international standards,” he said.
“Alongside electoral reforms, the government has implemented
the most significant package of political reforms since
 Malaysia ’s independence, including the repeal of outdated
security laws, new measures to enhance media freedoms and
changes to allow greater student participation in politics.”  Indelible ink has been introduced to stop people voting
twice, the electoral roll has been “thoroughly scrutinized”
and the election campaign period extended to a minimum 10 days,
the minister said.  Approval Rating  Bersih, whose name means “clean” in the Malay language,
is demanding that Election Commission officials resign after so
far implementing just one of its demands, the use of indelible
ink, in time for the next vote, Ambiga said April 24. The group
also wants it to introduce absentee ballots, a minimum 21-day
campaign period and more comprehensive review of the electoral
roll to remove dead people and duplicate voters.  Najib’s approval rating in peninsular Malaysia fell to a
two-year low of 59 percent a month after last year’s protests,
according to the  Merdeka Center for Opinion Research . It
increased to 69 percent in February after the government
announced it would give cash handouts of 500 ringgit ($164) to
households with monthly incomes of 3,000 ringgit or less, and
overhaul security laws. The margin of error was 3.07 percent.  In 2008, when eight days of campaigning preceded elections,
Najib’s National Front coalition won by the narrowest margin
since independence in 1957. A Bersih rally held three months
before that vote increased momentum for the opposition,
according to Joseph Chinyong Liow, associate dean of the S.
Rajaratnam School of International Studies in  Singapore .  ‘Heavy-Handed’  While barring street protests, Malaysia’s Peaceful Assembly
Act enacted this month still allows gatherings elsewhere if
organizers give police 10 days’ notice. The authorities said
they offered Bersih organizers the use of several stadiums
around Kuala Lumpur for their weekend protest, though Ambiga
claimed this came too late.  Police began cordoning off Kuala Lumpur’s Independence
Square on April 27 after getting a court order preventing people
from entering the area where Bersih planned a sit-in. Crowds
marched in groups toward the square from different parts of the
city, including the 88-floor Petronas Twin Towers, Southeast
Asia’s tallest building.  “Our monitoring teams reported witnessing the use of an
array of heavy-handed tactics by the police, including the
indiscriminate discharging of multiple rounds of tear gas
without any obvious provocation, and arbitrary use of water
cannons,” Christopher Leong, Malaysian Bar Council vice
president, said in a statement. “The monitoring teams also
witnessed numerous acts of police brutality, such as assault of
arrested persons.”  By contrast, Home Minister Hishammuddin said police acted
with “professionalism” and “restraint under difficult
circumstances.”  Some 13 police officers were hospitalized, Ismail said. At
least 117 rally-goers were treated, according to cases reported
to Bersih, steering committee member Maria Chin Abdullah, said
in a text message to Bloomberg today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  