-- Netanyahu Considers Elections Amid Exemptions Dispute
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-04-29T16:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/netanyahu-may-call-elections-amid-military-service-dispute-1-.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said he may call early elections because of
disagreements with parties within his coalition over military
service exemptions for ultra-Orthodox Jews and Arabs.  Netanyahu told lawmakers from his Likud party that the
escalating disputes over military service may lead to elections
within months instead of in 2013 as scheduled, Culture Minister
Limor Livnat told  Israel  Radio. The friction comes as Netanyahu
faces mounting criticism over his posture toward Iran and
stalemate in peace efforts with the Palestinians.  “The prime minister said in a very clear manner that he
will not give in to extortion, and if various factions make
various demands, then we’ll have elections this year,” Livnat
said today.  Israel’s  Supreme Court  in February invalidated the so-
called Tal Law that has enabled more than 50,000 students a year
in ultra-Orthodox seminaries to avoid being drafted for military
service, which is obligatory for Israeli Jewish men and women.
Shas and United Torah Judaism, two religious parties in the
coalition, are demanding a restoration of deferrals. Foreign
Minister Avigdor Liberman, head of the Yisrael Beitenu party,
has led opposition to the deferrals and is demanding that Arab
citizens perform alternative non-military service.  Netanyahu has pledged to introduce a revamped measure to
ensure universal national service -- either in the military or
civilian alternatives.  Arab Enlistment  Netanyahu said his proposal will require that Israel’s Arab
citizens, who make up almost 20 percent of the population, will
have to perform national service. Although some members of the
Druze and Bedouin communities serve in the army, most Arab
citizens are exempt from the draft.  “The Tal Law will be replaced by a more egalitarian and
just law, and I will submit it,” Netanyahu told veterans today,
according to a statement e-mailed from his office.  Many Arab citizens object to Israel as a Jewish state and
complain that they face discrimination by the government.  Netanyahu and Defense Minister Ehud Barak yesterday
dismissed criticism of their  Iran  policy from Yuval Diskin,
former chief of Israel’s Shin-Bet internal security service.  Diskin said in an April 27 speech that Netanyahu and Barak
have exaggerated Israel’s ability to mount a military attack on
Iran that could stop its nuclear program, suggesting that
“messianic feelings” have clouded their judgment.  Iran Concern  “I don’t have faith in the current leadership of Israel to
lead us to an event of this magnitude, of war with Iran,”
Diskin said in a speech, which was recorded on video and posted
on the Internet.  “I have observed them from up close,” he said. “I fear
very much that these are not the people I’d want at the wheel.”  Netanyahu has expressed skepticism that international
sanctions will stop Iran from enriching uranium and warned that
its leaders want to build nuclear weapons. President  Barack Obama  has said diplomacy must be given more time to work before
any military options are exercised. Iran says its nuclear
program is to produce electricity and is only for peaceful
purposes.  Diskin also faulted Netanyahu for failing to advance peace
talks with Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , saying
the Israeli prime minister “has no interest in negotiations.”  Netanyahu’s office issued a statement calling Diskin’s
speech “irresponsible,” and noting that he had been passed
over in 2010 when the prime minister appointed a new director of
the Mossad intelligence agency. A text message from Barak
labeled Diskin’s comments “petty” and said they derived from
his “personal frustration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  