-- News Corp. Faces Report From U.K. Lawmakers on Cover-Up
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-29T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/news-corp-faces-report-from-u-k-lawmakers-on-cover-up.html
Rupert Murdoch said last week he
was the victim of a cover-up over phone-hacking at one of his
U.K. tabloids. Lawmakers may say tomorrow how far up  News Corp. (NWSA) 
they believe the lies went.  The Culture Committee, a panel of 11 lawmakers, has been
working on their report since last July, when Murdoch and his
son James were summoned to testify about their roles in the
scandal. Both Murdochs in sworn testimony at a U.K. media-ethics
inquiry last week blamed underlings for their failure to detect
any wrongdoing at the now defunct News of the World newspaper.  With all its hearings and evidence already public, the
committee is unlikely to publish any material surprises. The
concern for News Corp. executives past and present is how
critical the report is of each of them. The Murdochs succeeded
last week in shifting scrutiny back to politicians, with an
adviser to Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  resigning for leaking
information about a proposed News Corp. deal to executives.  “In political terms, the committee’s work has been
somewhat overtaken by events, but the whole world is listening
to its conclusions,” said Claire Enders, founder and chief
executive officer of Enders Analysis, who advises clients
including the U.K. government. “Shareholders, people in the
business community and the U.S. Justice Department will all be
reading this very closely.”  U.K. telecommunications regulator Ofcom has said it will
draw upon the report for its decision as to whether News Corp.
is fit to hold a broadcasting license. Ofcom last week asked
News Corp. to provide documents from civil cases involving phone
hacking as it decides whether the matter has compromised the
company’s ability to run the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV broadcaster.  Blaming Underlings  The scandal, which peaked last July after the  Guardian
newspaper  reported that tabloid staff had intercepted the voice
mail of a dead schoolgirl, cost News Corp. its bid for the rest
of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and James Murdoch his
chairmanship of that company. He remains deputy chief operating
officer of New York-based News Corp. while his father, 81, is
chairman and CEO.  Both Murdochs pointed to the paper’s lawyer, Tom Crone, and
its editor,  Colin Myler , in their appearance last week at the
Leveson Inquiry. Myler and Crone told the committee last year
they’d informed James when they asked him to sign off on
payments to keep victims silent. If the committee clears father
and son of direct knowledge, it may still criticize them for
“willful blindness” or in James’s case, incompetence.  ‘Collective Amnesia’  The committee’s report, to be published tomorrow at 11:30
a.m. in London, will have more impact than its last
investigation into phone hacking at the News of the World
tabloid, published February 2010.  That document accused the paper’s executives of suffering
“collective amnesia” in evidence sessions the previous year,
and said it was “inconceivable” they hadn’t known what was
happening. The company dismissed it.  Rupert Murdoch  told the
committee last year this report had never drawn to his
attention.  That response is one of the areas of “deep regret” James
Murdoch admitted to in his two appearances before the committee
last year. The “pushback,” he said, “had been too strong.”  The pushback began in July 2009, when the Guardian reported
that phone-hacking had gone beyond that one reporter,  Clive Goodman , who had been jailed for it in 2007, and the small
number of victims named at his trial. It further reported that
victims were being paid hundreds of thousands of pounds to
settle cases quietly.  Defenses Disputed  The company denied more reporters had been involved. Myler
and Crone, summoned before the Culture Committee last September,
denied having misled it in 2009. Written evidence later sent to
the committee and to the Leveson Inquiry showed that both had
been told of exactly such claims. Two years later, when  James
Murdoch  accused them of keeping evidence from him, they replied
that they had both known about it and showed it to him.  Myler and Crone’s 2009 session denying widespread hacking
is likely to be criticized in tomorrow’s report. Crone, as the
lawyer who was working at the paper at the time hacking took
place, may face particular censure, as may Les Hinton, the
former CEO of Dow Jones & Co.  Some of the defenses offered by James Murdoch as to why he
didn’t identify wrongdoing sooner have already been disputed.
Parliament’s Home Affairs Committee said last year it was
“almost impossible to escape the conclusion” News Corp. “were
deliberately trying to thwart a criminal investigation.” That
hurt his line that the company had relied upon the police’s
probe stopping at a single reporter.  Brooks, Coulson  Likewise Harbottle & Lewis, a firm of lawyers employed by
News Corp. to review a selection of e-mails urging an employment
dispute, denied the company’s claim that they’d done a thorough
investigation into possible wrongdoing at the News of the World.  The committee may feel constrained in what it can say
about others who may face trial. Former News International chief
executive Rebekah Brooks and Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
former communications chief  Andy Coulson , both editors of the
paper when illegality was widespread, have been arrested and may
be charged. Both previously denied to the Culture Committee that
wrongdoing had gone beyond a single reporter.  The opposition  Labour Party ’s culture spokeswoman,  Harriet Harman , said yesterday that she believed Murdoch should lose his
status as a “fit and proper person” to hold a broadcasting
license in the U.K. and that News Corp. should thus be stripped
of its 39 percent stake in BSkyB.  “I think he’s not a fit and proper person because of what
went on in his organisation -- widespread criminality,” she
told BBC television’s “Sunday Politics” show.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at   hharris5@bloomberg.net  