-- Nigeria Seeks 4 Million-Barrel Per Day Crude Oil Capacity
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-04-29T14:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/nigeria-seeks-4-billion-barrel-crude-oil-capacity-minister-says.html
Nigeria  plans to increase oil
production capacity to 4 million barrels a day by 2020 and
expand its crude reserves to 40 billion barrels, Petroleum
Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said.  Africa’s largest oil producer also aims “in the years
ahead” to boost output of liquefied natural gas by an
additional 20 million metric tons a year from the current level
of 26 million tons, she said in a speech delivered at  Howard
University  in  Washington ,  Levi Ajuonuma , a ministry spokesman,
said in a statement e-mailed today and dated yesterday.  Nigeria pumped an average of 2.1 million barrels a day of
oil this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
country estimates its current crude reserves at 37 billion
barrels and its gas reserves at 187 trillion cubic feet,
Ajuonuma said. These figures correspond with data that BP Plc
compiled for the end of 2010.  “With expansion of capacity by almost 1 million barrels
per day over the next few years, Nigeria can significantly
contribute to global supply additions and diversification,
thereby alleviating the challenge of supply concentration around
the  Middle East ,” the minister said in her speech.  Attacks by militant groups in the southern Niger River
Delta cut the country’s crude output by more than 28 percent
between 2006 and 2009, according to data gathered by Bloomberg.
Disruptions eased after thousands of fighters, seeking a greater
share of oil revenue for the region’s inhabitants, laid down
their weapons and accepted an official amnesty.  Nigeria’s Movement for the Emancipation of the  Niger Delta 
refuses to disarm, saying the government hasn’t met the group’s
demands for local control of the delta’s oil. MEND threatened on
April 14 to mount strikes on all pipelines and energy
facilities. Authorities also blame Islamist group Boko Haram for
a surge of attacks since 2009 against government buildings and
security forces in the mostly Muslim north and Abuja, the
capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  