-- Obama Seeks to Draw Donors With Bill Clinton’s Popularity
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-04-30T16:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/obama-enlists-bill-clinton-to-draw-in-donations-for-re-election.html
Bill Clinton and  Barack Obama 
closed the book on their 2008 rivalry for the first in a series
of joint appearances by the 42nd and 44th U.S. presidents aimed
at filling Obama’s campaign treasury.  Four years ago, Clinton dismissed Obama’s presidential
candidacy a “fairy tale” while campaigning for his wife,
 Hillary Clinton , in the Democratic primaries. Last night, he
lauded Obama’s accomplishments in office, including rescuing the
economy from the worst recession since the 1930s, winning
passage of a landmark health-care law and bailing out General
Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC.  “If you go back 500 years, whenever a country’s financial
system collapses, it takes between five and 10 years to get back
to full employment,” Clinton told contributors who were
gathered at the McLean, Virginia, home of his political
strategist  Terry McAuliffe . “He’s beating the clock.”  The Obama campaign is seeking to entice more donors with
Clinton and to tap his fundraising network for both his campaign
committee and the independent political action committee, or
super-PAC, supporting the re-election effort.  Obama’s advisers are seeking to keep the president’s
fundraising advantage over presumptive Republican nominee  Mitt Romney , who’s benefitting from well-funded independent
committees. Clinton’s stature has risen since he left office,
with a poll last year by the Pew Research Center in  Washington 
showing 67 percent of Americans view him favorably.  Reminder on Economy  Obama sought to remind his supporters at yesterday’s event,
which raised about $2 million, of the U.S. economic success
under the nation’s last Democratic president.  “I ran for president because we had lost our way since
 Bill Clinton  was in office,” Obama said, praising his
predecessor who presided over an economy that added 22.7 million
jobs during his two terms and a federal budget that went from
deficit to surplus.  Clinton echoed Obama’s campaign message that Republicans
would return to policies that led to the financial crisis.  “He’s got an opponent who basically wants to do what they
did before, on steroids,” Clinton said, referring to Romney.
“The result you’ll get is the same, on steroids.”  Both men defended the 2010 health-care law that was one of
Obama’s signature policy victories. The law is being challenged
in the  Supreme Court  with a decision due in late June, less than
five months before the presidential election.  Obama called the law which Romney has vowed to repeal if
elected, “the single most important thing we can do to liberate
our businesses, to make sure our workers are getting wages, and
to free ourselves from crippling debt.”  Cash Advantage  While Obama had a 10-to-1 campaign cash advantage over
Romney at the start of this month, that ratio drops to almost
two-to-one when the Republican super-PACs are added to Romney’s
arsenal, according to campaign finance reports.  At the end of March, the Obama campaign committee, the main
super-PAC that supports him, and the  Democratic National
Committee  had $133.6 million in cash compared to $73.6 million
held by Romney, his main support super-PACs, and the  Republican
National Committee , the disclosure records show.  Tickets for yesterday’s dinner for 80 people were $20,000
per person. The reception, for about 500 people, required a
$1,000 donation, according to a campaign official who wasn’t
authorized to discuss the events on the record.  Bill and Hillary Clinton’s network of political donors have
been holding off on multi-million dollar contributions to his
super-PACs until they see the core group of Chicagoans who
backed the president four years ago start donating more.  Through March, only 12 of Obama’s 532 top fundraisers had
donated to Priorities USA Action, the super-PAC created to
support his re-election. Priorities has raised only about $9
million compared with a combined $80 million brought in by the
two main super-PACs dedicated to defeating Obama: American
Crossroads, formed by  Karl Rove , and Restore Our Future, a group
backing Romney.  The President will hold his first official campaign rallies
in Columbus, Ohio and Richmond,  Virginia , both in battleground
states, on May 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  