-- Obama Jokes About Romney, Second Term
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-04-29T05:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/obama-dinner-jokes.html
President  Barack Obama  unveiled his
“secret agenda” for a second term last night, vowing to “win
the war on Christmas” and replace the former ban on gays
serving openly in the military with a policy called “It’s
Raining Men.”  Then the mock agenda was abruptly cut short.  “I had a lot more material prepared, but I have to get the
Secret Service home in time for their new curfew,” Obama
deadpanned at the annual White House Correspondents’ Association
Dinner.  The tuxedo-clad president, facing re-election this year,
also went into campaign mode, taking aim at his likely
Republican opponent in November, former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney.  Noting they both have degrees from  Harvard University ,
Obama said, “I have one, he has two. What a snob.”  Turning toward former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , who has
said he will announce his withdrawal from the Republican
presidential primary race this week, Obama said, “Newt, there’s
still time, man.”  Late-night comic Jimmy Kimmel, the celebrity keynote
speaker of the night and host of ABC’s “Jimmy Kimmel Live,”
returned some of the political fire on Obama.  “Remember when the country rallied around you in hopes of
a better tomorrow?” Kimmel asked the president. “That was
hilarious.”  Warning Obama that he might not approve of some of his
jokes, Kimmel instructed: “Cover your ears, if that’s
physically possible.”  Media Circus  The annual black-tie dinner is a Washington tradition
dating to 1920. What was once a more modest, low-key affair for
White House reporters and administration officials morphed
decades ago into a televised media circus.  Hollywood celebrities now routinely flock to the event at
the invitation of media organizations.  Among the big names who showed up last night were  George Clooney ,  Steven Spielberg , Charlize Theron, Zooey Deschanel,
 Diane Keaton ,  Claire Danes , and Uggie, the dog from the Oscar-
winning film “The Artist.”  Then there were the celebrities who are famous just for
being famous -- and often go by a single name. There was Lindsay
(Lohan). And there was Kim (Kardashian).  More than 2,000 of the elite from Washington and Hollywood
crammed into a ballroom of the Washington Hilton Hotel to dine
on Texas-rubbed petite filet with a Calvados sauce, along with
red curry jumbo shrimp.  Dessert featured a chocolate truffle mousse layered with
chocolate genoise and almond macaroon.  A-Listers  Washington A-listers included former Secretary of State
 Colin Powell , Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  and -- fresh off the presidential campaign
trail-- former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum .  “I guess it just wasn’t Rick’s year,” Kimmel said.
“Rick’s year was 1954. It’s one thing to oppose gay marriage.
It’s another thing to do it in a sweater vest.”  Obama was at times self-deprecating, at times a jokester,
and at times a savvy campaigner.  “Some have said I blame too many problems on my
predecessor,” Obama said. “But let’s not forget that’s a
practice that was initiated by  George W. Bush .”  Last year’s dinner occurred on the eve of what is arguably
one of Obama’s biggest accomplishments: the killing of former
al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. Obama took note of the one-year
anniversary, albeit with humor.  Delivered Justice  “Last year at this time, we finally delivered justice to
one of the world’s most notorious individuals,” Obama said, as
a photo of business tycoon  Donald Trump  appeared on a jumbo
screen. Obama had mocked Trump at last year’s dinner.  In a friendly jab at former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin,
the Republican vice-presidential nominee in 2008, Obama rewrote
her now-famous joke from the 2008 Republican convention.  “What’s the difference between a hockey mom and a pit
bull?” Obama asked the crowd. “A pit bull is delicious.”  The bipartisan gathering has long been a night of good
humor and gentle ribbing among all of  Washington ’s power brokers,
and Kimmel gave equal time in his monologue to mocking
Republicans and Democrats.  He said Texas Representative  Ron Paul , who is still a
Republican presidential hopeful, looks like “the guy who gets
unhooded at the end of every Scooby Doo episode.”  Welcoming Gingrich to the dinner, Kimmel said, “I guess
the checks cleared,” in an apparent reference to the Georgia
Republican’s mounting campaign debt.  Dog-Star  Kimmel praised Uggie, the dog-star of “The Artist,” for
being able to roll over on command. “He’s a Democrat,” Kimmel
said.  Still, he saved much of his ammunition for Obama, who
laughed and smiled through most of the routine.  “President Obama wants everyone to have health care,
whether they want it or not,” Kimmel said. “I think I figured
it out. You’re not from  Kenya . It’s even worse: You’re from
 Canada .”  Proceeds from the dinner go toward scholarships for
aspiring journalists and awards for prize-winning reporting.  The first president to attend the dinner was  Calvin Coolidge , in 1924.  Until 1962, the dinner was open only to men. Women were not
permitted until former White House reporter Helen Thomas
protested the policy and former President John Kennedy refused
to attend the dinner unless the ban on women was lifted,
according to the White House Correspondents Association’s
website.  Observing a ballroom filled with politicians, journalists
and Hollywood celebrities, Kimmel told the crowd, “Everything
that is wrong with America is here tonight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  