-- Obama 'Diminishing the Presidency,' Speaker Boehner Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-04-29T16:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/obama-diminishing-the-presidency-speaker-boehner-says.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner 
said President Barack Obama is “diminishing the presidency by
picking fake fights” as he seeks re-election.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, cited as examples the
Democratic president’s recent campaign to freeze  interest rates 
on  student loans , to set a minimum tax on income more than $1
million, and to curb manipulation in the oil markets.  “The point I’ve been trying to make here in the last
couple of weeks is that the president’s bigger than this,”
Boehner said in an interview on CNN’s “State of the Union”
program. “America has big challenges; big fiscal challenges and
we’ve got big challenges for our economy.  And the president
ought to be working with Democrats and Republicans on  Capitol
Hill  to address the big issues that affect the American
people.”  Obama led presumptive Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney by seven percentage points among registered voters in a
Gallup poll conducted April 21-26. When asked who they would
vote for if the election were held now, 50 percent of
respondents said Obama and 43 percent said Romney, who secured
his hold on the Republican nomination this week when former
Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s campaign said he would withdraw from the
race.  Boehner called Romney ‘a very likable person,” saying he
wasn’t troubled that the former Massachusetts governor -- unlike
himself -- comes from a privileged background. Romney’s father,
 George Romney , was governor of Michigan and chairman of American
Motors Corp.  No Loser  “The American people don’t want to vote for a loser,”
Boehner said. “ Mitt Romney  has an opportunity to show the
American people that they, too, can succeed.”  Romney helped form the private equity firm Bain Capital LLC
in Boston. Boehner grew up mopping floors and waiting tables in
his father’s bar and worked several jobs, including as a
janitor, to pay his way through college.  Boehner said Romney’s vice presidential candidate would be
a “personal choice.” He mentioned Florida Senator Marco Rubio,
Ohio Senator  Rob Portman  and Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels as
potential picks that would have “the number one quality”
needed in a vice president, which he described as the capability
to be “president in the case of an emergency.”  Rubio, whose parents are Cuban immigrants, might help
Romney woo Hispanic voters, a demographic that supported Obama
in 2008. Obama leads among Hispanics, according to a Quinnipiac
University national poll conducted April 11-17, in which that 64
percent of Hispanic respondents said they support the president
compared with 24 percent for Romney.  Won’t Alter Outcome  Former Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  said on CBS’s
“Face the Nation” that Romney’s vice presidential pick
probably wouldn’t alter the outcome of the race.  “The idea that you’re going to reshuffle the deck would be
unusual in American history,” Barbour said.  To boost the president’s re-election prospects, Obama’s
campaign has been courting women voters, with whom Obama already
has an edge.  Former Republican National Committee Chairman  Ed Gillespie 
said today that women’s concerns about the economy will swamp
Obama’s efforts to reach out to them.  “The  U.S. economy  is a hostile workplace for women under
President Obama because it’s harder to get a job,” Gillespie
said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “So we look forward
to the debate.”  “It’s still the economy, and women aren’t stupid,”
Gillespie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 