-- Tottenham Moves to Fourth by Beating Blackburn as Chelsea Wins
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-04-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/torres-scores-three-goals-as-chelsea-beats-qpr-6-1-in-league.html
Tottenham beat Blackburn 2-0 to
move into fourth place in English soccer’s Premier League above
Newcastle and Chelsea, which routed Queens Park Rangers 6-1.  Rafael Van der Vaart poked in a rebound in front of goal in
the 22nd minute and  Kyle Walker  curled in a free kick in the
75th minute to seal Tottenham’s victory yesterday. Blackburn,
which is in the relegation zone, failed to get a shot on goal.  Tottenham and Newcastle have 62 points, with Spurs ahead on
goal difference. Arsenal, which drew 1-1 at Stoke two days ago,
is in third place with 66 points and has played one more game
than Tottenham, Newcastle and Chelsea, which has 61 points in
sixth place.  “It’s gonna be close,” Tottenham coach  Harry Redknapp 
said of the race to finish in the top four. “We’ll see how we
go. If we win the games no one can finish above us, that’s the
top and bottom of it.”  Fourth place in the Premier League would normally guarantee
a playoff-round berth for next season’s  Champions League , though
Chelsea could claim that spot if it wins  Europe ’s elite club
competition next month and finishes outside the top four.  League leader Manchester United visits Manchester City
tonight in a match that could decide the title. Defending
champion United has a three-point lead with 83 points, while
City has a better goal difference.  Torres Scores  At Stamford Bridge yesterday,  Fernando Torres  scored three
goals as Chelsea boosted its chances of Champions League soccer
next season and deepened QPR’s relegation concerns.  Daniel Sturridge  gave Chelsea a first-minute lead with a
right-foot shot from outside the penalty area. Blues captain
 John Terry  made it 2-0 in the 13th minute, heading in from a
corner.  Torres, who’d previously scored only eight goals this
season, got the third in the 19th minute before making it 4-0
soon afterwards following a defensive mix-up.  Juan Mata ’s pass
set up his third score, and his first hat trick for Chelsea, in
the 64th minute.  On a rainswept, soggy playing surface, Florent Malouda
slammed the ball in from close range for the Blues’ sixth goal
10 minutes from the end before  Djibril Cisse  scored a
consolation for the visiting team.  Struggle for Fourth  Chelsea’s victory came five days after it advanced to the
Champions League final against  Bayern Munich  with a 3-2
aggregate win over  Barcelona . The Blues need to concentrate on
their Premier League performance, Torres said.  “We need to finish in the top four,” Torres, a 50
million-pound ($81 million) signing from Liverpool, told  Sky
Sports . “To be honest I feel I’m not playing as well as before
but I’m scoring goals and that’s the more important thing for a
striker.”  QPR, battling to stay in the top division after promotion
last year, has won only three away games and yesterday’s rout
damages the west London team’s goal difference.  The league scrapped the pre-match handshake between the
teams amid legal concerns over the situation between Terry and
QPR’s Anton Ferdinand.  Terry was charged with a racially aggravated public order
offense for alleged comments in a QPR-Chelsea game last October.
He denies wrongdoing. The Football Association also canceled the
handshake before an F.A. Cup game between the teams in January.  As well as the Champions League final, the Blues are in the
domestic F.A. Cup final, playing Liverpool on May 5.  Other Matches  In the Premier League two days ago, Everton beat Fulham 4-
0, Wigan defeated Newcastle by the same score, and Liverpool won
3-0 at Norwich. Arsenal drew 1-1 at Stoke and the scores also
finished level between Sunderland and Bolton (2-2), Swansea and
Wolves (4-4), and West Brom and  Aston Villa  (0-0).  At the bottom of the standings, already relegated Wolves
are last with 24 points, behind Blackburn (31), Bolton and QPR
(34) and Wigan and Aston Villa (37).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  