-- Philippines’ Monitoring Inflows to Central Bank, Tetangco Says
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-04-29T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/philippines-monitoring-inflows-to-central-bank-tetangco-says.html
The Philippine central bank is
prepared to take measures against speculation, such as carry
trades, involving its short-term deposits that pay more than
longer-dated government debt, Governor Amando Tetangco said.  The central bank’s two-week and one-month special deposit
accounts, or SDAs, “offer yields that would likely be
attractive to offshore investors,” Tetangco said April 28.
“For this reason, the Monetary Board continues to be vigilant
that the SDA does not become the target of any carry trade.”  The  Philippines ’ benchmark  overnight borrowing  rate at 4
percent, while at a record low after two reductions this year,
is higher than Thailand and  Malaysia , making it attractive to
investors looking for higher yields as the U.S. Federal Reserve
pledged to keep borrowing costs “exceptionally low” at least
through late 2014. Second-round inflation may prompt the
Philippines to adjust  monetary policy , Tetangco said.  Capital inflows complicate monetary policy as central
bankers engage in a “tight balancing act” to spur growth and
contain inflation, the governor said on April 27. “While
inflows are likely to continue, external developments can change
this trend. So we want to make sure our policy toolkit remains
appropriate,” he said.  In a carry trade, an investor makes money by borrowing in a
country with low  interest rates , converting the money to a
currency where interest rates are higher and lending the amount
at that higher rate.  Bank Rates  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas’ one-month SDA pays a rate of
4.1875 percent while the nation’s three-month Treasury bill
yield averaged 2.494 percent earlier this month. The special
accounts, not open to overseas investors, were expanded in May
2007 to accept funds from banks’ trust units and state-owned
pension funds after  money-supply growth  peaked at 28 percent a
month before.  The central bank will monitor developments in the special
accounts “especially transactions of financial institutions by
which their structure have access to foreign funding,” Tetangco
said in a mobile phone message two days ago, adding to comments
in a speech delivered by Assistant Governor Ramona Santiago
before members of ACI Philippines, a group of bank treasurers
and traders. “This may require tweaking our regulatory
framework,” he said in his phone text message.  Second Round Effects  While inflation remains manageable, the balance of risks
has “somewhat tilted to the upside,” Tetangco said. “Should
volatilities in  oil prices  persist, these may translate to
second round effects. Monetary policy doesn’t respond to supply
shocks, but once these become transformed into second round
effects, the BSP may have to make appropriate adjustments to
monetary policy.”  Bangko Sentral paused this month after two successive rate
reductions even after  inflation  slowed to a 30-month low of 2.6
percent in March. Exports climbed for a second month and beat
estimates in February, the government said this month.  Consumer prices probably rose 2.1 percent to 3 percent this
month, Tetangco said on April 27, as peso gains may have
tempered higher utility costs and transport fares.  “There is scope for the central bank to keep the rate at 4
percent for the rest of the year,”  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-
based regional economist at  Barclays Capital , said during the
ACI conference in Boracay island in central Philippines.  The Philippine monetary authority is also “not too
comfortable with too much peso appreciation,” Sofat said.  The peso completed a sixth week of gains to 42.368 per
dollar on April 27, according to Tullett Prebon Plc., helped by
foreign-currency inflows.  Asian nations should prepare to “shift gears” and tighten
monetary policy as their economies strengthen and inflation
pressures rise, the  International Monetary Fund  said in an April
27 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  