-- Rand Paul Seeks to Block Tax Treaty Change on Swiss Accounts
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-30T14:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/rand-paul-seeks-to-block-tax-treaty-change-on-swiss-accounts.html
Senator  Rand Paul  is blocking an
amendment to a U.S.-Swiss  tax treaty , slowing Switzerland’s
handover of data on thousands of Americans with bank accounts
hidden from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  The protocol, negotiated in September 2009, would amend a
1996 treaty and make it more difficult for Switzerland to refuse
requests from the IRS for tax information about U.S. customers
of Swiss banks. The U.S. is cracking down on secret accounts
held by its citizens at  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN) , Wegelin & Co.
and other financial institutions.  Paul, a Kentucky Republican, said the protocol is too
“sweeping” and would threaten protections under the  Fourth
Amendment  to the U.S. Constitution, which guards against
unreasonable search and seizure. Paul said he is exercising his
privilege to delay a Senate vote.  “We’re concerned about the due process of whether or not
people have any kind of process before their records are looked
at, the privacy of your banking records,” Paul said in an
interview last week. “There needs to be some constitutional
protections to your banking records.”  President  Barack Obama  sent the protocol to the Senate in
January 2011, and the Foreign Relations Committee approved it
July 26. Paul, a critic of the IRS who won his seat in 2010 with
the backing of the Tea Party movement, could require Democrats
who control the Senate to spend a week of floor time before
voting to ratify the protocol, which requires assent by two-
thirds of the senators. He said his office discussed changes
with the Swiss ambassador.  No Easy Out  “The hard part about finding a compromise is it’s a treaty
and I don’t know that they’re willing to rewrite the treaty for
me,” Paul said. “But I don’t know any easy way out of the
situation.”  Under the current treaty, the Swiss can grant a U.S.
request seeking data on a taxpayer suspected of “ tax fraud  and
the like,” which involves acts such as using false documents or
third parties to disguise account ownership. The Swiss won’t
hand over data if taxpayers are suspected of evasion, a view
upheld April 5 by the Swiss Federal Administrative Court.  The new U.S.-Swiss protocol includes language that would
prevent Swiss officials from denying an information request on
the grounds that it would violate domestic bank-secrecy laws.
The protocol would allow the U.S. to request account data
without specifying taxpayers by name.  Swiss Ratification  While Switzerland’s lawmakers approved amending the treaty,
the country’s federal government won’t ratify the protocol until
both countries agree on a solution that ends negotiations on the
investigation of Swiss banks, Finance Minister Eveline Widmer- Schlumpf said before a vote in the Swiss parliament on March 5.  Switzerland will grant administrative assistance, including
for group requests, in cases where the U.S. tax authorities
produce clear evidence of a suspected offense by a bank and can
detail a “pattern of behavior,” according to the amendment.  Philip West, a former international tax counsel at the U.S.
Treasury Department during President  Bill Clinton ’s
administration, said Paul’s move to block the treaty amendment
is “impairing” the U.S. crackdown on offshore  tax evasion .  “It’s wrongheaded, it’s inappropriate,” said West, a
partner at Steptoe & Johnson LLP in  Washington . “Whether this
is the senator’s motive or not, it smacks of protecting
financial secrecy for those who may have committed criminal tax
fraud in the U.S.”  ‘Misconstrues the Nature’  Paul, he said, “misconstrues the nature of what’s going on
in that treaty and the right of the tax inspector to review the
books and records of persons who might be subject to taxation.”
West said the constitutional right of the agency to review such
records “has never been questioned” by U.S. courts.  Senator  John Kerry , chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee, said failure to ratify the protocol hurts the U.S.
overseas.  “The consequences are that we are losing credibility
globally, in terms of our accountability,” said Kerry, a
Massachusetts Democrat.  Nathan Hochman, a former assistant attorney general who
oversaw the  Justice Department ’s tax division, said he
“applauds” Paul’s concern for taxpayers’ privacy.  “Too often in the pursuit of these records, the account
holders’ privacy is not fully considered in figuring out
processes to obtain these records for government
investigations,” said Hochman, who was appointed by President
 George W. Bush  and is now a partner at Bingham McCutchen LLP in
 Santa Monica ,  California .  ‘Enough Horsepower’  The current treaty, he said, lets the U.S. pursue records
through mutual legal assistance treaties and tax information
exchange agreements. They “provide the government with more
than enough horsepower to obtain the records they are seeking,”
Hochman said.  The IRS wants to “make it easier for sweeping looks at
records, and I’m always a little bit worried about sweeping,
sifting through millions of records looking for things,” Paul
said. “If you’re accused of a crime, someone ought to have some
evidence before they go sifting through your records.”  Tax attorney William Sharp, who represents clients with
foreign accounts, said Paul’s objections to the protocol will
hurt the U.S. enforcement of tax law.  “We’re losing global credibility by mandating treaty
concessions, obtaining those concessions, and then not approving
them for almost three years,” said Sharp of  Sharp Kemm PA  of
Tampa, Florida. “What Senator Paul and others don’t recognize
is that the use of bank secrecy puts the IRS at a special
disadvantage. When you go offshore, you’re off the radar.”  Offshore Wealth Center  Switzerland , the world’s biggest center for offshore
wealth, is trying to change its image as a haven for undeclared
assets following a crackdown on tax evasion by U.S. authorities.  The Justice Department and IRS have sought the treaty
change as they have conducted criminal probes of 11 Swiss
financial institutions. The U.S. crackdown on offshore tax
evasion picked up in 2009, when prosecutors charged UBS, the
largest Swiss bank, with aiding tax evasion by U.S. clients.  UBS avoided prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting
it fostered tax evasion, and giving the IRS data on more than
250 accounts. It later turned over data on another 4,450
accounts.  Prosecutors have since filed criminal charges against at
least 21 foreign bankers, advisers and attorneys and about 50
U.S. taxpayers. The clients’ banks included UBS; Zurich-based
Credit Suisse, the second-largest Swiss bank; and London-based
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest bank, prosecutors said.  Target of Probe  On July 15, Credit Suisse said it was a target of a
criminal probe over former cross-border private-banking services
for U.S. customers. Six days later, seven current and former
Credit Suisse bankers were indicted on a charge of conspiring to
help U.S. clients evade taxes through secret accounts.  Prosecutors also secured an indictment on Feb. 2 against
Wegelin & Co., the 270-year-old private bank that was the first
Swiss lender to be criminally charged.  The IRS said 33,000 U.S. taxpayers with offshore accounts
have avoided prosecution since 2009 by entering a limited
amnesty program, paying back taxes and identifying those who
helped them hide their accounts from authorities. Hundreds of
taxpayers in the program gave prosecutors information that has
helped build criminal cases against bankers and advisers.  HSBC’s Swiss private bank has provided lists of employees
to assist the U.S. with investigations into tax evasion, a
Geneva-based spokesman for the firm said yesterday.  Tax Compliance Act  The debate over the Swiss protocol comes as the
administration seeks to implement the Foreign Account Tax
Compliance Act, or FATCA. Congress passed the measure as part of
a jobs package in 2010. It is estimated to generate $8.7 billion
over 10 years, according to the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation.  FATCA bypasses other governments and applies to non-U.S.
banks. The banks must report the identities of their U.S.
customers to the IRS and withhold money from the accounts of
customers who don’t provide enough information.  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment on Paul’s opposition to the protocol. Dean Patterson, an
IRS spokesman, and Sabrina Siddiqui, a Treasury spokeswoman,
declined to immediately comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at   jschneider50@bloomberg.net  