-- Real Madrid Moves Closer to Spanish Title With Win; PSG Loses
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-04-30T00:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/real-madrid-beats-sevilla-3-0-to-move-closer-to-spanish-title.html
Real  Madrid  beat Sevilla 3-0 to
move to the brink of a record-extending 32nd Spanish league
soccer title. Paris Saint-Germain lost 2-1 at Lille in  France 
to drop five points behind leader Montpellier.  In Madrid yesterday,  Cristiano Ronaldo  opened the scoring
in the 19th minute and Karim Benzema added two more goals for
the home team early in the second half. Real now has 91 points,
a lead of seven over Barcelona, with three games left.  “It was an important win and the team deserves to be
champions as the players have shown their mentality and
character,” Real assistant coach Aitor Karanka said.  Real, which was ousted from  Europe ’s Champions League by
 Bayern Munich  last week, lifted its goal tally this season to a
league record 112.  Barcelona moved to 104 league goals for the season with a
7-0 rout of Rayo Vallecano.  Lionel Messi  and  Pedro Rodriguez 
each got two goals, while Seydou Keita and Thiago Alcantara
scored and Rober had an own goal as Barcelona rebounded from
losses to Real in the league and Chelsea in the Champions
League. Messi and Ronaldo each have 43 league goals this season.  Real, whose manager  Jose Mourinho  has previously won league
titles in Portugal, England and Italy, has finished second to
Barcelona for the past three seasons.  Third-place Valencia lost 1-0 to Malaga, with the pair even
on 55 points. Valencia retained third place on goal difference.  Three-Point Lead  In  Italy ’s Serie A, Juventus won 4-0 at Novara to maintain
its three-point lead over AC Milan, which won 4-1 at Siena.  A Mirko Vucinic double and goals from Marco Borriello
and Arturo Vidal helped put unbeaten Juventus, which has a
better head-to-head record against Milan, on 77 points with
three matches left.  Napoli, Udinese,  Inter Milan  and Lazio all have 55 points
and occupy positions 3-6 following the weekend’s results.  In France, 10-man PSG gave up two goals in eight minutes
yesterday to lose at Lille, which closed the gap to the Paris
club to two points with four matches remaining. Leader
Montpellier won 1-0 at Toulouse on April 27.  Nolan Roux’s introduction as a 69th-minute substitute
turned the match Lille’s way after Javier Pastore put PSG 1-0
up. Roux was fouled in the area by Mamadou Sakho, who was shown
the red card, and Eden Hazard converted the penalty kick in the
71st minute. Roux then got the winning goal from close range.  In the Netherlands, Ajax moved closer to a 31st league
title with a 2-1 victory at  FC Twente . The Amsterdam-based club
has a six-point lead with two games left in the season, and can
clinch the championship with another point.  In  Germany ,  Borussia Dortmund  won 5-2 at Kaiserslautern a
week after sealing the Bundesliga title. Second-placed Bayern
Munich beat Stuttgart 2-0 at home, while Schalke will compete in
the  Champions League  group stage next season after guaranteeing
third place with a 4-0 win against Hertha Berlin.  Porto secured its 26th Portuguese league championship
yesterday after second-place Benfica’s drew 2-2 at Rio Ave left
it six points clear with two games left. Porto is assured of the
title because of its better head-to-head record against Benfica. 