-- Record-High Gasoline Further Burdens Consumers in Europe
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-04-30T09:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/record-high-gasoline-further-burdens-consumers-in-europe.html
Mumtaz Ozkaya, a leather-clothing
salesman in  London , is slashing his usual 1,000 miles (1,609
kilometers) a month of driving by 30 percent and taking cheaper
vacations, as record fuel prices burden European motorists.  “Wages are still the same so I am cutting back on miles
and also on holidays,” Ozkaya said in an April 23 interview at
a Shell-branded service station near Old Street in the U.K.
capital, where regular gasoline costs 143 pence a liter ($8.76 a
gallon). “Whereas we used to go on holiday to a five-star hotel
for three weeks that is now a four-star for two weeks.”  The  average retail price  in the European Union’s 27 member
nations surged to a peak of 1.69 euros a liter ($8.44 a gallon)
on April 20 with  Germany ,  France , the U.K.,  Greece , Italy and
 Spain  all at records, according to European Commission data. The
cost of gasoline at the pump in the continent, more than double
U.S. levels, had made a fresh high every week since Jan. 13.
U.K. gasoline advanced to a new all-time high last week.  Policy makers are confronted with an oil-price increase
that threatens to curb consumers’ spending power at a time when
at least six of the 17 euro nations are in recession. The
continent, which is struggling to contain a sovereign-debt
crisis that has already forced Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to
seek bailouts, has fewer ways to combat scarcities after
shrinking profits and declining demand forced the closure of the
most European refineries in three decades.  Vicious Circle  “It’s a major negative for the growth story on top of so
many negatives right now in Europe,”  James Knightley , senior
economist at ING Groep NV, the largest Dutch financial-services
company, said by phone from London on April 24. “At a time when
household incomes are under immense pressure from wages being
frozen and rising unemployment, rising fuel costs mean consumers
are left with less and less money to spend on services.”  Weaker household spending delays investment by corporations
required for economic growth, creating a “nasty vicious
circle,” Knightley said.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on April
4 that euro-area inflation will stay above 2 percent this year,
with “upside risks” stemming from higher-than-expected  oil
prices . “We will pay particular attention to any signs of pass-
through from higher energy prices to wages, profits and general
price-setting,” he said.  Confidence Plunges  Italy ’s inflation rate was at a six-month high of 3.8
percent this month amid higher energy costs and tax increases
passed as part of Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s austerity
program, Rome-based national statistics office Istat said today
in a preliminary report.  Consumer confidence  in the country plunged this month to
the lowest since 1996 as Monti’s cost-cutting measures deepened
the recession that started in the fourth quarter. Rising crude
prices and the government’s increase of value-added taxes led to
a jump in gasoline costs that neared 2 euros ($2.65) a liter
last week, crimping demand. Business confidence declined to a
two-year low.  Gasoline prices rose 3.1 percent in April from the previous
month and 20.8 percent from a year earlier, the fastest pace
since the data series began in 1996, according to Istat.  A driver filling the 55-liter (14.5-gallon) tank of
Europe’s most popular car,  Volkswagen AG’s (VOW)  Golf hatchback, pays
92.40 euros, or $122.38, compared with $55.54 for the same
amount in the U.S.  Driving Less  With fuel prices rising, Europeans like Britain’s Ozkaya
are driving less. In Italy, March gasoline use decreased 9.5
percent from the previous year to 713,000 metric tons, while
diesel and gasoil demand dropped 8 percent, according to data
from the ministry of  Economic Development . French gasoline
consumption dropped 9.1 percent that month, from a year earlier,
the Union Francaise des Industries Petrolieres, an industry
group, said in an e-mailed statement April 16. In the U.K. last
year, gasoline demand dropped by about 6 percent to 16 billion
liters, according to the Retail Motor Industry Federation, while
diesel consumption remained stable at 18 billion liters.  “It is hitting household budgets hard,” Brian Madderson,
chairman of the federation’s petrol division, said in an April
20 phone interview from London. “Motorists are cutting back on
fuel expenditure where they possibly can.” The RMI represents
5,500 independent gas station operators in Britain, two-thirds
of the country’s total.  U.S. Election  In a U.S. presidential election year, gasoline has become
an issue for politicians and voters. The  nationwide average
retail price  climbed to $3.94 a gallon on April 4, the highest
in 11 months, and has since retreated to $3.82, according to
AAA. On April 17, President  Barack Obama  urged Congress to
bolster federal supervision of oil markets, including bigger
penalties for market manipulation and greater power for
regulators to increase the amount of money traders must put up
to back their energy bets.  Americans pay less because taxes are lower, accounting for
11 percent of the retail price, compared with 60 percent in
Britain, according to data from the U.S. Energy Department and
the AA, a U.K. motoring organization.  Fuel has become more expensive on both sides of the
Atlantic after international crude prices rose this year on
concern that Middle East oil shipments would be disrupted after
the U.S. and EU tightened sanctions against  Iran  over its
nuclear program. New York-traded wholesale gasoline futures
rallied 19 percent in the year through April 27, the second-
biggest gain in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24
commodities after soybeans. Wholesale gasoline in  northwest
Europe , traded on barges, advanced 18 percent this year.  Exchange Rate  Fluctuations in the dollar-euro exchange rate mean that
prices are more extreme in  Europe  than in the U.S. In euro
terms, the price of  Brent crude  rallied to an all-time high at
96.27 euros a barrel on March 13, versus the previous peak of
93.07 euros in July 2008. In dollar terms, Brent hasn’t yet
exceeded its 2008 record of $147.50.  Back at Old Street, filling his car with 70 pounds worth of
fuel, Ozkaya isn’t confident his holiday spending budget will
improve anytime soon. “Maybe next year it will be a three-
star” hotel, he said.  The following table shows retail fuel prices for six
European countries, and an average of 27 nations, in euros a
liter, as of April 27. The table also shows the year-to-date
gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net 
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  