-- Reigning NBA MVP Rose Out for Season With Torn Knee Ligament
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/reigning-nba-mvp-rose-out-for-season-with-torn-knee-ligament.html
Derrick Rose , the reigning Most
Valuable Player in the  National Basketball Association , ended
his season after tearing a knee ligament during the  Chicago
Bulls ’ playoff victory over the  Philadelphia 76ers .  Rose, 23, had scored 23 points when he jumped to a stop
after driving the lane and landed awkwardly with 70 seconds
remaining in the first playoff game at the United Center. The
team’s medical crew worked on him while he lay on the court in
pain.  “Chicago Bulls guard Derrick Rose tore his anterior
cruciate ligament (ACL) and he is out for the remainder of the
season,” the team said in a statement released after the game.  Rose, who averaged 21.8 points and 3.4 rebounds this season,
had been plagued with injuries. He missed 27 of the team’s 66
regular-season games.  “I was like, ‘oh, here we go again,’” said Bulls forward
Taj Gibson, who had seven points. “It’s been up and down all
year long. He was looking good, looking good in practice and he
had such a good game, defensively and offensively. It’s tough to
lose your leader.”  Rose, who needed only one rebound and one assist for a
triple-double, came back into the game with about eight minutes
remaining as the 76ers began to push back.  76ers Make Run  “I don’t work backward like you guys do,” Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau said, defending his decision to keep Rose in. “The
score was going the other way.”  Guard Richard Hamilton, who had 19 points, said the Bulls
needed to keep the 76ers from advancing too far.  “Philly was making a run,” Hamilton said. “In playoff
basketball, you never want to give a team confidence. When you
have a team down, you have to try to keep them down. They made a
little run so we needed guys that could put the ball in the
basket.”  The Bulls, the top seed in the Eastern Conference, never
trailed after taking a 4-3 lead.  Luol Deng  scored 17 and Joakim Noah had 12 points and 13 rebounds.  Elton Brand scored 19 points to lead eighth-seeded
Philadelphia.  Chicago hosts Game 2 in the best-of-seven, first-round
series on May 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  