-- South Korea Production Gains Slow as Europe Damps Exports
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-04-30T01:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/s-korea-s-march-output-growth-slows-as-europe-damps-exports.html
South Korea ’s  industrial production 
rose at a slower pace last month as the European debt crisis
damped exports and domestic demand weakened.  Output gained 0.3 percent from a year earlier after rising
a revised 14.3 percent in February, Statistics  Korea  said today.
The median estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 2.2 percent increase. Production fell 3.1 percent from
February when it gained a revised 0.6 percent.  South Korea’s economy expanded the most in a year last
quarter, driven by  government spending  and investment by
semiconductor chipmakers. Even so, the central bank lowered its
full-year growth forecast on April 16 and Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan warned last week of downside risks to growth from
Europe’s debt crisis and elevated  oil prices .  “Today’s data raises a question about the strength of the
recovery momentum, with exports falling and domestic demand
staying weak,” said  Park Sang Hyun , chief economist at HI
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “The second half will be
much better but it largely hinges on  China  and other big
economies.”  Some semiconductor chip producers and other technology
companies cut inventories last month, probably ahead of the
release of new products, which may bode well for production in
coming months, Choi Sang Mok, director-general at the  finance
ministry , told reporters in Gwacheon today.  Path to Recovery  “The economy is on a recovery path but external
uncertainties persist so it’s premature to see a full-speed
recovery yet,” Choi said.  South Korea should increase  interest rates  once economic
uncertainty clears and allow its currency to appreciate to
counter inflationary pressures, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said last week.  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,132.55 per dollar in Seoul as
of 10:05 a.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Kospi Index gained 0.4 percent.  South Korea’s index of leading economic indicators rose 0.4
percent in March from February, compared with a 1 percent gain
in February, today’s report showed. Sales of  consumer goods 
dropped 2.7 percent from February and were unchanged from a year
earlier.  Trade Report  Overseas shipments probably fell 1.1 percent in April from
a year ago, according to the median estimate of 13 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey ahead of a separate government release
tomorrow.  South Korea’s  gross domestic product  rose 0.9 percent in
the first quarter from the previous three months, the fastest
pace in a year, according to a central bank report last week.
The Bank of Korea reduced its forecast for this year to 3.5
percent from 3.7 percent on April 16.  “Household consumption remains weak and needs to pick up
for growth to be sustained, especially as public spending eases
in the second half of the year,” Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a report before today’s
release.  Man forecasts that the Bank of Korea will hold its
benchmark rate at 3.25 percent to support growth, with an
increase coming only in the fourth quarter. Borrowing costs
haven’t changed since June 2011, when policy makers raised them
by a quarter percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  