-- Sarkozy Win Rests With Anti-Europe Voters in Towns Like Le Hamel
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-29T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/sarkozy-win-rests-with-anti-europe-voters-in-towns-like-le-hamel.html
The northern French village of Le
Hamel sits amid farmland in the rolling hills of Picardy, its
brick-and-timber houses clustered around a duck pond and a 16th-
century church, far from  France ’s so-called urban ghettos.  About half the village’s 119 votes cast in the 10-candidate
first round of France’s presidential election on April 22 went
to Marine Le Pen of the National Front, the anti-immigrant party
that tapped into the Europe-fatigue of parts of rural France.  “The farmers are sick of the European Union telling them
what they can and can’t do, the hunters want to be left alone by
the ecologists, everyone is angered by rural post offices and
bus routes closing,” said Le Hamel Mayor Jean-Jacques Adoux, a
truck driver who says he can’t compete with Eastern Europeans
who work for a quarter of his wages.  Voters like Adoux, lured by Le Pen’s anti-Europe rhetoric,
catapulted her to the third place nationally in the first round
with a record 17.9 percent of the vote. Now, her supporters’
votes will determine whether President  Nicolas Sarkozy  is re-
elected when he squares off on May 6 with Francois Hollande.  Socialist lawmaker Hollande, who got the top score in the 
first round, has consistently led in the polls for the decisive 
second round. He would get 55 percent of the vote to 45 percent 
for Sarkozy, according to a Harris Interactive poll.  “Sarkozy needs at least 70 percent of Le Pen’s votes but
without alienating the center,” said Esteban Pratviel, head of
studies at the opinion department of polling company Ifop.
“It’s not likely he’ll manage.”  ‘Siamese Twins’  Le Pen, who got more votes than her father Jean-Marie in
2002 when he made it to the second round, has refused to endorse
Sarkozy or Hollande, saying they’re “Siamese twins.” She
accuses them of being part of the same establishment and blames
them for pushing the European Union constitution through
parliament after the French rejected it in a referendum.  She has indicated that she will call on her supporters to
abstain when she holds a meeting tomorrow.  Not all her supporters will follow her advice. Sarkozy
might get about 48 percent of her first-round voters, Hollande
21 percent, while the remaining 31 percent have yet to decide or
will abstain, according to a Harris Interactive poll April 27.
By contrast, Hollande can count on 92 percent of the supporters
of communist-backed Jean-Luc Melenchon, who took 11.1 percent in
the first round.  In the last presidential election, Sarkozy got between 60
and 65 percent of Jean-Marie Le Pen’s voters in the second
round, according to a June 2007 study by Cevipof, a political
studies institute.  ‘Not Honest’  Even before the first-round vote, Sarkozy flirted with
National Front themes in his campaign. He threatened to withdraw
France from  Europe ’s Schengen treaty, which eliminates passport
controls at borders, if sterner steps aren’t taken to prevent
illegal immigration.  He stepped up the effort after the first round, saying “we
have to listen to this cry and provide concrete responses.” He
promised a new right of a presumption of self-defense for police
involved in the killing of suspects after a case last week in
Paris, a Le Pen campaign pledge, and criticized the EU for not
enshrining the continent’s Christian roots in its constitution.  Not everyone is buying it, if the four National Front
volunteers sitting around a table in Compiegne, a Picard city of
45,000 about 85 kilometers (50 miles) north of Paris, are any
indication.  “He made so many promises to us in 2007 that he hasn’t
delivered on, about security, immigration, jobs,” said Emmanuel
Fauvergue, a 48-year-old dental implant maker. “He spat on us
for five years, and now suddenly it’s Operation Seduction. It’s
not honest.”  Marine  Some National Front voters may even opt for Hollande, said
his friend Bruno Zelisko, a 28-year-old accountant.  “Front voters have many values that are considered to be
on the right, but they also share many values with the left: a
strong welfare system and a belief in keeping public services
such as the post office and transport,” he said.  Le Pen, who tapped into this feeling of abandonment,
inherited the National Front founded by her father Jean-Marie,
now 83, whose main issue was restricting Muslim immigration to
France. He was convicted at least six times for anti-Arab or
anti-Jewish statements.  Marine, 43, kept her father’s opposition to immigration,
dropping the racist comments. She added economic proposals
including quitting the euro, protecting French industry,
freezing some utility prices and replacing taxes on gas at the
pump with levies on  oil companies .  Concrete Proposals  “She’s a different generation and has added positions that
are coherent with the French Republic: pensions, public service,
secularism, Europe,” said  Laurent Dubois , a professor at Paris-
based Institute of Political Studies. “Some of what she says is
pure fantasy, but much is anchored in genuine issues.”  Picardy, which voted 25 percent for Le Pen, the highest
score of France’s 20 regions, was ripe for her message because
Europe’s economic crisis left its cities with shuttered
factories and its rural areas suffer from reduced public service
and the high cost of gasoline, Dubois said.  Its  unemployment rate  is 11.3 percent compared with 9.4
percent for mainland France.  “The price of gas is a major issue for everyone in the
country,” Le Hamel’s mayor Adoux said. “At least Marine has
concrete proposals on what to do about it.”  Abbeville, a Picard town of 25,000, which voted 23 percent
for Le Pen, lived through the closing of a 136-year-old sugar
factory in 2009, with the loss of 74 jobs.  Latest Appeal  “This area has been ravaged by factory closings,” says
Christian Mandosse, a 52-year-old antiques dealer who runs the
Front’s website in town. “People here feel scorned by both
Sarkozy and the Socialists. They are part of the same elite.”  In his latest appeal to National Front’s voters, Sarkozy
said in a speech on April 27 that abstentions will result in the
election of Hollande and encourage immigration.  France accepts about 200,000 immigrants a year, about 0.3
percent of its population. Le Pen wants to cut that to 10,000,
Sarkozy to 100,000. Hollande won’t give a target.  “To those French who stay home, don’t complain when
 Francois Hollande  is elected and regularizes all illegal
immigrants and lets foreigners vote,” Sarkozy said.  It’s a tactic that’s helped him win over Front votes in the
past. Le Pen’s animosity toward Sarkozy is in part because of
his 2007 claim he would “crush” the Front.  Sarkozy pinched much of her father’s vote that year. Jean-
Marie Le Pen lost half his votes between 2002 and 2007. Sarkozy
got half the defections.  Raison d’Etre  The Front’s hostility also stems from Sarkozy encroaching
on territory it considers its own, effectively challenging its
raison d’etre. National Front voters say they are carriers of
France’s traditions, rejecting they are driven by xenophobia.  “It’s about defending our values,” said Carole Renoult, a
45-year-old of Vietnamese origin, who sat at the table in
Compiegne with her friend Fauvergue, who is of Madagascan
descent. “It’s about respect for authority, about the
incivilities we see increasingly on our streets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Le Hamel, France, at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  