-- Sorouh Profit Rises as Revenue Doubled on Home Deliveries
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-04-29T07:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/sorouh-first-quarter-profit-climbs-30-as-sales-increase.html
Sorouh Real Estate PJSC (SOROUH)  said first-
quarter profit climbed 30 percent as  Abu Dhabi ’s second-biggest
property developer by market value more than doubled revenue
from homes deliveries and rentals.  Net income rose to 83.6 million dirhams ($22.8 million)
from 64.3 million dirhams a year earlier, the company said  in a
statement  to Abu Dhabi’s bourse today. That’s just above the 80
million-dirham  median estimate  of three analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue jumped 114 percent to 967.2 million dirhams.  “We continue to diversify our revenue streams which will
support the quality of our earnings over the medium-to-long
term,” Managing Director Abubaker Al Khouri said in the
statement. “The current flight to quality with Abu Dhabi real
estate leaves us well-positioned to deliver an exciting project
pipeline of some 7,000 units between now and the end of 2013.”  Property companies’ profits are picking up after  house
prices  in the United Arab Emirates capital slumped 50 percent in
the aftermath of the 2008 global credit crisis, which caused
banks to tighten lending and damped speculative demand. Sorouh
said almost all units sold in the Sun & Sky Towers project have
been handed over, generating gross profit of 33 million dirhams
in the first three months of 2012. Cash collections were about
450 million dirhams for the quarter, it said.  Government Projects  U.A.E. developers are generally paid in installments as
construction progresses and receive the final sum once the
property is delivered to its buyer.  Sorouh had 1.5 billion dirhams of cash at the end of the
quarter and has no immediate plans to tap debt markets, chief
financial officer Richard Amos told reporters on an earnings
conference call today. The developer spent 650 million dirhams
on projects during the first quarter and is on track to spend
1.8 billion dirhams during 2012, he said.  The company will deliver a total of 9,300 units this year
and in 2013, including 2,300 units in National Housing projects
for U.A.E. nationals.  “Government projects in Abu Dhabi are going to bode very
well for the residential and commercial property market,” Chief
Operating Officer Gurjit Singh said on the conference call.
Improved economic conditions in Abu Dhabi, which sits on 7
percent of the world’s proven oil reserves, would also boost
demand, he said.  Merger Plan  Sorouh and larger competitor  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , which
reported yesterday a more than doubling of first-quarter profit,
are exploring a merger with the “blessing” of Abu Dhabi’s
government, which owns stakes in both.  “The evaluation process to look at the legal and business
aspects of a potential merger is now under way and the ultimate
outcome of this process will take into account the best
interests of shareholders,” Sorouh said in the statement today.  The developer has 2.35 billion dirhams of  outstanding debt 
due in 2014, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sorouh shares rose 1.8 percent to 1.15 dirhams at 11:05
a.m. in Abu Dhabi, giving the company a market value of 3.02
billion dirhams. The shares have gained 35 percent this year,
outpacing the 5 percent rise in the benchmark  ADX General Index. (ADSMI)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  