-- Soviet Spy Jail Exposes Stalin-Era Torture, Injustice
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-04-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/soviet-spy-jail-exposes-stalin-era-torture-injustice-in-potsdam.html
In an unassuming former rectory in
the eastern German city of Potsdam, Soviet spy catchers once
tortured suspects to wring out confessions before executing
their victims or dispatching them to Siberian gulags.  The jail on Leistikowstrasse was part of a large Soviet
military complex during the  Cold War , sealed off from the
citizens of Potsdam by barbed wire and guards, and swathed in
secrecy and rumors.  At first run by the counter-intelligence agency SMERSH --
an acronym coined by  Josef Stalin  that means “Death to Spies”
in Russian -- it later came under the KGB.  The building, the only Soviet remand prison in East Germany
still in its original state, is now open to the public with a
new, permanent display exploring the crimes of Stalin’s regime
and the suffering of the German and Soviet inmates who
languished there, uncertain whether they would live or die.  “It’s a question of ensuring it never happens again,” 83-
year-old Friedrich Klausch, a former prisoner, said at the
opening this month. “We do have radical forces in this country.
It’s up to the rest of us to make sure we can carry on living in
peace and freedom.”  The jail is tucked away behind the gracious parkland of
 Cecilienhof Palace  -- the scene of the 1945 Potsdam Conference,
where Stalin met with the leaders of Britain, the U.S. and
 France  to carve up Germany after the allied victory in World War
II. Days after the leaders left town, the Soviets began
imprisoning their first spy suspects.  Dissidents, Deserters  In the postwar years, the inmates were mainly German. After
1955, they were almost exclusively citizens of the  Soviet Union 
-- military deserters and dissidents as well as criminals.  Klausch’s story recalls the many other accounts of Germans
imprisoned by Soviet counter-intelligence in the years of
political paranoia after World War II. At the age of 18, he was
arrested on his way home to Potsdam from a West Berlin cinema in
1948.  Interrogated over six months in the Leistikowstrasse jail,
he was sentenced to 25 years for spying. After a spell in the
Sachsenhausen labor camp in Berlin, he was deported to a gulag
north of the Arctic circle to work in the mines. He didn’t
return home for eight years.  The new exhibition includes the letter he was finally
permitted to write to his family, seven years after his
disappearance.  “It was only in 1955 that I found out there were two
German states,” he said.  Fabricated Confessions  Behind the peeling facade of the former jail, visitors can
inspect the tiny, dark and damp basement cells where prisoners
were confined with no bedding and no ventilation. They were
subjected to beatings and interminable interrogations, and
deprived of sleep and food.  Women and children were among those tortured; the youngest
inmate in the jail was 12.  Waldemar Hoeffding, who was a prisoner between 1945 and
1946, recalled the interrogation tactics and fabricated
confessions in his memoirs of the jail.  “Some ‘fatalists’ sign their statement without even
reading it,” Hoeffding wrote. “When I asked why they did that,
I usually got the same answer, ‘There’s no point; they will do
what they want anyway, and I will just lengthen my torture and
possibly worsen my fate.”  It is still not known how many were confined in
Leistikowstrasse -- so far, the fate of only 60 German and 10
Soviet prisoners has been recorded.  Skipping Lessons  The exhibition features the biographies of 50 former
prisoners. Some stories are heartbreaking: Sixteen-year-old
schoolboys shot in 1946 on suspicion of insurrection because
they skipped Russian lessons; a Ukrainian Red Army soldier
jailed in 1970 for trying to escape to West  Germany .  When the last Soviet troops left Potsdam in 1994, the
building was returned to the church foundation that was its
original owner.  An association including victims of Stalinism, protestant
church officials and the regional branch of  Amnesty
International  opened the house to the public and staged an
exhibition about the jail’s past.  Members of that association complain that the state-funded
exhibition that has now opened in its place is too soft on the
Soviet Union. In a reminder that this is still living history,
protesters at the opening formed a chain and handed out flyers.  “The dark dungeons and blocked and barred windows have
mostly disappeared and the light-flooded cells give the
impression of a normal prison,” the  flier  said. “Why is the
exhibition trying to play down the crimes of the KGB?”  Guenter Morsch, the director of the  Brandenburg Memorial
Foundation  which now runs the former jail, said he regretted the
conflicts with the association.  “We hope that we can set these aside, in talks and in
mutual respect, after the opening,” he said in a statement.  Today’s Muse highlights include: Richard Vines on best
 restaurants ;  Elin McCoy  on  wine .  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 