-- Spoonful of Zinc Can Save Countless Developing-World Kids
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-29T22:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/spoonful-of-zinc-can-save-countless-developing-world-kids.html
Addressing the health needs of the
world’s most vulnerable people is often a costly and complicated
undertaking. But on rare occasions, if the will is sufficient,
it can be simple.  So it is with the  No. 2  cause of death among children in
low-income countries: diarrhea. Weak health and poor nutrition
can make these children especially susceptible to deadly
dehydration. Among those less than 5 years old,  1.5 million die
from the condition annually , mostly in  Africa  and  South Asia .
India,  Nigeria  and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo have the
highest numbers.  In the past three decades, childhood diarrhea deaths have
been greatly reduced, mainly through huge efforts to introduce
an elementary treatment. Called  oral rehydration salts  (ORS),
this mix of five basic ingredients that dissolves in water has
been called the most important medical advance of the 20th
century.  The treatment was improved upon in 2004, when the World
Health Organization and Unicef  recommended  that, in addition to
ORS, young children be given zinc supplements. Research showed
that zinc, an essential micronutrient found in protein-rich
food, lessens the severity and duration of the condition and
suppresses future episodes. One study estimated zinc treatment
could reduce diarrhea-related deaths  by 23 percent .  Yet this intervention has barely been taken up. Since 2000,
ORS expansion has stalled, as fights against AIDS, malaria and
tuberculosis have taken priority, so that just  39 percent  of
developing-country children with diarrhea receive it. Worse,
 less than 1 percent  get the zinc supplement.  One problem is that in most of the developing world, zinc
is defined as a drug, which means just pharmacies can sell it
and only by prescription. Even so, it’s scarcely available. For
zinc manufacturers, the developing-world market is unappealing.
Given the poverty of the target buyers, profits look to be
small, and reaching consumers is difficult.  There are good reasons to regulate zinc. Excessive intake
can cause  side effects, such as stomach pain and fatigue.  As a
compromise, the WHO and Unicef should recommend that countries
make zinc available over the counter in a variety of locations,
including kiosks and grocery stores, as well as pharmacies. That
way, caregivers could easily buy it for a sick child.  Making zinc more available has been shown to work. In one
district of  Cambodia , in  a collaboration  between the government
and the nongovernment organization  PATH , village health workers
who are neither doctors nor nurses are allowed to dispense ORS
and zinc to parents. As a result, cases of moderate and severe
dehydration  have fallen there .  A partnership between private and public sectors can
address the supply issue. Zinc manufacturers are reluctant to
enter countries until a market has been reasonably established.
But health ministries, foreign-aid donors like the  U.S. Agency
for International Development , and NGOs such as PATH can help
build demand.  One strategy is to give away the treatment, initially, to
prime the pump. It’s not very expensive. A full course of ORS
and zinc costs about 70 cents.  Parents who try it quickly recognize its value. ORS alone
rehydrates the child but doesn’t lessen the diarrhea. With zinc,
a kid bounces back faster, appetite and activity return, and a
parent’s anxiety diminishes. Plus children who are given zinc
are  less likely to  be given antibiotics, almost always useless
against diarrhea and dangerous because they encourage
antibiotic-resistant bugs. In one trial of zinc in  India , oral
antibiotic use fell by 88 percent.  Points of distribution and education could include the
community-health centers and other networks that have so
successfully delivered childhood vaccinations to the developing
world (today  80 percent  of all children receive them before age
1). Immunization workers are reluctant to allow others to
piggyback on their system; parents whose children have just been
pricked can absorb only so much new information. But with
developing-world children suffering  two to 10 bouts  of diarrhea
a year, an exception should be made for a short, potentially
life-saving discussion about ORS and zinc.  The goal should be for parents to routinely give diarrheal
kids zinc as well as ORS, and for the free market to provide it.
When the public sector supplies such products free of charge, it
doesn’t learn from consumers which flavorings or formulations
(syrup or dissolvable tablet) they prefer. Because the market
does, it can help ensure zinc is embraced by consumers in a way
that will make a life-and-death difference to their children.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau ; William D. Cohan on the  federal debt ;  Simon
Johnson  on  German unions ; Richard G. Sloan on  fair-value
accounting ; John Eastman on  Arizona ’s  immigration law .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 