-- Starwood Hotels Plans Return to Iraq 20 Years After Gulf War
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-04-29T12:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/starwood-hotels-plans-return-to-iraq-20-years-after-gulf-war.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , owner of the luxury St. Regis and W brands, plans to re-
enter the Iraqi market, almost 20 years after exiting as a
result of the  Gulf War .  Starwood signed agreements to operate two hotels in Erbil,
Iraq, Guido De Wilde, senior vice president for the  Middle East ,
said in an interview in Dubai today. The hotelier will operate a
250-room Four Points by Sheraton and a Sheraton property with
221 rooms and 39 suites in 2015.  Starwood opened two hotels in Iraq in 1982, in Basra and
Baghdad, that were closed following the eruption of the Gulf War
in 1990. Erbil is Iraq’s fourth-largest city with a population
of around 1.3 million. It is also the capital of  Iraqi
Kurdistan , which is generally perceived as safer region for
business.  “Now we are going back mainly into the autonomous
regions,” De Wilde said. “We saw the opportunities for new
hotels that opened there like Rotana, which are doing extremely
well. There are positive elements there: oil, gas and
stability.”  The company is looking to operate properties again in
Baghdad and Basra once the security situation improves, he said.
Iraq holds the world’s fifth-largest oil reserves and a
population bigger than  Saudi Arabia ’s. The country’s economy
will probably grow to the equivalent of $3,528 per person this
year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Dubai, Saudi Arabia  Starwood will also open a Sheraton in Dubai, one of seven
sheikhdoms in the  United Arab Emirates , mid-next year, he said.
The property will be located on Sheikh Zayed Road, one of the
emirate’s busiest commercial streets, and will have 660 rooms,
he added. The company also plans to open a Sheraton hotel in
Saudi Arabia and two in Pakistan. With 50 properties under
management in the Middle East, the company intends to start more
than 30 hotels in the region over the next few years.  The hospitality company last week posted a more than
fourfold increase in first-quarter earnings. Net income rose to
$128 million, or 65 cents a share, from $28 million, or 14
cents, a year earlier, the Stamford, Connecticut-based company
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  