-- Surnames Superfluous as London Vote Pits Boris Against Ken
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-30T10:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/surnames-superfluous-as-london-mayor-vote-pits-boris-against-ken.html
The two leading candidates in the
May 3 London mayoral election don’t bother with surnames.  Boris Johnson , the Conservative incumbent, and  Ken Livingstone , his
Labour predecessor and challenger, are famous enough to get away
with the rock-star affectation whereby first names suffice.  The resemblance doesn’t end there. Both display scant
allegiance to their parties, with multiple television panel show
appearances and a record of winning votes from beyond their
camps. Each has a way with words and an eye for self publicity
that dismays party leaders.  The Ken versus Boris battle, which has flung accusations of
lying and hypocrisy in both directions, has starved other, more
conventional candidates of publicity. It suggests showmanship is
a more important skill for a London mayoral candidate than
understanding the mechanics of garbage disposal. That partly
reflects the nature of the job; while the mayor sets the
strategic direction for police, transportation and economic
development, he has little day-to-day power over any of them.  “Almost because they don’t have very much power, it’s more
important that they can command large amounts of publicity,”
said Johnson biographer Andrew Gimson. “Boris and Ken aren’t
absolutely symmetrical. Ken has really detailed knowledge of how
local government works; Boris has a quality that’s very unusual
in a politician, that he can cheer people up.”  Poll Lead  The  most recent poll  for  London ’s Evening Standard
newspaper, published today, put Johnson ahead by 52 percent to
48 percent in the decisive second round of counting, when the
second-preference votes from the five minor candidates will be
totted up. YouGov Plc questioned 1,231 London adults from April
27 to yesterday for the poll, for which no margin of error was
given.  That’s a wider lead than the two-point margin Johnson
enjoyed in the last YouGov survey a week ago, though not as big
as the eight-point advantage for the mayor in a ComRes Ltd. poll
conducted April 23 to 25.  Politically, the contest has significance beyond London,
with Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Labour leader  Ed Miliband 
counting on a win for their party’s candidate to help boost
their fortunes nationally.  London’s mayor has the largest personal constituency of any
British politician, with 5.8 million voters. Only the French
president has a bigger electorate in western  Europe . That gives
mayoral candidates a platform to speak on any issue they choose.  Even within the election, Livingstone is campaigning on
issues well beyond the remit of the mayor, attacking measures
such as the cut in the top income-tax rate in the Conservative-
led government’s March 21 budget, and pledging to restore
payments to poorer students that have been cut nationally.  ‘Fairer Britain’  “I see this election as a forerunner of the general
election to come” in 2015, Livingstone told journalists at an
April 17 lunch. “It’s about a fairer Britain.”  In a political career spanning four decades,  Livingstone ,
66, has stirred more trouble for his own party than for the
Conservatives. As leader of the Greater London Council in the
1980s, newspapers nicknamed him “Red Ken” for his support for
causes such as Irish nationalism and nuclear disarmament.  His policies brought him into conflict with Conservative
Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher , who scrapped the council and
dispersed its powers to local boroughs, leaving the capital
without an elected city-wide authority.  Elected to Parliament in 1987, Livingstone was such a
problem for Labour’s leadership that when Prime Minister  Tony Blair  created the post of London mayor in 2000, he blocked
Livingstone from being the party’s candidate. Livingstone ran as
an independent and won, leaving the official Labour candidate
trailing in third place. He was allowed back into the party in
2004, in order to run for Labour and win a second term.  Concentration Camp  Livingstone continued to court controversy as mayor. In
2006, he was  suspended from office  on full pay for four weeks
for comparing a Jewish journalist to a Nazi concentration-camp
guard.  Johnson , 47, the man who beat Livingstone in 2008, has
fought his share of battles with party leaders. Originally a
journalist, he gained notoriety for scrapes including being
fired as a trainee from the  Times newspaper  for making up a
quote from his own godfather.  This didn’t stop him rising to edit the  Spectator magazine ,
and in 2001 he was elected to Parliament. His first stint as a
party spokesman there lasted seven months until he was fired for
lying to the then Conservative leader, Michael Howard, about an
extra-marital affair exposed by the News of the World newspaper.  ‘Social Cleansing’  Since becoming mayor, Johnson has regularly criticized the
policies of Conservative Prime Minister David Cameron, arguing
for lower taxes for the rich and an end to “banker-bashing.”
He attacked plans to reduce social-housing subsidies, saying
they’d push poorer people out of central London and lead to
“Kosovo-style social cleansing.”  In every general election since 1997, Labour has led among
London voters, faring better there than in the country as a
whole. Miliband’s opposition party currently leads the
Conservatives nationally in the polls by about 10 percentage
points.  “If Boris loses, it won’t be as bad for Cameron as it will
be for Miliband if Ken loses,” said Tony Travers, director of
LSE London, a research center at the  London School  of Economics.
With the exception of 1981, London local elections have been a
bellwether for the following national general election, Travers
said.  Tax Spat  A key element of Livingstone’s campaign has been an attack
on Johnson for alleged  tax avoidance  by being paid through a
company, drawing a response from the mayor during a live radio
debate that it was an “absolute lie.” Livingstone has also
used a company to reduce his income-tax liability.  A Johnson win may boost calls for him to be his party’s
next leader whenever Cameron departs. With Livingstone already
old enough to draw his state pension, this election may mark
the end of an era in the capital’s politics.  “I have a theory this will be the last big personality
contest for London mayor,” said  Justin Fisher , professor of
politics at London’s Brunel University. “If Johnson wins, in
2016, Livingstone won’t be a candidate, and Johnson will feel
like he’s got bigger fish to fry. Both main parties have become
frustrated that the candidate is bigger than the party.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 