-- Swan Plans Savings With Australia Tax A$150 Billion Short
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-04-29T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/swan-plans-savings-with-australia-tax-a-150-billion-short.html
Australia will need to find
“substantial savings” in its budget due May 8 thanks to a
cumulative A$150 billion ($156 billion) writedown in expected
 tax revenue  over the past four years, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  Returning the budget to surplus in the year through June
2013 will be “that much harder” for Canberra as a result of
cuts in the tax revenue, which will take A$5 billion from the
budget that year and again in the year through June 2014, he
said in a weekly economic note yesterday.  Announcing a surplus will give “flexibility” to the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia to cut  interest rates  “if the
independent board thinks that’s required,” Swan said.  “Our savings will be targeted and responsible, charting a
middle course between those who say take a chainsaw to
 government spending  and those who say we shouldn’t cut at all,”
he said in an e-mailed statement.  The Reserve Bank is expected to make the first cut to
official borrowing costs in five months at its meeting May 1,
with 16 of 28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecasting
Australia’s interest rates will drop 0.5 percentage point to
3.75 percent in the next two months.  Swaps indicate the bank will trim the overnight cash-rate
target by more than a percentage point within a year.  Cuts of as much as 0.5 percentage point would help a retail
industry struggling with declining consumer confidence,
 Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES)  Managing Director Richard Goyder told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. television yesterday.  Lack of Confidence  “There’s a distinct lack of confidence here,” Goyder said.
“A rate cut would be good in terms of getting positive consumer
sentiment.” While a cut of 0.5 percentage point would have more
impact, Goyder said he “wouldn’t bet my house” on it happening.  Australia’s mining and energy boom made it the only major
developed country to avoid a recession in the wake of the 2008
financial crisis. The country accounts for about 40 percent of
worldwide iron ore exports and 30 percent of coal exports. There
are A$231.8 billion in major mining and energy projects
currently at an advanced stage of development, according to the
 government .  Still, a 72 percent increase in the value of the Australian
dollar against the greenback since the start of 2009 has hit
other trade-exposed areas of the economy, and the country’s
A$240 billion retail industry is suffering from  consumer
confidence  that has fallen for seven out of the past nine months.  Rates on Hold  The RBA has kept rates on hold since two successive cuts in
November and December brought key borrowing costs to 4.25
percent, still the highest among developed economies.  Wesfarmers on April 24 reported sales from its Target
department store chain fell 4.4 percent from a year earlier in
the March quarter, while those from its budget department store
Kmart rose just 1.2 percent.  Swan said that a return to  budget surplus  was a necessary
step to maintain the confidence of sovereign debt investors
despite the “huge battering” delivered to government revenue
since the 2008 financial crisis.  “Market confidence rests heavily on demonstrated fiscal
discipline and a loss of credibility can severely impact the
price at which  capital markets  are willing to finance a  budget
deficit ,” he said.  Taxes will amount to 22.8 percent of gross domestic product
over the two years starting July 2013, compared with 24.2
percent during the first stage of the country’s mining boom in
the middle of the last decade, Swan said. In all, the writedown
to expected tax revenues since the May 2008 budget amounted to
A$150 billion over a five year period, he said.  Budget Surpluses  Australia  ran 11 consecutive years of budget surpluses
until the 2008 calendar  year . It hasn’t matched revenue with
expenditure since, and prices of key exports such as coal have
fallen in recent months amid signs of slowing economic activity
in China, the country’s largest export market.  “All four of our previous big mining booms ended poorly --
some in recession, others with little lasting benefit to show.
This time it must and will be different,” Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard  said in an April 19 speech in which she said there was
“plenty of room” for the RBA to cut rates.  Investors and strategists including  Jim Chanos , founder of
New York-based hedge fund Kynikos Associates LP, have argued
that Australia will be vulnerable in the event of a hard landing
in  China ’s economy.  “What do you call a credit bubble built on a commodity
bull market built on a much bigger Chinese credit bubble?” asks
Societe Generale strategist Dylan Grice in a note to clients
April 24: “Australia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  