-- U.K. House Prices Rise in Demand Boost That May Fade
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-04-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/u-k-house-prices-rise-in-demand-boost-that-may-fade.html
U.K.  house prices  rose in April for
a second month, according to Hometrack Ltd., which said gains
may not be sustained as demand fails to keep up with supply.  Values rose 0.1 percent from March, when they increased
0.2 percent, the London-based property research company said in
an e-mailed report today. An indicator of demand rose at half
the pace seen in the previous month.  The  property market  received a temporary boost this year as
first-time buyers rushed to take advantage of a tax holiday on
some homes before it expired on March 24. Demand may be
undermined by Britain’s return to  recession  and a continued
squeeze on consumers from higher energy prices, Hometrack said.  “The short to medium-term outlook for prices hinges on the
outlook for demand,” said  Richard Donnell , director of research
at Hometrack. “Conflicting reports over the strength of the
economy and renewed fears over the prospects for the eurozone
could over the coming months impact on buyer confidence. As a
result, we expect price rises to flatten out as we move
into the summer.”  The number of new buyers registering with real-estate
agents rose 2.1 percent in April, compared with gains of 4.4
percent in March and 18 percent in February, which was the
biggest in five years. Hometrack said the impact of the ending
of the stamp-duty exemption is “starting to dissipate.”  The supply of properties, meanwhile, rose by 4.8 percent,
up from a 3.6 percent pace in March, taking the increase over
the past three months to 19 percent, the report said.  House prices  rose in four of 10 regions monitored by
Hometrack in April, led by a 0.3 percent gain in  London . The
company said there remains a divide between the property market
close to the U.K. capital and elsewhere in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 