-- U.S. Perfecting Formula for Budget Failure, Says Bowles
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-04-29T22:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/u-s-perfecting-formula-for-budget-failure-says-bowles.html
Erskine Bowles, a true Southern
gentleman and co-chairman of President Barack Obama’s erstwhile
 budget-deficit commission , came to  New York City  from his home
in  North Carolina  the other night to talk sense about the
nation’s perilous fiscal condition.  “I think today we face the most predictable economic
crisis in history,” he  told  an audience on April 24 at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  -- an audience that might actually
be able to help do something about the problem. “Fortunately, I
think it’s also the most avoidable. I think it’s clear, if you
do simple arithmetic, that the fiscal path that the nation is on
is simply not sustainable.”  Bowles, a Democrat, then laid on the crowd some pretty
simple, but devastating, arithmetic. He explained that 100
percent of the  tax revenue  that entered the Treasury in 2011
went out the door to pay for mandatory spending -- such as
Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security -- and to pay the
interest on our staggering $15.6 trillion  national debt .  That means that every single dollar we spent on everything
else, including two wars, national defense,  homeland security ,
education, infrastructure, high-value-added research and the
like, was borrowed. “And,” he warned, “half of it was
borrowed from foreign countries. And that is a formula for
failure in anybody’s book.”  Interest-Rate Help  He said the U.S. is now paying $250 billion a year in
interest on the debt, and that is only because, mercifully,
interest rates are at historic lows. That’s chiefly because
investors are more worried about the risk of default by European
nations, and because the Fed is doing everything in its power to
keep interest rates low. “It’s because we’re the best-looking
horse in the glue factory,” he said.  If interest rates were normalized, Bowles said, the annual
bill would be $600 billion a year. “We’ll be spending over $1
trillion on interest alone before you know it,” he said. To
nervous laughter, he offered the example of the country’s
obligation, by treaty, to defend  Taiwan  in the event that  China 
decides to invade the island. “There’s only one problem with
that,” he said. “We’ll have to borrow the money from China to
do it.”  But wait, it gets worse. He reminded the audience of the
numerous “cliffs” the country faces at the end of 2012 when
the George W. Bush tax cuts expire: More than $1.1 trillion will
be cut from the budget, about half of which will come from
defense because of the infamous “sequester” of last year; the
payroll tax cut will expire, as will the “patch” in the
alternate minimum tax. “If you add all those up,” he said,
“it’s probably $7 trillion worth of economic events that are
going to occur in December. And there’s been little to no
planning for that.”  It is every bit as criminally irresponsible for Congress to
fail to address this looming crisis as it was for Jimmy Cayne at
Bear Stearns,  Dick Fuld  at  Lehman Brothers  and  Martin Sullivan 
at AIG to ignore the financial problems at their firms in 2008.  Interestingly, Bowles remains optimistic that the
circumstances are so dire that Congress will have to act,
although it probably won’t happen until the seven weeks between
Election Day and the end of the year. “We have to,” he said.
“We’ve simply made promises that we can’t keep.”  Health-Care Costs  The big driver is clear, he said: “We have a health-care
system that’s absolutely crazy. We spend twice as much as any
other developed country in the world on health care, whether you
talk about it as a percent of GDP or on a per-capita basis. And
that might be OK if we could afford it, and it might be OK if
the outcomes were any good. But if you look at most outcome
measures, we rank somewhere between 25th and 50th in such
important measures as infant mortality and preventable deaths
and life expectancy. And anybody who thinks those 50 million
people who don’t have health-care insurance don’t get health
care, you’re just wrong. They get health care, they just get it
at the emergency room at five to seven times the cost it would
be in a doctor’s office. And that cost doesn’t go away, it gets
cost-shifted.”  Despite the March 28 defeat of a budget based on the
Simpson-Bowles plan by a House vote of 382 to 38, Bowles
believes a version will have to get adopted before we fall off
the cliff at the end of year. He has spent much of the last year
putting the plan into legislative language that has increased
its page count to more than 800 pages, from 67, and has put real
numbers to the various proposals.  “It’s a nightmare to do, but it absolutely is necessary,”
he said. He added that Simpson-Bowles is the “gold standard”
for figuring a way out of our fiscal mess, with its combination
of revenue increases, spending cuts and  tax reform . He allowed
that “most people” think there will be agreement on reducing
the deficit by $4 trillion, the “minimum amount you need to
reduce the deficit to stabilize the debt and get it on a
downward path as a percent of GDP.”  Without serious debt reduction, it won’t take much of an
increase in  interest rates  to create a fiscal crisis for the
country the likes of which only those who lived through the
Great Depression can recall. Once interest rates reach a level
that reflects the genuine risk inherent in our ongoing fiscal
mismanagement, and debt-service eats up more and more of a
shrinking pie, the financial crisis we just lived through (and
are still living through) will seem like a sideshow.  “Deficits are truly like a cancer,” Bowles said, “and
over time they are going to destroy our country from within.”  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau  and the  healing power of zinc ;  Simon Johnson 
on  German unions ; Richard G. Sloan on  fair-value accounting ;
John Eastman on  Arizona ’s  immigration law .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 