-- U.S.-China Officials Try to Defuse Chen Case Before Talks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-30T19:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/u-s-china-officials-try-to-defuse-chen-case-before-talks.html
U.S. and Chinese officials are
racing to resolve the case of a fugitive human rights activist,
and ensure it doesn’t derail annual talks between top policy
makers later this week.  Assistant Secretary of State  Kurt Campbell  arrived in
Beijing yesterday, earlier than planned, to prepare for the
gathering, two U.S. officials said yesterday on condition of
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
are still scheduled to meet counterparts in Beijing May 3-4 amid
reports the U.S. is protecting blind activist  Chen Guangcheng ,
according to the officials, who declined further comment.  The case may be one of the toughest challenges yet for
President Barack Obama on managing relations with China, with
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  charging the administration
with failing to fight hard enough for U.S. interests. Abandoning
the talks would risk deepening tensions between the world’s two
largest economies at a time when global growth is already
overcast by  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Obama refused to comment on the case when asked about it
today at a White House news conference.  “I’m aware of the press reports on the situation in  China ,
but I’m not going to make a statement on the issue,” Obama
said. “What I would like to emphasize is that every time we
meet with China, the issue of human rights comes up.”  Balancing Concerns  Deputy National Security Adviser John Brennan said
yesterday that the administration is “working very closely with
the individuals involved.” Obama is working to balance
diplomatic concerns with a “commitment to human rights, making
sure that the people throughout the world have the ability to
express themselves freely,” he said on the Fox News Sunday
television program.  Beyond keeping this week’s talks on track is the importance
of keeping the broader relationship intact, given a widening in
bilateral engagement on issues from  Iran , Syria and freedom of
the seas to intellectual property rights, trade, investment, and
cyber crime and espionage, according to the two officials.  Chen, who is blind, last week escaped house arrest in
Shandong province, where he’d been held since release from
prison in September 2010, Midland, Texas-based ChinaAid, a U.S.-
based human rights group,  reported . He’s now under U.S.
protection in Beijing, ChinaAid’s founder Bob Fu said in an e-
mail April 27, citing people close to the situation.  China Decision  Chen and his family may ultimately be allowed to travel to
the U.S., the  Associated Press  reported Fu as saying. Fu
predicted a decision will be made by China’s leaders as soon as
within a couple of days, the AP said.  The annual Clinton-Geithner talks, which “substantively,
probably would have been inconsequential, suddenly become the
most important test for Sino-U.S. relations for the Obama
administration thus far in its tenure,” said  Chris Johnson , a
former senior China analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency
who is now an adviser at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in  Washington .  Republican reaction to the Chen episode has been muted so
far.  “My hope is that U.S. officials will take every measure to
ensure that Chen and his family members are protected from
further persecution,” Romney, a former Massachusetts governor
running to unseat Obama in the November presidential election,
said in a statement yesterday. The U.S. “must play a strong
role in urging reform in China and supporting those fighting for
the freedoms we enjoy,” he said.  Tiananmen Case  The Chen case may be an echo of an incident with dissident
Fang Lizhi, who was housed in the U.S. embassy in Beijing for 13
months in the wake of the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests, when
the Communist Party clashed with pro-democracy students. He left
the country for the U.S. after his stay at the embassy, and died
earlier this month in Tucson, Arizona, at the age of 76.  Bilateral ties have been transformed over the 23 years
since the Tiananmen protests, with the surge in China’s economic
and political importance and the end of the  Cold War  between the
U.S. and the former  Soviet Union .  “In 1989, China was in the international doghouse and
nobody in the U.S. political system could do other than protect
a dissident in our embassy,” said  Douglas Paal , a former  Asia 
Director at the National Security Council under Presidents
 Ronald Reagan  and George H.W. Bush. “This time, the human
rights situation is not great in China, but we have a China that
is much stronger economically, politically and internationally,
and is ready to assert its interests against the U.S.,” said
Paal, now vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace in Washington.  Trade Ties  The U.S. had a $295 billion trade deficit with China last
year, compared with a $6.2 billion deficit in 1989, according to
U.S. Commerce Department  data . American exports to the nation,
now the third-largest destination abroad for American goods,
have soared to $104 billion, from $5.8 billion. Machinery, farm
products, aircraft and medical instruments are the top export
categories, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Boeing Co. (BA)  last week reached an agreement to sell 20 long-
range 777 jetliners, the Chicago-based plane-maker’s most
profitable model, to  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670) , in a deal
with a list value of about $6 billion.  Treasuries Holdings  China also now holds $1.18 trillion of U.S. government
debt, ahead of the second-largest foreign creditor,  Japan , with
$1.1 trillion, up from $71.4 billion in March 2000,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Holding so much debt hasn’t given China any real leverage
over the U.S., according to Michael J. Green, a former NSC
senior director for Asia under President George W. Bush. If
China tried to unload American debt, it would cause as much harm
to itself as it would to the U.S., he said.  “There is room in the system for Clinton to push hard on
this -- there won’t be any hesitation because the Chinese hold
Treasury bonds,” said Green, now an associate professor of
international affairs at Georgetown University. Meantime, patchy
legal protections and open thefts of intellectual property rank
among U.S. business concerns in the nation.  China’s clout has ascended since 1989, and the U.S. and
others continue turning to China to restrain North Korea’s
military impulses, including another possible nuclear weapons
test.  Along with Russia, China used veto power in the United
Nations Security Council to stymie the Obama administration’s
pushes for tougher international action to block Iran’s
suspected nuclear weapons program and force Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad to halt the violence against his opponents.  Pivot to Asia  Clinton has proclaimed a U.S. foreign policy shift toward
East Asia, in part to counter Chinese territorial claims on oil-
rich areas in the South China Sea also claimed by Vietnam, the
Philippines and Brunei. The latest confrontation, between
Chinese and Philippine naval vessels is continuing near what the
Chinese call Huangyan Island and Filipinos call the Scarborough
Shoal.  China is using its growing economic muscle to increase its
influence as far afield as the new nation of South Sudan, where
it announced on April 28 it will provide $8 billion in loans,
and where the U.S. and other countries are trying to head off a
renewed war.  Domestic Politics  Both the China and America are preoccupied with domestic
politics this year, said  Bonnie Glaser  of the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington. The year will
see presidential and congressional elections in the U.S. and a
shift in the leadership of China’s Communist Party to the fifth
generation since Mao Zedong led the country’s 1949 communist
revolution.  “The trade relationship is much deeper, and we have a huge
number of dialogue mechanisms now that we didn’t have in the
past,” she said. “That doesn’t mean the Chinese will be
willing to use them.”  In addition, she said, the scandal surrounding ousted
Communist Party Politburo member Bo Xilai and his family, and
the Obama administration’s April 27 mention of selling new
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16 jet fighters to Taiwan, may have made
the Chinese more reluctant to let a leading critic go free or to
aid the U.S. in Syria or Iran if doing so would appear to be
yielding to American pressure.  It’s unlikely the Chinese will concede anything to the
U.S., Green said. “They’ll come and they’ll state their
positions and they’ll all talk past one another,” he said.
“Nobody in the Politburo wants to take on human rights. The
leadership is quite insecure now.”  If the Chinese “can find a face-saving solution that
works, that may be of interest to them because, just like the Bo
Xilai scandal, they keep wanting to just move on and refocus on
the succession,” Johnson said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 emailtv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  