-- UN’s Ban to Address Myanmar Parliament With Suu Kyi’s Seat Empty
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-04-29T17:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/un-s-ban-to-address-myanmar-parliament-with-suu-kyi-s-seat-empty.html
When United Nations Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon becomes the first world leader to address
Myanmar’s year-old parliament today there will be a notable
absentee:  Aung San Suu Kyi .  The refusal of Myanmar’s most famous dissident to take an
oath to “safeguard” the constitution after winning a seat in
by-elections this month puts Ban in the middle of an impasse
between her and President Thein Sein, the retired general behind
the country’s awakening from five decades of isolation. Suu Kyi
wants the oath changed to say lawmakers will “respect” the
constitution, which guarantees the military 25 percent of seats,
according to her party’s spokesman.  “I am hoping all sides will adopt positions that are
flexible,” Ban told reporters over dinner in the capital late
yesterday. “I know this is a sensitive issue.”  The vacant seat threatens to slow the pace of political and
economic changes that have prompted the U.S. and European Union
to ease sanctions against a country of 64 million people where
one in 30 has a mobile phone. Suu Kyi’s demand is a risky early
test of her clout, according to Vikram Nehru, a former economist
at the  World Bank .  “If the request had been granted it could strengthen her
hand,” said Nehru, now a senior adviser and analyst with the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in  Washington . “But
a flat-out refusal could have the opposite effect.”  On April 1, Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party
won 43 of 45 seats in by-elections, the most inclusive vote in
two decades. That outcome convinced Western nations to loosen
sanctions and development agencies to contemplate a resumption
of financial aid. As Myanmar’s biggest creditor,  Japan  forgave
about $3.7 billion of debt in a bid to infiltrate a market
dominated by rival  China , its biggest trading partner.  Suu Kyi Visit  Ban, making his first trip to Myanmar since July 2009, will
address the 664-member lawmaking body that is controlled by
 Thein Sein ’s Union Solidarity and Development Party and the
military. Suu Kyi’s party “welcomes” the address even though
it likely won’t attend, spokesman Nyan Win said.  “I don’t know exactly if we will participate in
Parliament,” he said by phone from Yangon yesterday. The
standoff may end “in one or two weeks,” he said.  Three years ago, Ban said he was deeply disappointed to
have been barred from seeing Suu Kyi, known in her homeland
simply as “The Lady.” Her father, General Aung San, was an
independence hero and was assassinated when she was 2 years old.  Tomorrow, as he wraps up a three-day trip, Ban will meet
the Nobel Peace Prize winner for the first time by Yangon’s Inya
Lake at her family home, where she spent 15 years of the past 23
years under house arrest.  ‘Extraordinary’ Change  “The pace as well as the nature of the change has been in
some ways extraordinary, and perhaps far in advance of what had
been envisaged,” Vijay Nambiar, who is traveling with Ban as
the UN’s special adviser on Myanmar, told reporters last week.  In Naypyidaw, unveiled in 2005 as the new seat of
government to replace Yangon located 200 miles (322 kilometers)
to the southeast, Ban will meet the retired generals who now
form the face of an elected leadership looking ahead to the next
nationwide vote expected in 2015.  Since taking office in March 2011, Thein Sein has freed
political prisoners, held talks with Suu Kyi, dismantled a fixed
 exchange rate  that distorted government revenue and halted the
construction of a $3.6 billion Chinese-backed hydropower project
in response to growing criticism China was exploiting Burmese
resources. He has also sought peace deals with ethnic-based
armies that control certain border areas.  Apart from Thein Sein, 67, Ban will hold talks with Lower
House Speaker Shwe Mann, 64, ranked No. 3 in the junta that
ruled Myanmar until last year, and the railways minister, Aung
Min, 62, who has been negotiating peace agreements with ethnic
rebel armies.  First Census  While in the capital, UN officials will also offer advice
on methodology for Myanmar’s first census in 30 years.
Population estimates vary widely, with the World Bank putting
the figure at  48 million , the  Asian Development Bank  at 60
million and the IMF at 64 million.  The Washington-based World Bank will open an office in
Myanmar in June to help assess the country’s debt levels. The
ADB is preparing to offer Myanmar several hundred million
dollars per year in grants and loans if the government clears
overdue debts and Western nations give approval.  Ban will seek clarification during his trip on the
government’s priorities. About 75 percent of the country lacks
access to electricity and more government funds are needed to
improve roads, bridges, hospitals and schools, the ADB said this
month.  Opium Trade  Ban will travel in a helicopter to Shan State, a
mountainous and isolated region where opium production is
rampant as farmers cultivate poppy fields as a cash crop to buy
food and other basic goods. Myanmar is the second-biggest
producer of opium after  Afghanistan  and has a rising number of
drug users that have led to the third-largest HIV epidemic in
 Asia , according to the UN’s program on HIV/AIDS.  The UN Office on Drugs and Crime last month expressed
“ cautious optimism ” that government efforts to eradicate opium
in the region have made significant progress, in part due to
negotiations on peace deals with minority ethnic groups.  “These ceasefires present the opportunity for a new
beginning, but what is really needed for the people of Shan is a
permanent end to all conflict through the acquisition of a
lasting peace,” Jason Eligh, Myanmar country manager for the UN
drug office, said in a March 23 statement. “The path to
achieving this peace is lined with poppies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  