-- Wesfarmers’s Goyder Calls for Australia Rate Cuts
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-04-29T00:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/wesfarmers-s-goyder-calls-for-australia-rate-cuts.html
Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES)  Managing Director
Richard Goyder called on the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  to cut
interest rates at its next meeting on May 1 to help a retail
industry struggling with declining  consumer confidence .  The head of Australia’s second-largest retailer told
Australian Broadcasting Corp. television that a cut of as much
as 0.5 percentage point would be “helpful for a number of
sectors.” The RBA has kept rates on hold since two successive
cuts in November and December brought key borrowing costs to
4.25 percent, still the highest among developed economies.  Swaps indicate Stevens will trim the overnight cash-rate
target by more than a percentage point within a year, and 16 of
28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect Australia’s  interest
rates  to drop to 3.75 percent in the next two months.  “There’s a distinct lack of confidence here,” Goyder said
in a transcript of the interview. “A rate cut would be good in
terms of getting positive consumer sentiment.” While a cut of
0.5 percentage point would have more impact, Goyder said he
“wouldn’t bet my house” on it happening.  Australia’s A$240 billion retail industry is suffering from
consumer confidence that has fallen for seven out of the past
nine months. Wesfarmers on April 24 reported sales from its
Target department store chain fell 4.4 percent from a year
earlier in the March quarter, while those from its budget
department store KMart rose just 1.2 percent.  Mining Boom  While Australia’s economy is driven by a mining boom
spurred by demand from China and  India  for  iron ore , coal and
liquefied natural gas, the retail, tourism and manufacturing
industries have weakened under a local currency that has risen
44 percent in the past three years.  Wesfarmers also owns chemicals companies, coal mines and an
insurer. Goyder said that he expects “more upward pressure on
prices rather than downward pressure” in the near term.  The price of thermal coal futures at Australia’s Newcastle
port dropped 22 percent over the past year, hitting an 18-month
low April 25.  Goyder said he would be prepared to sell the company’s coal
mining assets -- the Curragh steel-making coal mine in
Queensland state and a stake in the Bengalla mine in New South
Wales state -- at the right price.  “If someone walks in the door with an offer that’s
attractive we’ll look at it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  