-- White House Says No Known Terror Plot Year After Raid
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-04-29T16:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/white-house-says-no-known-terror-plot-year-after-raid.html
There is no evidence that al-Qaeda
terrorists are plotting attacks to coincide with the May 1
anniversary of the U.S.-led raid that killed  Osama bin Laden ,
White House counter terrorism adviser  John Brennan  said.  “At this time we don’t see any active plot that is under
way but we are maintaining our guard,” Brennan said today on
ABC’s “This Week” program. “We are vigilant throughout the
course of the year but on a day that marks the one-year
anniversary of bin Laden being brought to justice, we are
especially vigilant.”  A decade after almost 3,000 people were killed in the Sept.
11 attacks bin Laden orchestrated against  New York  and
Washington, Brennan said al-Qaeda’s ability to conduct terrorist
strikes has weakened.  “Their capability has been degraded significantly,” he
said during the  interview . “We have taken off the battlefield
the founding leader as well as other leading operatives. We have
degraded their infrastructure, their capability to train, their
capacity to deploy operatives.”  Still, he said the U.S. is “particularly concerned” about
al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, which operates in  Yemen  and
 Saudi Arabia . That group is blamed for supporting Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, who was sentenced to life in prison in February
for attempting to blow up a Northwest Airlines plane on
Christmas Day 2009 as it approached  Detroit .  In March, the organization claimed that it killed an
American teacher, Joel Shrum, who it said was attempting to
“spread Christianity” in Taiz, Yemen.  “They have demonstrated the intent as well as the
capability to try to carry out an attack,” Brennan said on ABC.
He made similar comments on “Fox News Sunday.”  Bin Laden Death  Brennan spoke about the first anniversary of bin Laden’s
death as President Barack Obama’s re-election campaign released
a television ad that suggested  Mitt Romney , the presumptive
Republican nominee, wouldn’t have authorized the raid that
killed the terrorist leader. Romney’s campaign has criticized
the ad and Brennan wouldn’t answer questions about whether
Democrat Obama is politicizing the issue.  “I don’t do politics,” he said. “I’m a counter-terrorism
adviser to the president. All that I know is that the president
made the decision when he was given the opportunity to take a
gutsy decision to carry out that raid with our special forces.”  Speaking on CNN’s “State of the Union” program, Brennan
said Obama remains “determined” to close the U.S. detention
camp in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. During his 2008 campaign, Obama
pledged to end the detention facility. Brennan said that has
been difficult, in part, because of critics in Congress.  “Congress has not made this easy,” Brennan said. The
detention camp must be closed “in a way that does not put the
safety of the American people in jeopardy but also in a manner
that we can bring justice to those people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  