-- Noma Keeps World’s Best Restaurant Title, Fat Duck Sinks
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-04-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-29/world-s-50-best-restaurants-awards-draw-keller-boulud.html
Noma, a waterside establishment in
Copenhagen where chef Rene Redzepi serves Nordic dishes such as
poached sea urchin and powdered cucumber, was last night named
the World’s Best Restaurant for the third straight year.  The Fat Duck, which came first in 2005, slumped to 13th
from fifth last year. It was overtaken by the chef’s new venue,
Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal , which entered the  World’s 50 Best
Restaurants  chart at ninth. The Ledbury, another London
restaurant, surged to 14th from 34th.  The highest U.S. entries were Per Se,  New York  (sixth);
Alinea,  Chicago  (seventh); and Eleven Madison Park, New York
(10th). El Celler de Can Roca, Girona, and fellow Spanish
restaurant Mugaritz, San Sebastian, held onto third and fourth
places, respectively. D.O.M.,  Sao Paolo , rose to fourth from
seventh.  “There is no doubt the World’s 50 Best Restaurants has
changed the history of gastronomy,” El Bulli’s chef,  Ferran Adria , said in a message to the organizers. “Today, it is the
most important event in world cuisine.” (El Bulli won the best
restaurant title five times before closing last year.)  Thomas Keller ,  Daniel Boulud , Adria and Redzepi were among
the chefs who attended the awards ceremony at the Guildhall in
London yesterday evening. A total of 47 of the top 50 winners
accepted invitations to the event.  Downing Street  Some of the leading chefs, including  Brett Graham  of the
Ledbury and Sat Bains, went to the prime minister’s residence,
at 10 Downing Street, before last night’s event. They were
supporting “Food Is Great,” part of a campaign to promote the
U.K. overseas.  Being named the world’s best can have a dramatic impact on
a restaurant. On April 28, Redzepi posted a note on Twitter that
he had 1,204 people waitlisted for that evening, compared with a
total of 14 guests for lunch and dinner exactly two years
before.  “We often had empty tables for lunch” before winning,
Redzepi said in an interview after his first triumph in 2010.
“The day after, we had more than 100,000 people trying to book
online, which is an obscene amount. So in one day, we could have
filled our restaurant for almost 15 years. It was a crazy
thing.”  The Top 50 features eight U.S. restaurants and five from
 Spain . Six establishments in  Asia  made the list and the
organizers announced plans to start the Asia’s 50 Best
Restaurants awards, to be held in  Singapore  in February 2013.  Voting Panels  The table is drawn up from the votes of members of 27
panels around the world, each with 30 members and a  chairman or
chairwoman . Panelists must pick four restaurants from within
their region and three from outside, and they must have eaten in
the places for which they vote within the previous 18 months.  I head the U.K. and Ireland panel this year and invited
French chefs such as Albert Roux and Pierre Koffmann to join as
well as younger restaurateurs such as Thomasina Miers of Wahaca.
The full list of panel members is only published after the
awards. Here’s a list of last year’s voters:
 http://www.theworlds50best.com/the-academy/ .  La Grenouillere  in northern  France  received the 2012 “One
to Watch” award. The restaurant placed at 81. Last year’s One
to Watch, Frantzen/Lindeberg,  Stockholm , rose 37 places to 20.  Elena Arzak from Arzak restaurant, in San Sebastian, Spain,
was named Veuve Clicquot World’s Best Female Chef; and Keller,
who also owns the French Laundry, Yountville,  California , won
the S. Pellegrino Lifetime Achievement Award.  The event at the Guildhall is limited to about 600 people.
It’s by invitation only and is one of the main chef events in
the world. The World’s Best Restaurants 2012 are sponsored by
 Nestle SA (NESN) ’s S. Pellegrino and Acqua Panna.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Mark Beech on  music , 
Martin Gayford on  art .  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 