-- 
Rice May Fall on ‘Abundant’ Thai Supply, Aiding World’s Poor as Corn Gains

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-05-04T01:46:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/-abundant-thai-rice-supply-to-keep-cap-on-global-prices-un-agency-says.html
Increased rice supplies from  Thailand ,
the biggest shipper, may help to boost global stockpiles and cap
prices, the  Food and Agriculture Organization  said, mitigating
record food costs that have pushed millions more into poverty.  “There is enough production in the world to keep prices
down,”  Concepcion Calpe , a senior economist at the  United
Nations ’ agency, said in an e-mail interview. Thai supplies may
be “abundant” this year, with rising output helping to boost
reserves, Calpe wrote, without giving precise forecasts.  Global food prices reached a record in February, driving 44
million more people into extreme poverty, according to a World
Bank estimate that month. Lower prices of rice, the staple for
half the world, may help to ease global inflationary pressures
and cut costs for buyers such as cereal maker  Kellogg Co. (K)   “African and Asian consumers should be smiling,” Tom Slayton, an Alexandria, Virginia-based rice analyst and former
publisher of The Rice Trader, said by e-mail. If the Thai crop
forecast is accurate, “world rice prices are not going to
follow the other grains and are likely to decline.”  Rice has lagged behind as corn and wheat rallied on harvest
disruptions and stronger demand. Corn has jumped 96 percent over
the past year in  Chicago , while wheat has rallied 54 percent and
soybeans have risen 38 percent. Rice, up 25 percent in Chicago,
may be “separating us from a food crisis.”  Abdolreza Abbassian ,
a senior economist at the FAO, said in March.  Competition from  Vietnam , “also tends to depress rice
prices in Thailand,” Calpe wrote in the April 28 e-mail. The
Southeast  Asia  nation, the world’s second-largest shipper, may
export more than 7 million tons this year, the FAO said in a
report on its website on May 2.  Thai Prices  Thai rice-export prices, the benchmark for Asia, have
dropped 9 percent since Feb. 9, and the 100 percent, grade-B
variety was at $508 per metric ton on April 27. Rough-rice
futures in Chicago traded at $15.405 per 100 pounds at 9.13 a.m.
in Singapore today, 7.8 percent higher this year. The Chicago
price peaked at a record $25.07 in April 2008.  Thai rice “production this year should be plentiful,”
Thosakdi Vanichkajorn, director-general of the Thai
Meteorological Department, said in an interview. “The weather
now is suitable for planting rice, unlike last year when the
main planting season was pushed off as rains were delayed.”  Record global food costs squeeze the world’s poor hardest
as they can spend more than half of their incomes on feeding
themselves, according to a  Feb 15. estimate  from World Bank
President Robert Zoellick. The food-price surge is also boosting
inflation worldwide, spurring central banks from  China  to the
euro region to increase  interest rates , potentially curbing
 consumer spending  and slowing economic growth.  Rising Inventories  World inventories of rice may advance 7 million tons to 139
million tons this year, the highest level since 2002, the FAO
said in its April Rice Market Monitor. Next year, closing global
inventories may surge to 150 million tons, based on a
preliminary forecast, it said.  “With increasing supplies, Thai rice prices may decline by
$20 a ton,” said Kiattisak Kanlayasirivat, a director at Novel
Commodities SA’s Thai office, who correctly forecast a rally
late last year. Still, demand from  Africa  and the Middle East
will likely support prices, Kiattisak said. Novel trades about
$600 million of rice a year.  The secondary Thai crop, which is being harvested through
to July, is forecast to climb 6.3 percent to a record 9.42
million tons, the Office of Agricultural Economics, a forecaster
under the farm ministry, said on its website on April 21. The
main harvest, which represents 70 percent of total output, may
gain 4.6 percent to a two-year high of 23.2 million tons in the
year starting October, according to the farm ministry.  ‘Will Be Bearish’  “Should this forecast be borne out by monsoonal
developments, this will be bearish for U.S. and Vietnamese
exporters,” wrote Slayton, the Virginia-based analyst. The U.S.
is the world’s third-largest shipper, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture , or USDA.  About 90 percent of the world’s rice is grown in Asia and
it’s the staple for more than 3 billion people worldwide,
according to the Los Banos, Philippines-based  International Rice
Research Institute , or IRRI. When rice tripled in 2008, 100
million were driven into poverty, according to IRRI’s website.  Lower rice prices may benefit cereal makers such as Kellogg
and  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  as well as buyers like Uncle Ben’s,
Slayton wrote, referring to the brand owned by Mars Inc., which
also makes Spearmint gum and Whiskas pet food.  Thailand, which represents one-third of global shipments of
30 million tons, may export 10 million tons in 2011, near a
record 10.1 million shipped in 2004, the USDA said on April 8.  While Thai farmers may harvest more rice, their U.S.
counterparts may cut back, favoring other crops. Growers in the
U.S. planned to cut rice plantings 17 percent to 3.018 million
acres (1.221 million hectares) this year, because of attractive
returns for corn, cotton and soybeans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in  Singapore  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  