-- 
`Generic Republican’ Is Only One to Unseat Obama: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-05-04T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/-generic-republican-is-one-to-unseat-obama-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
A subset of the wild and woolly field
of potential Republican presidential candidates will meet for
the first time this evening in a debate sponsored by  Fox News 
and the South Carolina  Republican Party .  None stands a chance of beating President  Barack Obama  in
2012, according to public opinion polls. The only one who comes
close is someone who’s not running:  Generic Republican .  The GOP field offers everything but, from far right-wingers
to party-identity-challenged wild cards to family-values
conservatives whose values would offend most families.  If Obama is as vulnerable as the polls suggest, a result of
soaring gas prices, high unemployment and a growing sense the
country is on the wrong track, you’d think the Republican Party
could find someone generic to fit the bill.  What exactly would Generic Republican look like? Here are
some qualities he or she would need:  No. 1. Value Judgment  Republicans claim to be the party of family values. That
doesn’t mean a candidate can tell everyone else how to live
their lives while he carries on with the neighbor’s spouse.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , thrice married,  cheated 
on wives one and two. He reportedly pressured wife one for
divorce when she was in the hospital recovering from cancer
surgery.  Gingrich was disciplined by the House for ethics violations
and resigned his seat in 1998. And now he wants his campaign to
focus on social issues?  Live-and-let-live libertarians would be happy if the
Republican Party never talked about social values or tried to
impose them on everyone else. But if social conservatives are
key to a victory in 2012, at minimum Generic Republican has to
practice what he preaches.  No. 2. A Skeleton-Free Closet  Five years ago Mitt Romney, former governor of true-blue
 Massachusetts , signed into law a bill that the president claims
was the model for the federal health-care bill passed last year.
If the Republican Party plans to make repeal of Obamacare part
of its platform in 2012, Romney has some explaining to do.  His absence from tonight’s debate should give him added
time to figure out how to differentiate his health-care plan
from Obama’s.  Nuances tend to get lost in the mud-slinging that passes
for presidential campaigns. Under the circumstances, it’s
probably best that Generic Republican have no policy skeletons
in the closet.  No. 3. Foreign Policy Credentials  With Obama’s approval rating getting a bounce after the
special forces’ deft assassination of Osama bin Laden Sunday,
Generic Republican is going to need to establish his foreign
policy credentials. Proximity to  Russia  didn’t qualify former
Alaska Governor Sarah Palin for the No. 2 job. And Texas
Congressman  Ron Paul ’s foreign policy of “non-intervention”
seems more suited to today’s Democrats.  Generic Republican should at least be able to identify all
the “-stans” on a map of Central Asia and pronounce their
leaders’ names correctly. Most important, he must look
comfortable in those group photos of heads of state gathered to
solve the world’s problems.  No. 4. Business Acumen  The fiscal can that’s been kicked down the road for so long
is going to land in the next president’s lap. Generic
Republican’s curriculum vitae should include running a business
or, better yet, running one into and successfully out of Chapter
11 bankruptcy.  Mitt Romney  may have some of the business acumen this
country needs, but only  Donald Trump  has four chapter 11
bankruptcy filings to his name.  No. 5. Good Grasp of American History  One bedrock Republican principle is the need to return the
country to its Constitutional roots. The federal government has
exceeded its “enumerated powers” as outlined in Article 1,
Section 8, to such a degree it’s become an unrecognizable,
unmanageable behemoth, with tentacles reaching into all facets
of our lives.  It’s essential for Generic Republican to have a good grasp
of American history, the Founding Fathers and the Constitution
they crafted. The founders did not abolish  slavery , as Minnesota
Representative Michele Bachmann claims. And the Revolutionary
War began in Massachusetts, not  New Hampshire , even though both
states have a town called  Concord .  Tonight’s debate will be as notable for who won’t attend as
who will. Only declared candidates who have formally registered
an exploratory committee with the  Federal Election Commission 
can participate, according to the rules laid out by Fox. That
limits the list to former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty ,
former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum, Ron Paul, businessman
Herman Cain and former New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson.  Missing from the stage will be Bachmann, Trump and Gingrich
as well as four former governors: Romney, Palin, Mike Huckabee
( Arkansas ) and Jon Huntsman (Utah); and one sitting governor,
Mitch Daniels ( Indiana ).  And, of course, Generic Republican.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  