-- 
3i May Attract Takeover Bids After Shares Decline, Oriel Says

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-05-04T09:10:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/3i-may-attract-takeover-bids-after-shares-decline-oriel-says.html
3i Group Plc (III) , the U.K.’s largest
publicly listed private-equity firm, may attract takeover bids
after its share price fell this year, according to Oriel
Securities Ltd.  3i’s shares are trading at a discount of about 20 percent
to the value of the company’s assets, Oriel said today in a note
to clients. The volatility of the firm’s share price is posing
the question of whether London-based 3i should remain listed,
Oriel said.  “If 3i Group continues to trade on a sizeable discount or
more than 15 percent for a period of time, there must be some
chance of a takeover approach,” wrote Iain Scouller, an analyst
at Oriel in London. “Suitors may be interested in acquiring a
block of private-equity assets, teams of experienced investment
professionals, together with a valuable network.”  3i, one of the U.K.’s oldest private-equity firms, fell the
most in more than 10 months in  London  trading on April 1 after
saying investments in Britain showed a “weaker performance”
than elsewhere. The shares have declined 15 percent this year to
279 pence, cutting the company’s market value to 2.7 billion
pounds ($4.5 billion). Oriel rates 3i a “buy” with a price
target of 340 pence a share.  “Excessive volatility can be a weakness in the listed
model,” Scouller said. “Therefore, we think it worth
discussing whether it remains appropriate for 3i Group to be
listed, or whether an unlisted structure is better.”  3i’s View  The advantages of being publicly traded outweigh the
negatives, Patrick Dunne, 3i’s communications director, said
today in a telephone interview.  “One of the major attractions of being listed that isn’t
mentioned in the note has been our ability to develop businesses
such as infrastructure and debt management from our own balance
sheet with great flexibility,” Dunne said. He declined to
comment on the share price or possible takeover approaches.  3i Chief Executive Officer Michael Queen has been seeking
to increase profit after the financial crisis almost halted
dealmaking. Queen combined 3i’s leveraged-buyout team with its
growth capital unit in September and agreed to buy Mizuho
Investment Management U.K. Ltd. to expand its holdings in
corporate debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  