-- 
AB InBev Volume Misses Estimates as U.S. Consumption Drops

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-05-04T07:59:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/ab-inbev-volume-misses-estimates-as-u-s-consumption-drops.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s
biggest brewer, reported first-quarter volume that missed
estimates as high unemployment levels in the U.S. caused
consumers to drink less beer.  Organic volume, which excludes the effects of acquisitions
or disposals, slid 0.4 percent, the Leuven, Belgium-based
company said today in a statement. The median estimate of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 1.4 percent
increase.  Volume in  North America  dropped 3.4 percent in the quarter
amid lackluster demand and as the company raised prices. AB
InBev, the brewer of  Bud Light  and  Stella Artois , predicted in
February that growth would be “soft” in the quarter as a high
number of jobless U.S. consumers and heavy rain in Brazil
reduced purchases. Market share of its Budweiser brand continued
to decline in the U.S., although at a slower pace than in the
previous quarter.  “Despite management guiding to a soft start to the year in
March, the first quarter still came in below the consensus on
organic volume,” analysts at Jefferies in  London  including Dirk Van Vlaanderen wrote in a note today. “The U.S. remains
challenging and Brazilian volumes were slightly softer than
expected.”  Shares Slide  AB InBev shares slid as much as 1.62 euros, or 3.8 percent,
to 41.25 euros and traded at 41.60 euros as of 9:51 a.m.
Brussels time. The stock has dropped 2.8 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 66.8 billion euros ($99.3
billion).  “High levels of unemployment, especially amongst core
consumers, continue to affect overall beer industry volumes” in
the U.S., the company said today in the statement. “We continue
to believe that a recovery in the  U.S. economy  is a question of
when and not if. In the meantime we will remain focused on
building the health of our brands.”  Sales in Brazil were held back by capacity shortages as
well as heavy rainfall, as demand outstripped supply. That led
to a 0.4 percent decline in volume in the country’s sales in
north  Latin America . The company is adding capacity to its
existing plants in the country and building a new factory in the
north-east, Chief Financial Officer Felipe Dutra said today on a
conference call. The factory will start production in the second
half of the year.  Net Income  First-quarter net income more than doubled to $964 million
from a year earlier, helped by lower interest charges on debt.
Analysts had estimated profit of $1.15 billion. Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services raised the brewer’s long-term debt
rating to A- in April, citing cash generation and debt
reduction.  Sales rose to $9 billion, compared with the analysts’
estimate of $8.89 billion. Excluding acquisitions, sales grew
5.6 percent as the company sold more higher-priced beers as
consumers traded up to more expensive brands and after the
company raised prices in the second half of 2010 in  Brazil  and
the U.S., its two largest markets, according to Dutra.  Normalized earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, which exclude one-time gains or costs, rose to
$3.41 billion from $3.09 billion. On an organic basis, Ebitda
increased 6.5 percent. Analysts had estimated an 8.3 percent
increase.  Cost of Goods  The cost of goods rose 3.3 percent in the quarter amid a 15
percent increase in distribution expenses, the company said,
citing factors including the cost of transporting its beers to
areas of Brazil where AB InBev doesn’t yet have factories.
The company expects distribution costs to increase “in mid-
single digits” for the year as distribution costs decrease
compared with the first quarter, Dutra said.  AB InBev, which was created when InBev NV took over St.
Louis-based Anheuser-Busch Cos. in 2008 for $52.5 billion, said
it cut $75 million of costs in the first quarter. The company
has a three-year target of achieving $2.25 billion in annual
cost savings by the end of 2011, with $270 million of that
coming from measures including closing factories this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 