-- 
Abbas Patches Four-Year Rift With Hamas in Bid for Palestinian Statehood

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 
2011-05-05T06:57:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/abbas-patches-four-year-rift-with-hamas-in-bid-for-palestinian-statehood.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas , who is trying to reunite the West Bank and  Gaza
Strip  by reconciling with the Islamic Hamas group, is seeking to
persuade skeptics that their accord won’t derail movement toward
statehood.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu immediately
dismissed the agreement Abbas concluded in Cairo yesterday with
Hamas leader Khalid Mashaal, calling it a victory for terrorism.
Abbas said Palestinian reconciliation is critical to his
statehood ambitions by closing the rift between West Bankers and
Gazans.  The power-sharing agreement between Hamas and Abbas’s Fatah
faction “sends a message to the world in general and to the
Israelis in particular that the Palestinians are unified when it
comes to the establishment of a state,” said Naseef Mualem,
head of the  Palestinian Center for Peace and Democracy  in the
 West Bank  city of Ramallah.  With Israeli-Palestinian peace talks stalemated since
September, Abbas moved to heal the almost four-year schism that
left his Fatah party governing only the West Bank after Hamas
seized control of the Gaza Strip. Street rallies in both
territories demanding Palestinian unity echoed calls for
democratic change across the Arab world, which led to the
toppling of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and Tunisian
President Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali.  Joint Government  “Abbas believes he can juggle a power-sharing arrangement
with Hamas with his pre-existing commitments to security and
West Bank economic development, yet the Middle East is messier
and he will probably be forced to make a choice,” said  David Makovsky , director of the Washington Institute for Near East
Policy’s Project on the Middle East. Congress will probably cut
aid to the Palestinians because of Abbas’s alliance with Hamas,
Makovsky said.  The accord, signed by leaders of Hamas, Fatah and 11 other
Palestinian factions, calls for the establishment of a joint
government in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and elections within
a year.  “We have turned the page from this black internal
division,” Abbas said at the ceremony. “We may differ, and we
often do, but we still arrived at a minimum level of
understanding.”  Abbas has said that Hamas won’t be asked to recognize
Israel because he will be directing foreign policy and the
government will consist of “technocrats” who aren’t explicitly
connected to one faction or another.  ‘Pay Any Price’  Hamas hasn’t participated in peace talks with the Jewish
state, which it refuses to recognize. Hamas is considered a
terrorist organization by the U.S., European Union and  Israel .
Fatah seeks a negotiated peace agreement with Israel leading to
the establishment of a Palestinian state in the West Bank, Gaza
Strip and east  Jerusalem .  Netanyahu, who is on a European trip to meet with the
leaders of the U.K. and  France , said Israel wouldn’t negotiate
with a government that includes Hamas.  “What happened today in Cairo is a tremendous blow for
peace and a great victory for terrorism,” Netanyahu told
reporters traveling with him in  London .  Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said May 1 that his
government will withhold  tax revenue  collected on behalf of the
Palestinians until it is certain the funds won’t end up in the
hands of Hamas.  Washington  Meeting  Netanyahu will be in Washington, D.C., on May 20 to meet
with U.S. president  Barack Obama , the White House said in a
statement.  The U.S. has said it might reconsider aid it gives to the
Palestinians should the reconciliation lead to a unity
government that flouts conditions for a peace agreement with
Israel, including its right to exist.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said that the Palestinians
need to ensure that implementation of the agreement “advances
the prospects of peace, rather than undermines those
prospects.” The U.S. is seeking more details on the accord, he
said.  The Palestinian Authority is supposed to receive almost
$600 million from the U.S. this year, according to the State
Department. Hamas receives millions of dollars from  Iran  each
year, according to Hamas leader Mahmoud Zahar.  Paris Talks  Netanyahu met U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  for dinner
last night and travels to Paris today for talks with French
President Nicolas Sarkozy aimed at tempering European support
for a Palestinian state that includes Hamas, the Israeli prime
minister told reporters.  Cameron said before the meeting that the U.K. sees this as
a “moment of opportunity” to push the  peace process  forward.
Netanyahu called for “moral clarity and political clarity” in
what he described as the “great struggle now under way between
the forces of democracy and moderation and the forces of tyranny
and terror” in the Middle East.  Fatah and Hamas reached an agreement on April 27 that
paved the way for yesterday’s ceremony. In 2007, Hamas violently
ousted forces loyal to Abbas from Gaza a year after winning
parliamentary elections.  Peace negotiations between Abbas and Netanyahu fell apart
last year after Israel refused to extend a partial 10-month
construction freeze in Jewish settlements in the West Bank.
Abbas has said he will resume negotiations only when all
building is halted.  Recognizing State  The unity agreement may be a step toward the  Palestinian
Authority  seeking United Nations recognition of an independent
state if negotiations with Israel, broken off last September,
aren’t resumed.  “The need for reconciliation has become more urgent given
that the Palestinian Authority has, in the eyes of the world,
crossed the line in terms of statehood readiness,” Palestinian
Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad told reporters in
Ramallah.  France is considering recognition of a Palestinian state as
“one of the options we are reflecting on with our European
partners,” said French Foreign Ministry spokesman  Bernard Valero .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at  at
 jferziger@bloomberg.net 
Saud Abu Ramadan in Cairo through the Jerusalem newsroom at
   sramadan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  