-- 
ADB Says 3 Billion People in Asia May Reach Europe-Level Incomes by 2050

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-05-04T08:29:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/adb-says-3-billion-people-in-asia-may-reach-europe-level-incomes-by-2050.html
Asia ’s growth can propel three billion
people to affluent levels by 2050 should policy makers
successfully narrow inequalities and avoid falling into a so-
called middle-income trap, the  Asian Development Bank  said.  Successful national and regional policies may boost Asia’s
gross domestic product to $148 trillion by mid-century, making
up 51 percent of global output in 2050, the Manila-based lender
said in a report today. In another scenario, where countries
such as  China ,  India ,  Indonesia  and Vietnam see growth slow and
others fail to stoke their expansions, the region would account
for 32 percent, or $61 trillion, of global GDP in 2050, it said.  Companies from Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s top
maker of  luxury vehicles , to LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA,
the No. 1 purveyor of high-end  consumer goods , are betting on
the first scenario. China’s economic growth has spurred record
demand for German cars, and India’s swelling middle class has
prompted Paris-based LVMH to boost investment in the country.  “Levels of prosperity are only going to improve,” said
Madan Sabnavis, an economist at Mumbai-based CARE Ratings, which
grades creditworthiness of Indian companies. “I don’t think
there are major risks. If you look at last three crises -- be it
the regional crisis or global crisis -- it doesn’t last very
long and the pace of recovery is faster than ever before.”  Episodes of Crisis  Asia was hit by a financial crisis in 1997-98 when nations
from  Thailand  to  South Korea  depleted foreign-exchange reserves
defending their currencies in the aftermath of a borrowing binge.
The region also saw growth slow as the global economy slid into
recession from the impact of the 2007-09 credit-bubble burst.  “As Asia leads the world out of recession, the global
economy’s center of gravity is once again shifting toward the
region,” said ADB President Haruhiko Kuroda said. “The
transformation under way has the potential to generate per
capita income levels in Asia similar to those found in  Europe 
today. By the middle of this century, Asia could account for
half of global output, trade, and investment, while also
enjoying widespread affluence.”  Asian equities have outpaced the world in the past decade,
with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbing 61 percent in dollar
terms, compared with a 22 percent advance for the MSCI World
Index.  Asia must modernize its governance systems and remake its
institutions to ensure transparency, accountability, and the
enforceability of rules and regulations, the ADB said. The
region’s long-term competitiveness will depend heavily on how it
controls the intensity of its resource use, including water and
food, it said.  “To meet these challenges, Asian leaders need to devise
bold and innovative national policies while pursuing regional
and global cooperation to successfully manage regional public
goods,  energy security , infrastructure connectivity, food
supplies and water resources, and to maintain long-term peace
and stability,” the ADB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  