-- 
ADCB, Drake & Scull, Jazeera Airways, NBAD: Gulf Equity Preview

-- B y   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 
2011-05-04T05:23:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/adcb-drake-scull-jazeera-airways-nbad-gulf-equity-preview.html
The following stocks may rise or fall
in Persian Gulf markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
prices are from the last close.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  advanced 0.1 percent. The  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  lost 0.1 percent. The Saudi
 Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  decreased 0.4 percent.  Abu Dhabi  Commercial Bank (ADCB UH): The United Arab
Emirates’ third-biggest bank wants to sell its 25 percent stake
in  Malaysia ’s RHB Capital Bhd. for about 10 ringgit a share, or
at two times book value, the Star reported, citing people it
didn’t identify. As many as five potential buyers have submitted
bids for the stake, it said. The shares fell 1.1 percent to 2.84
dirhams.  Drake & Scull International (DSI)  PJSC: The Dubai-based
construction and engineering company won a 180 million-dirham
($49 million) contract for the complete mechanical, electrical
and plumbing works for a government project in Abu Dhabi. The
shares were unchanged at 1.04 dirhams.  Jazeera Airways (JAZEERA)  KSC: The Kuwaiti low-cost
airline reported a profit of 1.1 million dinars ($4 million)
after a loss of 4.5 million dinars a year earlier. The shares
were unchanged at 120 fils.  Kuwait Finance House (KFIN)  : The country’s largest
Islamic bank plans to expand to Oman through opening a branch or
forming a partnership, Al-Qabas reported, citing unidentified
people familiar with the matter. The shares were unchanged at
1,080 fils.  Mobile Telecommunications Co. (ZAIN KK): Kuwait’s biggest
phone operator known as Zain may say first-quarter profit rose
42 percent to about 73 million dinars ($266 million), Al-Qabas
reported, without saying where it got the information. The
shares advanced 1.7 percent to 1,200 fils.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD)  : The U.A.E.’s
second-biggest bank by assets doesn’t need extra funding and has
no immediate repayment to make, said Mahmood Al Aradi, senior
general manager of financial markets. The shares retreated 0.4
percent to 11.2 dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahraa Alkhalisi in Dubai at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  