-- 
Madoff Trustee Allots $2.6 Billion for Ponzi Scheme Payouts

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-04T19:56:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/madoff-trustee-picard-allots-2-6-billion-to-fund-for-ponzi-scheme-payouts.html
The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s firm said he would allocate $2.6 billion to a fund for
investors who lost money in the  Ponzi scheme  and pay an initial
$272 million to those with approved claims.  “We can now begin to return stolen funds to their rightful
owners,” the trustee’s lawyer,  David Sheehan , said in a
statement today. A judge must first approve the plan.  Trustee Irving Picard, who has filed more than 1,000 suits
seeking money for Madoff investors, said in the statement that
he had recovered $7.6 billion, or about 44 percent of the
estimated principal of $17.3 billion lost in the Ponzi scheme.
He and his law firm, Baker & Hostetler LLP, have requested
$175.5 million in fees for their efforts.  Because of court challenges, most of the money isn’t
available to put in the customer fund or distribute, Picard
said. Two appeals have been filed against Picard’s $5 billion
share of a settlement with the estate of Jeffry Picower, he
said.  Picard’s lawsuits have targeted banks as well as
individuals who invested large sums with Madoff, such as Picower
and Norman Levy.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , sued for $6.4 billion for
allegedly assisting the fraud, and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , sued
together with so-called feeder funds for $9 billion, have
challenged the trustee’s right to make such fraud claims, or sue
on behalf of customers.  A  Manhattan  judge is looking into whether Picard does or
doesn’t have the right to pursue such lawsuits.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 