-- 
Lagarde Says Euro’s Strength Brings Benefits by Cutting Raw-Material Costs

-- B y   P h i l l i p   Y i n   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-05-04T07:21:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/lagarde-says-euro-s-strength-brings-benefits-by-cutting-raw-material-costs.html
A strong euro benefits the region’s
companies as it cuts costs of raw materials priced in dollars
and forces European firms to seek additional ways to boost
competitiveness, French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said.  The euro is doing “extremely well” Lagarde said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Hanoi, even as she added
that she would like to see a “strong dollar.” The European
currency has advanced 11 percent against the dollar so far this
year as the  European Central Bank  raised rates and the  Federal
Reserve  continued to pledge “exceptionally low” borrowing
costs.  Lagarde signaled that inflation is a greater concern than
growth in the euro region, saying there’s no need for further
stimulus, and warning that consumer-price increases are
accelerating “a little bit.”  The currency shared by 17 European Union members was at
$1.4826 as of 3 p.m. in  Singapore , after surpassing $1.49 for
the first time since 2009 this week. The Dollar Index, which
tracks the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, is down 7.4 percent this year.  “When you have a very strong currency relative to the
dollar and a rising barrel of oil, you certainly get more value
out of a strong euro than a weak dollar,” she said. “It cuts
both ways. It’s a deterrence when it comes to competitiveness
but it’s a strong benefit when it comes to buying raw materials
in U.S. dollars.”  The French finance chief, attending the  Asian Development
Bank ’s annual gathering, told reporters earlier that the
increase in food and oil prices “needs to be addressed.” Each
nation must decide the right policy mix, she said, citing
 interest rates  and “prudential rules” as policy tools.  Lagarde also said it is “comforting” to see that Portugal
has reached an agreement on a bailout package. Portugal
announced an agreement late yesterday on a 78 billion-euro ($116
billion) three-year loan package.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  