-- 
Thai Bonds Decline on Accelerating Inflation, Election Concerns

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-05-04T09:51:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/thai-bonds-decline-on-accelerating-inflation-election-concerns.html
Thailand ’s bonds fell for a second day
after inflation quickened to a 15-month high and reports gave
rise to uncertainty regarding the timing of parliamentary
elections scheduled for this year. The baht was little changed.  The Bank of Thailand said today a decision to delay lifting
curbs on diesel prices may lead to an increase in pent-up
pressures and pose a risk to inflation, especially if oil rises
more than anticipated. Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
said today he still plans to seek a royal decree to dissolve the
 House of Representatives  during the first week of May, which
would trigger an election within 45 to 60 days.  “A couple of issues are bugging investor sentiment,”
including “political uncertainties,” said Radhika Rao, a
regional economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “The April CPI
was a lot stronger than expected. It outdid even the most
pessimistic estimates. That triggered some inflation worries.”  The yield on the 3.125 percent debt due December 2015 rose
four basis points to 3.45 percent as of 4:33 p.m. in Bangkok
after a 10 basis-point advance yesterday that was the biggest
since December, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Election Issue  The onshore one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, increased nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.23 percent.  The government is likely to wait for the Constitutional
Court to rule on whether election laws passed this year comply
with the constitution, which may happen on May 9, Deputy Prime
Minister Suthep Thaugsuban earlier told reporters in Bangkok
today. Thailand has had nine polls since 1988, with the two most
recent votes marred by street protests and legal rulings against
the elected politicians.  The  consumer price index  climbed 4.04 percent in April from
a year earlier following a 3.14 percent increase in March, the
commerce ministry reported May 2. The median estimate of 11
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 3.20 percent
gain.  The baht weakened as much as 0.3 percent before trading at
29.99 per dollar in Bangkok, unchanged from yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency reached 29.78 on May
2 in offshore trading, the strongest level since Nov. 15. It may
trade between 29.85 and 30.10 this week, Rao predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  