-- 
Air France Victim’s Body Recovered From Atlantic After Two Years on Seabed

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-05-05T11:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/air-france-crash-crew-to-attempt-body-recovery-from-wreckage.html
Underwater salvage teams retrieved a
body from the wreck of the Air  France  Airbus that crashed into
the Atlantic two years ago as they seek to collect more evidence
to help explain the worst disaster in the airline’s history.  Investigators took a tissue sample for DNA analysis, French
police said today. The sample will be sent to Paris with the
flight recorders to determine whether the victim can be
identified, according to an e-mailed police statement.  The recovery of bodies from the crash site, which lies
beneath 3,900 meters (12,800 feet) of water, began after robots
found the two flight recorders that store data and cockpit
voices that may explain the accident. All 228 people aboard the
Airbus SAS A330 were killed when the jet plunged into the ocean
on June 1, 2009, en route to Paris from  Rio de Janeiro . Bringing
up bodies has stirred controversy among the victims’ families.  The families are “very divided” about lifting bodies from
the wreck, said Alain Jakubowicz, an attorney who represents the
relatives of 70 victims of flight AF447. “There are a lot of
technical challenges, this has never been done.”  The bodies of 51 of the dead, including the flight captain,
were recovered from the sea in the weeks following the crash.
The operation to recover the first corpse was “particularly
complicated” and succeeded only on the second attempt, the
statement said.  Poor Condition  The body was raised along with the aircraft seat it was
attached to and appeared in poor condition, police said. A
decision has yet to be taken on the recovery of more bodies, and
“very strong uncertainties remain” about its feasibility,
according to the French police statement.  If investigators hope to glean clues about how the plane
struck the water, more bodies may have to be recovered, said
Derrick Pounder, a forensic pathologist professor at  Scotland ’s
Dundee University who has worked on other air accidents.  “On a scientific level, I don’t think it’s helpful to
recover one body to interpret what happened,” Pounder said.
“It’s the pattern of injuries to all passengers that is used to
make the interpretation.”  While automated radio transmissions from the plane
suggested its airspeed sensors failed in bad weather, triggering
a series of system breakdowns in the minutes before the crash,
France’s BEA air accident investigator says the precise chain of
events cannot be understood without more information. After
submersion in seawater for two years, there is no assurance the
data in the flight recorders can still be fully retrieved.  Lack of Oxygen  Among the victims of the accident were 58 passengers from
 Brazil , 61 from France, 26 from  Germany , and other nationalities
including travelers from  China ,  South Korea  and the U.S. The
cold salt water and lack of oxygen and light at the depth of the
wreck probably helped preserve the bodies, according to members
of the salvage team.  The bodies are likely “reasonably well preserved,” said
Pounder, the Dundee University professor. The pressure of the
water will have forced out all air from the body and that,
together with the cold, would stop the action of bacteria that
cause bodies to decay, he said  The recovery work is being carried out by an unmanned
submarine equipped with high-resolution cameras and two robotic
arms, operated by underwater engineering company Phoenix
International Holdings Inc. The basket on the sub can lift a
load of 200 kilograms (440 pounds).  Manslaughter Charges  The BEA, which is heading the crash inquiry, said last
month that decisions on the recovery of victims’ bodies would be
taken by legal authorities. Airbus, the plane’s manufacturer,
and Air France,  Europe ’s largest airline, are facing
manslaughter charges in relation to the accident.  Bodies have been raised from the sea after previous air
accidents, although never from such depths. The U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board recovered all victims from TWA
flight 800, which crashed off  Long Island  in 1996, and from
EgyptAir 990, which went down 60 miles from Nantucket in 1999.  Following retrieval of the flight recorders, investigators
still plan to pull up several dozen pieces of the wreckage to
help study the accident, BEA President Jean-Paul Troadec said in
a May 3 interview. Photos released to the public show parts of
the landing gear and the fuselage with window sections.  Should the corpses ultimately remain at the bottom of the
Atlantic, families and friends of the deceased may struggle more
to come to terms with their loss, said Robert Jensen, the chief
executive officer of Kenyon International Emergency Services, a
Houston-based company that helps airlines handle accidents and
assists in earthquakes and tsunami.  “Their life doesn’t move on,” Jensen said. “It stays as
it was from the night of the plane crash. The best practice
seems to be recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  