-- 
AirAsia X Wants to Increase Japan Flights, Routes, CEO Says

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 
2011-05-04T04:56:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/airasia-x-wants-to-increase-japan-flights-routes-ceo-says.html
Azran Osman Rani, Chief Executive
Officer of AirAsia X Bhd., comments on recovering  Japan  travel
demand, fuel prices and its planned initial public offering.  AirAsia X, the long-haul unit of  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
budget carrier  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , carried 640,000 passengers in the
first quarter of this year. That’s up 56.5 percent from a year
earlier, the Selangor, Malaysia-based airline said in an e-
mailed statement.  Azran made these comments in an interview with Bloomberg TV:  On Japan travel demand:  “We started Japan in December last year. Demand did reduce
substantially after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami and what
followed. Interestingly, we’ve now seen load factors and
passenger numbers recover towards the end of April and early May.
We definitely see Japan having turned the corner and we are very
eager to apply for additional rights to add more flights to
 Tokyo  and hopefully  Osaka  as well.”  On AirAsia’s decision to implement fuel surcharges from May 3:  “You never know where fuel prices are going to head in the
next few months. So it does give us a bit of a cushion. Yes, we
do hedge, but probably not as substantially as other airlines.
For us, the biggest strategy is being very distinctive in being
the world’s most efficient fuel-volume consumer rather than
hedging, because no airline in the world has achieved any
sustainable competitive advantage from a fuel hedge policy.”  On its planned IPO:  “We are in the midst of going through very thick proposal
documents from advisers and underwriters. We are expecting to
probably look at first half of next year in terms of a listing
timeframe.  “Realistically the primary listing base will probably
still be in  Kuala Lumpur . We are evaluating an option to have a
dual listing in another exchange. Whether that is Hong Kong,  New
York  or  London , those are all being evaluated. It all depends
whether there really is an investor pool that we won’t be able
to tap if we were only listed in Kuala Lumpur.”  On AirAsia X’s first-quarter load factor:  “We closed it at 81 percent, which is six percentage
points ahead of the same quarter last year. Every single route
that we flew during the first quarter last year compared to this
year has seen a significant increase. Load factor has been
strong, top line has been growing proportionately at 56 percent.
The profits are coming in. There is really a lot of growth
especially here in Asia Pacific.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in  Hong Kong  at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  