-- 
Allianz Posts Drop in First-Quarter Net Income, Confirms Full-Year Target

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-05-04T11:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/allianz-posts-drop-in-first-quarter-net-income-confirms-full-year-target.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest insurer,
maintained its full-year earnings forecast after profit declined
about 44 percent in the first quarter following the earthquake
in Japan and other natural disasters.  Net income was “slightly above” 900 million euros ($1.3
billion), compared with 1.6 billion euros a year earlier, the
Munich-based company said in a statement today. Profit missed
the 966 million-euro average estimate of seven analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Lower realized gains on investments “against the
background of volatile capital markets” also weighed on
earnings, the insurer said.  Allianz, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann,
56, is holding its annual shareholder meeting in Munich today.
The insurer forecasts operating profit of 7.5 billion euros to
8.5 billion euros this year, compared with 8.2 billion euros in
2010. The company, which said on April 8 that its goal won’t be
endangered by the  Japan  earthquake and tsunami, expects claims
of about 320 million euros from the catastrophe, bringing total
costs for natural disasters in the quarter to 750 million euros.  “Although we spent almost 200 million euros more on
natural catastrophes than in the same quarter of the previous
year, we were able to keep our operating profit close to the
previous year’s level,” Diekmann said in the statement. “We
are on track to achieve our operating profit target for 2011.”  Natural Disasters  Operating profit was almost unchanged at “nearly” 1.7
billion euros in the first quarter, the insurer said. Net income
in the year-earlier period had been boosted by a 522 million-
euro gain from selling a stake in Chinese lender  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd.  “The most important published preliminary figure is in our
view the operating profit, which is better than we had
expected,” Thorsten Wenzel, an analyst at DZ Bank AG in
 Frankfurt , wrote in a note to clients today.  A series of natural disasters has made the first quarter of
2011 insurers’ most costly start to a year. Total insured losses
from disasters including the Japan quake and tsunami, floods and
a cyclone in Australia and an earthquake in  New Zealand , are
expected to top $52.6 billion in the period, compared with $40.6
billion for the whole of 2010,  according  to Aon Benfield, the
reinsurance broker of Chicago-based Aon Corp.  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, said on April 20
it will report a “clearly negative” first-quarter result. The
Munich-based company in March scrapped its 2.4 billion-euro
profit target for this year as it estimated about 1.5 billion
euros in claims from Japan.  Shares Decline  Allianz is scheduled to report detailed first-quarter
results on May 12 before the German stock market opens. The
shares fell 1.4 percent to 104.85 euros at 1:02 p.m. in
Frankfurt. They are up 18 percent this year, compared with a 10
percent gain in the Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance Index.  The company expects to hold a stake of “slightly below” 5
percent in Commerzbank AG after the Frankfurt-based lender has
completed its capital measures, Paul Achleitner, Allianz’s
finance head, said today, adding that the holding is considered
a financial investment.  Commerzbank said last month that it’s planning to repay
about 14.3 billion euros of government aid by June by selling
new shares and using excess capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  