-- 
Alstom Halves Dividend After Profit Falls on U.S., Europe Slump

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-05-04T10:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/alstom-halves-dividend-after-2011-profit-falls-62-on-expenses.html
Alstom SA (ALO) , the world’s third-largest
power-equipment maker, cut its dividend by half after reporting
a 62 percent drop in annual profit on dwindling orders from
Europe and U.S. utilities as well as overhaul costs.  Net income fell to 462 million euros ($687 million) in the
year ended March 31 from 1.22 billion euros a year earlier, hurt
by costs tied to the acquisition of a power-grid unit from Areva
SA in June 2010 and cost-cutting measures, the company, based in
Levallois-Perret near Paris, said in a statement today. Alstom
proposed a dividend of 62 cents per share, down from 1.24 euros.  Alstom, which also makes train cars and power-transmission
equipment, is cutting jobs in Europe and the U.S., where demand
is slowly recovering from the global financial crisis. Chief
Executive Officer Patrick Kron is investing and forging
partnerships in fast-growing countries such as  India ,  China  and
 Russia  to tap increased infrastructure needs.  “The activity is much more buoyant in emerging markets,”
Kron said in a presentation to analysts. “We need to continue
to adapt and develop our localization,” the CEO said, and
“adapt the capacity to lower demand and improve competitiveness
in mature markets.”  New orders rose 28 percent to 19.1 billion euros, including
the purchase of the Areva unit, and 5 percent excluding the
acquisition. Emerging markets accounted for about 60 percent of
orders booked, up from 35 percent.  Stable Margin  Alstom’s operating margin, which narrowed to 7.5 percent
from 9.1 percent, will remain in a range of 7 percent to
8 percent of revenue this year, Kron reiterated today.  The company’s stock fell as much as 3.3 percent in Paris
trading and was down 0.3 percent at 43.60 euros as of 12:30
p.m., paring the gain this year to 21 percent.  In a bid to retain an operating margin of at least
7 percent for the two fiscal years through March 2012, Kron
is cutting about 4,000 jobs at sites that make coal- and gas-
fired power equipment in  Europe  and the U.S. as utilities delay
investments. He’s also planning to eliminate 1,380 jobs at
Alstom’s transport unit in Europe.  Alstom had charges of about 550 million euros due to Areva
acquisition costs and restructuring in the transport and power
units, Kron told journalists. Restructuring charges should fall
back to a “normative” level of 50 million euros to 100 million
euros in coming years, he said.  Dividend Direction  Assuming that Alstom meets its operating margin target, the
company should have higher profit and more cash available for
dividends, Kron said. He declined to estimate future dividend
ratios.  Operating income fell 12 percent to 1.57 billion euros in
the fiscal year, the company said. Unicredit analysts had
predicted operating profit of 1.5 billion euros. Sales climbed
6 percent to 20.9 billion euros. Excluding the purchase of
Areva’s grid business, sales declined by 12 percent.  Revenue should be stable “overall” in the fiscal year
ending March 2012, Kron said. The CEO said he expects orders to
beat last year’s total and has “hope” that the book-to-bill
ratio will exceed 1 in the period.  A contract for a power plant in  Estonia , whose financing is
being scrutinized by the European Union, may be booked this
year, he said. Alstom aims to sell about 15 gas turbines this
year, up from 10 last year, the CEO said.  Alstom trails General Electric Co., based in Fairfield,
 Connecticut , and  Germany ’s Siemens AG in making power equipment.
The French company also competes with companies such as Siemens
and  Canada ’s Bombardier Inc. in train manufacturing, and with
Siemens and  Switzerland ’s ABB Ltd. on power transmission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 