-- 
Hamas, Fatah Conclude Cairo Accord Ending Four Years of Political Division

-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-05-04T12:28:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/hamas-fatah-conclude-cairo-accord-ending-four-years-of-political-division.html
Leaders of the Palestinian Authority
and the Islamic Hamas movement concluded an agreement to end an
almost four-year rift and establish a joint government, a move
that Israeli leaders say will harm prospects for peace.  Mahmoud Abbas , the authority’s president and chief of its
ruling Fatah faction, and Khalid Mashaal, head of the Hamas
movement, were presented with a copy of the signed accord by
Egyptian officials today. An alliance between the two groups
ruptured in 2007, leaving Fatah in control of the  West Bank  and
Hamas ruling Gaza.  “We have turned the page from this black internal
division,” Abbas said at the ceremony. “We may differ, and we
often do, but we still arrived at a minimum level of
understanding.”  The reconciliation agreement follows a series of West Bank
and Gaza rallies -- inspired by popular protests that led to the
toppling of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and Tunisian
President Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali -- in which Palestinians
called for an end to the division. Abbas is asking foreign
countries to recognize a Palestinian state and has said a united
leadership will help achieve that goal.  “The people want unity even if that’s uncomfortable for
 Israel  and the U.S.,” said Mkhaimer Abusada, a political
scientist at Al Azhar University in Gaza City. “Among the
lessons of the Arab spring is that it doesn’t work for the
Palestinians to boycott or isolate Hamas.”  Joint Government  The accord calls for the establishment of a joint
government in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and elections within
a year. Fatah and Hamas reached an agreement on April 27 that
paved the way for today’s ceremony. In 2007, Hamas ousted forces
loyal to Abbas from Gaza a year after winning parliamentary
elections.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu left yesterday on
a trip to  Europe  with a public appeal to Abbas not to sign,
saying it would deal a “severe blow” to Middle East peace
efforts. Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by the
U.S., European Union and Israel.  The Israeli leader, who meets U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  today, will travel to Paris tomorrow for a meeting with
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  aimed at tempering European
support for a Palestinian state, particularly one that contains
Hamas, Netanyahu told his Cabinet May 1.  Tax Revenue   Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said that same day that
Israel would withhold tax revenue collected on behalf of the
Palestinians until it was certain the funds wouldn’t end up in
the hands of Hamas. Hamas hasn’t participated in peace talks
with the Jewish state, which it refuses to recognize.  The U.S. has said it might reconsider aid to the
Palestinians should the reconciliation lead to a unity
government that flouts conditions for a peace agreement with
Israel, including its right to exist.  The  Palestinian Authority  is supposed to receive almost
$600 million from the U.S. this year, according to the State
Department. Hamas receives millions of dollars from  Iran  each
year, according to Hamas leader Mahmoud Zahar, who said in an
interview last November that he brings much of the cash into
Gaza inside his suitcase after diplomatic visits to Iran.  Abbas said last week that Fatah, which seeks a negotiated
peace agreement with Israel leading to the establishment of a
Palestinian state in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and east
Jerusalem, will set the policy in any unity government with
Hamas.  Cabinet Formed  “A Cabinet will be formed in the coming days,” chief
Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat said by telephone from Cairo.
“The main thing is that the new Cabinet will have to stick to
Palestine Liberation Organization commitments including the ones
concerning Israel.”  Abbas said that Hamas won’t be asked to recognize Israel.  “We will form a technocratic government,” Abbas told
reporters yesterday in Cairo. “Hamas does not need to recognize
Israel.”  Negotiations between Abbas and Netanyahu fell apart last
year after Israel refused to extend a partial 10-month
construction freeze in Jewish settlements in the West Bank.
Abbas has said he will resume negotiations only when all
building is halted.  Serious Pressure  “Participation in the Palestinian government and the
holding of elections will also create more serious pressure on
Hamas to work for quiet in the  Gaza Strip , which in turn can
help advance the diplomatic process,” Shlomo Brom, head of the
program on Israel-Palestinian relations at the Tel Aviv-based
Institute for National Security Studies, said in a paper he
circulated by e-mail on the agreement.  The unity agreement may be a step toward the Palestinian
Authority seeking United Nations recognition of an independent
state if negotiations with Israel, broken off last September,
aren’t resumed.  France  is considering recognition of a Palestinian state as
“one of the options we are reflecting on with our European
partners,” said French Foreign Ministry spokesman  Bernard Valero .  In a prelude to today’s ceremony, leaders of 11 Palestinian
groups separately signed the Egypt-mediated accord between Hamas
and Fatah.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at  at
 jferziger@bloomberg.net 
Saud Abu Ramadan in Cairo through the  Jerusalem  newsroom at
   sramadan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  