-- 
Manchester City Wants 50 Million Pounds for Carlos Tevez: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-04T10:06:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/manchester-city-wants-50-million-pounds-for-carlos-tevez-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Price of Tevez  Manchester City  won’t let  Carlos Tevez  leave this summer
for less than 50 million pounds ($83 million), the  Daily
Telegraph  reported.  The Argentine joined the club two years ago for a transfer
fee of about 32 million pounds and a weekly salary of 160,000
pounds.  Derby Targeting Owen  Manchester United  striker Michael Owen may move to
Championship side  Derby County ,  Metro  reported.  Former England star Owen is currently the fourth-choice
striker at United, and it seems unlikely he’ll be offered a new
contract at Old Trafford, the paper said.  AC Milan’s Plan  AC Milan  may try to buy  Tottenham Hotspur  winger Gareth Bale this summer after owner  Silvio Berlusconi  promised fans his
financial commitment to the Italian club would continue, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  “My family has invested an average of 50 million euros
($74 million) a season in Milan,” the paper quoted the Italian
prime minister as saying. “That figure was 70 million euros
last year and I promise to continue with my costly habit of
giving gifts to the Milan fans.”  Milan was knocked out of the Champions League by Tottenham
in the round of 16.  Bale to Stay?  Professional Footballers’ Association player of the year
Bale wants to stay at White Hart Lane this summer even amid
interest from clubs such as AC Milan, Barcelona and Chelsea, the  
Mirror  reported.  “We have a great young team and a great manager,” the
paper quoted Bale, 21, as saying. “I believe we’re going
places. We’re a club on the up with a new training ground and
plans for a new stadium. We’ve got a bright future and I want to
be part of it.”  Delia Statue?  Norwich  should build a statue for television chef and co-
owner Delia Smith after the club got promoted to the Premier
League, the  Sun  quoted Chief Executive David McNally as saying.  Smith and her husband Michael Wynn-Jones have invested 12
million pounds in the club and twice rescued the team from going
into administration, a form of bankruptcy, the newspaper said.  Norwich is now certain to get 88 million pounds over the
next five years, even if the team is relegated next season, the
Sun said.  “There should be statues for Delia and Michael at Carrow
Road for their commitment,” the newspaper quoted McNally as
saying. “We’ve never had any money and we won’t know what to do
with it. But it’s a great problem to have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 