-- 
Manchester United Beats Schalke to Reach European Champions League Final

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/manchester-united-beats-schalke-to-reach-european-champions-league-final.html
Manchester United  beat Schalke 4-1 to
advance to the Champions League soccer final against Barcelona.  Antonio Valencia and Darron Gibson had first-half goals and
Anderson scored twice in the second half last night at Old
Trafford as United completed a 6-1 win over the two-game series
to reach the final for the third time in four seasons.  United and Barcelona, both three-time winners of Europe’s
elite club competition, will meet May 28 at Wembley Stadium in
 London . Both teams won the title for the first time at Wembley
-- United in 1968 and Barcelona in 1992 -- and Barcelona beat
United 2-0 win in the 2009 final in Rome.  “Barcelona plays extremely good football and it’s going to
be difficult, they showed that in the 2009 final,” United
goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar told ITV. “We have to make sure we
learned our lesson from that one and be better prepared.”  After a 2-0 win in the first leg in  Germany , and with a
game against Chelsea over the weekend that will help determine
the Premier League title, United manager  Alex Ferguson  rested
first-team regulars. Van der Sar and Valencia were the only
starters from the opening game, while  Wayne Rooney  and  Rio Ferdinand  weren’t even among the substitutes.  ‘Vindicated’  “They did me proud,” said Ferguson, whose team last won
the European Cup in 2008. “The fact that it’s such an important
game does create a bit of doubt in your mind of ‘Am I doing the
right thing?’ but I’m glad we were vindicated.”  Neither team did much in attack until United took the lead
in the 26th minute. Gibson’s pass sent Valencia through and he
slid a shot past goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer .  Gibson increased the lead to 2-0, and 4-0 overall, when
Neuer deflected his shot in off the goalpost in the 32nd minute.
Schalke’s Jose Manuel Jurado scored three minutes later after a
deflected ball fell to him in the area.  Valencia had another chance moments later, which Neuer came
off his line to block. Neuer made a one-handed save to deny Nani
early in the second half and also stopped Anderson’s attempt.  United defender Chris Smalling was then ruled offside when
he scored in the 71st minute. Anderson added the third goal less
than a minute later and completed the scoring in the 77th minute
as United extended its home unbeaten streak to 30 matches
overall.  “I’ve said it many times before that we should have done
better in  Europe  over the years and I think we’re getting closer
to that,” said Ferguson, who will coach his fourth final.
“This team can win the cup. It’s full of great desire and
determination.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 