-- 
Manchester United to Raise Ticket Prices by One Pound a Seat Next Season

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-04T14:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/manchester-united-to-raise-ticket-prices-by-one-pound-a-seat-next-year.html
English Premier League soccer leader
 Manchester United  will raise ticket prices by a pound a seat
next season after freezing the cost this campaign.  The cost will rise 3.7 percent to 28 pounds ($46.30) for
the cheapest adult ticket, while the highest-cost seat will be
boosted by 2 percent to 50 pounds a game, the team said today in
an e-mailed statement. The increase will account for a 2.5
percentage-point rise in U.K. sales tax, the team said.  Last season the club’s owners, the Glazer family, faced a
backlash from supporters about the way the team was run. Fans
questioned the debt the Americans used to secure a 790 million-
pound takeover in 2005, and criticized seat prices. Ticket costs
at Old Trafford, the Premier League’s largest venue, have risen
an average of 5.8 percent since the Glazers’ buyout, compared
with an average 5.9 percent increase during the previous six
years, the club says.  “Fans have seen prices rise 55 percent in the seasons
since the Glazers took over and at a time when the club has been
enjoying continued commercial success, something they seem more
than happy to crow about, along with more than 100 million
pounds cash sitting in the bank unspent, they want to take yet
more from ordinary supporters, many of whom are struggling in
difficult economic conditions,” Duncan Drasdo, chief executive
of the Manchester United Supporters Trust said in a statement.  United is trying to win a record 19th English championship
and may reach the Champions League final after a semifinal
second-leg match at home to  Germany ’s Schalke tonight. It holds
a 2-0 lead from the first leg.  VAT Increase  The team said the cost covers a boost in the value-added-
tax to 20 percent from 17.5 percent and didn’t include higher
energy and player salary costs. The club has also, after
consulting with fans groups, agreed to cap tickets for 16 to 17-
year-olds at 20 pounds, so they don’t face a sudden increase
from the 10 pounds they paid for so-called junior tickets.
Senior tickets will cost 20 pounds.  Earlier this week, third-place Arsenal faced supporter
anger after announcing a 6.5 percent rise. The north London club
was the first to charge 100 pounds for a match ticket.  “I share your concerns that ordinary fans are being priced
out of live football,” Arsenal Chief Executive Officer Ivan Gazidis said in a  letter  to the Arsenal Supporters Trust, a
group representing some the club’s small shareholders. “This is
bad for the continued health of the game and is driven primarily
by escalating and ultimately unsustainable levels of spending on
transfer fees and salaries.”  Gazidis said the club was more reliant on income from its
stadium than its “major competitors” and Arsenal was trying to
boost its commercial operation in order to reduce the reliance
on fans who attend matches at the 60,000-seat Emirates Stadium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  