-- 
Applied Materials Will Buy Varian for $4.9 Billion

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-05-05T23:35:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/applied-materials-to-buy-varian-semiconductor-for-4-9-billion-in-cash.html
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the largest
producer of chipmaking equipment, agreed to pay $4.9 billion in
cash for  Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates Inc. (VSEA) , buying
its way back into a business where it had lost ground.  The company will pay $63 a share, a 55 percent markup over
yesterday’s closing price,  Santa Clara , California-based Applied
Materials said in a statement today. The merger was approved by
the boards of both companies.  The transaction gets Applied Materials back into the
business of ion-implantation machinery -- a stage in the
creation of all computer chips -- where it had lost market share
to Varian, said Patrick Ho, an analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
in  Dallas . Varian’s sales more than doubled last year, outpacing
Applied Materials’ growth. The deal also brings technology used
to make solar panels and light-emitting diodes, or LEDs.  “You’re getting a very high-quality company,” said Ho,
who recommends buying Applied Materials shares. “They basically
lost all their market share to Varian.”  Varian, based in Gloucester,  Massachusetts , gained $20.81,
or 51 percent, to $61.36 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. Applied Materials, up 7.4 percent this year,
fell 15 cents, or 1 percent, to $15.09 today.  The transaction may help the company benefit from resurgent
spending by semiconductor manufacturers, said Adrien Bommelaer,
a London-based analyst at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP. “The
addressable market is now very strong.”  More Deals  Companies worldwide have proposed $833 billion of mergers and
acquisitions so far in 2011, on pace for $2.45 trillion this
year. That would be a 10 percent increase over the $2.23
trillion of deals in 2010. Companies struck $678 billion of
transactions during the same period last year.  The Varian deal would be the biggest in the semiconductor-
equipment market in the past five years, according to Bloomberg
data. Applied Materials is the industry’s most acquisitive
company, with 13 announced deals in that time frame. In 2009, it
agreed to purchase Semitool Inc. for about $364 million, helping
it upgrade technology used in the preparation of silicon wafers.  In 37 industry acquisitions, the median multiple based on
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
paid was 11.8 times. Applied Materials agreed to pay 13.4 times
Ebitda based on analysts’ estimates for Varian’s earnings in the
current year, according to Bloomberg data.  Right Price?  “The price is full,”  Joel Levington , a managing director
at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York, said in an
e-mail. “But we believe that AMAT has the financial capacity to
manage this transaction without materially impairing its  credit
quality , while strategically improving its business position.”  Applied Materials will be able to rapidly pay down the debt
associated with the deal because it has about $2.7 billion of
cash on hand and an estimated $1.2 billion or more of excess
 cash flow  coming this year, Levington said.  The company’s A3 long-term credit rating won’t be affected
by the acquisition, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Applied Materials Chief Executive Officer Mike Splinter has
worked to diversify the company’s sources of income and is now
supplying machinery used to make solar panels out of silicon
wafers. Varian had net income of $160 million on sales of $832
million in the fiscal year ended in September.  “Varian is a great fit for our strategy to profitably grow
share in our core semiconductor business with best-in-class
technology and talent,” Splinter said today. “The pace of
product innovation is accelerating, requiring devices that are
more mobile, more connected and more personalized.”  Rosy Forecasts  Chipmakers are projecting an uptick in sales this year.
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest semiconductor producer, topped
analysts’ estimates with its second-quarter revenue forecast
last month. Infineon Technologies AG,  Europe ’s second-largest
chipmaker, raised its full-year forecast yesterday for the fifth
time since the beginning of 2010.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
advised Varian on the deal. Applied Materials was advised by
Morgan Stanley and Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley
agreed to provide a one-year bridge loan of as much as $2
billion to help pay for the acquisition, Applied Materials said
today in a regulatory filing. The company also said it has
commitments from the banks to raise a four-year senior unsecured
revolving loan of $1.5 billion, which will replace a $1 billion
 credit line  expiring in January.  Bridge facilities are typically used to backstop bond
offerings, and companies don’t draw on them. In a revolving
credit facility, money can be borrowed again once it’s repaid.  If Varian backs out of the deal under certain conditions,
it would owe Applied Materials a $147 million breakup fee,
according to the filing. If Applied Materials terminates the
transaction because it can’t pass antitrust scrutiny, the
company would pay $200 million to Varian.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  