-- 
Aquarius Gains Most in Nine Months in London on Northam Assets Acquisition

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-05-04T09:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/aquarius-platinum-to-pay-northam-180-million-for-portion-of-booysendal.html
Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , the fourth-
largest producer of the metal, rose the most in more than nine
months in  London  trading on plans to boost resources with a 1.2
billion-rand ($181 million) purchase from  Northam Platinum Ltd. (NHM)   Aquarius rose as much as 8.4 percent, the most since July
20. The company, based in London, will buy Booysendal South
assets in  South Africa , giving it access to about 31.1 million
ounces of platinum and related metals, and increasing resources
by about 24 percent, it said in a statement today.  The deal follows Aquarius’s acquisition of Afarak Platinum
Ltd. this month as Chief Executive Officer Stuart Murray seeks
to add deposits and secure future output. Northam will also gain
funding to bring its Booysendal mine into production as it seeks
to replace its aging Zondagsfontein operation.  “Aquarius has always been criticized for having a lack of
resource growth,” Michael Starke, a mining analyst at Edison
Investment Research, said by phone from London. “With these
acquisitions they’re showing an ability to replace ounces
mined” and Aquarius bought “about as cheaply as they could.”  The company rose 7.1 percent to 359.7 pence by 10:29 a.m.
in London after touching 364.1 pence. Northam Platinum gained
1.9 percent to 44.34 rand in Johannesburg.  The Booysendal South deposits are next to Aquarius’s
Everest mine on the Bushveld complex, which contains the world’s
richest platinum reserves, in the north of the country.  The world’s largest producers, Anglo Platinum Ltd., Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. and  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , which all tap the
complex, are boosting output as prices climb. Platinum prices
jumped 21 percent last year and 57 percent in 2009.  ‘Absolutely Obvious’  “This is one of those deals in the platinum industry where
it’s absolutely obvious to anyone who looks at it,” Gavin Mackay, business development executive at Aquarius, said by
phone from London today. “The synergies are just so obvious.”  The proposal may enable Aquarius to boost output at Everest
by about 20 percent in about three years with an investment that
is “very modest by industry standards,” Mackay said. Expansion
options will be studied in the next 18 to 24 months, he said.  It’s a “hugely positive and long awaited event,” Liberum
Capital Ltd. analysts said in a note, adding Aquarius’s resource
base will nearly equal Lonmin’s at about 180 million ounces.  In a separate agreement, Aquarius will assist Northam with
access to infrastructure services, including power, water and
waste, from Everest, Northam said, adding that could speed up
development of the second phase of its Booysendal expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  