-- 
Harvard’s Ignatieff Returns to Classroom as Canada Liberals Seek Recovery

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-04T04:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/harvard-s-ignatieff-returns-to-classroom-as-canada-liberals-seek-recovery.html
Canada’s once-dominant  Liberals  are
searching for a political message and a leader to deliver it, as
 Michael Ignatieff  stepped down as party head yesterday after
taking them to their worst electoral defeat.  Ignatieff, 63, said he hopes to return to teaching after
losing even his own district in yesterday’s national election,
in which Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper won a
majority of seats in the House of Commons. The Liberals will
choose an interim leader to head a party that has lost support
in the last three votes.  “There isn’t a lot of hope the Liberal Party can ever win
a majority again” without a “radical” step like a merger with
another party “or a leader that will turn a lot of heads,”
said Andrea Perella, director of the Laurier Institute for the
Study of Public Opinion and Policy in Waterloo, Ontario.  Possible replacements for the former politics professor at
 Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts  include ex-
Ontario Premier Bob Rae; Justin Trudeau, the son of former prime
minister Pierre Trudeau; one-time leadership candidate Martha
Hall Findlay, and New Brunswick lawmaker Dominic LeBlanc.  “Beyond the names is someone who could not just rebuild
the organization but present a vision of what they represent,”
Richard Nimijean, who teaches Canadian Studies at  Carleton
University  in Ottawa. “There’s no obvious individual that we
can all name that would serve the role of that leader that can
turn heads and upstage Harper.”  Trudeau and Leblanc have already cautioned against the idea
that a simple change of leadership will be enough to restore
Liberal popularity.  Lowest in History  The Liberals were reduced to 34 seats in the 308-seat House
of Commons, down from the 77 in the 2008 election, according to
preliminary  Elections Canada  figures. In the 2000 election, they
held 172 of 301 seats. Their seat total and share of the vote --
19 percent -- were the lowest since  Canada  was founded in 1867
for a party that had either won or finished second in all of
Canada’s 41 general elections.  “The Liberals are in completely unknown territory,” said
Nikita Nanos, an Ottawa-based pollster and president of Nanos
Research. “They considered themselves Canada’s natural
governing party: not anymore.”  The Conservatives won their first majority government with
Harper as leader by winning 167 seats, while the  New Democrats ,
led by  Jack Layton , 60, surged past the Liberals to become the
largest opposition party, with a record 102 seats.  Reduced Opportunities  With the reduced representation in the House of Commons
come reduced opportunities to raise issues in the daily question
period, making it harder for the Liberals to attract media
attention. Harper, 52, has also pledged to eliminate a system of
publicly funded financing of political parties, which could give
 the Conservatives  an edge in fundraising.  “The Conservatives have a lot of positives; its
fundraising machine” and its constituency associations, Perella
said.  Ignatieff was handcuffed by a lack of money to counter pre-
election Conservative advertisements that portrayed him as a
foreign elitist who was “just visiting” Canada.  Ignatieff was running his first campaign since taking over
in May 2009 from Stephane Dion, who led the party to its
previous worst-ever showing and was the first Liberal leader in
a century who didn’t become prime minister. Dion also had been
the target of negative Conservative advertising.  ‘Stop, Pause, Think’  “The Liberals really do have to stop, pause, think about
where they are going to position themselves,”, said Kathy Brock, a political scientist at Queen’s University in Kingston,
Ontario. ‘ The  Liberal Party  hasn’t been a national party for
some time,” she said. “It has to really show they can reach
out to the west, care about their issues, reach out to  Quebec .”  Harper’s Conservatives have spent the last few elections
draining Liberal support in rural Canada, and among immigrant
and religious groups in the Toronto area that had voted Liberal.  The Conservatives were also able to point to the recent
economic record. Canada has the fastest growing economy with the
lowest deficits among Group of Seven nations. The currency has
been the strongest in the G-7 over the past two years.
 Government bonds  have returned 5.5 percent over the past year as
of May 3, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data,
compared with a 2.9 percent average for the G-7. While banks
elsewhere required bailouts to recover from the global credit
crisis, Canada banks received no public money.  ‘More Polarization’  The nature of the election result may compound the
rebuilding challenge for the Liberals, which Ignatieff described
in his campaign speeches as a party of the center. The outcome
“makes you wonder if we are moving more towards a two-party
system with more polarization,” Brock said, “With a split like
this, the left-center is always going to be out of office.”  Still, the Liberals have been able to recover before from
major losses, Nimijean said. He cited policy conferences in the
1960s and the 1990s after Liberal defeats that crafted new
policies and paved the way for future majorities.  “If there’s one silver lining in this we know there isn’t
going to be an election for four years” so the Liberals can
reorganize, Nimijean said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 