-- 
Laser Spine Surgery More Profitable Than Google Sees Complaints

-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-05-04T21:39:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/laser-spine-surgery-more-profitable-than-google-sees-surge-in-complaints.html
Bonnie Balch searched online for a
back surgeon and found a pitch she called irresistible: Laser
Spine Institute LLC promised to ease her pain and have her out
the door in a few hours.  Instead, her October 2008 surgery at the Tampa, Florida-
based center left Balch incontinent, with a dangerous spinal
fluid leak, she said. Still in pain, she was off work for almost
a year and needed a second surgery elsewhere to get relief.  “They should have told me they couldn’t help me,” said
Balch, 63, a Longmont, Colorado, flight attendant. “They are in
it to make money.” Her insurer paid Laser Spine $90,176 for the
operation, a follow-up procedure and some subsequent care.  Balch sued Laser Spine, alleging malpractice, in December
2009, one of 15 cases filed against the company in the past 18
months.  The lawsuits reflect growing complaints about a new area of
medicine: high-volume, doctor-owned spinal surgery centers that
market directly to patients on  Google Inc. ’s search site and
others. For Laser Spine, the business model generated a 34.3
percent net profit margin from 2006 through 2009 -- eclipsing
even the Internet giant’s 24.8 percent for that period.  Laser Spine and its competitors, part of a boom in
outpatient clinics operated by entrepreneurial physicians, sell
a high-tech version of procedures that have been around for
years -- despite a lack of independent research to show that
their variations lead to better outcomes. The company commands
higher prices than laser-less rivals, driving up the cost of
health care. Its number of malpractice claims per 1,000
surgeries is several times the rate for all U.S. outpatient
surgery centers, based on insurance industry data.  ‘Already Available’  “It strikes me as somewhat of a scam,” says Jeffrey Arle,
a neurosurgeon at the Lahey Clinic near Boston who has treated
former Laser Spine patients. He’s one of nine surgeons from
across the U.S. who told Bloomberg News that the company’s laser
surgery was either unnecessary or inappropriate for many
patients who get it. “My conclusion is they are offering
patients a version of what is already available in the regular
medical care system.”  Laser Spine’s in-house surveys show positive outcomes for
more than 87 percent of patients, though the institute has had
trouble recruiting academics to examine those results, said
Jimmy St. Louis, the company’s chief operations officer. Its
staff screens those who respond to its ads rigorously, he said,
and only 10 percent of them end up getting an operation. The
company’s standards for safety and quality of care help
determine its pricing, said Dotty Bollinger, its chief medical
operations officer.  Works Every Day  “We know it works,” Bollinger said of the surgery. “We
see it every day.” Laser Spine declined to discuss Balch’s
claims, which it has denied in court filings.  Laser Spine often charges $30,000 for each procedure,
according to interviews with several patients and copies of
billing records. That’s twice as much as  Aetna Inc. , the third-
largest U.S. health insurer, will pay for laser-less surgery.
It’s more than twice the average reimbursement for spine
procedures at Regent Surgical Health, a Westchester, Illinois-
based company that operates 15 outpatient centers, according to
Matt Lau, Regent’s corporate controller.  Laser Spine’s surgeons, some of whom are investors in the
6-year-old company, perform as many as 5,000 operations a year,
using small tubes called endoscopes that are equipped with video
cameras. They insert the lasers separately, through catheters.  Out of Bankruptcy  Founder James St. Louis, 56, was just a year out of
personal bankruptcy when he began seeking investors for the
company in 2003, court records show. Now he owns multimillion-
dollar homes in Pinellas County, Florida and Aspen, Colorado. He
declined an interview request.  The institute, which rewards employees with trips to the
Bahamas when they hit sales and customer-satisfaction targets,
has established surgical centers in Scottsdale, Arizona;
Philadelphia; and Oklahoma City as well as Tampa. It now bills
itself  on the web  as “the largest spine center in the world”
and it had sales last year of $109 million, says Jimmy St.
Louis, the COO and the founder’s son.  From 2006 through 2009, Laser Spine earned net income of
$98.9 million on revenue of $288 million, a 34.3 percent profit
margin, according to testimony that chief executive officer  Bill Horne  provided last year in a lawsuit. In that case,  Joe Samuel Bailey , an Arkansas businessman and the chairman of a rival
spine center, alleges that St. Louis stole his business plan.
St. Louis and Laser Spine have denied that allegation in court.  Distributions to Investors  The company has distributed at least $77 million to a small
group of shareholders, according to an opening statement made by
Bailey’s lawyer in the same court case. Another document in the
case indicates that James St. Louis was slated to receive a 25
percent interest. That would entitle him to $19.25 million from
the distributions. Bollinger said the 25 percent figure is not
accurate. She would not disclose individual stakes.  Other investors include the private equity unit of Dallas
investment firm EFO Holdings LP, managed by  William Esping , and
two founders of  OSI Restaurant Partners LLC , whose properties
include Outback Steakhouse.  In 2009,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  valued Laser Spine at as
much as $428 million, as part of the company’s consideration of
an initial public offering, Horne testified in Bailey’s lawsuit.
Bollinger said in an e-mail that this estimate and others
provided by bankers were “rough guesses” and not reliable.  Aetna won’t cover operations at Laser Spine and some of its
competitors, citing a lack of research to confirm their safety
and effectiveness.  Cigna Corp. , the seventh largest U.S.
insurer, won’t pay for the laser portion of the surgery. Other
insurers provide less than full coverage.  Second Mortgages  Some patients, desperate for pain relief and a short
recovery period, say they’ve tapped retirement accounts or taken
out second mortgages to pay Laser Spine.  They’re not always satisfied with the results. Fifteen
former Laser Spine patients -- whose cases came up in court
records, in the institute’s materials and in online back-pain
forums -- said in interviews that their operations provided only
fleeting relief, or no relief at all, from their back pain.  The 15 malpractice claims since October 2009 came during a
period in which the company performed about 7,500 procedures,
based on its 2010 estimates. Nationally, outpatient surgery
centers received about six malpractice claims for every 20,000
surgeries, according to data from  Zurich North America , a
commercial property and casualty insurer.  Bleeding Internally  Balch and others say that after their operations at Laser
Spine they were told to get dressed and leave -- though Balch
had suffered a spinal fluid leak and another patient was
bleeding internally from two lacerated arteries, according to
records in two malpractice suits. A third went to a hospital in
need of emergency surgery just hours later, according to a state
inspection report.  Laser Spine executives say they meet state regulatory
requirements. The company is a target for malpractice suits
because it’s fully insured, said Bollinger, the medical
operations officer. With regard to the claims in those suits,
the institute gave Bloomberg News a statement that said: “We do
not believe it is appropriate to dispute the facts at issue with
a patient in the public forum.”  Since July 2009, the institute has paid at least $2.8
million to seven patients to settle cases, according to the
Florida  Office of Insurance Regulation . Some of the cases were
settled at the behest of Laser Spine’s insurer, Lexington
Insurance Co., even though institute officials believed the care
they provided was appropriate, Bollinger said.  FDA Rules  While the Food and Drug Administration regulates the use of
drugs and medical devices, there’s virtually no federal
oversight for the effectiveness of surgical techniques.  “This is an issue with surgery generally,” said Robert
McDonough, head of clinical policy research and development at
Aetna. “Surgeons can introduce new procedures that might be
significantly different from established ones with no oversight
of the claims they make.”  Drug-makers’ ads -- including sponsored links that appear
in response to search-engine queries -- must disclose their
medications’ risks, under FDA rules. Ads for surgical techniques
have no similar rules. Rather than focusing on possible dangers
or complications, one Laser Spine magazine ad pitches the ease
of its procedures in a light-hearted way. It shows two topless
women in bikini bottoms, their backs to the viewer. One of them
wears a Band-Aid. “Who just had back surgery?” a caption asks.  Bollinger said the company informs patients about possible
complications at “many stages of their decision-making
process.”  Slow State Action  While state regulators have the authority to enforce
standards of care, they’ve been slow to act against one laser-
surgery practitioner, Lawrence Rothstein, said Gregory C.
Gibson, a Centerville, Ohio, lawyer. Gibson represents
plaintiffs in some of the 36 lawsuits that have been filed
against Rothstein since 2006; 18 of them are pending.  The  State Medical Board  of Ohio hasn’t acted on patients’
complaints about Rothstein, Gibson said. Joan Wehrle, a
spokeswoman for the board, declined to comment. The board keeps
complaints and investigations confidential until any
disciplinary action is taken, she said.  Rothstein, who developed his own laser-spine surgical
techniques, acknowledges there were some bad outcomes from his
surgery, said his brother, Steven Rothstein, a lawyer. He denies
that any were the result of substandard care, Steven Rothstein
said. Former patients allege various harms from their surgeries,
including seizures, incontinence and lost sexual function.
Several say they now need braces to walk.  Only License Needed  There’s little government oversight regarding which doctors
can do spine surgery -- all they need is a medical license,
whether their training is in orthopedics, foot surgery or
pediatrics. Rothstein is an anesthesiologist.  In 19 of the cases against him, plaintiffs also named North
American Spine, a Dallas-based company that uses Rothstein’s
techniques. While North American is paying Rothstein $3.5
million over five years to use his methods, it no longer allows
Rothstein to perform them, said Chris Lloyd, the company’s chief
executive officer. Lloyd cited “bad outcomes” from some of
Rothstein’s procedures.  North American Spine, which lists on its  website  two
surgery centers in Texas, plans new facilities in New Jersey,
Los Angeles, Mexico, Italy and Spain this year, Lloyd said in an
interview. It’s one of several Laser Spine competitors that
include the Laser Spine Center in New York and the Texas-based
Minimally Invasive Spine Institute.  Outside the Model  Laser Spine and other companies operate outside the
traditional model of medicine, in which patients are referred to
specialists by other doctors. Instead, the centers reach
customers directly via online marketing and seminars conducted
in hotel conference rooms. Laser Spine plans 26 such seminars
through the end of this month.  The number of U.S. Medicare-certified ambulatory surgery
centers -- those that focus on outpatient procedures -- grew to
5,260 in 2009 from 3,512 in 2002. All but 4 percent of them are
for-profit entities.  Like Laser Spine, 90 percent of U.S. ambulatory centers
include doctors as investors, according to the  Ambulatory
Surgery Center Association .  Doctor-investors may lower their standards for deciding
when to operate, according to researchers from the University of
Michigan in a study in the journal  Health Affairs  last year.
Looking at five common procedures at Florida surgery centers,
they found that once doctors became investors, the number of
surgeries they performed increased by 87 percent.  ‘Financial Incentives’  Doctors at the same facilities who weren’t investors
experienced little change in caseload during the same three-year
period, the study found. “The increased surgery use that
follows ownership acquisition may be attributable to the
financial incentives of the investment,” the authors wrote.  At Laser Spine, incentives are offered to “patient
coordinators,” according to a lawsuit filed in December by a
former employee. They’re paid commissions based on the number of
surgeries “booked or sold,” former coordinator Migdalia Noble
claimed in the suit.  Sales commissions -- and bonuses such as Bahamas trips --
are based on both the volume of surgeries booked and the
patients’ satisfaction, said Jimmy St. Louis, the COO. About 50
people made the last trip to the  Atlantis  resort, he said.  Centers that specialize in spinal surgery compete for an
estimated $73 billion a year that Americans spend seeking relief
from back and neck pain, based on 2008 data from researchers at
the Dartmouth Medical School in Hanover, New Hampshire.  Competing Online  The competition extends to the web, where Laser Spine
probably spends as much as $100,000 a month to have its site
show up prominently among search engines’ results, said Meg
Biscup, who oversees marketing for the Biscup Spine Institute.
The Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based institute, which does
minimally invasive procedures, is operated by her husband,
Robert Biscup. Laser Spine executives declined to discuss what
they spend on marketing.  A recent Google search of “Biscup Spine Institute”
returned a link including the words “Safe Outpatient
Procedure.” Clicking it took users to Laser Spine’s website --
evidence that Laser Spine paid the Mountain View, California-
based search engine for key words related to Biscup, Meg Biscup
says.  Google’s Policy  Laser Spine’s Bollinger said an advertising vendor
“corrected this process error” after Bloomberg News asked
about it. Google says it responds to complaints regarding
advertisers’ use of others’ trademarks in two ways. In
Australia, Brazil, China and elsewhere, Google doesn’t allow use
of others’ trademarks in both ad text and key words. In the
U.S., as in most other countries, it investigates trademark
complaints involving ad text only.  James St. Louis was “driving two beat-up old cars and was
out of money” in 2003 as he recruited investors for his planned
spine center, according to a deposition given by Bailey, the
Arkansas businessman who is chairman of North American Spine.  St. Louis now has seven cars, including a Cadillac and a
Hummer, registered to his Florida address. It’s a 12,900-square-
foot waterfront mansion that he bought in 2008 for $10.3
million. He bought another home in Aspen, Colorado, last year,
paying $8.3 million.  His 2001 bankruptcy filing in Alabama listed assets of
$527,660 and liabilities of $4.32 million. The next year, he
took a job at the Hudson, Florida-based Bonati Institute, a
minimally invasive spine center that  claims  to be “where laser
spine surgery began.”  Patented Techniques  Founder Alfred Bonati later accused St. Louis of stealing
patented surgical techniques in a 2008 federal lawsuit. The case
was settled and both sides declined to comment on it.  Bonati was ordered last year to pay $11.8 million to
William Clark, 72, a former patient whose complaint said he
underwent at least eight procedures at the center that left him
in constant pain. Clark developed an infection that spread to
his bones and will never walk again, his complaint said. The
award was made by a three-member board of arbitration in Pasco
County, Florida.  Bonati, who claims a patient-reported success rate of 93
percent, did not respond to requests for comment.  Each spine center offers its own variation on a theme: disc
surgery done through a tiny incision that the surgeon snakes an
endoscope into.  Two Steps  About 80 percent of Laser Spine’s patients get the same
two-step procedure, according to Robert Gruber, a physician who
directs spinal diagnostics at the center in Tampa: First the
surgeon burns off sensitive nerve endings in the joints between
vertebrae, a process known as “ablation.” Then, he removes
herniated disc material or bone spurs that press on nerves and
cause pain -- a decompression, or “laminotomy.”  Both techniques have been in use for years. The innovations
that Laser Spine and its rivals offer are to use endoscopes to
keep the incisions small, and lasers for the ablations.
Traditionally, surgeons have used electrical current from radio
waves or other energy sources for the burning.  The evidence that ablation -- the laser-assisted process
that gives the institute its name -- helps patients is “pretty
weak,” says Roger Chou, a physician at the Oregon Health &
Science University in Portland who is the director of the
American Pain Society’s clinical guidelines program.  “Even in studies showing some benefit, the benefit is
small and doesn’t last that long,” Chou said. Nerve endings can
regenerate over time. It’s difficult to find a clinical basis
for Laser Spine’s procedures, he said. “It sounds like a
shotgun approach.”  Decompression’s Benefits  Surgeons consider the second procedure, decompression, more
beneficial for certain patients. It’s generally successful in
treating 60 to 70 percent of patients with spinal stenosis -- a
narrowing of the canal that holds the spinal cord and nerves --
said Jon Lurie, a spine doctor and researcher at  Dartmouth-
Hitchcock Medical Center  in Lebanon, New Hampshire.  “Spinal stenosis is our bread and butter,” said Laser
Spine’s Gruber. Still, unaffiliated surgeons have treated former
Laser Spine patients who didn’t need the procedure and shouldn’t
have gotten it, said Choll W. Kim, a San Diego surgeon who
founded the Society for Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery.  “Their marketing is so powerful,” Kim said. “Many of us
have seen patients that needed something different and got the
Laser Spine surgery.”  One man with adult scoliosis, a curvature of the spine that
required more extensive surgery, received two decompression
operations at Laser Spine, said surgeon Donald S. Corenman of
Vail, Colorado.  ‘Major Surgical Fix’  “That didn’t give him relief,” Corenman said. “His
problem is he needed a major surgical fix.”  Corenman said he’s treated 20 patients who needed more help
after their surgery at Laser Spine, including Balch, the flight
attendant who experienced the spinal fluid leak. Left untreated
or unrepaired, such leaks can lead to intense headaches, higher
risk of infection, and in rare cases, meningitis.  Laser Spine repaired Balch’s leak and then sent her back to
her hotel room for three days, according to her complaint. She
should have been admitted to a hospital and restricted to a bed
for 24 hours, Corenman said. Her spine began leaking again, she
said in an interview.  Ultimately, Corenman performed spinal-fusion surgery on
Balch -- a procedure that often requires the use of screws and
plates as well as at least six weeks of recovery. It’s precisely
the operation she’d hoped to avoid when she chose Laser Spine,
she said. She’s one of six former Laser Spine patients who said
in interviews that they later underwent fusions.  Cited Four Times  Florida regulators cited the company for deficiencies at
least four times since September 2007. The citations include
using unsterile equipment; failing to report adverse events at
the facility, including performing the wrong procedure on a
patient; and instances in which patients with complications were
sent to back to their hotel rooms -- on a stretcher in one case
-- or told not to go to a hospital. The company corrected all
deficiencies in each instance, according to state records.  In one incident, cited in a Nov. 6, 2008, state report, an
emergency room doctor at a Tampa-area hospital called the
institute at 1 a.m. to report a patient who had spine surgery
the previous day needed immediate surgery because of a hematoma
-- that is, a collection of blood outside a blood vessel -- that
was pressing on a nerve root.  The physician assistant who answered at the institute
“instructed” the doctor to send the patient back to his hotel
room and have him return to Laser Spine in the morning,
according to the report. The doctor refused; the patient
received successful surgery at the hospital, the report says.  Paying a Premium  Many Laser Spine patients say they knew they were paying a
premium for the surgery, but did so because of the promise of a
quick and easy fix for their back or neck pain.  Dale Henderson of Orrington, Maine, paid $30,000 out of
pocket for an ablation and decompression surgery at Laser Spine
on Oct. 7, 2008 and $25,500 for a second decompression a week
later, according to copies of his bills. He said he received a
discount on the second procedure.  Medicare patients treated at Laser Spine pay $17,900 of
their own funds to cover a “facility fee” that Bollinger said
the government insurer won’t pay to free-standing ambulatory
care centers. For hospital-based outpatient spinal
decompressions, Medicare pays an average facility fee of $3,535.  The company bills Medicare patients for the higher fee
because the government pays only “a fraction of reasonable
charges,” Bollinger said. Laser Spine charges more because it
provides more service and medical staff than others, she said.  Coffee Bar  In the company’s Tampa waiting room, patients lounge in
leather recliners, taking in a floor-to-ceiling view of Tampa
Bay. Catered meals are available, as are beverages from a coffee
bar. Photographs of patients line the wall.  “It’s amazing,” says Glen Magee, a restaurant owner in
Kentwood, Louisiana, of the results of his 2008 surgery at Laser
Spine. He said he felt better immediately after the surgery than
he had at any point in the past 20 years.  Patients’ testimonials appear by the dozens on the
institute’s website. One of them is Charley Shirley of Marietta,
Georgia, who’s quoted saying “I feel like a new person.” That
quote came just two days after his surgery. His relief didn’t
last, he said in an interview.  “A year or so later, I was still aggravated with lower
back pain,” said Shirley, who works for  Accor SA ’s Motel 6
chain. He subsequently underwent a spinal fusion operation in
Atlanta, which he described as moderately successful.  Hulk’s New Surgery  It’s unclear whether wrestler  Terry “Hulk” Hogan , who
also provided a testimonial for Laser Spine, experienced lasting
relief. In December, though, Hogan publicly reported that he was
having major spinal fusion surgery at a different facility. He
declined an interview request.  Patient Hulon Taylor said he met his Laser Spine surgeon,
Craig Wolff, less than an hour before he went into the operating
room on Feb. 19, 2009.  The institute’s website describes Wolff as a surgeon with
“esteemed credentials” who “has been revolutionizing the
field of orthopedic surgery for over 20 years.”  It does not mention that in 2005 the state  Board of
Medicine  filed an administrative complaint against Wolff,
charging him with operating on the wrong side of a patient’s
spine. The complaint was settled last year; Wolff received a
letter of concern from the board, paid a $10,000 fine and agreed
to attend continuing education classes. He neither admitted nor
denied the allegations.  No Medical Error  The action against Wolff occurred before he arrived at
Laser Spine and was an “administrative error” not a medical
one, the institute said in a written statement. Wolff declined
to comment.  When Taylor, 61, arrived at Laser Spine’s Tampa
headquarters, he says, all he knew about the surgery was what
the staff told him: It would take 45 minutes and he would be
back in his hotel room that evening.  Taylor never returned to his hotel room. After the surgery,
he told staffers that his stomach was “really hurting,” he
said in an interview. He said Wolff came by and indicated it was
just gas. The nurses told him to get dressed, it was “time to
go,” he said.  As he put his clothes on, he fainted. He remembers waking
up at Tampa General Hospital.  Taylor suffered “life-threatening injuries” to two
arteries from the surgery, according to the attending surgeon’s
report at Tampa General. He lost so much blood to internal
bleeding that he suffered a heart attack, medical records show.  Billed Insurer  Someone from Laser Spine came by the hospital while he was
recuperating and returned his $15,000 deposit, Taylor said.
Still, the company billed his insurer and collected $36,940 for
the surgery, payment records show. In all, his insurer paid
$174,056 for the back surgery and subsequent emergency surgery
and recovery at Tampa General, according to billing records.  Taylor was unable to return to his job as a foreman for the
local utility company near his home in Bonifay, Florida. He sued
Laser Spine and recently settled. While the terms are
confidential, the company’s insurer told the state it paid
$200,000 toward the settlement. The insurer does not have to
disclose whether Laser Spine contributed any funds.  “Have a good day and a  Band-Aid  didn’t cut it for me,”
Taylor said in an interview. “That is too good to be true.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 David Armstrong  in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  