-- 
Korean Won Declines on Derivatives Probe as Most Asian Currencies Steady

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-05-04T09:28:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/asian-currencies-retreat-for-2nd-day-as-technical-gauge-suggests-declines.html
South Korea ’s won fell by the most in
three weeks, while most Asian currencies were little changed,
after the nation’s Financial Supervisory Service and central
bank said a probe into derivatives trading would be expanded.  Taiwan’s dollar pared earlier gains of as much as 0.6
percent to close up 0.1 percent on suspected intervention by the
central bank, according to two traders who declined to be
identified because market operations aren’t normally disclosed.
A technical gauge traders use to predict price swings signaled
the dollar may rebound. The relative strength indexes for the
won, Taiwan’s dollar and  Malaysia ’s ringgit all dipped below 30
this week, suggesting recent gains have been excessive.  “People have been aggressively adding to Asian long
positions, and it looks like we’ve been seeing some
consolidation this week,” said Cliff Tan, head of emerging-
markets research at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “To me,
it’s more of a healthy correction.”  The won declined 0.6 percent to 1,074.85 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Thailand ’s baht and Malaysia’s ringgit were little
changed at 30 and 2.9758, respectively.  Indonesia ’s rupiah was
unchanged at 8,553.  Policy makers in Malaysia and the Philippines will review
borrowing costs tomorrow. Nine of 16 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg expect Bank Negara to leave its benchmark rate
unchanged at 2.75 percent, while seven forecast a quarter of a
percentage point rise. In the Philippines, 12 of 16 economists
polled by Bloomberg forecast a 25-basis point lift to 4.50
percent, three expect no change and one predicts a 50-basis
point, or half a percentage point, increase.  ‘Extreme Volatility’  South Korea’s economy is still attracting capital inflows
that may seriously affect the nation’s asset markets, including
real estate, and authorities will smooth “extreme volatility”
in the won, Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said in an
interview in Hanoi yesterday. Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong
Ku said April 28 that limits on derivatives trading would be
tightened if needed.  “The expansion of the inspection over the banks’ currency
derivatives is damping demand for the won,” said Han Sung Min,
a currency dealer at Busan Bank in  Seoul .  Thailand’s inflation quickened to a 15-month high and
reports gave rise to uncertainty regarding the timing of
parliamentary elections scheduled for this year.  Thai Election Uncertainty  Thai Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva yesterday denied a
report that he submitted a proposal to dissolve the  House of
Representatives  to head of state King Bhumibol Adulyadej. House
speaker Chai Chidchob told reporters that Abhisit had already
sought a royal decree, which would trigger an election within 45
to 60 days.  Consumer prices rose 4.04 percent in April from a year
earlier, compared with a 3.14 percent gain in March and the 3.20
percent median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey  “There’s a lot of confusion about whether the parliament
dissolution happened or not,” said Radhika Rao, a regional
economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “The April CPI was a
lot stronger than expected.”  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso and  India ’s rupee
strengthened 0.1 percent to 42.87 and 44.495 per dollar,
respectively.  China ’s yuan advanced 0.05 percent to 6.4933,
Singapore’s dollar was little changed at S$1.2290 and  Taiwan ’s
dollar closed at NT$28.670.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  