-- 
U.S. Stocks, Commodities Drop on Economic Data

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 
2011-05-04T20:11:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/asia-stocks-commodities-fall-on-china-tightening-concern-dollar-climbs.html
U.S. stocks fell and commodities
slumped, while 10-year Treasuries rallied for a fifth straight
day, as lower-than-forecast growth in  service industries  and
employment damped optimism about the health of the economy. The
euro and Portuguese bonds rose after a bailout agreement.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.7 percent to
1,347.32 at 4 p.m. in New York as commodity producers led
declines. The S&P/GSCI Index of raw materials sank 1.5 percent
as silver extended its biggest three-day plunge since 1983,
copper dropped the most in eight weeks and oil lost 1.6 percent
to $109.24 a barrel. Ten-year Treasury yields decreased three
basis points to 3.22 percent, the lowest since March.  Portugal ’s
two-year note yield tumbled 43 basis points to 11.39 percent.  Stocks opened the session lower after ADP Employer
Service’s tally of jobs growth in April was 179,000, trailing
the 198,000 median forecast of economists in a survey. Losses
swelled as the  Institute for Supply Management  said its gauge of
non-manufacturing companies slumped to the lowest level in eight
months. European stocks extended an earlier drop triggered by
concern the region’s central bank will map out interest-rate
increases tomorrow.  “We haven’t had strong employment growth yet,” said Tim Evnin,  money manager  at Evercore Wealth Management, which
oversees $2.8 billion. “If you look at various trends, it’s
still pretty tepid. We’re hopeful that it will get some
traction. It’s been positive, but it’s been pretty mediocre so
far. That’s important to really make this economic growth
substantially more sustainable.”  Commodity Producers  The  S&P 500  dropped for a third day as Chevron Corp. and
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. lost at least 1.4 percent as
declines in commodity producers overshadowed takeovers in the
food and computer-chip equipment industries.  Las Vegas Sands
Corp. (LVS)  plunged 7.3 percent after the casino company’s earnings
missed estimates.  Ralcorp Holdings Inc. jumped 4.9 percent after  ConAgra
Foods Inc. (CAG)  said it offered to buy the maker of Post cereals for
$86 a share in cash, or about  $4.9 billion, plus the assumption
of $2.5 billion in debt. Ralcorp’s board rejected the offer.
Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates Inc. surged 51 percent
after Applied Materials Inc. bid $4.9 billion for the company.  About $834.4 billion in takeovers have been announced
globally so far in 2011, a 23 percent increase from the same
period in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  European Stocks  Energy and mining companies were the worst-performing
industries in the Stoxx Europe 600. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s
third-largest mining company, lost 3.3 percent. Copper futures
fell 2.8 percent to $4.134 a pound amid concern that  China , the
world’s largest consumer of industrial metals, may take more
steps to tighten credit, potentially curbing commodity demand.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s largest wind-turbine
maker, tumbled 8 percent after reporting a wider-than-estimated
loss. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV sank 3.3 percent as the world’s
largest brewer reported volume that missed projections. BNP
Paribas SA,  France ’s biggest bank, climbed 1.1 percent after
profit rose.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 1.5 percent to a
two-week low. The Shanghai Composite retreated 2.3 percent to
the lowest level since Feb. 23 after the nation’s central bank
said taming inflation is its top priority, signaling that more
tightening is possible even after a manufacturing survey showed
growth may be moderating in  Asia ’s biggest economy.  Pakistan ’s benchmark Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index sank
2.4 percent, the most since February, on speculation the U.S.
may reduce aid after the killing of  Osama bin Laden .  Russia, Poland  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell 2 percent, extending its drop
from a peak in April to 11 percent. Poland’s WIG20 Index slid
1.4 percent as a gauge of manufacturing unexpectedly slowed.  Silver futures tumbled, capping the biggest three-day slump
in 28 years, as increases in Comex margins spurred investor
sales. Gold declined after a report that Soros Fund Management
LLC may have cut metal holdings. Silver for July delivery lost
$3.197, or 7.5 percent, to close at $39.388 an ounce on the
Comex in New York. In three days, the price plummeted 19
percent, the most since March 1983. Gold for June delivery fell
$25.10, or 1.6 percent, to $1,515.30 an ounce.  The decline in oil came after government data showed
stockpiles rose 3.42 million barrels to 366.5 million last week,
the highest level since October. Inventories were forecast to
gain 2 million barrels, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, was little changed after a two-
day gain snapped a nine-day slump, its longest in four years.  Euro Rallies  The euro appreciated versus 14 of 16 major peers, rising
more than 1 percent versus the  New Zealand dollar  and Brazilian
real.  New Zealand ’s dollar weakened versus 15 of 16 most-traded
counterparts after a report showed the nation had the biggest
net outflow of residents in more than 10 years in March.  Portuguese bonds gained after the government announced an
agreement late yesterday on a 78 billion-euro ($116 billion)
three-year loan package. The ten-year Portuguese bond yield slid
six basis points to 9.52 percent after declining as much as 18
points earlier. The difference in yield versus German bunds
dropped 7 basis points to 623 basis points.  The implied yield on the three-month Euribor futures
contract expiring in December advanced six basis points to 2.17
percent as traders added to bets that the ECB will raise its
main refinancing rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  