-- 
Massey Cited by U.S. for ‘Outrageous’ Mine Safety Violations

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-05-04T15:39:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/massey-cited-by-u-s-for-outrageous-mine-safety-violations-1-.html
Massey Energy Co. (MEE) , owner of the  West
Virginia  mine where 29 workers died in a 2010 blast, was cited
by U.S. regulators for more than two dozen safety violations,
including inadequate ventilation, at a mine run by Inman Energy.  Conditions and the response of officials at the Randolph
Mine in Boone County, West Virginia, were “nothing short of
outrageous,” Joseph Main, head of the U.S.  Mine Safety and
Health Administration , said in a statement yesterday. MSHA
issued 20 orders requiring the company to remove workers from
the mine and five citations.  Massey, which is being acquired by  Alpha Natural Resources
Inc. (ANR) , hasn’t improved safety since the April 5, 2010, explosion
at the Upper Big Branch in Montcoal, the worst U.S. mining
disaster in 40 years, the agency said. MSHA stepped up
inspections of underground mines after the blast.  The Randolph Mine violations were uncovered April 29 on a
surprise search by six agency officials. Inspectors found miners
coated in coal dust and combustible material, putting workers
“at serious risk to the threat of fire, explosion and black
lung,” Main said.  Ventilation curtains  weren’t being used in
some areas to protect workers against respiratory diseases, the
agency said.  “There was dust everywhere, complete violations of the
law,” Cecil Roberts, president of the United Mine Workers of
America, said today at a hearing on mine safety held by the
House Education and Workforce Committee. “If we’re not going to
have strong enforcement, then Congress should not write laws,
because they are useless if they are not protecting our coal
miners.”  ‘Very Disappointed’  Massey, based in Richmond,  Virginia , disciplined several
individuals after the inspection, and “will take all actions
necessary to ensure that our operations comply with the letter
of the law,” General Counsel  Shane Harvey  said in an e-mail.  “We were very disappointed with the results of the
inspection,” he said.  Massey had a 1.2 million-ton coal shortfall in the first
quarter because of lower productivity at underground mines and
difficulty staffing some operations, the company said on May 2.
The company had a first-quarter net loss of $7.7 million, or 7
cents a share, compared with profit of $33.6 million, or 39
cents, a year earlier.  Alpha, which is buying Massey in a $7.1 billion
transaction, said on April 2 that it received antitrust
approvals of U.S. and foreign regulators. The purchase may be
completed by June 1, Massey said on May 2.  Patriot, International  The Upper Big Branch disaster also is exacting a price for
rivals such as  International Coal Group Inc. (ICO)  and  Patriot Coal
Corp. (PCX) , as President Barack Obama’s administration steps up
safety inspections and penalties.  The administration has proposed tighter rules that would
let regulators close coal mines and penalize the operators that
have repeated safety violations.  Legislation giving regulators expanded power failed last
year in the Democratic-led House, and Republicans who control
the House today said prevention should be a focus.  “Punishment is important, but putting punishment before
prevention is not in the best interest of America’s workers,”
said Representative Tim Walberg, a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the Subcommittee on Workforce Protection. “Most of
the  mining industry  does the right thing.”  ‘Personal Responsibility’  MSHA’s enforcement is “focused on everything but employee
personal responsibility and precautions,” Louis Griesemer,
spokesman for the National Stone, Sand and Gravel Association,
said in his prepared testimony.  The agency has “become unduly reliant on trying to add
regulations” that “will increase bureaucracy, administration
and paperwork cost for companies,” Griesemer said. “We cannot
regulate our way to zero injury.”  Anthony Bumbico, vice president of safety at  Arch Coal
Inc. (ACI) , told the committee that “overly prescriptive regulatory
requirements can inhibit the ability of companies to respond
proactively to health and safety issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomber.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  