-- 
Atis, Eastern Pacific, Ramunia, TRC: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-05-04T00:17:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/atis-eastern-pacific-ramunia-trc-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 0.2 percent to
1,531.47.       Atis Corp. (ATIS MK): Shares of the industrial equipment
supplier will be suspended from May 10 after the company failed
to submit its annual audited accounts on time, according to a
stock exchange statement. Atis added 1.9 percent to 1.09
ringgit.       Eastern Pacific Industrial Corp. (EPIC MK): The oil and gas
services provider’s first-quarter profit rose 11 percent from a
year earlier to 10.9 million ringgit ($3.7 million) as sales
climbed, according to a company statement. The shares were
unchanged at 2.40 ringgit.       Fitters Diversified Bhd. (FIT)  : Shares of the builder and
distributor of fire-safety materials will be suspended from May
10 until further notice after the company failed to submit its
annual audited accounts on time, the  Kuala Lumpur  stock exchange
said in a statement. The stock was unchanged at 1.07 ringgit.  Mobif Bhd. (MBF)  : Shares of the Internet security
company will be suspended from May 10 after the company failed
to submit its 2010 audited accounts on time, according to a
statement by the stock exchange. The bourse rejected the
company’s request for more time to submit the accounts, Mobif
said in a separate statement. The shares were unchanged at 3
sen.  Ramunia Holdings Bhd. (RH)  : The oil and gas services
provider plans to raise as much as 156.6 million ringgit from a
rights offer to help finance the acquisition of a yard. It also
announced a “capital reconstruction” proposal to eliminate
accumulated losses as it seeks to restore its finances, it said
in a statement. The stock fell 2.3 percent to 64 sen.        TRC Synergy Bhd. (TRC)  : The builder won a 45 million-
ringgit construction contract from Boustead Penang Shipyard
Sdn., according to a company statement. The shares were
unchanged at 1.61 ringgit.  TechnoDex Bhd. (TDEX)  : The software company said
Priharta Development Sdn. ceased to be a substantial shareholder
after it sold 11.4 million shares in the open market at an
average 7.6 sen each, stock exchange filings showed. Priharta
was previously TechnoDex’s biggest shareholder, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Its shares rose 6.7 percent to 8
sen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  