-- 
Avon Products Says It Fired Four Executives Over Bribes to China Officials

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-05-05T09:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/avon-says-it-fired-four-executives-in-china-over-bribes.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , the world’s
largest door-to-door cosmetics merchant, is probing possible
corruption in other countries after firing four executives over
bribes to officials in  China , it said in a regulatory filing.  The company suspended the four in April 2010 as part of an
internal investigation into its compliance with the U.S.
 Foreign Corrupt Practices Act . The executives included the
general manager and finance chief of the company’s China unit,
which generates 2 percent of Avon’s revenue. Other employees
could be affected, according to the May 3 filing.  Avon, based in New York, is conducting compliance reviews
“in a number of other countries selected to represent each of
the company’s international geographic segments,” according to
the filing. The reviews and internal investigation are focused
on expenses for, among other items, entertainment and gifts
“in connection with our business dealings, directly or
indirectly, with foreign governments,” according to the filing.  “The firing is likely to be part of the company’s
strategy in hoping to reach a settlement with U.S. authorities
in respect of any criminal charges,” said Richard Chalk, head
of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP’s Asian disputes practice,
who is not involved in the case. He is currently working for
clients on two  FCPA  cases.  Brazil ,  India ,  Japan   As part of the internal probe, Avon has discovered
millions of dollars in questionable payments to officials in
Brazil,  Mexico ,  Argentina , India and Japan, The Wall Street
Journal reported yesterday, citing an unidentified person.  The fired executives are S.K. Kao, the former general
manager; Jimmy Beh, the China chief financial officer; C.Q. Sun,
the former head of corporate affairs for China; and Ian
Rossetter, the former head of global internal audit and
security, the newspaper reported.  Yoyo Wang, a public relations official for  Avon  in
 Shanghai , said she didn’t have the phone numbers of the former
officials and that the company wouldn’t provide them.  Claudius O. Sokenu, a lawyer at Arnold & Porter LLP in  New
York , said yesterday in a phone interview that he is conducting
the internal investigation. He declined to comment further.  Sokenu, who regularly represents companies in Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act compliance, is an adjunct professor at
the  Georgetown University Law Center , according to Arnold &
Porter’s  website . He was formerly an enforcement lawyer at the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Shares Decline  Avon, led by Chief Executive Officer Andrea Jung, fell 59
cents, or 1.9 percent, to $30.32 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 2.2 percent
in the past year.  The cosmetics seller made 229 million revenue last year in
China, 35 percent lower than in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Avon had $10.9 billion total sales last
year.  Avon said in a Feb. 24 SEC filing that it previously hired
outside counsel to conduct the internal investigation and
compliance reviews focused on the FCPA and related U.S. and
foreign laws in China and other countries. The probe, being
conducted under the oversight of Avon’s audit committee, began
in June 2008, according to the filing.  The company, citing an earlier regulatory filing, said it
disclosed in October 2008 that it had reported its internal
probe to the SEC and the U.S. Justice Department.  “At this point we are unable to predict the duration,
scope, developments in, results of, or consequences of the
internal investigation and compliance reviews,” Avon said in
its Feb. 24 filing.  “The investigation is ongoing,” Jennifer Vargas, an Avon
spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. She
declined to comment further.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Matthew Boyle} in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
{Joel Rosenblatt} in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  