-- 
Banco Popular Profit Falls 9 Percent on Loan Revenue Slump

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-05-04T15:52:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/banco-popular-profit-falls-9-percent-on-loan-revenue-slump-1-.html
Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) ,  Spain ’s
third-biggest commercial bank, said first-quarter profit fell 9
percent on lower lending revenue as the bank used one-time gains
to cover deteriorating real-estate assets.  Net income declined to 185.7 million euros ($275.9 million)
from 204 million euros a year earlier, the Madrid-based bank
said in a filing to regulators today. Popular shares climbed as
earnings topped the 155 million-euro average projection of seven
analysts in a Bloomberg survey and the lender said it was on
course to beat consensus estimates this year by about 10
percent.  Spanish banks, including Popular, have faced rising
defaults and weakening demand for credit following the nation’s
property crash, while the double impact of higher funding costs
and low yields on loans have eroded interest margins. Net
interest income may have troughed in the first quarter after
dropping 22 percent from a year before to 515.4 million euros,
Popular said.  “It’s a difficult macro and micro environment, so I think
we have to be extremely prudent with our assertions and the
management of our business,” Chief Financial Officer Jacobo Gonzalez-Robatto said in a webcast for analysts. Even so, he
said net interest income would “definitely go up” over the
next three quarters.  Shares Climb  Popular shares rose 2.5 percent to 4.16 euros at the close
of trading in  Madrid , leading gains in the benchmark IBEX 35
index. The stock has advanced 8.3 percent this year, valuing the
bank at about 5.8 billion euros.  Net profit in 2011 will be “marginally above” current
market consensus, according to the bank.  “The current market consensus stands at around 500 million
euros,” said Gonzalez-Robatto. “Anything in the region of 10
percent probably would be the target right now.”  Bad loans as a proportion of overall lending climbed to
5.44 percent from 4.91 percent a year ago and 5.27 percent in
December, Popular said. The bank logged 515 million euros in net
newly defaulted loans in the quarter, compared with 557 million
euros in the fourth quarter and 336 million euros in the year-
earlier period.  The bad-loans ratio will rise to close to 6 percent, with
the peak probably being reached in the third or fourth quarter,
Gonzalez-Robatto said in a news conference in Madrid today.  Customer Deposits  Popular had costs related to loan impairments and
provisions of 408.6 million euros in the first three months of
the year, compared with 275.9 million euros a year earlier, the
lender said.  The company set aside 466 million euros in extraordinary
provisions, which were offset by gains from a new joint venture
with  Allianz SE (ALV)  and the sale of property.  Gross lending rose 0.7 percent to 98.4 billion euros.
Customer deposits climbed 7 percent as the bank was to renew a
campaign to gather funds from clients at a yield of 2.93
percent, down from the 3.6 percent it was paying a year ago,
Popular said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  