-- 
Banks Can Fix Crisis by Easing U.S. Homeowner Debt, Ranieri Says

-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-05-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/banks-should-swap-debt-for-equity-on-distressed-homes-lewis-ranieri-says.html
U.S. lenders can assist millions of
owners who are underwater or in default by offering short-term
leases on their homes, said Lewis Ranieri, the pioneer of
mortgage securitization.  “There are unfortunately millions of lower- and middle-
class people who reached for the American dream and were coached
into how to buy a house,” Ranieri said yesterday during a panel
discussion at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly
Hills,  California . Borrowers whose property values have fallen
below the amount owed “should get help,” he said.  As many as 11 million troubled mortgages are weighing on
the U.S. housing market, said Ranieri, who packaged home loans
into securities at Salomon Brothers, making it Wall Street’s
most profitable firm in the 1980s. Distressed sales were 40
percent of transactions in March, the National Association of
Realtors said April 20, while the S&P/Case-Shiller index showed
prices falling 3.3 percent in February from a year earlier.  “If his house was $220,000, and now it’s $90,000, give me
the keys, I give you a lease for seven years,” said Ranieri,
chairman of New York-based investment company Ranieri Partners
LLC. “If you behave well, I will give you back the house.”  Ranieri and Kenneth Rosen, a  University of California 
economist and chairman of Rosen Consulting Group in Berkeley,
published a five-point plan last month urging banks to reduce
debt for qualified borrowers and recognize losses on second
mortgages and home-equity lines of credit. They also favor
having the mortgage market continue to be backed by  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac  or a “successor entity.”  “Qualified borrowers for the last 30 years don’t get
underwritten today,” Ranieri said during the panel discussion.
“First thing today is putting the government back to work to
provide good loans to good borrowers. We can’t foreclose on all
those that are delinquent. It would be economically and socially
catastrophic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  