-- 
Bank Stocks Shunned by Money Managers Over Derivatives

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-05-04T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/bank-stocks-too-fancy-for-money-managers-turned-off-by-use-of-derivatives.html
“Above all stick with what you
know,”  Warren Buffett  cautioned investors in a 1974 Forbes
magazine  interview . “Don’t get too fancy.”  Banks, in the view of some of today’s best-performing money
managers, are too fancy -- their businesses and finances too
complicated to understand even as regulators have tried to make
them more transparent. Investors owning few if any of the stocks
in the group include Clyde McGregor, who runs Oakmark Equity and
Income Fund, Delafield Fund’s John Delafield and  Donald Yacktman 
of Yacktman Focused Fund.  The fund managers said they are frustrated by complex
balance sheets stuffed with derivatives that make it hard to
evaluate bank assets and how they will fare under different
economic scenarios. They are also concerned that profits may be
hurt by a slowdown in the economy, litigation over mortgage
bonds and foreclosures, and new fee-crimping rules.  “We find it hard to believe the banks have cured all their
bad asset problems, and they aren’t transparent enough for us to
understand the risks,” McGregor, whose $20.5 billion fund beat
99 percent of peers over the past decade, said in a telephone
interview from Chicago.  The 24-stock  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  fell 8.6 percent in the past
year, compared with the 13 percent increase by the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, a benchmark for the broader market.  Book Value  The bank index is priced at roughly book value, or the
value of total assets minus liabilities, which makes bank stocks
cheap by historical standards, said  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  in Portland, Maine. At the end of 2006,
the index traded at two times book value, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks earnings in the first quarter provided few reasons
for bearish investors to change their view. Net revenue at the
six largest U.S. lenders --  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley -- fell 13.3 percent from a year
earlier, according to Bloomberg data. Profits excluding taxes,
loan-loss provisions and one-time items slid 40.2 percent.  Bank stocks, as measured by the KBW index, fell 50 percent
in 2008 and then more than doubled from March 9, 2009, when
stocks reached a 12-year low, to the end of the year. 2009. Bank
shares gained another 22 percent in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  McGregor’s Oakmark Equity and Income held no bank stocks as
of March 31, according to Bloomberg data. He and co-manager
Edward Studzinski got out in 2006 on concern that mortgage
lending had gotten too aggressive.  The fund, which buys stocks and bonds and is part of part
of Chicago-based Harris Associates LP, returned 8.7 percent
annually in the past 10 years, almost twice the average gain by
balanced mutual funds, data from Morningstar show.  Derivatives Problem  “Can you still make money in banks?” McGregor, 58, said.
“Maybe. But we can build a portfolio that doesn’t demand owning
them.”  The problem, he said, is the complexity of the banks,
especially their use of derivatives. Derivatives are contracts
whose value is based on stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and
commodities, or linked to specific events such as changes in
 interest rates  or the weather. Options and futures are the most
common types of derivatives.  Unlike traditional loans, which can be studied and
evaluated, derivatives are described by banks in general terms
that makes it difficult to determine the quality of the
underlying assets, McGregor said.  Rocket Science  In its 10-K annual report filed in February, Bank of
America listed its credit derivatives, securities that let
buyers guard against a borrower’s missed debt payments. The
filing doesn’t say which specific debts the bank is buying
protection for, and it describes the counterparties to the
trades as “large multinational financial institutions.”  “We don’t know what we are being exposed to,” McGregor
said.  It’s not a question of requiring more disclosure, which
regulators have done in the past several years, according to
George Shipp, manager of the $694 million Sterling Capital
Special Opportunities Fund in Virginia Beach, Virginia.  “You need to be a rocket scientist to understand it,”
Shipp, 52, said in a phone interview. He said he recently read
through Goldman Sachs’s annual report and, even with pages of
disclosure, “it is not something the layman is going to be able
to figure out.”  His fund, which beat 97 percent of peers over the past five
years, holds one bank, Boston-based State Street Corp.  Buffett’s Banks  Buffett, who once called derivatives “financial weapons of
mass destruction,” doesn’t consider all banks too fancy.
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the Omaha, Nebraska-based holding
company he has run since 1970, is the largest shareholder of
Wells Fargo, according to Bloomberg data. His $10.1 billion
stake in the San Francisco-based bank is Berkshire’s second-
largest, after Coca-Cola Co. Buffett is the third-largest
shareholder in U.S. Bancorp of Minneapolis, with $2 billion of
stock at year-end.  “U.S. banking profitability will be considerably less in
my view in the period ahead than it was in the early part of
this century,” Buffett said April 30 at the annual meeting of
Berkshire shareholders in Omaha. Buffett said profits would
diminish as regulations forced banks to reduce leverage.  At the same meeting he described Wells Fargo and U.S.
Bancorp as “very good operations.”  Delafield Fund  Delafield, who has been managing money since 1970, can’t
remember the last time he owned a bank stock.  “It’s impossible from the outside to know the value of
what they hold,” Delafield, 75, who runs the $1.4 billion
Delafield Fund from  New York  for Tocqueville Asset Management
LP, said in a phone interview.  The fund had 30 percent of its money in industrial stocks,
28 percent in basic materials and none in financials as of March
31, according to Morningstar data. It has gained 12 percent a
year for the past decade, ranking first among midcap value
funds.  The $1.4 billion FPA Capital Fund, the best-performing
diversified U.S. stock fund over the past 25 years, owned no
bank stocks as of March 31, Bloomberg data show. The fund gained
15 percent annually over that stretch, according to Morningstar.  “Back in 2007 many investors weren’t paying attention to
the huge risks embedded on the balance sheets of financials,”
Dennis Bryan, 49, co-manager of the Los Angeles-based fund since
2007, wrote in an e-mail. “Today more investors are closely
monitoring those risks.”  Berkowitz the Bull  One of the biggest bulls on bank stocks is  Bruce Berkowitz ,
manager of the $20 billion  Fairholme Fund. (FAIRX)  He began buying
lenders in the fourth quarter of 2009, convinced an improving
U.S. economy would lift the banks along with it. Berkowitz, who
in January 2010 was named Morningstar’s domestic stock manager
of the decade, now has more than two-thirds of the fund’s equity
in financial stocks, including Citigroup and Bank of America.  “The balance sheets look better than ever, the banks are
making money and they are dealing with their issues,”
Berkowitz, 52, said in a telephone interview from Miami, where
his firm, Fairholme Capital Management LLC, is based.  Fairholme Fund fell 3.2 percent this year through May 2. In
addition to Citigroup and Bank of America, its top 10 holdings
as of Nov. 30 included New York-based banks Goldman Sachs and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , Bloomberg data show.  Goldman Sachs is a favorite holding of billionaire investor
Michael Price, who said some large banks stocks are “great”
values.  “Some of the worst-performing things are big financials
this year, which is kind of surprising,” Price said yesterday in
a Bloomberg Television interview on “Surveillance Midday” with
Tom Keene. “We own Goldman, we buy Goldman on dips. I think
Goldman’s a great large-cap financial value guy’s stock.”  Mortgage Pain  In an April 15 interview with Bloomberg Television, Bank of
America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  said that while the bank was
making progress in many areas, “the mortgage business continues
to push us back.”  Like other banks, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
company has tangled with investors, state and federal
regulators, and mortgage insurers over claims that it owes money
for loans made during the housing boom and for its handling of
foreclosures. State attorneys general negotiating a settlement
of foreclosure practices have reached agreements with lenders on
some terms while failing so far to reach an accord on payments
by the banks, a person familiar with the talks said this month.  The battles will be resolved, possibly by the end of the
year, Berkowitz said. “It is only a matter of time before
everyone settles up.”  Yacktman’s Focus  That’s not enough of a reason to buy for Yacktman, whose
$2.9 billion  Yacktman Focused Fund (YAFFX)  returned an average of 13
percent a year in the past decade, topping 99 percent of rivals.
He held one large bank, U.S. Bancorp, as of March 31, Bloomberg
data show.  “With a bank you create assets with a stroke of a pen,”
Yacktman, 69, said in a telephone interview from Austin, Texas.
“You’ve got a black box.”  Paul Singer , founder of hedge fund Elliott Management
Corp., held one bank stock as of Dec. 31, a $65 million stake in
Flagstar Bancorp Inc. of Troy, Michigan, according to Bloomberg
data. Singer, 66, whose New York-based firm oversees $17.1
billion, said in a March interview with the Wall Street Journal
that the “opacity” of bank financial statements means he can’t
assess their strength or sensitivity to changes in interest
rates and asset prices.  Break Them Up  “You don’t know the financial condition of Citigroup,
JPMorgan, Bank of America, any of them,” said Singer, whose
fund gained 14.3 percent a year since 1977 compared with the 11
percent increase for the  S&P 500 Index (SPX) , according to company
data. Scott Tagliarino, a spokesman for the firm, said Singer
wouldn’t comment beyond the interview.  Simon Johnson, a professor at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology’s Sloan School of Management in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, has pushed for breaking up the biggest banks as a
way to make the financial system safer. It would also be a plus
for investors, he said in a telephone interview from  Washington .  “Shareholder value has been destroyed by the opaqueness of
the big banks,” he said. “If you are a shareholder you want to
see them split up. The added transparency would be a virtue.”  Sterling Capital’s Shipp said that while splitting off
businesses such as investment banking would make big banks
easier to understand, the remaining traditional lending business
wouldn’t be too appealing.  “Garden variety banking, with all the competition and
cheap money available, is not very attractive right now.”  Given all the problems facing banks, there are more
compelling places to invest today, he said.  “Who needs the aggravation when I can buy Pepsi or
McDonald’s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  