-- 
Baseball to Seek Off-Field DUI Discipline Option in Labor Negotiations

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-04T19:41:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/baseball-to-seek-off-field-dui-discipline-option-in-labor-negotiations.html
Major League Baseball  will seek the
option to discipline players involved in off-the-field cases
such as driving under the influence when labor contract talks
begin after this season.  “This will be a topic of negotiations this time around,”
Major League Baseball spokesman Pat Courtney said today in a
telephone interview.  Shin-Soo Choo of the  Cleveland Indians  was arrested
yesterday in Sheffield Lake,  Ohio , after tests showed he had a
blood-alcohol level more than double the state’s legal limit.
Choo, who’s from  South Korea , is the sixth major league player
cited on a drunken driving charge this year.  Choo, 28, apologized to fans and teammates after the arrest
and played in  Cleveland ’s 4-1 win over the  Oakland Athletics 
last night.  Baseball’s current collective bargaining agreement, which
expires in December, doesn’t include a provision that allows
baseball Commissioner Bud Selig to punish players for off-field
matters.  “Right now what we do with the union is a result of
informal understandings, there’s nothing in the agreement,”
Courtney said. “The team or commissioner could discipline an
employee for off-duty misconduct. Frankly, with alcohol abuse,
our approach has been one more of making sure the players get
adequate help to keep their careers on track as opposed to pure
discipline.”  MLB Players Association spokesman Greg Bouris declined to
comment.  Cabrera Arrest  Detroit Tigers All-Star first baseman  Miguel Cabrera  was
arrested in February and charged with driving under the
influence during spring training. Cabrera, who finished second
in American League Most Valuable Player voting last season, was
arrested as police watched him drink from a bottle of Scotch as
he sat in his car alongside a Florida road.  Cabrera has played in all 30 games for the Tigers this
season and is hitting a team-leading .352 with seven home runs
and 22 runs batted in.  Adam Kennedy of the  Seattle Mariners , Austin Kearns of the
Indians, Coco Crisp of the Oakland Athletics and Derek Lowe of
the  Atlanta Braves  also have been involved in DUI incidents
within the past four months. None was disciplined.  Courtney said baseball, which has encouraged teams to limit
the availability of alcohol in clubhouses after games, will work
with the players’ union to get a “full handle on what’s going
on” in regard to the DUI cases.  There also will be increased conversation with players
about off-field indiscretions, he said.  “We have ongoing communications with the clubs, including
spring training briefings about issues that can lead to
interaction between players and law-enforcement authorities,”
Courtney said. “We will be looking to step up our communication
with the clubs on these topics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  