-- 
Basel Committee May Let Banks Use CoCos in Capital Surcharge

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-05-04T17:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/basel-regulators-may-let-banks-use-cocos-in-capital-surcharge.html
Global regulators may allow too-big-
to-fail banks to use contingent convertible bonds to meet
additional  capital requirements  designed to save them from
collapse in a crisis.  So-called CoCo bonds, which convert into a bank’s ordinary
shares if a specific trigger event occurs, are being considered
for the capital surcharge by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , said Lars Frisell, chief economist of the Swedish
Financial Supervisory Authority and a member of the Basel
committee. There is some skepticism from regulators who question
how well the instruments will work in practice, he said.  “It’s not set in stone whether it’s going to be common
equity, CoCos, or if a combination will be allowed” in the
surcharge, Frisell, 39, said in an interview in  Stockholm 
yesterday. He expects that CoCos “will play a role.”  Regulators are exploring the use of CoCos to protect
taxpayers from having to foot the bill of future bank rescues.
 Switzerland  proposed that the country’s two largest banks, UBS
AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, could use CoCos to satisfy part
of a capital surcharge imposed at the national level.  “The big question is whether there is a market for
CoCos,” Monika Mars, a PricewaterhouseCoopers AG director in
Zurich, said in a phone interview. “Just because Credit Suisse
managed to issue them does not mean everyone else can issue
them. Credit Suisse is a very good bank and it didn’t need any
money in the crisis.”  Basel Agreement  The details of the surcharge will be “hopefully settled”
at the Basel committee’s next meeting in June, Frisell said. The
committee would then submit a final proposal to the Financial
Stability Board, which can amend the rules, he said.  “In the end, of course, it will be a political agreement
what the surcharge should be for different banks,” Frisell
said.  The FSB brings together finance ministries, regulators and
central banks from the G-20 countries. The Basel committee
brings authorities from 27 countries including the U.K., U.S.
and  China , to set regulatory standards for lenders.  CoCos automatically become equity when preset triggers are
breached, supplying a buffer against losses in a crisis.  “It could only be a good thing” for regulators to give
banks more options on how to meet any surcharge, Patricia
Jackson, head of prudential advisory at Ernst & Young LLP in
 London , said in a phone interview.  Allowing lenders to use CoCos would “expand the market”
for capital raising, enabling banks to “appeal to a wide
variety of bondholders as well as equity holders,” Jackson
said.  ‘Very Expensive’  “Just relying on equity finance could get very expensive”
for banks, Jackson said, as they will all be targeting the same
group of institutional investors.  Most members of the Basel committee are “healthily
skeptical” about CoCos, Frisell said, adding that he didn’t
think this would prevent the securities from forming part of the
surcharge plans.  “Overall, CoCos are actually a good thing,” said Annika Falkengren, chief executive officer at Swedish lender SEB AB,
during a separate interview yesterday. “You buy something, you
get interest on it, but if things go sour, you have to
participate rather than getting paid back first.”  Regulators in the committee had shown more enthusiasm for
CoCos than so-called bail-in debt, Frisell said. Bail-in debt
involves imposing losses on banks bondholders to support a
lender in difficulty.  ‘Death Spiral’  An interim report  published  last month by the U.K.
Independent Commission on Banking said that “a number of
important questions remain to be answered” on using CoCos to
build up banks’ capital, including whether there is a risk of a
“death spiral” if a bank’s capital ratios approach the trigger
point.  “Used in the right way,” a CoCo is “a good instrument,”
Christian Clausen, CEO of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s
largest lender, said in an interview on April 28. “But it has
to be based on concrete criteria and contractual obligations.”  The alternative to CoCos would be a surcharge based on
common equity, which includes mainly ordinary shares and
retained earnings.  The Basel committee has discussed a surcharge of three
percentage points of common equity for the most systemically
important banks, people familiar with the talks have said. A
surcharge of that size is “in the right ballpark,” Frisell
said.  ‘Translation Rule’  Some members of the committee are opposed to having a
surcharge based purely on common equity, Frisell said.  Regulators will need to agree on a “translation rule” for
how many CoCos banks would need to issue to compensate for
holding less common equity in their surcharge, Frisell said.  Calculating such a translation rate would be “very
difficult,” Mars said. “How do you quantify the relative
quality of these instruments?”  Neither the Basel committee nor the FSB have released a
list of the too-big-to-fail banks that will be required to hold
additional capital.  “The usual suspects and a few more” will be on the list,
said Frisell, who has been chief economist of the Swedish FSA
since 2009.  Lenders would welcome the “flexibility” of being able to
include CoCos in the surcharge, Rob McIvor, spokesman for the
Association for Financial Markets in  Europe , said in an e-mail.  “The key will be the framework for setting the rate of
conversion to equity,” McIvor said. “It would need to be based
on a set of principles that would enable banks to develop CoCos
that the market will accept.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 