-- 
BASF’s Bock Says Internal Growth a Priority Over Acquisitions

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-04T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/basf-s-bock-says-internal-growth-a-priority-over-acquisitions.html
BASF SE (BAS)  Chief Executive
Officer-designate Kurt Bock said he plans to prioritize
growing the chemical-maker’s existing businesses as it
integrates the 3.1 billion-euro ($4.6 billion) purchase
of cosmetic-ingredients maker Cognis.  Organic growth is the first priority and the pace of
investment will be accelerated “slightly,” enabling BASF to
meet its goal of growing 2 percentage points faster than the
overall chemical market, Bock told reporters at a May 2 briefing
at the company’s headquarters in Ludwigshafen,  Germany .  “We have increased the pace with acquisitions since 2006,”
said Bock, who is currently BASF’s chief financial officer.
“These acquisitions have been successful. We got the return we
wanted. For the time being, we are still busy with the focus on
integration.”  Bock, who takes over from Juergen Hambrecht on May 6,
helped orchestrate BASF’s purchase of Cognis in December. Under
Hambrecht’s eight-year tenure, BASF acquired companies with
almost 14 billion euros in sales to diversify into specialty chemicals
that are more resilient to economic swings than plastics such as
styrene, used in television sets.  BASF’s annual shareholder meeting this week will mark the
start of Bock’s mandate as CEO. In his final presentation as CEO,
Hambrecht will probably say first-quarter net income rose 65
percent to 1.7 billion euros, according to a survey of analysts
by Bloomberg. Sales gained 15 percent to 17.7 billion euros, the
poll predicted.  ‘Pleasing’ Purchase  BASF is sticking to its target to reach 90 billion euros in
annual revenue by 2020, Bock said. That corresponds to annual
sales growth of about 4 to 5 percent, which the company has
“easily” generated in the past, the CFO said.  Cognis, which competes with companies including Croda
International Plc, is showing “exceptionally pleasing
development,” Bock said.  BASF’s growth will also come from expansion of existing
activities, with the fastest gains coming from  Asia , Bock said.
In  China , BASF is expanding a water-treatment and paper-
chemicals plant at its Nanjing site as well as building a $1.4
billion joint venture plant with China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp., known as Sinopec.  The company plans to pay down debt to keep its  credit
rating , Bock said. BASF, which had 13.5 billion euros in net
debt at the end of 2010, has an A1 rating at Moody’s and an A at
 Standard & Poor’s  on its long-term debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  