-- 
Baucus Will Back Korea Trade Deal as U.S. Seeks Beef Talks

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-05-04T18:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/baucus-will-back-korea-trade-deal-as-u-s-seeks-beef-talks-2-.html
Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  said he will support a pending free-trade agreement with
South  Korea  after the Obama administration said it will pursue
talks with the Asian nation on beef sales.  Baucus, whose committee has jurisdiction over trade, had
faulted President Barack Obama’s administration for failing to
win promises from South Korea to drop restrictions on beef from
older cattle. He said today that a U.S. request for talks was
enough to win his support.  “Our long fight for strong, science-based trade rules
around the world to open foreign markets for American ranchers
-- and keep them open -- took big steps forward today,” Baucus,
a Montana Democrat, said in a statement. “Korea’s age
restriction on U.S. beef is both scientifically unjustified and
inconsistent with international standards.”  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office said today it is
ready to begin talks with Congress tomorrow on legislation
supporting pending free-trade agreements with  South Korea ,
 Colombia  and  Panama . While two deals were ready, lawmakers
refused to consult until Colombia accord was completed, an
administration official told reporters today on a conference
call.  “Colombia has taken the necessary steps” to meet labor
goals set by the U.S., Carol Guthrie, a spokeswoman, said in a
statement. Colombia hired new labor inspectors and passed
legislation to crack down on fraudulent cooperatives. The
Colombia deal won’t be submitted to Congress before June 15, the
next deadline for labor protections Colombia agreed to adopt, a
second U.S. official said.  ‘In Tandem’  “I look forward to working with the administration to pass
these trade agreements in tandem,” House Speaker  John Boehner ,
an Ohio Republican, said today in a statement.  Baucus remained a leading opponent of the South Korea deal
after  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and the United Auto Workers union accepted
assurances the Obama administration negotiated last year on
trade in vehicles. Baucus said in August that “all ages, all
cuts” of beef would need to be allowed into Korea before he
would take up the trade accord. The beef restrictions aren’t
part of the trade agreement, and the talks will be held under a
separate beef deal reached in 2008.  The U.S. said it will ask South Korea’s government to start
negotiations on the beef protocols after the trade agreement
takes effect. The U.S. also will provide increased funding
through the Department of Agriculture to boost exports of beef
into Korea, Baucus said.  John Brinkley, a spokesman for the Korean embassy in
Washington, declined to comment.  Beef Exports  U.S. exports of beef more than doubled to $495 million in
2010, recovering from a collapse triggered by the outbreak of
mad-cow disease that sickened animals in 2003, according to
Commerce Department data. Australia and  Canada  are pursuing
their own free-trade agreements with South Korea, and without
the quick implementation of the U.S. deal, their suppliers may
gain on U.S. producers, according to the American Meat
Institute.  U.S. beef has become a political issue in Korea. President
 Lee Myung Bak  had to apologize in 2008 after agreeing to allow
imports, a decision that triggered candlelight vigils by tens of
thousands of people concerned about  food safety . The protests
prompted U.S. producers to limit exports to cattle younger than
30 months, which may have a lower risk for mad-cow disease.  Young Cattle  More than 90 percent of U.S. beef exports come from animals
younger than 30 months, according to the  National Cattlemen’s
Beef Association , based in Centennial,  Colorado .  Congressional consultations on legislation for each
agreement starts a process for getting a vote on the deals under
so-called fast-track authority. That procedure imposes deadlines
for committees and the House and Senate to consider and vote on
the deals, without amendment or filibuster.  The AFL-CIO labor federation, an ally of the Obama
administration and Democrats in Congress, opposes the three
deal. The United Auto Workers union supports the Korea pact.  “Today marks a momentous occasion in U.S.-Colombia
relations,” said Gabriel Silva, Colombian ambassador to the
U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  