-- 
BBVA May Post Lower First-Quarter Profit, Hurt by Spain Decline

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-05-04T07:24:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/bbva-may-post-lower-first-quarter-profit-hurt-by-spain-decline.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-largest bank, may say first-quarter profit fell
as lower earnings in its home market offset gains in Mexico.  Net income probably declined to 1.08 billion euros ($1.6
billion) from 1.24 billion euros a year earlier, according to
the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of six analysts. The
Bilbao, Spain-based lender is scheduled to report first-quarter
results tomorrow before the stock market opens in Spain.  Spanish banks have been hurt by weakening credit demand and
souring loans in a domestic economy that’s still struggling to
emerge from recession. BBVA, led by Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez ,
completed its $5.8 billion purchase of a 24.9 percent stake in
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  in March as it expands outside  Spain ,
adding Turkey to other emerging markets such as Mexico.  “The news from Spain won’t be good, but there probably
won’t be nasty surprises while Mexico is showing interesting
growth,” said  Pablo Garcia , head of equities at Oddo Sociedad
de Valores in Madrid. “All the big Spanish companies, and that
includes BBVA, are at pains now to show that Spain is a
diminishing part of their business.”  BBVA shares have gained 14 percent this year, compared with
a 2.9 percent advance in the 48-member Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s
largest bank, which on April 28 reported a 5 percent drop in
first-quarter profit, has risen 5.3 percent in 2011.  Mexican Gains  Profit from BBVA’s Spain-dominated Iberian business may
have dropped 33 percent from a year earlier to 394 million
euros, according to estimates by  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  analyst Carlos Joaquim Peixoto. Spain and Portugal together accounted for 45
percent of group profit in 2010.  Earnings from Mexico, which contributed 37 percent of
earnings last year, probably rose 23 percent to 428 million
euros, Peixoto estimated. The Mexican economy may grow 4.37
percent this year, according to a monthly central bank survey of
economists.  BBVA will consolidate 10 days of earnings from Turkiye
Garanti in first-quarter earnings under a new division that will
include Turkish and Chinese investments and its European
business outside Spain, the bank said last month.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  