-- 
Besson Denies Penly EPR Nuclear Reactor Project Is Scrapped

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-04T16:45:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/besson-denies-penly-epr-nuclear-reactor-project-is-scrapped-1-.html
French Industry Minister Eric Besson
has denied a report that a plan to build a second EPR nuclear
reactor in northern  France  has been abandoned.  “The project hasn’t been suspended,” Besson told
reporters in Paris today. “There is no precise timetable.”  France no longer has a schedule for the development of the
next-generation reactor at Penly,  Challenges  magazine reported
today, citing an interview with  Total SA (FP)  Chief Executive Officer
Christophe de Margerie. The project is “apparently” no longer
being studied, he was quoted as saying, adding that Total
remains an investor in the installation.  Electricite de France SA is developing France’s first EPR
at Flamanville in Normandy, slated for commercial operation in
2014 and at a cost which has been revised upwards to 5 billion
euros ($7.4 billion).  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has said that nuclear
power will remain the core of national  energy policy , even as
the accident at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant led countries
including Italy and Germany to retreat from atomic energy.  State-controlled EDF, the biggest operator of nuclear
reactors, was given control of the Penly project by Sarkozy in
January 2009. Construction of that reactor was first scheduled
to start in 2012 and be finished in 2017. The 1,650-megawatt EPR
model was designed by Areva SA.  EDF is pursuing the Penly project, including obtaining the
necessary administrative steps to begin development, Carole
Trivi, a spokeswoman, said today by telephone.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy said yesterday the country
will continue to invest in the nuclear industry.  EDF will decide within about two years whether to develop
the Penly EPR and will look for new partners if needed, Thomas
Piquemal, chief financial officer, said on a conference call in
November. He said a bigger priority for the utility was the EPR
at Flamanville.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 Tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 