-- 
Bin Laden Killed After Wife Shot While Rushing Commando, U.S. Account Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/bin-laden-killed-after-wife-shot-while-rushing-commando-u-s-account-says.html
Osama bin Laden  was unarmed when he
was killed by a U.S. commando and his wife was wounded when she
rushed at an American assault team member, the Obama
administration said in a new narrative that revised some
elements of the accounts given the day after the raid.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters that
initial information about the raid on the terrorist leader’s
compound in Abbottabad,  Pakistan , was released “with great
haste” to inform the public about the operation.  “Obviously some of the information was, came in piece by
piece and is being reviewed and updated and elaborated on,” he
said at a White House briefing, where he read a document
prepared by the Defense Department. “We will continue to gather
and provide to you details as we get them and we’re able to
release them.”  The new accounting of the raid contradicted earlier
statements by administration officials suggesting that bin Laden
was armed and that some women in the compound were used as human
shields. The woman who died was “killed in crossfire” on the
first floor of the building.  Bin Laden “was engaged in a firefight with those that
entered the area of the house he was in,”  John Brennan ,
President  Barack Obama ’s counterterrorism adviser, said at a May
2 briefing. “And whether or not he got off any rounds, I quite
frankly don’t know.” Defense and intelligence officials also
repeated that bin Laden died during a firefight.  Bin Laden’s Wife  The new narrative also clarified conflicting statements
from different officials whether one of bin Laden’s wives had
been killed. While Brennan said it was his “understanding”
that one had been killed, a defense official who briefed
reporters later that same day said the woman with bin Laden was
wounded.  According to the narrative, bin Laden’s wife rushed at the
U.S. commando who cornered the al-Qaeda leader on an upper floor
of his compound and she was shot in the leg before  bin Laden  was
killed. Officials said previously that bin Laden was shot twice,
once in the head and once in the chest.  The account didn’t specify bin Laden’s actions in the last
moments of his life and Carney refused to give any more
specifics about how he resisted.  “Resistance does not require a firearm,” Carney said.
“I’m sure more details will be provided as they come available
and we are able to release.”  Two al-Qaeda couriers also were killed, and Brennan said
bin Laden’s son also died.  ‘Fog of War’  Lawrence Korb, a former Defense Department official, said
modifying or correcting information about a battle is a typical
result of the “fog of war,” which can obscure the initial
accounts of a military operation.  For soldiers engaged in the fight, “the last thing they’ve
got on their mind is ‘we’ve got to give you during the operation
a blow-by-blow,’” said Korb, who is now at the Center for
American Progress, a Washington-based policy research group with
close ties to the White House. “The first report from the field
is usually wrong.”  Obama and his advisers are also still deliberating whether
to release a photo of bin Laden’s body, which U.S. forces
identified through photo comparisons, DNA and other means. The
body, weighted down, was released into the  Arabian Sea  following
a Muslim funeral ritual performed aboard a ship by U.S. military
officers.  ‘Gruesome’ Photo  “It’s fair to say it’s a gruesome photograph,” Carney
said. “There are sensitivities here in terms of
appropriateness,” he said, noting that an image taken after bin
Laden was killed by the commandos “could be inflammatory.”  The director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Leon Panetta, said he expects that a photo ultimately will be
released.  “The White House will make that decision,” Panetta told
reporters after a private briefing for members of the  U.S.
Senate  in Washington.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Democrat from  Montana , said after the
briefing that he expected a photograph would be released
“fairly soon.”  In a separate interview on NBC, Panetta said he didn’t
think “there was any question that ultimately a photograph
would be presented to the public.”  Korb said it’s best to release pictures or video as soon as
possible to prevent people from thinking the administration has
something to hide about the operation.  “If they’ve got pictures, let’s release everything and get
it over with,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in  Washington  at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  