-- 
Obama Says White House Won’t Release Bin Laden Death Photos as ‘Trophies’

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-05-05T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/bin-laden-death-photo-won-t-be-released-obama-tells-cbs-s-60-minutes-.html
President  Barack Obama  decided
yesterday not to release photographic evidence of Osama bin Laden’s death, saying the U.S. shouldn’t exploit such images as
“trophies.”  In an interview with the CBS program “60 Minutes,” Obama
said a release of the “very graphic” photos of the al-Qaeda
leader’s corpse might be used by extremists as propaganda to
incite violence, creating a national security risk.  “We don’t trot out this stuff as trophies,” the president
said, according to excerpts released by  CBS . “The fact of the
matter is, this was somebody who was deserving of the justice
that he received, and I think Americans and people around the
world are glad that he’s gone.”  The president’s decision ended a debate within his
administration over whether to release photos taken after  bin
Laden  was killed during a raid by U.S. special operations forces
on his compound in Abbottabad,  Pakistan .  The U.S. strike also provided a potential trove of
intelligence. Bin Laden had about 500 euros and some phone
numbers sewn into his clothing when he was killed, according to
a government official speaking on the condition of anonymity to
discuss intelligence matters. Authorities also are examining the
contents of computer drives and storage media that were seized
in the raid.  Internal Debate  White House press secretary  Jay Carney , who has described
the photographs as “gruesome,” said Obama had been leaning
against release and took time to get the views of his national
security team. A majority of the president’s advisers were
against publishing the images, he said.  The president’s decision concerns “all visual evidence”
of bin Laden’s death, Carney said, though some of the
information about how the identification was made may be made
available.  Bin Laden’s identity was confirmed through photo
comparisons, DNA and other means, including verification by his
wife at the compound. The body, weighted down, was released into
the  Arabian Sea  following a Muslim funeral ritual performed
aboard a ship by U.S. military officers.  Obama told CBS the steps taken by the U.S. leave “no
doubt” that it was bin Laden, and releasing the images could
serve as a propaganda tool while not helping to sway the opinion
of people who don’t believe the al-Qaeda leader is dead.  “We don’t think that a photograph in and of itself is
going to make any difference,” the president said.  Lawmakers React  Lawmakers, some of whom were briefed by Central
Intelligence Agency Director Leon Panetta, were divided on the
issue of releasing the images.  Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican who is
chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said “the risks
of release outweigh the benefits.”  “Conspiracy theorists around the world will just claim the
photos are doctored anyway, and there is a real risk that
releasing the photos will only serve to inflame public opinion
in the Middle East,” he said in a statement.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said
the photos should be released to “prove” that bin Laden is
dead and that a failure to do so will “unnecessarily prolong
this debate.”  Questions Over Account  Carney continued to face questions yesterday about the U.S.
account of the raid, which was revised by the administration
after initial briefings by White House and Defense Department
officials indicated that bin Laden engaged in a firefight with
the U.S. team and he or other men in the house used women as
shields.  “A lot of information came out quickly,” Carney said.
“When we needed to clarify some of the information that we had
as more information came in, we’ve provided that.”  According to a narrative prepared by the Defense Department
and released by the White House May 3, the woman killed in the
raid was hit by crossfire. Bin Laden’s wife rushed a member of
the assault team and was wounded in the leg. Bin Laden was
unarmed, though he put up unspecified resistance, when he was
shot.  Attorney General  Eric Holder  said yesterday the killing
complied with the law. “The operation against bin Laden was
justified,” Holder told the Senate Judiciary Committee at a
hearing in  Washington . “It’s lawful to target an enemy
commander in the field.”  Holder said bin Laden took no steps to surrender, and the
U.S. actions were “consistent with our values.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  