-- 
Bin Laden Death Means Most Sept. 11 Terror Conspirators Killed or Captured

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-05-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/bin-laden-death-means-most-sept-11-terror-conspirators-killed-or-captured.html
When President  Barack Obama  visits the
site of the Sept. 11 terror attacks tomorrow, he’ll be able to
say that with the death of Osama  bin Laden  the U.S. has caught
or killed almost everyone allegedly responsible for the carnage.  Now U.S. authorities will aim to capture the last major
figure involved in the attacks who remains free, Ayman al- Zawahiri, al-Qaeda’s No. 2 leader. Information on computers and
other items taken from the compound where bin Laden was hiding,
combined with questioning of current detainees, may help lead
them to Zawahiri and new al-Qaeda leaders.  “We have vowed, rightfully so, to track down the people
responsible for 9/11," said James Lindsay, the director of
studies at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  New York .
‘‘People like Zawahiri are potentially more dangerous in
operational terms than bin Laden. He’s often referred to as the
brains behind al-Qaeda.’’  The U.S. is holding seven alleged conspirators in the 2001
attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon at the
military base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Two others were killed in
 Afghanistan  in 2001, according to GlobalSecurity.org, a research
group in Alexandria, Virginia. In addition to Zawahiri, two
other alleged conspirators identified by the National Commission
on Terrorist Attacks Upon the  United States , also known as the
 9/11 Commission , remain at large.  $25 Million Reward  Zawahiri, an Egyptian surgeon who distributes video
messages to bring followers into his radical interpretation of
Islam that legitimizes  suicide bombers , is believed to be hiding
in Southwest Pakistan or Afghanistan, said White House
intelligence adviser  John Brennan  in an interview on  National
Public Radio . The U.S. government is offering a $25 million
reward for information leading to his apprehension or
conviction.  Zawahiri was indicted in the U.S. before the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks for the August, 1998, bombings of U.S. embassies
in Tanzania and  Kenya  that killed 224 people.  He’s listed as one of the ‘‘Most Wanted Terrorists’’ by the
 FBI , which doesn’t have information about his height, weight or
build.  The success in tracking down bin Laden doesn’t guarantee it
will be easier to find Zawahiri, intelligence experts said.  Jigsaw Puzzle  ‘‘They’re sifting through tons of information that comes
across their desks,” Lindsay said. “It’s like being in a
jigsaw puzzle factory where you’re getting a lot of pieces but
you’re not sure they go with the puzzle you’re working on.”  Intelligence officials are likely watching closely any
locations where they think Zawahiri or other al-Qaeda officials
may be hiding “because if you kill  Osama bin Laden  there might
be potential that your guy may move, or there may be a flurry of
activity there,” he said.  Two other men listed as conspirators by the 9/11
commission, Zakariya Essabar and Mushabib al Hamlan, are still
at large.  With bin Laden and most of the organizers of al-Qaeda’s
largest attack dead or captured, the organization is weakened.
“No one can replace bin Laden. He achieved cult-like status,”
said Rick Nelson, director of the Homeland Security and
Counterterrorism Program at the  Center for Strategic and
International Studies  in Washington. Still, many lower level
operatives are likely to try, he said.  ‘Bury the Rest’  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , chairwoman of the Intelligence
Committee, said more than half of al-Qaeda has essentially been
eliminated, even though some have been replaced.  “We’re hoping to bury the rest of al-Qaeda along with bin
Laden,” Brennan said at a briefing this week. “This does not
mean that we are putting down our guard as far as al-Qaeda is
concerned. It may be a mortally wounded tiger that still has
some life in it, and it’s dangerous, and we need to keep up the
pressure.”  Bin Laden was killed May 1 by U.S. commandos in a raid in
 Pakistan  almost 10 years after orchestrating the Sept. 11, 2001,
attack that killed almost 3,000 people. The 19 men who hijacked
the four airliners and flew them into the two World Trade Center
towers, the Pentagon, and a field in  Pennsylvania  were killed.  Another 9/11 mastermind, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, is
awaiting a military trial along with four of his fellow
planners, Walid Bin Attash, Ramzi Bin Al-Shibh, Ali Abdul Aziz
Ali and Mustafa Al-Hawsawi, at the U.S. military base in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Two other alleged planners are being held
at the base and two were reported killed in Afghanistan by
GlobalSecurity.org.  The only person tried for the attacks was Zacarias Moussaoui, a French citizen, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy
and was sentenced to life in prison. Moussaoui said he was part
of the plot to fly planes into buildings but was foiled because
he was arrested in August, 2001, on immigration violations. He
then lied to federal officials about the attack plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in  Washington  at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  