-- 
Bin Laden Death Celebration Shows Desire for Peace: Nafisa Haji

-- B y   N a f i s a   H a j i
-- 
2011-05-04T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/bin-laden-death-celebration-signals-new-era-commentary-by-nafisa-haji.html
The celebrations that erupted outside
the White House and at Ground Zero after President Barack
Obama’s announcement that  Osama bin Laden  had been killed have
been criticized as unseemly. As someone who shared in the
feeling of exhilaration, I would like to believe that the
celebrations were about much more than the death of a mass
murderer.  They were, perhaps a little prematurely, but hopefully not
woefully so, this generation’s version of the  Times Square kiss 
photographed on VJ-day, the end of World War II.  One of the worst strategic mistakes made at the outset of
this conflict, was the narrative framework set up by the  Bush
administration . This was a War on Terror, a war on a tactic of
war itself. Such a war would have no end.  And so, for almost a decade, we have lived out an Orwellian
nightmare, the brunt of suffering and sacrifice borne by those
who serve in our military, along with their families, while the
rest of us got used to color-coded alert systems and getting
felt up at airports.  Our War on Terror led to very modern warfare on a far from
modern nation, one already reduced to rubble by the
misadventures of a former superpower and by years of civil war
between the illiterate, poor bandit fighters who defeated it
with weapons we provided.  The problem with modern warfare is that it is inherently
immoral -- not something conducted on a battlefield, among those
who choose or are chosen to fight, but in the very heart of
civilian life, with women and children suffering the most.
Within weeks of the onset of our war in  Afghanistan , the
civilian deaths there outnumbered our losses on 9/11.  Longest Wars  The most exceptional of American exceptionalists, the neo-
cons of the Bush administration, then led us into another war on
the pretext of the first one, in a country that had no
connection to 9/11. These two wars have been endless, the one in
Afghanistan being the longest in our history, followed by
 Vietnam , and then the war in  Iraq .  Bin Laden’s death was a reminder. This was the real enemy.
And while there will surely be others bent on destruction in his
name and in the name of his al-Qaedist ideology, he was finally
stopped not on a battlefield, but after years of painstaking
intelligence work -- on a nighttime raid that made all those
years of war seem irrelevant and even sordid.  It’s time to end the wars that have created more enemies
than have been conquered. It’s time to move forward. That
realization is what was celebrated on Sunday night.  Lessons Learned  Now, we have to look back to the end of World War II to
plan our next steps. Marshall Plans are in order. Humanitarian
aid and vigilance are required to ensure that no pocket of the
planet becomes a breeding ground for terror, as Afghanistan
became after the  Cold War .  Bombs and guns aren’t needed for that task. Teachers,
doctors and engineers are the ones we need to enlist now.
Democracy will come, sooner or later. One of the lessons that I
hope we have learned in recent months is that freedom can’t be a
genetically engineered crop.  More than anything else,  U.S. foreign policy  must shift to
reflect the best of what America has to offer. No longer can
support for brutal dictators be justified in the name of so-
called strategic interests at the expense of the democratic
aspirations of people around the world. That murky euphemism for
corporate profits and U.S. goals must be redefined.  Shared Humanity  Oil and democracy haven’t mixed and it’s imperative that we
develop sustainable energy to fuel our way of life in order to
avoid the hypocrisies that have defined our relationship with
much of the world for too long.  Let the celebration that erupted on Sunday be a celebration
for a new way of relating to each other, the way that the League
of Nations was born in the aftermath of the first World War and
the  United Nations  formed after the second.  Let us celebrate our shared humanity, our shared global
interest in the support of peace, justice, freedom, and the kind
of prosperity that takes into account the consequences for
nature itself, which is the foundation of all life on the planet
we inhabit. Sunday night can and should be the beginning of the
kind of change that every generation hopes for and that few have
the opportunity to enact. That is truly a reason to celebrate.  (Nafisa Haji is the author of “The Sweetness of Tears”
and “The Writing on My Forehead.” The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Nafisa Haji at  contact@nafisahaji.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  