-- 
Bloomberg Job, Child-Aid Cuts in New York City Budget Face Hostile Council

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-04T17:02:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/bloomberg-faces-a-hostile-nyc-council-with-budget-cutting-jobs-services.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  will
present a $66 billion fiscal 2012 spending plan this week to a
City Council hostile to his proposals to reduce teaching jobs by
8 percent, cut child care and trim fire and police personnel.  Bloomberg today delayed his budget announcement until May 6
from tomorrow so it won’t interfere with President Barack Obama’s visit to the  World Trade Center site . Obama will spend
time with families of victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks. He announced May 1 that  Osama bin Laden , the al-Qaeda
leader behind the strike, was killed by U.S. commandos.  Bloomberg’s cuts, meant to make up for $3 billion less in
state and federal aid, include lower spending on libraries,
cultural amenities and senior-citizens’ centers. Since the mayor
announced them in his Feb. 17 preliminary budget, the cuts have
raised protests from advocacy groups and members of the  council ,
which must approve a budget by the June 30 fiscal year-end.  “This is going to be a very difficult negotiation,” said
Dominic Recchia, chairman of the council’s finance committee.
“We won’t allow the mayor to hurt the core services.”  Changes to the budget since Bloomberg proposed his
preliminary plan in February haven’t been disclosed and some
have yet to be decided, said  Marc LaVorgna , a spokesman. Since
February, the mayor has rejected raising taxes to cover
increasing costs.  Growing Expenses  “Tax revenues seem to be roughly on track to where we had
projected back in February,” Bloomberg said in a City Hall news
conference yesterday. “Our expenses continue to go up. Every
time you turn around, there’s something else that we’ve got to
pay for.”  Pension costs  have increased to a projected $8.4 billion in
fiscal 2012 from $1.5 billion in 2002, when Bloomberg became
mayor. In 2012, the city plans to spend 28 percent of its funds
on education, including $1.86 billion to replace lost U.S. and
state aid, up from 20 percent in 2002, Bloomberg has said.  The city is required to balance its budget or risk a state
takeover. The provision was enacted by the state in the 1970s
after a fiscal crisis almost forced the city into bankruptcy.  The state has made balancing the city budget more
difficult, Bloomberg said, by rejecting his February request for
$600 million in increased aid and for turning down legislation
that would end a $12,000 benefit the city must pay retired
police officers.  Fewer People  “We have a lot less money, which means a lot fewer
people,” Bloomberg said during an April 25 news conference.
“What we have to do is decide, is it going to be fewer cops,
fewer firefighters, fewer teachers, fewer this, fewer that.”  Bloomberg ordered city agencies to reduce spending in 5
percent increments -- 2.5 percent for education and uniformed
services -- 10 times in the past five years to trim costs by
more than $7 billion a year.  His preliminary budget called for eliminating 6,166 of the
city’s 75,000 teaching positions, including 4,666 through
dismissals. Trims to the police department may bring its staff
to about 34,500, the lowest since 1992, reported the Independent
Budget Office, a non-partisan public fiscal monitor.  The council will hold hearings on the budget May 12 through
June 6 before starting negotiations with the administration.  All but six of the 51 council members have asked Bloomberg
to drop his February plan to eliminate more than 16,000 of
42,000 current child-care slots to save more than $90 million.  Long-Run Cost  “Cutting these spaces would wind up costing us more in the
long run if parents have to quit their jobs,” said Recchia, a
Brooklyn Democrat.  The council also opposes reducing teaching positions as
much as contemplated by the mayor, preferring instead to end the
city’s contracts with outside education consultants.  The mayor should have sought and won more concessions from
unions, Recchia said.  “The mayor has to put back some of these services he plans
on cutting,” Recchia said. “I don’t anticipate a last-minute
budget deal. There are many ways we can work this out.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  