-- 
BNP Paribas’s Quarterly Profit Advances 15% on French, U.S. Retail Banking

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-05-04T07:06:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/bnp-paribas-first-quarter-profit-climbs-15-on-french-u-s-retail-banking.html
BNP Paribas SA,  Europe ’s largest bank,
said first-quarter profit rose 15 percent, helped by its French
and U.S. consumer-banking businesses.  Net income advanced to 2.62 billion euros ($3.9 billion)
from 2.28 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company
said in an e-mailed statement today. That beat the 2.22 billion-
euro average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “All three key divisions -- retail, investment solutions
and CIB -- contributed strongly” to the results, Chief
Executive Officer Baudouin Prot said in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  BNP Paribas, like New York-based JPMorgan & Chase Co., took
advantage of competitors’ woes to make takeovers during the
financial crisis, swelling its balance sheet. The bank became
the biggest lender by deposits in the euro region with the
purchase of Fortis’s assets in Belgium and Luxembourg in 2009.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  gained 1.3 euros, or 2.4 percent, to 54.75
euros at 9:02 a.m. in Paris trading. The stock has risen 15
percent this year, compared with a 2.9 percent increase in the
48-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  BNP Paribas’s total retail-banking earnings rose 25 percent
in the first quarter, more than offsetting lower earnings at the
corporate- and investment-banking unit, which fell 4.6 percent
to 1.64 billion euros. That beat analysts’ estimates for
earnings of 1.47 billion euros.  Revenue from the capital-markets and advisory businesses
slumped 15 percent on lower fixed-income sales. Income from
financing gained 6.8 percent to 1.14 billion euros as the energy
and commodity business was “strong” amid high prices, the bank
said.  Competitor Profits  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse Group AG,  Switzerland ’s largest
banks, as well as London-based Barclays Plc last week posted
lower profits as investment-banking earnings tumbled on declines
in fixed-income revenue.  Barclays Capital , the investment-
banking unit, reported a 15 percent drop in revenue in the
quarter, while pretax profit fell by a third. Credit Suisse’s
investment bank recorded a 25 percent decrease in pretax
earnings as income dropped and costs rose.  Both London-based Barclays, run by  Robert Diamond , and
Credit Suisse of Zurich, led by  Brady Dougan , lowered their
profitability goals in February as regulators told banks to hold
more reserves in the wake of the financial crisis. Prot said in
February that BNP Paribas will stick with its target for a
return on equity of 15 percent, a profitability goal he
described as challenging given tougher regulatory requirements.  Fewer Provisions  BNP Paribas’s return-on-equity ratio reached 15.1 percent
in the first quarter, up 0.7 percentage point from a year
earlier, the bank said.  Provisions for doubtful loans in the first quarter fell 31
percent to 919 million euros, helped by an improved economic
environment, the company said. That includes 28 million euros
set aside for its loan portfolios in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said last month
French banks could withstand a default by a euro-area nation as
Greek bond yields surged to a record amid concern the country
will renege on its debt.  “Even in an apocalyptic scenario, only a small fraction of
French banks’ Tier 1 ratio would be compromised,” Noyer said in
a speech in  New York  on April 18. “The same results apply, with
some variations, in other countries.”  Sovereign Debt  French banks’ holdings of southern European sovereign debt
represent 38 percent of their total Tier 1 assets, and it’s 13
percent excluding Italian  government bonds , Noyer said.  BNP Paribas’s common equity Tier 1 ratio, a gauge of its
ability to absorb losses, was 9.5 percent at the end of March,
up from 8.3 percent a year earlier.  Pretax earnings at the French consumer-banking unit rose 14
percent to 579 million euros. Profit before tax at its BancWest
unit in the U.S. amounted to 167 million euros, up 74 percent
from a year earlier.  The branch networks in Belgium and Luxembourg had pretax
profit of 227 million euros, a 3.8 percent drop from a year
earlier. BNP Paribas in February raised its goal for cost
savings and revenue gains from integrating the Fortis assets to
1.2 billion euros by 2012, from a 900 million-euro forecast made
in December 2009. The bank has also revised higher its estimate
of the costs to integrate the assets to 1.65 billion euros from
1.3 billion euros.  Italian Growth  The Europe-Mediterranean unit, which includes retail-
banking networks in countries such as  Turkey ,  Ukraine ,  Tunisia 
and Egypt, had a 3 million-euro pretax profit, compared with a
51 million-euro profit a year earlier.  BNP Paribas’s Italian retail network, Banca Nazionale del
Lavoro SpA, had 136 million euros in pretax profit, up 11
percent from a year earlier. The French lender, which acquired
Rome-based BNL in 2006 for 9 billion euros, has about 920
branches in  Italy  and plans to reach 1,000 by 2013.  Pretax earnings at the investment-solutions unit, which
includes asset management, private banking and insurance, rose
18 percent to 546 million euros, helped by inflows of assets
from private-banking clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  