-- 
BofA, Wells Fargo Mortgage Papers Challenged in North Carolina

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-05-04T23:34:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/bofa-wells-fargo-mortgage-papers-challenged-by-north-carolina-official.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) , lenders already being probed for faulty home foreclosure
practices, were accused by a county official in  North Carolina 
of using mortgage documents that were possibly forgeries.  The signatures of the same names on more than 4,500
documents handled by  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  for real
estate valued at $624.8 million varied enough to raise doubts
about their validity, Jeff Thigpen, register of deeds in
Guilford County, North Carolina, told reporters today in
Greensboro.  Most of the documents were certificates of satisfaction
filed on behalf of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, Bank of
America, based in  Charlotte , North Carolina, and other
institutions showing the payoff of home mortgages, he said.
Thigpen said defective documents may harm a person’s ability to
get a loan if there are doubts about the legitimacy of the
paperwork discharging a previous mortgage.  “Investigators need to look at all of this, including the
possibility of forgery,” Thigpen said in an interview. “I
don’t know if the people who signed the documents were
authorized to sign the documents or if they were who said they
said were. It is all very questionable.”  Thigpen’s allegations, covering paperwork from 2008 through
2010, follows complaints that banks relied on so-called
robosigners, who allegedly processed and signed foreclosure
documents without verifying the facts of the cases.  ‘No Risk’  Jason Menke , a Wells Fargo spokesman, said the bank’s
practices regarding certificates of satisfaction are
“appropriate and pose no risk or harm to homeowners in the
Carolinas or anywhere else.”  Michelle Kersch, a spokeswoman for Lender Processing
Services, said by e-mail that when the company learned of
improper signing practices at its subsidiary Docx in November
2009 the process was halted, clients notified and the unit
ultimately shut down.  “The signing procedures at Docx were not consistent with
LPS’s policies and practices nor were they approved of by LPS’s
senior management,” she said.  Jumana Bauwens, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, didn’t
respond to an e-mail and phone call seeking comment.  “There are 4,000 people here who may have paid off their
loans but we don’t know because the paperwork is bad,” said
Thigpen, 40, the register since 2004. “That is the ticking time
bomb. Somebody somewhere who has authority for this has got to
fix it.”  Federal Reserve   Thigpen said he will send his office’s findings to the
Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and other
federal regulators. He also plans to ask lenders including Bank
of America and Wells Fargo as well as Merscorp Inc., which runs
an electronic registry of mortgages, to submit documents to
correct defective paperwork.  Karmela Lejarde, a spokeswoman for Merscorp, declined to
comment.  Thigpen said he’ll also ask a group of  attorneys general 
that are leading a 50-state probe into foreclosure and mortgage-
servicing practices to investigate the matter.  The Guilford County investigation represents “the very
first time we have actual findings,” said Lynn Szymoniak, an
attorney in West Palm Beach,  Florida , who has represented
homeowners in document cases.  “We have plenty of people doing investigations,” Szymoniak
said. “But we never see data come out of these investigations.
This is a blueprint for other offices all around the country,”
she said.  The attorneys general and federal agencies, including the
 Justice Department , are negotiating a settlement with five banks
that are the top mortgage servicers in the U.S. The banks are
Bank of America, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup
Inc. and Ally Financial Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro at
   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 