-- 
BP U.S. Filling Station Operators Sue Over Sales Software

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-04T22:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/bp-filling-station-operators-sue-over-sales-software.html
BP filling station operators in the
western U.S. sued  BP Plc (BP/)  seeking $200 million in damages over
allegations the company’s sales and inventory software they are
forced to use is “an unmitigated disaster.”  A group of BP, Arco and AM/PM Mini Market franchisees,
based in  California , Oregon and  Washington , said in a complaint
filed today in state court in  Los Angeles  that the software
program they were forced to buy for as much as $35,000
overcharges some customers, doesn’t charge others, and
periodically crashes.  The franchisees said the software program, in which BP had
invested, is but one instance in which they had a contract
forced upon them. They can buy only from suppliers that pay BP a
fee, and BP’s refusal to approve alternative vendors suggested
by the franchisees has cost them tens or hundreds of thousands
of dollars in damages, according to the complaint.  “This is because the BP ‘approved’ vendors charge higher
prices than the ‘alternative’ vendors proffered by the BP
franchisees,” the station operators said in the complaint.
“This is not surprising since the BP vendors have to recoup the
monies that they pay to BP for the privilege of being on BP’s
selected list.”  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, said the company had no comment
on the lawsuit.  The franchisees accuse BP of fraud and breach of contract,
and in addition to damages, they seek a court order prohibiting
BP from entering into exclusive arrangements with vendors who
sell to the filling stations.  The case is Hoskin Hogan v. BP West Coast Products,
BC460880, Los Angeles County Superior Court (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  