-- 
Branson Prioritizes Alliance as Virgin Atlantic Mulls Future

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-05-04T11:18:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/branson-says-alliance-a-priority-as-virgin-atlantic-mulls-future.html
U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson  said
he’s exploring all options for Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. and
hasn’t set a deadline for a decision on whether to sell it.  Talks on membership of an airline alliance are ongoing, and
joining up with rivals has become a more pressing concern after
the initiation of a trans-Atlantic partnership between British
Airways and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  following a 13-year
campaign for antitrust approval, Branson said in an interview.  “We opposed that deal and it may make it more of an
imperative for us to look at our own alliances,” Branson said by
phone from Sydney. “The discussions are still taking place with
Virgin Atlantic and time will see what the result is.”  Branson, 60, is studying options for his 51 percent stake
in Virgin Atlantic after hiring Deutsche Bank AG to assess its
strategy. The entrepreneur, who founded the carrier in 1984, had
sought to block the accord between BA and AMR which effectively 
allows the pair to operate as a single airline on lucrative   
business routes between London's Heathrow airport and the U.S.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , which owns 49 percent of Crawley, 
England-based Virgin Atlantic, said in March it hadn’t made a
decision about its stake.  Partnering Up  British Airways, Virgin’s biggest rival at Heathrow, is in
the Oneworld alliance alongside AMR, while  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group,
 Europe ’s biggest carrier, is a member of SkyTeam and Deutsche 
Lufthansa AG is in the Star group.  Airline alliances allow carriers to offer a wider network
of flights, share lounges and in some cases to reduce common
costs, and are likely to form a template for mergers within 
the industry, according to  Willie Walsh , chief executive officer
of BA's parent, International Consolidated Airlines Group SA.  Branson spoke after announcing that Brisbane-base Virgin
Blue Holdings Ltd. would change its name to Virgin  Australia ,
adopt a new livery and upgrade its cabins in an effort to win
business passengers from  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)   While there’s “a logic” to all Virgin-brand carriers
joining the same alliance, that will “not necessarily” happen,
according to Branson.  “It depends which partners we look at,” he said. “From
Virgin Australia’s perspective it has been very effective to go
airline-by-airline with alliances. That may not necessarily be
the best for Virgin Atlantic, but all options are there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Sydney via 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  