-- 
Brazil’s Dollar Inflows Plunged 88% in April on Foreign Loan Tax Increase

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-05-04T20:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/brazil-s-dollar-inflows-plunged-88-in-april-on-foreign-loan-tax-increase.html
Brazil ’s tax increase on foreign loans
and debt sales to shield itself from the global currency war
helped reduce by 88 percent the number of dollars that entered
the country last month.  Brazil received a net $1.54 billion in April from trade and
investments, down from $12.7 billion in March and $2.25 billion
in April 2010, according to data published by the central bank
today.  Even as inflows stalled, the real strengthened 3.6 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  last month. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told lawmakers yesterday that he won’t rule out taking
additional steps to stem gains by the currency, whose 32 percent
rally over the past two years is the third-biggest among major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  While measures to curb dollar inflows are having an effect,
it’s likely to be short-lived, said  Tony Volpon , Latin America
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “Incentives to bring money
into this environment are just very large, and investors will
find ways,” Volpon said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“They can’t just close down the borders.”  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  issued a decree March 29
increasing to 6 percent a tax on international bond sales and
loans with an average minimum maturity up to 360 days. A few
days later, she applied the higher tax to renewed, renegotiated,
or transferred loans of up to two years. Companies previously
paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans up to 90 days and zero tax when
the duration exceeded three months.  In October, Mantega tripled to 6 percent the so-called IOF
tax on foreign investors’ fixed-income purchases.  April Inflows  Inflows to  Latin America ’s biggest economy reached $37.1
billion in the first four months this year, 52 percent more than
the $24.4 billion it received in the whole of 2010, according to
the central bank’s report today.  A $1.77 billion outflow of dollars related to investments
last month, the first since December, was offset by $3.31
billion in trade flows resulting from higher prices for the
nation’s soy, beef and iron-ore exports.  Dollar inflows caused by high levels of international
liquidity are inflationary and could destabilize Brazil’s
financial system if left unchecked, central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said yesterday.  Foreign direct investment into Latin America and the
Caribbean may grow 15 percent to 25 percent this year, the
 United Nations ’  Economic Commission  for Latin America and the
Caribbean said in a report distributed in  Mexico  today. The
central bank forecasts $55 billion of FDI will enter Brazil this
year.  Yields on interest rate futures market rose in 18 out of 24
contracts traded on the BM&F Bovespa stock exchange today.
Yields on the contract maturing January 2012, the most traded,
rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage points, to 12.35
percent at 2:45 p.m. New York time. The real fell 1.05 percent
to 1.6042 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:’
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  