-- 
Buffett Delights in Brazil-China as Marcopolo-Lonking: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-05-04T20:39:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/buffett-delights-when-brazil-meets-china-as-marcopolo-to-lonking-real-m-a.html
Warren Buffett ’s search for deals in
Brazil and China may put companies from  Marcopolo SA (POMO3)  to
 Odontoprev SA (ODPV3)  and  Lonking Holdings Ltd. (3339)  on his wish list.  The 80-year-old billionaire investor and chairman of Omaha,
Nebraska-based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  said at a news conference
on May 1 after its shareholder meeting that Brazilian companies
are on his “radar screen” and that he would be “delighted to
buy businesses in China” as well as Hong Kong. Buffett’s
comments came less than two months after he agreed to purchase
Wickliffe, Ohio-based Lubrizol Corp. for about $9 billion.  The world’s most successful investor is looking outside the
U.S. with emerging economies forecast to grow twice as fast as
developed nations and near-zero percent interest rates limiting
returns in fixed-income markets. Marcopolo,  Brazil ’s biggest
busmaker, Odontoprev, the country’s largest provider of dental
plans, and Lonking, one of China’s biggest makers of
construction equipment, are among 27 companies from Brazil and
China that meet the acquisition criteria listed in Buffett’s
annual report, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “One of the reasons he’s been traveling the globe is to
try to find something that makes sense that he can understand in
growing economies,” said  Barry James , who oversees $2.5 billion
as president of James Investment Research Inc. in Xenia,  Ohio .
“It’ll probably be in the next year or two that he’ll be doing
some of these international deals.”  His James Balanced Golden Rainbow Fund has beaten 94
percent of competitors in the past five years.  First Takeover  Buffett didn’t return a request for comment e-mailed to his
assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  A takeover in either Brazil or  China  of a publicly traded
company would be a first for Berkshire, which has struck at
least $50 billion of acquisitions in the U.S. in the past decade
for public companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Berkshire owns a stake in BYD Co., the Shenzhen, China-
based automaker, through its MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co.
unit. Shares of BYD had more than tripled through yesterday
since Buffett agreed to buy 225 million shares of the company in
September 2008.  Economies in emerging markets will grow 6.5 percent in
2011, according to estimates from the Washington-based
 International Monetary Fund . That compares with 2.4 percent for
developed nations. China, the world’s fastest growing major
economy, will expand by 9.5 percent in 2011, according to the
median of 11 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Delighted’  “We’d buy businesses in  Hong Kong ,” Buffett said at the
press conference on May 1 in Omaha,  Nebraska , a day after
Berkshire’s annual meeting of shareholders. “We’re delighted to
buy businesses in China too.”  Buffett typically prefers “simple” businesses with pretax
profit exceeding $75 million, “consistent” earning power, and
“good” returns on equity while employing little or no debt,
according to his  annual letter  to shareholders on Feb. 26.  He has shifted his takeover strategy as Berkshire has grown
to focus on “capital intensive businesses,” such as power
producers and railroads, which require consistent investment in
infrastructure and equipment.  Buffett, who agreed to buy Lubrizol in March, said at
Berkshire’s annual meeting that “we can’t do a really big
elephant now.” Lubrizol was recommended to Buffett by  David Sokol , former chairman of Berkshire’s MidAmerican Energy unit.  Sokol, 54, who resigned on March 30, violated Berkshire’s
insider-trading rules and misled the company about his personal
stake in Lubrizol, Berkshire’s audit committee said last week.  ‘Ideas Anyplace’  Berkshire, which usually keeps at least $20 billion in cash
on hand, had about $38 billion at the end of the first quarter,
according to Buffett.  There are 27 companies from Brazil and China with market
values from $1 billion to $15 billion that have capital expenses
accounting for at least 5 percent of their net fixed assets; a
return on equity exceeding 10 percent; profit growth in the past
five years that ranked in the top 50 percent; and an average
price-earnings ratio in that span that was less than the average
company in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  So-called value investors such as Buffett also purchase
companies when their stock prices are low by historical
standards when compared with earnings.  “We don’t go looking in specific countries. We are looking
for ideas anyplace,” Buffett said at the May 1 press
conference. “Most of our opportunities will come in the  United
States . Whether it’s three out of four or whatever it may be.”  Empire Building  Berkshire, which has a market capitalization of $204
billion, owns 10 insurers including Geico and more than 60 other
companies from food distributor McLane Co. and clothing-maker
Fruit of the Loom to toolmaker Iscar Metalworking Cos. and
utility MidAmerican Energy.  Marcopolo, with a market value of 3 billion reais ($1.9
billion), has traded at an average of 11.2 times profit in the
past five years, 84 percent cheaper than the average company in
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of  21 developing countries , data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Caxias Do Sul, Brazil-based
company’s return on equity, a measure of how much it earns for
each dollar invested, doubled to 35 percent last year. That
compares with 21 percent for MSCI’s developing markets gauge.  Net income for the maker of bus frames and bodies more than
doubled to 296.5 million reais last year as the 62-year old
company’s comparable sales increased 44 percent.  Marcopolo’s external press office in  Sao Paulo  didn’t
respond to a telephone call and an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘A Big Country’  “The more mobile people are, the more they are going to
need additional transportation,” said  Peter Sorrentino , who
helps oversee $14.4 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in
Cincinnati. “Brazil is a big country. You have a lot of
distances to cover and not necessarily a lot of airport access.
That’s a nice business that would fold in well.”  Berkshire’s recreational vehicle maker Forest River Inc.
includes divisions such as  Starcraft Bus , which makes shuttle
and school buses.  Shares of Marcopolo rose 2.4 percent to 6.96 reais in Sao
Paulo today.  Odontoprev, the dental-plan provider with a market value of
$2.93 billion, reported 219 million reais in earnings last year,
a 12-fold increase from 2005, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Barueri, Brazil-based company’s return on equity
was 28 percent last year, higher than the average for the 809-
company MSCI Emerging Markets Index, the data show.  Net income also increased more than 95 percent of companies
in the gauge in the past five years.  ‘An Honor’  Its shares, which reached a record high in November, have
climbed 81 percent in the last 12 months, compared with a 4.2
percent decline in Brazil’s Bovespa Index and an 18 percent gain
in MSCI’s emerging markets gauge.  Odontoprev advanced 2.7 percent to 26.95 reais today.  The stock was raised to “buy” in February by Daniel Gewehr, a Sao Paulo-based analyst for Banco Santander SA, who
said  job creation  and low unemployment will boost plan
enrollment. Brazil’s jobless rate fell to a record 5.3 percent
in December, according to the national statistics agency.  “It would be an honor and a privilege to have the
acknowledgement of Mr. Buffett’s management team,” Jose Roberto Pacheco, investor relations officer for Odontoprev, said in an
e-mail. The company hasn’t been contacted by Buffett, he said.  MetLife Inc. of  New York , the largest U.S. life insurer,
purchased Odonto A Saúde Empresarial in 2008 to enter Brazil’s
dental insurance market.  “We’re waiting for a call,” Buffett said during the May 1
press conference, referring to opportunities in Brazil.  “Brazil itself is doing extraordinary,” he said. “I got
offered a big deal in Brazil some time ago, but the price did
not make any sense.”  Wheel Loaders  Brazil’s gross domestic product increased 7.6 percent last
year, more than double the U.S.’s 2.9 percent growth, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s Lonking, which had an average price-earnings ratio
of 12.4 times over the past five years, increased net income
more than sevenfold in the same span, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Analysts now project revenue at the Shanghai-based company
will top $2.5 billion for the first time next year.  A representative from Lonking’s investor relations
department declined to comment.  Lonking, which started in 1993 and currently has a market
value of $2.95 billion, has sold more wheel loaders than any
other company in the world since 2006, according to its  website .
Wheel loaders are used to scoop and load material at quarries
and construction sites.  Its return on equity was 39 percent last year, almost twice
as much as the average company in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Big in China’  “There’s going to be an enormous amount of infrastructure
projects going forward and there’s a preference for the Chinese
to buy their own products,” said Thomas A. Russo, who manages
about $4 billion at Gardner Russo & Gardner in Lancaster,
 Pennsylvania . “Those businesses are going to be really big in
China and Lonking may enjoy a favored status. It could make
sense for Buffett.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. of New York in January recommended
that investors buy shares of Lonking because China’s
urbanization will drive demand for construction machinery. The
stock has climbed 87 percent in dollar terms in the past year.
The stock fell 4.3 percent to HK$5.34 today.  Overall, there have been 8,347 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $827.3 billion, a 24 percent increase from
the $669.3 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at +1-212-617-2432 or  dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 