-- 
Caesars Entertainment Unit Seeks to Amend, Extend Loans

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-05-04T15:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/caesars-entertainment-unit-seeks-to-amend-extend-loans-2-.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp., the
world’s biggest casino company, is seeking to amend its senior
secured credit agreement to extend the maturities in exchange
for higher borrowing costs.  Caesars Entertainment Operating Co. plans to extend the
maturity of its B1, B2 and B3 loans by three years to January
2018, in exchange for increased  interest rates  on the extended
debt, the Las Vegas-based company said today in a regulatory
filing.  The former Harrah’s is also attempting to convert as much
as $816 million of revolving credit lines to term loans. Those
lenders that want to remain lenders to the revolver are being
asked to push out the maturity by one year to January 2015,
according to the filing. In addition, Harrah’s is requesting
lenders change the terms of the credit facility to allow the
company to buy back loans at negotiated levels below par.  Bonds of Caesars rose in trading to the highest level since
February following the filing of the document.  The company’s $3.3 billion of 10 percent notes due in
December 2018 increased 2.1 cents to 95.1 cents on the dollar as
of 10:26 a.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
That’s the highest level since Feb. 18, Trace data show.  Ceasar’s B1 term loan rose to 94.452 cents on the dollar
this morning, up from 93.879 cents yesterday, according to
information provider Markit Group Ltd.  Caesars canceled a planned initial public offering last
year, after Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gary Loveman
reduced costs, slashed debt and extended maturities in a series
of balance sheet restructurings. Las Vegas casinos are beginning
to recover following record declines since Caesars was taken
private in a January 2008 buyout.  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management LLC and  David Bonderman ’s TPG Capital took Caesars private for $30.7 billion,
including debt and transaction costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 