-- 
California Income Tax Revenue Is Running $2.3 Billion Ahead of Projections

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-05-04T23:21:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/california-income-tax-revenue-is-running-2-3-billion-ahead-of-projections.html
California  has collected $2.3 billion
more from income taxes this fiscal year than was projected, a
gain that may help Governor  Jerry Brown  and lawmakers fill what
remains of a $26 billion deficit.  Income-tax collections, which compose about  55 percent  of
general-fund revenue, were  5.1 percent  above what was
anticipated for July 1 through April 30, the nonpartisan
Legislative Analyst’s Office said in a  report  today. At the same
time, corporate taxes were $654 million below projections.  While Brown and lawmakers have erased about $11 billion of
the deficit with spending cuts and internal loans and transfers,
they are deadlocked over how to eliminate the rest. Brown, a 73-
year-old Democrat, wants voters to extend more than $11 billion
of expiring taxes and fees opposed by Republicans.  Not all of the better-than-projected revenue may help with
the deficit, said H.D. Palmer, a spokesman for Brown’s budget
office. The state constitution requires about 40 percent of any
additional receipts to go toward schools. In addition, some
savings written into Brown’s January budget proposal won’t
materialize because lawmakers failed to enact them by March 1.  “It in no way lessens the need to finish the task,”
Palmer said.  Income-tax collections in  April , when about 15 percent of
those receipts come in for the year, were $241 million above
projections, according to state Controller John Chiang.  Brown is scheduled to revise his budget May 16 when he
unveils the latest revenue projections for the fiscal year that
begins July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  