-- 
Cameron U.K. Coalition May Be Rattled in Referendum Face-Off, Local Votes

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-05-05T08:50:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/cameron-u-k-coalition-may-be-rattled-in-referendum-face-off-local-votes.html
Britons vote today in elections,
including the first national referendum in 36 years, that may
rattle Prime Minister  David Cameron  and his deputy,  Nick Clegg ,
and boost the Scottish nationalists.  Both Cameron’s  Conservative Party  and Clegg’s Liberal
Democrats are set to lose seats in local elections across
 England , polls suggest. One will lose the plebiscite on
overhauling the voting system.  Liberal Democrats backing a “Yes” vote for change accuse
the Conservatives of lying in their campaign for a “No” to
preserve the status quo. A plan is in place to boost whichever
party loses, to help hold the coalition together. Polls indicate
a “No” is the likely outcome.  “Some of the Liberal Democrat activist base will be
saying: ‘What have we gone into coalition for?’ Especially if a
‘No’ vote on the referendum is accompanied by a poor showing in
the local elections,”  Andrew Russell , who teaches politics at
the  University of Manchester , said in a telephone interview.
“The coalition will survive, but it could be part of a long-
term process of destabilizing support for the leadership.”  Local-election results will start coming in overnight. The
votes from the referendum won’t be counted until tomorrow
afternoon.  The head of the opposition  Labour Party ,  Ed Miliband , may
also suffer a setback, with polls suggesting Labour won’t regain
power from the nationalists in elections to the Parliament in
Scotland, its stronghold for almost 50 years.  Softening the Blow  In the local elections, 9,458 of the 18,249 council seats
in England are being contested today. Both the Liberal Democrats
and Conservatives have been managing expectations to soften the
blow of losses one year after ousting Labour Prime Minister
 Gordon Brown  from power and forming their coalition.  Labour’s support in national opinion polls has risen as the
coalition has embarked on the deepest budget cuts since World
War II to narrow a deficit that swelled to a record under Brown.
Clegg’s party has been hardest hit after policy U-turns that
included the ditching of a pledge not to increase college
tuition fees.  The Conservatives have told activists to expect to lose as
many as 1,100 seats, and they see Labour gaining between 1,300
and 1,800, according to a person familiar with the calculations.  “For the Conservatives, less than a 1,000-seat loss would
not be too bad. Over that number isn’t good after one year in,”
said Robert Waller, co-author of “The Almanac of British
Politics.” “Labour need to gain over 1,000 seats to confirm a
national lead, and over 1,300 would be very good. If the  Lib
Dems  lose less than 400, that counts as getting away with it,
while over 600 would be very bad.”  Voting System  Polls also suggest a defeat for Clegg in the referendum on
a new system for electing House of Commons lawmakers. The
 Liberal Democrat  leader made the holding of a national vote a
condition for joining Cameron’s government.  An ICM Ltd. poll published in today’s Guardian newspaper
put the “Yes” vote at 32 percent to 68 percent voting “No.”
ICM surveyed 1,035 adults May 2-3. A YouGov Plc poll for The Sun
newspaper found “No” ahead by 60 percent to 40 percent. YouGov
questioned 5,725 people May 3 and yesterday.  The referendum campaign has exacerbated tensions within the
coalition. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne , who lost to Clegg by
500 votes out of 41,000 in the race for the Liberal Democrat
leadership in 2007, was forced to deny he is making a new bid to
head the party after outspoken criticism of the Tories.  Goebbels Comparison  Huhne compared the “No” camp’s tactics to those of the
Nazi propaganda chief, Joseph Goebbels, and threatened to sue
over allegations of financial impropriety in the “Yes”
campaign.  The  BBC  and other U.K. media  reported  that the energy
secretary clashed with Conservative ministers during a Cabinet
meeting two days ago. Huhne called suggestions he might
challenge Clegg “a completely ridiculous bit of hypothesis” in
a May 1 interview with Sky News television.  Under the current “first past the post” system, voters
mark a single candidate, and the person with the most votes in
each district wins. This means smaller parties that can’t
concentrate their support in a single place don’t win seats. In
2010 the Lib Dems won 23 percent of the vote and 9 percent of
the seats in Parliament. The Conservatives, with 37 percent of
the vote, got 47 percent of the seats.  Alternative Vote  Under the “Alternative Vote,” the system the Liberal
Democrats are backing, people can mark their candidates in order
of preference. The candidate receiving the least support is
eliminated, and their votes are redistributed according to
people’s second choices. This process continues until someone
has more than half the votes.  A study by the  Electoral Reform Society  suggested the
Liberal Democrats would have won 22 more seats and the
Conservatives 26 fewer in the 650-member  House of Commons  under
AV in last May’s elections.  If the polls are wrong, though, and the Conservatives lose
the AV vote, it will fuel unrest among lawmakers who already
feel that their party has lost out as a result of the coalition.
Some also blame Cameron for failing to deliver outright victory
over Brown last year.  Scottish Vote  In  Scotland , polls suggest losses for both coalition
parties. A YouGov Plc poll published last night showed that
First Minister  Alex Salmond ’s pro-independence  Scottish National
Party , bidding for a second term, may win 54 seats in the 129-
seat Parliament in Edinburgh to Labour’s 46, according to the
Glasgow-based Herald newspaper.  Though Labour support is up from the last elections in 2007
at the expense of the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats, the
polls suggest, the SNP has done even better.  In 2007,  Labour  won only one fewer seat than the SNP, which
formed a minority government. The Liberal Democrats are set to
drop from 16 members of the Scottish Parliament to seven,
according to the poll, adding to Clegg’s woes.  “The pressure on Clegg will be considerably higher after
the AV vote, particularly if it’s a strong ‘No,”  Steven Fielding , the director of the Centre for British Politics at
Nottingham University, said in a telephone interview. “The idea
of electoral reform is at the heart of the Liberal Democrats’
very being. This could make him look like a complete idiot.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  