-- 
Canadian Large-Stock Growth Funds Perform Worst in 6 Years

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-05-04T19:58:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/canadian-large-company-growth-funds-perform-worst-in-six-years.html
Growth funds that buy the biggest
Canadian stocks posted their worst performance in six years
versus the S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index during the
first quarter, Russell Investments said.  Four of the 18 actively managed institutional funds
specializing in larger capitalization companies in Russell’s
survey beat the total return of the Canadian stock benchmark,
the lowest percentage since the third quarter 2004. The funds
suffered from “overweight” positions in gold stocks and in
 Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  while having a smaller share of their
holdings in financial companies than that industry’s weighting
in the index, Kathleen Wylie, a Toronto-based analyst at
Russell, wrote in a report today.  “The big issue was gold and materials,” said Andrew Parkinson, a  money manager  whose Van Arbor Canadian Advantage
Fund has trailed the S&P/TSX this year after doubling its return
in the previous five years. “Gold was quite hot for some time.
We’re starting to see that cooling off right now.”  The S&P/TSX returned 5.6 percent with dividends in the
first quarter, led by financial and energy stocks, compared with
a 4.4 percent average return for the funds, according to
Russell. Gold companies declined as the metal gained the least
in seven quarters. Teck,  Canada ’s largest base-metals and coal
producer, plunged 17 percent as severe weather interfered with
coal transportation in British Columbia.  Growth or Value  Growth funds specialize in companies that managers think
are going to get bigger or increase earnings, as opposed to
value funds, which buy stocks thought to be underpriced.  Almost 80 percent of growth-fund managers had overweight
positions in Teck at the beginning of the year, Wylie wrote. She
said 74 percent of the managers held BlackBerry maker  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , which slipped 2.7 percent as it forecast
earnings below analyst estimates.  Fifty-nine percent of 29 value-fund managers beat the
S&P/TSX, the most in four quarters. The value funds, which
tended to be underweight materials stocks and overweight
financial companies, returned an average of 6.2 percent.  Holdings of  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , which rallied 15 percent
in the quarter, and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , which advanced 16
percent, boosted the value funds, Wylie wrote.  Among 37 funds specializing in smaller Canadian companies,
70 percent had a higher return than the S&P/TSX Smallcap Index,
the most since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  