-- 
Canada Seen Rebounding as Currency of Choice in Harper Mandate

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-05-04T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/canada-seen-rebounding-as-currency-of-choice-in-harper-mandate.html
Investors worldwide have a reason to
make  Canada  the economy of choice after Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s decisive election earlier this week ratified policies
that helped the government outperform most of its peers among
the Group of Seven industrialized countries.  After the  Conservative Party  won the first majority in the
Ottawa-based House of Commons in seven years, Harper vowed to
fulfill his pledge to eliminate the  budget deficit  by 2014 and
cut corporate taxes and spending.  The Canadian dollar may be an early winner after sliding
for a month against almost all major currencies on concern that
Harper’s push for control would fail. The currency may be buoyed
by forecasts that Canada’s growth will match the U.S. as the
fastest in the G-7 after recouping the jobs lost during the
recession.  Societe Generale  SA and ING Financial Markets, the
two most bullish forecasters, see the currency gaining 3.4
percent versus the U.S. dollar by year-end, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The election of a government with a pro-business agenda
is good for risk assets such as the currency, stocks and bond
spreads,” said Ed Devlin, a London-based portfolio manager at
Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
largest bond fund. The currency will be well-supported by its
economy, Devlin said, citing “fundamental strengths to Canada
relative to the rest of the G-7.”  Keeping Up  Societe Generale and ING anticipate the currency
strengthening to 92 cents to the U.S. dollar by year-end, from
95.24 cents yesterday, Bloomberg data show. Strategists are
struggling to keep up with the so-called loonie’s gains,
boosting their median year-end estimate to 97 cents from $1.01
in January.  The victory by Harper, 52, came three weeks after the
 International Monetary Fund  predicted the world’s 10th largest
economy will expand 2.8 percent this year, while inflation will
end the year near the Bank of Canada’s 2 percent target. An
average unemployment rate of 7.6 percent will be bettered only
by Japan and Germany in 2011. At 84 percent, Canada’s gross
government debt as a proportion of its economy is smaller than
the 100 percent level projected for the U.S., according to the
Washington-based lender.  Canada weathered the financial crisis better than the rest
of the G-7 even as pressures from abroad tipped it into
recession and sent its jobless rate to a four-year high. Still,
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and the country’s other 20 banks received
no public money during the credit turmoil, and the country’s
financial regulations have inspired reforms elsewhere.  Policy Certainty  Certainty in policy making may also set Canada apart, said
 Geoffrey Yu , a currency strategist at UBS AG in  London . The U.K.
and Germany are run by coalition governments, French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  have become
unpopular with their electorates, while in the U.S., Democratic
President Barack Obama must negotiate with a Republican-run
House of Representatives.  “Canada is now one of the few G-7 economies which will
enjoy a stable, majority government which is not at risk of
being deadlocked or even brought down, either by coalition
friction or constitutional separation,” said Yu. “This will
allow the Canadian dollar to enjoy a strong political premium
and outperform.”  Canada’s status as the G-7’s only major exporter of
commodities gives it another advantage,  Bank of Canada  Deputy
Governor  John Murray  said Feb. 10. Goods such as oil and wheat
make up about 11 percent of Canada’s gross domestic product and
one-third of its exports. Wheat futures have jumped 58 percent
in the past year on the Chicago Board of Trade, and oil futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  have climbed 29
percent.  Energy ‘Superpower’  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty called Canada an energy
“superpower” in a Dec. 9 speech in  New York , noting the
country is the world’s second-largest producer of nickel and
third-largest producer of aluminum and natural gas.  Canada’s dollar could be as big a winner as Harper this
week, said  Greg Anderson , a senior currency strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in New York. After proving the best performing
currency in the G-7 over the past two years, the loonie fell
almost 3 percent against the euro and yen in the month before
the election and more than that versus the Australian dollar and
Swiss franc. It gained 1 percent against the  U.S. dollar .  The election result reduces the risk that the coalition
partners would impose a constant threat of early polls or deal-
making, and it empowers fiscally conservative policy makers to
open up to foreign investment, Anderson said.  Pre-Election Speculation  “A Conservative victory should be a long-term positive,”
he said. He predicts the currency may strengthen to C$1.02 per
Australian dollar this week as the election “risk premium”
diminishes. The Canadian dollar fell to its lowest against its
Australian counterpart since February 2004 last week on
speculation Harper wouldn’t secure a majority.  “Canada is a poster-child for the rest of the G-7,” said
 Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in
London, who remembers lamenting the state of the economy when he
entered banking three decades ago. “They have commodities,
links to growth-driving economies such as  China  and very solid
policies and governance. It’s hard to pinpoint what its
immediate challenge is.”  Canada’s economy unexpectedly shrank 0.2 percent in
February following four months of expansion, as production
dropped at factories and wholesalers,  Statistics Canada  said
April 29. The Bank of Canada said last month growth will slow
after a burst at the start of the year, with auto production
hampered by Japan’s earthquake and exports curbed by a strong
dollar.  Growth Forecasts  The economy will grow at a 2 percent annualized pace in the
April-June period following a 4.2 percent expansion in the first
quarter, the Ottawa-based central bank said in its Monetary
Policy report. Output will grow at a 2.7 percent rate in the
second half of 2011, the April 13 report said.  Bond and equity investors may also cheer the Conservative
victory, said Stephen Gauthier, a money manager at Fin-XO
Securities in Montreal, which oversees about C$600 million.
Foreign investors last year rewarded the government’s relative
fiscal prudence with record purchases of Canadian bonds. They
have returned 4.8 percent over the past year, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data, compared with a 3.2 percent
average for the G-7.  Corporate Taxes  Harper sought re-election on a plan to maintain reductions
in corporate tax rates for companies such as Royal Bank of
Canada and  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  that would cost the government
more than C$6 billion in revenue next year. He argues lower
taxes are needed to sustain the recovery and generate jobs.  He also promised to resist restrictions on foreign
investment even after becoming his nation’s first leader in more
than two decades to reject foreign takeovers. A Harper majority
also means the country’s oil companies will have an advocate in
Ottawa, after other parties pledged to eliminate tax breaks and
subsidies for the industry.  “I don’t see anything negative as far as the markets are
concerned,” Gauthier said. “They won’t have to deal with a
party that was biased toward more spending and higher taxes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at   targitis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 