-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls on Forecast of Mild Weather in U.S.

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-05-04T15:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/canadian-natural-gas-falls-on-forecast-of-mild-weather-in-u-s-.html
Canadian natural gas fell for a second
day as mild weather in the U.S. pared demand for the furnace and
power-plant fuel.  Air-conditioning demand will probably average about 1
percent above normal for the next week, according to Belton,
Missouri-based forecaster Weather Derivatives. Spot gas prices
at  Canada ’s benchmark AECO C hub in Alberta gained 7.9 percent
last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as heat in
the U.S. South and East boosted power-plant use.  “The short-term weather outlook is the driver for the
day,” said  Stephen Smith , an energy analyst and president of
Stephen Smith Energy Associates in Natchez,  Mississippi . “If we
get normal weather this summer we may see some upward pressure
on gas prices.”  Alberta gas for June delivery fell 3.25 cents to C$3.83 per
gigajoule ($3.79 per million British thermal units) as of 11:40
a.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange goes to users in Canada and
the U.S. and is priced on TransCanada Corp.’s  Alberta  system.  Natural gas for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 3.3 cents to $4.637 per million Btu at 11:42 a.m.  Flow Rates  Volume on  TransCanada’s  Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.3 billion cubic
feet as of 10:30 a.m. in New York, about 71 million below its
target level. Gas production has declined in western Canada
because the ground is too soft to move heavy equipment to well
sites.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.63 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.79 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.25 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.65 billion cubic feet today, about 57
percent of its capacity of 2.9 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.79
billion cubic feet at 10:20 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 