-- 
Capital Controls Help Limit Colombian Peso Gains, Cano Says

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-05-04T20:16:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/capital-controls-help-limit-colombian-peso-gains-cano-says-1-.html
Colombia ’s Central Bank Director
Carlos Gustavo Cano said he expects the economy to grow 4.5
percent to 6.5 percent this year, more than the official bank
estimate.  Cano, one of the bank’s seven  board  members, said growth
should be sustainable without creating inflationary pressure if
the current investment level of 25 percent of gross domestic
product is maintained. The central bank raised its official
estimate for gross domestic product expansion last week to 4
percent to 6 percent.  “In my opinion GDP will grow more than 5.5 percent,” Cano
said in a presentation on the central bank’s  website . “If we
maintain that level in the medium term it will be possible to
expect a reduction in the  unemployment rate  to a single digit,
and most importantly an increase in the quality of employment.”  Colombia’s jobless rate was 12.2 percent in March.  Capital controls are useful to limit gains in the peso
under “special and transitory circumstances,” Cano said in the
presentation.  The peso strengthened to the highest level in almost three
years today amid rising investment flows and bets government
measures to ease the currency’s rally will fail. The peso rose
as much as 0.7 percent to 1,753.20 per  U.S. dollar , its
strongest level since July 2008. It ended trading little changed
at 1,765 today, from 1,765.25 yesterday.  The peso has jumped 8.1 percent this year, the best
performance among six Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Overseas Fund  As part of measures to ease the peso’s gains, Finance
Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry on April 29 announced that the
government would create an overseas fund with as much as $1.2
billion from dollars bought in the local  spot market  through the
end of 2011, and would forgo repatriating funds from abroad for
the rest of the year.  The government’s dollar purchases come on top of the
central bank’s plans to buy a minimum of $20 million daily until
at least June 17.  Echeverry told reporters last night he “isn’t happy”
about the peso’s strength. Colombia continues to monitor the
 exchange rate  and to discuss more ways to stem gains, he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Helen Murphy at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  