-- 
Caribe Lenders Seek Return of $44.2 Million in Bankruptcy

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-05-04T22:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/caribe-accused-by-noteholders-of-wrongly-moving-44-million-to-affiliate.html
Caribe Media Inc., a publisher of
directories in  Puerto Rico  and the Dominican Republic, filed for
bankruptcy so lenders can pursue $44.2 million they claim was
wrongly transferred to affiliates as dividend payments.  Caribe sought Chapter 11 protection from creditors
yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
citing as much as $500 million each in assets and liabilities.
The company, based in  San Juan , Puerto Rico, has about
$184 million in funded debt.  Before the filing, an unofficial committee of senior
secured lenders “raised issues regarding approximately $44.2
million in dividend payments that Caribe Media Inc. transferred
to non-debtor Local Insight Media Inc.,” Caribe Chief Financial
Officer Chris Batson said in court papers.  The money was moved in 2009 and 2010, and the committee
believes the transfers were “improper” and subject to scrutiny
under “federal or state fraudulent conveyance laws,” Batson
said. A fraudulent conveyance occurs when assets or property are
transferred and the company doesn’t receive equivalent value.  Caribe is indirectly owned by Local Insight Media Holdings
Inc., based in Englewood,  Colorado , which filed for Chapter 11
protection in November.  “We are optimistic that we will move through the Chapter
11 process expeditiously and affect a successful restructuring
of our debt,” Pat Nichols, a spokeswoman for Local Insight
Media, said in an e-mailed statement.  Senior Debt  Caribe’s debt includes $127 million on the senior secured
credit facility, consisting of a $120 million  term loan  and a
$7 million revolving facility, with Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
as agent for the lenders. The company owes $57 million on senior
subordinated notes owned by an affiliate of Welsh, Carson,
Anderson & Stowe.  The company will seek approval from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Kevin Gross to use cash representing collateral for the lenders’
security interests at a hearing set for tomorrow. Caribe said it
has $1.3 million in unrestricted cash and the lenders consented
to the request, according to court documents.  The company’s main operating units provide directory
services to Puerto Rico and the  Dominican Republic , commanding
80 percent and 98 percent of the market respectively, court
papers show.  Standard & Poor’s  said in a March 1 report that
Caribe faced declining demand because of online competition for
small and midsize business advertisers, and that the company’s
“weak” performance might make its debt structure
unsustainable.  Among the largest unsecured creditors listed in court
papers are WCAS Capital Partners IV LP of  New York , holders of
senior subordinated notes.  The case is In re Caribe Media, 11-11387, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 