-- 
Carl Lewis Loses N.J. Supreme Court Bid to Stop Ballots Without His Name

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-05-04T17:52:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/carl-lewis-loses-new-jersey-supreme-court-bid-to-stop-ballots-minus-name.html
Carl Lewis, the Olympic gold medalist
seeking a  New Jersey  Senate seat, failed to persuade the state
Supreme Court to block the printing of primary-election ballots
without his name.  The court in Trenton today issued a one-page order
rejecting Lewis’s request to delay the printing of ballots for
the June 7 primary. He also filed a document known as a petition
for certification, asking the court to hear the case.  “My main thing is just to be on the ballot and make the
voters decide,” Lewis said today in an interview. “I’ve been
in the community, and I felt it’s time to make a challenge and a
stand. It’s me trying to open the door to get more done for the
kids and the families that I deal with.”  Lewis, a 49-year-old Democrat, turned to the  Supreme Court 
after a three-judge appellate panel ruled that Secretary of
State Kim Guadagno properly decided April 26 he was ineligible
to run for the senate because he didn’t meet the state’s four-
year residency requirement.  On April 29, a federal judge also ruled against Lewis,
saying he wouldn’t second-guess the state official, and Lewis
appealed.  Lewis, who grew up in New Jersey before moving to  Texas  and
then  California , wants to run in the 8th District, in the
southern part of the state which traditionally has elected
Republicans. Incumbent Dawn Marie Addiego, a Republican, was
appointed to fill the vacancy left by Phil Haines, who was
tapped for a judgeship.  Federal Case  Lawyers for Lewis argued before the federal court of
appeals in Philadelphia today that U.S. District Court Judge
Noel L. Hillman in Camden, New Jersey, erred in his April 29
ruling. Lewis asked Hillman to rule that the residency
requirement violated his constitutional right to equal
protection of the law. Lawyers for Lewis asked the appeals court
to stay Hillman’s ruling until they can decide the case.  “Carl Lewis has lived in New Jersey for 22 of his 49
years,” Lewis’s attorney  William M. Tambussi  said in the
hearing. “He’s not an opportunist moving from another area to
seek political office.”  Lewis, who competed for the U.S. in four Olympics as a
sprinter and long jumper, winning nine gold medals, said he
simply wants to run in the district he calls home.  Lewis argued that he bought a house in New Jersey in 2005,
which made him a state resident. He got a New Jersey driver’s
license in 2006 and became a volunteer assistant track coach at
Willingboro High School, his alma mater, in May 2007.  Guadagno said the record showed Lewis didn’t buy his
current home until Nov. 16, 2007, eight days after the cutoff.  The state court case is Layton and Costa v. Lewis, A-4047-
10T1, Superior Court of New Jersey, Appellate Division
(Trenton). The federal case is Lewis v. Guadagno, 1:11-cv-02381,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden), and the
appeal in Philadelphia is Lewis v. Guadagno, 11-2109,  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Third Circuit (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 