-- 
CBS Shares Advance Most in Year on Doubling of Dividend, Earnings Growth

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-04T20:26:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/cbs-shares-gain-most-in-21-months-on-dividend-boost-earnings.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the most-watched
U.S. television network, gained the most in a year in New York
trading after doubling its dividend and reporting first-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  The quarterly payout will rise to 10 cents from 5 cents,
New York-based CBS said yesterday. Net income of $202 million,
or 29 cents a share, beat the 19-cent average of analysts’
estimates after gains in broadcasting, pay TV and outdoor
advertising.  A new deal to broadcast the NCAA college basketball
tournament helped the CBS broadcast network generate higher
revenue and profit than expected, said  David Joyce , an analyst
with Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. Profit in the
entertainment, cable and broadcast units all beat his estimates.  “The big swing factor was the NCAA tournament deal with
Turner,” Joyce said in an interview after the results. “Nobody
knew the exact structure of that deal and it was the biggest
factor in their beat.”  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , rose $1.97, or
7.8 percent, to $27.21 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, the biggest gain since May 2010. The shares
have advanced 43 percent this year.  The first-quarter profit compared with a loss of $26.2
million, or 4 cents a share, a year ago, CBS said. Sales fell to
$3.51 billion, beating the $3.45 billion average of 18 analysts’
estimates.  Netflix Latin America  Ahead of the announcement, Bloomberg estimated CBS would
raise its dividend to 8 cents. CBS said it spent $250 million to
buy back stock in the quarter and had $972 million in cash as of
March 31.  CBS is “in serious talks” with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  to expand
online streaming of the broadcaster’s television shows into
Canada and Latin America, Chief Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves 
said during the conference call.  The network still doesn’t know if “Two and a Half Men,”
TV’s most-watched comedy, will return in September after CBS and
the show’s producer,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. Television,
fired actor Charlie Sheen for comments attacking show creator
Chuck Lorre. Warner Bros. is exploring how to bring back “Two
and a Half Men,” Moonves said.  Moonves also said CBS is open to talking with  JCDecaux SA (DEC) ,
the French billboard company that has expressed interest in
CBS’s outdoor-advertising business, most recently in March. CBS
isn’t actively seeking a buyer for its billboard operation, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  