-- 
CGGVeritas Sees Seismic Picking Up After Quarterly Loss

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-04T10:46:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/cggveritas-reports-first-quarter-loss-on-financing-costs.html
CGGVeritas, the world’s largest
seismic surveyor of oilfields, reported a first quarter loss and
said the market is expected to strengthen in the second half of
the year when oversupply may be absorbed.  Vessel rates will rise “at the end of the second half
rather than at the beginning,” Chief Executive Officer Jean- Georges Malcor said at a shareholders’ meeting today in Paris.
While  oil companies  have budgeted for more exploration and
production, they’ve been slow to place orders, he said.  The company’s net loss was $37 million in the first
quarter, due to a $25 million refinancing charge, compared with
a profit of $1 million a year earlier. Revenue rose 4.6 percent
to $728 million and a target for cash generation and operating
performance was kept.  Oil company operations were disrupted by the  oil spill  in
the  Gulf of Mexico  last year, the worst in U.S. history, and
subsequent drilling restrictions while political unrest in some
producer countries has delayed contracts. The seismic market was
already struggling after oil producers slashed spending in 2009
because of the global recession.  “The first quarter was shaped by our planned vessel
upgrades, maritime interruptions, geopolitical unrest and
multiclient seasonality,” Malcor said in a statement today. A
cost reduction plan is “exposed to rising fuel costs and the
weakening U.S. dollar.”  The shares fell 0.2 percent to 23.40 euros as of 12:35 p.m.
in Paris after earlier sliding as much as 3.1 percent.  North Africa  Political events in North Africa slowed business in Egypt,
Oman and  Tunisia  while a “remarkable” number of teams were
deployed in the Arctic, Malcor told the  shareholders’ meeting .  CGGVeritas’s backlog on April 1 was $1.22 billion in a
market “expected to progressively strengthen,” according to
the statement. The company would rather wait to fill order books
with higher-margin contracts, Malcor said, adding that a multi-
client order in the Gulf of Mexico using the company’s Broadseis
technology may be announced next week.  Operating income fell to $23 million from $37 million with
the margin dropping to 3 percent from 5 percent the year before
and 13 percent the previous quarter, CGGVeritas said. The margin
at the Sercel division that sells seismic equipment rose to 34
percent from 22 percent in 2010 and that of the services
business was a negative 5 percent compared with 3 percent during
the same period last year.  Pirates, Weather  The margin for Sercel is expected be about 30 percent on
average this year, Malcor said. The marine business was hurt by
work on vessels, poor weather and measures taken against the
risk of pirates in the  Indian Ocean .  Global capacity for seismic vessels with more than eight
so-called streamers is about 50, an estimated four or five too
many for current demand even before another four or five vessels
will be added this year, Malcor said. This overcapacity could be
completely absorbed by an expected 20 percent rise in demand
this year including as many as six vessels that could be used in
the Gulf of Mexico, he added.  CGGVeritas was created in 2006 when Massy, France-based
Compagnie Generale de Geophysique SA bought Houston-based
Veritas DGC Inc. Streamers are equipment used in underwater
surveys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  