-- 
Chelsea Hires Company to Market Fernando Torres, Other Players in China

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-04T17:19:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/chelsea-hires-company-to-market-fernando-torres-other-players-in-china.html
Chelsea, the English Premier League
soccer champion, hired an agency to market players such as
record signing  Fernando Torres  to China and other countries.  ECN Management, which says it has expertise in China, will
find branding opportunities for Chelsea, Torres and 18 other
players whose image rights are owned by the Blues, the company
said in an e-mailed statement. Chelsea meets  Manchester United 
in a game that may decide the league title on May 8.  Chelsea is trying to boost its global profile and increase
revenue to reduce reliance on billionaire owner Roman
Abramovich, who has put about 700 million pounds of equity into
the club since buying it in 2003. The club needs to cut its
losses ahead of new rules on fiscal discipline being introduced
by European soccer’s governing body after its full-year accounts
recorded a loss of 70.9 million pounds for 2009.  “Football in emerging markets, particularly in  China  is
the most exciting growth business in sports,” ECN’s Managing
Director Frederick Blackford said in the statement. “Chelsea
players are some of the most prominent ambassadors of the world
game.”  While Abramovich’s spending has turned  Chelsea  into one of
 Europe ’s leading teams, winning three Premier League titles and
regularly qualifying for the latter stages of the elite
Champions League, the club has failed to find a sponsor to buy
naming rights to its Stamford Bridge stadium for more than a
year. The current roster has 16 national team members that
represent 11 countries.  Its lead partner is South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co.
and the club sponsors the Asian Football Confederation, the
governing body for soccer in the region.  Local Knowledge  Still, breaking into China may not be easy. The  National
Basketball Association  attracts more viewers than Premier League
soccer, which suffered when it signed a television contract that
restricted its audience to as low as 20,000 in a country of more
than 1.3 billion, according to the Guardian. A new Chinese
contract, which includes some free telecasts, means millions can
watch.  The U.K.-based ECN Management has “the local knowledge in
China and experience required to give our players profile,”
Chelsea Chief Executive Officer Ron Gourlay said. “We hope to
work closely to build on our players’ image and reputation in
China.”  Chelsea agreed to pay Liverpool 50 million pounds for
Torres in January. It also on the same day bought  David Luiz  for
about 25 million pounds. The Blues also own the image rights to
Luiz, a central defender who plays on the Brazil national squad.
 Spain ’s Torres has scored once since moving to Stamford Bridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 