-- 
Chi-X Wins Government Approval to Open Rival to Australian Stock Exchange

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-05-04T06:23:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/chi-x-wins-australian-government-license-to-open-rival-exchange.html
Australia awarded an operating license
to Chi-X Australia Pty, opening the Asia-Pacific’s fourth-
largest equity market to competition from foreign-owned
exchanges for the first time.  The country’s government today granted a license to  Nomura
Holdings Inc (8604) .-owned Chi-X, Financial Services Minister  Bill Shorten  and Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an e-mailed statement.
The unit of  Japan ’s largest brokerage will open its equity
trading platform to both retail and institutional investors,
Chi-X Australia said. The approval comes less than a month after
Swan month rejected a takeover of  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , operator of
Australia’s main bourse, by  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)   “Competition in Australia’s financial markets is critical
to promoting exchange innovation and lowering transaction costs
for market participants,” Shorten and Swan said in the
statement.  Chi-X has said it plans to start operations in the fourth
quarter of this year. It will be the first foreign-owned market
operator since the country’s original stock market opened in the
southern city of  Melbourne  in 1861. Traditional bourses are
facing rising competition from alternative systems such as so-
called dark pools, off-exchange platforms that offer investors
anonymity and don’t publicly display prices, run by  New York- 
based Liquidnet Holdings Inc. as well as Citigroup Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG.  ‘Significant Milestone’  Introducing competition in the local exchange market,
dominated by Sydney-based ASX, is a key pillar of plans by the
Labor Government led by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  to help
turn the country into a global financial hub. Shorten in March
said other exchange-license applicants would be considered on
their merits.  “This is a significant milestone in the ongoing
development and growth of Australia’s financial markets and Chi-
X is delighted to have played an active role in shaping the new
regulatory environment,”  Peter Fowler , chief operating officer
of Chi-X  Australia , said in an e-mailed statement. “Chi-X will
provide both existing and new market participants greater choice
and flexibility.”  The Australian industry will need to “prepare for a multi-
market environment,” the Australian Securities & Investment
Commission said on March 3. Chi-X was required to meet
conditions on computer systems, resourcing and staffing, which
includes having procedures in place for ASX and Chi-X to
simultaneously halt trading, the regulator said. Chi-X will
trade Australian stocks and clearing will be done through ASX,
the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Competition Timetable  “The government also recently commissioned Australia’s
financial regulators to consider potential measures to preserve
the integrity of our financial infrastructure, particularly
clearing and settlement facilities,” Shorten and Swan’s
statement said.  ASIC announced a timetable for the licensing of competitors
to ASX in early March, saying that Chi-X could potentially begin
a rival exchange service after completing computer system checks
in September.  Chi-X no longer faces the prospect of having to compete
with  Singapore Exchange , whose proposed A$8.3 billion ($9
billion) takeover of ASX was blocked by Swan on April 8. The
deal, unanimously recommended by the companies’ boards, was an
attempt to compete with rival exchanges in  Tokyo  and Hong Kong,
the Chinese city where a record $58 billion was raised in equity
offerings last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global Consolidation  Chi-X Global Inc., the parent company for regional units
including Chi-X Australia and Chi-X Japan Ltd., is owned by
Instinet LLC, a subsidiary of Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings. The
company’s entry into the Australia’s market occurs at a time
when global exchange mergers are intensifying as operators
compete for access to global capital.  Even accounting for the failed Singapore-Australian deal,
exchanges have announced takeovers totaling about $20 billion
since October as competition forced chief executive officers to
seek to cut costs by expanding into new markets.  Deutsche Boerse AG agreed a $9.5 billion purchase of  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  that would create the world’s largest exchange operator.
London Stock Exchange Group Plc said it will acquire  Canada ’s
TMX Group Inc., owner of the Toronto bourse.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
announced a rival offer for NYSE Euronext, which the company’s
board has twice rejected.  Singapore, Hong Kong  Singapore Exchange is prepared to discuss a merger with
other bourses such as Hong Kong, according to President
Muthukrishnan Ramaswami.  The exchange isn’t currently working on a
“transformational deal,” and is focusing on expanding its
clearing services for derivatives, growing company listings and
finding collaborative agreements that drive revenue, he said in
an interview this week at  the World Federation of Exchanges
IOMA/IOCA conference  in Mumbai.  “If  Hong Kong  came to us and said: shall we merge, we
wouldn’t say no at all,” Ramaswami said. “Hong Kong would
bring us size. We have no problem being a junior partner. But it
would be all about the detail.” There has been no approach or
discussion to date, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net 
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 