-- 
Chinalco Is Unlikely to Make Alcoa Bid, Former Official Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-04T06:16:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/chinalco-is-unlikely-to-make-alcoa-bid-former-official-says.html
Aluminum Corp. of  China , the nation’s
biggest producer, is unlikely to make a takeover offer for  Alcoa
Inc. (AA) , whose shares rose yesterday on bid talk, because of U.S.
opposition, a former Chinese commerce ministry official said.  “Although the U.S. doesn’t have capital controls, it does
have high regulatory control and strict reviews over Chinese
investments in the U.S., especially those with state-owned
enterprise background,” Guan Anping, a professor and researcher
at the People’s University of China, a former lawyer and Chinese
trade official, said today from Beijing.  Alcoa advanced yesterday in New York trading amid record
bullish options volume on speculation Rio Tinto Group will make
a takeover offer for the largest U.S. aluminum producer. There
was a “low-probability” that regulators would allow London-
based Rio to make a bid,  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1
billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne, told Susan Li on
Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.”  Aluminum Corp., or Chinalco,
is “probably as good a guess as any” to make an offer, he said.  Attempts made by Chinese companies, including Cnooc Ltd. and
Huawei Technologies Co. to buy U.S. firms have met with
obstacles from regulators and law makers. Investors in China are
shifting acquisition targets to  Latin America  and Africa from
Australia and  Canada , Ernst & Young said in March.  Yuan Li, spokesman of Beijing-based Chinalco, didn’t
return a call seeking comment. A call to Alcoa’s Beijing
office’s general line wasn’t answered.  --Xiao Yu. Editors: Keith Gosman, Indranil Ghosh  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 