-- 
China’s Stocks Fall Most in Two Months on ‘Critical’ Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-04T07:52:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/china-stock-futures-drop-on-concern-more-tightening-steps-ahead.html
China ’s stocks fell the most in two
months after the government said taming inflation is
“critical,” signaling to investors that more policy tightening
measures may be ahead even as economic growth slows.  China Shenhua Energy Co., the nation’s biggest coal company,
and Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. plunged more than 5 percent after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the government may cap thermal
coal prices to help power producers. Jiangxi Copper Co. and
PetroChina Co. led a drop for commodity producers as metal and
oil prices extended declines. China Citic Bank Corp. fell the
most in six months after the China Securities Journal said the
central bank will raise lenders’ reserve requirements this month.  “Curbing inflation is the top priority for the
government,” said Wu Kan, a fund manager at Dazhong Insurance
Co., which oversees $285 million. “China’s economic growth has
shown signs of a slowdown but that won’t change the government’s
intention to cool inflation with more monetary measures.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slid 66.2 points, or 2.3 percent, to
2,866.02 at the 3 p.m. close, the most since Feb. 22. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  retreated 2.6 percent to 3,129.03. The MSCI Emerging-
Markets Index dropped 0.8 percent amid concern faster inflation
in developing nations may prompt more interest-rate increases.
 India ’s central bank boosted rates by an unexpected half a
percentage point yesterday.  China’s central bank has lifted borrowing costs four times
since October to cool prices that grew at the fastest pace since
2008 in March. It has also ordered lenders to set aside reserves
10 times since the start of last year to curb lending. The
government is tightening monetary policy even as the measures
threaten to slow the world’s second-biggest economy. The
Purchasing Managers’ Index, a gauge of manufacturing growth,
fell to 52.9 in April from 53.4 in March.  Central Bank  “A moderate growth slowdown in 2011 could be taken as a
signal of a hard landing going forward,” Bank of America-
Merrill Lynch economists led by Ting Lu said in a report today.  Growth indicators such as industrial production and fixed-
asset investment will likely moderate in April from March, they
said. China’s inflation rate may fall to around 5 percent in May
before peaking above 5.5 percent in June, they said.  “Stabilizing prices and managing inflation expectations
are critical,” the People’s Bank of China said in a first-
quarter monetary policy report published yesterday. Bank reserve
requirements have no “absolute ceiling,” the report said,
restating Governor Zhou Xiaochuan’s comment on April 16.  Jiangxi Copper, the nation’s biggest copper producer, sank
6 percent to 34.62 yuan.  Yunnan Copper Industry Co. (000878)  fell 3.8
percent to 23.15 yuan. Copper declined in  London , falling for
the fourth time in five days, on concern about the strength of
demand in China, the biggest user.  Commodity Stocks  PetroChina, the nation’s biggest energy producer, led
declines for  oil companies , sliding 2.2 percent to 11.46 yuan.
Crude fell for a third day in  New York , the longest losing
streak since March. Oil for June delivery slid as much as 61
cents to $110.44 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Yanzhou Coal, China’s fourth-biggest coal producer, plunged
7.1 percent to 33.14 yuan, the biggest drop since Nov. 16. China
Shenhua dropped 5.7 percent to 28.12 yuan.  The government may allow tariff increases for independent
power producers and control thermal coal contract prices,
Goldman Sachs said in a report today.  “The Chinese government may step in to cap coal prices
because inflationary concerns may prevent the NDRC from raising
power tariffs to a large extent,”  David Fang , a director of
research at the China Coal Transport and Distribution
Association, said by phone from Beijing.  Bank Requirements  The central bank may raise banks’ reserve requirement
ratios this month as new yuan positions at Chinese banks
accumulated from sales of foreign exchange to the central bank
may remain high, the China Securities Journal reported on its
front page today, citing unidentified people.  Bank of Beijing Co. slipped 3.5 percent to 11.42 yuan.
Industrial Bank Co. slid 2.6 percent to 28.36 yuan.  China Citic Bank lost 2.9 percent to 5.42 yuan. China Citic
faces long-term pressure on capital financing after the banking
regulator announced its own version of the Basel requirements
yesterday, Wang Kang, head of the bank’s planning and accounting
department, said on a conference call today. The nation’s
systemically important banks must have a minimum capital
adequacy ratio of 11.5 percent by the end of 2013, the China
Banking Regulatory Commission said in a statement yesterday.  Developers Fall  China Vanke, the biggest developer, slid 2 percent to 8.33
yuan. A gauge tracking property stocks in the Shanghai Composite
retreated 2.2 percent.  China may extend limits on the purchase of property and on
 home prices  to more cities, the Shanghai Securities News
reported today, citing an unidentified person close to the
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.  An unidentified official at the housing ministry has urged
policies be taken to limit investment in smaller cities by
investment funds that weaken efforts to control the Chinese
 property market , the Shanghai-based newspaper reported.  Guangshen Railway Co., the operator of trains in China’s
richest province of Guangdong, jumped 8.7 percent to 4.38 yuan,
the most since September 2008. The company will benefit from the
government’s plan to expand business operations for railway
companies, Sinolink Securities Co. said in a report yesterday.  Today’s drop for the Shanghai Composite, the steepest among
the 90 global indexes tracked by Bloomberg, pared the measure’s
gains for this year to 2.1 percent.  “Investors are overly pessimistic and have overreacted to
the central bank’s intention to further tighten monetary
policies,” said Mei Luwu, a Shenzhen-based  fund manager  of Lion
Fund Management Co., which oversees more than $7.8 billion.
“More tightening monetary measures will hurt economic growth
but China is unlikely to see a hard landing.”  --Irene Shen. Editor: Allen Wan, Reinie Booysen  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 Ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  