-- 
China’s Top Fund Manager Favors Commodities as Prices Rise

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-05T08:03:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/china-top-fund-manager-favors-resource-stocks-as-oil-prices-fuel-inflation.html
China ’s top-performing fund manager is
favoring resource and agriculture stocks as the country’s
government intensifies its fight against the worst inflation in
three years amid rising commodity prices.  Oil prices  may extend this year’s surge amid concerns over
supply disruptions in the Middle East, while demand for fuels
will increase after  Japan ’s worst earthquake on record spurred
countries to shelve plans to develop nuclear energy, Wang Cheng,
co-manager of the  China Southern Long Yuan Equity Investment
Fund (SOINLON) , said in a May 3 interview from Shenzhen.  The $1.2 billion fund, which Wang runs with Jiang Pengchen,
rose 10 percent in the first quarter of this year, making it the
best performer among 735 tracked by Howbuy, a Shanghai-based
fund research company. PetroChina Co., China’s biggest energy
company, and Heilongjiang Agriculture Co., a producer of rice,
soybeans, wheat and corn, accounted for 15 percent of the fund
at the end of March, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We can find some investment opportunity in areas like
resources and agriculture,” Wang, who has been managing money
for China Southern Fund Management Co. since 2002, said.
“Global tensions recently have added fluctuations to commodity
prices and brought negative impact to our inflation. The
government will still focus on fighting inflation as labor costs
will continue to rise and liquidity remains ample.” She
declined to specify changes to her holdings.  Inflation Target  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index gained 2.3 percent
this year on speculation four interest-rate increases since
October will tame inflation without slowing the economy.
Consumer prices rose 5.4 percent in March from a year earlier,
statistics bureau data on April 15 showed, exceeding the
government’s full-year inflation target of 4 percent. The
economy expanded 9.7 percent in the first three months, topping
economist projections for growth of 9.4 percent.  The Long Yuan fund has beaten 95 percent of its peers in
the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Stocks
accounted for 74 percent of its portfolio as of the end of
March, while bonds took up 4 percent and cash the remainder,
according to the fund’s quarterly report.  Wang’s stock allocations are “low,” reflecting the fund’s
conservative approach, said Zhang Haidong, an analyst at Z-Ben
Advisors, a Shanghai-based funds adviser. The average stock
allocation for 375 funds in the first quarter was 81.6 percent,
down 1.7 percentage points from the previous quarter, Howbuy
said in a report last month.  “Wang is among the most experienced players in the
market,” said Zhang. “Her bet on more anti-inflation measures
is fair and safe at the moment.”  Most Senior  Wang was described by China’s Securities Journal on March 7
as the most senior among 128 female managers in the Chinese fund
management industry. Women account for 15 percent of the
nation’s fund managers, the newspaper said, citing statistics
from TX Investment Consulting.  PetroChina, whose shares gained 6.1 percent last quarter,
was the Long Yuan’s biggest holding as of the end of March,
according to its quarterly report. The company wasn’t among the
fund’s top 10 holdings in 2010, the fund’s annual report said.  Crude futures in  New York  have jumped 25 percent this year
amid unrest in the Middle East and North Africa and as Japan’s
earthquake on March 11 compelled China and  India  to review plans
for atomic energy. Power-station coal prices at Qinhuangdao
port, a Chinese benchmark, rose to the highest level since
October 2008, the China Coal Transport and Distribution
Association said on May 3.  Shenhua Energy  “Some countries have suspended or delayed plans to build
nuclear plants after Japan’s accident,” Wang said. “It will
raise demand” for oil and coal.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , the country’s biggest
refiner and second-largest oil producer, accounted for 4.96
percent of the fund as of March 31. China Shenhua Energy Co., a
unit of the nation’s biggest coal producer, represented 4.75
percent. Shenhua surged 18 percent in the first quarter, while
China Petroleum and Chemical advanced 5.8 percent.  “At the moment, the priority for the macro controls is
fighting against inflation,” Wang said. “Further tightening
measures will be carried out depending on inflation numbers.”  Food costs, which research company IHS  Global Insight  says
account for about a third of China’s consumer prices basket,
rose 11.7 percent in March from a year earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics said at a briefing on April 15. The United
Nations FAO Food Price index jumped 25 percent last year, the
second-steepest increase since at least 1991, and surged to a
record in February.  Trading Rebound  Shares of Heilongjiang Agriculture, Wang’s fifth-biggest
holding as of March 31, gained 8.3 percent in the first quarter.  Citic Securities Co., the nation’s biggest brokerage,
accounted for 8.07 percent of the Long Yuan fund at the end of
March, making it the second-biggest holding. The company’s
shares climbed 11 percent in the first quarter on speculation
earnings would benefit from a rebound in share trading as
China’s stocks rose the most among  Asia ’s biggest equity markets
in the first quarter.  For the second quarter, Wang is favoring manufacturers with
“core technologies” as they are critical to the government’s
economic plans over the next five years to move away from
exports into fledgling industries such as technology and high-
end machinery manufacturing.  The nation’s manufacturing sustained its expansion in
April, a purchasing managers’ index showed May 1. The index was
52.9 in April, compared with 53.4 in March, China’s logistics
federation and the statistics bureau said. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  “China’s economic growth has shown signs of stabilizing,”
Wang said.  --Irene Shen. With assistance from Zhang Shidong. Editor: Allen
Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  