-- 
China’s ‘Hawkish’ Central Bank May Tighten Even as Economic Growth Cools

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-04T06:51:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/china-s-hawkish-central-bank-may-tighten-even-as-economic-growth-cools.html
China ’s central bank said taming
inflation is its top priority, signaling that more tightening is
possible even after a manufacturing survey showed that growth
may be moderating in Asia’s biggest economy.  “Stabilizing prices and managing inflation expectations
are critical,” the People’s Bank of China said in a first-
quarter monetary policy report published yesterday. Bank  reserve
requirements  have no “absolute ceiling,” the report said,
restating Governor Zhou Xiaochuan’s comment on April 16.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 2.1 percent as of 2:35
p.m. local time, set for the biggest decline in two months, on
concern that tightening will cut profits and growth. The central
bank may boost lenders’ reserve requirements this month, the
China Securities Journal said on its front page today.
Separately, the Shanghai Securities News said officials may
expand controls on the  property market  to more cities.  “The PBOC kept a fairly hawkish tone toward inflation,”
said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asia economist at Societe Generale SA
in  Hong Kong . Officials will add to tightening, managing the
“pace and intensity” of measures more carefully and perhaps
relying more on gains in the yuan, he said.  A manufacturing index slid in April from March after
increases in bank reserve requirements and  interest rates  and
faster gains in the yuan.  The central bank has raised lending and deposit rates four
times since mid-October. The yuan has strengthened above 6.5 per
dollar for the first time since 1993, and reserve requirements
for the biggest banks stand at a record 20.5 percent excluding
any extra limits for individual lenders not publicly announced.  Faster Inflation  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government aims to cool the
fastest inflation since 2008 and rein in property prices without
undermining the expansion.  Consumer prices may rise at a slower pace in the second
half, the Securities Journal reported today, citing Yi Gang, a
deputy governor at the central bank.  Economic growth and employment are at “reasonable” levels,
the central bank said in yesterday’s  report . Officials will
increase exchange-rate flexibility, control liquidity in the
financial system, and use interest rates to manage inflation
expectations, it said.  Inflation was an annual 5.4 percent in March, exceeding the
government’s full-year target of 4 percent for a third month.
Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker, said
March 31 that it was among companies to have postponed price
increases at the government’s request.  Commodity Costs  “Given the loose monetary policies of major economies and
gradual recovery of the global economy, commodity prices keep
climbing and global inflation expectations are rising
significantly,” the People’s Bank of China said. “China is
seeing increasing pressure from imported inflation.”  Zhang Liqun , a senior researcher at the State Council’s
Development Research Center, said May 1 that the manufacturing
data showed an increased likelihood that growth will slow.
China’s gross domestic product expanded 9.7 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier and the  World Bank  last week
forecast a full-year expansion of 9.3 percent.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday
that it will help global economies if China allows its
“substantially undervalued” currency to strengthen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  