-- 
Chrysler Group Offers Rates on $3.5 Billion Loan to Repay U.S. for Bailout

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r ,   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o   a n d   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-05-04T20:45:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/chrysler-is-said-to-offer-pricing-on-3-5-billion-term-loan-to-repay-debt.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
operated by  Fiat SpA (F) , offered initial rates on a $3.5 billion
term loan it’s seeking to repay U.S. and Canadian governments,
according to four people briefed on the transaction.  The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based company proposed an
interest rate 4 percentage points to 4.25 percentage points more
than the London interbank offered rate, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the terms are private. Libor,
a rate banks charge to lend to each other, will have a 1.25
percent floor.  Chrysler is marketing as much as $7.5 billion of debt to
repay borrowings for its government-funded bailout as the
company plans an initial public offering and works to merge with
its Italian partner. The company plans to raise $2.5 billion in
eight- and 10-year bonds and $1.5 billion in a revolving  credit
line  maturing in five years, Chrysler said May 2 in a statement.  Gualberto Ranieri, a spokesman for Chrysler, declined to
comment on the transaction.  Chrysler is proposing to issue the six-year  term loan  at 99
cents to 99.5 cents on the dollar, the people familiar with the
talks said, reducing proceeds for the company and boosting the
yield for investors.  Lenders are also offered a one-year soft-call protection of
101 cents, the people said, meaning the company would have to
pay 1 cent more than face value to refinance the debt during its
first year.  Morgan Stanley is arranging the company’s term loan, Bank
of America Corp. will manage the bond sale and Citigroup Inc.
will lead the revolver, two other people briefed on the matter
said last week. In a revolving credit facility, money can be
borrowed again once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t.  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday that it rated
Chrysler B2, its first-lien senior secured loans Ba2 and the
second-lien notes B2.  Standard & Poor’s  rated the issuer B+,
according to a report yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  