-- 
McLaren Offers $500,000 Racing Version of Ferrari Challenger

-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-05-04T16:44:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/mclaren-unveils-500-000-supercar-aimed-at-rivaling-ferrari-lamborghini.html
McLaren Group unveiled a 310,000-pound
($500,000) track version of the 200-mile-per-hour MP4-12C
supercar in a bid to establish race credentials for its rival to
the  Ferrari 458  and Lamborghini Gallardo.  The GT3 racer is priced at double the cost of the road car
and will make its competitive debut in an endurance event at the
Navarra circuit near Pamplona,  Spain , on May 22, McLaren said
after presenting the model at its base in Woking, near  London .  “We want to do things properly so that McLaren will be
seen as the gold standard in super sports cars,” Antony Sheriff, managing director of McLaren Automotive, said today in
an interview. “We’re not trying to sell a few cars over a short
period; we’re building a brand and we’re here long term.”  McLaren, best-known as the most successful  Formula One  team
after Ferrari, said the new model will do most of its racing in
 Europe ’s FIA GT3 competition. The series currently features cars
from  Aston Martin , Audi, BMW, Ferrari, Ford, Lamborghini and
Porsche, as well as the $500,000 gull-wing SLS supercar from
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, new to the circuit this year.  About 20 McLaren GT3 variants will be delivered to customer
teams in Europe in 2012, and the car may also be entered in the
24 Hours of Spa endurance race and other events worldwide.  U.S. Boost  The MP4-12C road car, successor to the  McLaren F1 , the
world’s costliest auto in the 1990s and the fastest at 240 mph,
has racked up 1,700 orders even before being displayed at 35
global dealerships due to open this year, Sheriff said.  “It’s rising on a daily basis,” he said. “We have seen a
fairly linear increase since we opened for orders last summer.”  Concern that the car might struggle to win buyers in  North
America , where Formula One has a lower profile than elsewhere in
the world, was misplaced, Sheriff said, adding that, “if
anything, demand in the U.S. has been even higher.”  The model will be available for viewing at McLaren’s
showroom in Hyde Park, London, next month. In the U.S., the No.
1 supercar market, it will go on show in August in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , a town known for its concentration of  hedge funds .  McLaren will initially have nine U.S. dealers in cities
including  Beverly Hills ,  Chicago ,  Dallas , Miami and  New York .  The MP4-12C takes its name from the MP4 designation given
to all of McLaren’s race cars since 1981, the latest being the
MP4-26 driven by  Jenson Button  and Lewis Hamilton. The “C”
indicates the road car’s carbon construction and the “12” is a
reflection of “internal performance criteria” including
weight, aerodynamics, power and down force, Sheriff said.  More Models  McLaren aims to develop further variants of the MP4-12C in
coming years, though production numbers will remain “relatively
limited” to preserve its exclusivity, the executive said.  “We don’t want to flood the market,” he said. “We don’t to
be greedy. Our customers are buying this car because it’s an
exclusive car.”  McLaren may consider selling shares through an initial
public offering in about 2015, Executive Chairman Ron Dennis
said in an interview at the sidelines of today’s event.  The company is currently converting debt into equity and
has hit “every financial target” that it has set itself,
Dennis said. He declined to assign a value to the business or
say how much has been spent developing the MP4-12C and building
a production site next door to the Formula One technical center.  “Inevitably investors ask what is the exit, and an exit of
course is an IPO, you have to say that,” Dennis said. “Our
target for that decision is four years away, and we’ll take that
decision when we get to it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in Woking, England, at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  