-- 
College Football Bowl Game System Raises Antitrust Concerns, Varney Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-05-04T21:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/college-football-bowl-game-system-raises-antitrust-concerns-varney-says.html
College football’s Bowl Championship
Series raises anticompetitive concerns because it lacks a
playoff system, said  Christine Varney , who heads the U.S.
 Justice Department ’s antitrust division.  In a May 3 letter, Varney asked  National Collegiate
Athletic Association  President Mark Emmert if he attempted to
establish playoffs before the championship game, as is the case
in other sports.  “Serious questions continue to arise suggesting that the
current  Bowl Championship Series  system may not be conducted
consistent with the competition principles expressed in the
federal antitrust laws,” Varney wrote.  The  Justice Department  has been urged by 21 professors and
“other prominent individuals” to take antitrust action against
the NCAA, she said. Playoff PAC, a political action committee
that wants the sport to adopt playoffs and scrap its system of
using polls and computer rankings, filed a complaint in
September with the  Internal Revenue Service .  The group said the Fiesta, Orange and Sugar Bowls are
violating their tax-exempt status by providing excessive
compensation to executives, spending undisclosed amounts on
lobbying and intervening in political campaigns. The group also
said that bowls provided substantial private benefits to
organizational insiders.  Operating as Charities  The Fiesta, Orange and Sugar Bowls represent three of the
five bowls that make up the BCS. The others are the Rose Bowl
and the BCS championship game. The bowls operate as tax-exempt
501(c)3 charities, and contributions to the organizations are
tax deductible.  Fiesta Bowl President and Chief Executive Officer John Junker was fired in March following an independent investigation
into campaign contributions and executive compensation.  Emmert has said “the NCAA is willing to help create a
playoff format for Football Bowl Subdivision football” as long
as members of the group agree. Schools in the FBS, formerly
known as Division 1-A, have the most competitive football
programs.  Bob Williams, an NCAA spokesman, declined to comment on
Varney’s letter until the organization receives it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in New York at   jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  