-- 
Color Nook Morphs Into $249 Bargain Tablet: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-05-04T20:14:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/color-nook-morphs-into-249-ipad-with-friends-tech-by-richjaroslovsky.html
When  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  released its
$249 Nook Color last year, it took hackers all of about 15
minutes to crack its e-reader facade and convert it into a low-
cost tablet computer.  Now Barnes & Noble has followed suit, releasing a major
software upgrade that adds functionality and further blurs the
line between the two categories. While no replacement for a
full-on tablet, it may prove an acceptable substitute for those
with lightweight needs and slender wallets.  The Nook Color, which works only over a Wi-Fi connection,
features a bright 7-inch screen. At 5 inches wide and just under
half an inch thick, it slides into a jacket pocket and weighs a
little less than a pound.  As an e-reader, it’s particularly good for viewing material
with photographs or color illustrations, such as cookbooks,
kid’s books and magazines, all of which look far better here
than they do on  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle.  What makes the Nook irresistible to hackers and hobbyists
is that it runs Android, the  Google Inc. (GOOG)  operating system for
mobile devices. This isn’t “Honeycomb,” the special version
designed for tablets, which is used on devices such as Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc.’s Xoom and has yet to attract large
numbers of developers to write applications for it.  Rather, it’s the software that was originally designed for
mobile phones, which has attracted a selection of apps second
only to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iDevices.  Banning Androids  The initial Nook Color came with a few apps pre-installed,
including a Web browser, Pandora Internet Radio and a chess
game. There was no easy way to add more -- Barnes & Noble barred
access to the Android Market store. It still does, but Barnes &
Noble has built in a few new apps and introduced its own,
curated store for adding still more.  The software upgrade, delivered free over the air to
existing users, updates the Nook’s version of Android from 2.1,
known as “Eclair,” to 2.2, known as “FroYo.” (Google has
this thing about desserts.) It also adds an e-mail client and
the ability to view videos and animations created using  Adobe
Systems Inc. (ADBE) ’s Flash, which  Steve Jobs  has famously banished
from Apple’s iPads and iPhones.  I found the e-mail client to be basic but serviceable. You
can have up to six accounts on the Nook, with the option of a
combined inbox to give to give you a single window for your
messages. I was able to retrieve messages from Yahoo, Gmail and
Comcast accounts without difficulty, even listening to messages
mailed to me by Google Voice.  Blind Dates  The software doesn’t work with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Exchange
Server for corporate mail, though you can try downloading
 NitroDesk ’s TouchDown app from the Nook’s app store. You’ll also
need to turn to the app store for a calendar; none is included
with the update. All told, Barnes & Noble has so far approved
about 150 Android apps for its store.  The video capabilities are hit or miss. Despite the Nook’s
support for Flash, some YouTube clips wouldn’t play; a
spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble says such cases are “isolated
instances,” and that it is working on a fix.  You can theoretically watch movies on the Nook, but will
have to figure out how to do it yourself. There’s no Netflix app
in the Nook store, for instance, and no place akin to Apple’s
iTunes Store for easily acquiring content.  Nook Friends  The Nook’s hardware limitations provide other potential
impediments. The small storage capacity -- 8 gigabytes -- isn’t
a problem for books, which don’t take up much space. But you’ll
probably want to utilize the Nook’s expansion slot for a microSD
memory card if you intend to store a bunch of movies and songs.  I got less than the claimed eight hours of battery life
when I kept the Wi-Fi turned on and adjusted the screen to a
brighter, and for me more comfortable, level than the default
setting.  While “Angry Birds” played smoothly, the device sometimes
felt sluggish as its single-core, 800 MHz  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) 
processor labored under the demands of navigating or launching
applications.  In upgrading the Nook, Barnes & Noble hasn’t abandoned its
e-reader roots. A new “Nook Friends” app makes it easier to
lend and borrow books, and a selection of children’s books have
been re-imagined as interactive apps. Even as it edges more into
tablet territory, the company says it will choose apps for its
store based on whether they complement the reading experience.  Anyone who wants or needs a tablet isn’t likely to be
satisfied with the Nook Color for too long. The more you use it,
the more apparent its functionality and performance issues
become. But readers who just want to occasionally check e-mail
or surf the Web without pulling out another device -- or
shelling out twice as much for the cheapest iPad -- should find
the upgraded Nook Color a handy companion.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 