-- 
Comcast Says NBC Broadcast Will Take Years to Turn Around

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-04T20:42:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/comcast-s-burke-says-nbc-broadcast-unit-will-take-years-to-turn-around.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the U.S. cable company
that took control of NBC Universal in January, will likely have
to spend “a number of years” turning around the unit’s
broadcast business, said Comcast Executive Vice President
Stephen Burke.  Comcast will try to boost ratings and revenue for NBC,
which has lost ground against rivals such as  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox. Comcast said yesterday that broadcast television
revenue fell to $1.35 billion in the first quarter from $2.08
billion a year earlier, when results included the Olympics.  “We are under-performing relative to the other three of
the big four dramatically, hundreds of millions of dollars worse
that the other three,” said Burke, who is also chief executive
officer of  NBC Universal , in a conference call today.  The Philadelphia-based company plans to spend $200 million
more on new broadcast shows this year and $100 million more on
new cable shows, said Burke during the call.  “We look at that as a tremendous opportunity,” said
Burke. “It is a very tough business to turn around, and I think
it is likely to take us a number of years. But when we do, going
from fourth to third would be hundreds of millions of dollars.”  Comcast fell 65 cents to $25.96 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. Shares have risen 18 percent this year.  The Philadelphia-based company yesterday reported an
increase in first-quarter revenue and profit with the addition
of broadband subscribers and the completion of a deal for
control of NBC Universal. Revenue rose to $12.1 billion, from
$9.2 billion a year ago, when it didn’t control NBC Universal.  ‘Work to Be Done’  Comcast closed on its purchase of 51 percent of NBC
Universal from General Electric Co. in January. GE still owns
the remaining 49 percent.  NBC Universal made up about 30 percent of Comcast’s revenue
for the quarter. NBC’s revenue was $4.35 billion compared with
$4.92 billion a year ago. Excluding the Olympics, which brought
in $782 million in the first quarter of 2010, NBC revenue rose
5.2 percent.  “If there’s anything that came out today on the
financials, it’s that there’s still a lot more work to be done
on the NBC broadcast network,” said Vijay Jayant, an analyst at
Citadel Securities LLC in  New York , who has a “strong buy”
rating on Comcast shares.  NBC trails CBS, Fox and Walt Disney Co.’s ABC in primetime
ratings this television season, according to the market research
firm Nielsen Co. Comcast is spending more on primetime
programming this year to replace “The Jay Leno Show” at 10
p.m., which was canceled last year.  Cable Growth  Revenue from cable networks, which include  MSNBC , Bravo,
E!, and Versus, rose 13 percent to $2.02 billion in the first
quarter. Ratings increased for nearly all cable stations, said
Tom Eagan, an analyst at Collins Stewart LLC in New York.  Comcast added 639,000 new Internet, video and voice
subscribers, an 8.3 percent increase from a year earlier, the
company said in a statement yesterday. Net income was $943
million, or 34 cents a share, compared with $866 million, or 31
cents, a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  