-- 
Connecticut Raises Taxes a Record $2.6 Billion for Budget

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-05-04T20:33:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/connecticut-raises-taxes-a-record-2-6-billion-for-budget-2-.html
Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy
signed a $40.1 billion two-year budget that raises taxes by
$2.6 billion, the biggest increase in state history, according
to Republicans who fought the plan.  The  budget  passed by the House of Representatives and
Senate yesterday raises taxes on incomes of more than $50,000 a
year. It boosts the retail-sales levy to 6.35 percent from 6
percent while broadening it to cover previously exempt goods and
services. The rate becomes 7 percent on “luxuries” such as
$1,000-plus clothing and boats above $100,000.  “Unlike so many other states which have seized the
opportunity to restructure government and make it sustainable,
we continue on a bender,” Senator Andrew Roraback, a Goshen
Republican, said before voting against the budget backed by
Malloy, a Democrat elected in November. “We’re going to be
spending more next year by taxing people,” Roraback said.  Connecticut ’s plan contrasts with one signed by New York
Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat who resisted lawmakers’
attempts to extend a temporary surcharge on millionaires from
2009. The budget he pushed through in March closed a $10 billion
deficit without new taxes. Governor  Chris Christie , a New Jersey
Republican, pledged to block levy increases and is pushing for
worker concessions to overcome a $10.5 billion budget gap.  Labor Concessions  Malloy’s plan also counts on $2 billion of unspecified
concessions from state workers over two years that must be
agreed to by May 31 or he is required to provide an alternative
way to balance the budget. Malloy  defeated  Republican  Tom Foley 
by 6,404 votes, or less than 1 percent of the total cast, to
become the  first Democrat  to win the office since 1986.  When the state adopted an income tax in 1991, it produced
revenue of $1.1 billion in the first year, according to Brett
Cody, a spokesman for Republican Senate Leader John McKinney of
Fairfield. Rate increases in the budget passed yesterday would
raise $1.4 billion in the year that starts in July and $1.2
billion in fiscal 2013.  Malloy faced a $6.2 billion deficit over the next two
fiscal years, according to Derek Slap, a spokesman for Senate
President Donald Williams. The state had the third-highest  local
and state tax burden  in the U.S. in 2008, trailing only No. 1
 New Jersey  and New York, according to the  Tax Foundation , a
research organization in  Washington .  Before Deadline  The Nutmeg State’s Legislature adopted the spending plan
based on Malloy’s proposals almost two months before the fiscal
year begins. Both chambers are controlled by Democrats. The last
biennial budget, totaling $37.6 billion, was passed two months
late in 2009, when Republican Jodi Rell was governor.  The Senate  voted  19-17 for the spending plan shortly after
3 a.m. local time yesterday after about 11 hours of debate.
Three Democrats joined Republicans in opposition. The House
 voted  83-67 for the budget just before midnight after 10 hours
of debate, with 15 Democrats and 52 Republicans opposing it.  “I know it’s a tough vote -- it’s also the right vote,”
Malloy, 55, said yesterday in a statement. “The budget is
balanced, honest and contains none of the gimmicks that helped
get us into this mess.”  Connecticut’s income tax will become more progressive, with
six income brackets instead of three, adding 5.5 percent, 6
percent and 6.7 percent rates under the spending plan. Residents
reporting earnings of more than $50,000 will pay 5.5 percent, up
from 5 percent. Top earners, including couples making $1 million
or more, will pay 6.7 percent, up from 6.5 percent. The plan
also creates an earned-income tax credit for lower-paid workers.  Structurally Balanced  “It’s a budget that is structurally balanced,” said
Nicole Johnson, a Moody’s analyst in  New York . “It doesn’t have
deficit bonds. It doesn’t have a lot of one-shots. That, in and
of itself, is a positive move.”  Malloy ruled out using deficit financing to close the
budget gap, a strategy employed by his predecessor and Democrats
in the Legislature. Comptroller Kevin Lembo  said  May 2 that the
state will end fiscal 2011 with a $509.6 million surplus, which
he said should be used to pay down debt or replenish reserves.  The wealthiest U.S. state, Connecticut had per-capita
personal income of $55,063 in 2009, Commerce Department  data 
show. It has the  highest  net tax-supported debt of any state, at
$4,859 per resident, Moody’s Investors Service has said.  Moody’s rates the state’s general-obligation debt Aa2,
while  Standard & Poor’s  gives it an AA grade, both third-
highest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on
Connecticut general-obligation bonds maturing in 10 years fell
to 3.29 percent yesterday, the lowest since March, Bloomberg
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  