-- 
Cute Frog Battling Chytridiomycosis Poses for a Sierra Close-Up

-- B y   K e l l y   B a s t o n e
-- 
2011-05-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/cute-frog-battling-chytridiomycosis-poses-for-her-close-up-in-high-sierra.html
Clouds of mosquitoes assault Vance
Vredenburg’s skin as he crouches beside a pond in  California ’s
Sixty Lake Basin.  In this remote corner of  King’s Canyon National Park , the
tiny bloodsuckers outnumber people by a million to one.  Vredenburg makes regular forays here to study yellow-legged
frogs, which seem immune to the swarm, but their skin is
actually under attack from another, much deadlier menace:
chytridiomycosis, or chytrid, a fungus that has decimated frogs
that were once as abundant as the mosquitoes.  For Vredenburg, a biology professor at  San Francisco State
University , getting here requires a 17-mile hike over three
mountain passes in the High Sierra that reach nearly 12,000
feet.  “These are the most pristine areas we have,” he says,
“yet even here, frogs are disappearing. Now, when you look into
these high-mountain lakes, you see no life, not even a
tadpole.”  This new disease began invading High Sierra lakes and
streams in the 1960s or ‘70s. Now, Sixty Lake Basin, once home
to the world’s largest-known population of yellow-legged frogs,
supports just 100 individuals.  “There used to be so many frogs that when they started
hopping away, it looked like the whole shore was moving,”
recalls Harold Werner, a wildlife ecologist at  Sequoia and Kings
Canyon National Parks , about a site he observed in the early
1990s. Yet from  Yosemite National Park  to the hills above  Los
Angeles  -- the species’ entire range -- only 5,000 adults
remain.  Facing Extinction  Chytrid has driven at least 200 of the planet’s 6,700
amphibian species to extinction and threatens one-third of
remaining frogs, toads and salamanders. It’s the worst case in
recorded history of a single pathogen causing damage to
vertebrates.  But for the Sierra’s iconic frog, chytrid is just the most
recent blow.  In the late 1800s, the population was weakened by nonnative
trout introduced to mountain lakes that previously contained no
fish (settlers found the fishless waters strange and unnatural).  The transplants wreaked havoc on the frogs, devouring
tadpoles and interfering with their lake-to-lake migrations.
When chytrid arrived, it found a compromised frog population
that wasn’t robust enough to resist the disease.  Now the race is on to save yellow-legged frogs before they
disappear completely.  Most efforts have focused on trout removal: Various
agencies, including the  National Park Service , have used gill
nets to remove fish from lakes and “electrofishers” to stun
fish in streams, sending them to the surface where they’re
netted and destroyed.  Educating the Public  The National Parks Conservation Association  has supported
efforts to remove fish and has worked to educate the public
about the need to restore fish-free habitat. In such waters,
frog populations have increased as much as 17 times -- and
bigger populations are better able to resist chytrid by
improving the odds that a few individuals will have natural
resistance to the disease.  Vredenburg, meanwhile, is pursuing a different avenue.
After noticing that some frogs carry bacteria that are toxic to
chytrid, he designed an experiment to see whether distributing
those bacteria among the larger population might counteract the
fungus.  So he has been trekking into Sequoia and Kings Canyon’s
backcountry, capturing frogs and dipping them in a bacterial
bath before releasing them.  It’s too soon to tell whether the inoculations will prove
effective -- but if they do, the study has implications for
amphibians worldwide and ultimately could protect hundreds, if
not thousands, of species.  Invasive Remedy?  In some circles, Vredenburg’s bacterial bath is deemed
invasive and manipulative. But “that level of intervention is
not as serious as the consequences to biodiversity should this
species go extinct,” says David Graber, the Park Service’s
chief scientist for the Pacific West Region. He thinks that
desperate times call for desperate measures: If invasive methods
can save species from extinction, they’re worth pursuing, even
within our national parks.  For example, Sequoia and Kings Canyon propose to poison
trout out of their waters -- something that Wilderness Watch and
some members of the public oppose.  Yet electrofishing is tedious (one 10-year effort produced
just 1.4 miles of fish-free stream), and because the basins are
interconnected, fish re-inhabit waters where others were
removed.  ‘Short-Term Impact’  “We’re looking at 50 miles of stream we’d like to treat
over the next 20 to 30 years, and there’s simply no way to do
that without chemicals,” says Werner. “We’re pursuing short-
term impact for long-term preservation.”  Should the yellow-legged frog disappear, the High Sierra
would lose its keystone species. If it rebounds, other species
will follow suit: birds, snakes, insects and likely bats and
small mammals.  “A complex system has a lot of checks and balances in it,
which support ecological diversity,” explains Werner.  Besides, says Vredenburg, if humans brought on the factors
that are devastating yellow-legged frogs, we bear the burden of
attempting a remedy. “These systems can bounce back,” he says,
“if we just give them the chance to do it.”  (Freelance writer Kelly Bastone lives in Steamboat Springs,
 Colorado , and writes for National Parks magazine, where this
article originally ran. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 