-- 
Czech Central Bank May Move Closer to Raising Record-Low Rate

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-05-04T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/czech-central-bank-may-move-closer-to-raising-record-low-rate.html
The Czech central bank will probably
leave the benchmark interest rate at a record low for an eighth
meeting and move forward its forecast for monetary tightening as
inflation is set to accelerate.  The Ceska Narodni Banka will keep the two-week repurchase
rate at 0.75 percent, a half-point below the  European Central
Bank ’s main rate, at a policy meeting today, according to 13 of
17 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Four forecast a quarter-point
increase. The bank will announce its decision at 1 p.m. in
 Prague  and will also publish an updated economic outlook.  “We think the new forecast will bring the first increase in
interest rates closer from the end of the year,” Lubos Mokras,
an analyst at Ceska Sporitelna AS, the Czech unit of Erste Group
Bank, said. “What is still speaking against an immediate
increase in interest rates is a slightly stronger koruna and
negative demand-driven inflation.”  Monetary authorities around the world are struggling to
contain inflation pressures caused by higher oil and food
prices. Czech policy makers have kept rates unchanged for a year
as inflation holds below the bank’s target and an economic
recovery slows.  The ECB raised its main rate a quarter-point to 1.25
percent in April to stem price growth. Several countries in
eastern  Europe , including Hungary, Poland and  Russia , started
raising interest rates last year to slow inflation.  Koruna Gains  The Czech koruna has gained 3.5 percent to the euro this
year, the third-best performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Forward-rate agreements locking
in three-month interest rates in three months, were at 1.44
percent on May 4, compared with the three-month Prague Interbank
Offered Rate, or PRIBOR, at 1.20 percent.  The central bank’s updated economic outlook may bring a
revision of its consumer-price growth forecast. In February the
bank saw the headline inflation rate matching the 2 percent
target in the first quarter of 2012 before rising to 2.1 percent
in the following three months.  The February forecast also signaled rising interest rates
from the end of this year. A better economic outlook, higher  oil
prices  and the higher trajectory of ECB rates point to earlier
monetary tightening, Mokras said.  Czech policy makers have shown differing views on inflation
risks, with some board members advocating higher borrowing
costs.  Eva Zamrazilova  voted for a quarter-point increase at the
last meeting on March 24. Kamil Janacek, who didn’t attend the
last rate-setting meeting, said on April 6 he wanted to lift
rates at today’s session.  Mixed Signals  The economy and developments abroad are sending mixed
signals about inflation risks, which is increasing
“uncertainty” and clouding the interest-rate outlook, central
bank Governor Miroslav Singer said in an interview on April 16.  Demand pressures are weaker than the central bank forecast
and offsetting upward inflation risks caused by higher commodity
costs, Singer said. He also said the next forecast may “stress
a little bit more inflationary risks than the previous one”
because of the commodity prices.  Czech inflation slowed to 1.7 percent in March from 1.8
percent in February, below the central bank’s target for a third
month. The  unemployment rate  dropped to 9.2 percent in March
from a 6-year high of 9.9 percent in February 2010 as
improvement on the job market traditionally lags behind a
revival in economic growth because businesses focus on
increasing productivity rather than hiring new employees.  “It’s difficult to say how the anti-inflationary
developments in the economy and pro-inflationary external
environment will influence the new CNB forecast,” Komercni
Banka AS, a unit of  Societe Generale , wrote in a report to
clients on May 3. “However, it seems that the inflation outlook
for next year should move upwards, along with the implied
interest rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  