-- 
Deal Lawyer Chen Makes Initial Offering in Singapore Parliament Elections

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-05-04T01:35:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/davis-polk-deal-lawyer-chen-makes-initial-offering-in-singapore-elections.html
Chen Show-Mao, after years of advising
on deals like  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) ’s $22.1 billion
initial share sale, has a new type of offering in the works: His
opposition-party candidacy to join Singapore’s parliament.  “We want to help you to ask the serious questions that
will make our democratic system of government work better,” the
head of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP’s Beijing office told more
than 20,000 people in a suburban Singapore sports stadium last 
week in his first campaign speech before the May 7 elections.  A victory by Chen and his  Workers’ Party  team, which is
contesting in a district that elects five representatives,
would alone more than double the number of opposition seats in
parliament. A Chen team win would also oust  Singapore ’s Foreign
Minister George Yeo, who is leading the  People’s Action Party 
candidates in that constituency.  PAP co-founder Lee Kuan Yew has dubbed the 50-year-old
lawyer a “celebrity” who hasn't lived in the country for decades
and said voters will “repent” if they don’t elect the ruling 
party. The PAP’s 52-year stretch in government has made the 
country  Asia ’s  richest  per capita.  Opposition parties, which previously haven’t run enough
candidates to prevent the PAP from returning to power on
nomination day, are challenging 82 of 87 seats this year.  While analysts including Lim Jit Soon, Nomura Securities’
Singapore research head, said they expect another clear victory
for the PAP, they said a lower share of the public's vote could
see some policy changes. The PAP won 67 percent of the vote and 
all but 2 of the seats in parliament in the 2006 poll.  Reviewed Policies  “If the PAP achieves a significantly reduced popular vote
it may look to review some of its policies like immigration,”
Lim said in a strategy note titled ‘Times they are a-changin.’  Foreigners make up 36 percent of  Singapore’s 5.1 million
population , up from 14 percent in 1990, boosting the economy and
creating jobs for Singaporeans, the government says.  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said last month that
investments such as a new $3 billion memory chip plant built by
 Intel Corp . and Micron Technology Inc. wouldn’t have been
possible without foreign workers. Opposition parties have
questioned if growth is being pursued at too high a cost by
letting too many foreigners in.  “How many hundreds of thousands of foreign workers to
bring in every year is enough?” Chen asked in his April 28
rally speech to roars of approval. He declined to be interviewed
for this story.  ‘Success Story’  Chen himself is a “success story” of Singapore’s
immigration policy, Law Minister K. Shanmugam said April 29.
Chen  came to Singapore from Taiwan  with his parents and younger
sister when he was 11 in 1972. He has spent the last 30 years
overseas.  He graduated with an economics degree from Harvard, won a
Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford and got his law doctorate from
 Stanford University  before joining  Davis Polk  in  New York  in
1992.  PAP leaders such as organizing secretary Ng Eng Hen have
asked if Chen can identify with the aspirations of Singaporeans
after spending most of his life overseas.  “I’ve spent all this time abroad, but that doesn’t mean I
stop being Singaporean,” he said when announcing his candidacy
last week.  Chen, who took Singapore nationality in 1986 after serving
in the country’s army, said living elsewhere “enhanced rather
than diluted” his sense of being Singaporean.  Dealmaker  Chen’s work at Davis Polk included advising  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  on
its $18.5 billion bid for Unocal Corp. and the global IPOs of
companies including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd.,
 Air China Ltd. (601111) ,  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  and  China
Unicom Hong Kong Ltd. (762)   The American Lawyer magazine, a trade publication, named
him one of its  dealmakers of 2010  for managing the Agricultural
Bank IPO, which was underwritten by investment banks that
included  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   “In the second half of my life, I would like to give
something back to my country,” Chen said at his nomination
announcement, adding that he planned to relocate his wife and
three children to Singapore from Beijing regardless of whether
he gets elected.  Chen will be retiring from  Davis Polk , Hong Kong-based
partner William Barron said. “We appreciate all of his efforts
at the firm and wish him all the best of luck.”  Public Service Culture  Davis Polk is a firm where public service has been part of
the culture, said Anthony Root, who first met Chen when they
opened the firm’s  Hong Kong  office in 1993.  “It’s a good thing for Singapore to have someone with his
international experience, integrity and quiet wisdom offering to
serve,” said Root, who now heads Asia for Milbank, Tweed,
Hadley & McCloy LLP.  Chen is putting a lot on the line, said Wilson Ang, a
Singapore-based corporate lawyer who got to know him when both
worked for different international firms in Hong Kong.
“Politics is a rough and tumble game.”  Two lawyers with Singapore law firms who previously ran as
Workers’ Party candidates have been sued for defamation by PAP
leaders. A third was fined for  tax evasion  after the election.  Tang Liang Hong, who contested the 1997 elections, was
ordered to pay a record S$8 million ($6.5 million) for defaming
11 PAP members including then Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong and
 Lee Kuan Yew , the father of the current premier who led the PAP
to eight  election victories  before stepping down in 1990. The
amount was later reduced to S$3.6 million.  Transparent Laws  Tang’s wife, who was named as a defendant in the lawsuits,
was bankrupted and is still paying the debt, Tang said from
 Melbourne , where he now lives.  The PAP says Singapore’s rules and laws are transparent and
rejects suggestions that it uses defamation suits to dissuade
political opposition.  “It is a pattern because there is a pattern amongst the
opposition leaders to accuse us of wrongdoing,” Goh said in a
September 2003  interview with the BBC . “It’s a pattern for us
to restore the harm that they have done to our reputation.”  At his nomination announcement, Chen said he was aware of
the need to be as careful as possible in formulating his public
comments.  Lee Kuan Yew, the oldest member of  Singapore’s cabinet  at
87, has said the ruling party would accept the loss of the
Aljunied district Chen is contesting. At the same time, he added
that its voters have to accept the consequences of choosing a
team including a “celebrity who has been away 30 years.”  ‘Live and Repent’  “If Aljunied decides to go that way, well Aljunied has
five years to live and repent,” he said, adding that property
values in the area may fall with the PAP government
prioritizing districts it wins for improvements.  Singapore is tolerant and open enough for a voice like
Chen’s, said Eduardo Ramos-Gomez, managing partner of Duane
Morris LLP’s Asian offices.  “He’s committed to the cause and believes that he can
present a different dialogue and view to Singapore,” said
Ramos-Gomez, who has served with Chen on  the advisory board  of
the Singapore Management University School of Law since 2007 and
was  Mexico ’s ambassador to the city state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  