-- 
Defeating Slim Makes Maxcom’s 21% Yields a Buy to JPMorgan: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-05-04T21:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/defeating-slim-makes-maxcom-s-21-yields-a-buy-to-jpmorgan-mexico-credit.html
Maxcom Telecomunicaciones SAB’s bonds
are rebounding and yields are down from record levels in
overseas markets after JPMorgan Chase & Co. said the Mexican
phone company may win a battle to cut fees charged by
billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB.  Yields on Maxcom’s dollar bonds due 2014 have declined 286
basis points, or 2.86 percentage points, to 19.219 percent from
a record 22.078 percent on April 28. Yields on Mexican corporate
dollar debt fell four basis points while those on Latin American
 utility companies  rose nine during the same period, according to
data compiled by JPMorgan and Credit Suisse Group AG.  Maxcom, a Mexico City-based fixed-line company that has
posted five straight quarterly losses, is asking regulators to
reduce interconnection fees charged by America Movil,  Latin
America ’s largest wireless carrier. On May 2, regulators ruled
in favor of Grupo Televisa SAB in its bid to cut  America Movil 
fees, bolstering speculation that Maxcom will also win its case
as the government seeks to curb Slim’s dominance in the mobile-
phone and fixed-line markets.  “We feel more positive about the credit now because of the
interconnectivity fees,” said Mary Austin, who manages $469
million in high-yield debt, including Maxcom bonds, at
Portsmouth, New Hampshire-based Pax World Management LLC.
“Believe me, we were worried about it for a while because of
the liquidity issues.”  ‘Cash Burn’  Yields on Maxcom’s 11 percent bonds soared 438 basis points
in the first four months of the year as  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered the company’s credit rating to B-, or six levels below
investment grade, on March 3, citing a “high cash burn rate.”
Moody’s Investors Service rates Maxcom Caa1, or seven levels
below investment grade.  The bonds yield 1,729 basis points more than similar-
maturity Mexican government dollar bonds, up from 1,476 basis
points at the end of 2010.  Customer losses at Maxcom led to a net loss of 38 million
pesos ($3.3 million) in the January-to-March quarter, compared
with a 57 million-peso loss a year earlier. The company has
replaced its chairman, chief executive officer and chief
financial officer in the past eight months.  While Maxcom is waiting on the regulator’s ruling, it began
to pay the reduced connection fee of 39 centavos per call to
America Movil in January. America Movil, controlled by Slim,
whom Forbes magazine ranks as the world’s richest person,
charges 95 centavos.  An official in the press office of the Federal
Telecommunications Commission declined to comment.  America Movil may appeal the commission’s rulings in
Mexican courts, Chief Executive Officer Daniel Hajj said
yesterday on a conference call.  JPMorgan’s ‘Overweight’  Miguel Cabredo, Maxcom’s chief financial officer, told
investors on an April 29 conference call that the lower fees
will save the company about 200 million pesos this year.  JPMorgan analysts raised Maxcom’s bonds to “overweight”
from “marketweight” on May 2, saying the securities may
generate returns of as much as 8 percent in the next two months.  “We assign a high probability of a ruling in Maxcom’s
favor,” wrote Jacob Steinfeld, an analyst at JPMorgan
Securities in  New York . “The potential earnings are too high to
ignore.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened 3 basis points to 143,
according to JPMorgan.  Alestra Victory  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 98, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with
debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.6 percent to 11.6440 per  U.S. dollar  at 5
p.m. New York time. Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day
interbank rate due in October fell 8 basis points to 5.04
percent.  S&P maintained a negative outlook on Maxcom debt after the
rating downgrade.  “The negative outlook reflects the company’s tight
liquidity and our expectations of continued weak financial
performance,” S&P analysts Marcela Duenas and Fabiola Ortiz
wrote in a March 14 note in  Mexico  City.  Maxcom is one of dozens of phone carriers disputing America
Movil’s fee to connect customers to its network.  Supreme Court Ruling  The Federal Telecommunications Commission ruled in March
that fixed-line phone carrier Alestra SA should pay America
Movil a rate of 39 centavos a minute, less than half the rate
America Movil was seeking. This week, the regulator fixed the
same 39-centavo rate for calls from customers of Televisa and
NII Holdings Inc. to America Movil.  Maxcom expects an identical ruling for its own dispute with
America Movil this month, Cabredo said on the conference call.  A Supreme Court ruling yesterday made it more difficult for
America Movil to protect the prices it wants to charge
competitors. The company can no longer seek an injunction to
allow it to keep charging competitors a higher price while
appealing the decision on a fee cut, according to the ruling.  Televisa, NII and other carriers have said America Movil is
hurting competition by keeping the interconnection fees too
high. Mexico’s antitrust agency fined America Movil $1 billion
last month, saying its market share allows it to control prices
on the connection fees. America Movil plans to appeal the
ruling, Hajj said.  Threat to Investment  While the company has been lowering its fees, bigger cuts
could reduce investment in the industry, Hajj said.  Maxcom’s residential phone lines slid 1 percent to 223,648
last quarter, while Internet subscriptions climbed 38 percent to
89,219 and TV clients rose 27 percent to 49,598.  The first-quarter results make it “more than ever
certain” that Maxcom will generate cash this year, Cabredo said
on the conference call. Manuel Perez, Maxcom’s investor
relations director, said in an interview yesterday that the
company will service its debt while declining to comment on the
dispute with America Movil.  “We are really confident we’ll be able to cover our
liabilities,” Perez said in a phone interview from Mexico City.
“The company will make important improvements this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  