-- 
Delhaize Net Misses Estimates on U.S. Store Costs, Payrolls

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-05-04T15:48:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/delhaize-net-misses-estimates-on-u-s-store-costs-payrolls-1-.html
Delhaize Group SA (DELB) , the owner of the
Food Lion supermarkets, reported profit that missed analysts’
estimates as costs for remodeling stores in the U.S. and Belgian
wage indexation outpaced sales growth.  First-quarter net income dropped 2.9 percent to 126 million
euros ($187 million), the Brussels-based grocer said today in a
statement. Profit missed the 130.3 million-euro average of 10
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 1.5 percent
to 5.04 billion euros.  Delhaize is remodeling its Food Lion supermarkets following
price cuts last year and opened more Bottom Dollar Food stores
to revive sales growth in the U.S. The grocer aims to fund those
investments from gross savings of 500 million euros. Sales at
U.S. stores open at least a year declined 0.3 percent in the
quarter, for a seventh straight drop. Earnings in  Belgium 
decreased as higher payroll expenses outweighed stable same-
store sales, which were eroded by additional price cuts.  “In transforming the Food Lion we want for the years to
come, we are impacting a quarter here and a quarter there,”
Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Olivier Beckers said on a
conference call with analysts. “Overall our recipe is very
simple: investing in places and saving in others, so we can
initially fuel the transformation.”  Weaker Dollar  Delhaize fell 1.28 euros, or 2.2 percent, to a five-week
low of 56.80 euros at the 5:35 p.m. close of trading in
Brussels. The shares had gained 5.1 percent this year before
today.  Earnings before interest, tax and excluding the effect of a
stronger dollar slid 10 percent in the first quarter, a reversal
from two quarters of earnings growth.  Delhaize repeated it expects “operating profit
generation” to accelerate starting this quarter. That guidance
doesn’t account for a weaker dollar, which has traded about 7.7
percent lower on average against the euro in the current
quarter.  The grocer forecast it will add as many as 125 stores
globally this year, net of closings and excluding the purchase
of  Serbia ’s Delta Maxi Group , an increase from an earlier
guidance of as many as 110, because of anticipated acquisitions
in  Greece .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  