-- 
Deutsche Bank Sued by City of Los Angeles for Evicting Low-Income Tenants

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-04T20:07:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/deutsche-bank-sued-by-los-angeles-over-foreclosed-properties-evictions.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was sued by the  Los
Angeles  city attorney for allegedly failing to maintain
foreclosed properties and illegally evicting low-income tenants.  The bank has become “one of the major slumlords in the
city” by buying more than 2,200 properties through foreclosure
and letting vacant buildings fall into disrepair, Los Angeles
City Attorney Carmen Trutanich said today at a press conference.
The bank also unlawfully evicted tenants in order to sell
buildings, he said.  “They hurt the most economically vulnerable people in the
city,” Trutanich said. “They failed to make necessary repairs
and tenants were condemned to live in substandard conditions.”  The lawsuit filed in California state court comes a day
after the U.S.  Justice Department  sued the German bank for more
than $1 billion, claiming it lied while arranging federal
insurance on faulty mortgages. Deutsche Bank’s MortgageIT unit
falsely certified that it was examining default risks while
qualifying loans for Federal Housing Administration insurance,
according to the government.  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based bank,
said the complaint filed by the Los Angeles City Attorney is
“against the wrong party,” according to an e-mailed statement.
“Loan servicers, and not Deutsche Bank as trustee, are
contractually responsible for both the maintenance of foreclosed
properties and any actions taken with respect to tenants of
foreclosed properties.”  ‘Unreasonable and Unfair’  Calabro yesterday called the federal government’s lawsuit
“unreasonable and unfair” and said the company would fight the
litigation.  Deutsche Bank and MortgageIT concealed problem loans
through “egregious” violations of federal rules for analyzing
the income and creditworthiness of borrowers, the Justice
Department said in a complaint filed yesterday in Manhattan
federal court. MortgageIT endorsed more than 39,000 loans for
FHA insurance after 1999, making them “highly marketable for
resale,” the U.S. said. Of those, 12,500 defaulted.  Trutanich seeks a court order for Deutsche Bank to clean up
the Los Angeles properties and comply with the city’s municipal
code, a $2,500 penalty per day for each violation of the city’s
code, as well as restitution. The bank could be liable for
“hundreds of millions of dollars,” the city attorney said
today in a statement.  Frank Mateljan, a spokesman for Trutanich, said in an
e-mailed statement that the lawsuit was filed on behalf of the
people of  California . Deutsche Bank, as the owner of the
properties, is ultimately responsible for compliance with the
law, Mateljan said.  The case is The People v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.,
BC460878, Superior Court of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 