-- 
Deutsche Bank, Goldman, UBS, Glaxo, BP, Mylan in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-04T11:38:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/deutsche-bank-disney-goldman-glaxo-bp-mylan-in-court-news.html
The U.S. Department of Justice may
pursue claims against other lenders after suing  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
for more than $1 billion, alleging the firm lied while arranging
federal insurance on faulty mortgages.  The Housing and Urban Development Department is examining
loans insured through the Federal Housing Administration and may
refer additional cases to the Justice Department, HUD’s general
counsel, Helen Kanovsky, said yesterday in an interview.  “We go where the evidence takes us, and if it takes us to
the larger players on Wall Street, so be it,” Kanovsky said.
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said it wouldn’t be a “fantastical
stretch” for prosecutors to scrutinize other lenders.  Deutsche Bank’s MortgageIT unit falsely certified that it
was examining default risks while qualifying loans for FHA
insurance, according to the government’s complaint. HUD has
already borne $386 million in claims and costs, and has yet to
make payments on defaulted loans with principal balances of $888
million. Some mortgages stem from the housing boom, when the
industry eased lending standards, fueling more than $2 trillion
in credit losses and writedowns.  “Nobody was doing any mortgage due diligence whatsoever,”
said Christopher Thornberg, principal at Beacon Economics LLC in
 Los Angeles . He said the government may have brought the claim
against Deutsche Bank as a “test case” before targeting other
banks or seeking to force settlements.  “The only question is, ‘Who’s next?’” Thornberg said.  Kanovsky and Bharara declined to identify lenders that
might face claims.  “We could see another potential big negative for the
industry out of this,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner for
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and an analyst with FBR
Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. “It’s going to be a
continued earnings drag on the industry.”  Deutsche Bank said it will “vigorously” fight the
government’s allegations.  “We believe the claims against MortgageIT and Deutsche
Bank are unreasonable and unfair,” Renee Calabro, a spokeswoman
for the Frankfurt-based company, said by e-mail. “Close to 90
percent of the activity covered by the DOJ allegations happened
prior to Deutsche Bank’s acquisition of MortgageIT.”  Deutsche Bank and MortgageIT concealed problem loans
through “egregious” violations of HUD rules for analyzing the
income and creditworthiness of borrowers, according to the
Justice Department’s complaint filed yesterday in Manhattan
federal court. MortgageIT endorsed more than 39,000 loans for
FHA insurance after 1999, making them “highly marketable for
resale,” the U.S. said. Of those, 12,500 defaulted.  The Justice Department didn’t file criminal charges or
identify employees.  The case is U.S. v. Deutsche Bank AG, 11-cv-2976, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Savvis Sued by Investor Over $2.5 Billion CenturyLink Offer  Savvis Inc. (SVVS) , which provides online business data storage,
was sued in Delaware Chancery Court by an investor who contends
a $2.5 billion cash-and-stock buyout offer from phone company
 CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)  is inadequate.  Stockholder Hilary Kramer claims Savvis directors violated
their duties by failing to get the best possible price and seeks
an injunction to stop the deal, according to a complaint filed
yesterday in Wilmington.  “Defendants failed to explore strategic alternatives to a
buyout notwithstanding Savvis’ bright prospects for growth and
profitability” in advanced “cloud” computer-data hosting
services, Kramer said in the filing.  Town & Country, Missouri-based Savvis, 18 percent owned by
the Welsh Carson Anderson & Stowe venture capital firm of New
York, reported $933 million in revenue last year.  Savvis and Monroe, Louisiana-based CenturyLink announced
the buyout agreement April 27, with Savvis stockholders to
receive $30 in cash and $10 in CenturyLink shares for each of
their shares, an 11 percent premium at the time.  Matt Benson, a spokesman for Savvis in  San Francisco ,
didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Hilary Kramer v. James E. Ousley and Savvis
Inc., CA6438, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Disney Unit Sues Dish Network for Giving Away Starz Movies  A  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  unit sued  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, for copyright violations in
connection with the distribution of movies on the Starz service.  Dish was accused of giving subscribers  free access  to the
Starz premium television service, including copyrighted movies
that were provided by Disney on the condition that Starz operate
as a premium channel such as HBO, Cinemax and Showtime, the suit
says. Starz, a unit of John Malone’s Liberty Media Corp., wasn’t
named in the suit filed May 2 in federal court in New York.  “Dish’s unlawful distribution, transmission, copying and
public display and/or performance of the Starz programming,
including Disney Enterprises’ copyrighted movies, has already
resulted in the repeated and continuing infringement of
plaintiffs’ copyright rights,” the suit says.  A voice-mail message left with Dish Network’s media
relations office wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is Disney Enterprises Inc. vs. Dish Network LLC,
11-cv-2973, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan)  Italy Consumer Group Challenges Lactalis’s Parmalat Offer  Groupe Lactalis’s planned bid for  Parmalat SpA (PLT) , Italy’s
biggest dairy company, is being challenged in an administrative
court by Italian consumer group  Codacons .  Lactalis shouldn’t be allowed to make a tender offer
because the company doesn’t publicly disclose its accounts,
according to a statement published on Codacons website.  “A takeover by a company that doesn’t publish its accounts
violates the principle of transparency,” the consumer group
said. “It doesn’t allow those involved to make an informed
choice: neither investors, nor Parmalat, nor the unions nor
consumers.”  Codacons, joined by other consumer groups, filed the appeal
with the administrative court in the region of Lazio.  Lactalis, the privately held maker of President cheese, on
April 26 offered to pay 3.38 billion euros ($4.9 billion) in an
unsolicited bid for the 71 percent of Parmalat it doesn’t own to
create the world’s largest dairy company.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Ex-Goldman Programmer Aleynikov Denied Freedom During Appeal  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  computer programmer Sergey
Aleynikov won’t be freed from jail while he appeals a 97-month
prison term for stealing the firm’s computer trading code, a
federal appeals court ruled.  Aleynikov was convicted by a jury in December of violating
the Economic Espionage Act and the Interstate Transportation of
Stolen Property Act. His lawyer,  Kevin Marino , told a panel of
three appeals court judges for the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals that there was a substantial likelihood his client’s
conviction would be overturned.  On his last day of work at New York-based Goldman Sachs in
June 2009, Aleynikov uploaded hundreds of thousands of lines of
source code from the firm’s trading system, the U.S. said. He
then circumvented Goldman Sachs’s security system, sent the code
to an outside server in Germany, compressed and encrypted it and
later took it with him to a meeting with new employers in
Chicago.  “There is a substantial question as to whether stealing
computer source code violates either of these statutes,” Marino
said. “Goldman Sachs never intended to place its high-frequency
trading system into the stream of commerce.”  Marino argued during the trial that Aleynikov only took
open-source code he had written at Goldman Sachs and that
nothing he took was proprietary. U.S. District Judge  Denise
Cote , who presided over the trial, rejected the argument, and in
March, ordered Aleynikov jailed pending his appeal, saying he
posed a risk of flight.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph Facciponti yesterday told
the appeals court that Aleynikov still posed a flight risk.
Facciponti said prosecutors were confident the conviction would
be upheld because the U.S. believes Aleynikov violated the
statutes by first taking the source code and then transporting
it across state lines when he traveled to Chicago with it.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 1:10-cr-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Anadarko Prepared to ‘Come to the Table’ With BP, CEO Says  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the Texas company that owns a
stake in  BP Plc (BP/) ’s damaged Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico,
said it’s “prepared to come to the table” to resolve disputed
costs from last year’s oil spill.  Anadarko has filed a lawsuit blaming BP for the explosion
at Macondo on April 20, 2010, and the record offshore U.S. oil
spill that followed. BP is seeking billions of dollars from
Anadarko in spill-related costs for its interest in the project.  “We don’t think that we owe anything, but we also realize
that our investors would like us to consider some sort of
approach that’s perhaps a compromise from that,” Chief
Executive Officer Jim Hackett said during a conference call with
investors and analysts. “We’re prepared to come to the table
under the right circumstances.”  BP asked a judge to put the lawsuits on hold, saying a
joint-operating agreement requires the parties to first attempt
dispute resolution through arbitration.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Novell Antitrust Lawsuit Against Microsoft Revived by Court  Novell Inc. (NOVL) ’s antitrust lawsuit against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
accusing the world’s largest software maker of undermining
Novell’s WordPerfect program, was revived by a U.S. appeals
court in Virginia.  The federal appeals court in Richmond yesterday said Novell
didn’t give up its right to pursue the lawsuit when it
transferred its claims related to its personal computer
operating system products to Caldera Inc. in 1996.  “Although the underlying lawsuit involves complex issues
of antitrust law, the primary question before us is one of
contract interpretation: whether a 1996 contract between Novell
and a third company divested Novell of its right to bring the
present claim,” Judge Allyson Duncan wrote in the 2-1 decision.  Kevin Kutz , a spokesman for Microsoft, said the company
doesn’t think Novell’s case has any merit.  “We are disappointed with the Fourth’s Circuit’s decision
to reverse in part the district court’s summary judgment ruling
which dismissed these very old claims, although we are pleased
that at this point only one part of one of Novell’s claims
remains,” Kutz said in an e-mailed statement.  Ian Bruce, a spokesman for Novell, didn’t return a phone
message and an e-mail message seeking comment.  The lawsuit, filed in 2004, is a byproduct of the U.S.
government’s landmark case against Microsoft that was settled
more than eight years ago after the Redmond, Washington-based
company was declared an illegal monopolist.  The case is Novell Inc. v. Microsoft Corp., 10-1482, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  UBS Unit Loses $10.6 Million Sex-Harassment Verdict  UBS Financial Services Inc. lost a jury verdict of almost
$10.6 million in a case brought by a former sales assistant who
said she was sexually harassed by a supervisor in Missouri and
then fired for complaining about him.  Carla C. Ingraham, 51, who worked in the Kansas City,
Missouri, office of UBS Financial, said the company began
investigating her after she complained of harassment in December
2008 and fired her in July 2009. UBS Financial, a unit of
Zurich, Switzerland-based  UBS AG (UBSN) , denied the allegations.  The jury in Kansas City, Missouri, yesterday awarded
Ingraham $10 million in punitive damages, $350,000 for sexual
harassment and $242,000 for retaliation. UBS Financial is
considering whether to appeal the verdict, said  Karina Byrne , a
spokeswoman for the bank.  “The firm does not tolerate sexual harassment of any kind
against an employee,” Byrne said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. The company “prohibits any form of retaliation
against an employee who may file a complaint under the UBS
sexual-harassment policy.”  Byrne said the punitive-damages verdict will be limited to
$500,000 by caps on such awards.  Ingraham will also be seeking future lost pay and
attorneys’ fees to be added to the verdict, Dennis Egan, her
lawyer, said. These amounts will be determined by the court and
the punitive award will be capped at five times the final
judgment, under law, Egan said.  The case is Ingraham v. UBS Financial Services Inc., 0916-
CV-36471, Circuit Court, Jackson County, Missouri (Kansas City)  Glaxo Said to Pay $120 Million to Settle Denture-Cream Suits  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  has paid at least $120 million to
resolve claims that some of its  Poligrip  products have caused
neurological disorders because the denture cream contains zinc,
two people familiar with the accords said.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, resolved more than 100
lawsuits over the past nine months alleging it failed to warn
consumers about Poligrip’s zinc-related health risks, the people
said. The accords averaged more than $1 million apiece said the
people, who declined to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  “GSK has been dogged by litigation over a variety of its
products and has been moving aggressively to resolve those
cases,” Navid Malik, a London-based analyst with  Matrix
Corporate Capital LLP , said in a phone interview. “I see these
settlements as part of that effort.”  Officials of London-based Glaxo agreed in February to
remove zinc from its line of denture-cream products after
researchers linked some neurological problems, including nerve
damage, to heavy use of zinc-laden denture adhesives. The
company’s Super Poligrip Original, Ultra Fresh and Extra Care
products all contained the ingredient, which improves adhesive
power.  Bethany Burtyk, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for  Glaxo , said
the company doesn’t comment on cases in litigation.  Glaxo, which said in July 2010 that it had resolved some
Poligrip suits, noted this year in a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission  filing  it had “reached agreements in
principle to settle the vast majority of the current cases.”
Glaxo officials didn’t comment in the filing on the value of the
settlements.  The consolidated case is In Re Denture Cream Products
Liability Litigation, 09-02051, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida (Miami.)  For more, click here.  Actelion to Appeal Jury Verdict in Asahi Kasei Drug Dispute  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  will appeal a California jury verdict
awarding Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp. about $577 million in a
dispute over development of a lung drug.  Asahi Kasei yesterday won $30 million in punitive damages
from three executives of Allschwil, Switzerland-based Actelion,
on top of the $547 million in compensatory damages a state court
jury in San Mateo, California, last week determined that the
drugmaker must pay. No punitive damages were awarded against
Actelion or three other corporate defendants.  “The ruling is neither supported by the facts nor is it
correct as a matter of law,” Actelion said today in a
statement. The Swiss company said it filed a motion that may
lead to a “substantial reduction” in the compensatory figure.  The award may add to pressure on Actelion as the drugmaker
battles a hedge fund that has proposed that shareholders oust
board members at the annual meeting tomorrow. The fund, Elliott
Advisors (UK) Ltd., has said Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul
Clozel should leave Actelion’s board and the company should
consider options including a sale.  In the earlier liability phase of the trial, Tokyo-based
drugmaker Asahi Kasei claimed Actelion acquired CoTherix Inc. to
halt work on the fasudil lung drug and protect profit margins
for its own competing product, Tracleer. Before the acquisition,
CoTherix was developing fasudil with Asahi Kasei.  The case is Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp. v. Actelion Ltd., CIV
478533, Superior Court of California (San Mateo County).  For more, click here.  BP Unit to Pay $25 Million to Settle Alaska Spill Claims  A BP Plc unit agreed to pay $25 million to settle a U.S.
lawsuit stemming from two oil spills in Alaska and other alleged
environmental violations.  BP Exploration (Alaska) Inc., in filing yesterday in
federal court in Anchorage, Alaska, agreed to pay the civil
penalty and to make improvements on its pipelines. London-based
BP didn’t admit any liability, according to the proposed
agreement. The public will have 30 days to comment on the
settlement, which must be approved by a judge.  “Defendant has started implementation and operation of
some corrective measures, including replacement of the Prudhoe
Bay oil transit lines, improved leak detection on the oil
transit lines, and improved operation and maintenance of the
Pipeline System,” the Justice Department said in the proposed
agreement.  The U.S. sued BP in 2009 for violations of the Clean Air
Act, the Clean Water Act and federal pipeline-safety laws. The
violations arose from two spills of crude oil in Alaska in 2006
and improper removal of asbestos materials from its pipelines
that same year.  A BP spokesman,  Steve Rinehart , said in an e-mail that
“the terms of the agreement are fair.”  The case is U.S. v. BP Exploration (Alaska) Inc., 09-cv-
00064, U.S. District Court, District of Alaska (Anchorage).  Mylan Lawsuit Over Ranbaxy’s Lipitor Copy Thrown Out by Judge  Mylan Inc.’s lawsuit seeking to force the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration to act on  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) ’s
application to sell a generic version of Lipitor was dismissed
by a federal judge in Washington.  U.S. District Judge James Boasberg ruled that drugmakers
can’t sue over pending applications filed by their competitors,
according to an opinion filed May 2 in federal court in
Washington. He also said Mylan’s lawsuit is premature, since an
application from its Matrix Laboratories Ltd. subsidiary to sell
a copy of the cholesterol-lowering drug is still pending.  “Nothing prevents Mylan from seeking judicial recourse if
and when FDA renders a final exclusivity decision that is not to
Mylan’s liking,” Boasberg said in the ruling, quoting an FDA
document.  Ranbaxy plans to begin selling copies of the  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
drug in November, although it doesn’t yet have FDA clearance.
Mylan had sued the agency in March, claiming that it and other
generic-drug makers should be allowed to enter the market as
early as June because of manufacturing violations at two Ranbaxy
factories in India.  A call to Mylan’s corporate communications office after
regular business hours wasn’t immediately returned.  Sandy Walsh, an FDA spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return
a voice-mail message left after regular business hours.  The case is Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. U.S. Food and
Drug Administration, 11-cv-00566, U.S. District Court, District
of Columbia (Washington).  International Coal Liable for $104.1 Million, Court Rules  International Coal Group Inc. (ICO) , the company that agreed May
2 to be bought by  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI)  for $3.4 billion, said a court
held that it’s liable for $104.1 million after it breached a
coal supply contract.  Wolf Run, a subsidiary of Scott Depot, West Virginia-based
International, breached a coal supply contract with Allegheny
Energy Supply and Monongahela Power Company when it declared
force majeure and temporarily idled a mine in the third quarter
of 2006, a trial court ruled.  International said that it has enough cash on hand and
credit to appeal the case and that it doesn’t expect the ruling
to derail the merger with Arch, to be completed by June 30.  “I don’t think a $100 million ruling is going to stop Arch
from going through with a multibillion-dollar merger,” said
Jeremy Sussman, an analyst at Brean Murray & Co. in New York.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  