-- 
Dialed In, Uncle Mo Top Field of 20 to Win $2 Million Kentucky Derby

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-05-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/dialed-in-is-installed-as-4-1-favorite-in-early-odds-to-win-kentucky-derby.html
Dialed In was made the 4-1 favorite
with Uncle Mo close behind at 9-2 in early odds to win the 137th
 Kentucky Derby , the first of thoroughbred racing’s Triple Crown
events.  Dialed In, trained by two-time  Kentucky  Derby winner Nick Zito, will start from the eighth post position in a field of 20
horses at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky, on May 7.  “Most of the major players got good post positions,” Zito
said. “I guess they could have put Uncle Mo at 4-1 and us 9-2,
but they made us the favorite, so that’s OK. I’m flattered by
it, very humbled.”  Todd Pletcher-trained Uncle Mo will run from the 18th post.
Jockey Corey Nakatani will ride 6-1 entry Nehro, trained by
Steve Asmussen, who’s seeking his first Derby win, from the 19th
post. Victory in the $2.1 million race is worth $1.4 million.  “I’m told that, from the 19 hole, there has never been a
winner,” said Nehro’s owner,  Ahmed Zayat . “So I guess this
would have to be a first: a first for Asmussen, a first for
Corey Nakatani, a first for 19 and a first for Zayat.”  Watch Me Go, running from the outside, was made the longest
shot at 50-1 by track handicapper Mike Battaglia. Seven horses
were given 30-1 odds.  Shortest Distance  Battaglia said the draw had little effect on his initial
decisions, except for Archarcharch, whose odds were changed to
10-1 from 8-1 after the colt got the No. 1 post position against
the rail on the final draw.  “I have always wanted to be No. 1 but not in the Kentucky
Derby starting gate,” said Archarcharch’s trainer Jinks Fires.
“It’s still the shortest way around and at least I am not out
next to the track kitchen.”  Pletcher, who was 0-24 in the Derby before winning with
Super Saver last year, said he got nervous as he waited for the
No. 1 post position to be drawn. Last year, trainer  Bob Baffert ’s favorite Lookin At Lucky drew the rail and got caught
behind several horses, finishing sixth.  “We were getting frightened. No. 1 was ominously sitting
out there,” Pletcher said. “We had an underlying fear we were
going to get one.”  Pletcher also has Uncle Mo’s stablemate Stay Thirsty in the
Derby, running at 20-1 from the fourth gate.  Baffert’s Midnight Interlude drew the 15th post position
and was given 10-1 odds.  “I’m relieved,” Baffert said. “I wanted to be on the
outside. When you have a lightly raced horse, you want to be
clear. This is the toughest part of the whole Derby -- getting
through the draw.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  