-- 
Dodgers Owner Sends Baseball Executives Letters Pushing TV Deal

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-05-04T21:55:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/dodgers-owner-mccourt-sends-baseball-executives-letters-pushing-tv-deal.html
Los Angeles Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  sent two letters to Major League Baseball today seeking
immediate approval of a long-term TV deal and accusing
Commissioner Bud Selig of a “conscious decision to put the
Dodgers in this state of distress.”  McCourt said in an April 27 news conference in  New York 
that a proposed 17-year TV deal with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports was
being blocked by Selig. Baseball officials responded that Selig
hasn’t vetoed the proposed deal with Fox, and that McCourt was
told a decision awaited completion of a probe into the team’s
finances.  McCourt said at the news conference last week that he is
weighing whether to sue MLB.  “The commissioner’s continued delay and his conscious
decision to put the Dodgers in this state of distress and make
it a matter of public discussion is harming Mr. McCourt and the
Dodgers,” according to one of the letters, which were reviewed
by Bloomberg News. “Mr. McCourt reiterates his request that the
commissioner immediately approve the Fox transaction.”  The letters, from Robert A. Sacks of the law firm  Sullivan
& Cromwell , were addressed to Bradley I. Ruskin of the Proskauer
Rose LLP firm that is representing MLB.  Major League Baseball spokesman Pat Courtney didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  The Los Angeles Times reported yesterday that the Dodgers
lack the cash to meet their end of May payroll. The newspaper
said it based its report on information from two people familiar
with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity.  “The press is now discussing the Dodgers’ ability to make
its payroll at the end of May,” the letter said. “There would
be no issue whatsoever about that issue -- or any other issue
involving the Dodgers’ financial strength and viability -- had
the commissioner timely acted on Mr. McCourt’s request for
approval of the Fox transaction or were he to approve it now.”  MLB took over management of the team on April 20 because of
what Selig called “my deep concerns regarding the finances and
operations of the Dodgers.” Former Texas Rangers President Tom Schieffer was appointed on April 25 as MLB’s monitor of the
Dodgers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  