-- 
Dunkin’ Brands Files IPO for as Much as $400 Million

-- B y   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-05-04T15:09:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/dunkin-brands-files-for-an-initial-public-offering-of-up-to-400-million.html
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc., operator of
the  Dunkin’ Donuts  coffee chain, filed to raise as much as $400
million in an initial public offering to pay down debt.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Barclays Capital  and Morgan Stanley
will serve as underwriters, according to a regulatory filing.
Dunkin’ didn’t disclose the pricing per share or an offering
date. The stock will be listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
new ticker will be DNKN.  Dunkin’ was taken private five years ago by private equity
firms Bain Capital LLC,  Carlyle Group  and Thomas H. Lee Partners
LP in a deal valued at $2.43 billion. The chain has picked a
good time for an IPO as consumers are feeling more confident and
spending more money eating out, said  Jack Russo , an analyst at
Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis .  “The food-service environment in general has improved over
the last six to nine months,” Russo said. Dunkin’ “has had
success historically -- the name brand is there, the food
quality is there.”  Dunkin’, which is based in Canton,  Massachusetts , is also
seeking to enter the growing single-cup coffee business by
partnering with  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  to make K-
Cups for Green Mountain’s Keurig brewing machine. The single-
serving packets will start selling this year, the companies said
in a statement on Feb. 22.  Bain, Carlyle and Thomas H. Lee each own more than 5
percent of the company’s stock, according to the filing.  Baskin-Robbins  Dunkin’ has more than 16,000 locations in 57 countries
under the Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-Robbins brands. The donuts
brand was created in the 1940s when Bill Rosenberg founded his
first restaurant, which was later renamed Dunkin’ Donuts.  Sales at Dunkin’ Brands increased 7.2 percent to $577.1
million in the year ended Dec. 25, according to the filing. Net
income fell 23 percent to $26.9 million in the same period.  Dunkin’ is “very East Coast centric,” said Peter Saleh, a
restaurant analyst at Telsey Advisory Group LLC in  New York . “I
suspect they want to expand their base from the Northeast to a
little further south and spread out across the country.”  There have been 69 U.S. IPOs this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The largest was HCA Holdings Inc., a
Nashville, Tennessee-based hospital chain, which raised $3.79
billion in March excluding an overallotment option.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  