-- 
Technology Contractors May Face Job Cuts at Some U.S. Agencies

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-05-04T18:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/technology-contractors-may-face-job-cuts-at-some-u-s-agencies.html
Flat budgets will mean most federal
chief information officers will maintain the number of
contracting jobs in their agencies, according to a survey
released today.  The officials in charge of buying and managing  information
technology  for the U.S. government said they don’t expect their
technology budgets to increase for the fiscal year beginning
Oct. 1, 2011, and most said they didn’t plan to hire staff or
additional contractors for a few years, according to a survey
conducted by  TechAmerica , a technology industry association
based in  Washington .  The biggest barrier to managing technology at their
agencies is funding, leading some CIOs to say they plan to cut
contracting jobs in fiscal 2012, according to the survey. CIOs
did not say how many jobs would be reduced.  Most technology chiefs said they feel they do not have
flexibility to pursue different ways to purchase information
technology and don’t think their departments are prepared to
respond quickly to a reduction in spending, according to the
report.  “With budget cuts comes competition for resources, causing
more conflicting priorities among program units,” the report
said. CIOs said they have too many daily demands, including
directives from the White House Office of Management and Budget
and Congress, to plan strategically.  Cybersecurity also was a top concern for CIOs, who said
they don’t have the resources to follow cybersecurity guidance
issued by the Obama administration.  Cloud Computing  The officials interviewed also had a favorable view of the
White House’s initiatives to consolidate federal data centers
and shift government systems to cloud computing, which operate
shared pools of computing resources including servers and data
storage.  Companies such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  have won government cloud
contracts.  CIOs said the initiatives face cultural resistance in their
agencies. A reduction in data centers creates “fears of job
loss” and the loss of “control over valuable IT resources,”
the report said. The administration’s push to move services to
the cloud, is being met with hesitation because many CIOs are
concerned their data will not be secure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  