-- 
Legal & General Quarterly Sales Climbed 12% on Demand for Savings Products

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-05-04T08:02:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/legal-general-quarterly-sales-climbed-12-on-demand-for-savings-products.html
Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the U.K.’s
fourth-biggest insurer by market value, said first-quarter
revenue missed analysts’ estimates, hurt by lower annuity sales.  Revenue climbed 12 percent to 433 million pounds ($713
million) in the three months ended March 31, the London-based
firm said in a statement today, missing the 442 million-pound
average estimate of six analysts surveyed by the insurer.  “Overall a decent set of figures, showing cash generation
ahead of target and growth in savings and international, albeit
with some weakness in U.K. bulk annuities,”  Marcus Barnard , a
London-based analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. with a “buy”
rating on the stock, wrote in a note to clients today.  Legal & General is trying to boost revenue as the U.K.’s
aging population tries to save more for retirement and the
government reduces welfare payments, Chief Executive Officer Tim Breedon said in March. The insurer is focusing on selling
products with wider margins such as annuities and cutting
commissions to sales advisers.  Sales of risk products, which include annuities, dropped 14
percent to 72 million pounds. Annuity sales last year was a
“difficult comparative” because of a one-time boost from the
government raising the legal  retirement age , Chief Financial
Officer Nigel Wilson said on a call with reporters.  The amount of cash Legal & General generated, which it can
then use to reinvest in new business and pay dividends, climbed
18 percent to 212 million pounds and is ahead of the company’s
own target of 700 million pounds for the year, it said. Revenue
from savings grew 20 percent to 320 million pounds.  The shares declined 2.3 percent to 120.9 pence in at 8:25
a.m. in London, giving a market value of 7.1 billion pounds. The
stock has risen 25 percent since the beginning of the year,
beating the  FTSE ASX Life Insurance (FALIFE)  Index’s 17 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  