-- 
Einstein’s Theory of Relativity Proven Right by Stanford-NASA Space Probe

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-05-04T19:51:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/einstein-s-theory-of-relativity-proven-right-by-stanford-nasa-space-probe.html
A U.S. space probe carrying four
gyroscopes has confirmed two key elements of Albert Einstein’s
theory of relativity about 95 years after he postulated it and
56 years after he died.  Gravity Probe B , built by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and
designed by scientists from Stanford University near Palo Alto,
 California , measured how space and time are warped by
gravitational bodies, a phenomenon called the  geodetic effect .
The probe launched in 2004 also analyzed frame-dragging, the way
spinning objects pull space and time around them.  The effects were demonstrated by having Gravity Probe B
point at a star,  IM Pegasi , while orbiting Earth. If gravity
didn’t affect space and time, the gyroscopes aboard the probe
would point in the same direction forever during their orbit, as
Isaac Newton had theorized. Instead, they showed tiny,
measurable changes in the direction of their spin as Earth’s
gravity tugged at them, as Einstein had predicted.  “Imagine the Earth as if it were immersed in honey,”
Stanford physicist  Francis Everitt , who led the project funded
by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, said in a
 statement . “As the planet rotates, the honey around it would
swirl, and it’s the same with space and time.”  The project was one of the longest-running efforts in the
U.S. space agency’s history, beginning in 1963, and cost about
$750 million,  NASA  spokesman Trent Perrotto said today in a
telephone interview. The findings were the culmination of 49
years of work by Everitt, who came to Stanford in 1962 to help
build the most precise gyroscope ever designed and produced,
according to NASA.  “The mission results will have a long-term impact on the
work of theoretical physicists,” said Bill Danchi, senior
astrophysicist and program scientist at NASA Headquarters in
 Washington , in a statement. “Every future challenge to
Einstein’s theories of general relativity will have to seek more
precise measurements than the remarkable work Gravity Probe B
accomplished.”  The findings were published today in the journal  Physical
Review Letters . Lockheed Martin is based in Bethesda,  Maryland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 