-- 
Electronic Arts Profit Tops Analyst’s Views After ‘Dead Space’ Lifts Sales

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-05-04T21:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/electronic-arts-fourth-quarter-profit-tops-analyst-s-views-1-.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , the second-
largest U.S. video-game producer, posted a fivefold gain in
fourth-quarter profit, after the shooting title “Dead Space 2”
helped sales surpass analysts’ estimates.  Net income rose to $151 million, or 45 cents a share, from
$30 million, or 9 cents, a year ago,  Redwood City , California-
based Electronic Arts said in a statement today. Profit minus
some items totaled 25 cents, beating the 22-cent estimate of 22
analysts.  Shares of Electronic Arts are up 22 percent this year on
investor expectations for the multiplayer online offering “Star
Wars: The Old Republic,” which the company said will be
released in the second half of this year. The game will compete
with  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ’s “World of Warcraft.”  “‘Star Wars’ is a massive swing factor to fiscal 2012
results -- the earlier the release, the better,” Evan Wilson, a
Pacific Crest Securities analyst, wrote in a May 2 note. “We
still think it is setting up as a good title.”  The game could be released as early as July, Eric Brown,
chief financial officer, said in an interview. The company “has
a very good idea what the actual date is” and is promising
delivery only before December for competitive reasons, he said.  First-Quarter Sales  Fiscal first-quarter sales, excluding items such as changes
in deferred revenue, will be $460 million to $500 million,
compared with analysts’ estimates of $513 million. Excluding
items, Electronic Arts expects to report a loss of 44 cents to
49 cents a share, compared with analysts projections for a 37-
cent loss, the average of 16 estimates.  Sales in the fourth quarter ended March 31, also excluding
changes in deferred revenue, totaled $995 million, exceeding
analysts’ estimates of $923.5 million.  Chief Executive Officer John Riccitiello has said “ Star
Wars ” will become profitable after reaching 500,000 subscribers
and “substantially profitable” at 1 million.  The game could add $162 million in revenue at 1 million
subscribers, with an operating profit of $26 million, said  Doug Creutz , an analyst with Cowen & Co. who has a “neutral” rating
on the shares, in a research note April 26. Revenue would
double, with operating profit tripling, at 2 million paying
subscribers, he estimates.  The company yesterday announced plans to buy Firemint, a
60-person Australia-based studio that makes games for Apple’s
iOS devices, for an undisclosed sum.  Digital Sales  Sales of games sold digitally were up 46 percent for the
year, Brown said. The company expects its digital business to
top $1 billion in the current fiscal year, joining Tencent
Holdings and Activision Blizzard as one of the few companies
around the world to reach that figure, he said.  Electronic Arts this year faces the potential for lost
sales with its core “Madden NFL” football game if a labor
dispute drags into the new season. The company also faces
difficult comparisons to a year ago, when FIFA’s World Cup
boosted interest in its game.  Electronic Arts rose 56 cents to $20.48 at 5:38 p.m. New
York time in extended trading after results were announced. The
shares declined 24 cents to $19.92 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  