-- 
Emerging Stocks Drop as China, Brazil Signal Tightening to Fight Inflation

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-05-04T22:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/emerging-stocks-drop-as-china-brazil-signal-tightening-to-fight-inflation.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, prompting
the benchmark index’s biggest two-day drop in almost three
months, as  China  and  Brazil ’s central banks signaled further
tightening to contain inflation. Commodity prices declined,
pressuring producer shares.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 1.3 percent to
1,170.93 as of 4 p.m. in New York. The gauge has slid 3 percent
in two days, the most since Feb. 10. China’s Shanghai Composite
Index sank 2.3 percent while  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 0.9
percent.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index slid 0.4
percent, dropping for an eighth day in the longest losing streak
since May 2002, as the central bank yesterday boosted rates more
than forecast.  “China’s imminent interest rate increases and lower
commodity prices are giving investors a good excuse to take some
money off the table,” said Mike Raz, who helps manage about $1.5
billion at Manila-based Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. “Rising
 interest rates  and falling commodity prices are stoking fears of
an economic slowdown.”  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 2 percent, its sixth decline
in seven trading days as Brent oil dropped 1.4 percent to
$120.72 a barrel. Hungary’s BUX Index fell 0.6 percent and
 Peru ’s Lima General Index increased 6.1 percent after a poll
showed  Ollanta Humala , a one-time ally of Venezuelan President
 Hugo Chavez , and Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori running nearly
even. Humala won the first round of voting; the election is June
5.  Bovespa Falls  Brazil’s Bovespa index fell 1.1 percent, its fifth decline
in six days, as a drop in commodity prices offset an increase in
first-quarter profits. Iron-ore miner Vale SA fell to the lowest
in more than seven months while Brazilian steelmaker Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA reported a 38 percent rise in first-
quarter profit.  Peru’s sol strengthened 0.3 percent against the dollar
while the real weakened 1.8 percent and the peso depreciated 0.6
percent.  The MSCI emerging market index has risen 1.7 percent this
year, lagging behind the 7 percent gain in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index,
as rising food prices and energy costs threaten growth.
Brazilian central bank President Alexandre Tombini said he would
increase interest rates for as long as needed to tame inflation.
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts rose in
response.  Cut Lending  China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest developer, fell 0.9
percent in Shenzhen, while China Citic Bank Corp. lost 2.9
percent in  Hong Kong  after Shi Yuan, the head of its risk
management department, said on a conference call the lender aims
to cut new real estate lending this year by at least one third
from last year as risks in the sector have increased.  Bajaj Auto
Ltd. (BJAUT) , India’s second-largest motorcycle maker, fell 4.7 percent
to the lowest level since Feb. 28.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  will increase its benchmark
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.5 percent tomorrow,
according to 12 of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Stabilizing prices and managing inflation expectations are
critical,” the People’s Bank of China said in a first-quarter
monetary policy report published yesterday. Bank reserve
requirements have no “absolute ceiling,” the report said,
restating Governor Zhou Xiaochuan’s comment on April 16.  China Securities Journal said the central bank will raise
lenders’ reserve requirements this month and Shanghai Securities
News reported China will extend limits on property purchases.  India Stocks  Stocks extended declines in India after Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao indicated he would tighten borrowing costs further and
predicted inflation will stay at “elevated levels” until
September.  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the largest maker of sport-
utility vehicles and tractors, slipped 0.6 percent.  In Taipei, Chimei Innolux,  Taiwan ’s largest LCD maker, fell
2.4 percent to the lowest in more than two years. The company
posted a first-quarter net loss of NT$13.8 billion ($483
million) as prices failed to rebound and production problems
delayed output of advanced panels. The average estimate of nine
analysts compiled by Bloomberg was for a net loss of NT$9.7
billion.  Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest copper producer, fell
1.9 percent in Hong Kong and  Philex Mining Corp. (PX) , the biggest
Philippine metals producer, sank 3.3 percent, the sharpest loss
since Feb. 28.  Copper for July delivery dropped 2.8 percent to close at
$4.134 a pound on the Comex in  New York , the biggest drop since
March 9. Crude oil for June delivery declined 1.6 percent to
$109.24 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , falling
for a third day, after the U.S. Energy Department reported that
inventories advanced for the eighth time in nine weeks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  