-- 
Employers in U.S. Announced 4.8% Fewer Job Cuts in April, Challenger Says

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-05-04T11:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/employers-in-u-s-announced-4-8-fewer-job-cuts-in-april-challenger-says.html
U.S. employers announced fewer job
cuts in April than the same month last year, a sign that the
labor market is firming.  Planned firings decreased 4.8 percent to 36,490 last month
from April 2010, according to a report today from Chicago-based
Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. Government agencies accounted
for the biggest cutbacks by industry.  “The slow pace of downsizing suggests employers remain
optimistic about business conditions going forward,”  John Challenger , the outplacement company’s chief executive officer,
said in a statement. “The weak link in the job market right now
is the government sector, which continues to shed employees at a
heavy rate.”  Dismissals of state and local public workers may contribute
to a slowdown in  consumer spending , which accounts for 70
percent of the world’s largest economy. The highest gasoline
prices in almost three years may also weigh on household
purchases on less-essential items.  Compared with last month, job-cut announcements fell 12
percent. Because the figures aren’t adjusted for seasonal
effects, economists prefer to focus on year-over-year changes
rather than monthly numbers.  Government and nonprofit organizations announced 10,731 job
cuts, compared with 19,099 the previous month, according to
Challenger. So far this year, governments have planned 52,660
reductions. Aerospace and defense companies were second last
month with 4,514 planned cuts.  California  California led all states with 4,746 announced job cuts,
followed by  New Jersey  with 4,526.  Today’s report also showed that employers announced plans
in April to hire 59,648 workers after 10,869 workers the prior
month. McDonald’s Corp. accounted for the bulk of the hiring
last month after it announced a plan to add 50,000 employees,
Challenger said.  Employers in the U.S. hired about 185,000 workers last
month, and the  unemployment rate  held at 8.8 percent, according
to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
ahead of a May 6 report from the Labor Department.  Challenger’s data do not always correlate with figures on
payrolls or first-time jobless claims as reported by the
government. Many job cuts are carried out through attrition or
early retirement. Some employees whose jobs are eliminated find
work elsewhere in their companies and many announced staff
reductions never take place because business improves. The
totals also include foreign affiliates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  