-- 
Lenzing Wins Renewal of EU Duty on Furfuraldehyde From China

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-05-04T15:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/lenzing-wins-renewal-of-eu-duty-on-furfuraldehyde-from-china.html
The European Union renewed a 16-year-
old tariff on a chemical substance from  China  used to make
lubricating oils and foundry molds in a bid to help EU producers
including  Austria ’s  Lenzing AG (LNZ)  compete with cheaper imports.  The EU re-imposed the duty on furfuraldehyde for five years
to punish Chinese exporters for allegedly selling it in  Europe 
below cost, a practice known as  dumping . The levy of 352 euros
($524) a metric ton aims to prevent “injury” to EU producers
that also include Slovenia-based  Tanin Sevnica dd .  “A repeal of measures would in all likelihood lead to a
recurrence of injury resulting from the dumped imports,” the
27-nation EU said in a decision today in Brussels. The renewal
will take effect after being published in the EU  Official
Journal  in the coming days. In a separate step, the bloc said it
would review whether the duty rate is still appropriate.  Lenzing and Tanin Sevnica, which together account for more
than half the EU’s production of furfuraldehyde, asked in
January 2010 for longer trade protection. Three months later,
the EU opened a probe that led to today’s verdict.  Furfuraldehyde, which comes from agricultural waste, is
used as a selective solvent in petroleum refining for the
production of lubricating oils and as a raw material for
processing into furfuryl alcohol, used to make synthetic resin
for foundry molds.  China’s share of the EU furfuraldehyde market fell to 7
percent in the 12 months through March 2010 from 17 percent in
2007, according to today’s decision. The  Dominican Republic  has
the biggest EU market share at 71 percent as a result of
shipments from a parent company to its European subsidiary to
produce furfuryl alcohol, the bloc said.  The EU introduced the duty against China in January 1995,
reimposed the levy for four years in December 1999, kept it in
place after December 2003 while conducting a review of the
expiration and then prolonged the measure for five years in
 April 2005 . The duty stayed in place during the probe over the
past year into whether to renew the measure again.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  