-- 
Leon Black Winning Confidence in Realogy, Harrah’s, Swaps Show

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-05-04T21:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/leon-black-winning-confidence-in-realogy-harrah-s-default-swaps-show.html
Debt investors are gaining confidence
in  Leon Black ’s Realogy Corp. and Caesars Entertainment Corp.,
formerly Harrah’s, credit-default swaps show.  Contracts protecting against a default by Caesars fell 1.9
percentage points to 14.8 percent upfront, according to data
provider CMA. The company is seeking to push back loan due
dates, it said in a regulatory filing. Swaps on Realogy, the
biggest housing broker in the U.S., fell 0.8 percentage point to
13.7 percent upfront after the company reported higher first-
quarter earnings excluding certain items.  “We continue to be encouraged that the existing home
market is following a course of modest but steady improvement,”
Anthony Hull, chief financial officer, said in a teleconference.  Companies purchased through the biggest leveraged buyouts
are seeing borrowing costs tumble to about the lowest since
2007, the same year Black’s Apollo Management LP bought Realogy.
They’re being driven down as the  Federal Reserve  holds benchmark
 interest rates  near zero.  Apollo acquired Realogy in April 2007 in a $6.9 billion
transaction and took Caesars private with  David Bonderman ’s TPG
Capital for $30.7 billion, including debt and transaction costs,
in January 2008.  Realogy, which sold $700 million of senior secured notes
this year, reported earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization today that climbed to $25 million, up 14
percent from last year. The broker may benefit from an improving
job market, falling  home prices  and low  mortgage rates  that
attract home buyers.  Caesars Loans  Caesars is seeking to amend its senior secured credit
agreement to extend the maturities by three years in exchange
for higher borrowing costs. Bonds of the Las Vegas-based company
rose in trading to the highest level since February following
the filing of the document.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  An index that measures the cost of protecting corporate
bonds from default in the U.S. climbed for a third day as
employment and  service industries  expanded by less than
economists estimated.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.7 basis point to a
mid-price of 89.7 basis points as of 5:12 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  U.S. Employment Picture  U.S. companies added 179,000 jobs in April, according to
figures from ADP Employer Services. The median estimate in
Bloomberg News survey called for a 198,000 advance this month.
Estimates ranged from increases of 164,000 to 240,000, according
to the Bloomberg survey of 34 economists.  A separate report showed service industries expanded in
April at the slowest pace in eight months as companies cut back
in response to higher energy costs. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s index of non-manufacturing companies declined to
52.8 last month, lower the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, from 57.3 in March. Readings greater
than 50 signal growth.  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has climbed
every day this week to the highest level since April 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  