-- 
Equidity Aims to Find Investors for Lesser-Known Silicon Valley Startups

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-05-04T11:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/equidity-aims-to-help-find-investors-for-lesser-known-startups.html
Mutual fund managers and private
equity funds can easily buy shares in Facebook Inc. and Twitter
Inc. Finding more obscure technology companies to invest in
before their initial public offerings is more of a challenge.  Equidity Inc., a Silicon Valley business that helps
entrepreneurs link up with institutional investors, aims to
change that. The company introduced technology today that
spotlights the hundreds of startups that don’t have the
recognition of Facebook, Groupon Inc. or Twitter.  “There are another 200 companies below them, many making
over $100 million in revenue, and yet they’re invisible,” Chief
Executive Officer Mona DeFrawi told Bloomberg Businessweek.com.
“We’re helping them connect to public buyers.”  The idea is to showcase companies that may be too big to
attract venture capitalists yet aren’t well known enough to be
traded on private exchanges like  SecondMarket Inc.  and
SharesPost Inc. Institutional investors such as T. Rowe Price
Group Inc. and Fidelity Investments are eager to find these
businesses, which often aren’t consumer-focused dot-coms. About
two dozen firms with more than $1 trillion in total assets under
management have already signed up for the service, DeFrawi said.  Equidity, based in Woodside,  California , is letting
companies provide whatever level of financial information they
want. Based on that data, institutional investors can determine
valuations. Private companies aren’t required to disclose
financial data, so buyers in the secondary market are often left
guessing about their worth.  Equidity also is hosting forums to connect startups with
investors. The first will be held in November in  Menlo Park ,
California, where 50 of the “hottest late-stage and up-and-
coming companies” can have one-on-one meetings with investors,
the company said. Equidity aims to make money from sponsorships,
a pre-IPO advisory business and eventually from events.  DeFrawi, who sold her previous company to New York-based
SecondMarket in 2009, is one of four co-founders of Equidity.
The company has received a small round of venture funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  