-- 
Merck Serono to Pay $44.3 Million to Settle False-Claims Suit Over Rebif

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-04T18:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/merck-kgaa-units-pay-44-million-to-settle-false-claims-suit-1-.html
Merck KGaA (MRK)  units agreed to pay
$44.3 million to settle allegations the company submitted false
claims to U.S. health-care programs because doctors were paid to
prescribe its multiple sclerosis drug Rebif, the U.S. said.  The government accused Merck KGaA’s Serono Laboratories
Inc. and EMD Serono Inc. of making payments to health-care
providers for hundreds of meetings and programs at upscale
resorts where Rebif was promoted. The settlement was filed in a
whistleblower lawsuit in federal court in Greenbelt, Maryland,
and made public today.  Serono’s actions resulted in the submission of false claims
to programs including Medicare and Medicaid for the payment of
Rebif because the claims were tainted by kickbacks, the  Justice
Department  said in an e-mailed statement.  “Health care decisions must be based solely upon what is
best for the individual patient and not on which pharmaceutical
company is paying the doctor the biggest kickback,” U.S.
Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein in  Maryland  said in the statement.  Serono denies the allegations and doesn’t admit any
liability, according to the settlement. Merck KGaA, based in
Darmstadt,  Germany , acquired Swiss drugmaker Serono SA in 2007
for $17.9 billion.  Under the agreement, the federal government will receive
$34.6 million while various states will split $9.7 million.  Timothy Amato, a former business director for Serono who
filed the whistleblower case in 2005, will receive about
$5.2 million, according to a copy of the settlement agreement.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Tim Amato v. Serano Laboratories
Inc., 05-cv-03457, U.S. District Court, District of Maryland
(Greenbelt).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 