-- 
Bin Laden Takedown Makes Case for Anti-Trump: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-05-04T23:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/terror-takedown-makes-case-for-anti-trump-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
In announcing the death of  Osama bin Laden , President  Barack Obama  understandably left out the part
about how the military operation had also done away with Donald Trump’s presidential candidacy, making room for serious
candidates to compete.  Trump doesn’t know it’s over, of course. But the rest of us
should. It can take something as weighty as the killing of the
world’s most-wanted terrorist to remember that politics isn’t a
sport, no matter the metaphors and hot air that passes for news
on  cable television . Trump was playing the presidential race as
a reality show, and we let him. Harmless and mostly ignored
during his previous brushes with political campaigning, he cried
wolf louder this time to get the attention he believes he
deserves.  How unsuited Trump is to the White House. A successful
president has to glide like a duck through his public schedule
while paddling furiously beneath the surface to deal with the
non-public crises that make up a chief executive’s life.  Over the course of the meetings with his national security
team deciding whether to send commandos into the fortified
compound in  Pakistan  suspected of housing bin Laden, the
president was dealing with a possible government shutdown, the
federal budget, a trip to  Latin America , fresh military action
in  Libya  and the deadliest tornadoes to hit the U.S. in almost
40 years. Thanks to Trump, that full agenda also included
weighing whether pressing for release of his long-form birth
certificate by Hawaii officials would halt the malignant
“birther” movement.  Better Stuff  How much more pertinent Obama’s birth-certificate press
conference now seems. The president, noting how he can’t usually
get live network coverage for more pressing matters, said of the
false controversy, “We’ve got better stuff to do. I’ve got
better stuff to do. We’ve got big problems to solve.” As we now
know, this was less than a week before the raid was carried out.  The end of Trump began less than 24 hours before the
takedown of Osama. At the White House Correspondents’
Association’s annual dinner on Saturday night, Trump was reduced
to a laugh line, both by Obama and by the featured speaker,
comedian Seth Meyers. “ Donald Trump  has been saying he would
run for president as a Republican,” Meyers said, “which is
surprising since I just assumed he was running as a joke.”  With much of the country’s attention soaked up by the
blowhard from Queens, the quieter presidential prospects --
that’s all of them -- have had a hard time being heard.  Indiana ’s Adult  One of those, Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels, is the anti-
Trump. He’s that mythical “adult” Washington Republicans  keep 
talking  about . Often described as a policy-and-numbers guy
without much charisma, he’s a solid public servant with a sunny
but modest disposition who’s kept Indiana solvent while other
states are going broke. He’s mostly done this without embracing
his party’s reverse-Robin-Hood ethic.  Asked during lunch with Bloomberg News editors on Tuesday
why he might run, Daniels gave a characteristically small
answer: “I believe the country’s at a very perilous point,
arithmetically.”  Not the type to dump on his fellow Republicans, he
nonetheless wrote off everyone currently considering a
presidential run, saying he doesn’t see anyone who’s up to the
task. Now that his close friend and fellow governor  Haley Barbour  has dropped out, he sounds like a candidate about to
jump in -- if he can get his reluctant wife and daughters to
agree. Seriousness may have its day.  National Insecurity  We’re attracted to flamboyant characters when we feel
insecure. Even after invading  Afghanistan  and  Iraq  and putting
ourselves into perilous debt to pursue a global war on terror,
Americans had to wait a decade to avenge the awful wrong done on
9/11.  As a crowd gathered outside the White House gates to chant
“USA! USA!” and sing the national anthem, the world was right 
again, if only for a time, as well as a less-hospitable place
for those who would reduce our politics to a sideshow.  Trump does deserve some credit for serving the Republican
establishment’s desire to stop the soap opera-worthy candidacy
of Sarah Palin. As he rose, she sank, to 10 percent among
Republicans in a recent Gallup poll. There was room for only one
bizarro candidate in the race at a time. Now there’s room for
none.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  