-- 
Tesla Posts Smaller Loss Than Estimated on Development Work

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-05-04T23:28:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/tesla-posts-smaller-loss-than-estimated-on-development-work-1-.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  posted a first-
quarter net loss that was narrower than analysts estimated as
the electric carmaker boosted revenue from battery packs and
development work with partners  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Excluding some items, the loss was 44 cents a share,  Palo
Alto , California-based Tesla said today in a statement. The
average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was
for a 51-cent loss. The net loss widened to $48.9 million from
$29.5 million a year earlier, before Tesla sold shares to the
public. Sales more than doubled to $49 million.  Tesla, the maker of $109,000 rechargeable Roadster sports
cars, aims to become a global leader in battery-powered
vehicles, aided by the supply agreements with Toyota and
Daimler. The company, led by  Elon Musk , its biggest investor, is
readying a former Toyota joint-venture factory in  California  for
production of $57,400 Model S electric sedans in mid-2012.  “The continued performance of our Roadster business and
growing contributions from our component supply and development
programs for the Daimler Smart fortwo, Daimler A-Class and
Toyota RAV4 EV produced quarterly revenue more than double of
that achieved in the same quarter of last year,” Musk said in
the statement.  Revenue from development services surged to $15.4 million
from $227,000 a year earlier, and the company raised its outlook
for annual sales.  “We now project that full-year revenue will be between
$170 to $185 million, up from our previous guidance of $160 to
$175 million,” Deepak Ahuja, Tesla’s chief financial officer,
said today on a conference call.  Model S  Preparations for the start of Model S production will
accelerate in 2011’s remaining three quarters as Tesla increases
 capital spending  for the Fremont, California, factory and
engineering work on the car, Ahuja said. Capital expenditures
will be as much as $215 million for the rest of year, he said.  The company has more than 4,600 orders for the Model S,
which requires a $5,000 deposit, Musk said. That’s an increase
of 1,300 since the start of the year. North American sales of
the Roadster will end in the fourth quarter, he said.  While the company is considering raising additional funds
to develop the electric Model X sport-utility vehicle, likely
through a secondary offering of shares, it hasn’t set a
timetable for that, Ahuja said.  Tesla hasn’t had major supply disruptions as a result of
the earthquake and tsunami that struck  Japan  in March, Musk
said. The company gets lithium-ion cells and other electronic
components from Japanese companies including  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,
which owns a 1.5 percent stake in Tesla.  There were only “a few hiccups here and there for about a
week,” he said on the call, without elaborating.  Tesla rose $1.01, or 3.8 percent, to $27.70 at 6:36 p.m.
New York time in late trading, after the company reported
results. The shares were little changed this year through the
close of today’s regular Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  