-- 
Estonian Central Bank Governor Lipstok Nominates New Deputies

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-05-04T14:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/estonian-central-bank-governor-lipstok-nominates-new-deputies.html
Estonian central bank Governor  Andres Lipstok  has proposed two candidates to replace Deputy Governors
Marten Ross and Rein Minka after the bank’s supervisory board
rejected them due to a lack of international credentials.  The board will discuss the nomination of Madis Muller, a
 fund manager  at the International Finance Corp., and Ulo Kaasik,
head of the central bank’s policy department, at a meeting from
9 a.m. Friday, Chairman Jaan Mannik said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The supervisory board, consisting of seven members plus
Mannik, last Tuesday rejected Ross and Minka in a secret vote
that wasn’t unanimous. Mannik said on Apr. 27 he would prefer
nominees with “significant international experience.”  Governor Andres Lipstok, whose term ends in June 2012,
became a voting member of the European Central Bank council when
 Estonia  adopted the euro on Jan. 1. Ross and Minka joined the
central bank in 1992, shortly after Estonia regained its
independence from the  Soviet Union , and have been deputy
governors since 2000.  Ross was “instrumental” in helping Estonia meet the
qualifications for joining the euro, Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip 
said last week, criticizing the way Ross and Minka were rejected
as “improper treatment.” Minka, in charge of coordinating the
transition to the euro from the kroon, was responsible for a
flawless changeover, he said then.  Hardo Pajula, a Tallinn-based economist with SEB AB, the
second-biggest bank in the Baltic states, said last week Ross’s
rejection was surprising as he has been considered a key person
in setting central bank policies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  