-- 
EU Considers Renewed Passport Checks Amid African Refugee Wave

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-05-04T12:32:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/eu-considers-renewed-passport-checks-amid-african-refugee-wave.html
The European Union may reintroduce
passport checks at its internal borders under plans triggered by
 France ’s concerns about an influx of North African migrants
through  Italy .  The  European Commission  said it would consider allowing
controls in the Schengen area, a no-passport zone that comprises
most EU nations, including Italy and France. Schengen members
already face a push by the commission, the 27-nation EU’s
regulatory arm, to improve their external-border controls.  “To safeguard the stability of the Schengen area, it may
also be necessary to foresee the temporary re-introduction of
limited internal border controls under very exceptional
circumstances, such as where a part of the external border comes
under heavy unexpected pressure,” EU Home Affairs Commissioner
Cecilia Malmstroem told reporters today in Brussels. The
commission plans to hold consultations in coming weeks before
making any proposal.  The EU’s commitment to passport-free travel as a way of
fostering unity is being tested by national divergences over how
to handle the arrival of migrants from outside  Europe . Last
month, the Italian government decided to grant North African
migrants temporary permits to travel to other EU nations and the
French government sent some migrants back to Italy or their home
countries.  African Unrest  More than 25,000 migrants have arrived in Italy from North
Africa this year, prompting the Italian government to establish
temporary camps across the country. Most of the arrivals are
from Tunisia and  Libya , where popular unrest led to the ouster
of Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and threatens the
regime of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  In late April, Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said they would work to
overhaul the Schengen system. Both leaders are part of the
 European People’s Party , whose Socialist opponents today accused
the commission of “caving in” to French and Italian demands.  The Party of European Socialists said it “deplores the
attempt by the conservatives to dismantle the Schengen
agreement.” The party said changing the accord “would attack
the foundation of the European Union itself.”  Malmstroem called Schengen a “fantastic achievement” and
pledged to defend the system while saying it can be improved.  “Schengen is based on confidence,” she said. “If there
are weaknesses, they need to be sorted out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  