-- 
EU Carbon Emissions Permits Plan May ‘Kill Off’ Polish Companies

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-05-04T13:32:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/eu-carbon-permits-plan-may-kill-off-coal-dependent-companies-in-poland.html
European Union regulations that will
allocate free carbon-dioxide permits to companies in the next
phase of the world’s biggest emissions trading system may “kill
off” Polish coal-dependent companies, an official said.  The methodology chosen by the European Commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, is illegal and discriminates against coal-based
energy production, said Zbigniew Kamienski, deputy director at
the economic development department of  Poland ’s  Economy
Ministry . Poland may sue the commission over the plan, he said.  The commission last week adopted 52  carbon efficiency
benchmarks  for distributing a dwindling supply of free emissions
allowances to companies from 2013 to 2020.  “The regulation threatens to kill off even the most modern
and energy-efficient companies in Poland simply because the
energy they use is based on coal,” Kamienski said by telephone
from Warsaw today. “The method employed by the commission
violates the basic European principle of proportionality. It’s
taking a sledgehammer to crack a nut.”  The EU emissions trading system is the cornerstone of the
bloc’s policy to cut  greenhouse gases  blamed for  climate change .
Started in 2005, it imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000
utilities and manufacturers, allowing those that emit less than
their quota to sell surplus permits. One permit gives the right
to discharge one metric ton of carbon dioxide.  While the EU has given away the majority of emissions
permits since the program began, it will sell the majority of
them in the next phase. The allocation of free allowances will
be done through benchmarks based on the average performance of
the top 10 percent of installations in 2007 and 2008.  ‘Get Rid of Coal’  The most efficient installations in a given industry won’t
need to purchase more allowances, while those that emit more
than the benchmarks will need to buy permits.  “The regulation doesn’t take into account energy specifics
in member states,” Kamienski said. “If there are two plants,
one coal-based, modern and efficient, and one old and based on
gas, they’ll both get almost the same number of free permits.
It’s not fair. The message from the commission seems to be let’s
just get rid of coal.”  Poland generates about 95 percent of its energy from coal.  The so-called benchmarking regulation has also come under
fire from steel producers, who claimed it will result in
additional costs to the industry of around 5 billion euros.
Eurofer, whose members include the world’s largest steelmaker
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  and  Germany ’s largest steel producer  ThyssenKrupp
AG (TKA) , said last month it would initiate legal action against the
commission.  ‘Last Resort’  Poland may follow suit, Kamienski said.  “We’ve started the preparations at the ministerial level
to file a case in the  European Court  of Justice, though the
final decision is in the hands of the government,” he said.
“We’ve opposed the commission’s proposal since the very
beginning. We tried to block it in the legislative process and
now the court is our last resort.”  The regulation was adopted in the so-called comitology
procedure, whereby a draft measure must first win majority
backing from national governments’ representatives in the EU
Climate Change Committee for the approval process to continue.
Poland, Cyprus, Romania and  Hungary  voted against the proposal
in December and Lithuania abstained, Kamienski said.  During the ensuing three-month scrutiny period by the
European Parliament and national governments Poland, tried
unsuccessfully to block the measure, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  