-- 
Europe Retail Sales Decline Most in Almost a Year on Oil

-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 
2011-05-04T09:05:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/europe-retail-sales-decline-most-in-almost-a-year-on-oil-1-.html
European retail sales declined the
most in almost a year in March as higher  oil prices  and
government austerity measures curbed  consumer spending .  Sales in the 17-nation euro region fell 1 percent from the
previous month after a revised 0.3 percent increase in February,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
That’s the biggest drop since April 2010 and exceeded the 0.1
percent decline projected by economists, according to the median
of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. March sales dropped
1.7 percent from a year earlier.  Surging energy prices are sapping consumers’ purchasing
power just as stepped-up budget cuts from Greece to Ireland are
damping household spending. A 34 percent surge in oil prices in
the past year has pushed inflation to the fastest since 2008 and
eroded  consumer confidence , which fell for a second straight
month in April.  European retailers have relied on faster-growing economies
to boost sales as government austerity measures undermined
consumer spending at home. Metro AG,  Germany ’s biggest retailer,
yesterday reported a first-quarter net loss of 3 million euros
($4.4 million) on sales that were little changed.  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.4856 at 10:02 a.m. in  London , up 0.2 percent.  Russian Sales  Metro Chief Executive Officer Eckhard Cordes said the
austerity measures in countries including Greece, Spain and
Portugal are “still weighing on our business.” The Dusseldorf,
Germany-based company forecasts “slightly positive business in
western Europe” this year, while “business in eastern  Europe ,
especially in Russia, has picked up,” Cordes said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with Maryam Nemazee.  Expansion in euro-area services industries slowed last
month, while manufacturing growth accelerated, according to data
from  Markit Economics  in London. Among services companies,
“expectations for their activity levels in 12 months’ time
slipped for the second successive month to reach a six-month
low,” Markit said in a report today.  German retail sales declined 2.1 percent in March from
February, when they fell 0.4 percent, today’s Eurostat report
showed. In France, sales dropped 1 percent. Spanish sales fell
1.4 percent, while Ireland saw a 0.6 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  