-- 
European Stocks Tumble for Second Day; Holcim, Vestas Decline

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-05-04T16:03:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/european-stock-index-futures-decline-shares-of-holcim-siemens-may-move.html
European stocks slid for a second day
as companies from  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  to Vestas Wind Systems A/S
reported earnings that missed estimates and a report showed U.S.
service industries expanded at the slowest pace in eight months.  Holcim retreated 4.1 percent after the world’s second-
biggest cement maker posted decreased profit. Vestas tumbled 8
percent after the largest wind-turbine maker reported a first-
quarter loss.  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Rio Tinto  Group led gauges of basic-
resource producers and energy companies to six-week lows as
commodities plunged.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index sank 1.4 percent to 278.52 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge had the biggest monthly
increase so far this year in April as companies from PSA Peugeot
Citroen to Ericsson AB reported earnings that topped analyst
estimates and the  Federal Reserve  maintained its pledge to keep
 interest rates  low for an “extended period.”  “Given how many companies have both come in line or
outperformed earnings expectations, it raises the bar of
expectation and makes it harder for those companies yet to
report to satisfy investors,” said Joshua Raymond, a market
strategist at City Index Ltd. in London. “The weaker equity
session we are seeing is more about profit taking than anything
else” after the recent rally.  Beaten Forecasts  Of the 164 companies in the Stoxx 600 that have reported
earnings since April 11, 95 have beaten analyst forecasts for
per-share profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with 74 percent of U.S. companies in the period.  Stocks in  Europe  extended earlier losses after a report
showed U.S. service industries expanded less than forecast in
April as orders slowed. The Institute for Supply Management’s
index of non-manufacturing companies declined to 52.8 last month
from 57.3 in March. Readings greater than 50 signal growth, and
57.5 was the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. A gauge of new orders dropped by the most since record-
keeping began in 1997.  Employment at U.S. companies increased by 179,000 in April,
according to figures from ADP Employer Services. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was for a
198,000 advance. The data comes two days before the monthly
government payroll report due May 6.  National benchmark indexes fell in all 18 western European
markets. The U.K. FTSE 100 tumbled 1.6 percent and  Germany ’s DAX
slid 1.7 percent. France’s CAC 40 declined 1.3 percent.  Portuguese Bailout  Portugal ’s PSI-20 was the best-performing index, with a 0.2
percent drop, after the nation reached agreement on a European
Union-led bailout that will provide as much as 78 billion euros
($116 billion) in aid and allow more time to reduce the
country’s budget deficit. Portugal in April became the third
country to request EU assistance after Greece and Ireland.  Holcim slid 4.1 percent to 71.90 Swiss francs. The company
reported first-quarter profit that fell short of analysts’
estimates as raw-material costs climbed and governments
postponed infrastructure projects.  Vestas tumbled 8 percent to 163.50 kroner after posting a
first-quarter net loss more than twice as big as the average
analyst estimate.  A measure of oil and gas companies in the Stoxx 600 slid
2.6 percent as crude dropped to a two-week low in  New York  after
a U.S. government report showed supplies surged.  BP, Europe’s second-biggest oil company, declined 2 percent
to 448.7 pence, the lowest price this year. Petroleum Geo-
Services ASA dropped 4.7 percent to 75.65 kroner as the world’s
third-biggest surveyor of oil and natural-gas fields posted a
wider-than-estimated loss.  Rio Retreats  Rio Tinto sank 3.3 percent to 4,152 pence as copper fell on
concern  China , the world’s largest consumer of the metal, may
take more steps to tighten credit.  The People’s Bank of China said stabilizing prices and
managing inflation expectations are “critical,” after policy
makers from India and Brazil yesterday signaled further
tightening is possible. The PBOC said in a first-quarter
monetary report published yesterday that the economy faces
“increasing pressure from imported inflation.”  Fresnillo Plc (FRES) , the world’s largest primary silver producer,
slid 5.2 percent to 1,515 pence as the precious metal headed for
the biggest three-day decline since 2008.  Wincor Nixdorf AG (WIN)  plunged 13 percent to 47.53 euros, the
biggest drop since July 2009. The German maker of banking
machines and cash registers said second-quarter net income fell
8 percent to 24 million euros.  AB InBev, ARM  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  sank 3.3 percent to 41.45 euros
after the world’s biggest brewer reported first-quarter volume
that missed estimates as high unemployment levels in the U.S.
meant consumers drank less beer.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  dropped 7.3 percent to 558 pence after
AppleInsider reported that rival  Intel Corp. (INTC)  may be interested
in making chips for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s mobile devices. ARM is the U.K.
designer of chips that help power Apple’s iPhone.  Actelion Ltd. rallied 6.6 percent to 47.85 francs for its
biggest gain in five months. The Swiss biotechnology company
will appeal a  California  jury verdict awarding Asahi Kasei
Pharma Corp. about $577 million in a dispute over development of
a lung drug.  Asahi Kasei yesterday won $30 million in punitive damages
from three executives of Allschwil, Switzerland-based Actelion,
on top of the $547 million in compensatory damages the state
court jury in  San Mateo , California, last week determined that
the drugmaker must pay. No punitive damages were awarded against
Actelion or three other corporate defendants.  “We reckon Actelion has fair chances of reducing the sum
awarded to Asahi,”  Andrew Weiss , an analyst at Vontobel Holding
AG, wrote in a note to clients today.  Next Plc (NXT)  gained 4.4 percent to 2,319 pence, a one-year
high, as the U.K. clothing retailer increased its full-year
earnings estimate.  Meda AB (MEDAA)  jumped 9.7 percent to 68.20 kronor for the biggest
increase in the Stoxx 600. Sweden’s second-largest health-care
company had first-quarter profit that beat analyst forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  