-- 
Euro Rises Toward 17-Month High Before ECB Meeting; Aussie Dollar Weakens

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-05-05T09:29:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/euro-snaps-decline-versus-yen-on-speculation-ecb-will-signal-higher-rates.html
The euro rose toward a 17-month high
versus the dollar on speculation European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  will signal after a policy meeting today his
intention to raise  interest rates  this year.  The single currency advanced against the greenback for the
11th day in 13 before German data that economists said will show
factory orders rose for a third month, adding to signs European
growth is picking up. Australia’s dollar fell for a fourth day
after the government said retail sales unexpectedly declined in
March. Asian currencies fell amid signs the U.S. economic
recovery is cooling.  “There’s a revived expectation that there’ll be a
continuation of hawkishness” from the ECB, said  Neil Jones ,
head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
in London. “European officials have heightened concern about
inflation, whereas in the  United States  there is very little
concern about inflation. That’s the key differentiating factor
here that’s been pushing the euro higher and the dollar lower.”  The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.4874 as of 10:26 a.m. in
London. It yesterday climbed to $1.4940, the highest level since
December 2009. The single currency fell 0.2 percent to 119.34
yen from 119.55 yen yesterday. The Japanese currency appreciated
0.5 percent to 80.24 per dollar, the strongest since March 18.  Trichet may indicate how fast he’s prepared to raise rates
over the coming months at his news conference at 2.30 p.m. in
Helsinki. Policy makers will today keep the benchmark rate at
1.25 percent, according to all 48 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The ECB will boost the rate by 94 basis points
in the next 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG
index based on swaps.  Focus on Trichet  Europe ’s common currency declined against the dollar after
the central bank’s last policy meeting on April 7, when Trichet
signaled that the bank’s first interest-rate increase in almost
three years wasn’t necessarily the “first of a series.”  “The focus for Thursday is on the ECB meeting and whether
or not Trichet uses the code word ‘vigilant,’” analysts at BNP
Paribas SA including Ray Attrill, a senior currency strategist
in  New York , wrote in a note yesterday. “We expect the ECB to
maintain a hawkish tone, pushing the euro to $1.5050.”  German factory orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and
inflation, likely gained 0.4 percent in March from February when
they rose 2.4 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey ahead of
today’s data.  ‘$1.60 In No Time’  Europe’s currency has risen 1.4 percent over the past month
in a measure of foreign-exchange rates of 10 developed nations,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.
The dollar has weakened 3.6 percent.  “Think how much the euro has gone up in the last month and
if it keeps going at this rate it will be at $1.60 in no time,”
said  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income research at HSBC
Holdings Plc in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On the
Move” with  Francine Lacqua . “The ECB will take things into
account and if the euro is up there at $1.55-$1.60 then perhaps
the tightening will not be as much as we previously thought.”  Japan ’s financial markets were shut today for a national
holiday.  German 10-year yields were above those on similar-maturity
U.S. bonds for a third consecutive day. They rose above Treasury
yields on May 3 for the first time since June 2009. The  U.S.
dollar  declined against most of its major counterparts and the
Dollar Index slipped 0.1 percent to 72.934.  Aussie Falls  Australia ’s dollar fell for a sixth day versus the yen
after the Bureau of Statistics said retail sales fell 0.5
percent in March from February, the first drop in five months.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists was for
a 0.5 percent gain. None predicted a decline.  “These data continue to point to the RBA remaining on
hold,” said David Forrester, a currency economist at  Barclays
Capital  in  Singapore . “At the moment the market is a little
worried about a slowing in global growth so that’s weighing a
bit on the Aussie.”  Australia’s dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.0711, and
declined 0.7 percent to 86.02 yen.  Asian currencies were led lower by Malaysia’s ringgit on
concern U.S. economic growth is cooling after reports yesterday
showed service industries expanded at the slowest pace in eight
months and companies added fewer jobs that economists forecast.  “Global risk sentiment is being driven by recent economic
data that may favor safe-haven currencies in the very short
term,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research
at Malayan Banking Bhd. in Singapore. “Asian  currency markets 
may consolidate in a tight range ahead of non-farm payrolls data
tomorrow.”  The ringgit weakened 0.6 percent to 2.9920 per dollar and
the Indonesian rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 8,573.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 