-- 
European Services, Manufacturing Growth Accelerated in April

-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-05-04T09:51:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/europe-services-manufacturing-growth-accelerated-in-april-1-.html
European services and manufacturing
growth accelerated in April, led by factory output, suggesting
the 17-member euro-region economy is weathering surging energy
costs and tougher budget cuts.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries rose to 57.8 from 57.6 in March,
London-based Markit Economics said in a statement today. That’s
in line with an initial estimate on April 19. A reading above 50
indicates expansion. Euro-region retail sales fell 1 percent in
March from the previous month, when they rose 0.3 percent, the
European Union’s statistics office said in a statement today.  European companies have relied on faster-growing economies
to boost sales as governments from Ireland to Spain tackle
budget deficits while rising energy costs squeeze household
incomes.  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, today
raised its full-year earnings forecast.  “The key question remains whether the euro zone can
sustain this decent growth over the coming months as fiscal
tightening increasingly kicks in across the region,” said
 Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
 London . “There are also significant concerns about the strength
of  consumer spending ” as  oil prices  fuel inflation.  The euro pared gains after the data were released and
traded at $1.4867 at 11:05 a.m. in Frankfurt, up 0.3 percent on
the day.  European Employment  The euro-area services indicator fell to 56.7 from 57.2 in
March, Markit said, below a preliminary reading of 56.9 released
last month. The manufacturing gauge increased to 58 from 57.5.
In  Germany , which has fueled the region’s recovery, a
manufacturing indicator rose to 62 from 60.9 in March, while a
services gauge slipped to 56.8 from 60.1.  A gauge measuring employment rose for a 12th month in
April, Markit said in today’s report, with companies taking on
additional staff to meet rising demand for goods and services. A
sub-indicator of new business also increased last month.  German family-owned companies expect to boost exports this
year, according to a survey of about 400 companies conducted by
Deutsche Bank AG, the BDI Federation of German Industries and
the Institute for Mittelstand Research. German carmakers
including Daimler AG,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and Volkswagen
AG’s Audi unit have benefited from surging Chinese demand.  ‘Record Earnings’  “We have generated record earnings and sold more cars in a
first quarter than ever before,” BMW Chief Executive Officer
 Norbert Reithofer  said in a statement today. The company “is
well on its way towards achieving new sales volume and earnings
records for the full year.”  Still, Europeans’ confidence in the economic outlook
declined in April after crude prices increased 11 percent since
the start of 2011, driving inflation to the fastest pace in 2
1/2 years and threatening to undermine growth. Average prices
charged for goods and services rose at the fastest pace since
July 2008 last month, Markit said today.  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, said in the
statement that “soaring growth” in Germany and France, the
euro region’s two largest economies, failed to bolster an
expansion among peripheral states.  Spain  “practically stagnated
in recent months, and growth slowed in both Italy and Ireland in
April,” he said.  While economists in a Bloomberg News survey expect the
 European Central Bank  to keep its benchmark interest rate at
1.25 percent tomorrow, some policy makers have already signaled
they see a need to tighten policy further.  “Inflationary pressures are most evident in France and
Germany,” Williamson said in the statement. “A slight dip in
the rate of input cost inflation will do little to steady nerves
among hawkish policy makers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Henry in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  