-- 
Extract Rises on Plan For Namibia Mine Even Amid Government Policy Changes

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-05-04T07:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/extract-rises-in-sydney-on-plans-to-proceed-with-namibian-mine.html
Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) , aiming to
build the world’s third-largest uranium mine, rose the most in
six weeks in Sydney after saying development work will continue
even as  Namibia  plans to take ownership of all mining rights.  Extract rose 14 percent, the most since March 21, to A$7.63
at the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney, while the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index dropped 0.9 percent. The explorer is proceeding with
drilling and plans to develop the Husab project in Namibia, the
Perth-based company said today in a statement.  The explorer, 43 percent-owned by London-based  Kalahari
Minerals Plc (KAH) , fell 20 percent in two days last week after
reports that uranium was among industries facing the Namibian
legislation. Extract said May 2 it’s “confident” that its
application for a Husab mining license, lodged in December,
wouldn’t be hurt by the government’s proposal to give all
permits in the African nation to state-owned company, Epangelo.  Extract also said today that the  Australian Securities and
Investments Commission  is considering whether a possible bid by
China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co. for Kalahari would
trigger an acquisition of Extract. The Australian regulator
hasn’t yet made a ruling, the company said today.  U.K. Regulator  China Guangdong is appealing against a decision from a U.K.
regulator that bars it from lowering a proposed offer for
Kalahari. The company approached Kalahari, whose main asset is
the stake in Extract, to discuss the terms after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  knocked out power to reactors at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, spurring concern that
demand for uranium may be curbed.  The Chinese company and Kalahari approached the U.K.
Takeover Panel with a proposed cut in the offer price to 270
pence ($4.44) a share from 290 pence, Kalahari said yesterday.
Both companies agreed to vary the terms, and a firm offer must
be made by June 17 if Kalahari wins the appeal, it said.  China Guangdong said in March that its bid for Kalahari
depends on Australian regulators granting an exemption allowing
it to hold more than 20 percent of Extract. The Chinese company
is seeking access to the Husab venture, expected to produce 15
million pounds of uranium oxide a year, starting in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  