-- 
F-1 Teams Need ‘Heavily’ Persuading on Takeover, McLaren’s Dennis Says

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l ,   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-05-04T15:08:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/f-1-would-need-heavily-persuading-on-takeover-dennis-says.html
McLaren Group, which owns Formula
One’s second-most successful team, and its competitors need to
be “heavily persuaded” to back a takeover bid by  News Corp. (NWSA) 
and  Exor SpA (EXO)  should the buyers plan to move the sport to pay-
television, Chairman Ron Dennis said.  The pair of possible bidders is starting to approach teams
to discuss plans for a buyout, and no decision has yet been made
on broadcasting, said a person familiar with the situation who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. Formula One owner CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. said yesterday it received a “friendly”
approach from the group.  News Corp. owns pay-television channels British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc and  Sky Italia . Formula One teams rely on
the 20-race series being on free-to-air television to raise
sponsorship sales, Dennis said today in an interview in Woking,
England. McLaren’s car carries the brands of sponsors such as
Vodafone Group Plc and Diageo Plc.  “We generate revenue from the surface of the racing car,”
Dennis said. “The teams would have to be heavily persuaded to
support anything that wouldn’t see that free-to-air element of
Grand Prix racing maintained.”  Turin, Italy-based Exor is the biggest shareholder in
carmaker  Fiat SpA (F) , with a stake of about 30 percent. Fiat in
turn owns Ferrari SpA, which has run the  most successful Formula
One team  since the series began in 1950. That could create a
“conflict of interest” and influence whether teams support a
buyout, Dennis said.  It would be “like someone who owns a football team wishing
to invest in the league,” Dennis said.  Accord Expiring  The commercial accord between Formula One teams and CVC
expires after the 2012 season. In 2010, teams shared $658
million in prize money, a 21 percent increase on the previous
year, according to filings by CVC at  Companies House  in  London 
last month.  Formula One had net income of $296 million last year after
increasing sales by 2 percent to $1.08 billion, the filings said.  The McLaren team was formed in 1963 and has won 10 drivers’
championships, a tally only bettered by Ferrari. Its most recent
champion was  Lewis Hamilton  in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net 
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  