-- 
Fed’s Rosengren Says Job Growth Too Slow to Remove Stimulus

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 
2011-05-04T21:50:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/fed-s-rosengren-says-u-s-job-growth-too-slow-to-remove-stimulus-program.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the economy isn’t growing fast
enough to achieve the central bank’s goals of full employment
and stable prices, and that “nothing’s off the table” if the
outlook deteriorates.  “I’d like to see growth that’s strong enough to generate
jobs at a faster rate than 200,000” a month, Rosengren said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television to air tomorrow. For
interest rates to rise, “we’d have to see much more job growth
than we’ve seen to date.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues on the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said last week that the economy,
which has added an average of 149,000 jobs a month over the last
six months, is recovering at a “moderate pace.” For Rosengren,
the labor-market recovery is insufficient to begin contemplating
a removal of stimulus.  “We have an  unemployment rate  at 8.8 percent and in the
longer run we’d expect something closer to 5 to 6 percent,”
Rosengren said. “We’re well above where we would expect to be
over a four- or five-year period, so we need to stimulate the
economy enough to get much more job growth.”  The unemployment rate dropped to 8.8 percent in March from
9.8 percent in November, the month the Fed began its $600
billion bond-purchase program to boost the recovery and stave
off deflation.  The Labor Department will probably report on May 6 that the
jobless rate was unchanged in April and 185,000 jobs were added
to payrolls, according to the median estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. A report today from ADP Employer Services estimated
companies added 179,000 workers in April.  Far From Targets  “Right now we’re pretty far away from our targets, and
right now we’re keeping monetary policy accommodative,”
Rosengren said. “It’s very appropriate given how far we are
from our targets.”  The interview was filmed on the 31st floor of the regional
bank’s downtown headquarters overlooking  Boston ’s financial
district to the west and what is believed to be the site of the
Boston Tea Party to the east.  Rosengren, 53, joined the Boston Fed as an economist in
1985 and became its president in 2007.  Fed presidents  rotate
voting on monetary policy, with Rosengren next voting in 2013.
At the Fed’s December 2007 meeting, he became the only currently
serving policy maker to dissent from an FOMC decision in favor
of more accommodative policy.  ‘Whatever Makes Sense’  Asked whether a third round of quantitative easing policy
was still under consideration, Rosengren said that “nothing’s
off the table, it depends on economic conditions, so we have to
do whatever makes sense given our outlook for the economy.”  “If we were to see inflation rates going down dramatically
and the unemployment rate going up dramatically, we’d have to
reexamine what our monetary policy is,” he said. “That’s not
something I expect, that’s not something that’s in most people’s
forecasts.”  By the end of 2011, Rosengren expects unemployment to fall
“a little below 8.5 percent.” That is in the center of FOMC
forecasts in April, released last week, showing most Fed policy
makers expect unemployment of 8.4 percent to 8.7 percent at the
end of the year. “That’s not as good as I’d like to see. That’s
very slow progress in labor markets,” Rosengren said.  In a speech today in Boston and in the interview, Rosengren
emphasized his view that the current rise in inflation was
likely to be “transitory.” Raising  interest rates  to temper
the increase in commodity prices would “likely make the impact
of the shocks worse for households and businesses,” he said in
his speech.  Longer-run inflation expectations, as measured by the
spread between Treasury Inflation Protected Securities and
nominal bonds, show investors expect inflation of 3.03 percent
in five to 10 years, up from 2 percent as recently as August.  Rosengren said expectations are still well anchored.  “One way you would see inflation expectations manifest
themselves is through higher wages and salaries,” he said.
“We’re not seeing that today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Boston at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  