-- 
Fed’s Williams Says High Inflation Is ‘Very Unlikely’ as Commodities Ease

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-04T21:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/fed-s-williams-says-high-inflation-is-very-unlikely-as-commodities-ease.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco 
President John C. Williams said a period of high inflation is
“very unlikely” because rising commodity prices spurred by
global demand aren’t likely to keep climbing.  “The economy today faces many pitfalls, but I don’t
believe that runaway inflation is one of them,” the regional
bank chief said today in his first policy speech as a central
bank official. Even so, “one of the most important policy
questions we are grappling with at the Fed has to do with
inflation.”  Williams, a former research director who became president
in March, used the speech in Los Angeles to defend the  Federal
Open Market Committee ’s policies, saying recent economic data
have been “lackluster” and the U.S. is still trying to regain
millions of jobs lost in the recession. Companies last month
added fewer workers than anticipated by economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, and service industries expanded at the slowest
pace in eight months, according to reports released today.  The economy faces “persistent headwinds” such as high
gasoline prices and a “severely depressed” housing market, yet
“has enough forward momentum to overcome” them, Williams, 48,
said in remarks to Town Hall  Los Angeles , a nonprofit group that
hosts speakers. The U.S. should grow more than 3 percent in the
current quarter, up from a 1.8 percent rate estimated for the
first three months of the year, he said.  Stocks Fall  Williams told reporters after the speech that he favors a
return to an all-Treasuries balance sheet at the Fed, and won’t
“prejudge” whether the central bank will boost stimulus.
Additional easing will depend entirely on forecasts, and there
shouldn’t be a large movement in rates after the central bank’s
current bond-buying program ends, he said.  “I don’t prejudge whether we would do more,” the regional
bank chief said.  U.S. stocks fell after the  service-industries  and
employment reports damped optimism about the health of the
economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.7 percent to
1,347.32 in New York trading as commodity producers led
declines. The S&P/GSCI Index of raw materials sank 1.5 percent.  Policy makers, after meeting in Washington last month,
stood by their commitment to complete their $600 billion
Treasury-securities purchase program aimed at boosting the
recovery. They also released lower forecasts for economic growth
this year and raised estimates for a key gauge of inflation that
excludes volatile food and energy prices.  Range of Estimates  The range of estimates for growth this year was cut to 3.1
percent to 3.3 percent, from 3.4 percent to 3.9 percent in
January. Estimates for the personal consumption expenditures
index, minus food and energy, ranged from 1.3 percent to 1.6
percent, up from a prior range of 1 percent to 1.3 percent.  “I view a sustained period of high inflation as very
unlikely,” said Williams, who votes on policy next year, adding
that the inflation rate should peak in the middle of the year
before returning to an annual level of 1.25 percent to 1.5
percent. “If we see signs of it developing, then we will act
quickly and we will act decisively to ensure  price stability .”  Rising commodity prices are the result of global supply and
demand and are unlikely to rise over the long term, he said.
They represent only a “small portion” of the cost of finished
goods and long-term inflation expectations are still stable,
Williams said.  Wage-Price Spiral  In addition, the wage-price spiral that existed in the
1970s is “largely absent today,” he said, adding that Fed
policies are unlikely to account for more than “a very small
portion” of commodity-price increases.  Fed officials left the benchmark interest rate in a range
of zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December 2008,
and said they’re likely to keep it there for “an extended
period.”  The central bank also plans to initially hold the level of
its balance sheet steady after completing the $600 billion
program, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at an April 27 press
conference.  Williams, who has worked in the Fed system since 1994, was
a senior economist for the  Council of Economic Advisers  during
the Clinton administration. The Sacramento native succeeded
 Janet Yellen , who became the Fed board’s vice chairman in
October.  In response to audience questions after his speech,
Williams said “things continue to be very challenging” for
small businesses, which lack equity or collateral for borrowing.
“This is one of the important reasons why the recovery may not
have been as strong as expected,” he said.  Williams also said he sees no “big risk” of  China 
changing the level of its holdings of U.S. Treasuries, and that
he opposes legislation introduced by Representative  Barney Frank , a Democrat from  Massachusetts , that would strip Fed
regional bank presidents of their power to vote on interest-rate
decisions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in  Washington  at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  