-- 
Fed’s Fisher Says He Would Be Among First to Support Tightening

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 
2011-05-04T22:13:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/fed-s-fisher-says-he-would-be-among-first-to-support-tightening.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank has done all it
can to revive growth and that he would be at the forefront of
urging tighter credit to fight inflation if needed.  “Should it prove necessary to counter inflationary
pressures, I will be among the first to advocate the unwinding
of some of the stimulus we have provided and returning monetary
policy to a more normal stance,” Fisher said today in a speech
in Las Cruces, New Mexico.  While higher prices of gasoline and other commodities
haven’t filtered through to broader inflation, “we must not
become complacent,” he said. Fisher, while voting this year to
support the completion of the Fed’s $600 billion of Treasury
purchases, is among a minority of policy makers who have
signaled they may favor removing record monetary stimulus soon
after the buying ends.  “If we are going to have success in creating a long-run
sustainable recovery with lots of job growth, we must keep
inflation under control,” Fisher said in remarks at  New Mexico 
State University, saying he was echoing comments made last week
by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . “I am confident in our ability
to do so.”  Speaking with reporters after the speech, he said that
total-inflation figures “have gotten a little stout” recently.
“Our job is to make sure it is transitory,” Fisher said, using
a word from the Fed’s last statement. The Fed’s mandate to keep
prices stable is “precious,” and without the public’s
confidence that the Fed will control inflation, “expectations
can lead to creating inflation itself,” he said.  ‘Moderate Pace’  The FOMC said April 27 after a two-day meeting that the
economy is recovering at a “moderate pace” and a pickup in
inflation is likely to be temporary. Fed officials agreed to
finish the large-scale bond purchases on schedule in June,
completing what’s been dubbed QE2 for a second round of so-
called quantitative easing. The Fed has left its benchmark
interest rate close to zero since December 2008.  Bernanke, speaking on April 27 at his first regular press
conference, signaled that the central bank will maintain its
record stimulus after June and indicated that the need to
contain inflation means further easing is unlikely.  Economic data today signaled that a slowdown in growth that
began in the first three months of the year may be extending
into the second quarter.  Service Industries   Service industries expanded at the slowest pace in eight
months in April, according to the  Institute for Supply
Management , as companies cut back in response to rising energy
costs. A separate report from ADP Employer Services showed
companies expanded payrolls last month at the slowest pace in
five months.  Fisher said today that while “bad winter weather” and
higher energy prices “sapped some steam from the recovery this
year,” other indicators suggest growth is likely to “pick up
in coming months.” He said manufacturing is expanding,
benefiting from increased exports and company spending on
equipment and software.  The recovery in the housing market will be a “slow
crawl,” he told reporters.  Fisher, 62, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. When Fisher last had a Federal Open Market Committee vote
in 2008, he dissented five times in favor of tighter policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Korosec in  Las Cruces , New Mexico, at 
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  