-- 
Fed’s Lockhart Says Employment Recovery May Take Three Years

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-05-04T22:59:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/fed-s-lockhart-says-employment-recovery-may-take-three-years.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the nation’s workforce may be
three years away from returning to its pre-recession size.  “There is virtually no net  job creation  resulting from new
business formation in recent quarters,” Lockhart said in the
text of remarks given in Atlanta today. The economy has shown
“relatively muted employment growth” that “in part reflects
businesses’ continued reliance on higher productivity of
existing workers rather than on workforce expansion,” he said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  last week pledged to spur
the recovery by finishing its $600 billion bond-purchase program
in June and holding  interest rates  low for an “extended
period.” U.S. companies in April added the fewest employees in
five months, and  service industries  expanded at the slowest pace
since August, according to reports today.  Lockhart predicted average monthly job growth of about
200,000 for the rest of 2011. He said productivity gains have
been “substitutes for job creation” and that the “absence of
net growth in the small-business segment of the economy is
troubling.”  Employment at companies rose by 179,000 in April, according
to ADP Employer Services. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey called for a 198,000 gain. Meanwhile, the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s index of non-manufacturing companies
declined to 52.8 last month, lower than the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, from 57.3 in March.  Stocks Fall  Stocks fell and Treasuries rose on concern that a slowdown
in economic growth that began in the first three months of the
year is extending into the second quarter. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index fell 0.7 percent to 1,347.32, and the yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell three basis points to 3.22
percent.  The Labor Department will report May 6 that the economy
added 185,000 jobs in April, according to the median estimate of
a Bloomberg survey. The  unemployment rate  will remain unchanged
at 8.8 percent, the survey showed.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the  Atlanta Fed  since 2007. Fed regional bank presidents
rotate voting on monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  