-- 
FirstRand Says Its Considering Sale of Bonds in Euros, Dollars or Pounds

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-05-04T15:03:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/firstrand-says-its-considering-sale-of-bonds-in-euros-dollars-or-pounds.html
FirstRand Bank Ltd., a unit of  South
Africa ’s second-biggest financial services company, may sell
bonds in euros, dollars or pounds, a year after delaying an
international bond sale because of volatile market conditions.  FirstRand plans to meet bond investors starting May 9 in
London, Zurich and Geneva, the Johannesburg-based lender’s
treasurer, Andries du Toit, said in a phone interview today. The
size and currency of the issue will depend on investor demand,
he said.  “We are meeting investors to see what the market appetite
is, and what the pricing would look like,” Du Toit said. “If
the pricing is right, we’ll issue.”  FirstRand on April 21 last year delayed plans to sell at
least 500 million euros ($743 million) of five-year bonds in
euro, pounds, rand or yen after probes into Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. made market pricing volatile. It said at the time it wanted
to raise money to expand its operations in  Africa .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Mitsubishi UFJ Securities
International, Standard Chartered Plc and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are arranging
next week’s meetings, which end May 11, with FirstRand, a banker
involved in the arrangements said.  The lender’s long-term foreign currency debt is rated A3 by
Moody’s Investor Service, the fourth-lowest investment-grade
rating. It is rated BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s, the third-lowest
investment-grade rating.  FirstRand leads bond sales by lenders in South Africa this
year, raising the equivalent of $631.74 million in 10 issues,
compared with $592.99 by second-placed Absa Group Ltd., a unit
of Barclays Plc, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 