-- 
First Reserve Raises $1.2 Billion for First Infrastructure Fund

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-05-04T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/first-reserve-raises-1-2-billion-for-first-infrastructure-fund.html
First Reserve Corp., the private-
equity firm focusing on energy and natural resources, raised
$1.2 billion for its first fund devoted solely to infrastructure
investments.  First Reserve Energy Infrastructure Fund LP will invest in
western  Europe  and  North America , the Greenwich, Connecticut-
based firm said today in a statement. The fund follows the 2009
formation of First Reserve’s 12th buyout pool, which totaled $9
billion.  The infrastructure fund, which has a 15-year life instead
of the 10 years typical of private-equity pools, will invest in
such areas as pipelines, utilities and renewable energy. Its
first deal was a joint venture with SunEdison LLC to own solar
power facilities, announced last May.  “There’s  population growth , a replacement cycle for
existing infrastructure and a policy shift toward cleaner
sources of energy,” Mark Florian, First Reserve managing
director, said in an interview. “All of these things are going
to create a velocity of investment needs.”  First Reserve has 15 investment professionals working on
the new fund, Florian said. Those employees work from offices in
 London  and Greenwich.  Infrastructure funds aim to deliver annual returns in the
mid-teens, lower than traditional private-equity funds that
often promise annual returns in excess of 20 percent.
Infrastructure funds take less risk and typically make
investments that allow them to pay regular dividends to their
investors over the life of the fund.  Rising Energy Prices  Private-equity firms have ratcheted up deal-making
involving natural resources to take advantage of rising energy
prices and consumption tied to both developed and emerging
markets. KKR & Co., the New York firm managed by  Henry Kravis 
and  George Roberts , told investors earlier this year it had
raised more than $1.5 billion for infrastructure deals.  First Reserve, created in 1983, has more than $20 billion
in assets under management. The firm’s investments include CHC
Helicopter Corp., a provider of flights to offshore rigs and
platforms, and Glencore International AG, the Swiss commodities
trader.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  