-- 
Freddie Mac Reports $676 Million Profit, Won’t Seek Aid

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-05-04T22:45:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/freddie-mac-reports-676-million-first-quarter-profit-won-t-seek-u-s-aid.html
A shrinking inventory of delinquent
loans and foreclosed properties helped government-owned mortgage
finance company  Freddie Mac  post a $676 million first-quarter
profit and avoid an infusion of Treasury Department aid.  Freddie Mac reported net worth of $1.2 billion for the
three-month period that ended March 31 even after paying the
Treasury $1.6 billion in quarterly dividends on the government’s
nearly 80 percent stake, the company said today in a statement.
The McLean, Virginia-based firm reported a $6.7 billion loss for
the same period a year earlier.  The improved performance was attributed to lower provisions
for credit losses, which fell for a fifth consecutive quarter to
$2 billion from $3.1 billion at the end of December. Loan
performance also improved, with serious delinquencies falling to
3.63 percent from 3.84 percent in the preceding quarter.  “That is a continuation of a trend, where the actual
performance of the credits we guarantee is gradually
improving,” Chief Financial Officer Ross J. Kari said today in
an interview.  Loans made from 2005 to 2008 remain “the bulk of the
challenge,” Kari said. That part of the portfolio is shrinking
as loans are refinanced, modified or foreclosed, he said.  The company’s inventory of foreclosed homes fell by more
than 6,900 units to 65,159 properties since December, the
company said.  The quarterly profit was Freddie Mac’s second since being
taken over by federal regulators in September 2008. The company
posted a profit of $768 million in the second quarter of 2009
attributable partly to one-time accounting adjustments and
didn’t ask for Treasury aid the following quarter.  “They still have this large backlog of non-performing
loans,” said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN
Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “The best positive is that the
inflow of bad loans appears to have stopped.”  Freddie Mac and its larger rival, Washington-based  Fannie
Mae , own or guarantee more than half of U.S. home loans. The
federal government took control of the companies in September
2008 amid losses stemming from the collapse of the mortgage
market. Since then, they have drawn $153 billion in federal aid
to remain solvent amid soaring foreclosures and lagging  home
prices .  The Obama administration and Republican lawmakers in
Congress are working on plans to wind down the companies as part
of an effort to rebuild the U.S. housing-finance system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 