-- 
GE Said to Seek Bids for $3 Billion Rail-Car Leasing Unit

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-05-04T20:33:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/ge-said-to-seek-bids-for-rail-car-unit-with-3-billion-of-assets.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is seeking buyers
for a rail-car leasing business with about $3 billion of assets
and hired Morgan Stanley as an adviser, after a 2008 sale effort
failed, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Potential bidders are likely to include private-equity
firms and rail-car leasing competitors, said one of the people,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are
private. Initial bids are due next week, the people said.  The attempted sale revives a push to market the unit before
the financial crisis, when GE discussed an offer of more than $3
billion from freight-car lessor  GATX Corp. (GMT) , people familiar with
the matter said at the time. GE has been working to shrink the
share of profit generated by its GE Capital finance division.  GE is “exploring alternatives for the business,” said
 Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for the Fairfield, Connecticut-
based company, declining to discuss details. Pen Pendleton, a
spokesman for New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , declined to
comment. The Deal reported on the sale plan yesterday.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer rescued by
the U.S. government, agreed last month to sell a rail-car
leasing unit to Perella Weinberg Partners LP. That accord valued
AIG’s business at about $600 million, people familiar with the
matter said last month.  Rail volumes excluding grain and coal shipments rose 7.9
percent to 4.6 million carloads in the three months ended March
31, according to data compiled by the  Association of American
Railroads  in  Washington . It was the second-highest increase in a
first quarter, following last year’s 9.3 percent gain.  Shipments in that category represent the bulk of materials
used in industrial production, so an increase in volumes bodes
well for the broader economy, according to John Mims, a
transportation analyst in Richmond, Virginia, at BB&T Corp.  GE fell 37 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $20.27 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading as broad U.S. indexes
declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  