-- 
Geithner Says U.S. Tax Dispute Shouldn’t Stop Deficit Progress

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-05-04T23:24:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/geithner-says-u-s-tax-dispute-shouldn-t-stop-deficit-progress.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Democrats and Republicans shouldn’t let
disagreements over taxes prevent progress on reducing the
federal  budget deficit .  “What you want to do for confidence and credibility is to
take off the table the risk that political disagreements on
things like the shape of  tax reform  will force us to live with
unsustainable deficits,” Geithner said today at a conference
held by the  Investment Company Institute  in Washington. “That’s
not a responsible path. You have to take that off the table.”  President Barack Obama has offered the outlines of a plan
to reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over 12 years through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases. House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, has
proposed cutting spending by $6 trillion over a decade in part
by privatizing Medicare and capping Medicaid spending.  Geithner said “deep divisions within the parties” on
issues such as Medicare and Medicaid shouldn’t “stand in the
way of beginning this process of restoring balance to our fiscal
position.”  On international affairs, Geithner reiterated the Obama
administration position that China should let the yuan “move in
response to market forces more rapidly, to open up more
opportunities to American producers.”  Geithner and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton will be
meeting May 9 and 10 in Washington with Chinese officials,
including Vice Premier Wang Qishan and State Councilor Dai Bingguo.  China ’s currency remains “substantially undervalued,”
Geithner said in the  prepared version  of remarks released by the
Treasury Department and given yesterday at an event held by the
 U.S.-China Business Council . “China needs to let the exchange
rate adjust at a faster pace to correct that undervaluation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  