-- 
Glaxo May Settle 1,000 More Lawsuits Over Avandia, Patients’ Lawyer Says

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-05-05T15:53:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/glaxo-is-poised-to-settle-about-1-000-suits-over-avandia-drug-lawyer-says.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , after setting
aside more than $6 billion to help settle lawsuits over
medicines including its Avandia diabetes drug, is poised to
resolve 1,000 more cases, a lawyer for patients said.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, is in settlement talks
with lawyers for an estimated 1,000 former Avandia users who
sued the company in state courts in Pennsylvania,  California  and
 Illinois , Dianne Nast, a plaintiffs’ attorney who serves on a
group helping to oversee cases consolidated in federal court in
Philadelphia, said in an interview yesterday.  “There are a total of about 5,300 state-court cases
pending” around the country, Nast told U.S. District Judge
Cynthia Rufe at a hearing in Philadelphia. “I expect a multiple
number of them probably will be resolved.” After the hearing,
Nast declined to comment on the amount of any settlements.  The company said in September it would stop promoting
Avandia worldwide after regulators said the treatment would be
withdrawn from the market in  Europe  and sales would be limited
in the U.S. because of studies linking the drug to increased
risks of heart attacks.  Sales of Avandia fell 43 percent in the wake of the
restrictions, the company said. Avandia was once the world’s
best-selling diabetes pill, generating $3 billion in annual
sales.  $3.5 Billion Charge  Glaxo officials have agreed to pay at least $700 million
over the last eight months to resolve about 12,000 suits
alleging the drugmaker failed to warn consumers that Avandia
could cause heart attacks and strokes, people familiar with the
accords told Bloomberg News earlier.  Bernadette King , a U.S.-based Glaxo spokeswoman, declined
comment on the Avandia settlement talks. Glaxo shares rose 3.5
pence to 1,310 pence at the close of London trading.  Glaxo said in January it was taking a $3.5 billion charge
to cover expenses linked to investigations and suits over
Avandia and sales practices on other drugs. The reserve brings
to more than $6 billion the amount the drugmaker has set aside
for legal costs tied to Avandia and other drugs, such as its
antidepressant Paxil.  Glaxo officials also updated Avandia’s warning label in
February to include safety restrictions ordered by federal
regulators, who cited studies showing the drug poses an
increased risk of heart attack and stroke for some users.  Along with the state court cases, Glaxo faces about 1,600
suits consolidated before Rufe in Philadelphia for pre-trial
proceedings, Nast said. Those are the cases that remain after
the settlements, she added in an interview outside court.  2,400 Claims Settled  Settlement talks in state court in  Los Angeles  already have
resulted in 2,400 former Avandia users settling their claims,
Nast told the judge. The lawyer said she expected the talks to
generate about another 200 settlements in state court in
Philadelphia and an undetermined number in Illinois.  Two Avandia cases have been set for trial in November in
 New Mexico  and California, Nast said. Another New Mexico trial
has been set for March 2012, she added.  Setting firm dates for jury trials helps push Glaxo and
consumers to resolve the cases,  Samuel Lanham Jr. , a Bangor-
Maine-based lawyer for former Avandia users told the judge.  “The sooner we get something teed up, the better,” he
said.  The consolidated case is In re Avandia Marketing, Sales
Practices and Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  