-- 
Glencore May Get $61 Billion Value in London, Hong Kong IPO

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-05-04T18:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/glencore-will-seek-10-billion-in-world-s-biggest-initial-offer-this-year.html
Glencore International AG, the
commodities trader planning the year’s biggest initial public
offering, said the share sale in  London  and  Hong Kong  this month
may value the company at about $61 billion.  Glencore plans to sell shares at 480 pence ($7.90) to 580
pence each, the Baar, Switzerland-based company said today in a
statement. The mid-point of the range indicates a market value
of $61 billion upon listing, with final pricing around May 19.  The company, ending more than three decades of operating as
a closely held partnership, may raise about $10 billion in the
sale, making it the largest IPO since General Motors Co. sold
stock in November. So-called cornerstone investors, including
 Abu Dhabi ’s Aabar Investments PJSC and BlackRock Inc., agreed to
buy about 31 percent of the shares on offer, Glencore said.  The sale has “one of the largest cornerstone investor
participations ever achieved for an IPO,” said Chief Executive
Officer Ivan Glasenberg, who will own a 15.8 percent stake upon
listing. His holding may be worth about $9.6 billion based on
the mid-point of the pricing range.  That mid-point values Glencore at about $52.5 billion
before it receives the IPO proceeds, based on 6 billion shares
outstanding before the sale. Four analyst reports last month
from banks advising on the offering gave an average pre-IPO
valuation range of $52.3 billion to $68.7 billion.  ‘Good Deal’  “We might be towards the lower end of the range,”  John Meyer , an analyst at Fairfax IS in London, said in an interview
with  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown.” “A
lot of these cornerstone funds have been promised a good deal
here and if you price at the top of the range you risk maybe
messing that up and breaking that promise.”  Glencore expects conditional dealings in the shares to
start on the London Stock Exchange around May 19 and admission
and unconditional trade from May 24. As much as 13.9 percent of
Glencore will be publicly tradable, according to a sale document
sent to potential investors and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Aabar Investments, an Abu Dhabi government-controlled
company, has agreed to invest $850 million and BlackRock $360
million, making them the two biggest cornerstone investors,
according to Glencore’s IPO prospectus published today.  IPO Investors  Brookside Capital LLC, Credit Suisse Group AG, Eton Park
Capital Management LP,  Fidelity Investments , Government of
Singapore Investment Corp., Och-Ziff Capital Management Group
LLC, Pictet & Cie., UBS AG, York Capital Management and Zijin
Mining Group Co. are also investing, the prospectus shows.  The IPO was announced April 14, the same week that Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. advised a retreat from commodities, saying the
risks of investing outweighed potential gains. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24 commodities has beaten
bonds, stocks and the dollar every month since December, the
longest run in at least 14 years.  Glencore’s first-quarter trading performance “continued to
benefit from improved market conditions, as also experienced in
the final months of 2010,” the company said today.  Glencore, which trades commodities including coal, oil and
metals, plans to sell about $7.9 billion of new stock while
existing holders may sell an additional $2.1 billion in shares
for tax purposes and to repay loans. The company said last month
it will use the funds for expansion and acquisitions.  The IPO includes an overallotment option, known as the
greenshoe, of 10 percent of the offer. Cornerstone investors are
subject to a lock-up period of six months, Glencore said.  General Motors  General Motors sold $15.8 billion of common shares and an
overallotment raising $18.1 billion. Glencore is likely to be
included in the FTSE-100 Index on the first day of trading in
London, it said last month.  Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley are
managing the IPO as global coordinators, along with Bank of
America Corp. and BNP Paribas as joint bookrunners. Barclays
Plc, Societe Generale SA and UBS were appointed co-bookrunners.  Glencore employs 2,700 people at trading units across more
than 40 countries and about 54,800 people at its industrial
operations, its  website  shows. The name, short for “global
energy commodity resources,” was changed from Marc Rich & Co.
after management bought out former fugitive U.S. financier Marc Rich in 1994.  Glencore is the biggest shareholder in  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the
world’s largest exporter of power-station coal, with a 34.5
percent stake.  Glencore sold $2.2 billion of convertible bonds, its first
such offering, in December 2009, saying the debt could be
exchanged for shares in the event of an IPO. BlackRock,
Government of Singapore Investment, Zijin Mining and First
Reserve Corp. invested in the bonds.  The sale gave the company a pre-conversion equity value of
$35 billion, Glencore said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 