-- 
Glencore to Raise $10 Billion From Initial Public Offering

-- B y   F o x   H u ,   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-05-04T05:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/glencore-to-sell-shares-at-up-to-580-pence-each-in-initial-stock-offering.html
Glencore International AG’s initial
public offering in  London  and  Hong Kong , the largest in the
world this year, will raise as much as $10 billion, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The company priced the about 1 billion shares on offer at
480 pence ($7.91) to 580 pence apiece, the people said,
declining to be identified before an announcement.  A phone call to Glencore’s offices in Baar,  Switzerland 
wasn’t answered outside of regular business hours. Reuters
reported the pricing earlier, citing a person it didn’t
identify.  The IPO will be the largest since General Motors Co. sold
new stock last year.  Glencore, which changed its name from Marc Rich & Co. after
the management bought out former fugitive U.S. financier Marc
Rich in 1994, is ending more than three decades of operating as
a closely held partnership. Four analyst reports last month from
banks advising on the IPO estimated the company’s value at an
average range of $52.3 billion to $68.7 billion.  The trader of commodities including coal, oil and metals
said last month it was seeking to raise $6.8 billion to $8.8
billion from the sale of new stock, while existing holders may
sell an additional $2.2 billion in shares for tax purposes. It
plans to use the funds for expansion and acquisitions.  Global Managers  Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley
are managing the IPO as global coordinators, along with Bank of
America Corp. and BNP Paribas as joint bookrunners. Barclays
Plc, Societe Generale SA and UBS AG were appointed co-
bookrunners and Liberum Capital Ltd. as a syndicate member.  Glencore employs 2,000 people at trading units across 40
countries and more than 50,000 people at its industrial
operations, its  website  shows. Rich founded the company as Marc
Rich & Co. in 1974 after spending 21 years at Philipp Bros.,
then the biggest commodities trader. He sold his share to
management 20 years later and the company was renamed Glencore,
short for “global energy commodity resources.”  Glencore is the biggest shareholder in  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the
world’s largest exporter of power-station coal, with a 34.5
percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at   fhu7@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net  