-- 
Glencore Chief Glasenberg Poised to Become Firm’s Biggest Owner After IPO

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-05-04T18:41:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/glencore-chief-glasenberg-poised-to-become-firm-s-biggest-owner-after-ipo.html
Glencore International AG Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg will own 15.8 percent of the
commodities company after its initial public offering this
month, which may value his stake at about $9.6 billion.  Glasenberg, 54, will be the largest holder in Baar,
Switzerland-based Glencore with 1.086 billion shares, according
to the company’s prospectus. The IPO will also create
billionaires in directors Daniel Mate, Telis Mistakidis, Tor Peterson and Alex Beard, the prospectus shows.  Glasenberg’s stake exceeds what the founders of Google Inc.
and Blackstone Group LP reaped in their IPOs.  Stephen Schwarzman ’s holding in Blackstone was $8.8 billion when the New
York-based private-equity firm went public in 2007, while Google
founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin  held $3.28 billion and $3.27
billion of the internet search company’s stock at its 2004 IPO.  Glencore’s top executives won’t be able to sell any of
their stakes in the year following the IPO. They will be able to
divest as much as 20 percent of their original holding over each
of the next four years, the filing shows.  “There may be a begrudging admiration for the fact that
Glasenberg is a multibillionaire, but he is tied in for five
years,” Miriam Hehir, director of credit research at  RBC
Capital Markets  in  London , said by telephone. “The fact he has
got such a huge stake in the business should be good for other
investors really.”  Marc Rich  Glasenberg, an accounting graduate, has been at Glencore
since 1984 and CEO since 2002. He was part of a management-led
buyout of the business from founder and former fugitive U.S.
financier Marc Rich in 1994 and is now heading a $10 billion
IPO, the world’s biggest this year. Based on the mid-point of
the pricing range, Glencore would be valued at about $61 billion
upon listing, giving Glasenberg a stake of about $9.6 billion.  Mate and Mistakidis, co-directors of Glencore’s zinc,
copper and lead unit, have stakes valued at about $3.7 billion
each, based on the company’s estimated market value. Peterson is
director of the coal and coke unit and his stake may be valued
at $3.2 billion. The holding of Beard, director of the oil unit,
may be worth $2.8 billion.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s IPO, 12 years ago this week,
valued then-CEO  Henry Paulson ’s stake at $219 million.  Commodities Rally  Glencore, which trades commodities such as coal, oil and
metals, has trading units across 40 countries, as well as
industrial operations and stakes in listed mining companies,
including about 34 percent of Xstrata. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Total Return Index of 24 commodities has beaten bonds,
stocks and the dollar every month since December, the longest
run in at least 14 years.  “Partners are not taking their money off the table,”
Glasenberg said in an interview last month. “Is it the top of
the cycle? Who knows, who cares? We are only potentially selling
out in five years time so let’s worry about the market in five
years time.”  Glasenberg, who was once a competitive walker and completed
two Swiss triathlons at the age of 43, graduated in 1981 from
the University of the Witwatersrand. He earned his accounting
certification at Levitt Kirson, and a master of business
administration degree from the University of  Southern California 
in 1983, before joining Glencore a year later.  His annual salary is 925,000 pounds ($1.53 million),
according to the prospectus. Non-Executive Chairman Simon Murray’s salary is 675,000 pounds.  Glencore plans to sell shares at 480 pence to 580 pence
each, the company said today in a statement. Final pricing is
due around May 19.  Analysts had estimated the company’s pre-IPO valuation at
$52.3 billion to $68.7 billion, according to the average range
from four reports last month by banks advising on the IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  