-- 
Glencore CEO’s IPO Wealth May Beat Google, Blackstone Founders

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-05-04T17:30:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/glencore-ceo-glasenberg-s-ipo-wealth-may-beat-google-blackstone-founders.html
Glencore International AG’s initial
public offering may value Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg’s stake at $9.6 billion, more than  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s founders reaped in their IPOs.  Glasenberg, 54, will own 16 percent of the Swiss commodity
trader after the sale, which may give the company a market
capitalization of about $61 billion, according to a prospectus
published today.  Stephen Schwarzman ’s stake in Blackstone was $8.8 billion
when the New York-based private-equity firm went public in June
2007. Google founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin  held $3.28
billion and $3.27 billion of the internet search company’s stock
at its IPO in 2004.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s IPO, 12 years
ago, pegged then-CEO Henry Paulson’s stake at $219 million.  “I can’t think of any other IPO where an individual’s
stake was valued this highly,” said Jay Ritter, a finance
professor at the University of  Florida  in Gainesville.  Glencore’s IPO is set to make at least four more senior
executives billionaires. Daniel Mate and Telis Mistakidis, the
Baar, Switzerland-based firm’s top traders of zinc, copper and
lead, will hold 6 percent stakes valued at about $3.7 billion,
the filing shows. Tor Peterson, director of coal and coke, and
Alex Beard, who oversees oil trading, will have stakes of about
$3.2 billion and $2.8 billion, the prospectus shows.  Sale Restrictions  Simon Buerk , a Glencore spokesman in Baar, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment today.  Glasenberg and Glencore’s top executives won’t be able to
sell any of their stakes in the year following the IPO. They
will be able to sell as much as 20 percent of their original
holding over each of the next four years, the filing shows.  Their wealth will, therefore, fluctuate with the stock
price. Blackstone, which first sold shares to the public for $31
each, now trades at $18.05, eroding Schwarzman’s wealth. By
contrast, Brin and Page’s stake in Google has soared in value as
the stock jumped from its $85 IPO price to more than $534 today.  “This is the best time for an IPO,” said Michael Tamvakis,
a commodities professor at Cass Business School in  London .
“Glencore’s margins are driven by commodity prices. If prices
fall, those will be squeezed.”  Amancio Ortega’s holding in Inditex SA, the clothing
company he founded, was valued at 6.9 billion euros, about $5.9
billion at the  exchange rate  when the stock began trading in May
2001.  Ortega, 75, is the world’s seventh-richest person,
according to Forbes’s list of billionaires for 2011. Glasenberg
would rank 92nd, after Johanna Quandt, a member of Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG’s controlling family, and Maria-Elizabeth and
Georg Schaeffler, who own part of  Schaeffler Group , the world’s
biggest maker of roller bearings.  Accounting Graduate  Glasenberg, an accounting graduate, has been at Glencore
since 1984 and CEO since 2002. He was part of a management-led
buyout of the business from founder and former fugitive U.S.
financier Marc Rich in 1994.  Glasenberg, who was once a competitive walker and completed
two Swiss triathlons at the age of 43, graduated in 1981 from
the University of the Witwatersrand. He earned his accounting
certification at Levitt Kirson and his master of business
administration degree from the University of  Southern California 
in 1983. He joined Glencore a year later.  The company plans to sell shares at 480 pence ($7.95) to
580 pence each, Glencore said in a statement today. The final
price will be set around May 19, when the stock is set to begin
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net 
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  