-- 
MGM Resorts Rises as Quarterly Loss Narrows on Macau, Las Vegas

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-05-04T19:25:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/mgm-resorts-first-quarter-loss-narrows-on-macau-las-vegas-1-.html
MGM Resorts International (MGM) , the biggest
casino operator on the  Las Vegas Strip , rose the most since
October in New York trading as its first-quarter loss narrowed
on higher earnings in Macau and a recovery in the  Nevada  city.  The net loss shrank to $89.9 million, or 18 cents a share,
from $96.7 million, or 22 cents a share, a year earlier, the Las
Vegas-based company said today in a statement. Excluding some
items, the loss was 16 cents, smaller than the 19-cent average
of 24 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Most of MGM’s 10 Las Vegas Strip resorts exceeded analyst
expectations, signaling a firming of the recovery from a record
two-year slump in gambling and conventions. In Macau, the
world’s biggest casino market, total gambling revenue rose
43 percent in the quarter, helping MGM’s joint venture in the
Chinese region more than double its income.  “The recovery is clearly under way right now and it’s
gaining traction,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jim Murren said in a telephone interview. “It was really across the
portfolio in leisure and retail travelers and conventions.”  He forecast that the convention business growth rate will
be in “double digits” this year and in 2012.  MGM gained $1.47, or 11 percent, to $14.36 at 3:24 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Earlier, the shares
rose as much as 12 percent, the most intraday since Oct. 8. They
declined 13 percent this year before today.  Sales Increase  Revenue rose 3.3 percent from a year earlier to
$1.5 billion, in line with the average estimate of analysts.
 Cash flow  at wholly owned casinos, or adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, rose 12 percent
to $301 million.  In  Las Vegas , Revpar, a measure of room rates and
occupancy, rose 16 percent, as occupancy climbed to 87 percent
from 85 percent and as the company charged resort fees.
Excluding daily resort fees, Revpar increased 11 percent. The
pace of bookings is ahead of last year across conventions and
events, and the usually soft summer period, Murren said.  Convention room nights, which often fetch higher prices
than vacationer nights, will be 14 percent of MGM’s Las Vegas
bookings this year, rising from 12 percent in 2010, and exceeded
20 percent in the first quarter, the company said.  Macau Venture  Total operating income from MGM’s Macau joint venture rose
to $126 million from $49 million a year earlier, the company
said. MGM plans to take 51 percent control of its China Holdings
Ltd. when partner  Pansy Ho  sells part of her stake in a Hong
Kong initial public offering this year.  Resort Ebitda at the $8.5 billion CityCenter joint venture
of hotels, condominiums, a casino and mall on the Las Vegas
Strip was $64 million in the first quarter, on revenue of
$262 million.  MGM and partner Dubai World opened CityCenter in December
2009 after the project skirted bankruptcy. The partners replaced
most of the property’s $1.8 billion loan with bonds with later
maturities this year.  MGM Resorts has signed up more than 1 million customers to
its new M Life loyalty program, Murren said. The company has
formed alliances with rental-car company  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR) ,
Delaware casino owner  Dover Downs Gaming & Entertainment Inc. (DDE) ,
and  Rank Group Plc (RNK) , the U.K. operator of casinos and bingo
clubs, the CEO said on a conference call today.  MGM is negotiating marketing alliances to offer reciprocal
rewards with other companies including casino owners outside
Nevada to draw more visitors, build its loyalty database and
reduce marketing costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  