-- 
GM’s First Quarter May Be Most Profitable in 11 Years on Sales

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-05-04T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/gm-s-first-quarter-may-be-most-profitable-in-11-years-as-u-s-sales-rise.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S.
automaker, may report $1.74 billion in net income for the three
months ended in March as rising sales in the U.S. and China
helped the company to its best first quarter since 2000.  Earnings probably rose 63 percent from $1.07 billion a year
earlier, according to the average of four analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The results, to be released tomorrow,
would be the fifth straight quarterly profit for the Detroit-
based automaker since emerging from bankruptcy in July 2009.  The automaker’s performance and the market’s reaction will
help determine how quickly the U.S. Treasury Department can
start selling the remaining 33 percent stake held in the
company. The Treasury can file to sell its shares as soon as May
22 and will track market prices after earnings are announced, a
person familiar with the matter said last month.  “There needs to be some catalyst to move the stock,” said
David Whiston, an analyst with research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in
 Chicago . “It will probably take several quarters of beating
analyst estimates to get the stock price in the high $30s.”  GM hasn’t closed above last year’s $33 initial public
offering price since March 3 as investors evaluate how much the
company is outspending competitors to boost sales and assess
management stability following the April 1 departure of Chief
Financial Officer  Chris Liddell , Whiston said. While the maker
of Chevrolet, Buick, GMC and Cadillac cars will post strong
results, the challenge is getting investors to notice, he said.  GM yesterday rose 81 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $32.99 in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has fallen
15 percent from its Jan. 7 closing high of $38.98.  Incentive Strategy  Earnings probably rose partly because of sales growth in
 North America ,  Chris Ceraso , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG in New York, wrote in an April 21 research note. Sales
increased industrywide in North America, with GM grabbing a
larger portion by offering buyer incentives, Ceraso said.  “After all of the concern over GM’s incentive strategy, it
appears that the favorable profit contribution from higher
volumes more than offset the additional cost from the
incentives,” Ceraso wrote.  Excluding certain items, GM is expected to report first-
quarter profit of 91 cents a share, the average of 13 estimates.  GM said April 1 that U.S. sales jumped 26 percent to
592,545 vehicles in the first quarter as demand for the
Chevrolet Cruze helped double the company’s share in the
compact-car segment to more than 11 percent.  UBS Upgrade  With Japanese automakers facing inventory shortages
stemming from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, GM may be
able to add 1.1 percentage points of total U.S. market share and
boost earnings per share this year by 60 cents, Colin Langan, a
UBS Securities analyst in New York, said in a May 3 report. He
upgraded the stock to “buy” with a $42 12-month price target.  “GM will be the biggest beneficiary of the upcoming Japan-
related inventory shortages,” Langan said.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. automaker, said
April 26 that first-quarter profit rose 22 percent to the most
for the period since 1998 as the Dearborn, Michigan-based
company won higher prices for fuel-efficient new models.  Auburn
Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler Group LLC this week reported its
first net income since bankruptcy reorganization in 2009, helped
by better pricing.  Margin Improvement  GM’s margins probably improved in the first quarter, Itay Michaeli, an analyst at Citigroup Global Markets in New York,
said in a telephone interview.  “There’s a positive read-through from Ford’s earnings,
Michaeli said. ‘‘Look at how nicely Ford’s margins recovered in
the first quarter, and how they did in  Europe , where everyone
has been struggling,” Michaeli said.  GM is expected to retake the crown for most global auto
sales from  Toyota Motor Corp. (TM)  this year, said  Jeff Schuster ,
executive director of forecasting for J.D. Power & Associates, a
research firm in  Westlake Village ,  California . Toyota has lost
production because of plant shutdowns following the earthquake.
GM also is better positioned to expand sales in China, he said.  While GM may see weaker results in China in the short-term
as some regional governments restrict car sales to manage
traffic congestion, GM’s China operations are a reason to buy
the stock, Michaeli said in his note.  “What happened in the first quarter was not a structural
change in demand in China,” Michaeli wrote. “These are more
growing pains and near-term volatilities you have in a growing
market. The core fundamentals for  China  vehicle penetration
remain very strong.”  Citigroup is forecasting about 15 percent growth in China
car sales and a little less than that for GM. Last year, car
sales rose 27 percent in China, Michaeli said.  Unwise to Sell  The U.S. took a 61 percent ownership of GM as part of the
automaker’s government-led bailout and bankruptcy reorganization
in 2009. The Treasury sold shares equal to a 28 percent stake
during the November IPO of the company.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  in a meeting late
last month told the staff overseeing government investments in
GM and Chrysler that there is no deadline to sell, said a person
familiar with the meeting.  The Treasury would like a minimum of the $33 IPO price and
preferably see the stock rise above $40, the person said.  “It would be unwise for Treasury to sell in the upper $30s
when price targets are in the $40s,” Whiston said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  