-- 
Goldman Sachs May Make ‘Near-Term’ Management Changes, UBS Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-05-04T15:54:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/goldman-sachs-may-make-near-term-management-changes-ubs-says.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , accused of
misleading clients by a U.S. Senate inquiry, is likely to make
management changes in the “near-term,” said William Tanona, an
analyst at UBS AG.  “Any turnover will concern investors despite the firm’s
deep bench,” Tanona, who worked at Goldman Sachs from 2005 to
2008, wrote today in a note to investors. “GS’s management team
is very strong; however, missteps on the public relations front
have further tarnished the firm’s reputation.” Managers will
remain under strain after lawmakers sent findings to the Justice
Department and Securities and Exchange Commission, he said.  Senator  Carl Levin  of Michigan, the Democratic chairman of
the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, and Tom Coburn of
 Oklahoma , the panel’s senior Republican, signed a letter asking
prosecutors and the SEC to examine findings of a two-year
inquiry on the financial crisis released last month. Levin said
he wants them to determine whether Goldman Sachs broke laws by
misleading clients who bought securities tied to the housing
market without knowing the firm would benefit if values fell.  In making his prediction, Tanona didn’t identify any
managers who might leave or take new roles, according to a
summary of his note. Stephen Cohen, a spokesman for New York-
based Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  Tanona initiated coverage on Goldman Sachs in a note today
that rated the firm “buy.” His share-price estimate for the
firm is $200, 32 percent above yesterday’s closing price.
Goldman Sachs has fallen 9.7 percent this year, after dropping
0.4 percent in 2010.  JPMorgan, Citigroup  Tanona, who previously covered financial firms at Collins
Stewart Plc before joining Zurich-based UBS last year, also
placed initial “buy” recommendations on  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , according to the note. He rated  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  “neutral.”  The sector of universal banks and brokers has “significant
long-term upside” while legal and regulatory issues may provide
“turbulence” in the short-term, he wrote.  The Senate report came less than a year after Goldman Sachs
paid $550 million to resolve SEC claims that it failed to
disclose that hedge fund Paulson & Co. was betting against, and
influenced the selection of, collateralized debt obligations the
company was packaging and selling.  Attorney General  Eric Holder , testifying before the House
Judiciary Committee yesterday, confirmed that his department is
scrutinizing the Senate report. Two people briefed on the matter
confirmed that the SEC enforcement division is also studying it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 