-- 
Google Invests in African Internet Expansion for Future Revenue

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 
2011-05-04T09:05:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/google-invests-in-african-internet-expansion-for-future-revenue.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is helping to expand
Internet access in  Africa , the world’s poorest continent, laying
the groundwork for revenue growth, said Joe Mucheru, the
company’s head for sub-Saharan Africa.  The owner of the world’s most popular search engine is
investing in infrastructure, creating search pages in local
languages and helping universities adapt their curriculum to
changing technology across Africa, Mucheru said in a phone
interview on May 2 from Nairobi.  “It’s more about getting more people on the Internet,” he
said. “At the moment revenue is not our focus. In the next few
years, we could be looking at revenue.”  Africa, with about 1 billion people, has 15 percent of the
world’s population and only 2 percent of its  Internet users ,
Mucheru said, citing figures from the International
Telecommunications Union. While Google’s revenue from the
continent isn’t “a significant number,” the company sees a
good investment opportunity in helping close the gap and getting
more people to use the company’s products, said Mucheru.  Nigeria , Africa’s most populous country of 150 million
people, where Google opened a  two-day conference  yesterday for
local entrepreneurs and developers in Lagos, the commercial
capital, is central to the company’s Africa policy, he said.
Google’s engineers have flown in from around the world to
provide training on the use of its applications for business and
advertising, the company said.  Local Languages  Nigeria’s Internet users now make up about 29 percent of
its population, a fourfold increase since 2008, according to the
International Telecommunications Union. Google’s efforts to
increase access include an arrangement with six universities in
the country whereby it provides a link to the Internet and the
institutions provide their own wireless network.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , has developed
search engines in three Nigerian languages and is working on
others to ensure that “language shouldn’t be a barrier” to the
Internet, said Mucheru. The company is currently focusing its
Africa efforts on  South Africa ,  Kenya , Uganda, Senegal,  Ghana 
and Nigeria, with plans to add Cameroon and Ethiopia later this
year.  New submarine fiber-optic links to Africa that have been
completed or are being built promise an “abundance of cyber-
connectivity,” said Mucheru. In anticipation of growing
broadband capacity, Google is working with telecommunications
companies, including Internet service providers, equipment
manufacturers and software developers to take advantage of it,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 