-- 
Google Seeks Antitrust Lawyer as It Faces Regulatory Scrutiny

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-05-05T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/google-seeks-to-bolster-antitrust-team-amid-regulator-scrutiny.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , with the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission said to be preparing an investigation of its
dominant position in the Internet search industry, is seeking to
hire an antitrust lawyer, according to an online job posting.  An advertisement yesterday on Linkedin Corp.’s networking
website said it seeks a new lawyer to join Google’s competition
team based at the company’s  Mountain View , California
headquarters. The person will work with Google’s in-house and
outside antitrust lawyers on issues “related to planned
products or services” as well as “represent Google in
regulatory proceedings at the state, federal and international
levels,” according to the posting.  Google has been bolstering its team of competition lawyers
as it faces growing scrutiny from regulators. Officials in  Texas 
and at the European Commission have started investigations into
Google’s search dominance, while Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine is considering such a probe. The FTC has started alerting
companies to gather information for a probe of Google, three
people familiar with the matter said last week.  Google hired Stewart Jeffries, formerly an antitrust
counsel for the House Judiciary Committee, at its Washington
office in February. Sara Walsh joined Google’s competition team
at headquarters from the law firm of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich and
Rosati in  New York  in October, according to her Linkedin
profile.  “We’ve been steadily hiring lawyers in all areas,” said
Google spokesman Adam Kovacevich. Google’s website has
advertised for a competition lawyer on a “semi-permanent basis
for the past two years,” he said.  Competition Law  The lawyer sought by Google on Linkedin should have at
least five years of experience that include advising companies
on competition law, and experience litigating cases under
Section 1 and Section 2 of the Sherman Act, one of the main U.S.
antitrust laws, according to the posting.  The FTC told the companies it contacted that it plans to
issue so-called civil investigative demands for the information,
said the people, who requested anonymity because the FTC hasn’t
made the matter public. The demands are similar to subpoenas.  The EU probe is examining whether Google discriminated
against other services in search results and stopped websites
from accepting rival ads. A complaint from Microsoft last month
may expand the investigation to online video and mobile phones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 