-- 
Grains Wilt in Dry Europe as England Posts Its Hottest April in 352 Years

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-05-04T15:14:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/grains-may-suffer-as-dry-weather-persists-according-to-hgca.html
Dry weather in  France  and Germany and
England’s hottest April in at least 352 years are threatening
crops across the European Union, producer of a fifth of the
world’s wheat.  About 20 percent of average rain fell in the U.K. in April
after a dry March, further reducing soil moisture, the  Home-
Grown Cereals Authority , an industry group, said in an e-mailed
report. European wheat and rapeseed crops are “in jeopardy”
after an “incredibly dry” April, according to agricultural
weather forecaster Martell Crop Projections.  Dry, warm weather in Europe may reduce global wheat
stockpiles already expected to fall 7.6 percent in the year that
ends on May 31, the biggest decline since 2007. Food prices
reached a record in February, driving 44 million people into
poverty, and wheat consumption may rise to an all-time high this
year. The world “cannot afford” for  Europe ’s crop to be
diminished,  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior economist at the
United Nations’  Food and Agriculture Organization , said last
month.  “The world needs a  bumper crop  in all grains from the U.S.
and from Europe and from  Canada  or we are in trouble,”  Dennis
Gartman , an economist and author of The Gartman Letter, said
today by e-mail. “The winter wheat crop here is in trouble, and
the spring wheat crop in the Dakotas and the Canadian prairies
may be very badly delayed and therefore in jeopardy.”  Inciting Riots  Feed-wheat futures traded in London almost doubled in the
past year and milling-wheat futures gained 91 percent in Paris
trading. Prices gained partly after the worst Russian drought in
a half-century cut production, causing the government to ban
exports of grains. Chicago futures, the world benchmark, rose 55
percent in the past year. Rising prices were partly blamed for
inciting riots in north  Africa  and the Middle East that led to
the ouster of presidents in Tunisia and  Egypt .  The average temperature in the area covered by the Central
 England  Temperature gauge, an area bound by London, Bristol and
Manchester, was 11.8 degrees Celsius (53.24 degrees Fahrenheit)
in April, the warmest since record-keeping started in 1659,
according to the  Met Office .  March was the driest since 1961 in England and  Wales , the
 National Farmers’ Union  said in a report today. April’s water
reserves were the lowest since 1996 as dry, warm weather
persists, the NFU said.  “Some members, particularly in the east of the U.K., have
been reporting slow and patchy emergence of spring crops and
some signs of water stress developing for winter-sown oilseed
rape and some winter cereal crops,” the NFU said on its
website.  ‘Tipping Point’  Wheat and rapeseed in France,  Germany  and the U.K., the
largest wheat producers in the EU, are ready to deteriorate
rapidly without rain, Gail Martell, the head of Whitefish Bay,
Wisconsin-based Martell Crop Projections, said in an e-mailed
report two days ago.  The grains are at an “important tipping point” because
stored soil moisture from the winter has been used up, Martell
said. The meteorologist said 65 percent of European wheat and 75
percent to 80 percent of rapeseed are in jeopardy.  “Earlier-maturing winter crops are likely to be worst
affected without rain, so at the moment that means barley and
rapeseed,” Dave Norris, an independent feed broker in
Harrogate, England, said today by e-mail. “Spring-planted crops
haven’t got off to a good start either, with very little
moisture since they got planted, which again means barley and
rapeseed.”  Global Stockpiles  Wheat is the EU’s second-largest agricultural export after
wine, with an average value of 3.45 billion euros ($5.1 billion)
a year from 2008 to 2010, according to the bloc. The 27-nation
grouping will produce 136.08 million metric tons of wheat in the
year that ends on May 31, USDA data show. Global output will
total 647.18 million tons, according to the USDA.  Global wheat stockpiles are expected to fall to 182.8
million tons in the year through May 31, down from 197.9 million
a year earlier, USDA data show. World consumption of wheat will
total a record 660.8 million tons this year, up 1.6 percent from
a year ago, the USDA said.  Drought in the U.S. southern Great Plains also may curb
production, boosting prices further and increasing costs for
bread and cereal makers. Wheat yields may fall in north-central
 Kansas  and southern  Nebraska  from a year ago, according to data
from the Wheat Quality Council’s annual crop tour.  Yields may average 40 bushels an acre, based on
observations from 267 fields collected on the first day of the
tour. In 2010, the estimated yield in the area surveyed on the
first day was 40.7 bushels, based on 213 observations, council
data show. The tour traveled from  Manhattan  to Colby, Kansas.  Livestock Costs  Wet weather in northern Plains and Midwest states may curb
production of corn, USDA data show. Farmers who grow the grain,
the biggest ingredient in animal rations, may instead plant
soybeans, driving up the price of the grain and increasing costs
for companies that feed livestock.  About 13 percent of the U.S. corn crop, the world’s
biggest, was planted as of May 1, the  USDA said this week . That
compared with 9 percent a week earlier and 66 percent a year
earlier. The average was 40 percent at this time of year from
2006 to 2010. Spring wheat was 10 percent planted, down from the
five-year average of 43 percent, USDA data show.  ‘Decent’ Rains  The  United Nations ’ food-price index, which reached a
record 236.76 points in February, may climb to 240 points by the
year’s end from 229.84 in March, driven by demand for meat,
oilseeds and grains, Resilience AG fund manager  William Adams 
said last week.  “If rain doesn’t arrive in 10 to 14 days, there will be
start to be an impact on yields if there has not been already,”
said David Eudall, an analyst at the HGCA, which is a division
of the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board.  “If a decent amount of rain does arrive in the coming days
and weeks, the impact could be smaller. However, the forecasts
are not predicting this in many areas at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  