-- 
Gulf Coast Gasoline Gains as Mississippi Barge Traffic Slows

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-05-04T20:36:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/gulf-coast-gasoline-gains-as-mississippi-barge-traffic-slows.html
Gulf Coast and Midwest spot gasoline
gained as a slowdown in barge traffic because of high water
levels on the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers threatened to disrupt
oil and petroleum-product shipments.  Operations may also be disrupted at refineries owned by
Valero Energy Corp. and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  that are located on
the Mississippi. Heavy rain has swelled  river levels  to their
highest ever along parts of the Ohio and Mississippi, according
to government data.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Gulf Coast narrowed 1.05 cents to 5.2 cents a gallon versus
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 2:14 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the strongest
differential for this time of year since 2007. Prompt delivery
slipped 0.22 cent to $3.2647 a gallon.  “Several thousand barges have probably been slowed,”
Craig E. Philip, chief executive officer of Ingram Barge Co.,
said in a telephone interview. “The area that is the most
impacted is the center of the network between Memphis and  St.
Louis  on the Mississippi and the lower part of the Ohio River.”  The same fuel in the Midwest, or Group 3, rose 0.13 cent
versus futures to a discount of 2.75 cents a gallon.  Refineries in the Midwest, including Valero’s Memphis
plant, and those nearer the mouth of the Mississippi, were
making contingency plans in the event of flooding.  “Both Exxon Mobil Baton Rouge and Chalmette Refining LLC
are closely monitoring the situation,” Kevin Allexon, a company
spokesman based in Fairfax, Virginia, said in an e-mail. The
refineries, located in Louisiana, “are taking precautions
against potential impacts of the forecasted high water
conditions,” he said.  Valero is watching water levels, but expects the  Memphis 
refinery to remain in operation,  Bill Day , a company spokesman,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 