-- 
Libyan Security Forces Face Prosecutor’s War Crimes Charges

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-04T02:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/libya-s-security-forces-face-war-crimes-charges-for-attacks-on-civilians.html
The prosecutor of the  International
Criminal Court  said there are reasonable grounds to believe that
Muammar Qaddafi’s security forces committed  war crimes  and
crimes against humanity since unrest in  Libya  began in February.  “The office of the prosecutor will submit its first
application for an arrest warrant” to the court’s Pre-Trial
Chamber in the coming weeks, the prosecutor, Argentine lawyer
 Luis Moreno-Ocampo , said in a report to the  United Nations
Security Council .  Evidence collected by his office shows “security forces
allegedly attacking unarmed civilians constituting crimes
against humanity” and “the existence of an armed conflict with
alleged war crimes,” the report said. Sources included 45
interviews, trips to 10 different nations and analysis of 569
documents.  Moreno-Ocampo was authorized by the Security Council to
undertake the investigation in a resolution adopted unanimously
on Feb. 26. He is scheduled to brief the  Security Council  on his
findings tomorrow.  The report raises the prospect that Qaddafi, his family and
top aides might be charged with committing crimes, targeted with
an international arrest warrant and put on trial at  The Hague .
“The office will select for prosecution those who bear the
highest responsibility, including those who ordered, incited,
financed or otherwise planned the commission of the alleged
crimes,” the report said.  ‘Matter of Policy’  “Shooting at peaceful protesters was systematic,” the
report said, adding that up to 500 may have been killed in
February alone. “War crimes are apparently committed as a
matter of policy.”  Moreno-Ocampo cited evidence of murder, rape, torture,
unlawful imprisonment and deportation, as well as a government
effort to cover up the alleged crimes.  The report also found evidence that anti-government
protesters arrested and killed sub-Saharan Africans perceived to
be mercenaries hired to quash demonstrations.  Moreno-Ocampo concluded that despite government assertions,
there is “no genuine national investigation or prosecution” of
security forces. The absence of national action is grounds for
prosecution by the  International Criminal Court , according to
the statute that created it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  