-- 
Qaddafi’s Cash Hoard Will Be Made Available to Libyan Rebels, Clinton Says

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-05T14:43:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/libya-s-qaddafi-bombards-rebel-held-towns-as-allies-prepare-for-meeting.html
Allied nations opposing  Muammar Qaddafi  granted Libyan rebels the right to request the
dictator’s frozen assets as Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said part of the $33 billion in the U.S. will be made available.  Clinton made the announcement at a meeting in Rome today of
foreign ministers from NATO and allied nations, most of which
are taking part in Libyan operations. In a  statement , the Libyan
Contact Group said it agreed a separate finance mechanism for
donors to aid the  Transitional National Council , the Libyan
rebel authority in the eastern city of Benghazi. The statement
said Kuwait gave $180 million to the fund. It didn’t mention any
other donations.  The Obama administration wants to use “some portion of
those assets owned by Qaddafi and the Libyan government in the
 United States , so we can make those funds available to help the
Libyan people,” Clinton said. The Treasury Department said
about $33 billion of Libyan state assets were held in the U.S.
at the end of March.  Qaddafi’s forces continued to bombard rebel-held cities as
the foreign ministers met. Allies including Qatar took part in
the Rome meeting as did TNC members.  ‘Strike His Forces’  “As long as Qaddafi continues to attack his citizens, we
will continue to strike his forces and the assets, facilities
and command centers across Libya that are supporting his
operations,” Clinton said in remarks to other ministers.  Clinton also announced that the U.S. will remove legal
barriers to make it easier for oil sales to benefit the TNC.  The Treasury Department recently took steps to remove
barriers under U.S. law for oil-related transactions that
benefit the Transitional Council. Kuwait announced that it would
assist and Clinton called on other members of the Gulf
Cooperation Council to help.  The insurgency in Libya, which has Africa’s largest proven
oil reserves, has helped push  oil prices  up by almost a third.
Oil declined for a fourth day in New York, the longest losing
streak in almost eight weeks. Crude oil for June delivery
dropped $3.37, or 3.1 percent, to $105.87 a barrel at 9:18 a.m.
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The contract touched
$105.11, the lowest level since March 31. Prices are up 32
percent from a year ago.  More Aid Needed  Clinton said the U.S. will provide $53 million toward the
United Nations target of raising $310 million for Libyan relief.
“They are still a long way from that goal,” Clinton said. She
noted that the U.S. is providing another $13 million in other
relief support for  Libya  and urged more countries to contribute.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization Secretary General
Anders Fogh Rasmussen urged the allies yesterday to channel
money to Libya’s opposition.  “Funding is a political move to foster regime change and
less about protecting Libyan civilians,”  Jan Techau , director
of the  Carnegie Endowment for International Peace  in Brussels
and a former German Defense Ministry analyst, said in a phone
interview. “Rasmussen wants to find which countries subscribe
to regime change and how to pay for it.”  Air Strikes  The insurgency against Qaddafi’s four-decade rule of Libya
began in February and allied forces have been making air strikes
since March.  Qaddafi loyalists pounded the rebel-held western port of
Misrata yesterday, endangering an aid ship which delivered
supplies and picked up stranded migrant workers and wounded
Libyans.  A British mine-clearing vessel, HMS Brocklesby, destroyed a
mine containing 100 kilograms (220 pounds) of high explosives
laid by pro-Qaddafi forces at the entrance to Misrata’s harbor,
the Ministry of Defense in  London  said in an e-mailed statement.  British jets attacked two multiple rocket launchers near
Sirte on May 3 and a pair of surface-to-air missile launchers
near Tripoli yesterday, the ministry said in a separate e-mailed
statement.  NATO said in an e-mailed statement its jets flew 62 strike
missions on May 3 and that alliance warplanes had targeted six
tanks and seven ammunition storage sites.  At the UN in  New York , the chief prosecutor of the
 International Criminal Court , Argentine lawyer Luis Moreno-
Ocampo, said he will seek arrest warrants for three members of
Qaddafi’s regime who “appear to bear the greatest criminal
responsibility” for  war crimes  and crimes against humanity.  Held Accountable  Without specifying Qaddafi by name, Moreno-Ocampo told the
UN Security Council that he wants to hold accountable “those
who ordered, incited, financed or otherwise planned the
commission of the alleged crimes.”  He cited evidence of murder, rape, torture, unlawful
imprisonment and deportation, as well as a government effort to
cover up the alleged crimes. The Qaddafi regime began planning
its repression of anti-government demonstrations before they
started, after observing the unrest in Egypt and  Tunisia , he
said.  Foreign Secretary  William Hague  expelled two Libyan
diplomats from the U.K., giving them until May 11 to leave the
country, the Foreign Office said.  “I ordered the expulsion of the two diplomats on the basis
that their activities were contrary to the interests of the
U.K.,” Hague said today in an e-mailed statement in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Rome  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  