-- 
Milan Mayor Moratti Pitches Building European Financial Hub Ahead of Vote

-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 
2011-05-05T13:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/milan-mayor-moratti-pitches-building-a-finance-hub-ahead-of-vote.html
Mayor Letizia Moratti wants to turn
Milan, long known as a fashion capital, into a financial center
as she seeks a second term, while critics say the city’s glut of
office space dooms the plan to failure.  After Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti said April 6 he backs
corporate tax cuts like those that transformed Dublin 10 years
ago, Moratti said she’ll use measures  under review  by Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s Cabinet to attract financial
companies and make Milan a “new capital for the fund
industry.”  Moratti, who lists urban planning as the key achievement of
her  five-year tenure , is overseeing the re-zoning of ex-army
barracks,  railway yards  and abandoned buildings for commercial
use. Her plan, approved Feb. 4 by the city council, also calls
for a scaled-down version of  London ’s  Canary Wharf  business
district to be built near a former Gypsy camp. The challenge for
Moratti, a former education minister, is to find investors for
the new projects, most of which are on the city’s outskirts and
not yet linked by metro lines.  The mayor’s initiative has emerged “at the worst possible
time,” said Carlo Romano, the Italian head of  Doughty Hanson  &
Co. Real Estate. Milan already has an oversupply of office
space, including the new Porta Nuova business district, he said
in an interview.  The city will free up 7 million square meters (75.3 million
square feet) of public land, enough to build 160 skyscrapers,
over the next 20 years for a development that may bring in as
much as 25 billion euros ($37 billion) in public and private
investments, based on estimates by analysts and developers
including Luigi Colombo, chairman of the  Lombardy region
builders’ association .  Berlusconi Ally  Moratti, who represents Berlusconi’s People of Liberty-led
coalition, is up for reelection on May 15 and May 16. She’s
favored to win the first round of balloting with 44 percent of
the vote, according to a poll of 2,000 people by  Termometro
Politico  conducted on April 27 and April 28. The poll’s margin
for error was 2 percent.  The mayor’s development plan was announced just as some 2.5
million square meters of luxury apartments and offices are
flooding the market. Carlo Masseroli, Milan’s urban planner,
said he’s confident incentives and low taxes will help realtors
fill the space.  Tax changes proposed by Tremonti would “allow us to really
play the game,” Masseroli said in an interview. “The scenario
will change dramatically.”  Opposition Candidate  Giuliano Pisapia, the center-left opposition’s mayoral
candidate, opposes the plan, noting that the city already has as
many as 80,000 empty apartments and 900,000 square meters of
unoccupied  office space .  The success of the development plan is “up to the
market,” Masseroli said. “We put the conditions in place,”
providing flexible building permits and 14 billion euros to
invest in public transportation, he said. A portion of that is
covered in the budget for  Expo 2015 , the international
exhibition the city hosts that year, he said.  Milan’s yearly take-up of office space is about 250,000
square meters, according to Susan Trevor-Briscoe, head of
research at realtor Savills Italy in Milan. Most of Porta Nuova,
a 2 billion-euro district that will host the global headquarters
of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, will be ready next year,
Manfredi Catella, chief executive officer of the area’s main
developer Hines  Italy , said in an interview.  CityLife  CityLife, a 431,000 square-meter project billed as Milan’s
biggest development, hasn’t begun selling office space in the
three towers it will start building in June, Claudio Artusi,
CityLife CEO, said in an interview. Insurer Fondiaria-Sai SpA in
March decided to sell its stake in CityLife to “increase
profitability” after posting a 718 million-euro loss in 2010.  Even without these projects, Milan’s office market has had
too much supply for at least two years, said Davide Madini,
Italy CEO at RREEF, a  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit which tried for 18
months to fill space in a 12,000 square-meter  office tower  in
Milan before selling it.  “It won’t be easy” to find investors, Doughty Hanson’s
Romano said, adding that his company may only be interested in
smaller projects. Euromilano, partly owned by  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) , has already committed to works in two of the new areas and
wants to complete part of the 520,000 square-meter Cascina
Merlata project near the Expo site by 2015. Hines is “looking”
at the new initiatives, Catella said.  Municipal Employees  City officials say tenants will come. International
investors are interested in Milan’s ex-railway sites and the
municipal government may move 16,000 employees to the Stephenson
district in the city’s northwest, the future home of the “new
Canary Wharf,” Masseroli said. He also wants a big Italian
bank, possibly Intesa, to move its headquarters there, he said.
Fondiaria, which owns part of the area, declined to comment on
its real-estate plans.  The development plan “is based on a vision to deliver more
green space, more public services, transport and social
housing,” the 61-year-old mayor said in Milan April 6.
Developers will be required to sell 35 percent of new units, or
about 35,000 apartments, at less than 2,000 euros per square
meter. Luxury apartments at Porta Nuova are for sale at an
average of 9,000 euros per square meter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  