-- 
Lime Wire, Founder Harmed Music Business, Industry Lawyer Says

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-05-05T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/lime-wire-jury-chosen-as-warner-music-sony-labels-seek-copyright-damages.html
Lime Wire LLC and founder  Mark Gorton 
should pay the highest range of damages for harming the
recording industry by allowing people to download songs for
free, a lawyer for the music labels told jurors in a trial.  “The harm that Lime Wire has caused is truly staggering,”
Glenn Pomerantz, a lawyer representing 13 labels, told a jury of
eight women and one man in federal court in Manhattan yesterday
in opening remarks. “Mark Gorton used other people’s property
to make money for himself.”  Music labels owned by  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG)  and  Sony
Corp. (6758)  are seeking hundreds of millions of dollars from Gorton
for copyright infringement. U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood  ruled
last May that  Lime Wire  induced the infringement of recordings
by allowing its users to download and share thousands of songs
on the Internet through its peer-to-peer file-sharing software.
The court ordered Lime Wire to shut its music service last year.  Pomerantz told the jury the record industry’s revenue
declined 52 percent from 2000, the year Lime Wire was founded,
to 2010.  Gorton’s lawyers will try to show that many other factors
were responsible for the drop in music industry revenue besides
peer-to-peer, or P2P, file-sharing.  “The record companies know and have known that their
problems started well before Lime Wire,” Joseph Baio, a lawyer
representing Lime Wire and Gorton, said in his opening statement
to the jury.’  Past Comments  Baio cited the  record companies ’ own past comments to show
that other factors were more to blame for the decrease in
revenue than file-sharing. These included counterfeit and copied
CDs, the economic recession, bankruptcies of music wholesalers
and retailers, the maturation of the CD market, competition from
other forms of entertainment such as video games, and the
industry’s own inability to exploit the new technologies.  The record labels  haven’t publicly indicated how much they
are seeking from Gorton. They will try to get statutory damages
under federal copyright law for 9,561 recordings released since
1972. If they ask the jury for maximum statutory damages of
$150,000 for each recording, that would result in an award of
$1.4 billion. Other damages on pre-1972 recordings will also be
sought.  “We will ask you to consider whether Mark Gorton’s state
of mind justifies the high end of the range,” Pomerantz said to
the jurors.  Baio said the labels deserved far less. Gorton made only
about $6 million from the songs the record companies have listed
as infringed, the lawyer said.  Fraudulent Transfer  The record companies have also accused Gorton of a
fraudulent transfer of assets into family limited partnerships
where they would be shielded from liability. Pomerantz told the
jurors Gorton made the transfer three days after the U.S.
 Supreme Court  ruled in 2005 that file-sharing service Grokster
could be held liable for copyright infringement.  Besides the assets in the limited family partnerships,
Gorton has $100 million in IRA accounts, Pomerantz told the
jurors.  Gorton’s lawyers have said that his transfer of assets was
part of estate planning and that the closing date was set before
the Supreme Court’s decision.  Gorton, 44, who has degrees in engineering from  Yale
University  and Stanford University and a business degree from
 Harvard University , will testify, lawyers said. Present in court
yesterday, he declined to comment.  The 13 labels are owned by the world’s four largest
recording companies --  Warner Music , Sony Music Entertainment,
 Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music Group and Citicorp’s EMI Group.  Zach Horowitz, the president of Universal Music, was called
by the record companies as the first witness yesterday. He will
continue testifying today.  The case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC, 06-05936,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 