-- 
Time Warner Profit Declines 9.9 Percent on Decline in Movie Revenue

-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-05-04T20:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/time-warner-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-as-ad-sales-gain-1-.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , owner of the Warner
Bros. studios, reported a 9.9 percent decline in first-quarter
profit as the film division’s revenue dropped and cable-network
costs rose.  First-quarter net income fell to $653 million, or 59 cents
a share, from $725 million, or 62 cents, a year earlier, the New
York-based company said today in a statement. Excluding some
items, profit was 58 cents a share. Analysts estimated 56 cents,
on average, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Filmed-entertainment sales dropped 3.3 percent to $2.6
billion as the first quarter’s movies didn’t measure up to hits
like “The Blind Side” and “ Sherlock Holmes ” a year ago. The
unit’s operating profit dropped by almost half.  “They just did not have as much product hitting DVDs and
the movie theaters compared to a year ago,” said  Barton Crockett , a New York-based analyst at Lazard Capital who rates
the shares “buy.”  The company, also owner of the Warner Bros. film studio,
fell $1.24, or 3.3 percent, to $36.49 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 13
percent this year.  Investors had high expectations after other media companies
posted positive results, Crockett said.  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and Viacom
Inc., owner of Nickelodeon and  MTV , topped profit expectations
by 52 percent and 16 percent, respectively.  “By comparison, it’s a little bit of a disappointment,”
Crockett said. “People have become accustomed to big beats.”  ‘March Madness’  Sales climbed 5.7 percent to $6.68 billion, compared with
analysts’ average estimate of $6.47 billion. Sales at the
networks business, which includes cable channels TNT, TBS,  HBO 
and Cartoon Network, rose 18 percent. The unit makes up more
than half of operating profit.  For the first year, Time Warner partnered with CBS to air
the National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s basketball
tournament, helping boost advertising revenue 20 percent. Time
Warner paid more than $200 million to air the competition,
increasing costs.  Time Warner and CBS signed a 14-year, $10.8 billion
contract to broadcast the tournament, known as “March
Madness.” This year’s games were the most-watched since 2005,
the company said.  Time Warner reaffirmed its full-year profit forecast,
saying in a separate statement that adjusted earnings from
continuing operations will increase by a “low teens”
percentage, from $2.41 a share a year ago. Analysts project
$2.74, on average, which reflects a 14 percent increase.  Flixster  Sales from the networks division climbed to $3.5 billion
from $2.96 billion, also helped by higher revenue from HBO’s
original programming, including “The Pacific” and “Boardwalk
Empire.”  The segment is getting a ratings boost from shows such as
“Conan” too, Crockett said. The late-night TV show starring
 Conan O’Brien , who left NBC’s “The Tonight Show” last year,
started in November.  Separately, Warner Bros. said it agreed to buy Flixster, an
online movie database that also owns film-review site Rotten
Tomatoes. The company, which has more than 25 million monthly
users, plans to expand its services to allow people to buy,
share and organize digital content. Terms of the deal weren’t
disclosed.  Sales from Time Warner’s publishing division, which include
magazines such as Time, People and Fortune, were little changed
at $798 million.  The company, which boosted its buyback plan to $5 billion
in January, had repurchased $1.3 billion of shares as of April
29, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  