-- 
Obama Said to Consider Ambassador to India Roemer for Commerce Secretary

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-05-05T05:07:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/india-ambassador-timothy-roemer-said-to-be-considered-for-commerce-chief.html
Timothy Roemer, the U.S. envoy to
 India  who is set to leave that post next month, is among the
candidates being considered by President  Barack Obama  to become
the next commerce secretary, according to people familiar with
the selection process.  Roemer is among several contenders to fill the job being
vacated by Gary Locke, whom Obama has nominated to be the U.S.
ambassador to  China . He is a former U.S. representative from
Indiana and served on the  Sept. 11 commission . Roemer, 54, also
was an early backer of Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign.  Roemer  announced  on April 28 that he was resigning as U.S.
ambassador to India for family and professional reasons and
expected to leave  New Delhi  in June.  “When I accepted this job two years ago, I told President
Obama that I would serve for two years but that family
considerations would be front and center after that,” Roemer,
whose two sons will be starting college in the next 14 months,
said in a statement released by the embassy.  Roemer was in Washington in late April and met with White
House aides, according to three people familiar with the matter
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the selection
process is still under way. Administration officials conveyed to
him that he was a candidate for the job, though other names are
also being considered, the people said.  Obama also has been considering naming a business executive
to the Commerce Department post.  Safe Choice  By selecting Roemer, who served six terms before leaving
Congress in 2003, Obama would be making a safe choice for a
position that requires Senate confirmation, said former  Indiana 
Senator Evan Bayh.  Roemer didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  In deciding on a new commerce secretary, the White House is
considering “two models -- the politician model and the ex-CEO
model,” said Bayh, a Democrat who left the Senate last year and
is now a partner at the law firm McGuireWoods LLP in Washington.  “The advantage of Tim is he’s very good at speaking and
talking to the public,” Bayh said. “Picking a CEO would extend
an olive branch to the business community.”  A chief executive officer also would have to defend a
corporate record, potentially drawing a fight during
confirmation hearings. Obama has faced criticism from some
Democratic and Republican lawmakers over his appointment of
General Electric Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  to
lead the president’s jobs council, which didn’t require Senate
approval.  Exports to India  As Obama’s India envoy, Roemer was involved in the
president’s strategy to double exports by 2015 and worked with
Immelt, Jim McNerney of Boeing Co.,  David Cote  of Honeywell
International Inc. and other CEOs to increase U.S. companies’
presence in India.  “He is someone who truly knows how to create jobs,” said
Joe Andrew, former chairman of the  Democratic National Committee ,
who knows Roemer from Indiana and national politics. Roemer is
“thoughtful, persuasive and pragmatic,” Andrew said.  If he is nominated, Roemer may face questions about a
decision by India’s Ministry of Defence to choose European
fighter jets over warplanes from  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) , snubbing lobbying efforts by the Obama administration.  In a statement released after the April 28 decision, Roemer
said the U.S. was “deeply disappointed” by the government’s
choice for the world’s biggest fighter-jet order in 15 years.  ‘Good Salesman’  “He was a good salesman for the U.S.,” said Rajiv Kumar,
director general at Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce
and Industry, who has met with Roemer. “He got to know the
country quite well, he cuts to the chase and concentrates on the
real issues.”  While a member of the House, Roemer voted against
ratification of the  North American Free Trade Agreement .  Among the possible nominees for the Commerce post who have
been mentioned by other people familiar with the
administration’s deliberations are Ron Kirk, who as U.S. trade
representative has had a leading role in pressing the White
House’s trade agenda, and Google Inc. Chairman  Eric Schmidt , a
member of the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and
Technology.  Schmidt has indicated that he is not interested in the job.  The administration hasn’t given a timeline on the selection
of a nominee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  