-- 
Indonesia Rupiah Unchanged as Economic Growth Expected to Ease

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r   a n d   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-05-04T08:38:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/indonesia-rupiah-unchanged-as-economic-growth-expected-to-ease.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah was unchanged ahead
of data that economists forecast will show the pace of economic
growth in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy is easing.  Government
bonds  fell.  A government report tomorrow will show a 6.56 percent rise
in first-quarter gross domestic product from a year earlier,
compared with a 6.89 percent gain in the three months through
December, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
Indonesia will keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged at
6.75 percent on May 12, according to all eight economists polled
by Bloomberg in a separate survey.  “Investors are a bit cautious ahead of the GDP data
tomorrow and what Bank Indonesia will do next week,” said
Joanna Tan, a Singapore-based regional economist at Forecast
Singapore Pte. “ Bank Indonesia  will probably continue with the
rate pause because of easing inflation last month. I think they
should hike because core inflation is still rising.”  The rupiah was at 8,553 per dollar as of 3:35 p.m. in
Jakarta, the same as yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 8,540 yesterday, the strongest level since
March 2004. The currency has rallied 4.9 percent this year, with
Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution saying last month a
stronger rupiah was helping to curb imported inflation.  Consumer prices gained 6.16 percent in April from a year
earlier, after increasing 6.65 percent in March, the  Central
Bureau of Statistics  said May 2. That’s less than the 6.4
percent median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
 Core inflation , which excludes food and fuel, was 4.62 percent
in April from a year earlier, compared with 4.45 percent in
March.  The central bank last raised its policy rate by 0.25
percentage point to 6.75 percent in February, the first increase
in more than two years.  The yield on Indonesia government’s benchmark 8.25 percent
bond due July 2021 rose two basis points to 7.75 percent today,
according to midday prices from the Inter-Dealer Market
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net 
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  