-- 
LinkedIn Chooses NYSE Over Nasdaq, Following Renren and Pandora

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-05-04T17:24:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/linkedin-chooses-nyse-over-nasdaq-following-renren-and-pandora.html
LinkedIn Corp., the largest
professional-networking site, filed to list its shares on the
 New York  Stock Exchange, becoming the latest technology company
to spurn the  Nasdaq  Stock Market.  LinkedIn has applied with the Big Board to list its stock
under the symbol LNKD, according to a filing today with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. In January, Mountain View,
California-based LinkedIn announced plans to raise as much as
$175 million in an initial public offering.  While the Nasdaq is home to most of the top technology
companies, including Microsoft Corp., Google Inc. and Intel
Corp., NYSE Euronext has bolstered its presence in Silicon
Valley to win more listings. Web-radio service Pandora Media
Inc. said in April that it will join the NYSE when it goes
public, as did flash-memory developer Fusion-io Inc. Renren
Inc.,  China ’s biggest social-networking site by page views,
started trading today on the NYSE.  “Nasdaq has focused much more on the technology sector,
but increasingly New York is ratcheting up its marketing for
IPOs,” said  Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of Tabb Group,
a New York-based financial markets research firm. “It’s
becoming very much a branding war between New York and Nasdaq.”  If Nasdaq OMX Group, parent of the Nasdaq Stock Market, has
its way, the companies will join forces rather than compete.
Nasdaq formalized a hostile bid for NYSE this week, trying to
circumvent NYSE Euronext directors, who have twice rejected the
proposal in favor of a bid from Deutsche Boerse AG.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  shareholders will vote on the Deutsche Boerse
deal on July 7. The bid is valued at 6.3 percent less than the
Nasdaq’s, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Nasdaq Listings  Nasdaq is still attracting its share of IPOs. RPX Corp., a
provider of patent-risk management services, started trading
today on the Nasdaq, following car-sharing company Zipcar Inc.
last month. Vacation-rental site HomeAway Inc. and travel search
provider Kayak Software Corp. announced plans to go public on
the Nasdaq.  The Big Board has been more competitive since the 2007
purchase of Euronext NV, operator of Europe’s second-largest
derivatives market. That came a year after the NYSE transformed
from a member-owned institution to a publicly traded company.  “We weren’t even in the game a little while ago,” said
 Doug Chu , a senior vice president at NYSE Euronext and head of
the company’s  Palo Alto , California, office. “People see the
value and now that they have a choice, it’s become almost the
fashionable thing to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 