-- 
Innkeepers, Caribe, Inverness, Cordia, Vitro: Bankruptcy

-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 
2011-05-04T13:34:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/innkeepers-caribe-inverness-cordia-vitro-wamu-berkline-bankruptcy.html
A joint venture between Cerberus
Capital Management LP and  Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT)  won this week’s
auction for 64 of the 72 hotel properties owned by  Innkeepers
USA Trust .  Their offer was about $1.13 billion, according to the
buyers’ statement. Chatham won yesterday’s auction for five
other properties with a bid of more than $190 million, according
to a person with knowledge of the auction. For other Bloomberg
coverage, click here.  The auction, which began May 2, opened with an offer for 65
hotels from Lehman Ali Inc. and Five Mile Capital Partners LLC.
Lehman Ali, a non-bankrupt subsidiary of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., has $238 million in floating-rate mortgages on 20
of the properties. Had the Lehman unit and Five Mile won the
auction, they were to acquire the properties through
confirmation of a Chapter 11 plan.  With other buyers prevailing, it won’t be known until
details are made public whether the Cerberus-Chatham acquisition
will be through a plan or by a sale before plan confirmation.  It is also as yet unclear whether Chatham will have smooth
sailing in purchasing the other five properties, given possible
opposition from Innkeepers’ preferred shareholders. An argument
could be made that the five weren’t properly up for auction
yesterday.  Midland Loan Services Inc. is the servicer for $825 million
of fixed-rate mortgage debt on 45 of the 72 properties. Under
the plan with Lehman Ali and Five Mile, Midland was to have a 75
percent recovery from $622.5 million in new mortgages on revised
terms. The improvement in Midland’s recovery won’t become known
until details of the auction are released.  From the outset of the Innkeepers Chapter 11 case, Midland
insisted on an auction, which Innkeepers didn’t originally
contemplate holding.  The plan was intended to give Lehman Ali a 91 percent
recovery on its mortgages. The improvement, if any, in Lehman
Ali’s recovery likewise isn’t publicly known yet. For details on
the prior Lehman Ali-Five Mile plan covering 65 hotels, click
here for the March 14 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  A hearing is currently scheduled on May 10 for approval of
a disclosure statement approving Innkeepers’ Chapter 11 plan.
The confirmation hearing for approval of the plan is tentatively
set for June 23.  Innkeepers, based in Palm Beach,  Florida , has 72 extended-
stay and limited-service properties with 10,000 rooms in 20
states.  Apollo Investment Corp. (AINV)  acquired the company in July
2007 in a $1.35 billion transaction. The Innkeepers Chapter 11
petition filed in July listed assets of $1.5 billion against
debt totaling $1.52 billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  New Filings  Caribe Media Files Facing Fraudulent Transfer Claims  Yellow-pages publisher Caribe Media Inc. and affiliates
until yesterday were non-bankrupt subsidiaries of Local Insight
Regatta Holdings Inc., part of a group of publishers that filed
under Chapter 11 in November.  Caribe and affiliates sought Chapter 11 relief yesterday in
 Delaware  at the demand of senior secured bondholders, the
company said in  bankruptcy court  papers. The bondholders
insisted on a filing by May 3 to preserve the ability to sue for
the recovery of $44.2 million in dividends that Caribe paid to
Local Insight between May 2009 and September 2010.  The bondholders already filed proofs of claim based on the
dividends they contend represented fraudulent transfers.  Caribe violated covenants on the senior bonds in the third
quarter of 2010. The debt was accelerated in April and access to
the revolving credit was cut off.  Debt includes $127 million on the senior bonds and $57
million on senior subordinate notes. Cantor Fitzgerald
Securities is the agent for the senior bondholders. WACS Capital
Partners IV LP holds the subordinated notes, court papers say.  Caribe, which publishes yellow page directories in  Puerto
Rico  and the Dominican Republic, said it has no known unsecured
debt. Just in case, the company is asking the bankruptcy court
for the ability to pay any pre-bankruptcy unsecured claims
without awaiting confirmation of a Chapter 11 plan.  Caribe was acquired by Local Insight in 2006 in a
transaction that gave rise to the $184 million in debt that is
the subject of the Chapter 11 case.  Local Insight filed its Chapter 11 petition in November
after learning that the lenders failed to file a financing
statement to perfect liens on collateral securing the loan. The
bankruptcy occurred soon enough that the company may be able to
void the security interest as a preference. The lenders are owed
$337 million.  Local Insight publishes 870 directories for 115 phone
companies. Debt on the Regatta Holdings companies includes a
secured $311 million  term loan  and a $26 million revolving
credit. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA is agent for the lenders. In
addition, $221 million is owing on senior subordinated notes.  At the Local Insight line of companies there are $258
million in bridge loans now owing to venture capital investor
Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, the controlling shareholder.
The Local Insight companies owe another $214 million on two
issues of subordinated notes.  Trade suppliers are owed $8 million, according to court
papers.  The Caribe case is In re Caribe Media Inc., 11-11387, and
The Local Insight case is In re Local Insight Media Holdings
Inc., 10-13677, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Sun Capital’s Furniture Maker Berkline to Liquidate  Berkline/BenchCraft Holdings LLC, the manufacturer of
 Berkline  reclining sofas, filed in Delaware to liquidate in
Chapter 11.  The company is more than 90 percent owned by private-equity
investor Sun Capital Partners Inc. Berkline, based in
Morristown,  Tennessee , blamed its business failure on the
recession and the resulting “steep decline” in sales.
Management decided to liquidate in late March, the company said
in its May 2 filing.  In April, Hilco Merchant Resources LLC beat five other
liquidators at an auction for the right to sell the inventory.  Hilco guarantees a recovery of no less than $2.78 million.
Once sales cover the guarantee, Hilco will take the next
$500,000 plus expenses of the sale. Additional recoveries are
split, with Berkline receiving 80 percent and Hilco keeping 20
percent.  Wells Fargo Capital Finance LLC is the first-lien lender
owed $4.29 million. The $140 million second lien has an
affiliate of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as syndication agent.
There are $12.5 million in unsecured subordinated notes, mostly
held by affiliates of Boca Raton, Florida-based Sun Capital.  The case is In re Berkline/BenchCraft Holdings LLC, 11-11-
11369, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Cordia Communications Files to Sell CLEC Business  Cordia Communications Inc. filed for Chapter 11 protection
on May 1 in  Orlando , Florida, intending to sell its business as
a competitive local exchange carrier.  The filing was made to meet a deadline set by  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and the business will be sold through
auction and sale procedures, according to court papers. No buyer
is yet under contract.  Cordia, based in Winter Garden, Florida, generates $35
million in annual revenue in 27 states.  There are $16.9 million in priority tax claims and about
$6.6 million in unsecured claims. The company doesn’t believe
there are any valid secured claims. Court papers don’t put a
value on the assets.  The case is In re Cordia Communications Inc., 11-06493,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida (Orlando).  Robinson’s Movie Distributor Inverness Files Chapter 15  Movie distributor Inverness Distribution Ltd. filed a
petition for Chapter 15 protection in New York yesterday, owing
$74.1 million to a group of European banks.  The company was set up to distribute movies outside the
U.S. and  Canada  that were produced by Morgan Creek Productions
Inc., according to Inverness’s Bermudian liquidators. “Ace
Ventura: Pet Detective” is one of Morgan Creek’s movies.  The company went into provisional liquidation in January in
Bermuda, where the company was registered. The liquidators say
Inverness’s only office was in Bermuda. They don’t say where
executives conducted the company’s business.  Inverness was managed by James Robinson, the company’s sole
shareholder and the founder and chief executive officer of
Morgan Creek, the liquidators said in court papers.  The liquidators said they were informed by the lenders that
they have reason to suspect that assets of Inverness were “used
to benefit other entities affiliated with Robinson.”  Societe Generale  is agent for the lenders. The bank debt
was in default before the insolvency proceedings began in
Bermuda.  Chapter 15 isn’t a full-blown reorganization like Chapter
11. If the bankruptcy judge in New York decides that Bermuda is
home to the “foreign main proceeding,” the U.S. court will
allow the foreign court to collect the assets, adjudicate claims
and make distributions to creditors.  Chapter 15 gives the liquidators the ability to stop
creditor actions in the U.S. and collect assets in this country.
The injunction against creditor actions isn’t automatic in
Chapter 15. The liquidators will hold a hearing where they can
ask for preliminary relief, such as an injunction against
creditor suits.  The case is In re Inverness Distribution Ltd., 11-12106,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Updates  Sun Capital’s Arch Aluminum Bids for U.S. Vitro Business  A Sun Capital Partners Inc. affiliate bid $45 million for
U.S. units of Vitro SAB, topping an existing offer even before a
bankruptcy judge approved procedures to auction the companies.  Sun Capital, the Boca Raton, Florida-based owner of Vitro
rival Arch Aluminum & Glass Co., is familiar with bankruptcy
sales. More than a dozen of the private-equity investor’s
companies have filed for Chapter 11 protection since January
2006 and it bought Arch Aluminum out of bankruptcy in January
2010 for $53.8 million.  Sun Capital is offering $1 million more than the existing
offer of $44 million from an affiliate of Grey Mountain Partners
LLC, based in Boulder,  Colorado . In addition, Sun Capital is
willing to be the so-called stalking horse without being
promised a breakup fee if outbid at auction.  Grey Mountain’s contract calls for a 3 percent breakup fee
that amounts to $1.3 million.  In a filing yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Fort
Worth ,  Texas , Sun Capital said that Vitro’s managers,
“potentially perceiving new employment opportunities with a
financial buyer like Grey Mountain,” excluded Arch Aluminum
from the sale process until last month.  A May 6 hearing is scheduled in bankruptcy court where the
judge will decide whether Arch Aluminum or Grey Mountain should
be the stalking horse with the first bid at auction.  Vitro’s U.S. subsidiaries are in Chapter 11 in response to
involuntary bankruptcy petitions filed in November by holders of
defaulted notes. When Vitro put the four U.S. subsidiaries into
Chapter 11 on April 6, it immediately filed a motion proposing a
sale to Grey Mountain.  The Vitro parent is reorganizing in  Mexico . It is also the
subject of a Chapter 15 proceeding in New York where it is
asking a U.S. judge to enforce whatever reorganization a judge
in Mexico approves. Bondholders have a motion pending to
transfer the New York case to Texas, a move Vitro opposes.  A group holding more than 60 percent of Vitro’s $1.2
billion in defaulted bonds is opposing the Mexican
reorganization. They say it would be a misuse of Chapter 15
because Vitro intends to cram down a plan on noteholders by
using votes arising from $1.9 billion in inter-company claims.  In the Mexican reorganization, Vitro is offering
noteholders what it said would be a recovery of as much as 73
percent by exchanging existing debt for cash, new debt and
convertible bonds. The bondholders claim Vitro is worth enough
to pay them in full.  For a summary of Vitro’s reorganization and the lawsuits
between Vitro and the noteholders, click here for the Dec. 15
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Chapter 11 case in Texas is In re Vitro Asset Corp.,
11-32600, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas
(Fort Worth). The Chapter 15 case in New York is In re Vitro
SAB, 11-11754, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  WaMu Wins Approval to Pay $13 Million to Settle Class Suit  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  received authority this week to pay
$13 million to settle a class action on behalf of individuals
who allegedly were charged improper fees when they paid off home
loans.  WaMu said it decided to settle even though it believed the
suit to be “entirely without merit.” For details on the suit
that began in 2005, click here for the April 5 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Creditors are once again voting on WaMu’s modified
reorganization plan. Voting ends May 13. The confirmation
hearing for approval of the plan is set for June 6.  The judge wrote a 109-page opinion on Jan. 7 explaining why
she couldn’t confirm a prior version of the plan. For details on
the revised plan, click here for the Feb. 14 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. For details on WaMu’s last-minute changes in
the disclosure, click here for the March 21 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report. For details on the opinion denying confirmation of the
prior plan, click here for the Jan. 10 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  The WaMu holding company filed under Chapter 11 in
September 2008, one day after the bank subsidiary was taken
over. The bank, once the sixth-largest depository and credit-
card issuer in the U.S., was the largest to fail in the
country’s history. The holding company filed formal lists of
assets and debt showing property with a total value of $4.49
billion against liabilities of $7.83 billion.  The holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Washington
Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Alabama  Aircraft Sets June 6 Auction for Business  Alabama Aircraft Industries Inc. (AAII) , a provider of scheduled
 maintenance  for U.S. military aircraft, will sell the business
at auction on June 6.  Under procedures approved yesterday by the bankruptcy court
in Delaware, bids are due initially by June 2. AAI must disclose
the winner of the auction by June 7, in advance of a June 13
hearing for approval of the sale.  No buyer is yet under contract. A sale is necessary because
AAI was unable to arrange financing.  At yesterday’s hearing, the judge also approved a so-called
distress termination of the  pension plan  that is under-funded by
$31.4 million. The bankruptcy judge already held a trial on
termination of the existing union contract. The parties are
awaiting a decision.  Previously known as Pemco Aeroplex Inc., AAI operates under
a long-term lease at the Birmingham International Airport in
Alabama. It chiefly maintains and repairs transport, tanker and
patrol aircraft.  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. was listed as having the
largest unsecured claim at $68.5 million. A fund affiliated with
Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC is owed $2.5 million on a note.
Assets were valued at more than $32 million in September,
according to a court paper.  The case is In re Alabama Aircraft Industries Inc., 11-
10452, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Geothermal Plant Owner Raser Gets Interim Loan Approval  Raser Technologies Inc. (RZTI) , the owner of a six-megawatt
geothermal electric generating plan in  Utah , filed a Chapter 11
petition on April 29 in Delaware and received interim approval
yesterday for a $750,000 loan.  At the final financing hearing on May 19, Raser aims for
approval of the entire $8.75 million loan package, from which $6
million will be used to pay off existing debt.  Before the Chapter 11 filing, Raser negotiated terms for a
reorganization where Linden Advisors LP and Tenor Capital
Management LP will acquire all the new stock. Linden and Tenor
are supplying the financing. They own about half the $57.2
million currently owing on 8 percent convertible senior
unsecured notes, according to a bankruptcy court filing.  In addition to the one plant, Raser has interests in
geothermal rights for seven projects in four western states
covering 270,000 acres, plus rights in another 100,000 acres in
 Indonesia .  The petition listed assets of $41.8 million and debt
totaling $107.8 million. The company had revenue of $4.25
million in 2010, resulting in a $71.9 million operating loss.
The net loss last year was $101.8 million.  Liabilities of the Provo, Utah-based company include a
$10.3 million secured debt on the plant. A Merrill Lynch & Co. 
affiliate has a $22.6 million unsecured debt arising from
financing for the plant.  The contemplated plan calls for Linden and Tenor to buy the
company for $19.8 million, composed of $2.5 million cash and
exchange for debt.  The case is Raser Technologies Inc., 11-11315, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Charlie Brown’s Seeks Restitution from Former Execs  The former operator of  Charlie Brown’s Steakhouse 
restaurants is pursuing information to enhance the chance it can
recover some of the criminal restitution payment to be made by
two former corporate executives.  In bankruptcy court papers filed this week, Charlie Brown’s
describes how former Chief Executive Officer Russell D’Anton and
former Vice President Michael Mulligan were charged by federal
prosecutors in a criminal information last year with receiving
kickbacks from suppliers.  In 2009, D’Anton agreed to pay the company $275,000 in
return for dropping a lawsuit. The government recently told the
federal district judge in the criminal action that the two
should made criminal restitution of about $1 million.  Charlie Brown’s wants the bankruptcy court to force the two
former executives to turn over information useful in having the
district court award the company recoveries from restitution
payments. The company and the two individuals are disputing
whether the 2009 settlement barred the ability to collect
restitution.  The 20 Charlie Brown’s locations were sold for $9.5
million. The 12 Bugaboo Creek stores fetched $10 million. The
seven The Office Restaurants generated $4.68 million.  Charlie Brown’s, the official creditors’ committee and the
principal lender have an agreement in principle giving part of
the sale proceeds to unsecured creditors. Financing for the
Chapter 11 case required quick sales. Forty-seven stores were
closed before the Chapter 11 filing in November.  At the outset of the Chapter 11 case, the lenders were owed
$70.2 million. In addition, debt at the beginning of the case
included $14 million owing on second-lien senior subordinated
notes and $30 million on a mezzanine loan. The company is
controlled by Trimaran Capital Partners.  The senior secured lenders are Ableco Finance LLC, Wells
Fargo Capital Finance Inc. and Ally Commercial Finance LLC.  The case is CB Holding Corp., 10-13683, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Brundage-Bone Concrete Pumping Confirms Reorganization Plan  Brundage-Bone Concrete Pumping Inc.  and JLS Concrete
Pumping Inc., which began reorganization in January 2010 in
their hometown of Denver, are on the cusp of emerging from
Chapter 11 after a bankruptcy judge signed an order confirming
the exit plan on May 2.  Unlike most smaller companies in bankruptcy, the Brundage-
Bone Chapter 11 case was a reorganization, not a liquidation.
Discussions with equipment lenders allowed the company to
renegotiate financing and retain some vehicles to remain in
business.  Unsecured creditors are to receive notes paying 5.4 percent
of their claims.  The Chapter 11 experience didn’t come without cost. The
company paid $2.9 million in counsel fees by November, not
including almost $1 million in unpaid fees, according to the
disclosure statement.  The company’s Chapter 11 petition listed assets of $326
million against debt totaling $230 million. At the outset, there
were 800 concrete pumps.  The bankruptcy filing resulted from a decline in
construction. Revenue fell to $120 million in fiscal 2009 from
$200 million in fiscal 2008.  The case is Brundage-Bone Concrete Pumping Inc., 10-10758,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  Tubo Says Plan Near, Wants Exclusivity Extended  Tubo de Pasteje SA and its Cambridge-Lee Holdings Inc. unit
said negotiations on a Chapter 11 plan “are nearing
completion” as they filed a sixth motion for an extension of
the exclusive right to propose a reorganization plan.  A consensual plan likely will be filed “soon,” the
companies said. If approved by the bankruptcy court in Delaware
at a May 25 hearing, the new deadline will be June 8.  Tubo is a subsidiary of Mexico City-based Industrias Unidas
SA. IUSA said in February it had an agreement in principle with
creditors for a $371 million debt swap. Tubo’s Chapter 11 filing
in December 2009 followed a payment default the preceding month
on $200 million in 11.5 percent senior notes due 2016.  IUSA manufactures copper and electrical products.
Cambridge-Lee, the U.S. subsidiary, is based in Reading,
 Pennsylvania . IUSA is the issuer of notes secured by a pledge of
Cambridge-Lee stock.  The case is In re Tubo De Pasteje SA de CV, 09-14353, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Sexy Hair Chapter 11 Plan Confirmed Inside Five Months  Sexy Hair Concepts LLC , a distributor and marketer of hair-
care products, filed under Chapter 11 in December and emerged
from reorganization last week, owned by a private-equity
investor.  The investor was identified in a creditor’s court filing as
a company affiliated with TSG Consumer Partners and existing
lenders.  For $43 million, the investor took the new stock and
enabled the payment of $28 million in secured debt. Another $35
million in secured claims were assumed. Trade suppliers were
paid in full, though other general unsecured creditors weren’t.  Sexy Hair, based in Chatsworth,  California , was acquired in
April 2008 by a group led by private-equity investor Thoma Bravo
LLC, which owned a 37 percent stake. In the Chapter 11 case,
Sexy Hair was represented by the Los Angeles law firm  Peitzman,
Weg & Kempinsky LLP .  Upon filing, the company said that debt totaled $88.7
million. It included $62.6 million owed to secured lenders, with
 Bank of Montreal (BMO)  as agent. Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Co., owed $24 million on a subordinated unsecured note, was an
8.2 percent owner.  Before the Chapter 11 filing, lenders exercised their
rights as secured creditors to install a new board of directors
and a chief restructuring officer, court papers said.  The case is Ecoly International Inc., 10-25919, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Woodland
Hills).  Ultimate Electronics Formally Converted to Chapter 7  Ultimate Electronics ’ Chapter 11 reorganization was
officially converted to a liquidation in Chapter 7, where a
trustee will be appointed to dispose of the remaining assets and
make distributions to creditors.  Yesterday’s conversion became the only option when the
store liquidation was completed and the secured lender, General
Electric Capital Corp., terminated the right to use cash. The
store liquidations began shortly after the Chapter 11 filing in
January because of a lack of financing. There were 46 stores.  Before conversion, a hearing was set for May 26 to approve
the sale of trademarks, copyrights, websites and other
intellectual property. Bids are due by May 23.  Controlled by Mark J. Wattles and based in Thornton,
Colorado, Ultimate owed $64.8 million to GECC when the Chapter
11 case began. Assets at the time included $2 million in
accounts receivable, $98 million in inventory and $12.8 million
in real estate. The assets are collateral for GECC.  Wattles is president of Wattles Capital Management LLC,
which owns 71 percent of Ultimate. He was chairman and founder
of Hollywood Entertainment Corp., which was acquired by and
later liquidated in Chapter 11 as part of Movie Gallery Inc.  Hewlett-Packard Co. owns 25 percent of Ultimate.  The case is In re Ultimate Acquisition Partners LP, 11-
10245, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Downgrade  Blackstone’s Apria Healthcare Demoted to B1 by Moody’s  Apria Healthcare Group Inc., a provider of home medical
equipment, respiratory and infusion therapies, saw its corporate
rating lowered one notch yesterday to B1 by Moody’s Investors
Service.  Apria was acquired in October 2008 by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
in a $1.57 billion transaction.  The $696.1 million in senior secured Series A-1 notes due
2014 were downgraded by one click to Ba3. The $317.5 million of
senior secured Series A-2 notes due 2014 also slipped one grade,
to B3.  The Lake Forest, California-based company reported
operating income of $104.5 million in 2010 on revenue of $2.08
billion. The net loss for the year was $17.4 million after
interest expense of $130.8 million.  In 2009, the net loss was $3.8 million. For the 10 months
just before the acquisition, net income was $56.5 million.  Obituary  Thomas H. Kingsmill, Former  New Orleans  Bankruptcy Judge, Dies  Thomas Hartley Kingsmill, a U.S. bankruptcy judge in New
Orleans from 1971 until 2003, died on May 1, the New Orleans
Times-Picayune reported. He was 89.  When Kingsmill first took to the bench, bankruptcy judges
were called bankruptcy referees. The word referee was used in
the sense that bankruptcy cases were referred to them by
district courts.  Kingsmill, a past president of the National Conference of
Bankruptcy Judges, received his undergraduate and law degrees
from Loyola University.  Daily Podcast  Cramdown, Lehman Plan, Two Investment Cases: Bankruptcy Audio  The Bloomberg bankruptcy podcast analyzes an important case
at the outer limits of the cramdown process and looks at factors
affecting the possibility of reversal on appeal. Bloomberg Law’s
Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle discuss a state court opinion from Rhode Island
explaining why states aren’t helpless in dealing with financial
problems if they can’t pay their bills. The podcast looks at the
importance of opposition by a Dutch bankruptcy trustee to the
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  Chapter 11 plan. The podcast
closes with a discussion of two new Chapter 11 cases. One
presents the possibility of utilizing tax losses while the other
represents an investment opportunity for someone interested in
geothermal power projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  