-- 
ICE Strategy Focused on Getting NYSE Holders to Pressure Board on Takeover

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-05-04T16:41:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/intercontinental-nyse-tender-strategy-takes-offer-straight-to-shareholders.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. will
circumvent a barrier to its bid for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  by appealing
to shareholders who can pressure their board to waive an
ownership cap, said ICE Chief Executive Officer Jeff Sprecher.  “Ultimately that board is accountable to the shareholders
next year,” Sprecher said in a telephone interview today.
“Most directors don’t want to be fired or defend shareholder
litigation outside the boardroom.”  Intercontinental and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  approved a
direct offer to acquire NYSE Euronext on May 2, formalizing
their hostile bid for the biggest U.S. stock-exchange operator
and taking it to shareholders. NYSE’s bylaws, mandated by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, prevent investors from
accumulating stakes of 20 percent or more in the company without
board approval, limiting the usefulness of a tender offer.  “We will get a shareholder list and we will be able to put
the facts of our deal on the table,” Sprecher said on a
conference call today after ICE announced its quarterly results.  NYSE stock investors of record as of May 9 are eligible to
vote on a competing merger offer from  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ,
Sprecher said. NYSE management hadn’t previously disclosed the
date, he said. “I suspect if a vote was held for the other
offer today it would fail,” Sprecher said.  Circumventing Directors  Eric Ryan , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, confirmed the
timing. Ryan declined to comment on NYSE’s response to
Intercontinental and Nasdaq.  The tender offer, designed to circumvent NYSE Euronext
directors who have twice rejected the proposal, carries the same
price as the original $11.3 billion bid announced April 1 by
Nasdaq and Intercontinental. The New York Stock Exchange owner
has said it prefers the February merger agreement with Deutsche
Boerse, valued at about $9.53 billion.  Deutsche Boerse said in a May 2 filing with the SEC that it
won’t increase its bid for NYSE Euronext, in which each NYSE
Euronext share will be exchanged for 0.47 share of a new holding
company.  Deutsche Boerse  equity is being swapped 1-for-1.  Any other measures to “enhance the financial position” of
either shareholder group would have to get agreement from both
sides, according to the document.  The two rejections and subsequent statements by NYSE
management have misled shareholders, Sprecher said. “Much of it
is inaccurate,” he said on the conference call. “We believe
the board is the only obstacle to shareholders receiving a
better deal.”  ‘Good Idea’  Sprecher’s offer earlier this year capped 10 years of
trying to woo NYSE’s Liffe futures market, he said today. From
2001 onward, he met several times with NYSE executives to
propose a merger of his company and the London exchange where
futures on  interest rates , bonds and equity indexes trade. Under
his plan, Intercontinental would have managed the merged
exchange, which would have been jointly owned.  “I was never able to convince any of the various CEOs who
oversaw the parent company over the years that that was a good
idea,” he said.  Intercontinental would expand its European products through
an acquisition of NYSE Euronext’s derivatives exchanges.
Intercontinental specializes in energy and commodities trading,
with its only offering in financial products coming from
currencies and equity indexes at its New York-based ICE Futures
U.S. exchange.  First-Quarter Profit  The deal would give Intercontinental trading in Euribor
three-month futures. NYSE Liffe U.K.’s Euribor future was the
fourth-largest interest-rate future in the world last year,
according to the  Futures Industry Association , a trade and
lobbying group. Eurodollars traded at Chicago-based CME Group
Inc., the world’s largest futures market, were the most-actively
bought and sold interest-rate future in 2010, according to FIA.  Intercontinental’s first-quarter profit beat analyst
estimates today on lowered costs and higher revenue. Net income
climbed to $128.9 million, or $1.74 a share, from $101.2
million, or $1.36, a year earlier, the company said. Profit
adjusted for acquisition-related costs was $1.77 a share. On
that basis, it was forecast to earn $1.69 per share, according
to the average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 