-- 
Intel Develops ‘3-D’ Chipmaking Approach in Bid to Widen Lead Over Rivals

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-05-04T20:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/intel-develops-3-d-chipmaking-approach-in-bid-to-widen-lead-over-rivals.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, unveiled a processor made with a “3-D”
manufacturing technique that increases chip performance as much
as 37 percent while using less power.  The new Ivy Bridge processor will be in production by the
end of this year,  Santa Clara , California-based Intel said today
in a statement. The chip is the first to rely on 3-D tri-gate
transistors, an approach almost 10 years in the making that
squeezes 22-nanometer circuits onto a piece of silicon.  “This breakthrough will extend Intel’s lead even further
over the rest of the semiconductor industry,” Intel Senior
Fellow Mark Bohr said in the statement. “The low-voltage and
low-power benefits far exceed what we typically see from one
process generation to the next.”  While mainly designed for personal computers, the new
technology could help Intel get its processors into phones and
other battery-powered devices because it uses less power. Though
eight out of every 10 PCs sold are based on Intel processors,
there are no phones on sale that feature its designs. The new
chips could draw half the power of current models when
processing at the same speed, saving battery life.  The more transistors on a  chip , the more information it can
handle. Packing transistors closer together makes processors
more powerful, cheaper or more power-efficient, depending on the
designer’s priorities.  Vertical Thinking  Until now, horizontally  shrinking  the line widths of
transistor circuits -- and the wires that link them together --
has been the way to increase their density. The 3-D approach
adds a vertical element, helping fit more of them on the chip
and improving their responsiveness, Intel said. The new lines
are 22 nanometers, compared with 32 nanometers with the previous
generation of chips. A nanometer is a billionth of a meter.  The new technology would put Intel a generation ahead of
rivals. Its main competitor in computer processors, Advanced
Micro Devices Inc., is rolling out its first 32-nanometer
processors this quarter.  Intel rose 45 cents to $23.50 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have gained 12 percent this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  