-- 
Iranian Court May Delay Trial of Three Americans, Lawyer Says

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-05-04T09:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/iranian-court-may-delay-trial-of-three-americans-lawyer-says.html
An Iranian court trying three
Americans charged with espionage and illegal entry into  Iran  may
delay a hearing scheduled for May 11 because of the absence of
one of the accused, their lawyer said.  Masoud Shafiei said the court in Tehran requested  Sarah
Shourd , who left Iran in September 2010 after being released on
bail of $500,000, to be present at the hearing.  Her absence “may be used as a pretext for the session to
be postponed,” Shafiei said today in a telephone interview from
Tehran. Shourd, to whom he spoke to yesterday, may not be able
to return to Tehran for the hearing “due to health reasons,”
he said.  Josh Fattal  and  Shane Bauer  were detained with Shourd in
July 2009 for illegally crossing into Iran from  Iraqi Kurdistan .
The U.S. government has said the trio mistakenly wandered across
the border during a hiking trip.  Shourd was summoned to return for the trial’s first
hearing, which was held on Feb. 6. All three, including Shourd
who was tried in absentia, entered pleas of not guilty, Shafiei
said at the time.  Fattal and Bauer remain in custody, while Iran’s Judiciary
has said Shourd was released because of “her illness.” Shourd
suffered from depression and told her mother that she had
discovered a lump in her breast, according to a report published
one month prior to her release on  freethehikers.org , a website
set up to help gain the Americans’ freedom.  The continued detention of the two men has increased
tension between Iran and the U.S., which accuses the Persian
Gulf country of seeking to build atomic weapons under the cover
of its nuclear program. Iran rejects the claim and says it needs
the technology to secure energy for its growing population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 