-- 
Guardiola Leads Barcelona Into Champions League Final as Mourinho Sits Out

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-04T00:05:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/josep-guardiola-leads-barcelona-past-real-madrid-to-champions-league-final.html
Coach Josep Guardiola led the
celebrations after Barcelona beat archrival Real  Madrid  to a
place in the Champions League final.  Barcelona advanced 3-1 over the two-game semifinal after
last night’s 1-1 draw in front of 95,701 fans at Camp Nou
stadium.  Pedro Rodriguez  scored for Barcelona before Marcelo
tied it.  Guardiola’s team will play  Manchester United  or Schalke for
the trophy at London’s Wembley Stadium on May 28. Players
including FIFA World Player of the Year Lionel Messi and Spanish
World Cup winners Xavi Hernandez and  Andres Iniesta  are seeking
Barca’s third elite European soccer title since 2006.  “We’ve had great successes, a lot of titles and they still
want more,” Guardiola said in a news conference. “I’m really
proud of them.”  Guardiola, wearing a black suit, and his team and officials
locked arms and danced around the center circle to celebrate
reaching the final.  The players also tossed teammate  Eric Abidal  in the air to
celebrate. The France defender entered as a last-minute
substitute, six weeks after having surgery on a tumor on his
liver.  Last night’s game ended a series of four matches between
Barcelona and Real Madrid that started April 16. The teams drew
1-1 in the Spanish league before Real won 1-0 in the Spanish Cup
final ahead of this two-game semifinal.  “These last 20 days have been really hard, a lot of
tension,” Guardiola said.  ‘Showed Our Face’  As steady rain soaked fans and water-logged parts of the
field last night, Pedro made it 1-0 after 53 minutes. He
collected a defense-splitting pass by Andres Iniesta on the edge
of the penalty area and fired in.  Marcelo leveled 10 minutes later, shooting in from Angel di
Maria’s pass after the Argentine’s earlier shot had bounced back
off the post.  “The team showed what it’s made off,” Real Madrid
assistant coach Aitor Karanka told reporters. “Even in adverse
conditions we showed our face.”  Karanka took charge of Real last night because coach  Jose Mourinho  was suspended.  Mourinho was sent to the stands for ironically applauding
the decision to eject Pepe in last week’s opening game at
Santiago Bernabeu stadium and later suggested Barcelona received
favoritism. European soccer’s ruling body UEFA is scheduled to
hold a hearing into Mourinho’s conduct and other disciplinary
matters from that game on May 6.  Casillas Saves  Barcelona withstood early pressure from Real last night
before dominating. Real goalkeeper Iker Casillas made three
saves in six minutes to keep the game scoreless.  “We have to lift our heads and feel proud of what we did
here,” Casillas told reporters. “We defended our colors and
our club and we will go back to Madrid safe in the knowledge
that we gave it our all.”  Casillas dived to parry Messi’s shot after 30 minutes. He
pushed out a strike by  David Villa  after Messi had dispossessed
Lassana Diarra and dribbled from the halfway line. He then saved
again from Messi and Pedro went close with another shot.  Real’s best chance of the first half came on a
counterattack by Cristiano Ronaldo. His cross, just out of reach
of teammate Di Maria, was snatched by Barcelona goalkeeper
Victor Valdes in the penalty box.  Gonzalo Higuain had a goal ruled out a minute after half
time when Ronaldo was judged to have fouled  Javier Mascherano  in
the build-up to the shot.  Yellow Cards  Real defender  Ricardo Carvalho  got a yellow card from
Belgian referee Frank de Bleeckere for fouling Messi with a
foot-first challenge after 12 minutes and avoided a red card
even after two similar fouls on the Argentine before the end of
the first half.  Real had a player ejected in each of its previous four
games against Barcelona and racked up five yellow cards last
night to the host’s one.  Barcelona won the first of its three European titles at
Wembley in 1992 by beating Italy’s Sampdoria 1-0 when Guardiola
was a midfielder on the squad. The  London  stadium was reopened
in 2007 after a redesign.  “It would be better if we could go to the old Wembley with
the charisma it had,” Guardiola said. “But we’ll back all the
same.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff at the Camp Nou Stadium, Barcelona at   aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 