-- 
K1 Funds Weren’t Set Up to Operate as a Ponzi Scheme, Founder Kiener Says

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-05-04T14:33:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/k1-hedge-funds-weren-t-set-up-as-ponzi-scheme-founder-kiener-tells-court.html
K1 Group founder Helmut Kiener,
accused of defrauding investors of 345 million euros ($513
million), told a court his funds weren’t set up from the
beginning to operate as a  Ponzi scheme .  In the second part of his testimony at his fraud trial in
Wuerzburg, Germany, Kiener today denied some of the charges.
Banks that gave him money, including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and BNP
Paribas SA, had to approve his investment proposals and the
funds in which he invested, Kiener said.  “Barclays and BNP could have protested against the
investment had they really been interested in the investment
strategy,” Kiener said in the statement read by his lawyers.
“To the extent they didn’t ask questions about particular funds
I chose, I didn’t violate the investment agreements.”  Kiener was arrested in 2009 as part of an international
probe that included authorities in the U.S. and  Germany .
Barclays and BNP Paribas lost a combined 223 million euros in
his scam, while private investors lost about 122 million euros,
prosecutors said. In his first statement at trial last month
Kiener confessed to using new investors’ money to make up for
losses in the wake of the financial crisis and to having
manipulated some account statements.  K1 Invest Ltd. and K1 Global Ltd. were the two main funds
he operated and which took the losses that prompted the trial.  Forging Statements  Kiener also testified today that he began forging account
statements for K1 Invest immediately after it was set up. When
he was shown by the court flaws in the numbering of forged
statements which could have alerted the recipients to the fraud,
Kiener said no one ever noticed or asked him about them.  “I was very confident about my actions and was sure I
could mend any issues if anyone had ever frowned upon anything
in the statements,” he said. “Had someone asked about missing
movements in the account, I would have delivered a statement
that provided these movements.”  Kiener halted his Germany-based operations after the
national regulator Bafin investigated them in 2001. He bought a
company in the British Virgin Islands which had Bafin operating
clearance and renamed it K1 Global Ltd., he told the judges.  A year later he set up K1 Invest Ltd., in the Virgin
Islands, Kiener said.  Kiener said today that prosecutors also wrongfully claim
that real estate and aircraft he acquired with investor money
was for personal use only, adding he planned to charter the
aircraft and use the real estate commercially.  Simon Eaton, a Barclays Capital spokesman, declined to
comment.  A  BNP Paribas (BNP)  spokesman who refused to be identified citing
bank policy, declined to comment on Kiener’s assertions because
the case is ongoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Wuerzburg via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  