-- 
K1’s Kiener, Lloyds Sales, Focus DIY, Keydata Probe: European Bankruptcy

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-04T16:28:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/k1-s-kiener-lloyds-sales-focus-diy-keydata-probe-european-bankruptcy.html
K1 Group founder Helmut Kiener,
accused of defrauding investors of 345 million euros ($513
million), told a court his funds, now in administration, weren’t
set up from the beginning to operate as a  Ponzi scheme .  In the second part of his testimony at his fraud trial in
Wuerzburg,  Germany , Kiener denied some of the charges. Banks
that gave him money, including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and BNP Paribas SA,
had to approve his investment proposals and the funds in which
he invested, Kiener said.  “Barclays and BNP could have protested against the
investment had they really been interested in the investment
strategy,” Kiener said in the statement read by his lawyers.
“To the extent they didn’t ask questions about particular funds
I chose, I didn’t violate the investment agreements.”  Kiener was arrested in 2009 as part of an international
probe that included authorities in the U.S. and Germany.
Barclays and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  lost a combined 223 million euros in
his scam, while private investors lost about 122 million euros,
prosecutors said. In his first statement at trial last month
Kiener confessed to using new investors’ money to make up for
losses in the wake of the financial crisis and to having
manipulated some account statements.  Portugal  to Sell Failed Bank BPN Without Base Price, Lusa Says  Portugal’s government will seek a buyer for failed lender
Banco Portugues de Negocios SA by the end of July without
setting a minimum price, Lusa news agency reported, citing the
text of the financial-aid agreement.  The government failed last year to find a buyer for the
retail banking business of BPN, after setting a minimum price of
180 million euros ($267 million).  Focus DIY Says It Intends to Appoint Administrators  Focus DIY Ltd., a U.K. retailer, said it will file notice
of intention to appoint administrators.  U.K.’s SFO Won’t Prosecute in Keydata Investment Services Probe  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office determined it “had
insufficient evidence to secure a prosecution” in its probe of
insolvent Keydata Investment Services Ltd., it said in a
statement on its website “As a result, we decided to focus our
efforts on tracing the assets of SLS Capital SA, rather than
attempting to prosecute. We are continuing to do this,” the SFO
said.  Lloyds to Sell 38 U.K. Commercial Properties in Receivership  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, has put 38 U.K. properties up for sale as it reduces its
real estate lending amid slumping values.  The properties, all placed into receivership after
borrowers defaulted on loans, will have a sale price of about 60
million pounds ($99 million), Ian Kitts, a London-based
spokesman for Lloyds, said by telephone.  The portfolio includes offices and stores and has a vacancy
rate of less than 4 percent, according to real estate broker
Jones Lang LaSalle Inc., which is selling the assets.  “This latest initiative is another example of the work we
are doing to manage our property book and de-leverage our
balance sheet,” said Richard Dakin, head of the Lloyds unit
that manages underperforming real-estate loans. “Bringing
together a portfolio of assets of this type is something we
wanted to explore.”  U.K. commercial property values have fallen 35 percent from
their peak in June 2007, research company Investment Property
Databank Ltd. said last month. Britain’s four biggest banks cut
European commercial property  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story. 