-- 
Karla Black, George Shaw on Shortlist for U.K. Turner Art Prize

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-05-04T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/karla-black-george-shaw-nominated-for-u-k-turner-contemporary-art-prize.html
The four artists in contention for the
 Turner Prize , the U.K.’s top contemporary-art award, include a
sculptor who uses cosmetics in her work.  Karla Black, who makes messy floor-based or hanging
sculptures using plaster and powder-paint as well as lipstick,
nail polish and eye shadow, is on the shortlist, announced today
at  Tate Britain . She was in the just-ended British Art Show 7 at
 London ’s  Hayward Gallery .  The nominations also feature  George Shaw , who produces
almost hyper-realistic paintings of his childhood surroundings:
the housing estate, the neighborhood pub and his longtime
hangouts in Coventry, central England.  Hilary Lloyd makes video installations where the projection
equipment becomes a sculpture in itself. And Martin Boyce --
currently in the  Royal Academy of Arts’  “Modern British
Sculpture” show -- draws inspiration from four concrete trees
designed for a modernist garden in 1925: He has turned them into
motifs for his practice, and for a new typeface.  The shortlist was announced at Tate Britain by its director
Penelope Curtis, who chairs the prize’s five-person jury, and by
two fellow judges.  Jury member Godfrey Worsdale -- director of  Baltic Centre
for Contemporary Art  in Gateshead, northern  England  -- said that
“at first glance,” some of the works might “appear to be
something quite banal.”  “One of the threads in art generally, at the moment, is
this idea that the easily overlooked can, if you give attention
to it, develop more and more,” said Worsdale, whose gallery
will host the prizegiving ceremony on Dec. 5.  Last year’s winner was Scotland-born Susan Philipsz, who
makes sound-based installations where her singing voice is
played through loudspeakers in public places.  The Turner Prize was set up in 1984. It goes to “a British
artist under 50 for an outstanding exhibition or other
presentation of their work” in the 12 months before April 4,
2011. The prize money is 25,000 pounds ($41,300) for the winner
and 5,000 pounds each for the runners-up. Previous victors
include  Damien Hirst , Grayson Perry and Mark Wallinger.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 