-- 
Kingdom Zephyr Expands in Nigeria as Carlyle, Vital Raise African Funds

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-05-04T10:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/kingdom-zephyr-expands-in-nigeria-as-carlyle-vital-raise-african-funds.html
Kingdom Zephyr Africa Management , a
private equity firm whose backers include Saudi Prince Alwaleed
Bin Talal, is expanding in Nigeria, as buyout firms’ interest in
 Africa  increases.  Seyi Owodunni, a partner at the firm and a former chief
financial officer of Nigerian telecommunications operator
Starcomms Plc, will head the new Lagos office, New York-based
Kingdom Zephyr said today in an e-mailed statement. Kingdom
Zephyr, which raised a $492 million private equity fund in 2008
for Africa, has offices in Accra, Ghana, Johannesburg and
London.  Private equity firms are creating teams or raising funds to
target investment in Africa and tap faster growth than in
western economies.  Carlyle Group  opened offices in  South Africa 
and Nigeria in March, saying the continent is one of the
fastest-growing regions in the world. The Washington-based
buyout firm, which raised $500 million for its first Middle East
and North Africa fund in 2009, is seeking to raise about $500
million for its first fund targeting Sub-Saharan Africa, two
people with knowledge of the plans said on March 3.  “ Nigeria ’s economic growth has recovered from the
temporary dip in 2009 on the back of higher  oil prices  as well
as industry and government reforms,” Owodunni said in the
statement. “Growth will be further aided by key demographic
trends such as an expanding workforce, increasing urbanization
and the rapid growth of Nigeria’s middle class.”  Economic growth in Sub-Saharan Africa will accelerate to
5.9 percent next year from 5.5 percent in 2011, according to
April forecasts from the  International Monetary Fund . That
compares with projected global growth of 4.5 percent next year.  Funds of about $2 billion were raised for Sub-Sahara,
Northern Africa and the Middle East last year, according data
compiled by the Emerging Markets Private Equity Association.
China attracted $7.5 billion, according to Washington-based
EMPEA.  Vital Capital Investments LP, which invests in housing and
agriculture in Africa, raised more than $250 million for its
first fund and plans to get another $250 million, it said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in  London  at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  