-- 
KKR’s First-Quarter Profit Rises 3% as Value of Leveraged Buyouts Gain

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-05-04T12:52:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/kkr-s-first-quarter-profit-rises-3-as-value-of-leveraged-buyouts-gain.html
KKR & Co., the private-equity firm
managed by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , said first-quarter
profit rose 3 percent as the value of its leveraged buyouts
increased.  Profit excluding some costs increased to $653.8 million, or
96 cents a share, from $634.7 million, or 93 cents, a year
earlier, the New York-based company said in a statement today.
The results beat the 61-cent average estimate of eight analysts
in a Bloomberg survey.  Kravis and Roberts’ firm and competitors  Blackstone Group
LP (BX)  and  Carlyle Group  are exploiting a more stable economy to
reap profits by selling some of their holdings, as well as
putting money to work in new LBOs. KKR has also expanded its
non-buyout activities by bulking up efforts in  hedge funds , real
estate and underwriting.  “KKR remains active (though selective) on the deal front,
as available credit at attractive terms can offset rising
valuations,”  Michael Kim , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP in New York, wrote in a note to clients before the
earnings release. The firm “remains active away from
traditional buyouts” by aiming for smaller deals and
transactions in debt and natural resources, as well as in
overseas markets, according to Kim.  He reiterated his recommendation yesterday that investors
buy KKR stock, saying he expected it to reach $23 a share within
12 months.  Private-Equity Business  Rising values of the company’s private-equity investments
helped drive assets under management up 12 percent to $61
billion.  Profit in the private markets business, which includes
KKR’s private-equity investments, rose 43 percent to $276.7
million from $193.7 million a year earlier.  KKR fell 36 cents, or 1.9 percent, yesterday to $18.24 at
4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
firm, which last year listed shares in New York after combining
with its publicly traded European fund, has gained 28 percent in
2011.  KKR said its private-equity investments gained 6.5 percent
in the quarter as the stock market recovery continued.  Management and incentive fees increased 12 percent to
$110.3 million from $98.2 million a year earlier.  Net income rose to 75 cents a share from 56 cents a year
earlier. That figure doesn’t include some of the costs related
to becoming a publicly listed firm and doesn’t comply with
generally accepted accounting principles.  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, last
month posted its best quarter since going public almost four
years ago. The New York-based firm cited a surge in values of
its real estate investments as a driver of its profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  