-- 
Konecranes Still Seeks Acquisitions After Failed Demag Bid

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-05-04T08:47:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/konecranes-still-seeks-acquisitions-after-failed-demag-bid.html
Konecranes Oyj (KCR1V) , whose bid for  Demag
Cranes AG (D9C)  was rebuffed in February, still targets growth through
purchases of manufacturers and service companies, after a U.S.
competitor made an offer for Demag this week.  “Acquisitions remain a part of our growth strategy, as
does organic growth,” Mikael Wegmuller, spokesman for the
Hyvinkaa, Finland-based cranemaker, said by phone today. “We
are looking both at smaller maintenance and service companies
and manufacturers of varying sizes.”  Konecranes is seeking acquisition targets and is conducting
negotiations, German newspaper Handelsblatt reported today,
citing an interview with Chief Executive Officer Pekka Lundmark.
 Terex Corp. (TEX) , a U.S. heavy-equipment manufacturer, bid for Demag
two days ago in an offer valuing the German company at about
883.9 million euros ($1.31 billion), or 15 percent more than
Demag’s closing price on April 29.  Konecranes approached Demag last September, and it backed
off after Demag’s rejection. Wegmuller declined to comment on
Terex’s bid or whether Konecranes would renew its offer. He said
it’s the company’s policy not to confirm if it’s in talks.  Konecranes, the world’s biggest supplier of industrial
cranes, has so far this year acquired three companies: Zeiss
Staplerservice GmbH, an Austrian lift truck service company; WMI
Cranes Ltd., an Indian crane company; and  Chile ’s Gruas Koman
Lda., which sets up and maintains lifting equipment.  The Finnish company last week reported first-quarter net
income of 8.5 million euros, missing the average estimate of
19.3 million euros in a Bloomberg survey of nine analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  