-- 
Natural Gas Falls for Third Day in New York on Forecasts for Mild Weather

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-05-04T19:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/natural-gas-falls-for-third-day-in-new-york-on-milder-weather.html
Natural gas futures fell for a third
day in  New York  as forecasts showed temperatures will be lower
than normal in the U.S. South this week, reducing demand for the
power-plant fuel to run air conditioners.  Gas declined 2 percent as forecasters including Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland , said temperatures will
be below normal through May 8. U.S. nuclear production rose for
a second day in a rebound from the lowest levels in almost 12
years. The relative-strength index for gas futures stayed near a
sell signal.  “The weather is moderating and it’s taking some premiums
out of the market,” said Carl Neill, an energy consultant at
Risk Management Inc. in Atlanta. “We are in a normal shoulder
period and the market is reacting accordingly.”  Natural gas for June delivery fell 9.3 cents to settle at
$4.577 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices have dropped 2.6 percent this week
after rising the previous three weeks.  Gas futures open interest on the Nymex rose above 1 million
for the first time, according to Chris Grams, a spokesman for
CME Group Inc., which owns the Nymex.  The total contracts outstanding reached 1,003,421
yesterday, breaking the previous record of 992,434 set on May 2,
Grams said in an e-mail today. The three-month average open
interest is 936,000.  Futures Volume  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
265,222 as of 2:37 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 321,000. Volume was 223,787 yesterday.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  The relative-strength index for gas futures fell below 70
for the first time in four days, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Some traders see readings above 70 as sell signals
and figures at 30 or below as buy indicators.  “Temporary price support should wane with loosening
balances as nuclear units return and as temperatures likely fall
short of last year’s sweltering heat into the early part of the
cooling season,” James R. Crandell, an analyst with  Barclays
Capital  in New York, said in a note to clients today.  Temperatures will be below normal in the East and South
this week before rising above normal next week, according to
 Matt Rogers , president of  Commodity Weather Group LLC .  Warmer Weather  The 6- to 10-day forecast calls for warmer-than-typical
weather to spread from the  Great Lakes  to the U.S. Gulf Coast
and parts of the Southwest, Rogers said.  From May 9 to May 13, cold pockets will probably be
confined to parts of the Pacific Northwest and sections of
 Montana  and  North Dakota .  Power plants  use 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies
according to the Energy Department. Residential consumers
account for about 20 percent.  U.S. nuclear-power output rose 2.1 percent from yesterday
to 70,385 megawatts, or 69 percent of capacity, according to a
Nuclear Regulatory Commission report and data compiled by
Bloomberg. Production fell to 68,248 megawatts on May 2, the
lowest level since 1999.  The department may say tomorrow that gas stockpiles gained
67 billion cubic feet in the week ended April 29, according to
the median of 18 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
five-year average change for the week is an increase of 78
billion.  Lower nuclear production increased demand for natural gas
by 2 billion to 3 billion cubic feet a day last week, according
to  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in
New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  