-- 
Netflix Said to Seek Media Rights for Latin America Service

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r ,   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-04T21:30:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/netflix-said-to-seek-latin-america-rights-to-shows-from-disney-paramount.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , preparing to expand in
Latin America, is negotiating with entertainment companies for
rights to stream movies and television shows in the region.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , Universal
Pictures and  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount Pictures are in discussions
with Netflix for Latin American rights, according to people with
knowledge of the talks. The rights being discussed with one
studio would exclude Mexico, said one of the people, who
declined to be named because the talks are private.  Latin America would become Netflix’s third market. The
company started a streaming-only subscription service in Canada
last year, expanding from the U.S., where it also offers DVDs by
mail.  CBS Corp. (CBS)  is in “serious talks” with Netflix for
Canadian and Latin American rights, the broadcaster’s chief
executive officer, Leslie Moonves, said yesterday.  “We are always negotiating with virtually all the studios
and networks and independent filmmakers,” said Steve Swasey, a
spokesman for Los Gatos, California-based Netflix. “We are
looking at international expansion in a lot of places.”  Michelle Bergman, a spokeswoman for Burbank, California-
based Disney, declined to comment, as did Peter Wilkes, a
spokesman for Vancouver-based  Lions Gate , and Cindy Gardner, a
spokeswoman for Universal. Dade Hayes, an outside spokesman for
Paramount, had no immediate comment.  Netflix CEO Reed Hastings has said he’s looking to enter
new territories. He hasn’t said where, dropping hints at
appearances like the Wired magazine conference yesterday, where
he mentioned Brazil, India, Australia and Turkey.  “We haven’t announced our next market yet,” Hastings said
at yesterday’s event in  New York . “Look for high broadband and
eager customers.”  Older Titles  The movies being discussed for the Latin American service
are older titles, said one of the people.  Netflix said on April 26 its push outside the U.S. will
lead to international operating losses of as much as $70 million
in the second half, up from a previous forecast of $50 million.  Netflix fell $2.05 to $229.19 at 4:30 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 30 percent
this year.  Central and  Latin America  will have the fastest growth
through 2015 in broadband connections that are required for
online movie services such as Netflix’s, according to a November
2010 report by consulting firm Analysys Mason in  London .  Governments in countries including Brazil and India favor
upgrading Internet service over paving roads, Hastings said
yesterday.  “I was in Costa Rica on a surf trip, relatively isolated,
but there was DSL,” Hastings said. “I was surprised.
Government-laid fiber down the dirt road.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  