-- 
New Zealand Earthquake Spurs Biggest Exodus in 10 Years

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-05-04T02:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/new-zealand-earthquake-spurs-biggest-exodus-in-10-years-1-.html
New Zealand  had the biggest net
outflow of residents in more than 10 years in March, an exodus
spurred by the South Island earthquake that killed more than 170
people the previous month.  Permanent migrant departures exceeded arrivals by 530 in
March, the most since a net 2,400 net emigrants in February
2001, Statistics New Zealand said today in Wellington. In the
year ended March, arrivals outpaced departures by 6,554, a two-
year low.  The flight of residents adds evidence to the government’s
outlook for little to no growth after the magnitude 6.3 quake
wrecked houses and closed businesses in Christchurch Feb. 22.
The  Treasury Department  this week said gross domestic product
was “flat to slightly negative” in the first quarter and
forecast 2011 growth will be about 1 percent.  “With future migration flows to be significantly
influenced by the Christchurch earthquake and with the
Australian  unemployment rate  considerably below our own, this
dynamic is unlikely to reverse any time soon,” said  Mark Smith ,
economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington.  New Zealand’s dollar fell to 79.27 U.S. cents at 1:57 p.m.
in Wellington from 79.83 cents immediately before the report.  Permanent departures of Christchurch residents more than
doubled to 1,100 in March from a year earlier, today’s report
showed. About 600 of those residents moved to  Australia , the
statistics agency said.  Australia’s Allure  In March, 3,550 more New Zealand residents departed
permanently for Australia than arrived from the larger nation,
the biggest net emigration for that month since 1981.  Australia, a nation five times the size of New Zealand’s
4.4 million people, is little more than three hours away by
aircraft and offers employment and higher wages as its economy
benefits from demand for mineral exports.  Australia had its biggest annual increase in jobs on record
last year and employers added more workers in March than
economists forecast, lowering the jobless rate to 4.9 percent.
New Zealand’s jobless rate was 6.8 percent in the fourth
quarter.  More Christchurch residents took trips overseas in March,
today’s report showed. Short-term departures from the nation’s
second-biggest city increased 40 percent from March last year.  Nationally, departures rose 5.4 percent from February, the
statistics agency said.  Tourism  Short-term overseas visitor arrivals fell 7.1 percent from
February, a sign the temblor hurt the  tourism industry , which
makes up about 9 percent of New Zealand’s economy.  “The international experience of events of this nature is
that an immediate shortfall in visitor numbers is likely,”
Tourism New Zealand Chief Executive Officer Kevin Bowler said in
an e-mailed statement today. “We can expect overall arrival
figures in April to also be challenging.”  A national state of emergency in Christchurch was lifted on
April 30 and the government yesterday announced an alliance
including the city council and five construction companies to
undertake as much as NZ$5 billion ($4 billion) of work on roads,
water and waste pipes.  In March, the number of new building approvals issued in
Christchurch fell 77 percent to 43, according to a separate
 Statistics New Zealand  report released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  