-- 
News Corp. Profit Drops 24% as Film Sales Fail to Measure Up to ‘Avatar’

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-05-04T22:25:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/news-corp-s-third-quarter-earnings-decline-24-on-falling-movie-revenue.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , the owner of Fox
Broadcasting and the Twentieth Century Fox film studio, said
third-quarter profit declined 24 percent on falling movie
revenue.  Net income fell to $639 million, or 24 cents a share, from
$839 million, or 32 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. Excluding some items,
earnings dropped to 26 cents a share. Analysts predicted 27
cents, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Filmed-entertainment sales slid 36 percent to $1.55 billion
as the quarter’s movies didn’t measure up to “Avatar” a year
ago, the biggest box-office movie of all time. Earnings at the
filmed-entertainment unit fell by half to $248 million.  News Corp. predicted that adjusted operating profit will
rise in the low double-digit range for the year ending June 30,
2011, Chief Financial Officer David DeVoe said on a call with
investors. The forecast is based on adjusted operating income of
$4.46 billion for fiscal 2010. Analysts expect operating profit
for fiscal 2011 of $4.91 billion, implying growth of 10 percent.  “We are expecting strong earnings growth in our fiscal
fourth quarter,” DeVoe said.  Total sales in the third quarter ended March 31 decreased
5.9 percent to $8.26 billion, compared with analysts’ $8.41
billion estimate.  ‘Numbers Were Good’  News Corp., also the owner of Fox News and the Wall Street
Journal, declined 18 cents to $17.34 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares have increased
19 percent this year.  “The numbers were good where it mattered,” said  David
Bank , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York. “But this
market needs a clean beat.”  Operating profit for the television unit more than
quadrupled to $192 million on higher revenue from National
Football League games and national advertising.  Cable networks increased operating income 13 percent to
$2.04 billion. At the U.S. channels, advertising grew 14
percent. News Corp.’s Fox TV has also been pushing distributors
to pay retransmission fees for its programming, following the
drop in ad sales during the U.S. recession.  Charles "Chase" Carey, News Corp. chief operating officer,
said the company also expects to receive higher subscriber fees
for its cable channels such as Fox News.  ‘Appropriate Increase’  “With  Fox News  we’ve created a channel that’s due an
appropriate increase given its place in the market,” Carey said
on the call.  The group that includes the social network MySpace had an
operating loss of $165 million in the quarter, compared with a
$150 million loss a year earlier. News Corp. has started a
process to decide what to do with MySpace after it lost market
share to Facebook Inc.  News Corp. is awaiting U.K. government approval of its bid
for the 61 percent of pay-TV operator British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc it doesn’t already own. Upon government approval, News
Corp. may renegotiate its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.9 billion)
offer, to gain approval from BSkyB shareholders.  “We will be very disciplined” about negotiating a new
price for BSkyB, Carey said. “We’ll find other options for our
capital if we can’t reach a deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in  New York  at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  