-- 
No Republican Breaks 20 Percent in White House Field, Poll Shows

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-04T10:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/no-republican-breaks-20-percent-in-white-house-field-poll-shows.html
None of the potential candidates in
the unsettled Republican presidential field breaks the 20-
percent mark, according to a poll released on the eve of the
first official debate among some contenders.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney leads the pack
with 18 percent among Republicans and independent voters leaning
toward the party, the  Quinnipiac University poll  shows. Tied for
second are former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  and former
Alaska Governor Sarah Palin with 15 percent, followed by real
estate developer Donald Trump with 12 percent.  “It’s difficult to get a handle on the 2012 Republican
race,” Peter Brown, assistant director of the Hamden,
Connecticut-based polling institute, said in a statement. “Many
contenders are not well-known and many who are known are not
liked, making their candidacies problematic.”  The poll shows limited potential in a general election
campaign for Trump and Palin. In interviews with registered
voters of various political stripes, 58 percent said they would
never consider voting for either of those two, roughly twice the
level expressed for most of the other Republicans.  “Sarah Palin and  Donald Trump  suffer from the reality
that, as our mothers told us, ‘You never get a second chance to
make a first impression,’” Brown said.  The one other Republican rejected by a sizable bloc of
voters is former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , with 42
percent of those surveyed saying they would never consider
voting for him.  ‘No Way’  “You could call this the ‘No Way’ measure,” Brown said.  The poll, taken April 26 to May 1, interviewed a total of
1,408 registered voters by telephone; the margin of error for
that sample was plus or minus 2.6 percentage points. For the
questions about the Republican primary, the poll interviewed 613
self-identified Republicans or Republican-leaning independents
from the larger group; the margin of error for that sample was
plus or minus four percentage points.  Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels, U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas and Gingrich each receive 5 percent support in the
polling of the Republican-leaning voters. Two Minnesotans,
former Governor Tim Pawlenty and U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann , get 4 percent each.  Jon Huntsman , the former Utah governor who resigned last
month as the U.S. ambassador to  China , received support from 1
percent, the same showing as former New Mexico Governor Gary Johnson and former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum.  Huntsman, who yesterday created a federal political action
committee as a possible prelude to a presidential candidacy, is
scheduled to speak in South Carolina on May 7, his first public
speech since returning to the U.S.  Debate Participants  The candidate  debate  occurring tomorrow in Greenville,
 South Carolina , will underscore the unformed nature of the
Republican primary race. None of those in double digits in the
Quinnipiac poll is participating.  Scheduled to attend are Pawlenty, Paul, Santorum and
Johnson, along with Herman Cain, the former chairman of
Godfather’s Pizza.  The gathering comes four days after Barack Obama announced
that a U.S. raid into  Pakistan  killed Osama bin Laden, boosting
the Democratic president’s foreign policy credentials.  On economic questions, poll participants favored cutting
the nation’s unemployment rate of 8.8 percent over reducing the
deficit, 54 percent to 35 percent. Still, in another question,
they were evenly divided when asked to rank the importance
between reducing federal government spending and unemployment.  By 69 percent to 28 percent, voters support raising taxes
on households earning $250,000 or more.  Nearly as many, 60 percent to 34 percent, said Medicare
should remain as is, rather than giving senior citizens money to
buy private health insurance starting in 2022, as  House
Republicans  proposed in a budget they passed last month.
Gradually raising the age of Medicare eligibility from 65 to 67
by 2033 is favored by 51 percent, opposed by 46 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Chicago  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 