-- 
Norway’s REC Reports $20 Million First Quarter Net Loss; Misses Estimate

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-05-04T12:26:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/norway-s-rec-reports-20-million-first-quarter-net-loss-misses-estimate.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA fell the
most in five months after the Norwegian solar-components
producer gave a weak market outlook and posted a first-quarter
net loss because of a shortfall in financial items.  The shares slumped as much as 7.6 percent, and were down
7.2 percent at 16.95 kroner as of 2:01 p.m. in Oslo, the biggest
drop since Nov. 29.  The net loss was 108 million kroner ($20 million), or a
diluted loss of 0.11 kroner a share, compared with profit of 346
million kroner, or diluted loss of 0.01 kroner a share, a year
earlier, the Oslo-based company said today. Sales were 4.1
billion, up from 2.4 billion kroner a year earlier.  “By the end of the quarter things have started to drop and
going forward they have given quite a weak outlook,” Are Grongstad, an analyst at Agilis, said over the phone.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose to 1.5 billion kroner from 415 million kroner
a year earlier. REC was expected to have an EBITDA of 1.2
billion kroner, according to the average of 15 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. The company posted a loss of 856 million kroner on
financial items in the period.  “The quarter was very strong and the operational
performance by REC on a company-specific basis was very good,”
Preben Rasch-Olsen, an analyst at Carnegie ASA, said over the
phone. “The problem is the solar industry is so rotten. The
demand is softening;  Italy  is extremely uncertain and there
seems to be a general slowdown in the whole industry.”  ‘Turbulent Market’  Uncertainty about a subsidy program in Italy reduced demand
in the first quarter, REC said. The company is expecting
pressure on profit margins for producing modules and wafers in
the second quarter, while polysilicon margins are expected to
remain fairly stable, the company said. “A continued weak
market may lead to inventory buildup and REC may need to reduce
capacity utilization,” it said in the statement.  Chief Executive Officer Ole Enger said in an earnings
presentation that he was satisfied with current inventory.  “If we have a turbulent market for a quarter or two, I
think we are in a good financial position to stand through the
storm, said REC Chief Financial Officer Bjoern Brenna in an
interview in Oslo. ‘‘I think it will be very tough for many of
our competitors.’’  The financial items that pulled down the earnings were a
result of currency derivative contracts and a convertible bond
being marked to market, Brenna said.  REC reported that wafer and module prices fell in the
quarter while average prices for polysilicon were stable.  The company produced 4,390 metric tons of polysilicon in
the first quarter, higher than the 4,000 tons the company
forecast in February. Multi and Mono wafer production was 351
megawatts, in line with the forecast 350 megawatts. Module
production was 148 megawatts, less than the forecast 170
megawatts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  