-- 
NRC Hearings on New Reactor Licenses to Proceed, Jaczko Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-05-04T17:24:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/nrc-hearings-on-new-reactor-licenses-to-proceed-jaczko-says-1-.html
The U.S. will move ahead with the
licensing process for new nuclear  power plants  as it reviews the
safety of existing reactors after  Japan ’s crisis,  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission  Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said.  “As early as late summer, the commission may conduct the
first mandatory hearings on new reactor licenses since the
1970s,” Jaczko said today at a hearing of the U.S. House Energy
and Commerce Committee. Environmental groups sought to halt the
process pending a U.S. investigation of reactor safety.  NRC inspectors are examining whether existing U.S. reactors
can withstand flooding, earthquakes and the loss of electricity
from both the grid and emergency generators, Jaczko said.  The nation’s 104 commercial nuclear reactors are getting
closer scrutiny from U.S. regulators and lawmakers after a March
11 earthquake and tsunami triggered partial meltdowns at a
nuclear plant in Japan.  The natural disaster destroyed  power lines  and flooded
diesel generators at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant, shutting down its cooling systems. Fuel rods in four
of the six reactor buildings overheated, causing fires,
explosions and radiation leaks in the world’s worst nuclear
incident since the 1986 Chernobyl accident.  The NRC started a 90-day safety review of U.S. reactors
after backup power failed at Fukushima, about 135 miles (217
kilometers) north of Tokyo.  Environmental Petition  Environmental groups sent a petition to the NRC on April 14
seeking a suspension of the U.S. licensing process until an
independent committee examines the lessons of the catastrophe in
Japan. The  Nuclear Energy Institute  said no such delay was
necessary.  U.S. nuclear plants may need to be better prepared for a
“station blackout,” when cooling systems are severed from the
 power grid  and backup diesel generators fail, Jaczko said April
28 at a public meeting at NRC headquarters in Rockville,
 Maryland . The NRC will study expanding evacuation zones around
U.S. plants to 50 miles from 10 miles, Jaczko said April 12.  While the NRC has “confidence in the safety of U.S.
nuclear power plants,” the industry’s record needs improvement,
Jaczko said today. The number of automatic “scrams,” or sudden
shutdowns, in 2010 increased for a second straight year, and
three nuclear plants are “subject to increased NRC inspection
oversight because of performance deficiencies,” he said.  Yucca Mountain  Republican lawmakers today criticized Jaczko’s decision in
October to halt the agency’s review of a proposed federal
nuclear-waste repository at Yucca Mountain in  Nevada . Jaczko’s
instruction to NRC staff was based on President Barack Obama’s
budget request last year, which eliminated funds for the
project. Obama also appointed a panel to study alternatives for
handling spent reactor fuel.  Republican lawmakers have  said  Jaczko lacked the authority
to shut the review. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman
 Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, said March 31 his panel is
investigating the NRC’s handling of Yucca Mountain.  The energy panel’s investigation is “just starting to
scratch the surface,” Upton said today. “We are going to
pursue this,” he said.  Halting the review of a proposed waste site was legally
justified and “in no way a political action,” Jaczko said
today. The “close out” of the NRC’s Yucca Mountain review
should be completed by Sept. 30, Jaczko said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  