-- 
Obama’s Approval Rose 11 Points in Poll After Bin Laden Raid

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-04T20:29:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/obama-s-approval-rose-11-points-in-poll-after-bin-laden-raid-1-.html
President  Barack Obama , whose approval
ratings have surged since the killing of al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden , will travel to New York tomorrow to meet with
families of Sept. 11 victims.  Former President  George W. Bush , whose ratings soared to 90
percent in the weeks following the 2001 terrorist attacks on the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon, declined Obama’s invitation
to be there.  “He appreciated the invite but has chosen in his post-
presidency to remain largely out of the spotlight,” David
Sherzer, a spokesman for the former president, said in an e-
mailed statement. “He continues to celebrate with all Americans
this important victory in the war on terror.”  Obama’s standing with Americans has risen since Navy SEALs
raided a Pakistani compound on May 1 and killed the FBI’s most-
wanted terrorist, according to a  New York  Times/CBS News poll.
In questioning on May 2-3, 57 percent of respondents say they
approve of the president’s overall job performance, up from 46
percent last month. The nationwide telephone poll of 532 U.S.
adults has a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage
points.  The president is traveling to New York tomorrow to visit
Ground Zero, where the World Trade Center towers once stood, and
meet with families of victims of al-Qaeda’s attacks.  Wreath Laying  The only thing the public will see during the president’s
visit will be a wreath-laying ceremony at the 9/11 Memorial at
Ground Zero. Obama’s meetings with victim’s families and with
first responders to the attack at the World Trade Center will be
held in private, said White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
today at a daily briefing with reporters.  When asked why the president decided not to make remarks
tomorrow, Carney said there was no debate within the White House
about whether Obama would speak. The president wants “to honor
the spirit of unity in America that we all felt in the wake of
that terrible attack” by laying a wreath to honor the victims,
Carney said. “I think the power of that requires no words.”  The meetings with the president, which will undoubtedly
mark a “bittersweet moment” for many of the family members,
are most appropriately done in private, Carney said.  How long the president will benefit from the national
jubilation over the killing of  bin Laden  remains to be seen. The
jump from last month’s poll numbers is to be expected and
probably won’t last, said  Stuart Rothenberg , editor of the
Washington-based Rothenberg Political Report.  ‘Abnormal Situation’  “The poll is nothing more than a picture of how the public
feels after hearing really good news,” Rothenberg said. “It’s
a very abnormal situation. It’s not every day that Osama bin
Laden is killed.”  According to a study by  Public Opinion Strategies , a
Republican polling firm, Bush had a  35 percent bump in his job 
approval ratings that lasted 105 weeks after the Sept. 11
attacks. According to the pollster, excluding Bush’s surge in
approval ratings, the average presidential ratings increase
after a crisis, such as the 1941 attack on  Pearl Harbor ,  Hawaii ,
is 13 percentage points and lasts an average of 22 weeks.  A USA Today/CNN/Gallup poll released Sept. 23, 2001, showed
that a record 90 percent of those polled approved of the way
Bush was handling his job in the wake of the attacks. That was
the highest approval rating of a U.S. president measured by the
Gallup Poll, the paper said.  Handling the Economy  According to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, good
feelings about Obama didn’t extend to his handling of the
economy, where his approval rating fell 4 percentage points from
a poll conducted two weeks ago to the lowest level since he took
office. Thirty-four percent of those polled said they approve of
Obama’s handling the economy, a top issue for voters leading
into the 2012 presidential campaign.  In making their case against Obama, Republicans who may
seek the presidency have been spotlighting rising gasoline
prices, the shaky  U.S. economy  and a national debt that’s
approaching $14.3 trillion.  The poll numbers on the economy are a “much better
indicator” of the president’s long-term success, Rothenberg
said. The economy will be tops on voters’ minds “when we get
back to a more normal environment in six months to a year from
now, when people start refocusing on their daily lives, and
issues like the rising price of gasoline will be their biggest
concern,” he said.  Bin Laden, 54, was killed almost 10 years after
orchestrating the 2001 attacks that took the lives of almost
3,000 people at the World Trade Center in New York, the Pentagon
in suburban  Washington  and in a field in  Pennsylvania , where
hijacked United Airlines Flight 93 crashed.  Bush plans to mark the 10th anniversary of the terrorist
attack at  Ground Zero  in September, Sherzer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  