-- 
Obama’s Tax Plan Likely to Focus on ‘Concepts,’ Camp Says

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-05-04T19:20:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/obama-s-tax-proposal-likely-to-focus-on-concepts-camp-says.html
The chief tax writer in the U.S. House
said he doubts the Obama administration will send a detailed
proposal to overhaul the tax code to  Capitol Hill  and will
instead unveil a plan focused on broad concepts.  “I don’t think they’re ever going to send up a package,”
Representative  Dave Camp , the Michigan Republican who chairs the
 Ways and Means Committee , said today. “I think they’re going to
develop some concepts and ideas.”  A rewrite of the individual and corporate U.S. tax code is
a key element of the $4 trillion deficit-reduction plan
President Barack Obama outlined last month. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  has met with executives from  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  in recent months
to discuss ideas for a tax overhaul.  Representative Bill Pascrell, a New Jersey Democrat and
member of the Ways and Means panel, said the White House hasn’t
informed the committee of plans to release a tax proposal.  “We know something is in the works,” he said. “We don’t
know exactly when the administration will have it.”  White House officials haven’t said which tax breaks they
are targeting or when a proposal could be released.
Administration spokeswoman Amy Brundage said today that the push
for an overhaul is an “ongoing process.”  ‘No Decisions’  “No decisions have been made about the content of any
specific proposal or the timing or manner in which the
administration will move this dialogue forward,” she said in an
e-mail.  Geithner told a Senate subcommittee last month that
Treasury officials are crafting an overhaul plan. “We have been
working on a comprehensive proposal to get the process in
Congress moving,” he said.  Treasury officials developed legislative language to kick
off the last major  tax code  overhaul, which was completed in
1986. Pascrell said he hopes the administration develops more of
a “framework” this time and allows Congress to fill in the
gaps.  “We’ve got to work out the revenue side of it,” he said.  Obama and Geithner have said their goal is to eliminate
many of the deductions and benefits in the tax code and expand
the tax base. Those changes could cover the cost of lowering
rates from the current top marginal rate of 35 percent.  Possible Business Effects  Business groups have begun seeking to determine whether
benefits affecting companies or industries that they represent
might be affected. Mary Lyman, the executive director of the
 National Association of Publicly Traded Partnerships , told her
members last week that Treasury staff members were developing a
tax proposal that would treat so-called pass-through entities,
such as partnerships, with more than $50 million in annual
revenue in the same manner as corporations.  White House and Treasury officials haven’t confirmed
whether that proposal is actively being considered. Camp today
said he was aware of the concept and was cool to the idea.  “It’s not something I’d be inclined to consider,” he
said, after speaking to a legislative policy conference in
Washington sponsored by Baker Hostetler LLP, a law firm, the
Federal Policy Group, a consulting company, and the Yale Club of
Washington, an alumni group.  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
 Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  