-- 
No Carter Echo for Obama as Gasoline Cost May Ease for Campaign

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-05-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/obama-won-t-hear-carter-echo-as-gasoline-prices-may-ease-during-campaign.html
Soaring gasoline prices have eroded
President  Barack Obama ’s job-approval ratings and exposed him to
political attacks even as futures markets, the chairman of the
 Federal Reserve  and some analysts say prices may soon peak.  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, underlined
the growing political pressure on Obama last week, saying the
president “certainly isn’t gonna win” re-election next year if
gasoline prices, now close to a national average of $4 per
gallon, reach $5 or $6.  Yet on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, gasoline for
September delivery settled yesterday at 4.1 percent below the
June contract, Bloomberg data show.  “I believe prices will stabilize and that $4 a gallon will
be an outlier rather than an average during driving season,”
Tom Kloza, chief analyst with the  Oil Price Information Service ,
wrote in an e-mail.  Prices will be kept in check by “demand destruction” as
consumers curb unnecessary driving and as several U.S.
refineries now shut for maintenance are started up, Kloza said.  The current $3.97 national average for a gallon of gasoline
is up 48 percent since Labor Day, Sept. 6, according to AAA, the
nation’s biggest motoring group. In California and New York,
among other states, prices already  top $4 .  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, meeting reporters last week,
said prices likely won’t continue to increase at the recent pace
and will “stabilize or even come down” should turmoil end in
the Middle East. The U.S. Energy Department’s Energy Information
Administration expects prices to dip to an average of $3.85 in
the third quarter and $3.73 in the fourth. Analysts at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  say  oil prices  are poised to slip.  Shaking Confidence  Still, the recent surge in pump prices threatens to sap
confidence in the economic recovery, with Bernanke saying it has
created “a great deal of financial hardship.” And few metrics
attract as much consumer attention and spark as much political
maneuvering.  Republican pollster Ed Goeas said the issue is driving
broad voter discontent with the economy. In polls, “where it
shows up is not in more people saying they’re concerned about
gas prices, but more people saying they’re concerned about the
economy and jobs,” said Goeas, president and chief executive
officer of the Tarrance Group in Alexandria, Virginia.  For the average U.S. household, gasoline this year will
cost $1,210 more than in 2009, according to the Energy
Information Administration.  Impact on Economy  Higher prices already have put an imprint on the economy,
slicing two-thirds of a percentage point from this year’s
growth, according to James Hamilton, an economics professor at
the University of  California ,  San Diego .  “It is weighing on consumers,” Hamilton said. “You can
see it in consumer sentiment. You can see it in  consumer
spending . The economy won’t be as strong.”  David Axelrod, Obama’s top political strategist, said the
White House pressed for a one-year, two-percentage-point cut in
payroll taxes in a tax agreement with Republicans last December
to increase consumer income. “The precipitous increase in
gasoline prices has eaten some of that up,” Axelrod said.  Since the twin oil shocks of the 1970s, gasoline prices
have posed a potential threat for American presidents. Jimmy Carter’s presidency was derailed in part by energy-related
issues. Amid rising gas prices, inflation rose to as high as
14.8 percent during the 1980 presidential campaign.  ‘Worried About It’  Those memories now shadow another Democratic White House as
it struggles to nurture an economic recovery. Just 43 percent of
Americans said they approved of Obama’s handling of the economy
in a Bloomberg National Poll in March, while 52 percent
disapproved.  “They’re worried about it, I think, with good reason,”
said  John Podesta , who was White House chief of staff for
President Bill Clinton and now advises the Obama administration.
“When the public turns sour, the guy sitting in the Oval Office
bears some responsibility.”  Republicans blame high gas prices on the president’s
failure to pursue new domestic oil supplies, including imposing
a drilling moratorium after the BP Plc oil spill.  “His energy policy is hurting the average American because
it’s causing the price of gas to go up,” Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  told Fox Business Network on April 27.
“We’re not doing anything about expanding supply.”  Emerging Markets  Supply and demand explains much of the global oil price
rise. Oil demand rose 2.3 million barrels per day last year to a
record 86.7 million barrels a day; it’s expected to grow by an
additional 1.5 million barrels in 2011, with most of that coming
from emerging markets such as China, India and  Brazil , according
to the EIA.  Unrest in the Middle East and North Africa -- which has
halted Libyan exports of about 1.5 million barrels per day --
also has tightened supplies.  In the short term, there isn’t much a president can do
about prices. So Obama has sought to refocus the debate on tax-
code provisions that benefit oil producers and the role of
financial speculators in driving prices.  In attacking as unneeded an estimated $4 billion in
taxpayer subsidies, the administration points to  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , the world’s largest company by market value, which on
April 28 reported first-quarter net income of $10.7 billion, up
69 percent from the same period a year earlier.  Hedging on Prices  Wall Street speculators are a favorite target of Democrats
because they’re “these bad guys out there who are jacking up
the price by just, you know, playing games in the market,” said
Representative Ed Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat.  In recent years, heavy consumers of oil, such as airlines,
that use the futures market to hedge against price rises have
been joined in the trading pits by so-called non-commercial
investors.  Speculative bets on rising oil prices by  hedge funds ,
commodity pools and commodity trading advisers, expressed in net
long positions on Nymex futures and options, hit 301,118
contracts in the most recent Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. That’s equivalent to a notional 301 million
barrels of oil and more than twice the volume in 2008 when a
barrel of oil peaked at more than $145, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Boosting the prospects that prices may ease is the
resumption of activity at U.S. oil refiners.  Refiners typically conduct routine maintenance during the
first quarter to be ready for the summer driving season.  Valero
Energy Corp. (VLO)  is restarting refineries in Ardmore,  Oklahoma , and
St. Charles,  Louisiana . Both are expected to be converting crude
oil into gasoline and other products by mid-May, Lane Riggs,
Valero’s senior vice president for refining operations, said
during an April 26 analyst call.  Oil May Fall  Also backing a bearish pricing call is the verdict of
analysts at Goldman Sachs that crude oil prices may fall, after
about a 50 percent gain the past year. High gasoline prices may
curtail demand and speculators may be surprised if a settlement
is reached in  Libya  and Nigeria’s political transition proceeds
smoothly, Goldman analysts said in an April 11 client note.  “Prices for benchmark light crudes are potentially
vulnerable by $30/barrel over the next six months,” analysts at
London-based  Edison Investment Research Ltd.  told clients in an
April 18 note.  To be certain, if unrest spreads to  Saudi Arabia , the
world’s largest oil exporter, prices could rise. Still, Guy Caruso of the Center for Strategic & International Studies in
 Washington , a former EIA administrator, said it would take
another “rather substantial disruption” in the oil market to
bring about the $5-a-gallon prices some commentators anticipate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  