-- 
Obama’s Job Rating Jumps 11% in Poll After Bin Laden’s Killing in Pakistan

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-04T14:35:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/obama-s-job-rating-jumps-11-in-poll-after-bin-laden-s-killing-in-pakistan.html
President  Barack Obama , whose approval
ratings have surged since the killing of al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden , will travel to New York tomorrow to meet with
families of Sept. 11 victims.  Former President  George W. Bush , whose ratings soared to 90
percent in the weeks following the 2001 terrorist attacks on the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon, declined Obama’s invitation
to be there.  “He appreciated the invite, but has chosen in his post-
presidency to remain largely out of the spotlight,” David
Sherzer, a spokesman for the former president, said in an e-
mailed statement. “He continues to celebrate with all Americans
this important victory in the war on terror.”  Obama’s standing with Americans has risen since Navy SEALs
raided a Pakistani compound on May 1 and killed the FBI’s most-
wanted terrorist, according to a  New York  Times/CBS News poll.
In questioning on May 2-3, 57 percent of respondents say they
approve of the president’s overall job performance, up from 46
percent last month. The nationwide telephone poll of 532 U.S.
adults has a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage
points.  The president is traveling to New York tomorrow to visit
“Ground Zero,” where the World Trade Center towers once stood,
and meet with families of victims of al-Qaeda’s attacks.  How long the president will benefit from the national
jubilation over the killing of  bin Laden  remains to be seen. The
11 point jump from last month’s numbers is to be expected and
probably won’t last, said  Stuart Rothenberg , editor of the
Washington-based Rothenberg Political Report.  ‘Abnormal Situation’  “The poll is nothing more than a picture of how the public
feels after hearing really good news,” Rothenberg said. “It’s
a very abnormal situation, it’s not every day that Osama bin
Laden is killed.”  According to a study by  Public Opinion Strategies , a
Republican polling firm, Bush got a  35 percent bump in his job 
approval ratings that lasted 105 weeks after the Sept. 11
attacks. According to the pollster, excluding Bush’s surge in
approval ratings, the average presidential ratings bump after a
crisis, such as the 1941 attack on  Pearl Harbor ,  Hawaii , is 13
percent and lasts an average of 22 weeks.  A USA Today/CNN/Gallup poll released Sept. 23, 2001, showed
that a record 90 percent of those polled approved of the way
Bush was handling his job in the wake of the attacks. That was
the highest-ever approval rating of an American president
measured by the Gallup Poll, the paper said.  Handling Economy  According to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, good
feelings about the president didn’t extend to his handling of
the economy, where his approval rating fell 4 percentage points
from a poll conducted two weeks ago, to the lowest level since
he took office. Thirty-four percent of those polled said they
approve of how Obama’s handling the economy, a top issue for
voters leading into the 2012 presidential campaign.  In making their case against Obama, Republicans who may
seek the presidency have been spotlighting rising gasoline
prices, the shaky  U.S. economy  and a national debt that’s
approaching $14.3 trillion.  The poll numbers on the economy are a “much better
indicator” of the president’s long-term success, Rothenberg
said. The economy will be tops on voter’s minds “when we get
back to a more normal environment in six months to a year from
now, when people start refocusing on their daily lives and
issues like the rising price of gasoline will be their biggest
concern,” he said.  Bin Laden, 54, was killed almost 10 years after
orchestrating the 2001 attacks that killed almost 3,000 people
at the World Trade Center in New York, the Pentagon in suburban
 Washington  and in a field in  Pennsylvania , where hijacked United
Airlines Flight 93 crashed.  Bush does plan to mark the 10th anniversary of the
terrorist attack at  Ground Zero  in September, Sherzer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  