-- 
Lockheed Martin’s F-35 Fighter Jet Passes Initial Stealth Hurdle

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-05-04T21:09:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/lockheed-martin-s-f-35-fighter-jet-passes-initial-stealth-hurdle.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter
jet has passed its initial radar-evasion testing and there are
no “major potential changes contemplated for any of the stealth
design,” according to the U.S. program office.  The program office has collected radar cross-section
information on the Air Force version of the aircraft and “we
are very pleased, very pleased,” U.S. Navy Vice Admiral  David
Venlet , the program manager, said in an interview.  Still, “this is not a one-test ‘Eureka’ and it’s done,”
he said. The Air Force version will comprise the greatest number
of the 2,457 planned F-35s.  Venlet said he expected similar results from the Navy and
Marine Corps short-takeoff-and-vertical-landing versions when
they are tested. Lockheed Martin in November measured two early-
production Air Force models, which also passed with no “major
variances,” Venlet’s office said.  “So we do not have major concerns,” Venlet said. “We are
always going to pay attention to it, because if you don’t, it
will always be a source of rework and cost growth. But as early
as we are, we are very pleased.”  The F-35 is being developed as the Pentagon’s premier
fifth-generation stealth fighter, capable of penetrating the
heaviest enemy air defense. When fielded, it would join the  B-2 
bomber and the  F-22  fighter in the U.S. stealth jet inventory.  DCMA Concerns  The Pentagon’s  Defense Contract Management Agency  told
congressional investigators that it had “noted difficulties”
with Lockheed Martin manufacturing of the aircraft’s outer
surface, or “mold line.” The process involves detailed
attention to the skin’s finish, fasteners and drain holes that
affect an aircraft’s radar-evading profile.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office, in an F-35
report last month based on DCMA input, said the “inability to
meet the outer mold line requirements could have major impacts
on cost as well as stealth requirements and capabilities.”  “This problem is not expected to be resolved until the
June 2015 time frame, after which a large number of aircraft
will have been built and would need to be retrofitted for any
design changes,” the GAO wrote.  Venlet said the DCMA raised valid concerns and reflected
“signs of the early attention being paid” to outer mold line
manufacturing tolerances “because it can’t get out of
control.”  The DCMA’s reports “are extremely accurate, and we act on
them,” he said. “It triggered attention, drove action.”
Action has been taken to “optimize production for stealth
requirements,” his office said.  Lockheed Martin spokesman Michael Rein said in an e-mail
that “while there are challenges in holding tight tolerance
specifications, all  F-35s  are meeting the requirements and are
compliant in form, fit, function and stealth.”  “Manufacturing improvement processes and changes are in
place to address tolerance challenges,” Rein said, and more
changes are being made “to continually improve the product.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  