-- 
Oil Refiners Seek $329 Million in Tax Compensation, Russia Says

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-04T09:35:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/oil-refiners-seek-329-million-in-tax-compensation-russia-says.html
OAO Bashneft and OAO Tatneft want to
curb losses from proposed changes to  Russia ’s export taxes on
oil by asking for compensation of as much as 9 billion rubles
($329 million) a year, Russia’s Finance Ministry said.  “There is a problem with compensating for losses,” Deputy
Finance Minister Sergei Shatalov told journalists in Moscow. The
ministry still aims to introduce the so-called “60-66” measure
to lower crude export duties to 60 percent and increase taxes on
oil product exports to 66 percent in July, he said.  The 60-66 proposal will create winners and losers among  oil
companies  even though it’s neutral for the budget, Shatalov
said. Bashneft refines more oil than it produces while Tatneft
this year began producing products from Russia’s first new major
refining complex built after the fall of the  Soviet Union .  Oil companies and the government are seeking to find common
ground on taxation that will spur development needed to avoid
output declines without sapping the budget. Russian Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  has urged oil producers to keep Russia’s
world-leading output flat at 505 million tons or 10.1 million
barrels a day for decade.  The government doesn’t want to compensate Bashneft and
Tatneft from the budget, Shatalov said. Alternative ideas for
compensation include reduced mineral extraction tax or even
exemptions for heavy oil, he said.  The 60-66 changes scheduled for July won’t include
proposals on replacing Russia’s mineral extraction tax with a
profit-based tax on oil production, Shatalov said.  The introduction of a profit-based tax will depend on laws
on transfer pricing, he said.  Putin raised May export taxes on gasoline following supply
shortages in Russian regions, at the same time asking the
government to consider reducing excise taxes or mineral
extraction tax to correct any losses.  The  Finance Ministry  does not see a need to reduce mineral
extraction tax as the duty is not a barrier and domestic sales
have become more attractive, Shatalov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 