-- 
Holcim Profit Falls Short of Estimates as Materials Prices Climb

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-05-04T07:27:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/holcim-profit-falls-short-of-estimates-as-materials-prices-climb.html
     May 4 (Bloomberg) --  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-
largest cement maker, reported first-quarter profit that fell
short of analysts’ estimates as raw-material costs climbed and
governments postponed infrastructure projects.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 17 percent to 753 million Swiss francs ($872
million), the Jona, Switzerland-based company said in a
statement today. Royal Bank of Scotland analyst John Messenger
had predicted 843 million francs.  Holcim couldn’t raise prices enough to offset above-average
costs for materials, transportation and fuels, such as coal.
Chief Executive Officer Markus Akermann said today he couldn’t
be sure if  price levels  “will stick.” While a mild winter in
parts of  Europe  helped spur construction activity among private
developers, governments struggling with budget deficits held
back on projects.  “Volume increases were encouraging but insufficient to
make up for input cost increases as yet,” JP Morgan analyst
 Michael Morris  and colleagues said. “There are signs of
recovery emerging as demand is improving in the U.S. and  Asia .”  The Swiss cement maker reported net income of 10 million
francs, compared with a year-earlier loss of 68 million francs.
Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had predicted 109.8 million
francs. Sales declined 1.8 percent to 4.66 billion francs.  Holcim fell as much as 4.6 percent in Zurich trading, the
most in eight months. The stock traded 3.7 percent lower at
72.15 francs as of 9:09 a.m. local time.  Deliveries Rise  Cement deliveries rose 7.2 percent, led by the Asia Pacific
region. The company is expanding capacity in India to 60 million
tons as the country’s growing population spurs spending on
housing, roads, ports and bridges.  “We are still of the opinion that the construction sector
in the mature markets will recover and that the growth in the
emerging markets will continue,” Holcim said.  The strategy to grow in emerging markets mirrors that of
 Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s No. 1 cement maker, which reports first-
quarter earnings tomorrow. Analysts predict a 21 percent
increase in Ebitda to 552 million euros ($819 million).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  