-- 
Tombini Says Brazil to Raise Rates as Long as Needed to Meet Target in ’12

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-05-04T13:15:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/tombini-vows-to-raise-brazil-s-interest-rates-as-long-as-needed.html
Brazilian central bank President
Alexandre Tombini yesterday pledged that policy makers will
raise  interest rates  for as long as needed to bring inflation
back to their target next year.  “It’s not a 100-meter sprint, it’s a long process,”
Tombini said in an interview with Globo News TV station.
“Obviously, the monetary policy instrument that will get
inflation back to its 4.5 percent target in 2012 is the
conventional instrument that is being used, and will continue to
be used for as long as necessary.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is relying on a
mix of higher borrowing costs, measures to scale back credit
growth and spending cuts to bring the fastest inflation in 29
months back to policy makers’ target in 2012. Tombini said
interest rates remain the favored tool for fighting inflation.
The central bank had not changed this strategy when it
introduced curbs on  consumer credit , Tombini said.  Inflation accelerated to 6.44 percent in the month through
mid-April and will exceed the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
target range in the near future, Tombini said.  “It’s highly possible that two more rate increases won’t
be enough, and that we’ll need a bigger dose to suppress
inflation” said Paulo Vieira da Cunha, a former Brazil central
bank director who’s now a partner at Tandem Global Partners LLC
in  New York . “This willingness to say that now they are going
to do it as long as necessary, that’s positive.”  Rate Horizons  The central bank said it will raise interest rates at a
slower pace for a longer period than initially planned as the
country’s inflation outlook worsens, according to the minutes of
its April 19-20 meeting.  The central bank board, led by Tombini, raised the
benchmark Selic rate by 25 basis points, to 12 percent, on April
20 after 50 basis-point increases at each of their two previous
meetings this year.  Tombini predicted that monthly inflation will slow to a
level consistent with the bank’s goals by June. The decision to
hold rates or continue raising them beyond July will hinge on
whether this has happened, said  Jankiel Santos , chief economist
at Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  Santos said he may trim his forecast for interest rate
increases this year, based on Tombini’s comments this evening.
Santos is currently predicting three more quarter point
increases.  Traders are wagering that the central bank will raise
borrowing costs by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to
12.25 percent on June 8, interest-rate futures contracts show.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 12.69 percent at
10:05 a.m. New York time. The real strengthened 0.2 percent to
1.5848 per dollar.  The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  