-- 
Hong Kong’s Home Sales Decline to Two-Year Low on Interest Rate Concerns

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-05-05T08:25:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/hong-kong-s-home-sales-decline-to-two-year-low-on-interest-rate-concerns.html
Hong Kong  home sales fell to the
lowest volume in more than two years in April as government
curbs and rising mortgage rates sapped demand after a price
surge since 2009.  The number of units that changed hands last month declined
37.6 percent from a year earlier to 7,635, according to a
 statement  on the Land Registry website yesterday. That’s the
lowest since March 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The value of transactions slid 26.8 percent from a
year earlier to HK$39 billion ($5 billion), the biggest yearly
drop since June 2010, according to the release.  Housing prices in the city, ranked the world’s most
expensive place to buy a home by  Savills Plc (SVS) , have gained more
than 55 percent in the past two years on record-low mortgage
rates and an influx of buyers from  China . The government in
November increased property transaction taxes and pledged to
boost land supply amid public protests that housing prices are
becoming unaffordable and as the central bank warned about the
risk of a “credit-fueled property bubble.”  “Sentiment has clearly been waning since February,” said
Buggle Lau, chief analyst at Midland Holdings Ltd., Hong Kong’s
biggest publicly traded realtor. “A slowdown is almost
inevitable when there’s a combination of government curbs,
mortgage rate hikes and unpredictable events,” including the
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  on March 11.  Stocks Drop  Hong Kong’s bank  interest rates  will rise on loan demand
and capital outflows when the U.S. increases borrowing costs,
Hong Kong Monetary Authority head  Norman Chan  said on April 28.  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks seven of the
city’s biggest developers, fell 0.2 percent at the close in Hong
Kong, its seventh straight day of decline. The index has lost
4.3 percent this year, compared with the 1 percent gain in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the world’s biggest developer
by value, gained 0.1 percent to HK$120.40, reversing an earlier
0.8 percent retreat.  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , the builder
controlled by Hong Kong richest man  Li Ka-shing , dropped 0.6
percent to HK$118.90.  Some of the city’s biggest lenders, including Standard
Chartered Plc and BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd., raised  mortgage
rates  in April after the warning from the city’s de-facto
central bank, which is prevented by Hong Kong’s currency peg to
the dollar from raising interest rates.  ‘Under Control’  Home prices  in Hong Kong rose for a second consecutive week
in the week ended April 24, extending a recovery from a three-
week, 1.6 percent slide since mid-March when lenders started
raising mortgage terms based on the Hong Kong Interbank Offered
Rate, according to an index compiled by Centaline Property
Agency Ltd. Prices have risen about 10 percent since November.  “The best time for the home market has passed,” said
Eddie Hui, a professor at the real estate and building
department at Hong Kong Polytechnic University. “At the same
time I don’t think we’re at the brink of a crash. The government
measures seem to have brought the market under control
gradually.”  Transaction numbers will probably remain stable over the
next few months as developers plan to sell more new homes after
a brief halt in March, Midland’s Lau said. That will compensate
for a further slowdown in existing-home transactions, he said.  No Price Drop  “We are not seeing a drop in prices,” said Lau. “There’s
still plenty of buying power there and potential sellers aren’t
rushing to sell.”  Hong Kong may auction as many as 52 plots of land this
year, Financial Secretary John Tsang said in his Feb. 23 budget
speech. The land could yield 16,000 units, almost 80 percent
more than from land sold last year.  The government is selling a total of nine sites in the
second quarter, generating 2,650 apartments, and is considering
announcing its land sale schedule at the beginning of each
quarter, Tsang said last month.  A group between Nan Fung Development Ltd. and Wing Tai
Properties Ltd. on April 27 paid a higher-than-estimated
HK$9,934 a square foot for a residential site in the Hung Hom
district in the government’s first land auction in the year.  The government will sell three parcels, including one on
Stubbs Road on  Hong Kong Island , in its next auction on May 12.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  