-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Fall Most in Seven Weeks on China Interest-Rate Concern

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-05-04T08:46:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/hong-kong-stocks-drop-a-sixth-day-on-inflation-concerns-sands-china-falls.html
Hong Kong stocks fell by the most in
almost seven weeks on speculation  China  will further tighten
monetary policy to tame inflation.  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ,  Asia ’s No. 1 casino company by market
value, dropped 1.8 percent after earnings by its Las Vegas-based
parent missed analysts’ estimates. Citic Resources Holdings Ltd.
fell 9.7 percent, the biggest drop in two years, after the oil
and coal producer said it plans to raise HK$2.5 billion ($322
million) by selling shares.  “You’ve got a slower-than-expected economy coupled with
the stickiness of higher inflation, so people in the market are
probably going to wait and see before the next consumer price
index numbers come out,” said Michael Liang, chief investment
officer at Foundation Asset Management (HK) Ltd., which oversees
$120 million. “People may be edgy that the CPI is going to hit
a new high.”  The  Hang Seng  Index dropped 1.4 percent to 23,315.24 in
Hong Kong, the biggest loss in percentage terms since March 17.
The benchmark measure of Hong Kong stocks has fallen 3.4 percent
in the past six trading days, the longest stretch of losses
since August. The slump has pared the year-to-date advance in
the index to 1.2 percent.  All but two stocks in the Hang Seng declined today. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies’ H-shares
fell 1.8 percent to 12,866.59, the lowest since March 24.  Inflation Expectations  China may raise banks’ reserve requirement ratios this
month as new yuan positions at Chinese banks accumulated from
sales of foreign exchange to the central bank may remain high,
the China Securities Journal reported, citing unidentified
people.  “Stabilizing prices and managing inflation expectations
are critical,” the People’s Bank of China said in a first-
quarter monetary policy report published yesterday. Bank reserve
requirements have no “absolute ceiling,” the report said,
restating Governor Zhou Xiaochuan’s comment on April 16.  Futures on the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  dropped 1.4 percent to
23,060. The HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for Hong
Kong stock options, climbed 1.6 percent to 18.31, indicating
options traders expect a swing of 5.2 percent in the Hang Seng
in the next 30 days.  Sands China retreated 1.8 percent to HK$22. Billionaire
 Sheldon Adelson ’s Las Vegas Sands Corp. yesterday said first-
quarter profit excluding items was 37 cents a share, less than
the 44-cent average estimate of 22 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  China Electricity Generators  Citic Resources fell 9.7 percent to HK$1.68. The Chinese
energy supplier plans to issue 1.82 billion rights shares at
HK$1.38 apiece on the basis of three rights shares for every 10
existing shares held, according to a statement to Hong Kong
stock exchange.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. slumped 3.2 percent to
HK$15.38. The nation’s second-largest mobile-phone company was
cut to “underperform” from “neutral” by analysts at
Macquarie Group Ltd.  Zijin Mining Group Co. fell for a sixth day, declining 2.7
percent to HK$5.85. China’s largest gold producer said an
appeals court in  Fujian province  upheld a criminal fine of 20.4
million yuan ($3.1 million) against the company for allowing
waste water to leak from the Zijinshan Gold & Copper Mine.  Datang International Power Generation Co. rose 3.2 percent
to HK$2.95. Dongfang Electric Corp. advanced 6.4 percent to
HK$28.30.  The China Electricity Council has asked the government to
“appropriately” increase power prices to avoid supply
shortfalls, the Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing
unidentified people at the industry body. China’s utility stocks
were raised to “neutral” from “underweight” at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. on the prospect the government may introduce policies
to help the nation’s power producers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  