-- 
Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Compete to Manage Sovcomflot IPO

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-05-04T17:10:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/morgan-stanley-jpmorgan-or-deutsche-to-manage-sovcomflot-ipo.html
Russia has shortlisted Morgan Stanley,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to manage an initial
public offering of OAO Sovcomflot, Russia’s biggest shipper,
this year, the  Economy Ministry  said.  The ministry approached 23 banks as possible advisers for a
three-year asset-sale program and plans to select winners for
most of the deals by early June, Alexei Uvarov, head of the
ministry’s property department, told reporters today in Moscow.  The government plans to raise $30 billion by 2015 from the
sales, helping to improve corporate governance and replenish
state coffers, Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said April 25.
President  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered the government in March to set
the final schedule of the program for the next three years,
saying it would bolster the investment climate.  The  Economy Ministry  has prepared a detailed timeline for
the sales and submitted it to the government, proposing to cap
banks’ fees at 2 percent of a sale’s value, Uvarov said.  Holdings in Sovcomflot, OAO Sberbank, OAO Novorossiysk
Commercial Sea Port and  Murmansk Commercial Seaport  are slated
to be sold this year, Uvarov said. The government expects to
offer stakes in OAO RusHydro, VTB Group and Federal Grid Co.
next year before proceeding with the sale of OAO Rosneft, OAO
Russian Railways and Russian Agricultural Bank in 2013.  23 Banks  Morgan Stanley (MS) , JPMorgan and Deutsche Bank are among 23
foreign and domestic banks selected by the government last year
to help manage its asset sales.  JPMorgan was the third-biggest organizer of Russian equity
and bond sales last year, while Deutsche Bank was ranked 13th
and Morgan Stanley was 28th, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
VTB Capital, the investment-banking unit of VTB, led the
rankings, followed by Troika Dialog, which is being acquired by
Sberbank.  The government raised $3.3 billion in February by selling a
stake in VTB, the nation’s second-largest lender, in the biggest
offering of assets in almost four years.  Bank of America  Merrill
Lynch, Deutsche Bank and VTB Capital were joint bookrunners on
the transaction.  OAO TransContainer, a unit of  Russia ’s rail monopoly, was
the last state-owned company to hold an IPO, raising about $400
million in November 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan in  London  at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 