-- 
Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Counter Bearish Gross on U.S. Debt

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-04T06:52:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/morgan-stanley-goldman-sachs-counter-bearish-gross-on-u-s-debt.html
Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. are dropping bets against Treasuries.  Economic growth is falling short of forecasts and market
participants may need to reduce their yield predictions,  Jim Caron , the New York-based global head of interest-rate strategy
at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report yesterday. Goldman Sachs
cited  Federal Reserve  comments and a slower-than-forecast pace
of inflation in a report the same day.  A rally in Treasuries is confounding traders and economists
who predicted yields would rise as the economy improved. The
opposite has happened as data showed gross domestic product
growth slowed and housing market is struggling to rebound.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said he is sticking to his bearish
view on  U.S. debt .  “We have recently turned neutral from bearish on bonds,”
Caron wrote. “We are also tactically looking to buy bonds if
yields rise. Consensus forecasts for yields are at risk.”  Treasuries returned 1.2 percent in April, the most since
August, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. Ten-year
yields fell to a six-week low of 3.23 percent today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes yielded 3.24 percent as
of 7:35 a.m. in  London .  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, two of the 20 primary
dealers authorized to trade directly with the Federal Reserve,
both said in their reports they may turn more bearish later.  Surprise Index  Yields slid last month as the Commerce Department said on
April 28 that GDP growth slowed to an annual rate of 1.8 percent
in the first quarter, from 3.1 percent in the previous three
months. Residential real-estate prices dropped 3.3 in the 12
months to February, the most in more than a year, S&P/Case-
Shiller data showed April 26.  The Citigroup U.S. Economic Surprise Index fell to negative
6.7 yesterday, the lowest level since December, indicating that
economic data are falling short of forecasts by the steepest
degree this year.  Banks and securities companies surveyed by Bloomberg
predict Treasury yields will keep rising. The 10-year rate may
climb to 3.59 by June 30 and 3.91 percent by year-end, the
companies said, with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  Pimco’s Gross said a federal funds target at virtually zero
posed a threat to bondholders amid quickening inflation and
negative real yields.  Real Yield  “There should be little doubt that simply holding
Treasuries at these yield levels for an extended period of time
represents an abdication of responsibility,” Gross wrote in his
monthly outlook on Pimco’s  website  yesterday.  Gross, 67, bet against U.S. government-related debt in
March and boosted cash to be the largest of the company’s $241
billion Total Return Fund holdings.  The Fed has kept its target rate for overnight lending in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The real yield, or the difference between the  consumer
price index  and the 10-year Treasury rate, declined to 0.55
percent yesterday, the least since 2008. Based on two-year
Treasuries, the real yield is negative 2.1 percent.  Goldman Sachs dropped its recommendation for investors to
bet against five-year notes, Francesco Garzarelli, the London-
based chief interest-rate strategist, wrote in his report.  Fuel Prices  “The trade performed well through mid-April until a
combination of dovish Fed comments, slightly softer-than-
expected inflation prints, and ongoing concerns that high fuel
prices will hit consumer spending” triggered demand for bonds,
Garzarelli wrote.  Fed Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said on
April 1 the recovery is “tenuous.”  Janet Yellen , vice chairman
of the Fed’s Board of Governors, said April 11 the increase in
food and fuel costs will have only a temporary impact on prices
and  consumer spending .  The consumer-price index excluding food and energy rose 0.1
percent in March, less than the 0.2 percent increase projected
in a Bloomberg survey, the Labor Department said April 15. Oil
rose to a 31-month high this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 