-- 
Bovespa Index Falls to Lowest Since July as Commodities Decline

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-05-04T21:04:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/most-brazil-stocks-advance-as-earnings-offset-commodities-drop.html
The Bovespa stock index fell for a
third day to its lowest level since July as commodities prices
slid and and traders raised bets for higher borrowing costs.  Iron-ore miner  Vale SA (VALE3)  fell to the lowest in more than
seven months. Oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  followed crude
prices lower. Homebuilder MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA led
declines by companies that depend on credit growth.  The Bovespa fell 1.1 percent to 63,615.50 at the close of
Sao Paulo trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time after earlier
rising 0.8 percent. The gauge has tumbled 3.8 percent in the
past three trading sessions. Forty-seven stocks on the index
fell, while 21 rose. The real weakened 1.9 percent to 1.6174 per
 U.S. dollar .  “Companies’ earnings have been somewhat positive so far,
but foreign investors are keeping a distance from the Brazilian
stock market, and local investors are not willing to move to
equities while inflation keeps rising,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who
helps oversee 70 million reais ($43 million) at Leme
Investimentos in Florianopolis, said in a phone interview.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said yesterday he
would increase  interest rates  for as long as needed to tame
inflation. “The monetary policy instrument that will get
inflation back to its 4.5 percent target in 2012 is the
conventional instrument that is being used, and will continue to
be used for as long as necessary,” he said in an interview with
Globo News TV.  Copper Sinks  In the interest rates futures market, yields on contracts
due January 2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose 3
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 12.34 percent. Yields
on contracts maturing January 2014 increased 5 basis points to
12.67 percent.  MRV slumped 4.8 percent to 12.98 reais, the most since
March 24.  Copper, a bellwether for global growth, fell the most in
eight weeks on concern  China , the world’s largest consumer of
the metal, may take more steps to tighten credit, potentially
curbing demand.  China may again raise bank reserve-requirement ratios this
month, the China Securities Journal reported today, citing
unidentified people. “Stabilizing prices and managing inflation
expectations are critical,” the People’s Bank of China said in a
first-quarter monetary policy report published yesterday.  Crude oil dropped a third day after an industry report
showed that U.S. inventories increased.  Vale  slid 1.6 percent to 43.86 reais. Petrobras dropped 0.5
percent to 25.32 reais.  CSN Profit  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, Brazil’s third-biggest
steelmaker, rose 0.7 percent to 22.95 reais after first-quarter
net-income increased to 617.5 million reais from 448.9 million
reais a year earlier, according to a company filing.  CSN, as the company is known, is expanding its iron-ore
business after prices for the mineral almost tripled in the past
two years. Iron-ore revenue more than doubled to 1.2 billion
reais from a year earlier, boosting profit even as steel output
and prices declined, CSN said.  Multiplus SA (MPLU3) , the frequent-flyer unit of Brazilian airline
Tam SA, gained 2.3 percent to 32.88 reais after first quarter
jumped more than ninefold from a year earlier to 70.9 million
reais ($44.3 million).  AmBev’s Drops  Cia. de Bebidas das Americas slid 0.3 percent to 49.65
reais after earlier gaining 0.5 percent.  Latin America ’s largest
brewer reported first-quarter net profit of 2.09 billion reais,
a 27 percent increase from a year earlier, according to a
statement. AmBev, as the company is known, also said it expects
the profit margin for its Brazilian beer business to improve
further in 2011 as it faces fewer pressures on costs than in
2010.  Last year, AmBev’s margin on earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization was affected by can imports and
capacity constraints in the north and northeast of  Brazil , the
company said in its earnings report. Those constraints will be
alleviated with its investment plans for the region, the company
said.  Intermedica Sistema de Saude SA, a closely held Brazilian
health-insurance company, named Glauco Abdala as chief executive
officer,  Valor Economico  reported.  Abdala replaces Paulo Barbanti, Intermedica’s founder, who
will be the company’s chairman, the Sao Paulo-based newspaper
reported, citing Barbanti and Abdala. The new head will prepare
Intermedica for a possible initial share offering in 2013, Valor
said.  The Bovespa slumped 8.2 percent this year after declines in
 oil companies , homebuilders and banks outweighed a rally in
telecom shares. The index trades at 10.6 times analysts’
earnings estimates, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 13.6 for the Shanghai
Composite Index, 7.3 for  Russia ’s Micex, and 15.2 for  India ’s
Sensex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  