-- 
House Votes to Bar U.S. Funding for Insurance Exchanges

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-05-04T21:20:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/house-votes-to-bar-u-s-funding-for-insurance-exchanges-1-.html
The Republican-controlled U.S. House,
trying again to dismantle last year’s health-care overhaul,
voted to ban federal grant money to help states set up health-
insurance exchanges.  Democrats said there’s no chance the Senate will approve
the measure. The House passed it 238-183 yesterday over
objections from President  Barack Obama , who last year pushed
through Congress the law to expand health-care coverage. The law
requires Americans to get insurance, with help from subsidies
and purchasing exchanges.  The House followed up today by passing a bill to ban
federal funds to build health-care centers in schools, as
provided in the overhaul law. It also approved legislation to
prevent any federal funds from being used for health benefits
that include abortion coverage. U.S. policy already prohibits
federal money from being used for abortions except in cases of
rape, incest or to save the mother’s life.  Republicans, who took control of the House from Democrats
in November’s elections, have vowed to undo the health-care law
and in January voted to repeal it altogether. The repeal measure
hasn’t advanced in the Democratic-controlled Senate.  $14 Billion  Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, sponsored the
legislation on health-insurance exchanges and said it would save
more than $14 billion by 2021.  “Repealing the fund will protect precious taxpayer
resources at a time of record red ink,” Upton said on the House
floor yesterday. The grants will create “an unlimited tap on
the federal Treasury.”  Democrats said the bill is another effort to prolong the
debate over the health-care law and is a distraction from more
important issues.  “We’re not focusing on the big issues the American people
care about with this bill,” said Representative Henry Waxman, a
California Democrat. “This is another piece of legislation that
is going nowhere. The Senate will never pass it and the
president will never sign it.”  The Obama administration said the legislation erodes
efforts to make health care more available and affordable.  Compare Prices  “Exchanges will allow Americans to compare prices and
health insurance plans and decide which quality, affordable
option is right for them,” the administration said in a
statement. It said Obama’s aides would recommend a veto if the
measure cleared Congress. The president’s aides also would
recommend a veto of the abortion measure.  The grants are needed for states to develop the exchanges,
and the legislation would mean about 500,000 Americans who the
current law envisions would be insured in 2015 would go without
coverage, according to the statement from the White House.  Republicans say the bill on school health-care centers,
sponsored by Representative Michael Burgess of  Texas , would save
$100 million from 2012 to 2021, citing figures from the
 Congressional Budget Office .  The Obama administration also objects to this legislation,
saying expanding health centers will improve children’s access
to primary care. It would be unlikely to get a vote in the
Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  