-- 
Pac-10 Signs TV Deal With ESPN, Fox; May Be Biggest for Any College League

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-05-04T17:28:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/pac-10-signs-tv-deal-with-espn-fox-may-be-biggest-for-any-college-league.html
The  Pac-10 Conference  signed a 12-
year, $3 billion television contract with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN
and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox network, the largest rights package for a
college sports league.  The agreement includes the conference’s football and
basketball games and some Olympic sports, and allows the Pac-10
to hold back other events for a wholly owned cable channel it
plans to introduce in 2012.  Proskauer , the New York-based law firm representing the
Pac-10 Conference in its negotiations with ESPN and Fox, placed
the value of the agreement at $3 billion, or about $250 million
a year, according to a news release distributed on  Business
Wire . That’s more than four times the $60 million the Pac-10
received from ESPN and Fox this year, according to the
 Associated Press , which cited an anonymous person familiar with
the deal.  Neal Pilson, a former president of CBS Sports and now a
media consultant, said the Pac-10 benefitted from an improving
economy and strong public interest in college sports.  “Each year these schools turn out 30,000, 40,000, 50,000
graduates and it keeps replicating,” Pilson said in a telephone
interview. “It’s not like a TV series that wears out after five
years, it’s a constant renewal of customers. Fifty years from
now, people will still be rooting for USC and the Rose Bowl and
the traditional college rivalries.”  Conference Payouts  The ESPN and Fox rights fees surpass the previous record of
$220 million Fox pays the Big Ten, according to  ESPN.com .  The website also said the Atlantic Coast Conference’s
contract with ESPN pays an average $155 million per year, the
Big 12’s contract with Fox pays an average $130 million per year
and the  Southeastern Conference ’s agreement with ESPN pays an
average $205 million per year. The Pac-10 changes its name to
the Pac-12 in July.  “The increased revenue that will come to the Pac-12 comes
at a critically important time given the unprecedented financial
challenges higher education and athletes are facing,” Pac-10
Commissioner Larry Scott said at a press conference. “Make no
mistake, today’s announcement has preserved student athlete
opportunities and maintained sports within the conference.”  The conference sponsors about 250 sports teams and 6,000
athletes, according to Scott, who said he hopes the increased
revenue will help schools that have cut sports teams for
financial reasons to add them back.  Good Timing  Pilson said the conference also benefitted from good
timing.  ESPN recently lost its bid for the National Collegiate
Athletic Association men’s basketball tournament and needed to
take a stand, and Fox Sports, a West Coast-based business,
didn’t want to get “aced out of the picture,” Pilson said.  “When you have companies that feel they need a particular
rights deal, the dollar signs go up,” Pilson said. “God bless
the Pac-10.”  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Turner Broadcasting agreed
in April 2010 on a $10.8 billion, 14-year contract for
broadcast, Internet and wireless rights on an expanded men’s
college basketball championship tournament.  ESPN signed a four-year deal in November 2008 for the
rights to the Bowl Championship Series football games that began
in January 2011. It pays an average $125 million per year,
according to the Sports Business Daily.  The Walnut Creek, California-based Pac-10, which will be
renamed the Pac-12 in July with the addition of the University
of Utah and the University of Colorado, also plans to start a
digital network to show games online that aren’t on ESPN, Fox or
its own network.  Other schools in the conference are the University of
 Arizona , Arizona State University, the University of  Oregon ,
Oregon State University, Stanford University, the  University of
California , the University of Southern  California , UCLA, the
University of  Washington  and Washington State University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  