-- 
Pakistan Stocks Fall Most in Ten Weeks on U.S. Aid, Risk Concern

-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-05-04T11:42:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/pakistan-stocks-fall-most-in-ten-weeks-on-u-s-aid-risk-concern.html
Pakistan ’s stocks fell the most in two
and a half months on speculation the U.S. may reduce aid after
 Osama bin Laden  was killed near the nation’s capital and as
investors fled riskier assets amid inflation concerns in
emerging markets.  The benchmark Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index fell 2.4
percent, the most since Feb. 25, to 11,672.05 at the 3:30 p.m.
close. Four companies on the 100-member index rose, 87 declined
and prices of nine remained unchanged.  Oil & Gas Development Co., the biggest fuel explorer, slid
3.7 percent as crude prices extended declines to a third day.
 National Bank of Pakistan (NBP)  slumped the most in six weeks after
the U.S. senator who sponsored a bill tripling non-military aid
to Pakistan called for hearings to assess their relationship.  “Pakistan’s situation after Osama’s killing is quite
worrisome for investors,” said Shahrukh Naqvi, head of sales at
Invest Capital & Securities Ltd. in Karachi. “People in such
times prefer to sit with cash instead of being invested.”  Pakistan’s stocks also dropped on concern faster inflation
in  developing countries  will spur more increases in  interest
rates . The nation’s consumer prices rose 13.04 percent in April
from a year earlier after a 13.16 percent gain in March, Arif
Cheema, director general of the Federal Bureau of Statistics
said May 3.  India’s equities dropped for an eighth day today after the
central bank unexpectedly boosted rates yesterday by half a
percentage point. China’s Shanghai Composite Index slid the most
in two months after the government said taming inflation was
“critical.” The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 0.8 percent.  Overseas Investors  The Karachi stocks gauge has fallen 2.6 percent this year,
driving down estimated earnings to 6.9 times, the lowest among
benchmark measures in  Asia . Global funds bought $235.5 million
worth of Pakistani shares in the nine months ended March 31,
compared with net sales of $183 million a year ago, according to
Karachi-based  State Bank  of Pakistan.  The death of bin Laden has prompted immediate calls from
U.S. lawmakers to re-evaluate the relationship with Pakistan,
where the al-Qaeda leader was found and killed less than 35
miles from the capital, Islamabad.  Democratic Senator  John Kerry  of Massachusetts, an
architect of a 2009 bill committing $1.5 billion annually to
Pakistan for five years, called for a new round of hearings to
“assess the strategic relationship” between the two countries
and to examine how to arrive at an “acceptable end-state” in
Afghanistan.  U.S. assistance for Pakistan is “critically important”
and it remains too early to “jump to conclusions” about
Pakistan’s overall aid program following the killing of  bin
Laden  in the country, Moody’s Investors Service Vice President
Aninda Mitra said in Hanoi today.  Pakistan intends to address any allegations or shortfalls
on its part, said  Husain Haqqani , the country’s ambassador to
Washington. The most common questions that have been raised are
whether Pakistan was complicit in protecting bin Laden, was
over-confident in its own abilities, or overlooked evidence of
his presence, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  