-- 
Peru to ‘Shield’ $30 Billion in Pension Funds From Humala, Minister Says

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-05-04T19:07:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/peru-to-shield-30-billion-in-pension-funds-from-humala-minister-says.html
Peru will seek to toughen laws to
prevent presidential front-runner Ollanta Humala from tampering
with $30 billion managed by private pension funds should he win
next month’s election, Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said.  Benavides, in an interview, said he will seek support for
the legislation at a Cabinet meeting today “to shield from
government interference” the assets managed by units of Peru’s
 Credicorp Ltd (BAP) ,  Spain ’s Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,  ING
Groep NV (INGA)  of the Netherlands, and  Canada ’s Bank of Nova Scotia.  The government is concerned that Humala, a one-time ally of
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , may seek to use the funds’
assets to finance public spending if he holds onto a lead in
polls and wins next month’s runoff vote, Benavides said.
Pointing to Argentina’s nationalization of about $24 billion in
private pensions in 2008, Benavides said the proposed law would
prevent the next government from seizing pension assets or
forcing fund managers to buy public debt.  “You’ve seen what happened in Argentina, and we want to
avoid that,” Benavides, 65, said in an interview in Lima
yesterday. “It’s a trend, in certain countries that are making
a mess of what they are doing.”  Humala’s campaign  platform  includes proposals to force
Peruvians to pay into a state pension. He also pledges
introducing a free  retirement plan  for people 65 or older.  ‘Significant Step’  Humala said April 26 the retirement plan will be financed
by higher  tax revenue  and not assets from private pension funds,
which he vowed not to touch.  Benavides said existing legislation protecting private
pension funds isn’t clear enough and he wants it “in black and
white” that it will be a constitutional offence for the
government to interfere with the retirement industry.  “It would be a very, very significant step to ease
people’s concern,” he said.  Voters’ fears that Humala might nationalize the pensions
industry probably contributed to the narrowing of his lead in
polls before the June 5 runoff against, former interior minister
Fernando Rospigliosi said April 29.  Peru ’s stocks, bonds and currency surged today after a poll
showed Humala and Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori running neck and
neck.  Humala had 39 percent support and Fujimori had 38 percent
in the poll by Lima-based Ipsos Apoyo, which was commissioned by
Morgan Stanley. The nationwide poll from April 23-30 had a
margin of error of 2.2 percentage points. A poll by Ipsos Apoyo
taken April 16-21 gave Humala a six-point lead over Fujimori.  Bond Sale Shelved  Humala’s surge into first place in Peru’s presidential race
triggered the biggest slump in stocks since October 2008 last
month and pushed yields on the government’s sol-denominated
bonds to a two-year high, on concern he will increase state
control over the economy and jeopardize $50 billion of foreign
investment that the government expects to fuel growth in the
next three years.  The government has shelved plans to sell as much as $1.2
billion of bonds in the local or international market after the
surge in yields, said Benavides. The outcome of the vote will
determine how soon the government can return to the  debt market ,
he said.  Benavides, who became finance minister in September, said
that he doesn’t want Peruvian pension funds to be subject to
government tampering like those in other countries in the
region.  Regional Precedent  Argentina  in 2001 confiscated about $3.2 billion of pension
savings before the country stopped servicing its debt. In 2008,
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner nationalized the
retirement system to compensate for falling tax revenue.  Last year, Bolivian President  Evo Morales , a Chavez ally,
seized control of his country’s private pension funds as part of
a campaign to increase state control of the economy.  Peru’s four private pension funds have more than doubled
their assets since 2005 on rising revenue from contributions and
profits, according to the country’s pension regulator. The funds
have about 4.7 million members, up from 3.7 million five years
ago.  The fund managers are concerned that the introduction of a
state pension based on obligatory contributions, proposed by
Humala, might mean the demise of the private pension system.  Forcing workers to pay into a state pension scheme reduces
the incentive to pay into a private plan, said Alejandro Perez- Reyes, chief investment officer at Prima AFP, the biggest of the
four funds.  “It’s difficult to see how the two could co-exist,”
Perez-Reyes told reporters in  Lima  today.  Investment Delays  Benavides said that jitters regarding a possible Humala
presidency are leading companies to delay investment, which will
hinder economic growth, said Benavides.  Peru has posted average annual growth of 7.2 percent since
2006, the fastest in  Latin America . Booming consumer demand
coupled with private investment in mines,  power plants  and
infrastructure fueled an 8.8 percent expansion last year.  Gross domestic product will rise by a less-than-expected
6.5 percent this year, though will still be the fastest in the
region, he said. The ministry previously saw 2011 growth at 7
percent. The fall in private investment will be the equivalent
of 4 percent of GDP, he said.  Timeline  Next year’s growth will depend who wins the election,
Benavides said.  “Consumer demand continues strong, but obviously if
there’s less investment, less employment generated, that will
eventually hit consumer demand,” the minister said.  Benavides was a senior advisor to Illinois-based  CF
Industries , the world’s second largest producer of nitrogen
fertilizer, when he was invited by President  Alan Garcia  to
become his fourth finance minister.  He previously headed Banco Internacional del Peru, the
nation’s fourth-largest bank, from 1994 to 2007, and served in
the government of President Fernando Belaunde in the early 1980.  Benavides said he expects Congress to pass the pensions law
before the current session ends July 28.  A congressional committee unanimously approved last week
the government’s proposal to increase the limit on pension
funds’ overseas investments to 50 percent from 30 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 