-- 
Peru Freezes $1.2 Billion Bond Sale After Yields Jump on Humala Concern

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-05-04T17:05:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/peru-freezes-1-2-billion-bond-sale-after-yields-jump-on-humala-concern.html
Peru  has shelved plans to sell as much
as $1.2 billion of bonds after yields on the nation’s debt
jumped to a two-year high on concern former military rebel
Ollanta Humala may win next month’s presidential runoff.  Peru’s government will wait until demand for the country’s
debt recovers before selling bonds in the domestic or
international market, Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said in
an interview in Lima yesterday.  Peru’s stocks, bonds and currency plunged after Humala, a
one-time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , won the first
round of presidential elections last month. Humala, who pledges
to increase state control over  South America ’s sixth-largest
economy, faces Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori in a June 5 runoff.
The outcome of the vote will determine how soon the government
can return to the  debt market , Benavides said.  “It’s not a good time,” Benavides said. “We have to wait
until the noise settles down. It will all depend also on who
gets elected.”  Humala, who in 2000 lead a military uprising to protest
corruption in Alberto Fujimori’s government, has pledged to
raise taxes on miners and renegotiate contracts with foreign
companies if he’s elected. His campaign platform also proposes
renegotiating free-trade agreements, including one with the
U.S., that the government expects will double Peru’s exports to
$70 billion within five years.  Pension Concern  Reflecting concern that Humala might tamper with $30
billion managed by private pension funds to finance public
spending should he win, Benavides said the government will seek
to toughen laws against an Argentina-like asset grab.  Humala’s campaign platform includes proposals to force
Peruvians to pay into a state pension. He also pledges
introducing a free  retirement plan  for people 65 or older. Last
week he said that the retirement plan will be financed by higher
 tax revenue  and not assets from private pension funds which he
vowed not to touch.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark sol-denominated bond
due August 2020 rose to 7.4 percent on April 27, its highest
since March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield rose 94 basis points during March and April, the biggest
two-month rise since 2008.  The cost of protecting Peru’s debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps rose to the highest since
July 2009 last week.  New Polls  Concern that Humala will nationalize the pensions industry
probably contributed to the narrowing of his lead in polls ahead
of the next month’s vote, former Interior Minister Fernando Rospigliosi said April 29.  Stocks, bonds and the sol rallied today after the results
of a poll showed the candidates running neck and neck, said
Gonzalo Navarro, head trader at  Banco Santander  in Lima. The
poll by Lima-based Ipsos Apoyo, commissioned by Morgan Stanley,
showed Humala favored by 39 percent of those surveyed compared
with 38 percent for Fujimori. The nationwide poll from April 23-
30 had a margin of error of 2.2 percentage points.  The yield on Peru’s 8.75 percent dollar bond due 2033 fell
15 basis points to 6.12 percent at 12:04 p.m. New York time,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The sol gained 0.2 percent to
2.8207 per  U.S. dollar .  ‘Volatility’  Peru issued a record $2.5 billion of bonds in the
international market in November. Benavides said April 7 that
the country was seeking to sell as much as $1.2 billion of bonds
to prepay more expensive debt before President  Alan Garcia 
leaves office in July.  The nation’s public debt fell to $33.4 billion last year
from $33.8 billion at the end of 2009. Public debt was
equivalent to 23 percent of gross domestic product last year,
compared with 38 percent of GDP in 2005.  “Obviously we have to hold back because of all this
volatility,” Benavides said.  The government will be able to finance 2011 spending plans
using proceeds from last year’s issuance and tax revenue that
has been boosted by higher prices for Peru’s copper and gold
exports, Benavides said.  “Tax revenue has been higher than expected so there’s no
problem on that end,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 