-- 
Philippine Bonds Decline Ahead of Expected Interest-Rate Rise

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-05-04T10:33:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/philippine-bonds-decline-ahead-of-policy-meeting-peso-weakens.html
Philippine three-year  government bonds 
fell, causing the biggest jump in yields since February, on
speculation the central bank will raise  interest rates  tomorrow.  Inflation in April quickened to 4.4 percent, the fastest
pace in a year, according to the median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey before a 9 a.m. report tomorrow.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will increase its benchmark rate by
a quarter of a percentage point to 4.50 percent, according to 12
of 16 economists in a separate survey. Three expect no change
and one forecasts a half a percentage point rise.  “The central bank must be ahead of the curve even as some
in the market may have scaled back their outlook on inflation,”
said Marcelo Ayes, senior vice president at Rizal Commercial
Banking Corp. in  Manila .  The yield on the 6.25 percent note due January 2014 climbed
13 basis points to 4.60 percent as of 5:51 p.m. in Manila,
according to Tradition Financial Services. That was the biggest
daily gain since Feb. 10. The peso advanced 0.1 percent to 42.87
per dollar, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  The central bank included a 25-peso wage increase in its
consumer-price forecasts, BusinessWorld reported citing Governor
Amando Tetangco. Crude oil is trading at more than $110 per
barrel, the average cost the central bank assumed in its
inflation outlook, Tetangco said on April 29.  Bangko Sentral will consider the April price data coming
out tomorrow, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said in an
interview today in Manila. Policy makers are not seeing runaway
inflation as strong farm output and gains in the peso have
helped damp price pressures, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  