-- 
Pimco Bets on Weaker Euro, Stronger Won, Aussie, Singapore Dollar

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-05-04T15:03:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/pimco-bets-on-weaker-euro-stronger-won-aussie-singapore-dollar.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest mutual fund, said it’s betting
the euro will fall because its current strength doesn’t
adequately reflect the risk that the union may disintegrate.  The fund is buying currencies of countries that have strong
growth, low levels of debt, and where central banks are
tightening monetary policy, such as Australia, Singapore,  South
Korea  and Sweden, Thomas Kressin, head of European foreign
exchange at Pimco in Munich, said in an interview yesterday.  “The euro is overvalued,” he said in London. “Investors
should, and will eventually, demand higher premiums to
compensate for political and economic risks which are
structurally embedded in the institutional setup of the euro
area. That’s why we expect the trade-weighted euro exchange rate
to depreciate from here.”  Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes showed the euro has
risen 3.9 percent in the past three months, making it the best
performer after the Swiss franc among the 10 currencies tracked
by the measure. The 17-nation currency has gained even as the
currency bloc grapples with a sovereign debt crisis that forced
 Greece , Ireland and Portugal to seek bailouts from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  Kressin said Pimco has been bearish on the dollar, the yen
and the euro in the past few years and it preferred currencies
from emerging economies, especially in  Asia . South Korea will
grow 4.5 percent this year while the  U.S. economy  expands 2.9
percent and the euro region 1.7 percent, according to median
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.  “Given growth and rising inflationary pressures we’ve seen
in the emerging markets, currencies have become an additional
tool for policy makers there to reduce the pressure,” Kressin
said. “In the developed markets, the same criteria applies.
That’s why we find the Australian dollar, the Norwegian krone
and the Swedish krona attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  