-- 
Plains Rainbow Pipe May Be Shut Days or ‘Longer,’ ERCB Says

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-05-04T19:20:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/plains-s-28-000-barrel-alberta-oil-spill-singular-failure-1-.html
A section of Plains Midstream Canada
LP’s Rainbow pipeline in northern  Alberta , which was shut April
29 after leaking 28,000 barrels of crude, may be out of service
for days or longer, according to a regulator.  “We haven’t drawn any conclusions as of yet,” said Davis
Sheremata, a spokesman for the Alberta Energy Resources
Conservation Board. “That line will not be put back into
service until our staff are 100 percent sure it can be operated
safely and we are not going to see another leak like this. That
could be days or it could be longer.”  The leak was probably a “singular failure and not a
systemic problem,” the company said today in statement on its
 website . The leak has been contained within an area about 0.5
mile (0.8 kilometer) by 150 feet (46 meters), according to the 1
a.m. update.  Plains has completed repairs on the pipeline and has
recovered about 1,900 barrels of spilled crude, the company said
today in updates on its website. The restart of the 220,000-
barrel-a-day pipeline is contingent on regulatory approval.  The Rainbow pipeline ships condensate along with sweet, or
low-sulfur oil, and heavy crude, according to Plains’s website.  Trucking Crude  Harvest Operations Corp.’s Red Earth and Hay River
conventional oil production operations have been affected by the
pipeline outage, said Jeremy Dietz, a spokesman for the trust.
Red Earth’s average production in 2010 was 2,800 barrels a day
and Hay River had 5,850 barrels a day of output last year.  “We’re using all available trucking and storage
options,” he said. “For the month of May we don’t anticipate
any reduction in production levels or material impact, assuming
the line restarts in the next week.”  Penn West  Petroleum Ltd. is trucking crude oil, placing it
in storage and using alternative pipelines after the disruption
Jason Fleury, a spokesman for Penn West, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. The Calgary-based company produces about
100,000 barrels a day of crude in northern Alberta.  “It affects us for sure, but we’ve got options to move
crude via other lines, you can truck and we’ve got storage
capabilities,” said Fleury. No production has been shut in, he
said.  Trucking Changes  EnerMAX Services Inc., a trucking company in Alberta, is
moving crude along different routes because of the pipeline
disruption, Sean McKelvey, a business development manager at the
company, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Crude that is typically moved south from the Rainbow Lake
area to Valleyview, Alberta, is now being moved from the Rainbow
Lake area west to Gordondale, Alberta, and the Boundary Lake
region along the Alberta-British Columbia border, he said.  A school in Little Buffalo, Alberta, for children in
kindergarten through grade 12 was shut for a fourth consecutive
day today after students complained of nausea, headaches and
dizziness following the leak, Brian Alexander, the principal,
said in a telephone interview.  The 500-person Native community was visited by a Plains
representative yesterday, he said. The school is about 1.6 miles
from the pipeline rupture, according to Alexander.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  