-- 
Polish Manufacturing Slows in April, Weakening Arguments for Higher Rates

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-05-04T07:21:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/polish-manufacturing-slows-in-april-weakening-arguments-for-higher-rates.html
Poland’s purchasing managers’ index, a
gauge of manufacturing, unexpectedly slowed in April, bolstering
arguments against the central bank’s lifting interest rates at
this month’s policy meeting.  The PMI fell to 54.4 from 54.8 in March, HSBC Holdings Plc
said today in an e-mailed summary of a survey by  Markit
Economics . The median estimate of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 55. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  “Output, new orders and new export orders all expanded as
well, but at marginally slower rates,” Murat Ulgen, HSBC’s
Chief Economist for Central and Eastern Europe and sub-Saharan
 Africa , said in a statement accompanying the release.  The Narodowy Bank Polski’s Monetary Policy Council convenes
next week to decide whether to raise its benchmark interest rate
for a third time this year. European manufacturing growth
accelerated more than estimated in April, driven by higher
output in Germany and  France , the two largest importers of
Polish products, pointed to the east European country’s recovery
gathering pace.  Polish inflation accelerated to 4.3 percent in March, the
fastest in 2 1/2 years.  The zloty weakened after the report and traded at 3.9383
per euro at 9:15 a.m. in Warsaw, unchanged on the day. That
compares with 3.9353 before the survey was published.  Markit’s report said that input costs “continued to rise
rapidly in April, reflecting growing demand” for metals,
chemicals, foodstuffs, fuel and paper.  “Suppliers’ delivery times continued to lengthen in
April,” Ulgen said. “Firms stated the delays were a result of
raw material shortages, which is in line with the sustained high
level of the input price index.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  