-- 
Portugal Bailout Will Include 12 Billion Euros for Banks

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-05-04T13:07:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/portugal-bailout-will-include-12-billion-euros-for-banks-1-.html
Portugal ’s bailout package will
include 12 billion euros ($17.8 billion) for the country’s banks
to help them through a funding squeeze during the debt crisis,
Prime Minister Jose Socrates’s office said.  Portugal reached agreement yesterday with officials
preparing the European Union-led bailout on a package comprising
as much as 78 billion euros in aid and more time to reduce the
country’s budget deficit.  Portuguese banks had urged the government to request aid as
downgrades by credit-rating companies threatened their ability
to borrow in wholesale markets. European Central Bank funding to
Portuguese banks stood at 39 billion euros in March after
peaking at 49.1 billion euros in August.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ’s chief executive officer, Ricardo Salgado, said yesterday that ECB financing increased in the
first quarter as the bank sold less than half the international
loans it made available. The Portuguese lender said this week
that it had agreed to sell a stake in  Brazil ’s  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) 
that will boost its core tier 1 capital ratio to 8.2 percent.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) , Portugal’s biggest publicly
traded bank by assets, is carrying out a capital increase of as
much as 1.25 billion euros and boosting its core tier 1 capital
ratio to between 8.5 percent and 9 percent.  The government has asked banks to have a core tier 1 ratio
of 8 percent by the end of 2011. Espirito Santo’s Salgado said
he expected the bailout agreement to raise those requirements
further. Banco Comercial and Espirito Santo have both said they
don’t intend to use state aid.  Portugal’s government will try to sell its shares in EDP-
Energias de Portugal SA and REN-Redes Energeticas Nacionais SA
by the end of this year under the aid package, news agency Lusa
reported today, citing the text of the agreement. The country
will also suspend construction of a high-speed railway link
between Lisbon and Oporto for three years, Lusa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  