-- 
Pricey Picasso, Ghost Haunts, Marc Almond Sings: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-05-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/pricey-picasso-ghost-haunts-dancing-prince-marc-almond-london-weekend.html
Watch a pretty commoner wed prince
charming as your weekend starter in London.  Not  Kate Middleton , the girl-next-door now married to
 Prince William , but Cinderella, who bags a wealthy blue-blood in
the  Royal Ballet  production ending Friday.  Her ugly sisters, wigged and feathered males, look like
drag queens as they trip and tumble across the stage. Don’t miss
Cinderella’s own graceful tiptoe, en pointe, down the stairs.  Yuhui Choe plays the beauty, and Sergei Polunin, her prince
in “Cinderella,” choreographed by Frederick Ashton.
Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7240-1200.  If you are looking for somewhere grand to dine near the
Royal Opera House, Rules traces its history to 1798 and counts
many members of the royal family among its customers during the
reigns of nine monarchs. Its food includes steak-and-kidney
pudding and shepherd’s pie. Information:  http://www.rules.co.uk/ 
and +44-20-7836-5314.  Saturday  Madame Arcati is someone most newlyweds could live without.  She’s the nutty medium in “ Blithe Spirit ” -- hired by
author Charles Condomine as he researches spiritualism. Working
overtime, she conjures up the ghost of Condomine’s first wife,
unsettling his marriage to wife No. 2.  A mockery is made of matrimony, on a chic Art Deco set.  “Blithe Spirit” by Noel Coward is at the Apollo Theatre
on Shaftesbury Avenue, with a matinee performance at 2:30 p.m.
Information:  http://www.nimaxtheatres.co.uk  or +44-844-482-9671.  Gauthier Soho is a smart Michelin-starred French restaurant
that’s convenient for the Apollo. There are lunch and pre-
theater seasonal menus. Information:
 http://www.gauthiersoho.co.uk/  and +44-20-7494-3111.  Saturday Night  Woody Guthrie’s song “This Land Is Your Land” inspires
the “These Lands Are Your Lands” festival at the Southbank
Centre. The weekend celebration of British and International
music includes a Saturday evening show by Oysterband, Marc
Almond, Green Gartside, June Tabor and Robyn Hitchock performing
“The Great Folk Jukebox,” songs from the last 60 years. They
are joined by members of the group  Bellowhead , artists in
residence at the Southbank, whose album “Hedonism” proves they
are always ready to whip up a ceilidh storm.  Alternatively, you can hear statuesque  Mariza  -- the young
face of  Portugal ’s ageless fado tradition -- at the Royal
Festival Hall, in the last of three performances (May 5-7).  Southbank Centre, Belvedere Road, SE1 8XX. Information:
+44-20-7960-4200,  http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk/   Sunday  The world’s priciest painting is not necessarily the best.  Tate Modern  has a room dedicated to Picasso’s “Nude,  Green
Leaves  and Bust” (1932), which sold a year ago for $106.5
million at Christie’s International in  New York . It was the
costliest artwork ever bought at auction, and its anonymous
owner has lent it for two years to Tate.  Picasso’s then mistress Marie-Therese Walter is pictured in
a naked swoon, next to a plate of fruit and a bust of herself.
It’s a fine work, though not as potent as “The Three Dancers”
from 1925 (also known as “La Danse”) -- hanging in the same
room, and from Tate’s own collection.  Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk  or +44-20-7887-8888.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 