-- 
Proofpoint, E-Mail Security Software Maker, Is Said to Be Considering IPO

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-05-04T20:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/proofpoint-e-mail-security-software-maker-is-said-to-be-considering-ipo.html
Proofpoint Inc., a provider of
security and compliance software, is in talks with bankers about
selling shares in an initial public offering, according to three
people with knowledge of the company’s plans.  The IPO may take place during the second half of the year,
said two of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the matter is private. The company has revenue of more than $100
million, according to one of the people.  Proofpoint  can use proceeds from an IPO to help it vie with
larger rivals that have entered the market through acquisitions
in recent years. Cisco Systems Inc.,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
and Symantec Corp. are among companies that have bought smaller
firms since 2007 to target corporate customers as concerns mount
about data loss and virus protection in e-mail systems.  Joe Franscella, a spokesman for Sunnyvale, California-based
 Proofpoint , didn’t immediately respond to phone calls seeking
comment.  Customers of Proofpoint, which delivers its software over
the Internet, include pet-products retailer Petco Animal
Supplies Inc. and health-care provider  Kaiser Permanente .  Proofpoint’s possible IPO comes as the market shows signs
of improvement for new offerings. In the U.S., April had the
most new filings for initial offerings since August 2007,
according to  Renaissance Capital LLC , a Greenwich, Connecticut-
based IPO investment firm.  Fusion-io Inc., which aims to replace hard drives with
 flash memory , a more mobile form, announced plans in March to
raise $150 million in an IPO. The five-year old company had
sales of $58.3 million for the second half of 2010, according to
a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Venture Funding  Proofpoint, which in 2008 raised $28 million in venture
funding led by  DAG Ventures , has received a total of at least
$86 million from investors including Benchmark Capital,
Bridgescale Partners, Jafco Ventures, Meritech Capital Partners,
Mohr Davidow Ventures and RRE Ventures LLC.  Eric Hahn, the former chief technology officer of Netscape
Communications Corp., founded Proofpoint in 2002 and remains the
company’s chairman. Chief Executive Officer Gary Steele has
spent his career as a business software executive, and prior to
Proofpoint was CEO of Portera.  Cisco bought Proofpoint competitor IronPort Systems Inc. in
2007 for $830 million. Google purchased Postini Inc. for $625
million the same year, while Symantec acquired MessageLabs Ltd.
for $697 million in 2008. McAfee Inc., which acquired Secure
Computing in 2008, was bought by Intel earlier this year for
$7.7 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  