-- 
Prudential’s Profit Declines 13% as Derivative Loss Widens

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-05-04T21:54:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/prudential-financial-s-profit-declines-13-on-losses-tied-to-derivatives.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the second-
biggest U.S. life insurer, said first-quarter profit slumped 13
percent as losses tied to derivatives widened amid an increase
in  interest rates .  Net income fell to $608 million from $697 million a year
earlier, the  Newark , New Jersey-based company said today in a
statement. Operating profit, which excludes the results of
policies sold before the company went public and some
investments, was $1.69 a share. The average estimate of 19
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $1.47 a share.  Realized investment losses widened to $360 million from $60
million a year earlier. Prudential uses derivatives to guard
against market risks, such as interest-rate declines and
currency fluctuations. When yields rise, as they did on two-year
and 10-year Treasury notes in the first quarter, Prudential
writes down the value of some derivatives.  “Over the course of time, those derivatives should help
them manage the obligations they have to policyholders,” said
 Randy Binner , an analyst with FBR Capital Markets. “They’re not
using them to speculate.” He rates Prudential “outperform.”  The loss was “driven by changes in interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates,” the company said in the
statement. Two-year Treasury yields surged 38 percent in the
three months ended March 31, after rising more than 40 percent
in the fourth quarter.  Prudential Gains  Prudential has gained 6.3 percent this year, more than the
3.9 percent advance of  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the biggest U.S. life
insurer. Prudential declined 23 cents to $62.20 as of 4:11 p.m.
in extended New York trading.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose to
$63.50 a share at the main business, from $63.11 on Dec. 31. Net
unrealized gains on fixed maturity holdings at the main
portfolio slipped to $4.6 billion from $5.7 billion at the end
of last year.  Prudential has phased out securities-related businesses as
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld, 57,
focuses on life insurance and retirement products. The company
has added to operations in  Japan , the world’s second-largest
life insurance market after the U.S., through acquisitions.  “Prudential used to be much more of a broker-dealer; they
had equity research,” said Binner. “The strategic shift has
been to become much more of an insurance company.”  Boosting Sales  Prudential and New York-based MetLife have boosted sales in
the U.S. since 2008, taking market share from smaller rivals
that scaled back after losses during the recession. Prudential,
which declined a bailout in 2009, jumped to No. 1 among sellers
of variable annuities in the U.S. that year.  Net sales of individual annuities rose to $4.82 billion
from $3.18 billion a year earlier, the insurer said. Operating
income from the products advanced to $292 million from $244
million.  Strangfeld agreed last month to sell a commodities business
to investment bank Jefferies Group Inc. for $430 million.
Prudential shut its institutional-brokerage unit in 2007 and
sold a minority stake in a securities-brokerage business to
 Wells Fargo & Co . in 2009.  Prudential expanded in Japan in February by completing the
$4.8 billion acquisition of Star Life Insurance Co. and Edison
Life Insurance Co. from  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
Prudential has generated more than a fifth of its revenue from
the country.  Prudential’s international insurance business posted $672
million in adjusted operating income, up from $491 million in
the first three months of 2010.  MetLife acquired American Life Insurance Co. from AIG in
November for about $16 billion, including a business in Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 