-- 
Qaddafi’s Forces Bombard Rebel Cities as Allies Prepare for Rome Meeting

-- B y   J a m e s   N e u g e r   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-05-04T17:21:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/qaddafi-s-forces-bombard-rebel-cities-as-allies-prepare-for-rome-meeting.html
Libyan forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi 
bombarded rebel-held cities in the west of the country as
ministers from 22 nations prepared to meet in  Rome  to discuss
ways to end the fighting.  The port of Misrata came under heavy fire from Qaddafi’s
forces as an aid ship unloaded food and medicine and took aboard
800 people, including stranded migrants and 50 wounded
civilians, according to the  International Organization  for
Migration.  The IOM team leader on the scene reported that hundreds of
Libyan civilians had sought to board the ship in desperation to
leave the besieged city. “With a limited capacity, the ramp of
the boat had to be pulled up so that the ship could pull away
from the dock in safety,” according to an e-mail from an IOM
official, Jean-Philippe Chauzy.  Foreign ministers from the  Libya  Contact Group, which
represents NATO members and other allies, are set to meet in
 Italy  tomorrow to discuss the country’s political future and a
possible peace plan from  Turkey . In New York, the  International
Criminal Court  prosecutor said he will seek arrest warrants for
three top Qaddafi regime officials for war crimes and crimes
against humanity.  “What needs to happen now is for Qaddafi to immediately
withdraw from power and to bring to pass his historical, human
and moral responsibility,” Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said in a speech in Istanbul yesterday.  Oil Falls  The insurgency since mid-February in Libya, which has
Africa’s biggest proven crude reserves, has helped push  oil
prices  up by nearly a third. Crude oil for June delivery fell
$2.16, or 2 percent, to $108.89 at 12:35 p.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange, after the U.S. Energy Department reported
crude stockpiles at the highest level since October.  One of the aims of the allies is to pressure Qaddafi to
step down and allow a peaceful transition to democracy,
Rasmussen said.  “The nature of the conflict has changed significantly in a
month, but what has not changed and will not change is the
resolve of NATO and our partners,” NATO Secretary-General
Anders Fogh Rasmussen told reporters today in Brussels. “It is
hard to imagine that the attacks against civilians in Libya will
cease as long as Qaddafi remains in power.”  Allies Talk  Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  and Qatari Prime
Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani will co-chair the
talks in Rome tomorrow. Representatives of Libya’s Transitional
National Council, the interim authority set up by the rebels in
the eastern city of Benghazi, also are set to attend.  One of the initiatives to be discussed is a plan to set up
a financial mechanism to support the rebel council,  Bernard Valero , spokesman for the French Foreign Minister, said in e-
mailed comments.  In New York, the prosecutor of the International Criminal
Court said he will seek arrest warrants for three members of
Qaddafi’s regime who “appear to bear the greatest criminal
responsibility” for  war crimes  and crimes against humanity.  Without specifying Qaddafi by name, Argentine lawyer  Luis
Moreno-Ocampo  told the UN Security Council that he wants to hold
accountable “those who ordered, incited, financed or otherwise
planned the commission of the alleged crimes.”  Crimes, Repression  He cited evidence of murder, rape, torture, unlawful
imprisonment and deportation, as well as a government effort to
cover up the alleged crimes. The Qaddafi regime began planning
its repression of anti-government demonstrations before they
started, after observing the unrest in Egypt and  Tunisia , he
said.  Two explosions were heard in Tripoli early today, the
 Associated Press  reported, attributing them to NATO air strikes.
Qaddafi’s son Saif al-Arab, 29, and three of the leader’s
grandchildren died when his Bab al-Aziziya compound in the
capital was hit by missiles on April 30, according to the Libyan
government.  Loyalist forces yesterday shelled the rebel-held town of
Zintan, in the western mountains of the country, and fired
rockets at a road to disrupt supplies being brought to nearby
towns from the Tunisian border, the AP said.  Changing Tactics  Fighting also continued on the edges of the port city of
Misrata, the main rebel stronghold in western Libya, which has
been besieged by government troops for two months. NATO reported
hitting three tanks and three ammunition depots near Misrata
yesterday.  “The Qaddafi regime has changed its tactics, by hiding its
military units in populated areas, by using human shields and in
other ways,” Rasmussem said. “And of course we have had to
adapt our tactics as well. It’s a more challenging task now than
right at the beginning, but we are making steady progress.”  Misrata’s port area was shelled by Qaddafi’s forces today,
killing four, after the British-funded aid ship, Red Star One,
docked there, the AP reported. The IOM said safety concerns
after NATO intercepted an effort to mine the harbor delayed the
ship’s arrival for five days.  People weren’t able to reach the docked ship for three
hours because of the shelling, leaving less than an hour to
board as many people as could be processed before departing for
the rebel-controlled city of Benghazi, the IOM said in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Neuger at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 