-- 
Rajaratnam Jury Deliberations Restart With Alternate

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-05-04T15:20:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/rajaratnam-deliberations-to-begin-anew-as-juror-leaves-for-medical-reasons.html
Deliberations in the  insider-trading 
trial of Raj Rajaratnam started over after a juror was dismissed
for medical reasons following six days of weighing charges
against the Galleon Group LLC co-founder.  Both sides agreed to replace the juror with an alternate, a
39-year-old employee of the Westchester,  New York , parks
department, bringing the panel to eight women and four men. The
original jury began considering securities fraud and conspiracy
counts against Rajaratnam in Manhattan federal court April 25.  “The law requires you to base your verdict solely upon the
evidence,” U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell told the jury in
the courtroom today. “The verdict must represent the verdict of
each juror, including the new juror that’s been seated.”  Rajaratnam, 53, was arrested in October 2009 in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors, relying in part on wiretaps of the defendant’s
phone calls, said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about 15 stocks.  Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on research, was
tried on five counts of conspiracy and nine counts of  securities
fraud . He faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of
the most serious charges. The trial began March 8.  The defendant, who was not in court on May 3 because of
emergency foot surgery, was also absent today. There were no
deliberations yesterday. The departing juror is a 70-year-old
retired bookkeeper living in Manhattan.  Six Weeks  The deliberations follow six weeks of trial testimony in
the largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S.
history. The Galleon case was the first one focused exclusively
on insider trading in which prosecutors wiretapped their
targets’ telephone conversations.  During the trial, jurors listened to more than 40
recordings of Rajaratnam, in some of which he can be heard
gathering information from his sources. Last week, the jury
asked to re-hear about 15 of the wiretaps.  The jurors hail from Westchester, the Bronx and  Manhattan .
The panel includes a teacher, an activities therapist for a
private nursing home, a nurse, a customer-service representative
for the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority  and a three-decade
veteran food-service worker for New York’s Education Department.  The judge told the panel they would have to choose a new
foreman. The original foreman is a 56-year-old resident of the
Bronx who is a graphic artist and works for Apple Inc.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  