-- 
Rajaratnam Jury Starts Over With New Juror, Replays Wiretaps

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-05-04T18:37:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/rajaratnam-jury-starts-over-with-a-new-juror-replays-wiretaps-of-calls.html
Jurors in the  insider-trading  trial of
Raj Rajaratnam restarted deliberations after one juror was
replaced for medical reasons, and the panel reheard recordings
of wiretapped conversations that were played for them last week.  With an alternate seated as the new Juror 2, U.S. District
Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan today told the eight women
and four men to begin weighing the charges anew. The panel later
asked to hear 12 wiretaps of Rajaratnam’s phone conversations,
nine of which had been played before for the jurors, who began
the first round of deliberations April 25.  One of the three new recordings captured a conversation in
which former McKinsey & Co. partner Anil Kumar told Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Rajaratnam, 53, about “massive layoffs on
Monday,” which prosecutors said was a tip about job cuts at
 EBay Inc. (EBAY)   “I love that they’re listening to these calls,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told the judge after the jurors left
the courtroom. “Some of these calls are fantastic for the
government.”  Holwell again refused a U.S. request to give transcripts of
the recordings to the jury. The prosecution said jurors may not
know precisely which recordings to ask for because they lack a
master list and transcripts.  Rajaratnam was arrested in October 2009 in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors, relying in part on wiretaps of the defendant’s
phone calls, said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about 15 stocks.  Twenty Years  Rajaratnam, who said he based the trades on research, was
tried on five counts of conspiracy and nine counts of  securities
fraud . He faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of
the most serious charges. The trial began March 8.  The defendant, who was not in court earlier this week
because of emergency foot surgery, was also absent today. There
were no deliberations yesterday as unspecified medical
considerations prevented the former Juror 2 from coming to
court.  The woman, a 70-year-old retired bookkeeper, lives on
Manhattan’s Upper West Side. The alternate named to replace her
is a 39-year-old employee of the Westchester,  New York , parks
department. Three of the jurors now on the panel were originally
chosen as alternates. Three alternates remain.  “Beginning anew is the same duty it always was. The law
requires you to base your verdict solely upon the evidence,”
Holwell told the jury. “The verdict must represent the verdict
of each juror, including the new juror that’s been seated.”  Jurors will have to decide for themselves how to start
over, said  Stephen Miller , a former federal prosecutor in New
York and Philadelphia now in private practice at Cozen O’Connor.  ‘Self-Governed’  “There’s no one standing over them giving them an A-plus
or a C-plus on their deliberations,” said Miller. “It’s
totally self-governed.”  The change, which will probably delay a verdict, doesn’t
necessarily favor one side or the other, Miller said.  Holwell today also said he sealed “several transcripts of
proceedings,” without providing details of their subject. In a
one-page order, Holwell cited “the secrecy and integrity of
jury deliberations and privacy of deliberating jurors.”  Holwell has held a number of nonpublic hearings, during the
trial and deliberations, and ordered the transcripts sealed.  Six Weeks  The deliberations follow six weeks of trial testimony. The
Galleon case was the first one focused exclusively on insider
trading in which prosecutors wiretapped their targets’ telephone
conversations.  During the trial, jurors listened to more than 40
recordings of Rajaratnam, in some of which he can be heard
gathering information from his sources. Last week, the jury
asked to re-hear about 15.  The jurors hail from Westchester, the Bronx and  Manhattan .
The panel includes a teacher, an activities therapist for a
private nursing home, a nurse, a customer-service representative
for the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority  and a three-decade
veteran food-service worker for New York’s Education Department.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  