-- 
Transocean Profit Drops on Higher Costs and Rig-Demand Slump

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-05-04T21:41:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/transocean-profit-declines-as-gas-glut-cuts-shallow-rig-demand.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest
offshore driller, reported its biggest first-quarter profit
decline in nine years amid a wordwide surfeit of rigs used to
find oil and natural gas.  Net income declined 54 percent to $310 million, or 96 cents
a share, from $677 million, or $2.09, a year earlier, the
Vernier, Switzerland-based company said today in a statement.
The last time Transocean reported a larger first-quarter profit
decrease was 2002.  Excluding one-time gains and expenses stemming from rig
sales, legal bills and tax items, the per-share result was 24
cents below the average estimate of 35 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. New U.S. drilling rules enacted after last year’s
Deepwater Horizon disaster in the Gulf of Mexico boosted costs
and forced the company to spend more time carrying out shipyard
work during the quarter, according to Transocean’s statement.  The results were “substantially below expectations,” said
 Kurt Hallead , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets Corp. in Austin,
 Texas , who has an “outperform” rating on Transocean. “It
doesn’t look all too pretty.”  Transocean and other drillers have been idling rigs after a
building boom expanded global inventories at a faster rate than
demand grew. Less-sophisticated rigs unequipped to operate in
harsh seas or extreme cold have been hardest hit as energy
explorers extend their search to more remote regions of the
world.  Jack-Up Surplus  Falling rig demand left 45 percent of Transocean’s entire
fleet idle during the first three months of this year, down from
34 percent a year earlier, according to the statement. Sales
fell 17 percent to $2.14 billion.  Daily rates for the company’s vessels fell in four of seven
asset classes, led by a 35 percent decline for so-called jack-up
rigs to $106,200. Jack-ups have retractable legs that extend a
few hundred feet to the seafloor to support the rig.  The statement was released after the close of regular
trading on U.S. exchanges. Transocean fell $1.31, or 1.9
percent, to $67.15 at 4:48 p.m. Transocean has missed analysts’
estimates in three of the past four quarters.  Before today’s announcement, Transocean had fallen 9.5
percent since BP Plc filed a lawsuit on April 20 seeking
billions of dollars in damages for the driller’s role in last
year’s fatal Deepwater Horizon disaster in the  Gulf of Mexico .
Transocean owned the rig and employed nine of the 11 workers
killed when BP’s Macondo well erupted into the worst U.S.
offshore oil spill.  The stock has 22 buy ratings, 22 sells and four holds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  