-- 
Treasury Yield Reaches Six-Week Low; Budget Cuts Threaten Economic Growth

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-04T10:25:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/treasury-futures-rise-a-fifth-day-as-budget-cuts-threaten-economic-growth.html
Treasury yields were close to the
lowest level in six weeks on speculation government efforts to
curtail spending will hurt the economy, boosting demand for the
perceived safety of fixed-income assets.  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are dropping
bets against U.S. government securities after gross-domestic-
product growth unexpectedly slowed last quarter. The U.S. is
scheduled to announce today the amount of three-, 10- and 30-
year debt it will auction next week.  “Treasuries are supported as the economic recovery is
still in the balance,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
London. “There has to be some reduction in  government spending ,
or fiscal tightening. The  Federal Reserve  has said it’s still
keeping rates on hold for an extended period.”  The yield on 10-year notes was little changed at 3.25
percent as of 10:43 a.m. in London, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. It reached 3.234 percent earlier, the lowest
since March 18. The 3.625 percent note due in February 2021
traded at 103 3/32. The two-year note yield gained one basis
point to 0.62 percent.  U.S. 10-year rates fell below those on similar-maturity
German bunds yesterday for the first time since June 2009.  Economic growth is falling short of forecasts and market
participants may need to reduce their yield predictions,  Jim Caron , the New York-based global head of interest-rate strategy
at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report yesterday. Goldman Sachs
cited Federal Reserve comments and the pace of inflation in a
separate report the same day.  ‘Turned Neutral’  “We have recently turned neutral from bearish on bonds,”
Caron wrote. “We are also tactically looking to buy bonds if
yields rise.” Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs are both among
the 20 primary dealers authorized to trade with the Fed.  The central bank is scheduled to purchase $1 billion to $2
billion of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities due from
April 2013 to February 2041 today under its plan to support the
expansion by pumping $600 billion into the economy, according to
its  website .  GDP grew at a 1.8 percent annual rate from January through
March, slowing from 3.1 percent in the final three months of
2010, the Commerce Department said on April 28.  Bernanke Signal  “I’m bullish” on Treasuries, said Zeal Yin, who invests
in  U.S. debt  in Taipei at Shin Kong Life Insurance Co.,  Taiwan ’s
second-largest life insurer, with the equivalent of $52.5
billion in assets. “They eventually will cut the deficit. GDP
growth will not be as good as many people expect.” Shin Kong
Life bought Treasuries two weeks ago, he said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled April 27 that the
central bank will maintain its record stimulus after it ends
large-scale bond purchases. The Fed has held its key rate at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and is aiming to
increase growth by completing $600 billion of Treasury purchases
through June.  Treasury bulls are in the minority. The 10-year yield will
advance to 3.59 percent by June 30 and to 3.91 percent by year-
end, according to Bloomberg surveys of banks and securities
companies with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  ‘Sustainable Recovery’  “Ultimately, the economic fundamentals should see Treasury
yields move up,” said Rob da Silva, who helps oversee $235.3
billion as a  fund manager  in Sydney at Principal Global
Investors. “The economy is on a sustainable recovery.” The
company is part of Principal Financial Group Inc., based in  Des
Moines ,  Iowa .  Ten-year rates will climb to 3.75 percent by year-end, da
Silva said.  Service industries  in the U.S. accelerated in April, a sign
that the biggest part of the economy is weathering increases in
fuel prices, economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing companies rose to 57.5 from 57.3 in March,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Another report will show companies hired 198,000
workers last month, the surveys show.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, has widened to 2.55
percentage points from 2.16 percentage points six months ago.  Spending Cuts  The Obama administration and congressional Republicans are
debating how and whether to raise the debt limit. Republicans
say they won’t act unless President  Barack Obama  offers more
spending cuts.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. will
have three weeks more than previously seen before hitting its
borrowing limit, giving the White House and Congress more time
for a compromise to raise the ceiling.  The government can borrow until Aug. 2, Geithner wrote in a
letter to congressional leaders this week.  The U.S. will stop issuing State and Local Government
Series securities on May 6,Geithner wrote in the letter. The
bonds “fund a variety of expenditures, including infrastructure
improvements across the country,” he said.  The U.S. will probably sell $32 billion of three-year
notes, $24 billion of 10-year debt and $16 billion of 30-year
bonds next week, according to a Bloomberg survey of 14 primary
dealers, companies required to bid in Treasury auctions.  The amounts would be the same as the previous auctions of
these maturities in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  