-- 
Renren Surges on First Day of Trading With Price-to-Sales Beating Facebook

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-05-05T04:35:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/renren-raises-743-million-in-china-social-networking-site-ipo.html
Renren Inc.,  China ’s biggest social-
networking website by page views, surged 29 percent in  New York 
Stock Exchange trading after raising $743.4 million in its
initial public offering.  The Beijing-based company sold 53.1 million American
depositary receipts at $14 each, the high end of the proposed
range, according to a company statement yesterday. The stock
rose $4.01 to $18.01 as of 4 p.m. yesterday. Including the sale
of 7.97 million ADRs sold through an overallotment option with
underwriters, Renren’s IPO raised $855 million.  At its $14 initial price, Renren would be valued at 72
times last year’s sales, compared with 25 times for social-
networking site Facebook Inc. as valued by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s investment in the U.S. company. Renren commands a premium
because  China’s economy  may grow three times faster than the U.S.
and about two-thirds of the population isn’t online.  “Worldwide internet players that leverage social networks
and monetize them well will have a very good chance at high
growth and a chance to go public,” said David Chao, co-founder
of the  Menlo Park , California-based venture capital firm DCM,
who says his fund has given Renren about $20 million. “This is
a really good time for a lot of companies in China that have
been growing very well because the overall market in China is
growing very rapidly.”  Sina, Tencent  Renren, which also offers games and daily deals for
consumers, is the first social-networking site to go public in
the U.S. and will use proceeds to expand in the world’s biggest
Internet market by users. Renren faces competition for
advertisers and users from local Internet companies Sina Corp.
and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (TCEHY)   Sina, owner of China’s most-popular microblogging site,
fell 2.8 percent in U.S. trading yesterday. Other U.S.-traded
Chinese Internet stocks including Baidu Inc. and Sohu.com Inc.
also declined.  The website operator is one of 34 companies that announced
plans for U.S. IPOs in April, the busiest month for new filings
since August 2007, according to Renaissance Capital LLC, the
Greenwich, Connecticut-based IPO investment firm.  China had 457 million  Internet users  at the end of 2010 and
about half of them used social-networking websites, according to
data from the government-sponsored China Internet Network
Information Center. Renren had 117 million users as of March 31,
according to its prospectus.  ‘Exuberant Territory’  At least three Chinese Internet companies announced IPO
plans last month as  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU) , the Beijing-based online-
video site, trades at more than 100 times 2010 sales following
its December IPO.  “We’re at least in exuberant territory, if not a bubble,
with Chinese Internet stocks,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who
oversees $1.1 billion as chief investment strategist at YCMNet
Advisors in Walnut Creek,  California . “Investors need to be
very aware that if the company doesn’t execute on these lofty
expectations, they are in for a rude awakening.”  Renren, whose name means “everyone” in Chinese, had 117
million users as of March 31, less than a quarter of the more
than 500 million users Facebook has globally. The company
boosted the maximum sought in its IPO by 27 percent on April 29.  ‘Valuation Risks’  Facebook, which is banned in China, said in January it had
a market valuation of $50 billion after raising $1.5 billion
from investors including Goldman Sachs and  Russia ’s Digital Sky
Technologies. The  Palo Alto , California-based company may have
reached about $2 billion in revenue last year, three people with
knowledge of the matter said in December.  Some Chinese Internet stocks may have “high valuation
risks,” said Kai-Fu Lee, a former Google Inc. executive whose
Beijing-based venture fund invests in startups, in an April 15
interview on Bloomberg Television.  China, which requires domestic websites to self-censor
content deemed unacceptable to the ruling Communist Party, and
blocks overseas services such as Facebook and Google Inc.’s
Youtube, has set up a new department under the cabinet to
supervise the Internet, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday.  Group-Buying Site  Besides its social network, Renren operates a group-buying
site that offers daily deals on local services and cultural
events, Nuomi.com, and an online games site. In 2006, Renren
acquired Xiaonei.com, a social networking site founded by
graduates of Beijing’s Tsinghua University in 2005. Renren,
formerly known as Oak Pacific Interactive, began operations in
2002, according to the IPO prospectus.  “The world has never seen the kind of growth we’re seeing
out of Internet companies in China,” said Lou Kerner, a social
media analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in New York.  Softbank Corp. (9984) ,  Japan ’s fastest-growing mobile-phone
carrier, is the biggest shareholder in Renren.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
led Renren’s offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  