-- 
Trichet May Signal Rate Cycle Pace as ECB Fights Inflation

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-05-05T10:17:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/trichet-s-close-call-decision-may-signal-how-fast-ecb-will-raise-rates.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet today may indicate just how fast he’s prepared to
raise  interest rates  over the coming months.  While policy makers meeting in Helsinki will keep the
benchmark rate at 1.25 percent, according to all 48 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey, any pledge by Trichet for “strong
vigilance” would signal an increase as soon as June. The
Frankfurt-based central bank in April raised borrowing costs
from a record low for the first time in almost three years.  ECB officials including  Italy ’s  Mario Draghi , seen as the
frontrunner to replace Trichet from November, have signaled
they’re in favor of further monetary tightening to fight
inflation that quickened to 2.8 percent last month, the fastest
in 2 1/2 years. Their task of normalizing policy is being
complicated by governments struggling to contain the debt crisis
that forced Portugal to ask for external help last month.  “If the ECB decides to surprise in a hawkish way, it’s
clear they want to go to 2 percent by year end,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-region economist at UniCredit Global Research
in Milan, who expects policy makers to keep the benchmark on
hold in June. “It’s a very close call. If it wasn’t for the
uncertainty in the periphery, it would be much clearer.”  The euro erased gains today as German factory data showed
an unexpected drop in manufacturing orders. The currency traded
at $1.4836 as of 12:14 p.m. in Frankfurt.  BOE, Fed  The  Bank of England  will keep its benchmark interest rate
at 0.5 percent when policy makers meet today, according to a
Bloomberg survey. In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  last week
retained its pledge to keep rates “exceptionally low” for an
“extended period” to bolster the world’s largest economy.  Monetary policy elsewhere is becoming tighter. The
Philippine and Malaysian central banks today increased interest
rates, and  India  raised rates this week for the ninth time since
March 2010. The cost of borrowing in  China ,  Asia ’s biggest
economy, may rise further after its central bank said yesterday
that taming inflation is its top priority. The Czech central
bank could also today move forward its forecast for benchmark
rate increases when it meets at 1 p.m. in Prague.  The ECB will announce its decision at 1:45 p.m. in
Frankfurt and Trichet holds a press conference 45 minutes later.
ECB officials gather twice every year away from their
headquarters, with Trichet holding his last briefing in Berlin
in October before his term ends.  Economic Growth  Euro-area growth may average 1.7 percent this year and 1.8
percent in 2012, with inflation at 2.3 percent and 1.7 percent
this year and next respectively, the ECB forecasts. With surging
oil costs fueling price pressures, ECB Executive Board member
Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said on April 26 the period of
“abnormally low” interest rates “may be ending.”  Draghi has also sharpened his language. While Trichet said
last month’s rate step wasn’t necessarily the start of a series
Draghi signaled more to come. “ Monetary policy  must take into
account the emergence of inflationary tensions, pushed by rising
food and energy prices,” he said on April 13.  ECB policy makers are concerned that rising costs ranging
from food to metals and fuel will feed into wage demands and
spark more persistent inflation. Euro-region core inflation,
which excludes volatile costs, accelerated to 1.3 percent in
March, the fastest since August 2009.  ‘Window of Opportunity’  “If there is the risk that inflation feeds through into
second-round effects, the ECB won’t even think about it,” said
 James Nixon , chief European economist at Societe Generale SA in
 London , who forecasts the central bank to raise borrowing costs
next month. “They’ll raise rates.”  In 2005, when the ECB last stepped up efforts to counter
inflation threats, policy makers raised the benchmark rate at
least once every quarter. A similar approach would point to the
central bank raising borrowing costs in July.  Adding to signs of cost pressures, euro-region producer-
price inflation unexpectedly accelerated to 6.7 percent in
March. That’s the fastest since September 2008.  “It is crystal clear that the window of opportunity for
rate hikes is wide open this year,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an
economist at ING Group NV in Brussels. “It won’t be as open in
the years to come. This could be the main motivation for the ECB
to hike rates more often this year.”  Investor Concerns  Government efforts to lower budget deficits are clouding
the region’s growth outlook and making it harder for officials
to raise borrowing costs. While  Portugal  on May 3 reached an
agreement with officials preparing its European Union-led
bailout that will provide as much as 78 billion euros ($116
billion) in aid, investors remain concerned about  Greece ’s
ability to pay back its own bailout loans.  Greek bond yields and the cost of insuring the debt against
default rose to new records last week. The extra yield, or
spread, investors demand to hold Greek 10-year bonds instead of
similar-maturity German bunds widened to 1,209 basis points
yesterday. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Jens Sondergaard, an economist at Nomura International Plc
in London, said it would be a “mistake” for policy makers to
raise borrowing costs too quickly.  “There’s really no reason for a more aggressive
tightening,” he said. “Will they go down the more hawkish
route and realize it’s a policy mistake six months later?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  