-- 
Rising Corn Prices Threaten Meat Profits, Seaboard Says

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-05-04T20:15:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/rising-corn-prices-threaten-meat-profits-seaboard-says-1-.html
Meat-industry profits are threatened
by rising feed expenses, according to  Seaboard Foods LLC , the
third-biggest U.S. hog producer, which said higher corn prices
will cost the company an additional $85 million this year.  Government policies that promote corn use for ethanol are
the “paramount” reason for the increased expense, Rod Brenneman, the chief executive officer of Merriam, Kansas-based
Seaboard, said today at a hearing of the House Agriculture
Committee panel that oversees livestock.  “These policies need to be reevaluated and, in my opinion,
completely changed,” Brenneman said. “When roughly 40 percent
of the corn crop is used to produce fuel instead of  animal feed 
or  food production , it is difficult for anyone to argue that the
policies have had no impact on food prices.”  Biofuel opponents in Congress are trying to end early a 45-
cent-a-gallon tax credit offered to blenders of ethanol, a move
supported by the meat industry. Senators  Dianne Feinstein , a
California Democrat, and  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican,
yesterday introduced a bill to repeal the subsidy, which costs
taxpayers $6 billion a year. The measure is set to expire at the
end of the year. The legislation would also end a 54-cent-a-
gallon tariff on ethanol imports.  Ethanol Supporters  Ethanol supporters including Senators  Kent Conrad , Democrat
of North Dakota, and  Charles Grassley , Republican of Iowa, today
introduced a bill that would cut the credit to 20 cents a gallon
in 2012 and 15 cents in 2013, before pegging it to the price of
oil. The legislation would continue the tariff, at a lower
level, and extend incentives to install gasoline pumps that can
handle higher biofuel content.  Brenneman said high corn prices will discourage livestock
producers from expanding herds over the next several months,
while meat demand will keep them from contracting.  The price of pork may rise faster this year than the 6.5
percent to 7.5 percent forecast by the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  last month, he said in an interview after the
hearing, which was called to review the state of the U.S. pork
industry.  Higher Corn Prices  Prices for corn, the main ingredient in livestock feed,
have almost doubled in the past year, and on April 11 touched
$7.8875 a bushel, the highest since June 2008, as demand for
ethanol surged. Hog futures traded in  Chicago  are up 6.2 percent
in the past year, even after tumbling 3.1 percent yesterday, the
most since October, on signs the higher prices are cutting into
demand for U.S. pork.  The  National Cattlemen’s Beef Association  yesterday said it
supported the legislation proposed by Feinstein and Coburn.  “All we are asking is to compete head to head for a bushel
of corn,” said Bill Donald, the group’s president, said in a
statement. “The federal government shouldn’t be in the business
of picking winners and losers.”  Chris Thorne, a spokesman for the biofuels lobbying group
 Growth Energy , said in an e-mail that eliminating ethanol
supports would raise gasoline prices and “effectively pull the
rug out from under the ethanol industry -- at the cost of jobs,
economic development and our  energy security .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 