-- 
Roche’s Avastin Boosts Risks For Eye Patients, Analysis Finds

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-05-04T17:01:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/roche-s-avastin-boosts-risks-for-eye-patients-analysis-finds.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin cancer
medicine increases the risk of death and stroke compared with
the Lucentis drug when injected into the eye.  Avastin raised the risk of early death by 11 percent and
the risk of hemorrhagic stroke by 57 percent compared with
Lucentis, Basel, Switzerland-based  Novartis AG (NOVN)  said today in an
e-mailed statement, citing analysis of Medicare data carried out
by  Johns Hopkins University  and presented at a U.S. medical
conference. Lucentis was developed by Novartis and Roche’s
Genentech unit.  Avastin is sometimes prescribed for unapproved, or “off-
label,” use against the most common form of blindness in the
elderly because the drug costs $50 per shot, while Lucentis
costs about $2,000 for each injection. A study published April
28 found that Avastin was as effective as Lucentis for treating
the condition known as wet age-related macular degeneration, or
AMD.  The data “underscore the importance of drug design with
the patient in mind -- aiming for an appropriate balance of
efficacy and safety for a given indication and patient
population,” Trevor Mundel, global head of development at
Novartis, said in the statement.  Lucentis, which works in a similar way to Avastin, won U.S.
approval as an AMD treatment in 2006 based on the drug’s ability
to slow vision loss in patients with an advanced form of the
condition. About one-third of patients involved in clinical
trials had an improvement in vision. In the U.S., Roche sells
both drugs, while in the rest of the world, Roche sells Avastin
and Novartis sells Lucentis.  The latest analysis of Avastin and Lucentis was presented
at the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology
meeting in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  