-- 
Google Rivals for Nortel Assets May Mean Bids Top $1 Billion

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r ,   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-05-05T21:40:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/rpx-considering-bid-for-nortel-s-nuclear-weapon-of-patents.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  is facing possible rival
bids for Nortel Networks Corp.’s portfolio of technology patents
that could push the sale price to more than $1 billion.  RPX Corp., a San Francisco-based patent-buying firm, is
considering a bid for the assets, Andrew Kent, an attorney for
the company, said during a bankruptcy court hearing this week.
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  is also weighing an offer, two people
familiar with the company’s plans said last month.  Nortel, a Canadian phone-equipment maker that filed for
bankruptcy in January 2009, is selling about 6,000 patents and
patent applications. The portfolio will give the winning bidder
rights to control and license wireless-video technologies and
others that may be valuable for future generations of
smartphones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and RIM’s BlackBerrys.  Google, whose Android software runs phones made by Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co., offered $900
million for the patents last month, in what Toronto-based Nortel
said was a starting point for an auction. To top Google’s bid,
companies have to offer at least $929 million under rules
approved by the two courts overseeing Nortel’s bankruptcy.  “I believe RPX can go higher,” Peter Holden, a partner at
Coller Capital, which reviewed the Nortel portfolio, said in an
interview. “The Nortel portfolio is a big threat to everybody.
Whoever buys this has a very big nuclear weapon. Moving forward,
there’s only RPX and a cash-rich corporation that will counter
the Google bid.”  The price for the patents may reach $1 billion or $1.5
billion if there’s a bidding war among multiple groups, he said.  Previous Auctions  Nortel’s previous auctions involved bidders who drove up
prices.  The company’s wireless equipment business was bought by
Ericsson AB in 2009 for $1.13 billion after six rounds of
bidding that included Nokia Siemens Networks and MatlinPatterson
Global Advisers LLC. Last year,  Ciena Corp. (CIEN)  acquired Nortel’s
optical-networking business for $773.8 million in cash.  This time, RPX, which represents companies including Sony
Corp. and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , had questions about the auction
rules governing joint bids by multiple companies, Kent, with the
law firm McMillan LLP in Toronto, said in comments to Ontario
Superior Court Judge Geoffrey Morawetz in Toronto.  Before Nortel won court permission on May 2 to hold the
auction, the company’s agreement with Google prevented Nortel
officials from talking to RPX or any other potential bidders,
according to court records. That ban has now been lifted.  Bidding Deadline  Nortel has set up a database with details about the patents
that potential bidders can access after signing an agreement to
keep the information confidential. Bidders must notify Nortel of
their intention to participate in the June 20 auction by June
13, according to the bidding rules.  Greg Spector, an RPX spokesman, confirmed that Kent
represents the company and declined to comment further.  RPX, which began trading yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, rose 78 cents to $24.66 at 4 p.m. New York time. Google
slid $1.52 to $534.27.  RPX has spent more than $250 million buying patents since
its inception in July 2008 for companies including Cisco, Sony,
Samsung and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , according to an investor prospectus.  Google’s Bid  Google may want the patents to protect handset makers like
Samsung and Motorola that have adapted Google’s Android
operating system for mobile devices, Holden said. Companies such
as Apple have sued several manufacturers of Android devices
alleging patent violations.  “If successful, we hope this portfolio will not only
create a disincentive for others to sue Google, but also help
us, our partners and the open source community--which is
integrally involved in projects like Android and Chrome--
continue to innovate,” Kent Walker, senior vice president and
general counsel for Google, said in an April 4  blog .  A call to Nortel Chief Strategy Officer George Riedel’s
office was referred to Nortel’s press office, which declined to
comment in an e-mail. A message left for Google spokesman Aaron Zamost wasn’t returned.  RIM co-CEO Mike Lazaridis declined to say whether it will
bid on Nortel’s patents when asked by an investor at the
company’s annual analyst day on May 2. Jim Brady, a Cisco
spokesman, and Lisa Gephardt, a Sony spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Bidding Group  RPX’s other clients include SAP AG, Sharp Corp.,  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , Panasonic Corp. and Google, according to
the same prospectus. The bidding group for a particular set of
patents could include some clients and not others, said Holden.  Nortel filed for bankruptcy after a loss of $5.8 billion as
its customers put off spending on new equipment amid the
recession. Since then, Nortel has raised about $3 billion for
its creditors by selling businesses, with the patents portfolio
the last of the major assets to be sold.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at +1-415-617-7223 or  tgiles@bloomberg.net . 