-- 
RTL Doesn’t Fear Cable-Cutting as Consumers Seek Content on the Internet

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-05-04T15:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/rtl-doesn-t-fear-cable-cutting-as-customers-seek-content-online.html
RTL Group SA (RTL) ’s German unit predicts
people will maintain traditional television viewing habits even
as video platforms proliferate online.  “People are watching more TV than ever,”  Marc Schroeder ,
chief executive officer of RTL Interactive GmbH, the digital and
interactive unit of Mediengruppe RTL Deutschland, said in an
interview at the ANGA cable conference in Cologne. RTL doesn’t
expect customers to “cut the cable,” or stop so-called linear
TV viewing, which is determined by broadcasters’ program
schedules.  “The German audience watched 223 minutes of linear TV per
day in 2010, Schroeder said. “That was an all-time high.”  Broadcasters face increasing competition from video-on-
demand and online platforms including Lovefilm, Netflix, Hulu
and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, financed by advertising, pay-per-view
or subscriptions.  Linear TV will remain “at the center,” of television, Guy Bisson, an analyst for IHS Screen Digest in  London , said in a
presentation in Cologne today. “Online TV will be less than 3
percent of TV revenues in every major market by 2014.
Nonetheless, online video is growing and advertising-supported
online TV will double in the next five years.”  Schroeder said that as friends and families share TVs,
people are more likely to use them for linear TV watching.  “It’s very likely that you will be highly interactive with
your mobile phone, you won’t be that interactive with your TV,”
Schroeder said.  Browser Games  Schroeder is responsible for ensuring that people who want
to watch RTL content online can do so on its sites such as
RTLNOW.de. Overall, Mediengruppe RTL  Germany  registered 571
million video views across its Web sites in 2010.  While advertising remains RTL’s main generator of revenue
online, Schroeder said he’s “opportunistic” about other
sources and is taking advantage of the fact that the company’s
target group online is interested in online games. RTL has
started an online games platform allowing players to take
achievements from one game to another, and it includes social
network features.  “In the past we just sold those users to others via
advertising or partnerships,” Schroeder said. “This is just
another way of monetizing that interest.”  German regulators in February objected to plans by RTL and
 ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM) , the other large free-TV broadcaster in
Germany, to create a joint platform for catch-up television in
the country, allowing TV programs to be viewed at times after
they are broadcast. Schroeder said a final decision from
regulators isn’t expected until 2012. If approved, the platform
would be open to other broadcasters as well.  RTL is a unit of Bertelsmann AG,  Europe ’s biggest media
company, which owns 91 percent of the broadcaster. RTL shares
dropped 0.6 percent to 67.07 euros in Brussels trading as of
4:46 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  