-- 
Russia to Resist Rate Rush as Prices Climb, Economists Say

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-05-05T14:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/russia-to-resist-rate-rush-even-as-prices-climb-economists-say.html
Russia won’t speed up interest-rate
increases after inflation accelerated last month as central
bankers seek to avoid choking economic growth, economists said.  The inflation rate climbed to 9.6 percent from 9.5 percent
in March, matching the fastest pace since October 2009, a  report 
showed yesterday. Prices rose 0.2 percent in the seven days
through May 3, the fastest pace since the week ended March 14,
the statistics office said today.  The central bank and the government must strike a balance
between fueling growth, the slowest among the so-called BRIC
economies, and keeping inflation from sapping purchasing power
and consumer confidence less than a year before parliamentary
and presidential elections. The bank unexpectedly raised its
refinancing rate last week for a second time this year. At 8.25
percent, it remains less than the inflation rate.  “They have been more cautious about tightening policy than
other places, given the economic sensitivities,”  Paul Biszko ,
an emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in
Toronto, said by phone. “That’s not going to change any time
soon unless inflation jumps into double digits sustainably.”  The ruble was little changed at 33.2105, near the strongest
since December 2008, against the central bank’s target currency
basket, by the 5 p.m. close in Moscow. The currency gained 0.6
percent to 40.3000 against the euro, the highest since April 5,
and lost 0.9 percent to 27.4100 per dollar.  ‘Needs Low Inflation’  Fighting inflation is a bigger priority than containing
ruble gains, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said April 25. The
world’s biggest energy supplier “needs low inflation” to make
financing cheaper for companies and home buyers, Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said the same day, predicting the rate won’t
exceed 7.5 percent this year, the slowest on record.  Gross domestic product will expand 4.5 percent next year,
compared with 9.1 percent for  China  and 7.8 percent for  India ,
the  International Monetary Fund  forecast in April. President
 Dmitry Medvedev  wants to accelerate growth to as much as 10
percent in five years.  Real wages dropped for the first time in 16 months in March
and disposable income also declined, a report showed on April
19, a sign that the recovery remains uneven.  ‘Won’t Act’  “The central bank won’t act as promptly as necessary,”
said Guillaume Tresca, emerging markets strategist at  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  in Paris, by telephone. “They are behind the curve
because they still want to stimulate domestic demand and the
second issue is the election and it’s a very political, very
sensitive issue.”  Fighting inflation is becoming more of a priority and
 interest rates  may rise more than previously predicted, said
 Michael Ganske , head of emerging-markets research in London at
Commerzbank AG,  Germany ’s second-biggest lender.  “They have been quite reluctant to raise interest rates,
but I think they woke up and they understood that inflation is a
more severe problem than originally assumed,” Ganske said.
“They will do more than originally expected but they won’t be
super aggressive.”  Biggest Challenge  Russians see inflation as the biggest challenge facing the
country, according to a poll by the state-run VTsIOM research
center. April consumer prices rose 0.4 percent from a month
earlier, compared with 0.6 percent in March, according to
yesterday’s report.  Before last week’s interest-rate increase, the central bank
had relied on currency gains and higher  reserve requirements  for
lenders to quell inflation, seeking to avoid choking economic
growth.  Policy makers last month refrained from raising  reserve
ratios  for banks following increases at its first three policy
meetings this year. Bank Rossii boosted the overnight auction-
based deposit rate in December and all of its main policy rates
in February.  Monetary factors may now sustain inflation originally
sparked by shocks like last year’s drought, the central bank
said after raising borrowing costs last week. Retail sales
increased 4.8 percent last month from a year earlier, while real
wages unexpectedly fell for the first time in 16 months and
disposable income dropped 3.4 percent.  Consumer Demand  Companies including  X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE) , Russia’s largest
grocery operator, have benefited from strengthening consumer
demand and a 2.6 percent rise in retail lending in the first
quarter compared with the previous three months. Retail sales
increased 4.8 percent last month from a year earlier.  The government raised export duties on gasoline last week
to hold down prices and fight fuel shortages.  Gasoline prices jumped 0.9 percent in April from a month
earlier, up from a 0.8 percent monthly decline in March. Food
prices grew 0.4 percent in April from the previous month,
compared with a 0.9 percent rise in March. Inflation in the year
to date was 4.3 percent, compared with 3.5 percent in the first
four months of 2010.  Core inflation , which strips out volatile components, rose
0.5 percent from a month earlier, less than the median estimate
of 0.6 percent in a Bloomberg survey. That brought core
inflation to 3 percent for the year, compared with 1.7 percent
for the first four months of 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  