-- 
Russian Inflation Grew for First Time in 3 Months on Fuel

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-05-04T15:13:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/russian-april-inflation-quickens-for-first-time-in-3-months-on-food-fuel.html
Russian inflation accelerated in April
for the first time in three months to match the fastest pace
since October 2009 as fuel prices surged following government
efforts to contain them.  The inflation rate climbed to 9.6 percent from 9.5 percent
in March, the Moscow-based Federal Statistics Service said today
in an e-mailed statement. Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent from
a month earlier, compared with 0.6 percent in March. The median
estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for an
annual rate of 9.7 and 0.5 percent on the month.  The central bank unexpectedly raised its main  interest
rates  last week for a second time this year to rein in price
growth, saying monetary factors may now sustain inflation
originally sparked by shocks like last year’s drought. Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government raised export duties on
gasoline last week to hold down prices and fight fuel shortages.  “If you look at non-food prices, particularly for gasoline
and other fuel, there was a strong increase,”  Julia Tsepliaeva ,
head of research at BNP Paribas in Moscow, said by phone. “I’m
afraid the attempts to prevent price growth that were made in
the first quarter may lead to faster increases in the second
quarter.”  Gasoline Prices  Gasoline prices jumped 0.9 percent in April from a month
earlier, up from a 0.8 percent monthly decline in March. Food
prices grew 0.4 percent in April from the previous month,
compared with a 0.9 percent rise in March. Inflation in the year
to date was 4.3 percent, compared with 3.5 percent in the first
four months of 2010.  “The first wave of external shocks may have passed, but I
don’t think the process of rising world food prices has ended,”
Tsepliaeva said. “A second wave is gathering. Russian monetary
authorities are hoping to survive the second wave through a good
harvest this year.”  Core inflation , which strips out volatile components, rose
0.5 percent from a month earlier, less than the median estimate
of 0.6 percent in a Bloomberg survey. That brought core
inflation to 3 percent for the year, compared with 1.7 percent
for the first four months of 2010.  ‘Monetary Factors’  Bank Rossii cited the growing “role of monetary factors”
in sustaining inflation pressures when it raised the benchmark
refinancing rate to 8.25 percent from 8 percent on April 29.  Companies including  X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE) , Russia’s largest
grocery operator, have benefited from strengthening consumer
demand and a 2.6 percent rise in retail lending in the first
quarter compared with the previous three months. Retail sales
increased 4.8 percent last month from a year earlier.  The ruble reached its strongest level since December 2008
against the central bank’s target basket and closed at a 29-
month high versus the dollar. It gained 0.3 percent to 33.1932
against the dollar-euro basket by the 5 p.m. close of trading in
Moscow, the strongest since Dec. 21, 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency advanced 0.7 percent to
27.1699 per dollar, the most since Nov. 10, 2008, based on
closing prices.  Fighting inflation is a bigger priority than containing
ruble gains, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said April 25. The
world’s biggest energy supplier “needs low inflation” to make
financing cheaper for companies and home buyers, Putin said the
same day, predicting the rate won’t exceed 7.5 percent this
year, the slowest on record.  The government is seeking to prevent inflation from sapping
purchasing power and consumer confidence less than a year before
parliamentary and presidential elections. Russians see
inflation, the fastest among the so-called BRIC countries, as
the country’s biggest challenge facing the country, according to
a poll by the state-run VTsIOM research center.  “The authorities declared that inflation would be low, and
in a pre-election year they need to keep their promise,”
Tsepliaeva said. “It can be slowed substantially if the ruble
continues to strengthen as quickly as it is now or if monetary
measures are used.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 