-- 
Rwandatel to Offer Fixed-Line and Internet After Losing Its Mobile License

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 
2011-05-04T09:14:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/rwandatel-to-offer-fixed-line-and-internet-after-losing-its-mobile-license.html
Rwandatel SA , a Rwandan mobile-phone
operator that had its mobile-phone license revoked last month,
said it will continue to operate fixed-line and Internet
services in the East African country.  Fixed-line phone services account for about 65 percent of
the company’s revenue, Richard Mugisha, a temporary
administrator appointed by the country’s Commercial Court amid
insolvency proceedings, told reporters today in Kigali, the
capital. Wireless-phone and Internet services generate about 35
percent of its sales, he said.  As of December 2010, Rwandatel had 54.3 billion  Rwanda 
francs ($90.4 million) of debt, according to the company. On May
31, Mugisha will present the court with recommendations on
whether or not the company should be liquidated.  Either way, the company needs a “substantial injection of
money,” Mugisha said in a separate interview.  Libyan African Investment Portfolio, a state-owned company,
holds 80 percent of Rwandatel, while the rest is held by the
Social Security Fund of Rwanda. In March, Rwandan President  Paul Kagame  said he would comply with United Nations resolutions
requiring Libyan assets in the country to be frozen. The UN
Security Council imposed the sanctions in an effort to halt
attacks by Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s regime on protesters.  The telecommunications regulator said the decision to
revoke Rwandatel’s license wasn’t related to the UN resolution.  Rwandatel competes with MTN Rwanda, a unit of  MTN Group
Ltd. (MTN)  of South Africa, and  Millicom International Cellular SA (MICC) ’s
Rwandan unit, Tigo Rwanda. The company had 443,534 subscribers
as of August 2010, compared with 2.2 million for MTN and 529,114
for Tigo, according to the industry regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Murdock in Kigali via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 