-- 
Rwandan Rebel Leaders Start Trial in Germany for Alleged Congo War Crimes

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-05-04T09:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/rwandan-rebel-leaders-start-trial-in-germany-for-alleged-congo-war-crimes.html
Two alleged leaders of a Rwandan Hutu
rebel group operating in eastern  Democratic Republic of Congo  go
on trial in  Germany  today for  war crimes  and crimes against
humanity.  The case against Ignace Murwanashyaka, president of the
Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda, or FDLR, and his
deputy, Straton Musoni, is the first test of a 2002 law that
gives German courts jurisdiction over violations of
international law recognized by the  International Criminal
Court . The two men have lived in Germany for several years and
were arrested in November 2009.  “It’s a very important case for victims of FDLR crimes,”
Geraldine Mattioli-Zeltner, international justice advocacy
director for  Human Rights Watch , said by phone yesterday from
Brussels. “We’re hoping the state sends a strong signal to other
FDLR diaspora in other places in the world and to the commanders
in Congo.”  Hutu rebels first fled to eastern Congo in 1994 after the
 Rwandan genocide , in which 800,000 ethnic-Tutsis and moderate
Hutus were killed in a 100-day massacre. They formed a
succession of rebels groups, including the FDLR that preyed on
the Congolese population.  Murwanashyaka and Musoni are accused of commanding rebels
in Congo who killed hundreds of civilians, committed rape and
enlisted child soldiers in 2008 and 2009, according to a
statement released by the Federal Prosecutor’s Office at the
time of their arrest. A spokesman for the prosecutor’s office
declined to comment when reached by e-mail yesterday.  ICC Indictment  The FDLR’s executive secretary, Callixte Mbarushimana, was
arrested in Paris in October and is under indictment by the ICC
for FDLR crimes committed in Congo in 2009.  Congo’s army is currently conducting United Nations-
supported military operations against the FDLR in eastern Congo
that have helped diminish their numbers by at least 60 percent
since 2009, according to the UN. Last year, a UN-run program
demobilized 1,881 FDLR rebels, lowering the number of combatants
to about 2,500 from more than 6,000 two years prior, the UN
says. A further 444 rebels surrendered to the UN between January
and March of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa on 
 Mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 