-- 
Republicans Brace for Political ‘Abuse’ Over Budget Cuts Beyond Medicare

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-05-04T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/ryan-budget-cuts-may-mean-abuse-for-republicans-beyond-medicare-backlash.html
Republican U.S. Representative Mike Simpson often begins speeches on the federal budget in his home
state of  Idaho  with two questions.  First, he asks constituents whether they think budget
deficits are a threat to the nation’s security. Every hand goes
up. The same happens when he asks if the government needs to
spend less.  He then tells them the cheering is likely to stop: “By the
time we’re done, if we do what’s right, every one of you is
going to be mad at us.”  While most attention has focused on cuts to Medicare in the
2012 budget that  House Republicans  passed on April 15, party
lawmakers will also face a backlash against plans to slash $62
billion, or about 15 percent, from non-security discretionary
programs, or those for which spending isn’t mandated. The
targets range from education and disease research to
transportation and public safety.  The plan , written by Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin , would cap non-security discretionary spending at $360
billion for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 and freeze it for
five years. That’s equal to 2006 spending levels.  Democrats say 
that over a decade that means cuts to education, job training
and social services of 25 percent below levels needed to
maintain current services.  The reductions, which come on top of the $38.5 billion
taken out of this year’s budget, would need to be so deep
because non-security spending makes up only about 12 percent of
the budget and the plan calls for taxes to be cut. Appropriators
this week returned from a two-week congressional recess to begin
the process of targeting specific programs to meet Ryan’s goal.  ‘Axe Will Fall’  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the top Democrat on the
 Budget Committee , said the Republican plan means “significant
cuts” to research budgets at the National Institutes of Health,
the  National Science Foundation  and the  Department of Energy .  While it’s unclear “exactly where the axe will fall,” the
Maryland lawmaker said his calculations show the Republican
budget also would mean a 27 percent reduction from current
levels in the budget category that funds local firefighters, and
an 18 percent cut in the funding area that includes a program
that puts more police officers on the street.  Representative  George Miller , the top Democrat on the
Education and Workforce Committee, said the Republican budget
would mean the  maximum Pell Grant award  to help low-income
students afford college would be cut by more than $2,500,
bringing the top award to $3,040, the lowest since 1998.  “For those core investments in our kids’ education and in
science and research, it is simply shortsighted to take a
hatchet to those programs,”  Van Hollen  said.  Public Opposed  Polls show the public agrees. A Bloomberg National Poll in
March showed 77 percent of Americans oppose cuts to education,
72 percent don’t want medical-research funding reduced, and 66
percent are against scaling back community-renewal programs.  Simpson and other Republicans say this year’s $1.6 trillion
projected deficit and $14 trillion in government debt leave
lawmakers little choice than to target a wide scope of programs.  “I don’t think there’s any program that is going to escape
budget cuts,” said Simpson, 60, a member of both the budget and
appropriations committees. “I suspect we are going to get a
great deal of abuse, not just from Democrats, but from our
constituents.”  Simpson, who heads the appropriations panel on the interior
and the environment, said programs he likes, such as a land and
water conservation fund, aren’t likely to escape cuts either.  S&P Warning  Republican Representative Jeff Flake of  Arizona  said
lawmakers risk even more by not doing enough to tackle the
nation’s fiscal problems. On April 18,  Standard & Poor’s  put the
U.S. government on notice that it risks losing its AAA credit
rating unless policy makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce
budget deficits and the national debt.  Republicans also say the discretionary spending they are
aiming at rose more than 20 percent in two years under President
 Barack Obama .  “Last time I checked that wasn’t the age of austerity,”
said Flake, an appropriator, referring to the 2006 spending
levels to which Republicans want to return. He favors scaling
back agriculture subsidies.  Likely targets are areas that have seen the biggest
increases in funding over the past decade, such as education,
transportation, health research and foreign assistance, said
Brian Riedl, a budget analyst for the  Heritage Foundation , a
policy research organization in  Washington .  State, Local Issue  Riedl said the impact will be limited because most of the
money for education, police and fire comes from local and state
governments, including 90 percent of K-12 education funding.  For all the debate about the deficit in Washington, bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even though Treasury
data show the amount of marketable debt outstanding has risen to
more than $9 trillion from about $4.3 trillion in mid-2007.  The budget doesn’t provide specific cuts. It sets a cap,
and the Appropriations Committee has to come up with detailed
plans in the coming months.  The  Congressional Budget Office  said in an  April report 
that Ryan’s plan “specifies a path” that would cause
government spending outside of Social Security, Medicare,
Medicaid and interest to drop to 6 percent of the gross domestic
product in 2022 from 12 percent in 2010. Spending in that
category has exceeded 8 percent of GDP in every year since World
War II, the nonpartisan agency said.  ‘Lot of Pressure’  As the population increases it becomes more difficult to
provide services with less money, said Robert Bixby, executive
director of the  Concord Coalition , which promotes balanced
budgets. Republicans will be hard-pressed to keep up the level
of cuts for five years, Bixby said.  “They will get a lot of pressure from people back in the
district -- business leaders, educators, doctors, hospitals,”
he said. “You are going to hear from the hometown interests
that the federal government isn’t doing enough to help the local
economy.”  A coalition of Christian leaders has formed a group called
“ Circle of Protection ” to prevent cuts in programs that help
the poor and needy.  “If you come after the poor, you will have to go through
us first,” Reverend Jim Wallis, an evangelical author, said on
a conference call with reporters.  Chris Hansen , president of the American Cancer Society
Cancer Action Network, said volunteers are stepping up efforts
across the country to prevent cuts to biomedical research at the
 National Institutes of Health  and cancer-prevention programs at
the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .  Republicans had proposed a $1.6 billion reduction in the
$31 billion NIH budget for this year. That was scaled back to
$260 million in negotiations with Democrats.  Simpson acknowledged the difficulty of the cuts. He said
2012 spending levels ultimately will be a compromise between the
Republican-controlled House and Democratic-controlled Senate.  “There’s no way to make this painless,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  