-- 
Ryan Says Politics Prevents ‘Grand Slam’ Agreement on Reducing U.S. Debt

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-05-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/ryan-says-congress-unlikely-to-get-grand-slam-debt-agreement.html
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  said he doesn’t expect a “grand slam” deficit-cutting
agreement that addresses the main drivers of the long-term debt,
mainly Medicare, before Congress votes on raising the debt
limit.  Any agreement should focus on discretionary spending cuts,
reductions in programs such as farm aid, and some form of budget
process overhaul without revenue increases, the Wisconsin
Republican said at a Bloomberg Breakfast in Washington
yesterday.  “I’m hoping the debt limit is an opportunity to get a down
payment on some spending cuts, to get a down payment on some
spending reform,” Ryan said.  Last month he proposed a plan to privatize Medicare, the
federal health program for the elderly, as part of his 2012
budget blueprint. The proposal, passed by the House, has become
a flash point for Democrats who say Republicans are trying to
balance the budget on the backs of the poor and elderly.  Vice President  Joe Biden  today will host talks with a
bipartisan group of House and Senate members seeking common
ground. Two Republicans who will participate in the talks, House
Majority Leader Eric Cantor of  Virginia  and Senator  Jon Kyl  of
 Arizona , sent a letter to the vice president asking that
President  Barack Obama  submit a specific proposal that can be
analyzed by the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  Congress needs a “straitjacket,” Kyl said yesterday in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “We’ve got to constrain the
spending.”  ‘Balanced and Evenhanded’  Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat and chairman of the Senate
Finance Committee, told reporters that some sort of mechanism to
constrain the deficit “makes sense,” while cautioning that
whatever is enacted has got to be “balanced and evenhanded.”  Four congressional Democrats will join the talks led by
Biden: Baucus, Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Daniel Inouye of  Hawaii , House Assistant Democratic Leader Jim Clyburn
of  South Carolina  and Maryland Representative Chris Van Hollen,
the House Budget Committee’s ranking Democrat.  Also joining the meeting will be Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , White House budget director Jack Lew and Gene Sperling, director of the National Economic Council, Biden’s
office said. The group will meet at Blair House, across the
street from the White House.  Ryan said a less ambitious agreement to raise the debt
limit is unlikely to include changes to programs like Medicare
that are the long-term drivers of the debt.  “My hope at this moment is to get a single or a double,”
he said, using baseball terminology. “We’re not going to get a
big comprehensive agreement because of just the political
parameters that have been set.”  Other areas for potential compromise are the mandatory
spending programs outside of Medicare and Social Security, such
as farm aid, Ryan said.  “We should means-test these programs,” he said. “We
shouldn’t be giving corporate farms these large agribusiness
subsidies. I strongly believe that.”  Doubts About Deal  Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels, a potential 2012 Republican
U.S. presidential candidate and former budget director for
President  George W. Bush , said he opposed raising tax rates as
part of a vote to increase the country’s debt ceiling.  Still, Daniels said, “We ought to have more tax revenues
and the way economists, really, of both sides seem to agree is
fewer preferences, lower and flatter rates.” He was interviewed
on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend.  Many lawmakers consider the debt-limit vote their best
opportunity this year to force significant changes in the
federal budget. The Treasury Department said this week that
lawmakers will need to raise the $14.3 trillion debt cap by Aug.
2, three weeks later than Treasury officials had previously
predicted.  Republican Skepticism  Ryan’s pessimism about the prospects for a “grand slam”
accord was echoed this week by Senate leaders, casting doubt on
the likelihood of such a deal.  Mike Crapo , an Idaho Republican
who is part of a bipartisan group of six senators seeking to
strike a deal, said May 3 that he may not agree to a proposal in
time for the debt-limit vote.  The Republican leader in the Senate,  Mitch McConnell  of
 Kentucky , said the lawmakers meeting with Biden today were more
likely to agree on a deficit-reduction plan.  Ryan said his view is shaped by the approaching 2012
presidential election campaign. He said he believes that
Democrats aren’t likely to agree to cuts to Medicare and Social
Security because they are more interested in creating a
political narrative that works to their benefit.  He said he “fundamentally” disagrees with former Federal
Reserve Vice Chairman  Alan Blinder ’s recent critique of his
budget as “reverse Robin Hood,” attributing that view to “a
different opinion” on the role of government.  “We believe we should focus on upper mobility and equal
opportunity, not an equalization of outcomes,” Ryan said. “We
believe the government’s role is not to equalize the results in
people’s lives, but to help people get on their feet and make
the most of their lives.”  In an April 19 opinion editorial in the Wall Street
Journal, Blinder contended that Ryan’s plan would redistribute
wealth by cutting funding from programs serving low- and
moderate-income Americans while the rich would gain from tax
cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  