-- 
Sands China Declines Most in a Month as Las Vegas Parent Misses Estimates

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-05-04T10:20:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/sands-china-shares-fall-in-premarket-hong-kong-trading.html
Sands China Ltd. (1928) ,  Asia ’s biggest
casino company by market value, declined in Hong Kong trading
after its Las Vegas-based parent reported first-quarter
earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.  Sands China fell 1.8 percent to close at HK$22 after
earlier slumping as much as 5.6 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since March 31. Today’s drop pared the stock’s gain
this year to 29 percent.  A  Macau  expansion is about five weeks behind schedule
because of a shortage of workers, Las Vegas Sands Chief
Operating Officer Michael Leven said on a conference call
yesterday. The company is in the “final stages” of
negotiating with international hotel brands for two of the
hotel towers being built on the Cotai site, Leven said.  “We have received proposals from both brands and hope to
be able to make an announcement in the next few weeks,” Sands
 China  said in a statement today. The first phase of the project
on sites 5 and 6 of Macau’s Cotai Strip may open in the first
quarter of next year, it said. Sands China earlier planned an
opening by the end of this year.  Cotai Strip  “The slide is an excellent buying opportunity,” Aaron Fischer, a Hong Kong-based consumer and gambling analyst at
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said in an interview today. The
delay of the Cotai Strip project “should not come as a major
surprise,” said Fischer, who recommends buying Sands China’s
stock.  Adelson has said he plans to recreate the  Las Vegas Strip 
on a 1.8-mile length of reclaimed land connecting two offshore
islands in Macau. He built the  Venetian Macao , the world’s
biggest casino by floor area, on the former Portuguese colony’s
Cotai Strip, and competitors have followed.  Billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) 
yesterday said first quarter net income climbed to $289.3
million, or 28 cents a share, from $17.6 million, or a loss of
4 cents a year earlier after preferred dividends. Profit
excluding items was 37 cents, less than the 44-cent average
estimate of 22 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Above Expectations’  Las Vegas Sands’ Macau  cash flow  gained 46 percent to
$378.6 million. Macau, the only place in China where casinos
are legal, saw total revenue in the industry  surge  58 percent
last year and 43 percent in the first quarter.  Macau’s  casino revenue  grew 45 percent to 20.5 billion
patacas in April, which CLSA’s Fischer said was “above
expectations.” Revenue in the first few days of May have been
exceptionally strong and in the words of one operator,
‘bordering on being irrational’,” he said.  Adelson restarted the mothballed expansion in the world’s
biggest casino center, where total casino gambling revenue is
about four times that of the Las Vegas Strip.  Gambling in the Chinese city has surged since the
government ended billionaire  Stanley Ho ’s four-decade monopoly
and allowed six companies including Las Vegas Sands,  Wynn
Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , and  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  to build resorts,
attracting more gamblers from the mainland.  Cash Flow  A low hold at Las Vegas table games hurt cash flow, Las
Vegas Sands said. Sales jumped 58 percent to $2.11 billion,
reflecting the opening of the $5.5 billion Marina Bay Sands
casino resort in  Singapore  starting in April 2010. Analysts had
projected sales of $2.14 billion, the average of 18 estimates.  Las Vegas Sands fell 10 percent to $41.28 in extended
trading after the release. The stock declined $1.64 to $45.87
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.  Cash flow, measured as adjusted property earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda,
doubled to $745.7 million, beating analysts’ projections of
$743.9 million for the quarter. Annual Ebitda will exceed $3
billion this year, Las Vegas Sands’ Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Adelson said today on a conference call.  “We feel quite confident that the $3 billion mark will be
breached, we’ll expect to go somewhat over that,” said Adelson,
who also founded the company. “One month of low hold doesn’t
make a year.”  Venetian, Palazzo  The company’s Venetian and Palazzo resorts on the Las
Vegas Strip reported Ebitda fell 40 percent to $65.2 million on
lower winnings from table games.  Singapore cash flow was $284.5 million in the quarter. The
city state allowed just two casinos, which Las Vegas Sands and
Malaysian rival  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  opened last year.  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) , 52 percent owned by Genting Bhd.,
declined 1.9 percent to S$2.08 on the city’s stock exchange.  “Think about having the entire Las Vegas Strip resident
in two casinos and we split that up,” Adelson said about
Singapore’s growth potential. “We made a billion (Ebitda)
while we still weren’t ramped up. There isn’t anything in the
future that anybody can see that will cause a diminution of
this rate of growth.”  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , the Macau casino company
part-owned by Permira Advisers LLP, slumped 3.4 percent to
HK$13.72.  Melco International Development Ltd. (200)  fell 4.6 percent,
Wynn Macau Ltd. lost 3.3 percent and Ho’s  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) 
declined 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  