-- 
Sao Paulo Ethanol May Compete With Gasoline Later This Month, Fipe Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-05-04T00:37:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/sao-paulo-ethanol-may-compete-with-gasoline-later-this-month-fipe-says.html
Ethanol may become competitive with
gasoline later this month in  Brazil ’s most populous city Sao
Paulo as prices come down with the onset of the new harvest
season, an analyst said.  Ethanol was trading at an average of 80.8 percent the price
of gasoline in April, economics research institute  Fundacao
Instituto de Pesquisas Economicas,  known as Fipe, said in an e-
mail today. That’s the highest since the institution started
taking records in January 2003, according to the statement.  The price differential may fall to 70 percent where you get
just as many miles for the gallon compared with gasoline in the
third week of May, Antonio Evaldo Comune, coordinator of
consumer price indexes at Sao Paulo-based Fipe, said over the
telephone today. Ethanol contains 30 percent less energy than
gasoline, he said.  Prices for ethanol are normally higher at the start of the
year as mills in the south shut down for the rainy season and
fall once production starts up again in mid-April, according to
Arnaldo Luiz Correa, an analyst at Archer Consulting in  Sao
Paulo .  Increased demand for ethanol amongst Brazil’s growing fleet
of flex-fuel cars and insufficient supply have led to prolonged
high prices this inter-harvest period, Correa said.  Ethanol at the pump was selling for an average of 2.33
reais ($1.47) a liter in Brazil between April 24 and 30 while
gasoline was selling for 2.89 reais, according to the  website  of
fuel regulator Agencia Nacional do Petroleo, Gas Natural e
Biocombustiveis.  In April last year, ethanol in Sao Paulo was trading at
60.1 percent the price of gasoline and in April 2009 that figure
was 51.2 percent, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 