-- 
SAP Says Amazon Crash May Hamper Industry’s Cloud Ambitions

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-05-05T09:11:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/sap-says-amazon-crash-hampers-its-late-push-into-cloud-computing.html
SAP AG (SAP) , which last July introduced its
first Web-based software after more than two years of delays,
says a recent outage in  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s cloud computing 
services makes it harder for the industry to convince clients.  The crash last month, putting Web sites across the U.S.
offline, is a reminder of the risks facing the $68 billion
industry for Internet-accessed computing services, said Sanjay Poonen, who runs SAP’s global solutions business.  ``It was a tough week” after the incident, Poonen said in a
telephone interview. “We’ll have to work harder to make people
comfortable with where cloud computing is.”  While SAP wasn’t responsible for the Amazon crash, the
resulting security concerns may hamper its efforts to win more
revenue from Internet-based software. SAP’s cloud offering, also
called on-demand software and software sold as a service, or
SaaS, is one of three areas that SAP is targeting as it aims to
reach 20 billion euros ($30 billion) annual sales by the middle
of the decade.  “We’ve had to make it a high priority so that we tell the
world that we aren’t this old dinosaur company, with only on-
premise,” Poonen said, referring to software that is installed
on customers’ in-house computers.  Advising Obama  The executive said his appointment to a commission helping
President Barack Obama’s administration to come up with industry
standards for cloud software may also help SAP rid itself of the
image as the “antithesis to the cloud.”  Amazon’s cloud-computing services crashed just days after
the so-called Cloud2 commission was  established  to make
recommendations for better deployment of Internet-based
services.  “The recent outages and challenges in cloud computing
faced by Amazon.com and Google is an opportunity for the
industry to team together to better define standards,” Poonen
said.  On April 14, the  Los Angeles Times  reported that the city’s
controller is looking into  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s delays in providing e-
mail services for 30,000 city employees as it has been unable to
meet security requirements.  Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, has billed its
cloud-computing services as a safe way for businesses to
outsource their data centers. The outage may be evidence that
companies can’t wholly rely yet on cloud services to handle all
important functions, said Vanessa Alvarez, an analyst at
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Forrester Research.  Cloud Customers  Location-based mobile service Foursquare, question-and-
answer site Formspring.me, and Reddit.com, a news aggregator
owned by Conde Nast Publications Ltd., all blamed the outage of
Amazon Web Services servers for taking down their sites.  Since July, SAP has won 400 customers for its on-demand
Business ByDesign software, the company said when releasing
first-quarter results on April 28. They include Skullcandy Inc.,
the maker of headphones, and U.K. IT consulting firm De Villier
Walton.  The global market for cloud-related services may surge to
$148.8 billion in 2014 from $68.3 billion in 2010, according to
researcher  Gartner Inc. (IT)  in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . The biggest
makers of cloud software include  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , with sales
and customer service applications used by over 90,000 customers,
and  SuccessFactors Inc. (SFSF) , which makes software used to manage
employee performance.  SAP had targeted 10,000 customers by the end of 2010 when
it first announced Business ByDesign in 2007. It is now “on
track” to reach 1,000 customers by year-end, co-Chief Executive
Officer Jim Hagemann Snabe said in April.  Cloud Commission  Overall, SAP has over 109,000 customers, including The Coca
Cola Co., luxury-goods maker Salvatore Ferragamo Italia SpA, and
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , whose iTunes music download system relies on SAP’s
order-fulfilment software.  The U.S. cloud commission will make recommendations for
industry-wide standards that will help ensure security,
resilience and availability of the services that are offered
through the Internet, Poonen said, which in turn may prompt more
customers to make the transition.  “Think about the origins of the Internet,” he said. “If
you didn’t have a standard for Internet protocol you wouldn’t
have the number of websites and e-commerce developing as they
do.”  The  TechAmerica Foundation , a Washington-based technology
trade group,  named  71 experts to the Cloud2 commission. It will
be led by Salesforce.com CEO Marc Benioff.  Digital Agenda  In the European Union, Commissioner  Neelie Kroes ,
responsible for the region’s  Digital Agenda , has also asked
providers and users of cloud computing to participate in talks
about data protection and privacy as well as technical and
commercial standards.  “The cloud is critical to  Europe ’s growth,” Kroes  said  in
March. She said the European Union needs to develop the right
legal framework, encourage more technology research and also
push the public sector to use cloud computing similar to the
strategy by U.S. Chief Information Officer Vivek Kundra.  Kundra said in April that U.S. agencies are making progress
in moving computer systems to the cloud, a key component in the
administration’s strategy to reduce information technology
costs. Systems valued at $20 billion may move to the cloud, a
shared pool of computing resources including servers and data
storage operated by contractors, he said.  On-Demand Software  SAP targets mid-sized companies with its ByDesign on-demand
software and for larger customers it will roll out software that
manages sales, talent management for human resources, travel and
expense tracking and sourcing for procurement divisions.  Poonen said it will probably take some time before “the
largest Fortune 50 companies move their entire accounting
systems and financials into the cloud.”  “We’ll be watching that closely and you can be sure that
as ByDesign scales from 1,000 customers to 100,000 customers,
we’ll be ready for that.”  SAP shares rose 15.5 cents, or 0.4 percent, to 43.36 euros
at 11:04 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has gained 14
percent this year, giving the company a market value of 53.2
billion euros.  Since co-CEOs Bill McDermott and Snabe took the helm from
the now  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  CEO  Leo Apotheker  in February last
year, they have pursued a three-pronged strategy of making their
software available on-premise, on-demand and on-device, the
latter with the $5.8 billion acquisition of Sybase Inc., a maker
of mobile device applications.  So far, the company hasn’t set sales targets for on-demand
and on-device software.  “We’ve heard them talk about on-premise, on demand and on
device, but currently it is only on-premise that is paying the
rent,” said Heidelberg, Germany-based Gartner Inc. analyst
Thomas Otter. “They need to start delivering in the second
half.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  