-- 
HSBC Seeks Dismissal of Madoff Trustee Lawsuit, Cites $1 Billion in Losses

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-04T16:42:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/hsbc-seeks-dismissal-of-madoff-trustee-lawsuit-cites-1-billion-in-losses.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  asked a judge to
dismiss a lawsuit filed by the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s firm, saying he isn’t allowed by law to bring such
suits on behalf of the confidence man’s customers.  Trustee Irving H. Picard in December sued HSBC and a dozen
so-called feeder funds for $9 billion, accusing them of aiding
Madoff’s fraud. A U.S. District Court judge temporarily took the
case out of  bankruptcy court  to decide whether Picard can bring
common-law claims such as unjust enrichment and can sue on
behalf of customers, since his job is to liquidate the Madoff
firm.  “The trustee has no standing to bring the common law
claims on behalf of BLMIS,” HSBC said yesterday in a U.S.
District Court filing in  New York , referring to Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC. “The trustee has no standing
to bring the common law claims on behalf of all BLMIS
customers.”  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, declined to comment.  HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank, also is facing lawsuits from
feeder funds and their investors, who claim the bank failed to
fulfill custody and administrative duties to them.  Picard, who has filed more than 1,000 suits seeking money
for investors in the Ponzi scheme, alleged the bank was aware of
concerns that Madoff’s investment business was fraudulent and
didn’t take steps to protect investors.  ‘Badges of Fraud’  “Had HSBC and the defendants reacted appropriately to such
warnings and other obvious badges of fraud outlined in the
complaint, the Madoff  Ponzi scheme  would have collapsed years,
billions of dollars and countless victims sooner,” Picard said
in a December statement.  The bank said it lost almost $1 billion of its own money
investing in feeder funds, “a fact that clearly undermines the
trustee’s claim that HSBC was on notice of Madoff’s fraud,” it
said in the filing. As Picard himself alleges that Madoff was
the “mastermind” of the fraud, established legal rules bar him
from suing HSBC “for alleged assistance of what in essence was
his own fraud,” it said.  Picard, in addition, is competing with feeder funds and
investors that have sued HSBC, and should be stopped from trying
to recover the same losses as they are, the bank said.  Saying Picard intends to claim any money recovered by
investors, the bank said “he is attempting to steal their
claims, along with the funds’ claims, and planning to provide
the fruits of any recoveries to other parties,” on the
principle of “robbing Peter to pay Paul.”  ‘Absurd Result’  The judge should deny Picard standing to sue, “to avoid an
absurd and unconstitutional result,” it said.  Picard said in April he had recovered $7.6 billion for
investors, or about 44 percent of estimated principal lost in
the Ponzi scheme since Madoff’s 2008 arrest. Doing so, he and
his law firm, Baker & Hostetler LLP, have requested $175.5
million in fees.  The appeal is Irving H. Picard v. HSBC Bank Plc, 11-
cv-0763, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  