-- 
SEC’s Schapiro Says Agency to Start Hiring, Bolster Technology

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-05-04T14:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/sec-s-schapiro-says-agency-to-start-hiring-bolster-technology.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is using a $74 million funding boost stemming from a
congressional budget compromise to hire derivatives specialists,
boost oversight of credit-rating and catch up on Dodd-Frank Act
requirements, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told lawmakers.  The money will partially address the agency’s “capacity
gap” by allowing hiring in its enforcement, inspections and
trading and markets units, Schapiro said today in testimony
prepared for a Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing on
fiscal year 2012 budgets for the SEC and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  The two agencies -- which had been operating under their
fiscal 2010 budget limits during a congressional stalemate over
spending for the current fiscal year -- got additional funding
under a compromise plan approved last month. Schapiro and CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  had said the impasse threatened to derail
efforts to carry out new responsibilities imposed by Dodd-Frank.  At today’s hearing, Schapiro and Gensler will urge senators
to approve President  Barack Obama ’s 2012 budget requests of $1.4
billion for the SEC and $308 million for the CFTC.  Gensler, in his prepared remarks, said the money could be
used to hire additional employees to oversee an estimated 300
futures brokers and swap dealers, 20 clearinghouses and as many
as 40 so-called swap execution facilities required by Dodd-
Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted last year.  “It is essential that the CFTC have additional resources
to reduce risk and promote transparency in the swaps markets,”
Gensler said in his testimony.  The CFTC got an additional $34 million for its current
budget under last month’s congressional compromise. Gensler said
that money will let the agency “grow modestly to approximately
720 employees.”  Schapiro said she will spend some of the $74 million her
agency received to make investments in computer technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 