-- 
SEC Requests Comment on Increased Disclosure for Short Sellers

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-04T17:30:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/sec-requests-comment-on-increased-disclosure-for-short-sellers.html
U.S. regulators asked for  public
comment  on a plan to require real-time reporting of bearish
stock bets known as short sales, a measure called for by the
Dodd-Frank Act passed last year.  The Securities and Exchange Commission is considering a
volunteer pilot program in which each short-sale trade would be
immediately reported on the so-called consolidated tape where
all equity transactions are recorded. The agency, which must
submit its findings to Congress by July 21, is also studying
real-time disclosure of short-sale positions either publicly or
to regulators, according to a statement today.  The SEC opened the comment period with 23 questions on the
monitoring of short selling. It’s seeking comment “on both the
existing uses of short selling in securities markets and the
adequacy or inadequacy of currently available information
regarding short sales,” the regulator said.  Short selling accounts for almost half of U.S. equities
volume, the SEC said, based on data provided by exchanges for
June 2010. Stock markets make some data about the sales
available twice a month while vendors offer information about
the cost to borrow securities to support those transactions and
the portion of shares that have been borrowed from the available
pool for an individual stock, the SEC said.  The agency is asking questions such as: “Would real time
reporting of the short positions of all investors,
intermediaries, and market participants be feasible, and if so,
in what ways would it be beneficial?” and “Do costs or other
factors limit access to currently available data?”  The SEC’s report on short selling will be one of more than
20 studies required of the SEC by Dodd-Frank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  