-- 
Service Industries in U.S. Probably Accelerated in April

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-04T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/services-in-u-s-probably-expanded-at-faster-pace-weathering-fuel-costs.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably accelerated in April, a sign the biggest part of the
economy is weathering increases in fuel prices, economists said
before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing companies rose to 57.5 from 57.3 in March,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Another report may show companies added 198,000
workers to payrolls last month.  Gains in employment and stock prices, along with falling
debt levels, are helping to underpin the consumer spending that
makes up 70 percent of the economy. Still, gasoline prices at
their highest levels in almost three years are blunting
purchases of other goods and services, one reason why the
 Federal Reserve  last week said it would maintain record monetary
stimulus after ending bond purchases in June.  “Things are still getting better in the services sector,”
said Neil Dutta, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in  New York . “The real question is when does the rise in
gasoline prices start to bite.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s report is due at 10 a.m. New
York time. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 73 economists
ranged from 54.5 to 59. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.
Last month’s projected figure would be the third-strongest in
the recovery that began in June 2009.  Data from ADP Employer Services, due at 8:15 a.m., will
show the increase in private payrolls last month was close to
the 201,000 March gain, according to the Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Previous Expansion  ISM’s index of services industries, which account for
almost 90 percent of the economy, averaged 56.1 in the five
years to December 2007, when the last recession began.  Fueled by spreading unrest in the Middle East, the average
price of a gallon of regular gasoline at the pump advanced to
$3.97 on May 2, the highest since July 2008, according to data
from AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring group.  Forced to spend more for food and fuel, household purchases
have cooled.  Consumer spending  adjusted for inflation rose at a
2.7 percent annual pace in the first quarter, down from 4
percent in the last three months of 2010, the Commerce
Department said last week.  The ISM services survey covers industries that range from
utilities and retailing to health care, finance and
transportation. Today’s report will follow the group’s May 2
figures that showed manufacturing grew more than forecast in
April, driven by gains in exports and inventories.  Current Expansion  The services gauge has averaged 53.1 since the recovery
started in June 2009 through March, trailing the 56.2 reading on
the group’s factory measure during the same period.  Retail stocks have underperformed machinery and equipment
makers this year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer
Discretionary Index has gained 8.2 percent so far this year,
compared with an 11 percent gain for the S&P Supercomposite
Machinery Index.  The factory rebound, which is driven by exports and
corporate investment, is generating more demand for services.
Companies like restaurants and airlines are seeing enough demand
to pass increased costs onto consumers.  Denver-based  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) , the burrito chain
spun off from McDonald’s Corp. in 2006, last month reported a 23
percent gain in first-quarter profit as consumers dined out
more. The company raised prices last quarter on the West coast
and plans to begin increasing prices elsewhere to recover higher
costs.  Raising Prices  “We continue to believe we have pricing power, but we want
to be patient and allow our transactions to hold as strong as
possible in this still-recovering economy,”  Chief Financial
Officer John Hartung said on an April 20 conference call.  The economy probably generated 185,000 jobs in April after
gaining 216,000 the prior month, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the Labor
Department’s May 6 report.  Companies are turning more optimistic about hiring.  Oak
Brook , Illinois-based  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest
restaurant chain by revenue, sought as many as 50,000 workers in
the U.S. during its National Hiring Day event on April 19.  “The economic recovery is proceeding at a moderate pace
and overall conditions in the labor market are improving
gradually,” the Fed said last week after its latest policy
meeting. “Household spending and business investment in
equipment and software continue to expand.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  