-- 
Siemens Raises Full-Year Profit Forecast to $11.1 Billion on Higher Sales

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-05-04T10:23:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/siemens-raises-full-year-profit-forecast-as-sales-advance.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, said profit this year will rise at least 75
percent, more than it previously anticipated, as customers buy
more industrial equipment and a unit overhaul starts to pay off.  Net income from continued operations will rise to at least
7.5 billion euros ($11.1 billion) in the year ending Sept. 30,
from 4.3 billion euros a year earlier, Siemens said today. The
Munich-based company previously predicted an increase of as much
as 35 percent. Sales growth will be a “mid-single digit”
percentage, from an earlier forecast of “moderate growth.”  “The outlook is still pretty conservative, it leaves room
for improvement,” said James Stettler, an equity analyst at
UniCredit in  London . After stripping out non-recurring items,
Siemens’s profit guidance is for an increase of about 10
percent, he said. He recommends clients to buy the shares and
sees them rising to 100 euros within a year.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  is accelerating a
reorganization as he sells the computer-services division, the
source of years of losses, and prepares the Osram GmbH lighting
subsidiary for an initial public offering later this year.
Loescher said he’s “proactively” scouring the globe for
acquisition targets, after largely refraining from purchases in
the last three years.  Stock Performance  Siemens dropped as much as 2.37 euros, or 2.4 percent, to
95.02 euros in Frankfurt, trimming this year’s gain to 3.9
percent.  General Electric Co. (GE)  has risen 13 percent this year,
while Royal Philips Electronics NV, the largest manufacturer of
lighting equipment, has fallen 10 percent since the start of
2011.  In the second quarter ended March 31, income from
continuing operations more than doubled to 3.17 billion euros,
Siemens said today. Siemens booked a 1.52 billion-euro gain in
the quarter from the sale of a stake in a venture with  Areva SA (CEI) ,
the French maker of nuclear plants. Sales rose to 17.72 billion
euros, from an adjusted 16.52 billion euros.  “We’ve achieved outstanding, broad-based orders growth,”
Loescher said in a statement.  Challenges  Siemens said a month ago that growth in the second half
will ease and predicted “continued challenges” at some
renewable-energy businesses. The operating margin at the
subsidiary fell by half in the quarter, Siemens said.  Possible acquisitions should be “bolt-on” in nature and
could amount to 1 billion euros to 3 billion euros,  Chief
Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said on a call for analysts.  Order intake in the quarter grew 28 percent to 20.65
billion euros as of March 31. Plant and machinery orders in
Germany, Europe’s largest economy, increased 32 percent in the
three months to March, the country’s VDMA machine makers’
association said May 3.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  on April 27 said first-quarter
profit rose 41 percent on demand for automation equipment.  Order growth at 77 percent was highest in Germany, and rose
58 percent in  India  and 15 percent in  China . Orders from
emerging markets amounted to 7.48 billion euros, an increase of
52 percent.  Discontinued Operations  Siemens labeled businesses with almost 9 billion euros in
fiscal 2010 sales as discontinued operations following the plan
to sell the computer division and list the lighting subsidiary.
Those operations posted a loss of 338 million euros in the
quarter, stemming largely from the IT unit.  Osram contributed profit of 87 million euros, after 91
million last year. New orders and sales at Osram rose about ten
percent in the quarter, Kaeser said.  Loescher said the preparation for the IPO is going
according to plan, and that the share sale is still slated for
the latter part of the year. A listing of Osram would be among
the largest IPOs in  Germany  in a decade. Siemens aims to sell a
majority stake in Osram, and selection of banks for the process
will be completed shortly.  Areva Stake  The sale of the stake to Areva helped profit at the fossil
power division rise more than sixfold to 2.05 billion euros. The
profit margin in fossil power increased to 20.8 percent
excluding the gain from the sale. Profit at the renewable energy
division fell 53 percent to 48 million euros as the company
expands its wind energy operations.  At the industry businesses, profit grew 60 percent at
industry automation, while earnings declined in the building
technologies and mobility divisions. Earnings in health care
fell 4 percent in the quarter, Siemens said.  Siemens booked a gain of 91 million euros for the sale of
its stake in armored-vehicle maker Krauss-Maffei Wegmann GmbH in
December.  While Siemens routinely receives indications of interest
from investors for its Nokia Siemens Networks joint venture, the
focus for the time being is on improving performance, Kaeser
said. The Enterprise Communications joint venture has been
“nicely revamped,” the CFO said, declining to comment if the
company considers listing the unit.  Bloomberg on April 29 reported that the company is weighing
an initial public offerings of their business that sells phone
equipment and services to companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Richard Weiss} in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  