-- 
Simon Cowell Breaks Top 10 on Music Rich List as Fortune Grows

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-05-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/simon-cowell-breaks-top-10-on-music-rich-list-mackintosh-s-fortune-grows.html
Simon Cowell , the pop impresario known
for TV shows such as “ American Idol ,” has amassed a fortune of
200 million pounds ($331 million), enough to propel him into the
Top 10 of U.K. musical millionaires, the Sunday Times said.  Cowell, 51, increased his personal wealth by 35 million
pounds over the past year, taking him to No. 6 from 11 in the
music section of the Sunday Times Rich List, which will be
published on May 8, the newspaper said.  “Simon Cowell owns a share of the programs he’s involved
in as well as being in front of the camera,” Rich List editor
Ian Coxon said yesterday in a telephone interview. “He’s busy
behind the scenes and also responsible for many of the
performers, so he’s making pots of money in all directions.”  The annual Sunday Times Rich List is based on identifiable
wealth, including land, property and other assets such as art
and racehorses, or significant shares in publicly quoted
companies, and excludes bank accounts, the paper said.  The music millionaires are led by South African-born Clive Calder, with a 1.3 billion-pound fortune from the sale of Zomba
Records in 2002.  Andrew Lloyd Webber  takes second place with 680
million pounds, even though he managed to drop 20 million pounds
during the year, according to the Sunday Times. The third place
is taken by his fellow impresario Cameron Mackintosh, whose
wealth increased by 40 million pounds to 675 million pounds.  New entries include Moya Doherty and John McColgan (70
million pounds), who own the show “ Riverdance ,” and AC/DC’s
lead singer,  Brian Johnson  (50 million pounds).  ‘X Factor’  The soprano Katherine Jenkins, 30, with 13 million pounds,
is the richest on the list of those aged 30 or under, followed
by Cheryl Cole, a panelist with Cowell on “The X Factor” in
the U.K., and  Leona Lewis , who came first on that show in 2006.  A U.S. version of “The X Factor” is planned. It hasn’t
yet been announced if Cole will appear as a judge. Cowell has
left “ American Idol ” to work on the show.  Cole, Lewis and  Katie Mehlua  have 12 million pounds apiece,
the paper said. The top new entry among the young millionaires
is Adele, a joint ninth, with six million pounds.  Taio Cruz  and
Florence Welch, each worth 5 million pounds, are also new.  The members of U2 have a combined fortune of 455 million
pounds, up by 26 million pounds. They head the Irish music
millionaires.  Edgar Bronfman, chairman and chief executive of Warner
Music Group, who topped the music list last year, has returned
to the U.S. and is excluded as a result, Coxon said.  The Sunday Times Rich List will appear in a supplement that
profiles the 1,000 richest people and families in the U.K. and
the top 250 in Ireland. It is compiled by Philip Beresford.  Here are the Top 30 music millionaires:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 