-- 
Slam-Dunk Champ Blake Griffin Unanimously Wins NBA Rookie of Year Award

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-05-04T20:45:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/slam-dunk-champ-blake-griffin-unanimously-wins-nba-rookie-of-year-award.html
Los Angeles Clippers  forward Blake Griffin won another trophy from the  National Basketball
Association , this time without cuing the choir and dunking over
the hood of a car.  Griffin was named the league’s Rookie of the Year today,
three months after winning the dunk contest on the All-Star Game
weekend. The 22-year-old forward won that contest in front of
his hometown fans at the Staples Center after he leapt over a
sedan while a gospel choir sang R. Kelly’s “I Believe I Can
Fly.”  Griffin averaged 22.5 points, 12.1 rebounds and 3.8 assists
per game in his first professional season. He was the only NBA
player to average over 20 points, 12 rebounds and three assists
per game this year.  Griffin received all 118 first-place votes, the
first unanimous selection since David Robinson in 1990.
Washington Wizards guard  John Wall  was second in the voting,
followed by  Sacramento Kings  forward DeMarcus Cousins and New
York Knicks guard Landry Fields.  The No. 1 draft pick out of the  University of Oklahoma  in
2009, Griffin sat out the 2009-10 season with a broken knee cap.
He is the fourth player to win the award after not playing the
season he was drafted, joining Basketball Hall of Fame members
Robinson, Larry Bird and Jerry Lucas.  Griffin won the NBA’s Western Conference Rookie of the
Month award during all six months of the season, the first
rookie to do so since New Orleans Hornets guard Chris Paul five
years ago. He was also the league’s first rookie All-Star since
 Houston Rockets  forward Yao Ming in 2003.  Griffin led  Los Angeles  in points, rebounds and assists
this season. The Clippers finished 32-50, their 17th losing
season in the last 18 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 