-- 
Sony Said to Be Subpoenaed by New York State After PlayStation Data Breach

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-05-04T22:13:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/sony-said-to-be-subpoenaed-by-new-york-over-data-breaches-1-.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  was subpoenaed by New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  over data breaches of its
PlayStation Network and Sony Online unit, and representations
made to customers, a person familiar with the probe said.  The subpoenas follow the company’s statement that it was
attacked by computer hackers between April 16 and April 19.
Tokyo-based Sony said May 2 that the attack on its PlayStation
Network and Qriocity online music and film service in mid-April
also gave hackers access to data from Sony Online Entertainment,
a separate unit that makes role-playing games.  Hackers gained access to 23,400 credit card and debit
records from non-U.S. customers and the personal account
information of 24.6 million account holders through the SOE
network alone. The thieves had access to user names, birth
dates, addresses and passwords of at least 77 million customers
in all, Sony said.  The Tokyo-based company apologized for the breach and said
it is cooperating with authorities, including the FBI. The
company has faced a legal and regulatory backlash over delays in
the time it took lawmakers to warn its customers. Sony alerted
customers of a breach on April 26, six days after shutting down
the PlayStation Network and Qriocity service.  Schneiderman is seeking information on what Sony told
customers about the security of their networks, as part of a
consumer protection inquiry, said the person familiar with the
matter, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Forensic Evidence  Sony was concerned “that announcing partial or tentative
information to consumers could cause confusion and lead them to
take unnecessary actions if the information was not fully
corroborated by forensic evidence,” the company said in a
letter today in response to questions about the breach from the
U.S. House subcommittee on commerce and trade.  Patrick Seybold, a spokesman for Sony, said in an e-mailed
statement that “we will review and respond to this request and
will continue to work with law enforcement authorities as they
investigate the criminal attack on our networks.”  Lauren Passalacqua, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman,
declined to comment today on the subpoenas.  Hackers exploited a known security vulnerability to gain
access to 77 million PlayStation Network and Qriocity user
names, addresses, gender, birth dates and other information,
Sony has said. It wasn’t clear how many of the 24.6 million
accounts in the newly reported breach share duplicate user
information.  The FBI’s San Diego office is investigating the matter,
said agent Darrell Foxworth, a spokesman for the office.  Service Attack  Sony said in its letter today that while looking into the
Sony Online Entertainment breach, it discovered that intruders
had “planted a file on one of those servers named ‘Anonymous’
with the words ‘We are Legion.’” The company noted that weeks
before several Sony divisions had been the “target of a large-
scale, coordinated denial of service attack” by Anonymous, a
hacker-activist group.  Sony was singled out in a statement by ‘Anonymous’ after
the company sued George Hotz, a 21-year-old hacker who
publicized tools for playing unauthorized games on the
PlayStation console. The group issued a separate statement
denying responsibility for the PlayStation Network disruption,
while saying some of its members may be behind it.  “If anyone from AnonOps did that, they’re not talking
about it,” said Barrett Brown, an informal spokesman for
Anonymous, referring to the “operations” group that carried
out so-called denial of service attacks against Sony company
websites in April.  Potential Clues  Sony has hired Protiviti Inc.,  Guidance Software Inc. (GUID)  and
Data Forte Corp, three cyber security firms, to aid in the
breach investigation, according to Seybold. The companies will
work with the FBI in tracking potential clues left behind by the
hackers and try to discover if the thieves still have access to
the gaming network.  In response to the intrusion, Sony also named a new chief
information security officer, added software and enhanced
encryption to defend against new attacks, implemented new
firewalls and expedited its plan to move its system to a new
 data center  with enhanced security.  A lawsuit was filed April 27 in federal court in  San
Francisco  alleging the delay in notification left PlayStation
users exposed to losses related to any  credit-card  data theft.
Officials in the U.K. and Ireland began inquiries. And the
Toronto law firm McPhadden Samac Tuovi LLP sent out a statement
yesterday saying it had commenced a proposed class action
against Sony seeking damages in excess of $1 billion.  Exposed Information  The breach of Sony Online Entertainment exposed information
from an outdated 2007 database, including about 12,700 non-U.S.
credit or debit card numbers and expiration dates, Sony has
said. The credit-card information didn’t include security codes,
the company said. The three- and four-digit codes are used as a
second source of authentication for many online vendors.  The stolen data may include 10,700 direct debit records of
customers in  Austria ,  Germany , the Netherlands and  Spain . The
compromised debit account information included customer names,
bank account numbers and account names, Sony has said.  Sony also suggested customer passwords may have been less
vulnerable than originally thought.  Passwords were protected by a level of security called hash
algorithm in which the word users type in is converted on Sony’s
servers to a string of characters entirely unrelated to the
original password, Seybold has said on the company’s official
blog.  Sony units Computer Entertainment America LLC, Sony Network
Entertainment and Sony Online Entertainment LLC were all
subpoenaed by the New York Attorney General over the breaches
and what the company told customers about them, the person
familiar with the matter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in  New York  at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net  and;
Michael Riley in  Washington  at   mriley17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 