-- 
Sony Responds to Questions From Congress on Its Data-Breach Attack

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 
2011-05-04T18:59:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/sony-responds-to-lawmakers-questions-in-its-data-breach-attack.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , maker of the PlayStation 3
video-game console, defended its decision to wait six days to
warn customers about an attack on its online entertainment
networks last month that exposed their personal information.  The company, which has been criticized by U.S. lawmakers
for not informing users more quickly, said today it waited
because it did not want to “cause confusion” by “announcing
partial or tentative information,” according to a letter sent
to U.S. lawmakers.  Hackers gained access to user names, addresses, gender,
birth dates and other information on 77 million customers, Sony
said. Evidence of an intrusion in Sony’s PlayStation Network and
Qriocity online music and film service was discovered April 20,
according to the letter. The company contacted the U.S.  Federal
Bureau of Investigation on April 22, according to the letter,
and customers were alerted on April 26.  The breach has raised fresh questions about the security of
online data and prompted scrutiny from regulators and lawmakers.
U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  told lawmakers today that the
 Justice Department  is investigating the intrusion, and New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  has subpoenaed the company,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Sony declined to appear today at a U.S. House subcommittee
hearing on  data theft  and sent the letter in response to
questions from committee Chairwoman Mary Bono Mack, a California
Republican, and G.K. Butterfield, a North Carolina Democrat who
is the panel’s ranking minority member. Lawmakers have been
frustrated at the time it took Sony to warn its customers.  ‘Right to Know’  “I fundamentally believe that all consumers have a right
to know when their personal information has been compromised,
and Sony, as well as other companies, have an overriding
responsibility to alert them immediately,” Bono Mack said at
the hearing.  Bono Mack called the decision by Sony not to testify at
today’s hearing “unacceptable” and said the country needs a
“uniform national standard for data security and data breach
notification.” She said she plans to introduce legislation
providing more safeguards for  identity theft .  Sony said May 2 that the April attack on its PlayStation
Network and Qriocity service also gave hackers access to data
from Sony Online Entertainment, a separate unit that makes role-
playing games. Hackers gained access to 23,400 credit-card and
debit records from non-U.S. customers and the personal account
information of 24.6 million account holders.  ‘Anonymous’ Group  Sony, in its letter to U.S. lawmakers, said while looking
into the Sony Online Entertainment breach, it discovered that
intruders had “planted a file on one of those servers named
’Anonymous’ with the words ‘We are Legion.’” The company noted
that weeks before several Sony divisions had been the “target
of a large-scale, coordinated denial-of-service attack” by
Anonymous, a hacker-activist group.  Sony was singled out in a statement by ‘Anonymous’ after
the company sued George Hotz, a 21-year-old hacker who
publicized instructions for playing unauthorized games on the
PlayStation console. The group issued a separate statement
denying responsibility for the PlayStation Network disruption,
while saying some of its members may be behind it.  “If anyone from AnonOps did that, they’re not talking
about it,” said Barrett Brown, an informal spokesman for
Anonymous, referring to the ‘operations’ group that had attacked
Sony company websites in April.  Credit-Card Information  It’s unclear whether users’ credit-card information was
stolen, and as of today, major credit-card companies haven’t
reported an increase in the number of fraudulent transactions as
a result of the attack, Sony said.  The Sony intrusion follows a March 30 breach at Alliance
Data System Corp.’s Epsilon Data Management LLC, which resulted
in the theft of customer data at banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and JPMorgan Chase & Co., as well as retailers Best Buy Co. and
Walgreen Co. Epsilon also declined to testify at today’s
hearing.  If personal information falls into the wrong hands,
“consumers could lose confidence in the marketplace,”  David Vladeck , the U.S. Federal Trade Commission’s director of
consumer protection, told the lawmakers.  The FTC supports legislation that would create data
security standards for companies and require companies “in
appropriate circumstances” to notify consumers about security
breaches, Vladeck said.  Sony’s Response  In response to the intrusion, Sony has named a new chief
information security officer, has added software and enhanced
encryption to defend against new attacks, implemented new
firewalls and has expedited its plan to move its system to a new
 data center  with enhanced security.  Sony has hired Protiviti Inc.,  Guidance Software Inc. (GUID)  and
Data Forte Corp., three cybersecurity firms, to aid in the
breach investigation, according to Patrick Seybold, a Sony
spokesman. The companies will work with the FBI in tracking
potential clues left behind by the hackers and try to discover
if the thieves still have access to the gaming network.  The financial impact Sony faces depends on how well the
company convinces customers it “will make things right,”
 Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Securities in  Los
Angeles , said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. He
estimates credit-card fraud, repairs to its networks and
marketing costs will amount to $50 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Riddell in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  