-- 
South African Apartheid System Spawned Serial Killers, Rapists, Vavi Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-05-04T11:36:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/south-african-apartheid-system-spawned-serial-killers-rapists-vavi-says.html
South Africa ’s apartheid system that
robbed Africans of their land and fostered a system of migrant
labor has led to a “moral decay,” spawning rapists and serial
killers, said  Zwelinzima Vavi , the leader of the country’s
largest labor body.  Vavi was addressing the families of 13 women killed by
Thozamile Taki, who was handed 13 life sentences and 208 years
in prison in January. He cited four other serial killers in
post-apartheid South Africa and widespread sexual violence.  “We have a massive crisis on our hands,” the general
secretary of the Congress of South African Trade Unions said in
an e-mailed copy of a speech today. “While of course other
countries have produced gruesome lists of killers, South
 Africa ’s history has created conditions under which there is a
greater number of serial rapists and murderers. The problem is
rooted in our colonial and apartheid history.”  The proportion of fathers who live apart from their
families rose to 48 percent in 2009 from 42 percent in 1996, two
years after the end of white-minority rule, Vavi said. That
increase is linked to an increase in teenage pregnancies and
rape, “further evidence of moral decay,” according to Vavi.  “It is becoming more and more urgent, if we are to prevent
a full-blown social and political crisis, to restructure our
economy to one that creates jobs, gives people a living wage and
makes our society more equal and just,” Vavi said.  Cosatu, which is in alliance with the ruling  African
National Congress , is pushing for lower  interest rates  to
stimulate growth and bring down the 25 percent jobless rate in
Africa’s biggest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 