-- 
South Korean Lawmakers Clear Last Barrier to EU Trade Agreement

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-04T15:25:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/south-korean-lawmakers-clear-last-barrier-to-eu-trade-agreement.html
South Korean lawmakers passed a free-
trade agreement with the European Union, clearing the last
hurdle for the world’s second-biggest trade deal to come into
effect in July.  The National Assembly endorsed the accord today in  Seoul  in
a 163-1 vote, with 5 abstentions. The deal is eclipsed only by
the $1 trillion, 1994  North American Free Trade Agreement 
between the U.S.,  Canada  and  Mexico .  The EU-Korea agreement will expand their 70 billion-euro
($105 billion) trade relationship by making 99 percent of
commerce duty-free within five years. The vote comes as  South
Korea  prepares to ratify another trade pact with the U.S.  “This is a landmark agreement and a benchmark for what we
want to achieve with other key trading partners,” EU Trade
Commissioner Karel De Gucht said in an e-mailed statement in
Brussels after today’s vote. “This free-trade agreement will
create growth, jobs, consumer benefits and boost exports,
competitiveness and investment in both the Korean and the EU
economies.”  The agreement with the EU will help South Korean textile,
electronics and automakers, including Seoul-based  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380) , to increase exports, which account for about half of the
country’s gross domestic product. Exports helped the economy
expand 6.2 percent last year, the most since 2002.  Economic Boost  South Korea’s GDP may increase by 3.08 percent, or 24
trillion won ($22 billion), in the “long term” because of the
deal, according to a 2009 study by the state-run Korea Institute
for International Economic Policy.  European companies that may benefit include pharmaceutical
producers such as London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , chemical
makers including  BASF SE (BAS) , based in Ludwigshafen,  Germany , and
consumer-electronics manufacturers like Amsterdam-based Royal
Philips Electronics NV. Farm exporters, shipping businesses and
the financial- and legal-services industries also stand to gain.  The EU and Korea signed the accord in October and the
European Parliament passed it in February. The deal will
eliminate Korean  import duties  worth 1.6 billion euros annually
and European levies of 1.1 billion euros, according to the EU.  U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke visited South Korea last
week, calling for speedy ratification of the trade deal between
the two countries. He said failure to pass the pact would hand
rivals to U.S. companies an advantage in the Asian nation.  The U.S. and South Korea agreed in December to change
provisions in the pact, which had been stalled by legislators
since it was signed in 2007 over U.S. demands for improved
access for its cars and beef.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at   blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  