-- 
South Africa Champions African Moves to Profit From World’s ‘New Reality’

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-05-04T16:24:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/south-africa-champions-african-moves-to-profit-from-world-s-new-reality-.html
South  Africa  is championing Africa’s
investment opportunities as the continent of 1 billion people
adapts to a “new reality” in which emerging-market giants such
as  China  and  India  drive global economic growth and trade.  Five months after it was invited to join the BRICS
political group, which includes Brazil, Russia, India and China,
Africa’s biggest economy is hosting the World Economic Forum in
Cape Town from today. The theme of the meeting is “Shaping
Africa’s Role in the New Reality,” with discussions focused on
boosting trade among developing nations.  China’s trade with Africa grew 10-fold to $107 billion
between 2000 and 2008, with the world’s most populous nation
becoming Africa’s top trading partner the year after that,
China’s Ministry of Commerce said in a February report. Africa’s
trade with  Brazil , Russia, India and China will climb to $530
billion by 2015 from $150 billion in 2010, according to
estimates by Johannesburg-based Standard Bank Group Ltd.,
Africa’s biggest lender.  “Emerging economies are moving faster, becoming
dominant,” South African President Jacob Zuma said at the
conference today. “These are new voices we can no longer
ignore. It is necessary now to develop very urgently the kind of
partnerships with the world that are different from the past.”  The three-day meeting will be attended by at least six
heads of states, including Zuma and Tanzania’s Jakaya Kikwete,
and the chiefs of Barclays Plc’s  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) ,  Anglo Platinum
Ltd. (AMS) , Nestle SA and other companies.  ‘New Reality’  Indian Commerce and Trade Minister  Anand Sharma  is the
highest-ranking official from that country attending the
meeting, while China will be represented by Liu Guijin, special
representative for African Affairs at the Foreign Ministry.  “In our hosting of WEF Africa, we will confidently say
that  South Africa  is indeed responding to the new reality,”
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on May 2. “The country is
ideally placed in the shifting poles of power and economic
growth, not only as an emerging market, but also as a leading
economy on a continent that has become an indispensible partner
in the global economy and is home to approximately 15 percent of
the world’s population.”  Trade Deals  African nations are winning more investment and trade deals
from emerging markets such as China, India and Brazil,
displacing traditional markets of the U.S. and  Europe . Africa
now conducts half of its trade with developing economic regions,
according to the World Economic Forum.  “Africa should trade with whoever they can get the best
prices from,” Shantayanan Devarajan, the World Bank’s chief
economist for Africa, said in an interview in  Cape Town  today.
“It so happens that it’s the emerging markets that are growing
rapidly at the moment. There isn’t much growth in the
traditional partners, such as Europe and the United States.”  Developing countries are becoming a bigger source for
investment into Africa, according to research by Ernst & Young
LLP. Investment activity by emerging economies increased 13
percent annually between 2003 and 2010, almost double the 7
percent growth for developed nations, the business consulting
company said in a report, titled Africa Attractiveness Survey,
released yesterday.  “Developed economies will be overtaken by emerging
economies in terms of investment into new projects in Africa by
2023,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 