-- 
Standard Chartered Pledges Cost Control as Competition Rises

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-05-04T15:44:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/standard-chartered-first-quarter-income-grew-in-double-digits-.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K. bank
that makes three-quarters of its profit in  Asia , said employee
numbers dropped in the first quarter as competition raised
pressure on profitability.  Overall margins were stable and the bank has a “firm
grip” on expenses, with the number of employees declining by
800 from 85,000 at the end of last year as more people left the
bank than were hired, Finance Director Richard Meddings told
reporters on a conference call today. The bank still plans to
add 1,000 employees by the year end, he said. The shares fell
the most in more than five months.  “Costs remain well controlled,” said Meddings. “We have
made an excellent start to the year.”  The bank had “double digit” revenue growth in the first
quarter, with consumer and corporate banking expanding as it
sought an eighth successive year of record profit. Meddings told
reporters they could “deduce” that the London-based bank had
record profit in three months to March 31, on a conference call
today.  “Whereas there is probably not enough in  Standard
Chartered ’s first quarter interim management statement to
deliver a positive market reaction today, we still see it as
fundamentally reassuring, underpinning existing consensus
expectations, and confirming that the growth story continues
apace,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in
London, in an e-mailed note to investors today.  The shares declined 3.7 percent to 1604 pence at the close
of London trading, the biggest drop since November and the worst
performance in the five-member FTSE 350 Index of Britain’s
biggest banks.  ‘Lower Number of Deals’  Unlike some other British banks, including Barclays Plc and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Standard Chartered has maintained its
profitability target even as regulators forced lenders to boost
capital reserves.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, said
pretax profit at its Barclays Capital investment banking unit
declined by a third after revenue from fixed income, currencies
and commodities trading fell in a “challenging” market.  Standard Chartered said market conditions “resulted in a
lower number of deals being closed,” in its corporate finance
unit. The bank’s commercial banking unit also experienced
further pressure on margins “as competition increases,”
Standard Chartered said. The bank’s overall margins were
“stable,” Meddings said.  In its wholesale banking business, Standard Chartered’s
own-account income in the first quarter had “double digit”
growth. Client income continued to contribute over 80 percent of
total wholesale banking income, it said.  ‘Significant Strides’  The bank hired 7,000 people last year, as expenses rose
faster than revenue. The bank has made “significant strides,”
in its plan to align cost growth with revenue growth, Meddings
has said. Costs are still ahead of revenue, the bank said.  “We estimate group cost growth of 11 percent versus
revenue growth of 10 percent,” wrote Cormac Leech, an analyst
at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in  London  in an e-mailed note to
investors today.  In March, the lender reported its seventh successive year
of record profit. Net income at Standard Chartered rose 28
percent to $4.33 billion.  The bank’s roots date back to British
colonial expansion in Africa and  India  in the 19th century. The
bank is 15.7 percent-owned by Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s
state investment company, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jon Menon in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  