-- 
Star Serves Frito Pie, $89 Steak, Murdered Veggies: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-05-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/star-brings-frito-pie-murdered-peas-89-ribeye-to-brooklyn-ryan-sutton.html
The jokey menu at The  Brooklyn  Star
reveals that its vegetables are “yanked from the earth with
extreme prejudice.”  All animals are humanely dispatched using a Tarantino-style
“five point exploding heart punch.” Corn chips are “sourced”
from the Frito factory in Plano,  Texas . And  Kool-Aid  is poured.  The food is a nod to owner Joaquin Baca’s Lone Star
heritage. The American Southwest by way of Williamsburg, the
Star is where tiny women eat brontosaurus-size beef ribs,
tattooed men don’t mind the country music playing and an Irish
bartender spikes your sweet tea with a splash of bourbon.  Credit Baca, an ex-partner in the Momofuku empire, as a
pioneer of  lardcore , the movement that matches comfort food (and
sometimes junk food) with the Blue Hill approach to seasonal,
sustainable, ZIP-codable everything. How else to describe a chef
who glazes  Niman Ranch  pork with Dr Pepper?  The original Star, with its tiny, elbow-banging booths,
burned down in 2010. The new version, at seven weeks old, is
bigger and with slightly more comfortable seating. But don’t
expect Baca to get all fancy.  Take the wine list: There aren’t any French sparklers. I
like to think that’s in deference to the “Champagne of Beers,”
 Miller High Life , which is available by the bottle.  Summer in Galveston  Or consider the oysters. They’re topped with barbecue sauce
-- not  KC Masterpiece . The Star uses a vinegary concoction that
softens the briny blow of Beau Soleil bivalves ($18 for a half-
dozen). Le Bernardin’s mignonette evokes the Cote d’Azur;
Brooklyn Star’s spicy riff tastes like summer in Galveston.  Wash it down with a Pimm’s Cup; co-owner Simon Gibson gives
the British libation (spiced gin, mixed fruit and lemon soda) an
American twist by subbing out a slim Collins tumbler for a
supersize glass.  Such a cavalier beach-chair state of affairs might be too
laid back for some, but quirky touches like these elevate the
Star from a neighborhood joint to an original worth the cab fare
from  Manhattan .  Is the mac & cheese ($9) a little mushy? Not a problem.
Just use the dorm-room approach to al dente: Let the dish cool
off for 10 minutes and watch it firm up. Each bite delivers a
bacon-cheddar rush. Tame the fatty flavors with  Frank’s  hot
sauce (same stuff they put on Buffalo wings).  Hot Sauce  In fact, thank Baca for arming every table with Frank’s.
The kitchen splashes the stuff over a great romaine salad with
bacon buttermilk dressing. Use a few dashes for crispy pig’s
tails, which taste like porky chicken wings.  Baca sometimes mimics the dubious (yet addictive) flavors
of drive-thru food instead of kowtowing to French technique.
That means no beurre noisette sweetbreads. The chef fries them
into little bites -- an offal analogue of KFC’s  popcorn chicken .
The soft, neutral meat is less important than the hominy
coating, which gives diners a shotgun blast of corn flavor.  Tex-Mex reaches its microwavable apex with Frito pie -- a
can of  Wolf Brand  chili poured into a bag of corn chips. The
Star goes for a bit more elegance, placing chips on the side and
spiking the chili with tripe.  Vegetables aren’t exactly vegetarian here. Brussels sprouts
are fried and tossed with country ham. Peas and carrots are
glazed in chicken stock, then mixed with heady lamb bacon and
duck fat breadcrumbs. Collard greens, braised in ham hocks, sit
below a grilled pork chop.  The “two man” ribeye at $89 has just as much saliva-
inducing depth of flavor as Minetta Tavern’s $118 version. But
the cold, rare interior couldn’t hide the sinewy fat. Try
chorizo-stuffed quail ($16) for a lighter meal; it’s paired with
a chili-lime spiked jicama slaw, a bright hat tip to  Mexico .  Finish with tapioca creme caramel, then hop on a stool by
the open windows and watch the B48 bus rumble to Greenpoint as
Hank Williams croons over the sound system. Sip on your
grapefruit and gin cocktail. It’s brown, because the bartender
adds a little  Dr Pepper  syrup.
Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes under $30.  Sound Level: Loud, about 75-80, sometimes higher.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside Tip: Solid blackened trout, shrimp & grits.  Special Feature: Skip wine for sub-$10 cocktails.  Will I be back: Yes.  The Brooklyn Star is at 593 Lorimer St., Brooklyn.
Information: +1-718-599-9899 or  http://thebrooklynstar.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 