-- 
Statoil Adjusted Profit Falls 1.7% as Oil Production Drops

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-05-04T06:56:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/statoil-adjusted-profit-falls-1-7-as-oil-production-drops-1-.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest oil and
natural gas company, said first-quarter adjusted profit
unexpectedly fell as safety issues hampered oil production.  Profit excluding a gain from selling a stake in a Canadian
oil sands project and other financial items, fell to 11.9
billion kroner ($2.25 billion) from 12.1 billion kroner a year
earlier, the Stavanger-based company said today. That missed
analysts’ estimates of 14.1 billion kroner.  Statoil’s crude and gas output fell 6 percent to 1.971
million barrels of oil equivalent a day. Production at the North
Sea Gullfaks oil and gas field was reduced after Statoil shut 50
wells out of safety concerns in the second half of 2010. Lower
permitted production starting last year at the Troll and Ormen
Lange gas fields also affected output.  The drop in production “was primarily caused by various
operational issues both in  Angola  and on the Norwegian
continental shelf, mainly related to the Gullfaks and Oseberg
fields,” the company said in a statement. “Natural decline on
mature fields, suspended production in  Libya  and decreased gas
nominations from the Shah Deniz field in  Azerbaijan  also added
to the reduction.”  Total production this year is expected to be “around the
2010 level, or slightly below,” Statoil said, reiterating its
outlook. The company said it expects 2012 output to grow about 3
percent on a compounded annual basis from 2010.  Net income rose to 16 billion kroner, or 5.02 kroner a
share, from 11.1 billion kroner, or 3.49 kroner, a year earlier.
Sales and other income rose 17 percent to 152 billion kroner
while adjusted earnings before tax rose 22 percent, the company
said.  Entitlement Beats  The company’s entitlement output fell to 1.765 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day from 1.915 million barrels a
year earlier. The company was estimated to produce 1.746 million
barrels in a survey of four analysts by Bloomberg.  “Production is better than expected both in  Norway  and
internationally, and the outlook is unchanged,” said Trond Omdal, an analyst at Arctic Securities in Oslo, in an e-mail.
“So they are delivering in the areas where they have
disappointed the markets in the past quarters.”  Energy producers were helped in the quarter in part as
unrest in North Africa and the Middle East pushed benchmark
 Brent crude  36 percent higher, on average. Exxon Mobil Corp.
last week posted its biggest first-quarter profit gain in eight
years, while Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s earnings rose 30 percent.  Statoil’s average sale price for oil rose 23 percent to
$100 a barrel. It got 1.97 kroner a cubic meter of gas, compared
with 1.64 kroner a cubic meter a year earlier. About two-thirds
of gas sold in mainland  Europe  is linked to the cost of crude
and oil products and is sold under multiyear contracts.  ‘Strong Momentum’  “With 60 percent of Statoil’s gas production being linked
to long-term oil indexed contracts combined with strong European
spot gas market, we expect to see strong momentum in Statoil’s
realized gas prices going forward,” Helge Andre Martinsen, an
analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said in an April 28 report.  The company, which has operating rights on about 80 percent
of Norway’s production, is seeking to maintain domestic output
and is expanding in countries such as Angola,  Brazil  and the
U.S. as Norwegian reserves dwindle. Norway’s output peaked in
2000 and is forecast to drop 6 percent this year to about 1.7
million barrels a day, according to the  Norwegian Petroleum
Directorate ’s estimates.  “After several quarters with weak production growth, we
expect Statoil to re-enter the growth path in the second half of
2011,” Martinsen said. “This is thanks to major projects,
primarily internationally, commencing production. Statoil will
fire on all engines in 2012 and we expect production growth of 6
percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  