-- 
Appeal to Revive Obama’s Health Care Act Should Be Rejected, States Argue

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-04T21:33:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/states-ask-appeals-court-to-find-health-law-invalid-over-insurance-mandate.html
Twenty-six states opposing President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care reform act asked an appeals court to
uphold a lower-court ruling striking down the law after a judge
found its insurance-buying mandate is unconstitutional.  The states, in a brief filed today with the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Atlanta, oppose the Obama administration’s request to
overturn the Jan. 31 decision to invalidate the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act.  U.S. District Judge C. Roger Vinson in  Pensacola ,  Florida ,
ruled Congress exceeded its constitutional authority when, as
part of the  act , it required almost all Americans over age 18 to
obtain insurance coverage starting in 2014.  “The act imposes a direct mandate upon individuals to
obtain health insurance, marking by all accounts the first time
in our nation‘s history that Congress has required individuals
to enter into commerce as a condition of living in the  United
States ,” the states said in today’s filing.  Led by Florida, 13 states sued March 23, 2010, the same day
Obama signed the legislation intended to create near-universal
U.S. health care coverage.  Seven states joined the suit last year, and six this year.
Virginia sued separately on March 23 and Oklahoma filed its own
suit on Jan. 21.  Coverage, Costs  The health-care law bars insurers from denying coverage to
people who are sick and from imposing lifetime limits on costs.
It also includes pilot projects to test ideas including
incentives for better results and bundled payments to medical
teams for patient care.  The individual insurance mandate, combined with expansion
of Medicaid and employer-based coverage, would extend health
coverage to 32 million people by 2019, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Mandatory coverage, which the U.S. has called the linchpin
of the plan, would start in 2014.  “The minimum coverage provision is a valid exercise of
Congress’s commerce power,” the federal government argued in
its appellate brief filed April 1.  A three-judge panel of the court is scheduled to hear
arguments on the appeal on June 8.  Today’s filing appeared on the court docket. A copy of the
brief, which wasn’t immediately available from the court, was
provided by  Paul Clement , a lawyer for the states.  The case is State of Florida v.  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services, 11-11021, U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  