-- 
Sub-Saharan African Stocks: New Mauritius Hotels, Sameer, UBA Are Active

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y ,   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-05-04T16:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/sub-saharan-african-stocks-new-mauritius-hotels-sameer-wema-bank-move.html
Mauritius’s SEMDEX Index retreated the
most since March 18, losing 0.3 percent to 2,059.78 by the 1:30
p.m. close in  Port Louis .  The Ghana Stock Exchange Composite Index increased for a
seventh day, surging 2.2 percent to 1,139.50 by the 3 p.m. close
in Accra. The Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index slipped
0.1 percent to 25,072.92 by the 2:30 p.m. close in Lagos,
according to an e-mailed statement from the bourse. Kenya’s All-
Share Index gained for a third day, adding 0.7 percent to 76 by
the 3 p.m. close in Nairobi.  The following shares rose or fell in sub-Saharan  Africa ,
excluding  South Africa . Stock symbols are in parentheses.  New Mauritius Hotels Ltd. (NMH)  , the country’s largest
leisure operator by market value, fell to a seven-month low,
losing 1 rupee, or 1 percent, to 102 rupees on concern the April
29 terrorist attack in  Morocco  will curb returns from its
project in the north African nation, Imrith Ramtohul, a senior
investment manager overseeing a 6 billion-rupee ($218.3 million)
portfolio at Mauritius Union Assurance Co., said by phone from
Port Louis.  NMH’s Moroccan project includes a 150-room hotel and 80
villas, according to its annual report. The hotel, golf course
and the first phase of the villas are expected to be completed
in 2013, it said on April 18, after it bought back the 50
percent that it didn’t already own in Domaine Palm Marrakech,
which is developing the property side of the project.  Sameer Africa Ltd. (SAME)  , a Kenyan tiremaker, rose to
the highest in almost three months, surging 15 cents, or 2.3
percent, to 6.6 shillings after Business Daily reported it plans
to boost revenue with price increases and cut operating costs
this year to boost returns.  The company, which sells tires in 10 African nations, will
consolidate its distribution centers to reduce expenses, Chief
Executive Officer Michael Karanja told the newspaper. Sameer
also plans to increase its retail prices to offset the rising
costs of inputs such as synthetic and natural rubbers as well as
crude, the Nairobi-based newspaper reported yesterday.  United Bank for Africa Plc (UBA)  , a Nigerian
lender, rose the most in more than a month, climbing 29 kobo, or
the maximum daily limit of 5 percent, to 6.14 naira. UBA, as the
lender is known, is currently trading at a price-to-book value
of 0.98, according to Bloomberg data, “which is cheaper than all
the other tier-one banks,” Adesoji Solanke, a Lagos-based
banking analyst with  Renaissance Capital , said by phone today.
“It is not unusual to see investors who view it as
offering attractive valuations,” Solanke said.  Other so-called first-tier lenders are Zenith Bank Plc, the
country’s biggest by market value, which has a price-to-book
value of 1.38 and Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, the second-largest,
which trades at 2.36 times its book value, while First Bank of
Nigeria Plc, the third-biggest, is at 1.28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net ;
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis via Johannesburg at 
1914 or  kbhuckory@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  