-- 
Sundaram’s Rajesh Says India Rates Increases to Hurt Growth

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-05-04T09:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/sundaram-s-rajesh-says-india-rates-increases-to-hurt-growth.html
Srividhya Rajesh, a  fund manager  at
Sundaram Mutual, comments on the outlook for Indian stocks.
Chennai-based Sundaram manages $3.3 billion in assets. She spoke
in an interview in Mumbai today.  The  Reserve Bank  of India increased the benchmark
repurchase rate by half a percentage point to 7.25 percent
yesterday, the biggest move since July 2008, and Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao forecast the economy may grow about 8 percent
in the year through March from 8.6 percent in the previous year.  On rate increase:  “We have seen a series of rate hikes and the impact of
that will start hurting growth. The  Reserve Bank of India  had
refrained from doing this in the past as they did not want to
hurt growth. Given the global uncertainties, growth was a
priority. We did not expect this kind of prolonged phase of high
inflation. To that extent everyone has been surprised. The
underlying growth momentum is still fine; it’s just that the
near-term pressures are all staring at us at the same time.”  On inflation:  “Inflation should start trending down because a 50 basis
point increase in rates is a pretty strong measure. Inflation
should start cooling off in the next three to six months. If
that happens, it will be a positive signal for the markets.”  On corporate earnings:  “Margins will be under pressure. In the near term there
will be earnings downgrades. For the year ending in March 2012
we will see 17 percent to 18 percent earnings growth compared
with the 20 percent to 22 percent estimated earlier.”  On investment strategy:  “We will have a relook at the consumer shares in our
portfolio after three to six months. It will depend on
inflation, government policy action, monsoon and the rural
economic growth.”  Shares of lenders, fast-moving  consumer goods , automakers
and telecom companies form the biggest part of Rajesh’s
portfolio. She declined to comment on specific shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  