-- 
Swisscom Posts 19% Jump in Quarterly Profit on Year-Earlier FastWeb Costs

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-05-04T11:08:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/swisscom-posts-19-jump-in-quarterly-profit-on-year-earlier-fastweb-costs.html
Swisscom AG (SCMN) , the phone company that
owns  Fastweb SpA (FWB) , reported a 3.1 percent drop in revenue,
dragged down by the Italian fixed-line unit, and said a
turnaround of the division will help restore growth in 2012.  First-quarter sales fell to 2.86 billion francs ($3.3
billion), the Bern-based company said today. Analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg had estimated revenue of 2.89 billion francs.
Fastweb sales slumped 16 percent to 562 million francs.  Swisscom, which bought Fastweb in 2007 to offset slowing
growth in the Swiss market, has failed to benefit from the
acquisition. The company has been hurt by a legal probe into
alleged value-added-tax fraud and money laundering at the
Italian unit. Swisscom posted a drop in 2010 earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization because of a 102
million-franc provision for Fastweb.  “Fastweb was weaker than expected in local sales even as
the Swiss business was partially able to compensate,” said
Serge Rotzer, an analyst at Bank Vontobel.  The drop at Fastweb was led by lower revenue from
residential customers, which fell 14 percent to 191 million
euros ($284 million), Swisscom said. The stronger franc against
the euro also sapped the value of revenue when translated into
the Swiss currency.  The residential customer offer was streamlined, stopping
“a number of product lines that were generating significant bad
debts including PC sales, TV sales and phones,” Chief Executive
Officer Carsten Schloter said on a conference call.  Second Half  “We expect improvements in the second half on all three
metrics” of revenue, cash and Ebitda, Scholter said about
Fastweb. “We put in place much stricter rules for credit
checking, which means we refused a lot more customers.”  Swisscom was little changed at 396.8 francs as of 1 p.m. in
Zurich. The stock has gained about 10 percent in the past year,
giving the company a market value of 20.6 billion francs.
Swisscom bought out a remaining stake in Fastweb this year and
delisted the company in March.  In January, Fastweb and News Corp.’s satellite-broadcasting
unit Sky Italia signed an agreement to jointly offer bundled
television and broadband services.  Swisscom projected “a transitional year” in 2011. It
reiterated today that revenue will be at least 11.8 billion
francs, compared with 12 billion francs last year. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization are
forecast at more than 4.6 billion francs. The outlook is based
on exchange rate of 1.30 francs to the euro for the conversion
of Fastweb’s results.  The company said if all targets are met, it will propose a
minimum dividend of 21 francs per share for the 2011.  First-quarter net income rose to 469 million francs from
394 million francs a year earlier and Ebitda climbed 6.4 percent
to 1.13 billion francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  