-- 
Switzerland’s Franc Rises to Record Versus Dollar on Rate, Stock Outlook

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-05-04T15:04:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/switzerland-s-franc-rises-to-record-versus-dollar-on-rate-stock-outlook.html
Switzerland ’s franc jumped to a record
against the dollar as stock markets fell, boosting demand for
the safest assets.  The Swiss currency has gained against the dollar on each of
the past 11 days amid speculation the country’s central bank may
raise interest rates. European stocks fell for a second day as
traders added to bets the  European Central Bank  will signal
further rate increases after its policy makers meet tomorrow.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 declined in the U.S.  “There is still a lot of uncertainty as far as the
international credit crisis is concerned, and the Swiss franc is
a safe-haven currency and enjoys a premium in times of
heightened stress,” said Thorsten Polleit, an economist at
 Barclays Capital  in Frankfurt. “There’s also been some talk
that the central bank may raise rates, and that’s another
factor.”  The franc appreciated as much as 0.6 percent against the
dollar to reach a record 85.54 centimes per dollar, before
trading at 85.86 centimes as of 3:55 p.m. in  London . Against the
euro it was little changed at 1.27713 per euro. It was stronger
against 14 of its 16 major peers.  Europe’s Stoxx 600 Index slid 1.2 percent after declining
0.5 percent yesterday. The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of twenty actively
traded companies fell 0.6 percent, after dropping 0.5 percent
yesterday.  Switzerland’s central bank will have to raise interest
rates at some point to maintain  price stability  as the current
level is “extremely accommodative,” Swiss National Bank Vice
President Thomas Jordan told Finanz und Wirtschaft on March 29.  The central bank will take its next monetary policy
decision on June 16. The SNB kept its benchmark interest rate
near zero at its last meeting on March 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 