-- 
Syria’s al-Assad Must Quit, Says Possible 2012 Candidate Daniels

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-05-04T21:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/syria-s-al-assad-must-quit-says-possible-2012-candidate-daniels.html
Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels, a
potential 2012 Republican U.S. presidential candidate, today
called on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to resign.  “I am really proud of my grandparents, my dad, and the
Syrian heritage I have, but I am not the least bit proud of the
government  Syria ’s had during most of my lifetime,” said
Daniels, who is of Syrian ancestry, on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with Al Hunt,” airing this weekend.  Syria has sent troops to suppress nationwide
demonstrations, inspired by popular revolts in Egypt and
Tunisia, that pose a serious challenge to Al-Assad’s 11-year
rule. More than 500 protesters have been killed in the
crackdown, with 1,000 arrests in the last two days alone.  Daniels, 62, said he was “inspired” by the protesters who
are taking “life-or-death risks to ask for some greater
freedom.”  On domestic issues, the two-term governor and former budget
director for President  George W. Bush  said he opposed raising
tax rates as part of a vote to increase the country’s debt
ceiling.  “Tax rate increases, I think, are a mistaken idea,” he
said. Still, he said, “We ought to have more tax revenues and
the way economists, really, of both sides seem to agree is,
fewer preferences, lower and flatter rates.”  Many Democrats, including House and Senate party leaders,
are demanding that increasing revenue be a part of an agreement
to curb the debt. Any agreement, said Daniels, should focus on
eliminating tax breaks while lowering overall corporate and
individual rates.  ‘New Red Menace’  The debate over the $14.3 trillion national debt, which
Daniels has called the “new red menace,” has raised his
political profile and increased questions about whether he will
seek his party’s presidential nomination.  Daniels offered few clues in remarks earlier today in
 Washington , noting that there’s still time for candidates to
join the race.  “I really thought it might become too late somewhere along
the line,” Daniels said in a policy address at the American
Enterprise Institute, a group that favors smaller government,
“but for whatever reason it appears not to be, and I think it’s
a happy surprise.”  Daniels praised the slow pace of the Republican nomination
contest. “It’s a darn good thing that we’ll have nomination
campaign measured in months not years,” he said.  Education Plan  His luncheon speech largely focused on education policy,
giving a preview of the type of kindergarten through 12th grade
plan he would support as a candidate.  Daniels promoted new laws passed by his state legislature
last week that limit collective bargaining for teachers, expand
the state’s school voucher program, make it easier to open new
 charter schools , and permit the state to take over and privatize
management of public schools.  As he left the speech, Daniels said he would decide whether
to run for president within weeks. “It won’t take long,” he
said.  National polls of Republican-leaning voters have shown
Daniels barely registering as a presidential candidate,
typically receiving 3 or fewer percentage points of support.  None of the potential Republican candidates break the 20-
percent mark, according to a new  poll  released today by
Quinnipiac University.  Pawlenty, Romney, Santorum  Two former Republican governors,  Tim Pawlenty  of Minnesota
and Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, and former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, have filed paperwork with the Federal
Election Commission to raise money for potential runs. Texas
Congressman  Ron Paul , in his third potential White House bid,
has also announced an exploratory committee.  Former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who stepped down as U.S.
ambassador to China at the end of April, moved toward entering
the race yesterday when he formed a political action committee.  Other potential candidates include former Arkansas Governor
 Mike Huckabee , former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, and former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of Georgia.  The lack of a clear Republican frontrunner has encouraged
others, including Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota ,
a Tea Party favorite, and real estate developer  Donald Trump  to
position themselves for potential runs.  As the Republican race gears up, Obama has opened a 2012
re-election campaign headquarters in Chicago and raised millions
of dollars last month at events in Illinois, California and  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 