-- 
Syria Adopts Banking Incentives Dismissed by Activists

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-05-04T19:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/syria-adopts-banking-incentives-dismissed-by-activists-2-.html
Syria  lowered banks’ required reserves
to help spur the economy as part of its effort to contain
protests that activists say have reached a “point of no
return.”  “These measures are part of the repression campaign, as
they are just words serving to contain the anger of the
people,” Bourhan Ghalioun, director of the Center for
Contemporary Oriental Studies at the Sorbonne in Paris, said in
a telephone interview. “The protest will continue no matter
what. They have reached a point of no return,” he said.  Syria has sent troops to quell demonstrations, inspired by
popular revolts in Egypt and  Tunisia , that have spread across
the country and posed the most serious challenge to the 11-year
rule of President Bashar Al-Assad. In response, Assad has ended
an emergency rule that was in place from 1963 and pledged future
political and economic reforms that have failed to halt the
spread of demonstrations.  The central bank raised the rate banks pay for deposits by
2 percentage points and lowered the minimum reserve requirement
for banks to 5 percent from 10 percent, the state-run Syrian
Arab News Agency reported today. The bank eliminated some
 reserve requirements  for funds intended for investment in
industries such as tourism and small and medium-sized companies.  The decision “aims at supporting liquidity in the banking
sector, encouraging savings, boosting the confidence of Syrian
citizens in the Syrian pound and guaranteeing the value of their
savings while creating a solid base of savings that helps in
investing and funding development,” it said.  Economic Plight  “The measures reflect the seriousness of the economic
situation, but they are also consistent with the regime’s
efforts to manage its way through the crisis, with a combination
of severe security crackdowns, political reforms and economic
interventions,” David Butter, Middle East regional director for
the Economist Intelligence Unit, said in e-mailed comments.  Dozens of tanks and personnel carriers were seen heading to
the suburbs of the central city of Homs, Al Arabiya television
said. More than 30 army personnel carriers, packed with soldiers
and weapons, were also moving on the highway from Damascus to
Daraa, the southern city where protests first erupted in Syria,
according to the “Syrian Revolution 2011” Facebook page.  UN Pressure  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon telephoned
Assad today to press for an “immediate end to violence against
and mass arrests of peaceful demonstrators in Syria, and for an
independent investigation of all killings that happened during
the protests, including the alleged killing of military and
security officers,” the UN said in a statement.  Ban told Assad he should implement “all the reform
measures announced by the Syrian Government, and emphasized the
importance” of a “genuine inclusive dialogue and a
comprehensive reform process,” the statement said. He expressed
“deep concern at the humanitarian implications of the latest
developments in a number of Syrian towns” and sought UN access
“in order to assess the humanitarian needs of the affected
civilian population.”  Assad indicated “willingness to consider such an
assessment to Daraa,” the UN said.  A demonstration was under way at the Faculty of Economics
at Damascus University today, activist Razan Zaitouneh said on
her Facebook page. Zaitouneh published a statement issued by
Damascus University students that denounced the “massacres,
killings and detention of peaceful protesters in Syria.”  Student Demands  The students called for the lifting of the army siege on
Daraa and other cities and for the protection of their right for
peaceful demonstrations.  A total of 553 civilians and 105 army and security
personnel have been killed since March 18, the Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights said on its  website  today. Hundreds
of people have been detained and referred to courts on charges
of “harming the prestige of the state and inciting riots,” it
said.  “There are more than 1,000 people detained since Friday,
and some are dying under torture,” Ghalioun said. “We have
information that Syrian authorities are going after a list of
5,000 people, but they will not succeed to quell the protests
because the more they choose repression, the more there will be
anger and revolt,” he said.  The U.S., the European Union and the United Nations Human
Rights Council took actions April 29 against Assad’s government.
President  Barack Obama  ordered a freeze on U.S. assets and other
sanctions against three Syrian officials and agencies taking
part in the government crackdown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  