-- 
U.K. House Prices Fell for the First Time in Three Months, Nationwide Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-04T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/u-k-house-prices-fell-in-april-for-first-time-in-three-months.html
U.K.  house prices  fell in April for
the first time in three months and values will probably remain
unchanged or decline “modestly” during the rest of this year,
 Nationwide Building Society  said.  The average cost of a home declined 0.2 percent from March
to 165,609 pounds ($273,800), Britain’s biggest customer-owned
lender said in an e-mailed report today. That’s the first
decrease since January and compares with the median forecast for
a 0.1 percent increase in a Bloomberg News survey of 14
economists. Prices fell 1.3 percent on the year.  Recent U.K. housing-market data have been mixed as a lack
of supply of properties for sale and record-low  Bank of England 
interest rates prop up values, while restricted mortgage lending
and government spending cuts deter buyers. Britain’s economy
grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter, barely enough to erase
the snow-induced slump in the last three months of 2010.  “A strong rebound in the housing market remains unlikely
as the recovery is still expected to remain modest by historic
standards,”  Robert Gardner , chief economist at Swindon,
England-based Nationwide, said in the report. “The most likely
outcome is that house prices will continue to move sideways or
drift modestly lower through 2011.”  House prices stopped falling in April for the first time in
10 months as demand for homes picked up, Hometrack Ltd. said on
May 2. Rightmove Plc said on April 27 that only one in four
Britons in a survey conducted last month forecast a fall in
house prices over the next 12 months, compared with one in three
a quarter earlier.  “There is still little evidence to suggest that price
declines will accelerate in the months ahead,” Gardner said.
“Together with continued low  interest rates , a gradual
improvement in the labor market should help to provide support
for housing demand, while limiting the number of forced sales.”  Mortgage approvals to buy homes probably increased in March
to 48,000 from 46,967 in February, according to the median
forecast of 11 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The Bank
of England will release the data today at 9:30 a.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  