-- 
U.K. House Prices May Drop as Much as 20% Over Next Five Years, Niesr Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-05T13:12:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/u-k-house-prices-may-drop-as-much-as-20-over-next-five-years-niesr-says.html
U.K.  house prices  adjusted for
inflation may drop as much as 20 percent in the next five years
as the Bank of  England  raises interest rates and regulators
toughen lending rules, the National Institute for Economic and
Social Research said.  “The prospects for the housing market are very weak indeed
over the next five years,” Ray Barrell, director of
macroeconomic research and forecasting at Niesr, said at a press
briefing in London yesterday. “That will significantly weaken
the U.K.’s growth rate.”  While the  property market  recovered last year from its
slump, recent housing data have signalled weakness as government
spending cuts undermine  consumer confidence  and banks continue
to rebuild balance sheets. Barrell estimates that with interest
rates forecast to increase, real house prices are overvalued by
10 percent and that the combined effect of new mortgage and
banking rules proposed by British and international regulators
may push prices down by a further 10 percent.  Niesr, whose clients include the U.K. Treasury and the  Bank
of England , sees policy makers increasing the benchmark interest
rate at a slower pace this year than previously forecast. It
forecasts quarter-point moves in September and December to bring
the key rate to 1 percent by the end of 2011, compared with a
January expectation of three moves to 1.25 percent. The central
bank left the key rate at a record low of 0.5 percent today, as
forecast by all 43 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Inflation Outlook  Niesr increased its 2011 inflation forecast to 4.5 percent
from 3.8 percent in January, and lowered its growth projection
to 1.4 percent from 1.5 percent. The group, which published its
quarterly economic review today, sees inflation slowing to 1.9
percent in 2012 as the government’s fiscal tightening weighs on
the economy.  Britain’s economy grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter,
barely enough to erase the snow-induced slump in the last three
months of 2010.  “The underlying picture for the last six months for the
U.K. has been rather poor,”  Simon Kirby , a research fellow at
Niesr, said at the press briefing. While “we do see some
acceleration into 2012 and into 2013,” it is “weak growth.”  Niesr forecasts weaker-than-planned tax revenue, making it
harder to reduce the  budget deficit . The shortfall will narrow
to 3.6 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year
through March 2016, instead of the 1.5 percent expected by the
government, and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will
fail to balance the cyclically adjusted budget, the group said.  Housing Weakness  Niesr’s house-price forecast adds to other signs of
weakness. U.K. home values fell in April for the first time in
three months,  Nationwide Building Society  said yesterday.
Property prices may be “flat” for as long as six years as
first-time buyers struggle to afford a mortgage, Citigroup Inc.
said last month.  Barrell cited proposed regulation by the U.K. Financial
Services Authority to reduce the maximum loan-to-income ratio on
mortgages in his forecast. Proposals by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  and the U.K.’s  Independent Commission on
Banking  may also boost borrowing costs and further curtail
lending, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  