-- 
U.K. Bonds Rise; Two-Year Yield Drops Below 1% on Bets BOE to Hold Rates

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-05-04T15:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/u-k-bonds-rise-2-year-yield-drops-below-1-for-first-time-since-december.html
U.K. government bonds rose and the
pound fell to the lowest in more than a year versus the euro
after worsening economic data spurred speculation the  Bank of
England  will keep rates at a record low to revive growth.  Yields on two-year notes slipped below 1 percent for the
first time in five months while the pound traded weaker than 90
pence per euro for a second straight day.  House prices  declined
for the first time in three months while a gauge of construction
growth unexpectedly dropped to a four-month low.  “Gilts still offer reasonable value over the medium
term,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in London. “Any rate move is likely to be after
the summer rather than before -- you’re still looking at a
fairly fragile economy.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell four basis points to
3.38 percent as of 4:27 p.m. in  London , the least since Dec. 6.
Two-year notes due March 2013 yielded 1.02 percent after sliding
below 1 percent for the first time since Dec. 8.  The pound depreciated as much as 0.4 percent to 90.29 pence
per euro, its weakest level since March 29, 2010, before trading
at 89.91. Sterling climbed 0.3 percent to $1.6530.  Worsening economic data may ease pressure on the Bank of
England to raise rates to curb inflation, which has soared to
more than twice the central bank’s 2 percent target. Policy
makers will keep the key rate at 0.5 percent when they announce
their next decision tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Home Prices  The average cost of a British home dropped 0.2 percent from
March to 165,609 pounds ($273,000),  Nationwide Building Society 
said, compared with a gain of 0.1 percent forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 14 economists. That’s the first decrease
since January.  A gauge of building activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers fell to 53.3 in April, from 56.4 the
previous month, Markit Economics Ltd. and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said. That was below the 55.9
estimate in a Bloomberg survey and the lowest since December.  “Rate hike expectations are being pushed back,” said
 Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at Schneider Foreign
Exchange in London. “That’s weighing on sterling.”  S&P dissented from that view today, saying it expects rates
to rise within three months as inflation resumes its surge. U.K.
inflation unexpectedly eased to 4 percent in March after five
months of acceleration brought the rate to 4.4 percent in
February. That level was the highest in more than two years and
more than twice the central bank’s 2 percent limit.  Inflation Peak  “A first rate hike seems almost certain in the coming
three months,” S&P’s chief economist for  Europe , Jean-Michel Six, said in today’s report. “After the March blip, we think
inflation is likely to take off once again, to peak around 5
percent in the third quarter.”  Short-sterling futures fell, lifting the implied yield on
the contract expiring March 2012 by one basis point to 1.26
percent, as investors added to bets for interest-rate increases
next year.  The U.K.’s benchmark rate compares with 1.25 percent in the
euro region, boosting the yield allure of the shared European
currency against its British counterpart. The  European Central
Bank  raised its main rate by a quarter point last month and left
the door open for further increases to curb inflation, which is
accelerating at the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years.  Rate Prospects  “Rates will probably go up towards the end of the year but
they aren’t going to go up to anywhere near historical averages
for a while,” said Afseth. “There might be some short-term
volatility in yields once rate hikes begin, but there’s no
reason for them to move up too quickly just yet.”  The ECB is expected to leave the rate unchanged when it
meets tomorrow according to all 48 analysts polled by Bloomberg.  A measure of the pound against its nine most traded peers
fell to 60.70 as measured by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. That’s near the 60.63 level reached yesterday,
which was the lowest since records began in 1975.  Separate data this morning showed U.K. mortgage approvals
were little changed in March as a squeeze on incomes weighed on
the housing market. Lenders granted 47,557 home loans, up from a
revised 46,708 in February, the Bank of England said. The median
forecast of 11 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for an
increase to 48,000 from an initially reported 47,000. Net
mortgage lending rose 400 million pounds in March, half the
average over the previous six months.  “Continually disappointing U.K. data will create more
sympathy amongst monetary policy committee members to keep rates
lower for longer to help the economy,” said  Neil Jones , head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  