-- 
U.K. Urged to Abolish Renewable Goals, Spend Less to Cut CO2

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-05-05T16:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/u-k-urged-to-abolish-renewable-goals-spend-less-to-cut-carbon.html
Britain should abolish its renewable
energy targets and focus on less costly ways to cut carbon-
dioxide emissions, according to researchers at Policy Exchange.  Britain could save 12.5 billion pounds ($20.6 billion) by
scaling back ambitious wind projects around its coastline, the
London-based research group said in an e-mailed  report  today.
The U.K. should “renegotiate its commitment” to the European
Union renewable target, the report said.  “The target diverts current and future resources away from
measures that could save the same amount of carbon at a lower
cost, such as  energy efficiency , nuclear and carbon-capture and
storage,” Simon Moore, a research fellow and author of the
report said. “The U.K.’s commitment to meeting the EU’s
renewable energy target is actually damaging the goal of global
carbon reduction.” Moore formerly worked for the U.K.
government’s Treasury department.  The European Union has a target of getting 20 percent of
energy from renewable sources by 2020. That means the U.K. would
need to raise its own renewable sources of power to about 30
percent. That target would cost the U.K. 66 billion pounds, the
report said. Renewable power accounted for 6.6 percent of
generation last year, government figures show.  If the U.K. is unable to back out of the commitments, it
should make it easier to build wind farms, burn biomass in power
stations and help spur energy efficient projects, the report
said. The country should also buy renewable energy from
countries that can produce it more cheaply, the report said.  The Renewable Energy Association, a London-based lobby
group, said the report was “seriously misguided.”  “Renewables are needed for  energy security , to boost and
rebalance the U.K. economy, as well as definitely cut carbon,”
the association said in an e-mailed statement. “The Policy
Exchange’s call to abolish the renewable energy target is,
frankly, dangerous and will drag us to into the dark ages.”  The  Policy Exchange , funded by charitable donations, was
established in 2002. The group has “center right values” and
favors free market and local solutions, according to its
website.  Policy Exchange published a paper last year to demonstrate
how a carbon floor price might work. The U.K. government has
since set what it calls a carbon floor in its budget last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  