-- 
U.K. Tax to Increase Reliance on Fuel Imports, Executives Say

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-05-04T16:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/u-k-tax-to-increase-reliance-on-fuel-imports-executives-say.html
U.K. oil and natural gas producers
will cut back exploration in the  North Sea  with the adoption of
a proposed tax on drilling, leaving the country more reliant on
foreign fuel imports, industry executives said today.  “The tax change has really thrown us off course,” Paul Warwick, ConocoPhillips’ U.K. natural gas production unit
president, said in a parliamentary hearing today. “The
challenge of delivering gas was difficult enough.”  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised
taxes on North Sea oil production profits in March to 62 percent
from 50 percent. The increase is intended to pay for a  tax cut 
on gasoline for consumers. The chancellor also threatened to
trim tax relief for dismantling operations, known as
decommissioning.  Companies including  Centrica Plc (CNA) , BP Plc and ConocoPhillips
have seen the value of fields on the U.K. continental shelf drop
on the threat of higher levies. The sale of fields has already
been hampered by the cost of dismantling decades-old platforms,
according to analysts and executives.  “We drill a lot of exploration wells that don’t find
anything,” Warwick said. “As we go out and try to find new gas
we have to have the attraction of the returns to do that.”  An increase in taxes announced in the budget on March 23
means U.K. oil- and gas-producing fields are now subject to some
of the highest levels of tax in the world, Centrica said in a
May 1 statement. The U.K.’s biggest gas provider said it is
considering extending the closure of production facilities at
its South Morecambe gas field because of the tax increase.  “The U.K. is an extremely attractive environment,” U.K.
Energy Minister  Chris Huhne  said at the hearing. The government
is open to changing policy should  oil prices  drop substantially,
he added. “We’ve made the point that when circumstances change,
people are allowed to change their mind,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  