-- 
U.K. Mortgage Approvals Little Changed in March, BOE Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-04T08:44:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/u-k-mortgage-approvals-were-little-changed-in-march-correct-.html
U.K. mortgage approvals were little
changed in March as a squeeze on consumers’ incomes weighed on
the recovery in the housing market.  Lenders granted 47,557 home loans, up from a revised 46,708
in February, the  Bank of England  said today in London. The
median forecast of 11 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for an increase to 48,000 from an initially reported 47,000. Net
mortgage lending rose 400 million pounds ($660 million) in
March, half the average over the previous six months.  U.K. house-price data have been mixed in recent months.
 Nationwide Building Society  said today values dropped 0.2
percent in April, while Hometrack Ltd. reported two days ago
that 10 months of price declines had stalled. The central bank
may hold its key interest rate at a record low tomorrow as
policy makers set aside concerns about inflation to nurture the
economic recovery through the government’s fiscal squeeze.  “The housing reports today are very soft and approvals are
still down from the peak of the boom,” said  George Buckley , an
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “The data support the
central bank doing nothing tomorrow on policy.”  Today’s Bank of England figures show gross mortgage lending
was 11.1 billion pounds in March. Net  consumer credit  rose 0.1
billion pounds, less than the 0.8 billion-pound increase
recorded in February. Borrowing on credit cards rose 0.2 billion
pounds, while there was a 0.1 billion-pound decline in other
consumer loans.  House Prices  A separate report today showed that construction growth
slowed in April from the previous month. The pound erased its
gain against the dollar after the data. It traded at $1.6479 as
of 9:41 a.m. in London, little changed on the day.  Nationwide said today home prices fell to an average
165,609 pounds in April, and values are down 1.3 percent from a
year earlier. Chief Economist  Robert Gardner  said he saw
“little evidence” declines will worsen as the economic
recovery gathers pace.  Hometrack, a London-based property researcher, said May 2
prices were unchanged in April from the previous month, though
the number of prospective buyers registering with realtors has
risen 22 percent this year, a sign of improving demand.  Still, property prices may be “flat” for as many as six
years as first-time buyers struggle to afford a mortgage,
Citigroup Inc. economists  Michael Saunders  and Ann O’Kelly said
last month.  Inflation Squeeze  Britons’ spending power is getting squeezed by inflation
that’s double the Bank of England’s 2 percent target at a time
when Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has vowed to
stick to his plan to eliminate the bulk of the record budget
deficit by April 2015. The government chopped spending by 6
billion pounds in the year to March and will cut 310,000 public-
sector jobs.  A measure of M4 money-supply growth that the central bank
uses to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases was 1
percent on an annualized basis in the three months through
March. The gauge excludes financial companies that specialize in
intermediating between banks, such as holding companies and non-
bank credit grantors.  Total M4 rose 0.1 percent in March from February and was
down 1.1 percent on the year.  The central bank will hold the key rate at 0.5 percent
tomorrow, according to 42 of 43 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Officials will also hold their bond plan at 200 billion
pounds, according to all 29 economists in a separate poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  