-- 
U.S. House Republicans Advance Bill to Reshape Consumer Bureau

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-05-04T19:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/u-s-house-republicans-advance-bill-to-reshape-consumer-bureau.html
U.S.  House Republicans , who almost
unanimously opposed the creation of the  Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau , took the first steps to reshape the agency
being created under the Dodd-Frank Act.  A House Financial Services subcommittee, voting along party
lines, approved three  bills  designed to restrict powers granted
to the agency and its director under the financial-regulation
law approved last year by a Democrat-led Congress.  “Some have characterized these measures as an attack on
the CFPB, but I couldn’t disagree more,” said Representative
Shelley Moore Capito, the West Virginia Republican who leads the
Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit subcommittee. “These
three bills are an effort to make sure that Congress is doing
its job and there is a watchdog for the watchdog.”  The subcommittee approval marks the first legislative
action in a fight between the Republican members of the full
committee and  Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration adviser
assigned to prepare the agency to begin operations on July 21.
Warren, a Harvard Law professor credited with conceiving the
consumer bureau, has clashed with Republicans over the agency’s
powers as well as her own authority as a presidential adviser.  The three bills would replace the director envisioned by
Dodd-Frank with a five-member bipartisan commission, give a
council of regulators more power to veto bureau rulemaking and
delay the transfer of the agency’s powers until a director is
nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate.  While the bills have support in the Republican-controlled
House, they are unlikely to win needed support from Obama and
the Democrats who control the Senate.  Crippling Dodd-Frank  Democrats on the House panel and consumer advocacy groups
have backed Warren, noting that the bills -- and others like
them -- are aimed at crippling Dodd-Frank.  “The real reason for the bills is to delay, distract and
weaken the CFPB before it even goes into effect on July 21,”
Representative Carolyn Maloney, a New York Democrat, said today.  Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus , the
Alabama Republican who sponsored the bill to install a
commission, said the proposal is similar to what the House
agreed to during debate over what became Dodd-Frank. The single
director was approved in final negotiations.  Attacks on the Republican proposals are “both unfounded
and unfair,” The current structure of the CFPB -- with a
director appointed by the president confirmed by the Senate --
is “radical” in comparison to similar agencies, he said.  The subcommittee approved the bill 13-7.  Center of Debate  Warren, who didn’t attend today’s meeting, was nevertheless
at the center of discord between Republicans and Democrats.  “This whole debate is clearly about Elizabeth Warren, so
let’s have the debate about Elizabeth Warren,” said Maloney,
the subcommittee’s top Democrat.  Maloney offered an amendment to the commission bill that
would, among other things, require the chairman to be “credited
with coming up with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau”
and “standing up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.”  Warren is credited with initiating the idea of the bureau
in a 2007 article published in Democracy, a Washington-based
quarterly journal. President  Barack Obama  last year appointed
her to shape the agency.  “In all of my years in Congress, I do not believe I’ve
ever seen an amendment or bill written for one individual,”
Capito said after the amendment was introduced. The subcommittee
rejected the proposal.  ‘Political Circus’  The Republican bills were not aimed at Warren and efforts
to portray the measures as a way of expressing dislike for her
have “created somewhat of a political circus,” Capito said
after the meeting.  “The CFPB is much bigger than one person and one idea,”
she said. “It’s ridiculous to think a single person can set up
a massive agency from start to finish without others offering
suggestions on how to develop it.”  Obama hasn’t nominated a director and is running out of
time to do so before the bureau’s start date. Warren remains in
the running for the position, an Obama administration official
said last month.  Capito introduced legislation that would postpone the
transfer of power to the bureau from other regulators until a
director is confirmed. The subcommittee approved that bill 13-8.  A third measure would allow the  Financial Stability
Oversight Council , a 10-regulator panel created by Dodd-Frank,
to overrule a CFPB regulation with a majority vote. Current law
requires a two-thirds vote by the FSOC, which was established to
guard against threats to the financial system.  “We have to make sure we have a sufficient review
process,” Representative Sean Duffy, the Wisconsin Republican
who sponsored the bill, said today.  The subcommittee approved the bill 13-9.  Water Down  All three bills were attacked by consumer groups as
attempts to water down the new bureau before it begins work.  “Passage of these bills would virtually guarantee that the
CFPB would be a weak and timid agency without the will or
ability to curb the kind of financial abuses that caused the
nation’s worst financial crisis since the Great Depression,”
 Travis Plunkett , legislative director for the  Consumer
Federation of America , said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  