-- 
U.S. Treasury to Auction $72 Billion in Long-Term Debt

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-05-04T18:41:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/u-s-treasury-to-sell-72-billion-in-long-term-debt-next-week.html
The  U.S. Treasury  Department plans to
sell $72 billion in its quarterly sales of long-term debt next
week and anticipates auction sizes will “remain steady” as
Congress and the White House debate raising the debt limit.  The Treasury said it will auction $32 billion in three-year
notes on May 10, $24 billion in 10-year notes May 11 and $16
billion in 30-year bonds May 12. The total amount was in line
with expectations of bond market participants surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said May 2 the U.S.
will have three weeks more than previously projected before
hitting its borrowing limit, giving the White House and Congress
more time for a deal to raise the debt ceiling.  “There is so much uncertainty around the fiscal situation
that Treasury debt managers want to simply sit tight and see how
things play out,”  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an e-mail.
“There is no compelling need to make major changes, so they
plan to hold coupon auction sizes steady until there is enough
clarity on the fiscal side to draw up a more definitive game
plan.”  The U.S. can borrow until Aug. 2 after reaching the $14.29
trillion limit because of “stronger-than-expected tax
receipts” and by taking “extraordinary measures” such as
suspending the sale of bonds to finance state and local
infrastructure projects, Geithner said in a letter to
congressional leaders.  ‘Reasonable Likelihood’  Mary Miller , the Treasury’s assistant secretary for
financial markets, told reporters today that “there’s a
reasonable likelihood” the Aug. 2 date can change. “It could
be earlier, it could be later,” she said.  The department hasn’t specified “an amount or a time
frame” the debt limit should be raised because “we think that
should be left up to Congress,” Miller said. The Treasury
borrows an average of about $125 billion per month.  Financial markets aren’t “signaling concerns” and expect
Congress to raise the debt ceiling, Miller said.  Treasuries rose today, pushing 10-year note yields to a
six-week low, as private reports showed  service industries  in
the U.S. expanded less than forecast in April and companies
added fewer jobs last month than projected. Six-month bill rates
reached a record low for a third consecutive day with the U.S.
reducing sales of short-term securities as lawmakers debate the
debt ceiling increase.  U.S. Debt   U.S. debt has attracted $2.97 in bids for every dollar of
debt the Treasury has sold this year, near the record 2.99 bid-
to-cover ratio seen last year, as the relationship between bids
and offering size is known, Treasury data show. The U.S. has
sold $713 billion of notes and bonds so far this year, compared
with $812 billion at this time last year.  The department “expects nominal coupon auction sizes to
remain steady in the upcoming quarter,” Miller said in a
written statement earlier today. “The current suite of issuance
provides Treasury a significant amount of flexibility.”  The Treasury decreased the size of its coupon auctions from
May through November last year and has kept them steady since.  “In the unlikely event that the debt limit is not
increased by Aug. 2, some alterations to the auction schedule
should be expected,” Miller said in the statement. “In such a
scenario, Treasury will provide as much notice as possible
regarding any necessary changes to Treasury bill and coupon
auction schedules.”  Financing Requirements  Miller also said that “the balance of Treasury financing
requirements will be met with the regular weekly bill auctions,
the regular monthly nominal coupon security auctions, the May
10-year TIPS reopening, the June 30-year TIPS reopening auction
and the July 10-year TIPS auction. Treasury may also issue cash-
management bills during the quarter.”  The Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee said in a report
to Geithner yesterday that it didn’t think any changes to
Treasury auction coupons were necessary.  The committee said it thinks “reductions in marketable
borrowing should occur” in Treasury bills and the panel
“continued to focus on increasing the average maturity of the
debt.” Though the average maturity is 61 months, above the 30-
year historical average of 58.1 months, the committee said it
thinks “further extension was warranted.”  Advisory Committee  The advisory committee includes representatives from firms
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Soros Fund Management LLC.  The yield on the 10-year note fell 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.22 percent at 2:14 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data, after touching 3.2
percent, the least since March 17. The price of the 3.625
percent note maturing in February 2021 rose 6/32, or $1.88 per
$1,000 face amount, to 103 11/32.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net 
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 