-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Copper Declines to Seven-Week Low

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-05-04T11:36:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-copper-declines-to-seven-week-low.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  ONGC in  Canada  Oil Sands Talks, May Add  Kazakhstan  Assets (2)  Oil & Natural Gas Corp., India’s biggest energy explorer,
is in talks to acquire oil sands reserves in Canada and may
increase its investments in Kazakhstan to help offset declining
production.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Antofagasta Quarterly Copper Output Rises 10%, Misses Target (1)  Antofagasta Plc, the copper producer controlled by Chile’s
Luksic family, said first-quarter output rose 10 percent,
missing the company’s target.  Copper Declines to Seven-Week Low on China Tightening Concern  Copper fell to a seven-week low in  London  on concern China,
the world’s largest consumer of the metal, may take more steps
to tighten credit.  Xstrata’s Coal Output Rises 3% on  Australia ’s Mangoola Mine (1)  Xstrata Plc, the largest exporter of coal used by power
stations, said first-quarter coal output rose almost 3 percent
after it started production at its Mangoola operation in
Australia earlier than planned.  MINING:  Glencore May Get $61 Billion Value in London,  Hong Kong  IPO (2)  Glencore International AG, the commodities trader planning
the year’s biggest initial public offering, said the share sale
in London and Hong Kong this month may value the company at
about $61 billion.  Kazakhmys Output Falls 5.4% on Grades; to Meet Goals (Correct)  Kazakhmys Plc, Kazakhstan’s biggest copper company,
reported a 5.4 percent decline in first-quarter output on lower
ore grades while retaining full-year estimates.  Northam to Sell Southern Portion of Booysendal to Aquarius  Northam Platinum Ltd. said it will sell the southern
portion of the Booysendal mineral rights to Aquarius Platinum
South Africa Ltd. for 1.2 billion rand.  NMDC to Buy Stakes in 2 Australian Iron Ore Mines, Chairman Says  NMDC Ltd.,  India ’s biggest iron-ore producer, plans to buy
stakes in two mines in Australia by the end of this month,
making its first acquisition overseas, Chairman Rana Som said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Mexico  Added 93.3 Tons of Gold Since January, IMF Data Show  The Bank of Mexico added 93.3 metric tons of gold to its
reserves since January, according to International Monetary Fund
data through the end of March.  Silver, Gold Futures Dropping as Soros Reported to Have Sold  Silver futures fell, heading for the biggest three-day drop
since 2008, and gold also retreated amid a report Soros Fund
Management LLC sold precious-metal assets.  Aquarius Gains in London as Northam Acquisition Boosts Resources  Aquarius Platinum Ltd., the fourth- largest producer of the
metal, rose the most in more than nine months in London trading
on plans to boost resources with a 1.2 billion-rand ($181
million) purchase from Northam Platinum Ltd.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn, Soybeans Drop for a Third Day as Rallies May Hurt Demand  Corn and soybeans fell for a third day in  Chicago  on
concern price rallies may curb demand. Wheat declined.  Sugar Falls on Thai Production, China Inflation; Coffee Retreats  Sugar fell for a fifth day in London after production in
 Thailand , the world’s second-largest shipper, increased and on
concerns that China may take further steps to contain inflation.
Coffee also retreated.  Palm Oil  Drops to Two-Week Low as Demand for Soybeans Weakens  Palm oil dropped to the lowest level in two weeks after
soybeans fell on concern that demand for supplies from the U.S.,
the biggest exporter, will decline.  SHIPPING:  Clarkson Plc Says Hires Capital Markets, Energy Banking Team (1)  Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker, established a
capital markets and energy banking team focused on the U.S.  Syria’s Tartous, Lattakia Ports Working Normally, Inchcape Says  The Syrian ports of Tartous, Banias and Lattakia are
working normally,  Inchcape Shipping Services  said in a report on
its website today.  ECONOMIES:  China ’s ‘Hawkish’ Officials May Tighten as Growth Moderates (1)  China’s central bank said taming inflation is its top
priority, signaling that more tightening is possible even after
a manufacturing survey showed that growth may be moderating in
Asia’s biggest economy.  Geithner Says World Would Gain From Stronger China Currency (1)  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said it would
help global economies if China allows its “substantially
undervalued” currency to strengthen.  Portugal  Agrees on $116 Billion Bailout With Wider Deficits (1)  Portugal reached an agreement with officials preparing its
European Union-led bailout that will provide as much as 78
billion euros ($116 billion) in aid and allow more time to
reduce the country’s budget deficit.  U.K. House Prices Fell in April for First Time in Three Months  U.K. house prices fell in April for the first time in three
months and values will probably remain unchanged or decline
“modestly” during the rest of this year,  Nationwide Building
Society  said.  OTHER MARKETS:  Euro Gains as German Bonds, Copper Fall; Portuguese Stocks Rise  The euro strengthened while German bonds and copper fell on
speculation the European and Chinese central banks are weighing
rate increases. Portuguese stocks and bonds rose after a bailout
agreement. U.S. futures advanced.  Asia  Stocks, Commodities Fall on China Concern; Dollar Climbs  Asian stocks fell, dragging a regional index to its biggest
loss in three weeks, and commodities declined, while the dollar
and yen strengthened on concern China will step up efforts to
tame inflation. Silver futures tumbled for a third day as higher
margin requirements cut demand.  SPORTS:  Man. City Wants $83 Million for Tevez, Telegraph Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Guardiola Leads Barcelona Past Real to Champions League Final  Coach Josep Guardiola led the celebrations after Barcelona
beat archrival Real  Madrid  to a place in the Champions League
final.  Barcelona Returns to Champions League Final by Beating Rival  Barcelona is back in soccer’s Champions League final after
ousting its biggest rival.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  