-- 
Citigroup Is Said to Hire Former UBS Americas Investment Banking Chief Cox

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-05-04T20:54:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/ubs-industrials-banker-kevin-cox-said-to-have-quit-today-to-join-citigroup.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  hired  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s Kevin Cox, a top adviser to industrial companies and former head of
the Swiss firm’s  investment-banking  unit for the Americas.  Cox will become co-chairman of global industrials
investment banking, New York-based Citigroup said today in an e-
mailed statement. He will be based in New York and report to
Raymond J. McGuire, head of global banking, according to the
statement.  “Kevin is a highly experienced trusted adviser to leading
industrial companies around the world,” McGuire said in the
statement. “He is a significant addition to our global banking
team.”  UBS’s investment-banking unit for the Americas has been
undergoing management changes and losing bankers after the
Zurich-based company cut its bonus pool by 80 percent in 2008
because of the financial crisis. Those who have left for other
firms since 2009 include the chairman of investment banking,
Richard Leaman, and the heads of investment banking for health-
care, energy, and technology, media and telecommunications.  Cox led the UBS Americas unit from 2009 through March, when
the bank appointed him global chairman of general industries.
He worked at Morgan Stanley before joining UBS in 2002 and has
advised companies including  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ,
and Dow Chemical Co.  ‘Industry-Leading Talent’  “We are grateful to Kevin for his contributions during the
past nine years,” said Torie von Alt, a spokeswoman at UBS. The
global industrials group has boosted revenue under the
leadership of its chief, Karl Knapp, she said. “Our clients
will continue to benefit from our unrivaled global footprint and
industry-leading talent.”  Attrition from the managing-director level at the Americas
investment-banking unit is at the lowest level in four years,
von Alt said.  UBS promoted Aryeh Bourkoff to head investment banking for
the Americas in March, when Cox became global chairman of
general industries. Bourkoff, who most recently was joint global
head of technology, media and telecommunications banking,
started at UBS in 1999. He initially worked in the fixed-income
clearing group and later as an equity research analyst.  UBS hired Stephen Cummings in April as chairman of
investment banking in the Americas to work with Bourkoff.
Cummings was Wachovia Corp.’s head of corporate and investment
banking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net .
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  