-- 
UBS Said to Seek Former JPMorgan Banker Rosen to Head U.S. Credit Trading

-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-05-04T13:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/ubs-is-said-in-talks-with-ex-jpmorgan-trader-rosen-to-run-u-s-credit-unit.html
UBS AG (UBS)  is seeking to hire Eric Rosen
to head credit trading in the U.S. as  Switzerland ’s biggest
lender attempts to increase revenue at the investment bank that
trails those of its largest rivals.  Rosen, 41, ran North American credit trading at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  until January 2010. The bank informed employees in
its debt group about the potential hire last week, according to
three people with knowledge of the situation, who declined to be
identified because the situation hasn’t been publicly announced.
Torie Von Alt, a spokeswoman for Zurich-based UBS, and Rosen
declined to comment.  UBS Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel , a former bond
trader, hired more than 1,700 bankers in the past two years to
rebuild the investment bank after more than $57 billion in
writedowns and credit losses during the financial crisis. The
Swiss bank had the lowest revenue from sales and trading of
fixed-income, currencies and commodities last year among the
nine biggest investment banks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Credit revenue rose 33 percent to 988 million francs ($1.15
billion) in the first quarter from the year-earlier period, UBS
said last week. Credit trading, which includes underwriting,
sales and trading of bonds, derivatives, notes and loans, posted
revenue of 2.3 billion francs last year, more than double the
target that Gruebel set for the business in 2009 to achieve by
2014.  Rosen joined JPMorgan in 1997 from Bank of America and ran
loan trading until 2004 when he was promoted to also oversee
bonds and credit-default swaps. He decided “to pursue new
interests,” according to a November 2009 memo from the New
York-based bank.  JPMorgan was ranked the most-active U.S. underwriter of
leveraged loans from 2000 to 2007 and has been the No. 1
arranger of corporate bonds globally since 2008, Bloomberg data
show. UBS is the eleventh most active company bond underwriter
for 2011, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  