-- 
UBS Agrees to Pay $160.2 Million in U.S. Municipal-Bond Bid-Rigging Probe

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-05-04T20:25:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/ubs-agrees-to-pay-160-2-million-in-u-s-municipal-bond-bid-rigging-probe.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank,
agreed to pay $160.2 million to settle charges it rigged bids on
at least 100 U.S. municipal-bond transactions that generated
“millions of dollars in ill-gotten gains.”  UBS will pay $47.2 million to settle Securities and
Exchange Commission charges and $113 million to end cases
brought by other federal and state authorities, the SEC said
today in  Washington . Some of the money will be returned to
municipalities, the SEC said.  The settlement agreements, which involved 25 states, are
part of criminal and civil investigations into a conspiracy by
financial firms and municipal advisers to overcharge state and
local governments for investment products. UBS’s activity
threatened the tax-exempt status of $16.5 billion of municipal
bonds, the SEC said.  “Our complaint against UBS reads like a ‘how-to’ primer
for bid-rigging and securities fraud,” Elaine Greenberg, chief
of the SEC’s Municipal Securities and Public Pensions Unit, said
in a statement. “They used secret arrangements and multiple
roles to win business and defraud municipalities through the
repeated use of illegal courtesy bids, last looks for favored
bidders, and money to bidding agents disguised as swap
payments.”  Four-Year Probe  The bank is the second to settle charges in the
government’s more-than-four-year antitrust investigation into
bid rigging for investments states and cities make with proceeds
from the $400 billion of bonds they sell yearly. Last year, Bank
of America Corp. agreed to pay $137 million in restitution.  Localities routinely hire advisers to invest bond proceeds
at the highest returns offered by banks and insurers until the
money is needed for public works. The U.S.  Justice Department 
alleges financial companies paid kickbacks to advisers to run
sham auctions so they could win the public money to invest at
below-market rates.  Prosecutors say bankers covered their activity by
submitting phony bids in auctions won by their rivals and using
separate derivative contracts to funnel payments to advisers.  The SEC’s complaint said UBS illicitly won bids as a
provider of municipal-bond investment contracts and also rigged
bids for the benefit of other banks. In some cases, UBS gave
favored banks information on competing bids when it acted as a
broker, the SEC alleged, while in other cases it won bids after
receiving inside information.  Former Employees  “UBS is pleased to have resolved this matter with its
regulators,” the Zurich-based company said in a statement.
“The underlying transactions were entered into in a business
that no longer exists at UBS and involved employees who are no
longer with the firm.”  UBS said the settlement costs were accounted for in
previous quarters and won’t affect future results.  Since October 2009, nine advisers to local governments and
bankers working for financial firms including UBS, Bank of
America and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  pleaded guilty in the case.
Nine others have pleaded not guilty and are fighting charges in
court.  Last year, former UBS banker Mark Zaino pleaded guilty to
fixing prices when brokering municipal-investment deals by
submitting intentionally losing bids at auctions run by Los
Angeles-broker CDR Financial Products. UBS allegedly entered
into separate trades with another bank that were used to funnel
kickbacks to CDR. Zaino agreed to cooperate in the
investigation.  The Justice Department also indicted the former co-head of
UBS’s municipal derivatives group and two colleagues.  Co-Conspirators  The government has identified more than a dozen firms,
including JPMorgan Chase, units of  General Electric Co. (GE) , and
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA of  France , as unindicted co-conspirators in
the case against CDR, according to court records.  While competitive bidding is meant to ensure local
governments get market rates on their investments, prosecutors
say bankers and brokers carved up the market among themselves.
The U.S. says that inflated their earnings at the expense of
taxpayers and the Treasury, which is entitled to some investment
earnings from tax-exempt bond proceeds.  The activity is similar to the so-called yield-burning
cases of the 1990s, when banks faced allegations of overcharging
local issuers for Treasury bonds they bought with bond money.
Financial companies paid  more than $170 million  to settle SEC
investigations into that case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 