-- 
UN Renewables ‘Bible’ Says Clean Energy Can Outstrip Demand

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-05-04T13:54:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/un-renewables-bible-says-in-report-that-clean-energy-can-outstrip-demand.html
Wind and solar power are among six
renewable energy options that have the potential to outstrip
total world energy needs and may grow as much as 20-fold over
the next four decades, a draft  United Nations  report said.  Geothermal, biomass, solar, wind, hydropower and
electricity from the ocean’s waves and tides could more than
meet the global energy needs for power, heating and transport
based on 2008 demand, according to the study by the UN’s
 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change , or IPCC.  In practice, less than 2.5 percent of that potential will
be used, the panel said, basing the finding on four scenarios
out of 164 examined in the UN’s biggest assessment of
alternative energy. A shift to low-carbon energy will require a
global investment of as much as $12.3 trillion by 2030, it said.  “This study will establish itself as ‘the bible’ of
renewable energy for the coming years,” said Sven Teske,
renewable energy director of Greenpeace International and a lead
author of the report. “It’s one of the most comprehensive
surveys of all the different technologies and their costs.”  The full report is about 1,000 pages, Teske said. He
declined to comment on the report’s contents. A 29-page draft of
the study’s “summary for policymakers” was sent to Bloomberg
by an official involved in its preparation who declined to be
named because it hasn’t been made public yet.  Nick Nuttall, a spokesman for the UN panel, declined to
comment on the draft, which will be debated by government
representatives from the group’s 194 members in a four-day
meeting that starts tomorrow in  Abu Dhabi .  ‘Subject to Revision’  “Whatever is in draft form right now is subject to
revision,” Nuttall said today in a phone interview. “Starting
tomorrow, governments will review the draft and comment on it.
They’ll go through it line-by-line and this will be then subject
to the approval of governments. We don’t expect that to happen
until late on May 8th or early May 9th.”  The IPCC in 2007 published its most definitive report on
 climate change , which is used to guide international climate
treaty negotiations and for which it shared the Nobel Peace
Prize. The panel has since admitted errors in that study,
including exaggerating the melting of Himalayan glaciers.  Renewable energy for electricity, heating and transport is
set to increase by a factor of three to 20 by 2050, according to
the “majority” of scenarios examined, the panel said in the
summary draft. That projection doesn’t include traditional
biomass, which is principally the burning of wood for cooking in
 developing countries .  Burning Fossil Fuels  Moving from fossil fuels to renewables requires new
policies to attract “significant increases” in investment,
with up to $5.1 trillion required from 2011 through 2020, and as
much as $7.1 trillion needed the following decade, the panel
said. That compares with the $20 trillion the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency  has estimated needs to be spent on
all energy infrastructure by 2030.  The researchers said a range of policies was open to
governments to encourage clean energy, including low-interest
loans, subsidies and placing a price on  carbon emissions  from
burning fossil fuels.  “Scenarios are largely consistent in indicating widespread
growth in renewable energy deployment around the globe,” the
draft said. “If decision-makers intend to increase the share of
renewable energy and, at the same time, to meet ambitious
climate mitigation targets, then long-standing commitments and
flexibility to learn from experience will be critical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 