-- 
Hungarian Banks’ Liquidity Buffer Weakening, Kiraly Says

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-05-04T08:31:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/hungarian-banks-liquidity-buffer-weakening-kiraly-says-1-.html
Hungarian lenders’ liquidity buffer is
weakening because of an increase in short-term funding, posing a
threat to financial stability and the economy, a central bank
official said.  The shortening of the maturity of banks’ external funding
“is a process that must be turned around at any cost,” central
bank Vice President Julia Kiraly said at a conference in
Budapest today. The liquidity buffer of some banks is “quite
stretched,” she said.  Hungarian banks are faced with deteriorating profitability
due to the high ratio of bad loans and a special tax levied on
lenders. Banks’ unwillingness to lend is a threat to economic
recovery and may undermine government’s plans to boost growth.  “Overall the capital position of the Hungarian banking
system is adequate, however the picture is becoming nuanced as
the number of banks with capital losses is on the rise,” Kiraly
said. Some lenders’ capital buffer is not sufficient to boost
their lending activity, she said.  The central bank expects corporate lending to revive
somewhat by the end of 2011 and sees household lending turning
positive only next year, and mortgage lending will be the
slowest to recover, she said.  Kiraly urged the lifting of a moratorium on evictions and
an easing of the special bank tax to reduce the vulnerability of
the financial system and to help restore banks’ willingness to
lend.  Moratorium  The government extended a moratorium on the eviction of
non-paying mortgage holders until July 1 and is seeking to reach
an agreement with banks on helping foreign-currency mortgage
holders who saw their repayments soar as a result of the
weakening of the forint.  Hungary should impose quotas on banks as they begin to
clean their portfolios of bad loans once the moratorium expires,
Kiraly said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  