-- 
Hungary Needs More Measures to Meet Budget Target, Moody’s Says

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-05-04T11:43:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/hungary-needs-more-measures-to-meet-budget-target-moody-s-says.html
Hungary will probably need more
measures to meet its budget targets as the lack of labor-market
capacity make the government’s economic growth goals "very
difficult" to reach, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  "The thing which concerns us more than anything is the poor
demographics,"  Anthony Thomas , an analyst at Moody’s, said today
in an interview in Prague. "If you look at the labor market,
it’s a shrinking population, the participation rate is low, so
in terms of generating strong growth it’s just very difficult to
see where that’s going to come from."  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  was elected last year on a
pledge to boost growth and create 1 million jobs in a decade as
the country with the European Union’s second-lowest employment
rate emerges from its worst recession in almost two decades.
Growth may accelerate to more than 5 percent by 2014, according
to a "dynamic" scenario the government published on April 15.  Hungary  has breached the European Union budget-deficit
ceiling of 3 percent of gross domestic product every year since
joining the bloc in 2004. Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings all have the country’s debt at their lowest investment
grade level with negative outlooks.  This year’s budget-deficit target is 2.94 percent,
excluding the impact of private-pension fund portfolios
transferred to the state, which will lead to a 2 percent
surplus, according to government estimates. Hungary aims to
narrow the gap to 2.5 percent next year and 1.9 percent in 2014
from 4.3 percent last year.  ‘Difficult to See’  "If they’re relying on strong growth to get the deficit
down, it’s just difficult to see that materializing," Thomas
said while attending a conference in Prague.  Hungary last year imposed special taxes on the financial,
energy, telecommunications and retail industries and channeled
almost 3 trillion forint ($16.8 billion) in assets managed by
private pension funds to the budget to narrow the shortfall and
cut the highest public debt level among eastern EU members.  The country, which got an international bailout loan in
2008, plans savings reaching 900 billion forint ($4.8 billion)
annually in 2013 and 2014, starting with 550 billion forint in
2012, to put budget financing on a sustainable footing, Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on March 1.  The measures include a delay in a cut of the corporate
income tax rate, the extension of a bank tax and tighter
retirement and welfare rules.  "The government will probably have to take more measures in
order to get the deficit down," Thomas said earlier today in a
speech. "It’s very difficult to see the economy reaching the
forecasts which the government has based its fiscal-
consolidation program on."  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  