-- 
Turkish Stocks Fall First Day in Five on Bank Regulator Warning

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-05-04T15:56:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/turkish-stocks-rise-for-fifth-day-before-bank-earnings-report.html
Turkish stocks snapped a four-day
winning streak after a regulator said it may take action against
banks that break limits on mortgage lending.  The main ISE National 100 erased earlier gains, slumping
0.9 percent to 69,437.55 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Istanbul.
 Turkey ’s bank index slumped 1.3 percent, falling the first day
in five. The lira weakened 0.5 percent to 1.5409 per dollar.  The Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency in Ankara has
the right to “relieve banks of their powers” should they not
adhere to rules such as providing mortgages of a maximum of 75
percent of the value of a property, chief regulator Tevfik Bilgin said in a telephone interview today.  “The stocks have fallen because of BRSA Chairman Tevfik
Bilgin’s statements,” Burak Demircioglu, a trader at EFG
Istanbul Securities, said in e-mailed comments.  Turkish bank lending increased an annual 35.7 percent in
the week to April 22, the same pace as the previous week. That’s
in spite of government efforts to curb loan growth by increasing
 reserve requirements  at lenders. The government and central bank
say lenders should cap loan growth at 25 percent this year.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , which will announce its first-
quarter results tomorrow, fell 2 percent to 8.02 liras. Banks
make up 41 percent of the benchmark index.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are among
foreign banks which have cut their ratings and estimates for
Turkish lenders, citing the increase in reserve requirements.  “Very big funds are exiting emerging markets but selling
Turkey the most,” Suha Yaygin, deputy chief of emerging markets
at Toronto-Dominion Bank in London, wrote in e-mailed comments.  Two-year benchmark bonds fell for a third day, sending
yields up one basis point to 8.46 percent, according to the TEB
Local Benchmark Bond Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net  