-- 
Vestas Loss Bigger Than Expected as European Demand Slows

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-05-04T16:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/vestas-first-quarter-loss-was-bigger-expected-to-break-even-in-first-half.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s
largest wind-turbine maker, lost more money than expected in the
first quarter as  Europe ’s debt crisis slowed clean-energy
investment. The stock shed $575 million in market value today.  The loss widened to 85 million euros ($126 million) from a
39 million-euro loss a year earlier, the Randers, Denmark-based
company said today in a statement. That missed the average
estimate of a 36.9 million-euro loss of nine analysts surveyed.
Sales rose 25 percent to 1.06 billion euros while orders were a
“weaker-than-expected” 630 megawatts, it said.  “The results and the order intake disappointed,” said
Christian Nagstrup, an analyst at Silkeborg, Denmark-based Jyske
Bank A/S, in a note to investors. “This means there’s increased
uncertainty as to whether Vestas will be able to meet its
guidance.”  The company’s market value shrank 44 percent in 2010 after
it twice lowered a sales forecast as wind-park developers faced
tougher financing terms, pricing pressure from Asian competitors
and European governments cut investments amid mounting public
debt. Vestas today kept its forecast for revenue of 7 billion
euros in 2011 and orders of 7,000 to 8,000 megawatts while
noting competition is “fierce.”  Turn the Corner?  “Weak quarter profitability and a light level of order
intake for the period” are weighing down the shares, Rupesh Madlani, an analyst in London at  Barclays Capital  who rates the
stock “equalweight,” said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  The stock fell as much as 12.4 percent in Copenhagen
trading, the most since Aug. 18, and closed 8 percent lower at
163.5 kroner, wiping out about 2.9 billion kroner ($575 million)
of market value.  “We expect to see the company begin to turn the corner in
the next few quarters as delivery of projects drives earnings,
and new product launches leads to strength in new orders,”
Madlani said. Nagstrup has a “buy” recommendation on the
stock.  Vestas’s orders in the Americas have declined to about 25
percent of the global total, down from 30 percent, because
cheaper natural gas has reduced utility demand for  wind
turbines , Chief Executive Officer Ditlev Engel said today in an
interview in  New York .  “It’s been a little slower than we expected in the U.S.,”
Engel said. “It’s been challenging because of low gas prices.”  Gas, which fuels about a fifth of U.S. electricity and is
the country’s fastest growing power source, has declined 12
percent over the past two years to $4.66 per million British
thermal units on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , and is down
66 percent from a July 2008 high of $3.58.  Waiting Time  Globally, the weaker-than-expected order intake “was
principally due to extended public hearings, waiting time for
financing and postponement of final approvals of the many
projects which Vestas is currently negotiating,” the turbine
maker said.  The Spanish turbine market is the “biggest challenge” in
Europe, and while it will recover, that won’t happen this year,
the company said in a presentation to investors today.  Wind components inventories declined 33 percent in the
first quarter to 2.62 billion euros a year earlier, Vestas said.
Inventories are still too large, and the company plans further
reductions this year.  Earnings will show “major quarter-on-quarter
fluctuations,” reflecting changes in order flow and factory
utilization, the company said. The company said it expects a
margin for earnings before interest and tax of 7 percent this
year. Vestas will “break even” on Ebit level for the first six
months of the year, it said.  Vestas, which has a 2015 target of 15 billion euros in
revenue and a 15 percent Ebit margin, said it will give a
“strategic update” on that target when it publishes third-
quarter results on Nov. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net 
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  