-- 
Time Warner Said to Pay at Least $80 Million for Flixster

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-05-05T04:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/warner-bros-plans-more-deals-after-rotten-tomatoes-flixster.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.
division is paying about $80 million for the Flixster movie
application and related  Rotten Tomatoes  website, according to
three people with knowledge of the transaction.  As part of the deal, Time Warner may pay an additional $20
million in bonuses aimed at retaining Flixster Inc.’s top
executives, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the terms of the deal weren’t made public when it was announced
yesterday.  The acquisition is intended to give Time Warner customers a
place to store the digital movies or TV shows they buy or rent.
The sites would be part of Warner’s “Digital Everywhere”
application that lets consumers store content and view it on
devices connected through the UltraViolet format endorsed by
several studios, the company said yesterday in a statement.  Time Warner plans to make more acquisitions as it expands
its digital delivery and marketing ability, Kevin Tsujihara,
president of Burbank, California-based Warner Bros. Home
Entertainment Group, said in an interview.  “There is a sense of urgency about helping the consumer to
transition to digital,” he said. “This will not be the last
announcement that we make.”  Time Warner, which is based in  New York , fell $1.24 to
$36.49 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange trading. The shares
have gained 13 percent this year.  Tsujihara wouldn’t comment on specific deals Warner might
consider and said the acquisition of Flixster and Rotten
Tomatoes could eventually be linked with an online-rental
service on Facebook Inc.’s site that it introduced in March.  Netflix Rival?  That service, which offers movies including “The  Dark
Knight ” and “Inception,” could give Warner a potential
competitor to  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , he said in response to a question,
although he added that “there will always be a place for
Netflix.”  Joe Greenstein, co-founder and chief executive officer of
San Francisco-based Flixster, declined to comment on the terms
of the acquisition. Tsujihara also declined to comment on the
terms of the deal.  Flixster, which provides movie information and social
networking on Android, BlackBerry and iPad devices, is
downloaded more than 25 million times a month. It also provides
limited free online movie viewing. Rotten Tomatoes, meanwhile,
offers movie reviews and other film information to more than 12
million unique users a month.  Warner Bros. will be able to market its films through the
social-networking capabilities of both Flixster and Rotten
Tomatoes, Tsujihara said.  “The thing that we have to do is to take the guesswork out
of buying and watching digital content,” he said. “You don’t
want a consumer to buy a digital copy of a movie and find that
it doesn’t work on an iPad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  