-- 
Wells Fargo Hires Jinishian to Build Technology-Banking Team

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-04T22:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/wells-fargo-hires-jinishian-to-build-technology-banking-team.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, hired John Jinishian as the West Coast head
of technology mergers and acquisitions to increase deals in
Silicon Valley.  Jinishian, 54, was co-head of technology investment banking
at New York-based Cantor Fitzgerald LP, according to Wells
Fargo. The lender also hired Peter Stabler, 45, a former  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  analyst, to cover Internet, digital media and
advertising companies, according to John Shrewsberry, head of
Wells Fargo’s investment bank.  Jinishian will help advise technology companies, where
“fundamentals continue to be pointing in the right direction
and where, from a value standpoint, there is much to be excited
about,” Shrewsberry, 46, said in a May 2 phone interview.  The executives work in the securities unit, the capital
markets and investment-banking business of San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo. The lender has advised on one technology deal so
far this year, the $300 million acquisition of Sotera Defense
Solutions Inc. of McLean,  Virginia , by Los Angeles-based Ares
Management LLC. That ranked Wells Fargo 30th in technology deals
among global firms, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “They aren’t a particularly multifaceted firm in terms of
the investment-banking product,” Eric Risley, founder of
Architect Partners, a technology M&A advisory firm based in
 Menlo Park ,  California , said in a phone interview. “They have
never had much of an investment-banking platform and for them to
build one would be tough.”  ‘Time and Effort’  With “time and effort,” Wells Fargo may be able to
establish a more targeted M&A business, Risley said.  Elise Wilkinson, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, disagreed with
Risley’s assertions.  “Wells Fargo has a multifaceted investment-banking
platform designed to directly complement our large corporate and
commercial businesses,” Wilkinson said in an e-mailed
statement. “We’re continuing to grow our investment-banking
business because we see strong upside opportunity and because
that’s what our customers want.”  The new hires are intended to fill some of those gaps
“because the resources aren’t there” for the “hundreds of
clients” in need of advisory or capital markets services,
Shrewsberry said.  “We can add more value by putting more resources in front
of clients today than we could, from an investment-banking point
of view, in the previous cycle,” Shrewsberry said. “We’re
seeing good demand for a variety of products.”  Pandora, Cisco  Wells Fargo is an underwriter for Oakland, California-based
Pandora Media Inc., the largest Internet radio company, which
announced plans in February to raise $100 million in an IPO. The
bank was also the joint book runner for  San Jose , California-
based Cisco Systems Inc.’s $4 billion debt sale and for a $1.5
billion bond offering for  Round Rock , Texas-based  Dell Inc. (DELL)   Wells Fargo ranks 16th among advisers on U.S. mergers and
acquisitions pending or completed this year, advising on 11
deals worth a combined $15.5 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The company ranks 13th among underwriters of U.S.
debt offerings, with 411 sales worth $20.7 billion, the data
shows.  Jinishian and Stabler join Gerry Walters, 41, a former
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive named head of technology banking
for the West Coast in December. Wells Fargo also hired Akhil Ahuja, who covered hardware companies for JPMorgan and is
expected to start next month, reporting to Walters, the company
said.  Jinishian, based in  San Francisco , has 22 years of
investment-banking experience, including as global head of
technology M&A for New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  between 1998
and 2008, according to Wells Fargo. He reports to John Laughlin,
head of M&A. Stabler spent 18 years in the advertising industry
before becoming an analyst.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 