-- 
Wells Fargo CEO Says ‘Crazy’ Capital Rules Can Damage Economy

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-04T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/wells-fargo-ceo-says-crazy-capital-rules-can-damage-economy.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Stumpf , who runs the fourth-biggest  U.S. bank , said
stricter  capital requirements  abroad may damage the economy.  “There is a point where it gets excessive and it gets
crazy and we’re starting to reach those numbers,” Stumpf, 57,
said yesterday at the bank’s annual shareholder meeting in San
Francisco. “It can’t just be more and more capital. That’s not
the answer.”  Stumpf cited a push by Swiss regulators that would force
lenders to hold capital equal to at least 19 percent of risk-
weighted assets. The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
proposed last year that lenders hold 10.5 percent of capital to
risk-weighted assets, and suggested countries consider setting
stricter rules for their biggest lenders.  Stumpf, in his fourth annual meeting as Wells Fargo’s CEO,
said liquidity coverage ratios proposed by the Basel committee
“may be even more problematic than capital” rules. The ratio
would require lenders to hold a stock of liquid assets
sufficient to survive a 30-day seizing up of credit markets.  Protesters held up the Wells Fargo meeting for 25 minutes,
demanding a moratorium on home foreclosures. Stumpf said Wells
Fargo wouldn’t comply.  “Until you commit to a moratorium we are not leaving,”
said one audience member who refused to leave the microphone and
said she spoke on behalf of  Just Cause , an Oakland, California-
based tenant-advocacy organization. About five people removed
from the building by security.  Shareholders approved all 14 independent directors on the
ballot and voted against five shareholder proposals. A measure
that would have given investors holding 10 percent of the stock
a right to call a special meeting came closest to passing, with
44 percent of the vote, said Laurel Holschuh, company secretary.  Wells Fargo rose 38 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $29.51
yesterday in regular New York Stock Exchange trading. The stock
had dropped 4.8 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 