-- 
Western Asset Buys Won as Kokusai Sees Korea Gaining From Japan Earthquake

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-05-04T00:05:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/western-asset-buys-won-as-kokusai-sees-korea-gaining-from-japan-earthquake.html
Asian fund managers are stepping up
purchases of South Korean assets after exports reached a record
high following  Japan ’s earthquake and policy makers allowed
faster gains in the won to tackle inflation.  Western Asset Management Co. said it added to its bet on
the won in the last two weeks, Baring Asset Management Asia Ltd.
plans to include Korea in an Asian bond fund it will start in
May, and Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the
world’s largest bond fund, said last month the currency was
“undervalued.”  The won has advanced 5.4 percent against the dollar, the
best performance among the 10 most-traded Asian currencies,
since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami caused a nuclear
crisis, power shortages and supply-chain disruptions in Japan.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. revised its three-month won forecast to
1,050 from 1,080 on April 26, saying appreciation is an
effective way of tempering inflation.  “The case is appealing for investors to raise their won
exposure, not just because of the opportunities created by the
earthquake and tsunami,” Thomas Kwan, head of Asian debt
investment in  Hong Kong  at Baring, which had about $55 billion
of assets under management at end-March, said in an interview on
April 28. “Because of the high inflation, the  Bank of Korea  is
willing to allow more currency appreciation.”  Bonds held by overseas investors increased by a net 1.13
trillion won ($1.06 billion) in April, the biggest jump in six
months, according to data from the country’s  Financial
Supervisory Service . They purchased a net 4.4 trillion won of
South Korean stocks in the month, the regulator said. Net buying
reached $202 million so far this week on track for a third week
of additions, stock exchange data show.  Fighting Inflation  Won gains are curbing inflation, with consumer prices
rising 4.2 percent from a year earlier in April, after a 4.7
percent gain in March, official data showed on May 2. The Bank
of  Korea , which next meets on May 13, raised the seven-day
repurchase rate to 3 percent in March, the fourth increase since
June.  The won will advance to 1,045 by the year-end, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The
currency, which fell 0.3 percent to 1,068.80 yesterday, reached
1,064.60 on May 2, the strongest since August 2008.  “The rise in exports and the trade surplus are supporting
the won,” said Sam Hong, senior vice president in charge of
currency strategy at Seoul-based  Shinhan Bank . “Still, the
benefits may be short-lived, as exports are temporarily up
helped by post-earthquake demand from Japan.”  Japan Shipments Jump  Exports rose 26.6 percent in April from a year earlier to a
record $49.77 billion, a May 1 report showed, creating a  trade
surplus  of $5.8 billion, the most since October. The economy
expanded 1.4 percent in the first quarter following a 0.5
percent gain in the preceding three months.  Shipments to Japan jumped 70.1 percent in the first 20 days
of April from a year earlier, helped by oil products, steel and
mobile phones, the government said May 1. Exports account for
about half of gross domestic product. The won has gained 3.5
percent versus the yen since March 11.  “The trade was very good despite the stronger won and the
higher oil,” said Rajeev de Mello, who helps oversee $454
billion as head of Asian investment in  Singapore  at Western
Asset Management, the Pasadena, California-based fixed-income
unit of Legg Mason Inc. “I still think the Korean won has a lot
of potential. I am sure there was some contribution” to the
trade from Japan’s supply-chain problem, he said.  Japan’s economy was heavily impacted by its largest
earthquake on record, with factory output dropping a record 15.3
in March from the month before and household spending falling
8.5 percent from a year earlier, government reports showed on
April 28. Toyota Motor Corp., Japan’s biggest carmaker and a
rival of Korea’s Hyundai Motor Co., said its global production
fell 30 percent in March.  Korean Refiners Benefit  South Korean companies were already benefiting from a
global economic recovery. SK Innovation Co., the nation’s
biggest oil refiner, reported first-quarter net income of 853.3
billion won on April 29, nearly three times as much as the year
before. S-Oil Corp., another refiner, had a more than fivefold
increase in first-quarter profits.  “There will be some additional demand for Korean parts and
products when Japanese manufacturers can’t ship them, as they
offer the similar grade and quality,” said Tatsuya Higuchi,
senior  money manager  at Kokusai Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo ,
which oversees about $56 billion of assets. “We remain bullish
on  South Korea .”  Won assets accounted for about 15 percent of Kokusai’s Asia
Sovereign Open fund at the end of March, second only to the
Indian rupee’s 19.6 percent, according to its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  