-- 
Whitney Defends Her Prediction of ‘Hundreds of Billions’ in Muni Defaults

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-05-04T19:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/whitney-defends-her-prediction-of-hundreds-of-billions-in-muni-defaults.html
Meredith Whitney , the analyst who
correctly predicted Citigroup Inc.’s 2008 dividend cut,
defended her prediction of “hundreds of billions of dollars’
worth” of municipal-bond defaults.  Whitney, 41, speaking today at the  Milken Global Conference 
in Beverly Hills,  California , said local governments in states
such as California, Nevada, Arizona and  Florida  that are
dependent on the housing and construction industries for higher
tax revenue would continue to struggle financially.  “States have been spending at two-and-a-half times their
tax receipts,” she said. “The states then are cutting off aid
to their local governments which rely on them for over a third
of their monies. The local municipalities have nowhere to go and
their bias is to save their constituents before they save their
bondholders.”  Whitney, who heads New York-based Meredith Whitney Advisory
Group LLC, told  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s “60 Minutes” on Dec. 19 that
municipal-bond investors could “see 50 sizable defaults, 50 to
100 sizable defaults, more,” that “will amount to hundreds of
billions of dollars’ worth of defaults.”  Her prediction accelerated the flight of investors from
municipal-bond funds and a decline in bond prices.  “There’s nothing controversial about that call, if you
look at the numbers,” she said today, later adding: “This
municipal issue, you can criticize me for anything you want, I’m
numb to it, because I have more conviction on this than I’ve had
on any single thing in my career.”  Solomon Disagrees  David Solomon, co-head of investment banking at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , speaking on the same panel as Whitney, said he
disagreed.  “I don’t think we’re doomed,” he said. “I’d be more
balanced on it. Ultimately tax receipts will have to go up and
there’s only one way to do that and that’s increase taxes. The
 U.S. economy  is going to perform better over the next year or
two than the general consensus.”  Farm Belt states such as Iowa that are benefiting from
rising agricultural prices and their logistics and
transportation industries will see stronger growth than the rest
of the nation, Whitney said.  “There’s myriad ways of playing every industry and each
county,” Whitney said, when asked where to invest. “There’s
opportunity-rich scenarios in every state and every market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  