-- 
Wisconsin Top Court Seeks Collective-Bargaining Case Briefs

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-05-04T22:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/wisconsin-top-court-seeks-collective-bargaining-case-briefs-1-.html
Wisconsin’s  Supreme Court  asked state
Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen and opponents of a law limiting
public employee collective-bargaining rights for briefs on
whether it can take over and dismiss a challenge to the measure.  Dane County  District Attorney General Ismael Ozanne in
March won a lower court order barring enforcement of a law the
prosecutor claims was created by legislators in violation of the
state’s open meetings law.  Wisconsin’s capital city, Madison, is also the seat of Dane
County. Ozanne is a Democrat.  The law requires annual recertification votes for union
representation of public employees and makes their payment of
union dues voluntary. Democrats and organized labor have opposed
the measure, which was signed March 11 by Republican  Wisconsin 
Governor  Scott Walker , as an attack on worker rights.  Van Hollen has appealed state Circuit Court Judge Maryann
Sumi’s order blocking enforcement of the law and has brought a
separate lawsuit on behalf Mike Huebsch, secretary of the
state’s Department of Administration, asking the high court to
take original jurisdiction over the Ozanne case and dismiss it.  The Supreme Court today ordered Ozanne, Sumi and six state
legislators -- four Republicans and two Democrats -- named as
respondents in the Huebsch case to brief the court by May 18 on
whether it can take over the Ozanne case and dispose of it.  Six Legislators  Defendants in the lawsuit filed by Ozanne, the six
legislators were all members of the joint Senate-Assembly
committee that crafted the challenged legislation.  Van Hollen , who is a Republican, and Huebsch must reply by
May 27. The Supreme Court said it will hear argument on the
issues on June 6.  The attorney general also appealed Sumi’s injunction to the
intermediate-level state Court of Appeals, which has asked the
Supreme Court whether a law can be voided if it is the product
of an open meetings law breach.  The prosecutor’s case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne
v. Fitzgerald, 11cv1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison). The Huebsch case is State v. Circuit Court for Dane
County, 2011AP000765, Wisconsin Supreme Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Madison at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  