-- 
Yemen in Danger of Collapse If Pact Not Signed, Eryani Says

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-05-04T11:56:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/yemen-in-danger-of-collapse-if-pact-not-signed-eryani-says.html
Yemen is in danger of collapse if a
Gulf-brokered agreement that calls for President Ali Abdullah Saleh to step down within a month is not signed soon, said
Abdul-Karim al-Eryani, Saleh’s political adviser.  Yemen’s ruling and opposition parties were expected to sign
the accord in the Saudi capital,  Riyadh , on May 1. The ceremony
was canceled after Saleh said he would sign the accord as
chairman of the ruling General People’s Congress and not in his
capacity as president, according to the opposition.  “This is a technical issue,” al-Eryani said in a
telephone interview from  Madrid . “The world should not crucify
Yemen on a cross of signatures.” He said he is still optimistic
that the dispute will be resolved and “the signing will take
place.”  The accord, brokered by members of the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council, aims to end weeks of anti-government
protests that began on Feb. 11, in which at least 100 people
have died, according to the Arabic Sisters Forum for Human
Rights.  GCC officials are seeking to avert an escalation of the
violence in Yemen or a deadly military divide like the one in
 Libya . Rising social unrest also threatens to strengthen al-
Qaeda as it seeks to use Yemen, the poorest Arab nation, as a
base from which to destabilize neighboring  Saudi Arabia , the
world’s largest exporter of crude oil.  “Yemen cannot endure more weeks of protests,” said al-
Eryani. “It should end soon or else the country’s economy and
security will crash.”  Yemen’s opposition Joint Meeting Parties, which represents
six opposition groups, wants Saleh to sign as head of state as
stipulated in the agreement. Its members worry that Saleh may
not abide by the terms of the accord if he signs only as
chairman of the party.  “It’s a question of willingness,” Mohammed al-Mutawakkil,
a member of the Joint Meeting Parties’ higher council, said in a
telephone interview from Sana’a today. “Does he or doesn’t he
want to sign? It’s all up to him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  