-- 
Yen, Dollar Strengthen on China Tightening Concern; N.Z. Dollar Declines

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-05-04T05:46:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/yen-dollar-strengthen-on-china-tightening-concern-asian-stock-declines.html
The yen and dollar strengthened
against most major counterparts on speculation  China  will
introduce additional tightening measures to combat inflation,
boosting demand for safer assets.  The Japanese and U.S. currencies also advanced for a second
day versus the euro as Asian stocks and commodity prices
declined. New Zealand’s dollar dropped to a two-week low after a
government report showed the nation had the biggest net outflow
of residents in more than 10 years. South Korea’s won fell for a
second day after the nation’s financial regulator and central
bank said an investigation into banks’ trading of currency
derivatives will be expanded.  “Worries that further monetary tightening in China could
choke off growth may be causing  risk aversion ,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist in Singapore at Westpac Banking
Corp.,  Australia ’s second-biggest lender. “Against this
backdrop, the yen and the dollar are likely to be bought.”  Japan’s currency rose to 119.77 per euro as of 6:35 a.m. in
 London  from 119.99 in  New York  yesterday, when it climbed to
119.21, the strongest level since April 26. The dollar rose 0.1
percent to $1.4815 per euro. The yen was little changed at 80.87
per dollar from 80.94.  China’s central bank said in a report yesterday that taming
inflation is its highest priority, signaling more tightening is
possible even after a manufacturing survey showed growth may be
moderating in  Asia ’s biggest economy.  ‘Absolute Ceiling’  “Stabilizing prices and managing inflation expectations
are critical,” the People’s Bank of China said in its first-
quarter monetary policy report. Bank reserve requirements have
no “absolute ceiling,” the central bank said, reiterating
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan’s comments of April 16.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding  Japan  Index of shares fell
for a second day, losing 1.4 percent. Gold declined 0.2 percent
and copper for three-month delivery fell 1.4 percent. Japan’s
financial markets were shut today for a holiday.  The yen has strengthened 0.3 percent in the past day, the
best performer tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes, on speculation that more interest-rate
increases in Asia will curb growth.  “Asian giants signal tightening needs may trump growth,”
 Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based senior currency strategist at
Scotia Capital, the investment banking unit of Bank of Nova
Scotia, wrote in a note today. “The dollar has retained a mild
tone of support as risk assets have taken a bit of a tumble.”  The yen typically strengthens in times of political,
financial and economic turmoil as Japan’s trade surplus means
the nation doesn’t have to rely on overseas lenders. The dollar
benefits as the world’s main reserve currency.  Kiwi Weakens  The so-called kiwi fell for a third day after Statistics
 New Zealand  said permanent migrant departures exceeded arrivals
by 530 in March, the most since a net 2,400 emigrants in
February 2001.  The exodus from New Zealand adds evidence to the
government’s outlook for little to no growth after a magnitude
6.3 earthquake wrecked houses and closed businesses in
Christchurch on Feb. 22. The Treasury Department said this week
gross domestic product was “flat to slightly negative” in the
first quarter and forecast 2011 growth will be about 1 percent.  “New Zealand’s data today hasn’t really inspired positive
sentiment toward the kiwi dollar with fairly weak migration
numbers,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. in Wellington.  New Zealand’s dollar slid 0.7 percent to 79.35 U.S. cents,
after falling to 79.17 cents, the lowest since April 20. It fell
0.8 percent to 64.14 yen.  South Korea ’s Won  The South Korean won weakened as the Financial Supervisory
Service looked into transactions conducted by the local branches
of Credit Agricole SA and ING Groep NV last week and planned to
scrutinize those of Woori Bank and Standard Chartered First Bank
Korea Ltd. this week. Additional probes may start in mid-May,
the FSS and Bank of Korea said yesterday, without naming any
targets.  “The expansion of the inspection over the banks’ currency
derivatives is damping demand for the won,” said Han Sung Min,
a currency dealer at Busan Bank in  Seoul .  The won weakened 0.5 percent to 1,074.10 per dollar today,
after slipping 0.3 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 