-- 
Youth Sports Can Help Inspire Peace, Jordan’s Prince Feisal Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-04T13:14:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-04/youth-sports-can-help-inspire-peace-jordan-s-prince-feisal-says.html
Encouraging young people from diverse
ethnic and religious backgrounds to play sports can “inspire”
peace, said Prince Feisal Al Hussein, the second-oldest son of
the late King Hussein of Jordan and brother of  King Abdullah . He
spoke in an interview at the inauguration of the Generations For
Peace Institute in Amman today.  On the program:  “The idea is to use sports as a tool to bring kids
together and really learn to look at each other as individuals
and as human beings and not that you come from a tribe, race or
religion. Through the power of sports and life lessons that we
can teach through sports hopefully we can teach tolerance,
understanding, respect for rule of law, and develop team work.  “We have had delegates from 46 countries over three
continents including the Arab world who have gone back to use
the power of sports to better their communities. Even with
recent issues we are facing within the region, sports is not
going to solve all the problems of the world but it can play a
part in helping build and unite communities.  “There has always been a need. There are not enough
initiatives that look at peace, that try to build unity and look
at bridging divides that exist within communities.”  “It’s very easy for countries, government, organizations
to sign a paper and say right we are at peace now. It’s very
difficult to make that felt on the ground.”  On financing:  “We have in the past had the support of the  Jordan  Olympic
Committee, some seed funding from Sheikh Hamdan Bin Zayed of the
UAE who loved the idea and wanted to get us off our feet.”  “We are also now looking to work on building up
sponsorship from other organizations and donors from the
corporate side. We are working with the UN and have support from
the  International Olympic Committee . We are getting more and
more stakeholders who are interested in what we are doing and
seeing what we are doing on the ground.”  On peace in the region:  “I am always an optimist. I think that peace will be
achieved. If we look at anybody anywhere in the world what do
they want to do? They want to be able to live normal lives, to
live in a secure environment in a society free of violence, free
of hatred, of conflict. That’s what we all want. I think the
more that we can do to make that a reality on the ground, slowly
we will make a difference. But peace doesn’t come easily and it
doesn’t come naturally unfortunately. Sport will not impose
peace but it will inspire it. We are not building peace for us
but for future generations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Amman at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  