-- 
‘Bunga Bunga’ Berlusconi Redefines Winning: Alexander Stille

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   S t i l l e
-- 
2011-04-05T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/-bunga-bunga-berlusconi-redefines-winning-commentary-by-alexander-stille.html
Italy’s Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is set to go on trial in Milan for partying with an
underage exotic dancer whose stage name is Ruby Heart Stealer
and for interfering with a police investigation after she was
arrested for theft. In separate trials, he is accused of  tax
fraud  and bribing a lawyer to lie to authorities.  His government coalition seemed on the brink of collapse
earlier this year when revelations surfaced about Ruby -- a
Moroccan, now 18, named Karima El Mahroug -- and wild “bunga
bunga” parties allegedly held in his residence north of Milan.
Women marched in demonstrations throughout Italy, calling for
his resignation.  So far, Berlusconi has survived these embarrassments,
stemmed defections from his ruling coalition and firmed up his
majority in the Italian parliament. His coalition’s approval
rating, though down 10 percentage points in the past several
months, stands at about 40 percent. That’s miraculous
considering all his legal woes and the country’s anemic economic
growth of 1.5 percent.  How has Berlusconi, 74, withstood scandals that would have
undone any other elected leader of a functioning democracy?  “Italians identify with me, I’m one of them. I was poor
and am self-made, I love soccer, life and, like any self-
respecting Italian, beautiful women,” Berlusconi said.  As the chief owner of a media and financial empire that
thrived in a corrupt political culture, Berlusconi has been
dogged by investigations since he first became prime minister
in 1994.  He’s in Charge  As a billionaire executive, Berlusconi prefers running the
show rather than accommodating the checks and balances of
democratic politics. He pushed through changes to  Italy ’s
electoral laws, allowing him to personally choose almost all the
people who serve in parliament within his own party.  Following his re-election to a third term as prime minister
in 2008 and victories in several criminal cases, Berlusconi’s
behavior became increasingly reckless. He began acting more like
an absolute monarch than an elected leader.  After he was caught attending the 18th birthday party of a
young Neapolitan woman, Berlusconi’s wife filed for divorce,
stating in a public letter that her husband “was not well,”
and that she “refused to stay with someone who frequented
minors.” More peccadilloes involving prostitutes followed. In
one case, the women were allegedly paid for by an individual
hoping to win government contracts.  Damage Control  The scandals themselves didn’t cause Berlusconi too much
damage; his response to them did. Tired of reading newspaper
accounts detailing wiretapped conversations between himself and
prostitutes and corrupt politicians, Berlusconi moved to
restrict the use of wiretaps to cases involving terrorism or the
Mafia and for brief periods of time.  A law-and-order faction of his conservative coalition
rebelled, risking his government’s downfall. Then the Ruby
episode hit, making the proposed wiretap law seem even more like
an attempt to cover up the prime minister’s affairs.  Berlusconi’s supporters in parliament, who hold a majority
of seats, are pushing a law to shorten the statute of
limitations. If passed, the new law would invalidate one of
cases in which he is the defendant.  Since many Italians believe that most politicians are
crooks, they don’t regard Berlusconi’s indictments in multiple
corruption cases as an indication that he is especially
unscrupulous. Instead, many believe he’s been singled out for
harsh treatment by the nation’s judiciary.  Disregard for Laws  Italy is a country of small businesses, 83 percent of which
are family-owned, most with fewer than five employees. Skirting
the nation’s high taxes and rigid  labor laws  is common practice.
Taxpayers who aren’t forced to pay withholding tax hide, on
average, 38 percent of their income, according to a recent
government study.  Many Italians see Berlusconi’s legal problems as
a magnified form of their own way of operating. He has
repeatedly passed tax amnesties, making  tax evasion  an entirely
rational move. Like Berlusconi, they are suspicious of and
hostile to Italy’s judiciary and the country’s political left,
which has made an issue of the need for tax compliance.  While Berlusconi’s behavior has alienated some Catholic
voters and has drawn criticism from some priests, the Church
hierarchy has avoided breaking with him. During his three terms
as prime minister, his coalition has given the Church much of
what it has wanted: aid for Catholic schools, tax breaks for
church-run businesses, a highly restrictive law on artificial
insemination, the defense of crucifixes in public places and a
strong presence of priests and nuns in public schools.  Controlling the Media  Berlusconi has sweeping influence in Italian television;
his companies’ channels and those operated by the government
reach almost 90 percent of the nation’s TV viewers. About 70
percent of Italians get almost all their news from television.
The evidence against Berlusconi in his multiple trials has
rarely been broadcast on Italian TV and Berlusconi is trying
hard to clamp down on the handful of talk shows that have
covered it.  One proposal -- couched as a way to promote diversity --
would make it illegal to cover the same topic more than once in
an eight-day period.  Rai , Italy’s state broadcasting system, has
given a prime-time program to the editor of a Berlusconi family-
owned newspaper and former government spokesman, who has used it
to rail against the “Taliban” and “puritans” persecuting
Berlusconi for his libertine lifestyle.  Promises, Promises  As one of the richest people in the country, and by far the
most powerful, Berlusconi is in a strong bargaining position
with the defectors in his center-right coalition. Promises of
future government positions and perhaps contracts with
one of his many companies has probably accounted for
parliamentarians returning to the fold.  Finally, Italian voters are skeptical of Berlusconi’s
political opponents. When the center-left governed the country
between 2006 and 2008, they were divided in a nine-party
coalition, whose members squabbled among themselves rather than
govern effectively. While the moderates and leftists make up 60
percent of the electorate, they have yet to unify around a
credible, coherent program.  Until they do, Berlusconi will stand as the dominant figure
in Italian public life.  ( Alexander Stille  is a professor of journalism at  Columbia
University  and author of “The Sack of  Rome : Media + Money +
Celebrity = Power = Silvio Berlusconi.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Alexander Stille at  AS786@columbia.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  