-- 
Abengoa Won't Borrow in 2011 After Total Liabilities Climb From 2008

-- B y   W i l l   W a d e
-- 
2011-04-05T16:07:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/abengoa-won-t-borrow-in-2011-after-debt-leaps-67-to-22-billion-from-2008.html
Abengoa SA (ABG) , the Spanish renewable-
energy company whose total liabilities rose 67 percent to 15.3
billion euros ($22 billion) since 2008, plans to tell investors
today it has no plans to borrow more this year.  The company has fully financed all of its projects under
construction worldwide, including three major U.S. plants, and
is now making plans for when those plants shift from a drain on
cash into revenue-generating assets, Chief Executive Officer
Manuel Sanchez said yesterday in an interview in  New York .  Abengoa had total corporate debt at the end of 2010 of 5
billion euros and non-recourse debt of 4.1 billion euros. With
cash and cash-equivalents of 3.9 billion euros, its net debt was
5.2 billion euros.  Sanchez will discuss his debt and revenue projections in
the Seville-based company’s first ever briefing for analysts in
the U.S. The comments are aimed at reassuring investors that
Abengoa’s plans will begin to pay off in the coming years.  “To look at the leverage of the company as a snapshot is
probably not the best representation of the company now,”
Sanchez said.  The company’s 8 1/2 percent bonds maturing in 2016 narrowed
their spread to similar German debt by 15 basis points to 529
basis points, the most in two weeks, as of 4:45 p.m. Madrid
time. The stock fell 2.5 percent to 22.84 euros, while the MSCI
Spain Small Cap index rose 1.5 percent.  Abengoa is building two solar-thermal plants in the U.S. It
received a $1.45 billion loan guarantee from the U.S. Energy
Department in December for its 250-megawatt Solana project in
 Arizona , and expects to begin construction in  California  on a
similar project. It plans to begin building this year a
cellulosic ethanol plant in  Kansas .  Debt and Ratings  Investment in the project led Abengoa to boost debt,
increasing its liabilities to 15.3 billion euros at the end of
2010, up 67 percent from 9.2 billion euros at the end of 2008.
Both Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and Fitch Ratings Ltd. rated
the company’s debt at junk level in September when Abengoa
received its first ratings.  Sanchez said that rating is unlikely to improve for about
three years. “I don’t expect to see it higher before that
because we are going through this phase of investment.”  John Quealy, an equity analyst at Canaccord Genuity Inc. in
 Boston , said Abengoa’s debt load is elevated because it is
nearing the end of its development cycle. “The debt load - you
have to pay attention to it, and watch it pretty closely,” he
said. “The numbers look high.”  He said much of Abengoa’s debt was taken on to fund
specific projects. Because those facilities will eventually
begin to generate long-term revenue, the borrowing “looks more
reasonable,” he said. “Abengoa has a 70-year history of
building  power plants  around the world. I think they know what
they’re doing.”  Buy Rating, Ebitda  Canaccord Genuity initiated coverage on Abengoa March 30
with a “buy” rating. It owns no shares in the company.  Sanchez also will detail to the U.S. analysts when  capital
investment  and Ebitda will even out. The measure of profit
gauges earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.  “We are not issuing any new debt at the corporate level in
2011, and in 2012 our corporate capital expenditure and the
Ebitda of the company will align,” Sanchez said. “We are
finalizing a phase of much larger capex than Ebitda, and we are
getting into a new phase where the capex is going to be below
the Ebitda of the company. So there’s going to be a natural
process of deleveraging.”  Over the same period, Ebitda increased more quickly than
the debt level, by 74 percent, to 942 million euros at the end
of last year.  Sanchez said the debt load is a normal part of Abengoa’s
business model -- investing in expensive projects that take
years to build. Over the next few years, borrowing will slow and
those project will begin to generate revenue, he said. By 2013,
he expects Ebitda to reach 1.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Wade in Bnef Summit at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  