-- 
ABN Amro Must Avoid Takeovers to Win EU Approval

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-04-06T13:44:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/abn-amro-must-avoid-acquisitions-to-win-restructuring-approval.html
(Corrects fourth paragraph of story published April 5 to
say Fortis insurance unit wasn’t merged with  ABN Amro .)  ABN Amro Group NV must refrain from
acquisitions for as long as five years in return for European
Union approval of a Dutch government rescue package of as much
as 5.45 billion euros ($7.7 billion).  The bailed-out lender must also avoid misusing aid to harm
private-banking competitors, the European Commission said in an
e-mailed statement today.  The three-year acquisitions ban, which starts today, is
“extendable to five years if the state still holds more than 50
percent in the bank,” Amelia Torres, a commission spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  The Netherlands took full control of ABN Amro Holding NV
assets when their owner Fortis ran out of short-term funding in
2008. The Dutch government merged the lender and Fortis’s Dutch
banking arm and plans to sell ABN shares as early as 2014,
preferably through a stock exchange listing. Fortis’s former
Dutch insurance unit, ASR Nederland NV, will be sold separately
by the Netherlands.  Arien Bikker, a spokesman for ABN Amro, said the bank was
“happy a decision has been reached” and couldn’t immediately
give “a more substantive reaction.”  The conditions set by the commission “shall effectively
ensure that the aid is used to make the ABN Amro Group viable in
the long term and prevent that the aid finances competition
distorting initiatives,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement.  The lender is required to abide by profit-margin targets in
private banking “where the bank has a strong position to avoid
that it uses the aid to undercut competitors,” the commission
said.  Dutch Recapitalizations  Regulators approved Dutch government recapitalizations of
as much as 5.45 billion euros for ABN Amro Holding NV and
Fortis’ Dutch units between October 2008 and January 2010, they
said in the statement.  After a 2008 bailout, ABN Amro Bank NV and Fortis Bank
Nederland NV were legally merged and started operating under the
ABN name on July 1.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Spain ’s
Banco Santander SA and Fortis bought ABN Amro in 2007 for about
72 billion euros in the world’s biggest banking takeover.  The Dutch government is keen to recoup taxpayers’ money
spent on the bailout and will start “concrete preparations” in
2013 for listing the state-owned lender, Finance Minister  Jan
Kees de Jager  wrote in a  letter  to parliament on Jan. 24. He
said there was “great confidence in the ability of the bank to
increase operational profit.”  ING Challenge  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch financial-services company,
is also subject to EU restrictions that prevent it undercutting
rivals on price for three years or until it repays Dutch
government aid. It challenged the aid conditions in the EU
courts.  The EU’s antitrust agency also banned Commerzbank AG and
RBS from acquiring any financial institutions. Commerzbank’s ban
lasts until April, 30 2012 or the aid has been repaid and RBS’s
ban ends on Dec. 31, 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 