-- 
African Agriculture Group May Get Islamic Development Bank Loan

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-04-05T14:56:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/african-agriculture-group-may-get-islamic-development-bank-loan.html
The Alliance for a Green Revolution
in  Africa , a promoter of small-scale farming on the continent,
is in talks with the  Islamic Development Bank  for an $80 million
loan, said Namanga Ngongi, the president of the organization.  The funds will be used to develop its projects on the
continent and add to financing it has raised from three other
lenders, Ngongi said in an interview yesterday from Dar es
Salaam, the commercial capital. The Islamic Development Bank
funds are expected to be secured this year, he said.  “Approval has already passed management level, and it’s now
the board remaining,” he said.  AGRA, as the Nairobi-based organization is known, is funded
by the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , the Rockefeller
Foundation and the U.K.’s Department for International
Development. Money raised by the group funds projects in 14
countries including seed breading, buying fertilizers, and
processing and marketing produce.  In 2009, Standard Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender,
said it would provide $100 million in loans over three years to
small-scale farmers under AGRA. The alliance has since secured
$50 million of funding from  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , Kenya’s largest
bank by market value, and $10 million from the  National
Microfinance Bank of Tanzania Ltd. , Ngongi said.  Africa needs to invest as much as $39 billion in
agriculture annually to enable the industry to grow at a rate of
6 percent, the amount needed to eliminate food insecurity on the
continent, he said. African governments currently allocate about
7.5 percent of their annual budgets to  food production .  Since its inception four year ago, AGRA has helped start
and support 42 seed companies expected to produce 40,000 metric
tons of seeds this year from 25,000 tons last year, according to
Ngongi.  “We expect that by 2018, 250,000 tons of seeds will be
produced, able to plant 10 million hectares,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 