-- 
Malaysia Stocks: Aliran, Coastal Contracts, MHC Plantations, WTK

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-04-05T09:27:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/malaysia-stocks-aliran-coastal-contracts-maa-wtk-holdings.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the 5 p.m. close in Kuala
Lumpur.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index fell 2.41, or 0.2
percent, to 1,553.07, snapping a five-day gain.  Aliran Ihsan Resources Bhd. (AIRB)  , a water treatment
operator, rose 1.2 percent to 1.67 ringgit, its biggest gain
since March 21. Aliran Ihsan won a 28.3 million-ringgit ($9.3
million) contract from Pengurusan Aset Air Bhd. to upgrade and
rehabilitate an existing plant in the southern state of Johor,
according to a company statement.        Coastal Contracts Bhd. (COCO)  , a shipbuilder, advanced
3.5 percent to a record 3.53 ringgit. The company has been in
“exploratory” talks with parties that have expressed interest
in a merger and acquisition, it said in a statement. Coastal
Contracts hasn’t decided on whether to sell a stake, it said.        MAA Holdings Bhd. (MAA)  , an insurer, fell 6.7 percent to
98 sen, snapping a two-day, 27 percent surge. The company said
it remains in discussions with Zurich Insurance Co. regarding
the sale of its stake in Malaysian Assurance Alliance Bhd. MAA
will make “the necessary announcements in due course on further
developments,” according to a stock exchange statement.        MHC Plantations Bhd. (MHC)  , an oil palm and rubber
planter, jumped 8.8 percent to a record 2.10 ringgit. The
company proposed a two-for-three bonus share issue, according to
a stock exchange filing today.        WTK Holdings Bhd. (WTKH)  , a timber producer, dropped 3.9
percent to 2 ringgit, the most since March 31. The stock was
reduced to “market perform” from “outperform” at RHB
Research Institute Sdn. The shares have “limited upside” after
rallying since the Japan earthquake on March 11 on expectations
reconstruction efforts will boost timber demand, according to a
RHB report dated today. WTK has climbed 59 percent since March
11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  