-- 
Alberta Oil Producers See Conflict in Compensation for Land

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-04-05T23:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/alberta-oil-producers-see-conflict-in-compensation-for-land.html
Companies extracting oil from
 Alberta ’s bitumen reserves expect “difficult” discussions with
the provincial government over compensation for drilling
opportunities lost because of impending land conservation rules.  “The fundamental question is on compensation,” said David
Pryce, the vice president of operations at the  Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers , in an interview. “We
haven’t had that conversation yet.”  Alberta, whose oil sands make it home to the world’s
second-largest crude reserves after  Saudi Arabia , today
presented a draft plan to protect 20,000 square kilometers
(7,722 square miles) of land, larger than the state of  New
Jersey , in the Lower Athabasca region. The producers group wants
the government to compensate companies for “lost
opportunities” as many have already claimed the oil reserves,
which has been incorporated into their market values, Pryce
said.  Surging  oil prices  amid political instability in the Middle
East have sped up development of Northern Alberta, where
production of oil is expected to double through 2020, the
government said today. Oil for May delivery touched $108.78 a
barrel yesterday, the highest intraday price since Sept. 24,
2008. Futures have risen 25 percent in the past year.  Both the province and the  petroleum industry  have been
criticized by environmental groups including Greenpeace and
 Canada ’s Pembina Institute for not doing enough to protect the
region’s water resources, ecosystems and animals such as caribou
and aquatic birds. Alberta’s Minister Mel Knight, who oversees
sustainable resource development, was not immediately available
to comment.  “We’re still concerned that this draft prioritizes
industry over science,” said Jennifer Grant, the oilsands
program director at the Pembina Institute, in an interview. Much
of the area slated to be protected is of “low priority” for
both the oil and gas industry as well as for biodiversity, she
said. “The tough decisions have been put off again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 