-- 
Aliran, Coastal, Esso, MAA, YTL Cement: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-04-05T00:04:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/aliran-coastal-esso-maa-ytl-cement-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index was little changed at
1,555.48.  Aliran Ihsan Resources Bhd. (AIRB)  : The water treatment
operator won a 28.3 million-ringgit ($9.4 million) contract from
Pengurusan Aset Air Bhd. to upgrade and rehabilitate an existing
plant in the southern Johor state, according to a company
statement. Aliran lost 0.6 percent to 1.65 ringgit.        Coastal Contracts Bhd. (COCO)  : The shipbuilder is
seeking to collaborate with a partner to diversify into the
offshore structure fabrication business, according to a company
statement. Coastal Contracts has been in “exploratory” talks
with parties which have expressed interest in a merger and
acquisition, it said. Coastal Contracts hasn’t decided on
whether to sell a stake, it said. The stock jumped 11 percent to
3.41 ringgit.    Esso Malaysia Bhd. (ESSO)  : The petroleum products
retailer said it’s unaware of any plans for Boustead Holdings
Bhd. (BOUS MK) and its parent to acquire a stake in itself. Esso
said this in a statement in response to a report in the Edge
weekly newspaper on the potential stake sale. Esso rose 4
percent to 4.20 ringgit.        MAA Holdings Bhd. (MAA)  : The insurer said the company
remains in discussions with Zurich Insurance Co. regarding the
sale of its stake in Malaysian Assurance Alliance Bhd. MAA will
make “the necessary announcements in due course on further
developments,” according to a stock exchange statement. MAA
rose 1.9 percent to 1.05 ringgit before its shares were halted.       Star Publications (Malaysia) Bhd. (STAR MK): The newspaper
publisher plans to sell as much as 750 million ringgit of
commercial papers to help fund investments and capital
expenditure, according to a company statement. Star also plans
to sell another 750 million ringgit in medium-term notes, it
said. The stock slid 0.6 percent to 3.48 ringgit.        YTL Cement Bhd. (YTLC)  : The cement producer scrapped a
$200 million exchangeable bond sale after “taking into
consideration its current operational requirements and funding
options,” according to a company statement. YTL Cement lost 0.4
percent to 4.85 ringgit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  