-- 
Manchester United Prepared to Fight Two-Game Ban on Wayne Rooney: Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-04-05T09:44:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/manchester-united-prepared-to-fight-two-game-ban-on-wayne-rooney-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Rooney Dispute  Manchester United  manager Alex Ferguson is ready to fight
the two-game ban that  Wayne Rooney  is facing for cursing into a
television camera,  the Sun  reported.  United is set to accept the charge that Rooney used
offensive language at West Ham last weekend, but will challenge
the punishment in hopes of reducing it to one game.  A one-match ban would mean Rooney wouldn’t play at home
against Fulham this weekend, but could play in the F.A. Cup
semifinal against Manchester City. An unsuccessful appeal could
mean a three-game suspension, including a match against
Newcastle.  Bale Record?  Tottenham manager Harry Redknapp suggested a world-record
transfer fee of 80 million pounds ($130 million) would be needed
for him to sell Gareth Bale,  the Guardian  reported.  Bale has been declared fit to play at Real Madrid tonight
in a Champions League quarterfinal match after hamstring
trouble, and the hosts are among the teams interested in the
winger, the newspaper added. He’s expressed an interest in
playing abroad at some stage in his career.  Real Madrid manager  Jose Mourinho  backed Redknapp to be the
next England coach,  the Mirror  reported.  “He is a good manager for any team, including a national
team,” Mourinho said.  “I think there are no limits for him.
Give him a team, a national team or a club team, and he is ready
for anything.”  AC Milan Targets Cahill  AC Milan is interested in signing Bolton defender Gary Cahill, the  Daily Mail  reported. The Italian team is looking for
a replacement for Alessandro Nesta, 35, who’s expected to quit
after this season.  Tottenham,  Aston Villa  and Liverpool are among other clubs
monitoring Cahill, the Mail said.  Eboue for Spurs?  Emmanuel Eboue may follow  William Gallas  by switching from
Arsenal to Tottenham, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The 27-year-old Ivory Coast international is highly rated
by Tottenham manager Redknapp, who wants to bring in a new
right-back in the off-season, the newspaper added.  Adam Shortlisted  Blackpool midfielder  Charlie Adam ’s “brilliant” first
season in the Premier League has been recognized by his peers,
who voted him on to a six-man shortlist for the Professional
Footballers’ Association Player of the Year award,  the Mail 
reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 