-- 
Manet’s Nudes, Absinthe Fans, Rebels Gather in Paris: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-04-05T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/manet-s-nudes-absinthe-drinker-rebels-gather-in-paris-jorg-von-uthmann.html
In a contest for the title of most
reviled artist, Edouard Manet would be well placed to win.  It was only after his death of tertiary syphilis at age 51,
in 1883, that he was recognized as one of the great masters of
the 19th century. Placing him in the history of art, however, is
not an easy task.  The Impressionists regarded him as their leader and were
disappointed when he refused to participate in their
exhibitions. Degas called him a traitor.  In 1910, the first Post-Impressionist show in  London ,
organized by Roger Fry, treated him as the forerunner of
Cezanne, Gauguin and  Van Gogh . Today, we tend to see him as the
man who invented modernity.  That’s, in fact, the subtitle of a huge exhibition at the
 Musee d’Orsay  in Paris. Nonetheless, the show firmly embeds
Manet in the tradition of French painting, surrounding his works
with some by his more conventional colleagues. The Manichaean
way of separating academic art and avant-garde, we are told by
the curators, makes no sense.  In the first room, 19 works by Manet are confronted with
nine by his teacher Thomas Couture. Traditionally, Manet’s six
years of apprenticeship are dismissed as of no great
consequence, and it’s true the teacher was horrified by the
pupil’s “Absinthe Drinker,” the first of his many paintings
rejected by the Salon. It’s on display here as an etching.  Absinthe Painter  “There’s only one absinthe drinker,” Couture said, “and
that’s the man who painted this idiotic picture.”  The second room, labeled “Le Moment Baudelaire,” reminds
us of Manet’s close relationship with the avant-garde poet who
became one of his most ardent defenders.  Here are the two canvases whose provocative nudes earned
Manet the notoriety of an enfant terrible. “Le Dejeuner sur
l’Herbe,” exhibited in 1863 at the Salon des Refuses, caused a
scandal and led to the closing of the exhibition. Two years
later, “Olympia” was admitted to the Salon where it duly
shocked the bien-pensants.  With some 140 works by Manet, the show is smaller than the
1983 retrospective, the last in Paris, which then traveled to
the  Metropolitan Museum  in  New York . Still, with a few
exceptions such as “A Bar at the Folies-Bergere” from the
 Courtauld Institute , all the masterpieces are here.  The presentation isn’t strictly chronological. The works
are grouped around nine themes, some more convincing than
others. One is the influence of Spanish painters on Manet’s art.
The most obvious link is the extensive use of black.  Radical Politics  “The Execution of Maximilian,” though inspired by Goya,
appears only in the last section, which has the misleading title
“End of History?” What it means is that Manet, unlike most of
the Impressionists, also was a political observer and an astute
witness of his times.  Although born into the haute bourgeoisie -- his father was
a high-placed official at the Ministry of Justice, his mother
the daughter of a diplomat -- he sympathized with the
insurrection of the 1871 Commune.  There are several lithographs of the street battles during
the “Semaine Sanglante,” or Bloody Week, in the show. A
watercolor marks the amnesty of the Communards, many of whom had
been sent to  New Caledonia .  The last two canvases, dated 1881, depict the dramatic
escape of Henri Rochefort, a radical journalist, from that penal
colony. It was a feat that thrilled the country as much as the
escape of the Count of Monte-Cristo from the dungeons of the
Chateau d’If had fascinated an earlier generation.  “Manet, the Man Who Invented Modernity,” which is
supported by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, runs through July 3.
Information:  http://www.musee-orsay.fr  or +33-1-4049-4814.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 