-- 
Mango Farmers, Fisherman Fight India Nuclear Plant

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n ,   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 
2011-04-06T03:37:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/mango-farmers-invoke-japan-to-fight-top-india-nuclear-plant.html
The temple for the Hindu monkey god
Hanuman, near Jaitapur on the western coast of  India , seems a
long way from Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi, where the worst
nuclear disaster since Chernobyl continues to unfold.  For the crowd gathering amid the scent of incense and
prayer lamps, the crisis is looming on their doorstep. Less than
three miles away, the Indian government plans to build what
would be the world’s largest nuclear-power plant and the
villagers, fearing a repeat of the Japanese catastrophe, are
here to protest.  Opposition to the development, to be built with Paris-based
 Areva SA (CEI) , pits local fishermen and farmers, growers of the
world’s  most expensive  mangoes, against Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government as India struggles to bridge a power
shortfall to maintain the second-fastest rate of growth among
major economies. The site would generate double the power
produced at Fukushima, even as that crisis prompts nations such
as  Germany  to scale back their nuclear plans.  “After Japan, our politicians should realize that nuclear
plants are not safe,” said Shobha Chavan, 40, a doctor and
housewife in the nearby town of  Ratnagiri . “In this region,
earthquakes have happened. Businessmen and politicians want to
build the plant because they want to build their bank
balances.”  Giant Wave  Even before the 9-magnitude temblor struck Japan on March
11, sending a giant wave crashing into Fukushima, locals
campaigned to stop the 9,900-megawatt development, arguing that
hot water discharge posed a risk to fish stocks, while a
security cordon would block access to the sea. The prawns,
mackerels and king fish from the sea off Jaitapur are exported
to markets from  Europe  to Thailand and Japan.  Now, protesters say Jaitapur could suffer the same fate as
Fukushima, where Tokyo Electric Power Co. is struggling to
contain radiation leaks after a partial meltdown. The planned
complex sits in an area of seismic activity and state-owned
 Nuclear Power Corp. of India , India’s monopoly atomic generator,
is underplaying the risk, according to Janhit Seva Samiti, a
movement comprising hundreds of locals opposed to the plans.  “Earlier, government officials used to say: ‘Look at
Japan. It has so many nuclear plants in earthquake-prone areas
and there have been no accidents,’” said Praveen Gavankar, a
57-year-old Alphonso mango grower who is also one of the leaders
of the movement. “Now we are saying: See, we told you it was
dangerous.” A box of a dozen Alphonsos can  cost  as much as $100
in the U.S.  Suffered Shocks  The area around Jaitapur, 420 kilometers (262 miles) south
of Mumbai, is ranked as level three in India’s five-step scale
of seismic risk, with five being the most severe, according to
Nuclear Power Corp., or NPCIL. Konkan Bachao Samiti, another
local group opposing the project, provided Bloomberg News with
data showing the site is in a level four area. The area around
Jaitapur suffered 40 shocks of magnitude 4 or higher from 1996
to 2005, the data show.  A. Sundaramoorthy, director general of the Geological
Survey of India in Kolkata, was not available for comment after
five calls to his office.  Fault Lines  A 1945  shock  along the zone where the Arabian plate  slides 
under the Eurasian plate sent a 2-meter (6.6-foot) high wave
slamming into Mumbai, according to a December 2008  paper  in the
journal Current Science. The 800-kilometer fault, called the
Makran subduction zone, could host “a very large earthquake,
certainly as big as the one that occurred in Japan recently,”
said  Phil Cummins , professor of geology at the  Australian
National University .  Still, there are no active fault lines within a 30-
kilometer (18.6-mile) radius of the Jaitapur site, according to
a government report last year. That’s more than the 5-kilometer
limit stipulated by India’s  Atomic Energy Regulatory Board .
Furthermore, the site sits on average 24.5 meters above mean  sea
level , reducing the tsunami risk, NPCIL say.  The company also claims water discharged into the sea will
be at most about 5 degrees Celsius warmer and confined to an
area of 0.28 square kilometers. There have been no adverse
effects on marine life at existing coastal nuclear power sites,
according to NPCIL.  Revisit Plans  Nevertheless, the company will “revisit” its plans after
it gets more information from Japan, according to Chairman
Shreyans Kumar Jain.  Areva didn’t immediately respond to requests to comment.
The reactors at Fukushima Dai-Ichi were built by  General
Electric Co. (GE) ,  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)   The Jaitapur plant would be the first to be built in India
after the U.S. helped lift a more than three-decade ban on the
South Asian nation trading in atomic equipment and fuel in 2008.
The project, consisting of six 1,650-megawatt Areva reactors,
will be built in phases, with the first set of two reactors
scheduled to be  completed  in 2018, NPCIL said last year.  The company has capacity of 4,780 megawatts, less than 3
percent of India’s total. The government needs to boost
electricity generation to plug a 10 percent peak shortfall and
meet a target of providing power to all its 1.2 billion people.
India’s $1.3 trillion economy may grow as much as 9.25 percent
this financial year, the government forecast in February.  Legal Challenge  NPCIL bought 938 hectares of land from four villages for
the project, about three times the size of  New York ’s Central
Park. Still, the diggers can’t move in until compensation is
agreed. Out of about 2,000 landowners offered money, just 154
accepted, according to  Madhukar Gaikwad , the top administrative
official of Ratnagiri district.  Protesters also say they are preparing a fresh legal
challenge after a 2009 attempt to block the plan was  dismissed 
by the Bombay High Court. If they can show the area is in a
seismic zone and the project “would not serve the public
purpose,” they can ask the court to stall the project, said
Narinder Singh Vashisht, a senior Delhi High Court lawyer who
specializes in real estate law.  “They can take advantage of the fallout of the Fukushima
disaster as well,” he said.  Mushroom Clouds  Meanwhile, the protests continue. Colorful posters with
images of mushroom clouds and warnings of catastrophes worse
than those in  Japan  are plastered at intersections and on trees
and shop fronts in the area. Security has been beefed up in the
villages and police vans, each with 30 or so khaki-clad
officers, are a common sight.  Two rallies near Jaitapur turned violent and 39 people were
arrested, according to local inspector Dilip Boraste. All have
since been released on bail, he said.  Protesters claim they are being targeted by the Maharashtra
state government, headed by Chief Minister  Prithviraj Chavan .
Gangadhar Mahadeo, 41, a farmer who claims to own 170 acres of
land including five which are being acquired by NPCIL, said he
was arrested and put in jail for nine days for protesting. He’s
now on bail.  “I am ready to go to jail for a year if required but we
won’t allow the plant to come up here,” he said.  Chavan didn’t return a call made to his mobile phone. His
personal assistant Satish Lalit said the chief minister was
unavailable because he was attending the state assembly.  Uddhav Thackeray, leader of opposition party  Shiv Sena , has
declared his support for the protesters. He’s scheduled to visit
Jaitapur on April 9, Gavankar said.  Back at Hanuman’s temple, the crowd listens to the latest
news from Fukushima as Milind Desai, the village doctor, reads
aloud from a newspaper. A group of policemen watches, one
recording proceedings on a video camera.  Then, a group of young folk singers with hand-held drums,
cymbals and tambourines and dressed in brightly colored
traditional costumes get to their feet. They perform a song
dedicated to stopping the nuclear plant.  “No one can predict an earthquake,” says Desai. “Nature
will do what it wants and the consequences will be the same for
everyone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Archana Chaudhary in Mumbai at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  