-- 
Apple's Weight in Nasdaq-100 to Be Reduced as Microsoft, Cisco Are Raised

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-04-05T10:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/apple-s-weight-in-nasdaq-100-to-be-reduced-as-microsoft-cisco-are-raised.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s weighting in the
Nasdaq-100 Index was cut as the technology-heavy equity gauge
had its first major reshuffle since 1998 to better reflect
companies’ market value. The maker of the iPhone fell in pre-
market trading.  Apple’s representation will be reduced to 12.33 percent of
the index on May 2, from 20.49 percent,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) 
said in a  slide show  on its website today, after previous rules
caused its proportion in the gauge to grow disproportionately.
The weightings of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  will
more than double.  Apple’s weighting in the Nasdaq gauge is currently more
than six times that of the second-biggest constituent, Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft, while its market value is only 46
percent bigger, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rules
that adjusted members relative to their respective position in
the index caused stocks to move out “of alignment in relation
to their actual market capitalizations,” the presentation said.  “This would probably affect international funds, given
that Apple is such a big company globally,” said  Tim Schroeders , a Melbourne-based money manager at Pengana Capital
Ltd., which manages about $1 billion. “Passive funds in
particular will be forced to re-weight into those stocks that
have had increases in weightings, and in the short term we will
see some selling pressure on Apple.”  Apple Falls  Apple, which is based in Cupertino, California, dropped 3.1
percent to $330.50 at 6:37 a.m. in pre-market New York trading.
Futures on the Nasdaq-100 expiring in June slid 0.8 percent.  Apple has become the world’s most valuable technology
company as consumers snap up gadgets including the iPhone and
the iPad tablet computer. While analysts estimate the company
can keep posting sales growth of more than 50 percent in the
next two years, founder  Steve Jobs ’s medical leave since January
as he battles a rare form of cancer has raised concern future
products may lack the edge of previous offers.  The market capitalization of Apple has jumped to $332
billion from $2.1 billion in 1998, according to Bloomberg data.
Alan Hely, a spokesman for Apple in  London , declined to comment
when contacted by Bloomberg News today.  The changes will make the Nasdaq-100 a more attractive
measure of U.S. equities, according to Jacques Porta, who helps
oversee about $400 million in stocks at Ofi Patrimoine in Paris.  ‘No Diversification’  “It’s no good to have your fund benchmarked to an index
where so much is concentrated” in one stock, he said. “You
cannot manage risk if there is no diversification, especially if
volatility increases.”  The weighting for Microsoft, which has a market value of
$214.7 billion, will be increased to 8.32 percent, the Nasdaq
slides showed. Cisco, the  San Jose , California-based supplier of
data networking products, will be boosted to 3.66 percent from
1.56 percent.  Microsoft shares climbed 2.3 percent to $26.15 in early New
York trading. Cisco advanced 1.1 percent to $17.24.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s representation in the Nasdaq-100 will be
lifted to 6.68 percent from 3.32 percent, while  Intel Corp. (INTC)  will
be raised to 4.2 percent from 1.75 percent, the presentation
said. Intel gained 0.7 percent to $19.63 in pre-market trading
while Oracle and was little changed in  Europe .  In total, 82 of the 100 index securities will drop in
weight, the presentation said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 