-- 
Harel Freres of Mauritius Expects 5% This Year Growth on Energy, Commerce

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-04-05T05:52:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/harel-freres-of-mauritius-expects-5-this-year-growth-on-energy-commerce.html
Harel Freres Ltd. (HFRERES) , Mauritius’s
biggest diversified company by market value, expects to boost
revenue 5 percent this year as increased sales from its energy
and commerce units make up for lower sugar production.  The company’s sugar output will probably fall to 64,000
metric tons this year from 74,100 tons because of a drought that
affected cane growth, Henri Harel, its chief financial officer,
said in an interview on April 1 in  Port Louis , the capital. It
has capacity to increase sales from its power station by more
than 20 percent and its alcohol and cosmetics unit is estimated
to grow revenue 15 percent, he said.  “It shows that the company is really diversified away from
sugar,” Harel said. “A conservative 5 percent growth is
achievable.”  Belle-Vue Milling Ltd., Harel Freres’s sugar unit, is the
Indian Ocean island nation’s biggest producer of specialty
sugars, owning about 7,000 hectares of land. Its power station
accounts for about 16 percent of the country’s annual
electricity needs, and makes up 36 percent of the group’s
revenue. It bought a 5 percent stake in  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s
Orange Madagascar mobile-phone unit in May 2010, and is the
biggest shareholder in Swan Insurance Ltd., the country’s second
biggest insurer by market value.  Harel Freres is looking to expand its alcohol and cosmetics
business to other markets in the region, Harel said.  “We are prospecting the regional market with opening of
subsidiaries in Madagascar and Seychelles under the East Indies
label,” he said.  The group is also planning new property developments in the
northern region of the country, Harel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  