-- 
Mark Hurd Appeals Letter Release to Delaware Supreme Court

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-04-05T15:41:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/mark-hurd-appeals-hewlett-packard-letter-release-to-delaware-supreme-court.html
Mark Hurd  appealed a judge’s
decision that Hewlett-Packard Co. must release most of a letter
about the ex-chairman’s involvement with contractor Jodie
Fisher, the relationship that led to his departure from the
company.  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons Jr. on March
17 ordered that a redacted, public version of the letter be
filed within 10 days, and the pending appeal delayed that
release. Parsons on March 28 modified his earlier order, saying
that Hewlett-Packard should release the letter on the 10th day
following the filing of a notice of appeal unless he or the
Delaware  Supreme Court  issues a stay.  The state high court today ordered Hurd’s lawyers to submit
their opening brief on the appeal by May 19. It will consider
the case later, according to an electronic court filing.  The letter, which had been sent by lawyer Gloria Allred on
Fisher’s behalf, is part of a case filed by HP shareholder
Ernesto Espinoza seeking access to company books and records.
The letter contains accusations of sexual harassment and details
of Hurd’s alleged advances toward Fisher and her rejection of
them, according to Parsons’s ruling.  Hurd, now co-president of software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,
resigned from  Palo Alto , California-based HP in August after a
company investigation determined he violated its standards of
business conduct. HP said it didn’t find that Hurd had violated
the company’s sexual-harassment policy.  Letter’s Contents  Hurd contends the letter, sent by Allred in an attempt to
arrange private mediation with Fisher, is personal. It includes
allegations that Hurd misused corporate funds to “wine and dine
Fisher” and leaked potential non-public information about the
company to her, Parsons said in his ruling.  Espinoza, the plaintiff, is seeking access to the letter
and an internal report prepared for the HP board by lawyers at
Covington & Burling LLP as part of his investigation into
possible waste by directors. Parsons on March 25 denied Espinoza
access to the report.  The board wrongly granted Hurd a severance package valued
at as much as $40 million rather than terminate him for cause
without any money, lawyers for Espinoza said in court papers.  “We have no comment” on the latest appeal, said Hewlett-
Packard spokeswoman  Mylene Mangalindan  in an e-mailed message
today.  The Chancery case is Espinoza v.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
CA6000, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The appeal is Hurd
v. Spinoza, 167, 2001, Delaware Supreme Court (Dover).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 