-- 
Asian Currencies Snap Five-Day Rally on Concern Central Banks to Intervene

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-04-05T08:37:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/asian-currencies-snap-five-day-rally-on-concern-central-banks-to-intervene.html
Asian currencies declined, led by
 South Korea ’s won and the Philippine peso, on concern central
banks will intervene to slow appreciation that might threaten
export growth.  The won retreated from its strongest level since September
2008 and Indonesia’s rupiah dropped from an almost four-year
high. Regional currencies snapped a five-day rally as the Dollar
Index, which tracks the greenback against the currencies of six
major U.S. trading partners, rose the most in more than a week
after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said policy
makers need to monitor inflation expectations “extremely
closely.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies, dropped 0.1 percent to
117.62 as of 4:10 p.m. in Hong Kong. The won slid 0.3 percent to
1,090.15 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The peso declined 0.1 percent to 43.36, according to prices from
inter-dealer broker Tullett Prebon Plc.  “There is concern some Asian central banks will intervene,
halting recent gains,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a global economist
at Mizuho Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “The dollar gets support
from Bernanke’s comment, leading to a correction in Asian
currencies.”  Converting Dividends  The won slid for the first time in six days after crude-oil
futures in  New York  rose to the highest level in more than 30
months yesterday.  “Traders are being cautious on concerns that the
authorities may step in to curb the won from rising,” said Ko
Kyu Youn, a currency dealer at Korea Exchange Bank in  Seoul .
“Foreign stock investors may buy dollars to repatriate their
dividend earnings, while  oil prices  are rising and global stocks
are mixed.”  The peso declined as inflation in March was less than
analysts estimated, reducing the need for another increase in
the policy rate. Consumer prices rose 4.3 percent from a year
earlier, matching the gain in February, the  National Statistics
Office  said today. The median forecast of 16 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for an increase of 4.6 percent.  “The need to raise rates by a significant amount may not
be there,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice president and
treasurer at Security Bank Corp. in Manila. “The feeling that
there won’t be much pressure for higher  interest rates  will be
negative for the peso.”  Short-Term Inflows  The Philippine central bank raised the rate paid to lenders
for overnight deposits by a quarter of a percentage point to
4.25 percent on March 24, the first increase since August 2008.  The ringgit retreated from near a 13-year high. So-called
hot-money, or short-term, inflows could undermine the economic
recovery and have an adverse impact on price stability and
growth, Malaysia’s central bank said in its annual report on
March 23. The currency traded at 3.0265 per dollar from 3.0255
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are going to see the ringgit sticking to current
levels for a while,” said Nik M. Khairul, a treasury dealer at
Asian Finance Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “While the ringgit
appreciation trend is still intact, authorities don’t want to
see too much hot money.”  Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar and the rupiah were both
little changed against the greenback at S$1.2608 and 8,664,
respectively. The baht gained 0.1 percent to 30.21. Onshore
financial markets were closed in  China , Taiwan and  Hong Kong  for
a holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  