-- 
Asian Stocks Drop as Tepco Dumps Radioactive Water in Ocean; Toyota Falls

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-04-05T07:33:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/asian-stocks-decline-led-by-semiconductor-stocks-after-drop-in-chip-sales.html
Asian stocks dropped, with the
regional benchmark index retreating from a three-week high,
after  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. began dumping radioactive water
from its crippled nuclear plant and semiconductor stocks fell.  Tokyo Electric, also known as Tepco, slumped 18 percent,
headed for its lowest close in almost 60 years. Elpida Memory
Inc., the world’s No. 3 maker of computer-memory chips, sank 5.8
percent after a report showed global chip sales fell.  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  decreased 3.1 percent after the Associated Press
reported the world’s biggest carmaker may have to shutter its
factories in North America due to parts shortages. Bourse
operator  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  surged after  Australia ’s
treasurer said he was inclined to reject a takeover bid for ASX
Ltd, the southern continent’s No. 1 securities exchange company.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.7 percent to 135.17
as of 4:20 p.m. in Tokyo, with almost three stocks declining for
each that gained.  Dumping radioactive water “is a big problem and it’s
really difficult to see what will happen next. There is nothing
positive coming out from that,” said Shintaro Takeuchi, who
helps manage about $20 billion at Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire
Insurance Co. “The negative impact on companies will continue
until the first half of this fiscal year, and that would be the
major factor to depress the equity market or the industry.”  The Asia Pacific index rose for the past two weeks as
Japanese companies began resuming production after the nation’s
worst earthquake on record and as Chinese firms posted profits
that beat analyst estimates.  Radioactive Water  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average dropped 1.1 percent, the
most among Asia-Pacific benchmark indexes. Tepco slumped 18
percent to 362 yen in Tokyo as it began dumping radioactive
water from its crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station into
the sea to give it room to store more highly contaminated water.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index dropped 1 percent and
 India ’s Sensitive Index dropped 0.9 percent. Markets in  China ,
 Hong Kong  and  Taiwan  are closed for a holiday.  South Korea ’s
Kospi Index gained 0.7 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.3 percent. The
nation’s central bank left its benchmark interest rate at the
highest level in the developed world as natural disasters
threaten to disrupt economic growth and a rising currency
tempers inflation.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index climbed 0.3 percent, completing
its 15th straight day of advance. That the longest streak of
consecutive gains since 2001, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.2 percent
today. The index closed little changed yesterday, with most
stocks rising as optimism about takeovers outweighed a drop in
technology shares after the Semiconductor Industry Association
said the three-month average for global chip sales was $25.5
billion in February, down 1.1 percent from January.  Biggest Decline  Elpida Memory sank 4.2 percent to 1,068 yen in Japanese
trading.  Tokyo Electron Ltd. (8035) , the world’s second-largest maker
of semiconductor equipment, declined 2.8 percent to 4,510 yen.  Samsung Techwin Co., a South Korean maker of security
cameras, dropped 2.4 percent to 83,000 won after Woori
Investment & Securities Co. cut its share-price estimate, saying
the company’s first-quarter earnings will fall short of
analysts’ expectations.  A gauge of consumer discretionary companies, which includes
carmakers and electronics manufacturers, posted the second-
biggest decline among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index, all of which fell.  Toyota declined 3.1 percent to 3,235 yen in Tokyo. The
company may temporarily shutter factories in North America
because component supplies are running low after production in
Japan was halted in the aftermath of the earthquake, the
 Associated Press  reported, citing Toyota spokesman Mike Goss.  Alliance, Extract  Alliance Global Group Inc., owner of the McDonald’s
franchise in the  Philippines , slumped 6 percent to 11.28 pesos.
Alliance and its real-estate unit Megaworld Corp. sold 872
million shares of the company at 11.16 pesos each through a
private placement, a stock-exchange filing showed. That’s a 7
percent discount to yesterday’s closing price.  Among stocks that advanced, Singapore Exchange jumped 5
percent to S$8.41. Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board
advised the country’s treasurer, Wayne Swan, that the
Singaporean bourse’s bid for ASX wasn’t in the national interest.
ASX shares fell 3.3 percent to A$33.70 at the close of trading
in Sydney.  Extract Resources Ltd., a uranium producer partly owned by
Rio Tinto Group, climbed 3.1 percent to A$8.23 in Sydney. The
company said it is talking to potential customers and has
“identified several possible strategic contracting
opportunities” for a $1.7 billion project in  Namibia .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.2 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 6 percent by the  S&P
500  and 1.6 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 13.2 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.7 times for the S&P 500 and 11.3 times
for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 