-- 
Massachusetts Pension Board Cuts Middleman Out of Hedge-Fund Investments

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-04-05T18:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/massachusetts-state-pension-plan-cuts-middleman-in-hedge-fund-investments.html
The  Massachusetts  state pension
fund, which oversees $49.5 billion of assets, will begin
bypassing middlemen by directly investing as much as $500
million in hedge funds.  The board that oversees the fund, known as the
 Massachusetts Pensions Reserves Investment Trust , voted today to
hire Cliffwater LLC to advise it as it shifts money out of the
$3.8 billion it has placed in hedge fund of funds, which charge
an additional management fee. Officials are hoping to lower the
cost of investing in the alternative-asset class and improve
performance, according to Steven Grossman, the state treasurer
who oversees the board.  “We like to have a direct relationship” with our
managers, said Grossman, a Democrat. “We don’t necessarily need
the middleman.”  Massachusetts is seeking to recover after the plan lost 24
percent in the 12 months ended June 30, 2009, following the
global credit crisis. The fund gained 12.8 percent in fiscal
2010 and is up another 18.65 percent in the eight months through
February this year, according to a report presented to the board
today.  The state currently pays an additional fee that averages 84
basis points, or 0.84 percentage point, to invest in  hedge funds 
through a middleman, according to Grossman. The pension plan
uses five  hedge fund  companies: New York-based Arden Asset
Management Inc.; Chicago-based Grosvenor Capital Management
Management Holdings LLP; Stamford, Connecticut-based K2 Advisors
LLC; Irvine, California-based Pacific Alternative Asset
Management Co.; and Washington-based The Rock Creek Group.  Cliffwater, which is based in  Marina del Rey ,  California ,
will charge a base fee of $500,000 to help find and monitor an
initial direct investment of $500 million in hedge funds, which
are private, largely unregulated pools of capital whose managers
participate substantially in profits from investments.
Massachusetts joins states such as  New Jersey  in both directly
investing in hedge funds and also using funds of funds, said
Stephen Nesbitt, Cliffwater’s chief executive officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  