-- 
Singapore Exchange's $7.9 Billion Takeover of ASX Is on Brink of Collapse

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-04-05T10:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/asx-says-singapore-exchange-told-australia-disposed-to-reject-takeover-bid.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s A$7.6
billion ($7.9 billion) bid for bourse operator  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  is on
the brink of collapse after Australia said the takeover was not
in the national interest.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said the Foreign Investment
Review Board advised him against  Singapore Exchange ’s bid, and
that he had “serious concerns” about the proposal. Chief
Executive Magnus Bocker said the Singapore bourse isn’t
considering changes to the bid structure.  “Subject to further consideration, I intended to accept
the unanimous FIRB advice that the takeover would not be in the
national interest,” Swan said in a statement. “I am still open
to further representations or information from the parties
before coming to a final decision.”  Singapore Exchange offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 in a cash
and share deal then valued at A$8.4 billion, a 42 percent
premium to ASX’s share price. The bid was opposed by several
Australian parliamentarians. Pressure on rival exchanges to
expand increased in February when Europe’s  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) 
and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  agreed to merge, and after London Stock
Exchange Group Plc said it would buy Canada’s  TMX Group Inc. (X)   National Interest  It is the first proposed foreign merger to be opposed on
national interest grounds in Australia since former treasurer
Peter Costello blocked a $3.2 billion bid by Royal Dutch Shell
Plc in 2001 to take control of Woodside Petroleum Ltd. A final
ruling on the bourse takeover is expected within days, said
Singapore Exchange’s Bocker.  ASX shares dropped 3.3 percent after the announcement today,
while Singapore Exchange’s shares jumped as much as 6.5 percent.  “I don’t think SGX or ASX will sit where they are and
accept it,” said  Angus Gluskie , who helps manage $350 million
at White Funds Management Pty in Sydney. “It’s one thing for
the government to say it’s not in the national interest, but
they’ve got to look at it from the company’s position where
they’re saying it’s a practical necessity for them to continue
operating in a competitive manner.”  Exchange Consolidation  Singapore Exchange offered on Feb. 15 to give more board
seats to Australians in a concession aimed at overcoming
opposition from lawmakers in Canberra to the deal, which won
approval from Australia’s competition regulator on Dec. 15.  The Singapore bourse today said it would continue to pursue
organic and other strategic growth opportunities, including
further talks with ASX on other forms of cooperation. ASX
spokesman Matthew Gibbs said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News
today that his company would keep looking at merger
opportunities.  “Bearing in mind that FIRB have communicated with SGX, not
ASX, our position is that we continue to believe in the
importance of participating in exchange consolidation, and we’ll
continue to look at opportunities there, including further
dialogue with SGX,” Gibbs said.  ‘Compelling Logic’  “The compelling business logic is for fewer platforms
around the world,” said Shaun Manuell, who helps manage A$750
million in Australian stocks at Equity Trustees in  Melbourne .
“ASX is going to have to sit down with the government and have
a clear understanding of the basis by which they would allow
global M&A activity to occur.”  Singapore Exchange’s bid valued ASX at 19.5 times earnings
before interest and taxes, almost twice as much as the 10.4
times involved in  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ’s bid for TMX
Group, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That also compares with
11.2 times offered by Deutsche Boerse AG for NYSE Euronext.  ASX shares fell 3.3 percent to A$33.70 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading in Sydney today, and Singapore Exchange jumped
as much as 6.5 percent to S$8.53 following Swan’s comments.  Shareholders Unhappy  “SGX was de-rated when it announced the deal as
shareholders didn’t really like that they were offering a very a
high premium,” said Anand Pathmakanthan, an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Singapore. “It is only logical that with the
deal effectively called off, the share price should re-rate.”  The  Foreign Investment Review Board  is a unit within
 Australia ’s Treasury Department and gives advice to the
treasurer on whether proposals should be approved. The treasurer
then makes a decision and announces it, often without providing
details on the board’s recommendations.  The FIRB’s recommendation allows the minority Labor Party
government of Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  to avoid trying to
pass legislation enabling the deal through a potentially hostile
parliament, said Barnaby Joyce, an opponent of the merger and a
member of the opposition coalition partner the Nationals.  “This is convenient for the government because it doesn’t
have to face the political reality that there is no way the
parliament would have approved this nonsense deal,” Joyce said
in a phone interview from Tamworth today. “It would have seen
the closure of Sydney and Australia as a commercial center if
this ludicrous proposal had been approved -- jobs would have
disappeared.”  Unusual Release  Greens leader  Bob Brown , another opponent, said in an e-
mailed statement that there was no use in Swan’s comment that
the government would look at a restructured deal: “So what? It
would still be controlled by  Singapore  regardless,” he said.  The advice from the Australia’s Foreign Investment Review
Board is not usually released before the treasurer announces a
decision. Public sentiment against it has been building, with
lawmakers including independent  Bob Katter  raising nationalist
sentiment.  “The government has taken an unprecedented step of
releasing the advice without making a decision on it,” said
Rick Kuhn, a political analyst at the  Australian National
University . “It’s inconceivable that Swan would now go ahead
and approve this deal as the nationalist backlash would be even
greater.”  The government’s two-party preferred support fell to an
eight-year low of 45 percent in a Newspoll published in the
Australian newspaper today. The poll of 1133 people conducted
between April 1 and April 3 had a margin of error of plus or
minus three percentage points.  “They don’t have much going for them at the moment,” Kuhn
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 