-- 
Atomic Doomsday Was 15 Minutes Away for Zonked Bombers: Books

-- B y   G e o r g e   W a l d e n
-- 
2011-04-05T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/atomic-doomsday-was-15-minutes-away-as-zonked-pilots-chewed-speed-books.html
The onslaught would begin, American
war planners assumed in the 1950s, with the detonation of
nuclear bombs secreted by Russian operatives in  Washington ,  New
York  and at ports and airfields.  Then Soviet bombers would head for the U.S. to finish the
job, crossing  General Curtis LeMay ’s Strategic Air Command
retaliatory force en route. A doomsday scenario -- though not
everything need be lost. After tens of millions of people had
been skinned, vaporized or roasted alive on either side, there
could be a pause for negotiation.  For retrospective chills about the early days of the  Cold
War , it’s hard to beat “15 Minutes: General Curtis LeMay and
the Countdown to Nuclear Annihilation” by L. Douglas Keeney, a
military historian.  LeMay emerges not as the manic Cold Warrior of “Dr.
Strangelove,” nor as the man who later sullied his reputation
as the running mate to segregationist presidential candidate
George Wallace, the Alabama governor. LeMay’s verbal
extravagances notwithstanding -- “We should nuke the bastards”
-- he was, for Keeney, a supremely competent leader who built
the Strategic Air Command, or SAC, from scratch as the key
instrument to contain and deter Soviet Russia.  The thrills and spills on the way keep you reading. So does
a sense of awe. J. Robert Oppenheimer, the nuclear physicist,
described early bombs such as the  Fat Man  dropped on Nagasaki as
“haywire contraptions.”  Norris Bradbury , head of the Los
Alamos National Laboratory, said they “looked like they had the
measles.”  A-Bomb Dumps  The spills of nuclear weapons were literal, too: Dozens of
airborne bombs were dumped on land and at sea when the planes
carrying them came down or got into trouble in the 1950s. Though
official cover-ups soothed public fears, the avoidance of a
nuclear explosion was a miracle.  The hazards of warhead testing were similarly horrendous. A
“hairy-chested” approach became semiofficial doctrine, says
Keeney, describing a manly disinclination to worry too much
about radioactive contamination. After the runaway explosion of
the Bravo bomb during the  Operation Castle  tests near the Bikini
Atoll in the Pacific in 1954, the government worried more.  The yield was 15 megatons instead of the anticipated 8 to
10; visible fallout rained on sailors and technicians in shorts
and shirts. The sickness some suffered was appalling, though
less so than on the nearby Marshall Islands, where women
produced children with two heads or “grape babies” -- newborns
that resembled bunches of grapes.  Chewing Dexedrine  As Russian capabilities developed, warning times narrowed.
The SAC strived to shave seconds off the 15 minutes needed to
get its bombers airborne. The next step, inevitably, was
nuclear-armed planes permanently in the sky. Crews on 20-hour
patrols routinely overflew foreign countries, chewing Dexedrine
to stay alert.  Fortunately there were failsafe procedures: Pilots ordered
to head for Soviet Russia would turn back automatically after
designated periods unless specifically instructed to continue.  Nuclear equivalence with the Russians was a concept LeMay
and his successor, the equally ebullient General Thomas Power,
wouldn’t have recognized: Overkill was what they wanted -- and
what they got.  In 1956, the U.S.  national stockpile  was 4,618 nuclear
bombs, Keeney says; by 1962, it had reached 27,387. The
Russians, we now know, had 3,722. On top of that, the SAC was
what the Central Intelligence Agency called a “jumpy, alert-
happy force” -- a glamorous elite reveling in what Keeney
describes as a “bring-it-on” culture.  ‘Dead-Hand Switch’  The chill factor increases when we learn that both sides
had perfected what the Russians called a “dead-hand switch”
system of retaliation: Weapons were programmed to launch
automatically if their controllers were annihilated.  “There was more truth than fiction,” Keeney writes, “in
the idea that machines could end the world.”  By the 1970s, intercontinental ballistic missiles were
being perfected, rendering nuclear bombers largely obsolete, and
the SAC was dissolved in 1992, following the disintegration of
the  Soviet Union .  The power of Keeney’s book lies in his determination to
avoid excess emotion and stick to the facts -- facts that, God
knows, are themselves emotive enough. You finish this book a
little numbed, though with a strange sense of hope: If mankind
can get through years like these and learn the lessons, perhaps
it can get through anything.  “15 Minutes” is from  St. Martin’s  in the U.S. (372 pages,
$26.99). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (George Walden, a former U.K. diplomat and member of
Parliament, is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
 George Walden  in London at  gwashch@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Pressley at   jpressley@bloomberg.net . 