-- 
Latvia Bailout, Loan ‘Deal Killer’, Solvency II: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-05T12:50:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/latvia-bailout-loan-deal-killer-solvency-ii-compliance.html
The  International Monetary Fund  and
the  European Commission  will send a mission to  Latvia  today to
begin work on a country review as part of its bailout 7.5
billion-euro ($10.7 billion) loan.  The joint mission will meet with representatives from the
government, the central bank and bank regulators to discuss
budget and structural measures, the commission said in the
statement yesterday. The IMF and EC will seek an agreement with
Latvia on terms to allow the payment of the next loan
installment, according to the e-mailed statement.  The Baltic nation turned to a group led by the EU and the
IMF for the loan after its second-biggest bank failed in 2008.  Compliance Policy  Regulators Include ‘Deal Killer’ in Securitization Proposal  A U.S. government proposal forcing bond issuers or lenders
to keep stakes in securitized loans contains a provision that
may be a “deal killer” for home-loan bonds and shut down the
market for commercial-mortgage securities, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  analysts.  Companies packaging property loans into securities would
need to set aside certain cash that they normally collect
upfront in bond sales. The proposed rules were released for
public comment on March 29 by regulators including the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. and  Federal Reserve .  The “premium capture cash reserve accounts” would relate
to bonds tied to interest payments on securitized assets in
excess of what’s needed to pay other debt sold in the deals. The
accounts would be in addition to the amounts that issuers or
lenders must retain to satisfy a requirement that they hold 5
percent of the credit risk of transactions, according to the
 proposal .  For home-loan securities without government-backed
guarantees, a market that has become “close to viable” again
for the safest and largest loans, the provision “could
potentially be a ‘deal killer,’” New York-based JPMorgan
analysts led by  John Sim  and Ed Reardon wrote in a report.  Sim didn’t immediately return a call seeking further
comment.  For more, click here.  European Insurers Warn of Solvency II’s ‘Dire Consequences’  European insurers have warned of “dire consequences” for
the region’s insurance industry should regulators not change
current capital requirements for long-term policies.  “It is absolutely imperative that changes are made to the
overly conservative approach being adopted in several areas of
the current” regulations, the Pan European Insurance Forum and
the  European Insurance and Reinsurance Federation  wrote in an
open letter to the  European Commission  dated March 29.  Insurers say if the Solvency II capital rules were
implemented as they stand, firms would be forced to withdraw or
significantly increase prices for long-term pension products
such as annuities. Solvency II is attempting to provide a common
regulatory framework for all insurers within the European Union
and will come into effect on Jan. 1, 2013.  The letter, addressed to European Commissioner for  Internal
Market and Services  Michel Barnier, was signed by executives
including  AXA SA (CS)  Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries and
Dieter Wemmer, chief financial officer of Zurich Financial
Services AG.  Schaeuble Eases Company Cross-Border Tax Rules After EU Demand  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  will make it
easier for some companies based in  Germany  and with subsidiaries
in other European Union states to balance profits and losses,
the  Finance Ministry  said.  The move came in response to  criticism  from the European
Commission, the EU’s executive body, of German treatment of
companies set up in accordance with the company law of another
EU state and which have their registered office outside Germany
and place of effective management in the country. Under German
law, such firms can’t benefit from tax rules available to German
companies even though they are fully taxable in the country.  The decision won’t have any “financial consequences” for
the budget of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government,  Finance
Ministry  spokesman Martin Kreienbaum told reporters at a regular
government press conference in Berlin yesterday.  Compliance Action  PCAOB’s Doty Says  China  Audits Are ‘Gaping Hole’ in Regulation  U.S. regulators face “a gaping hole in investor
protection” because of their inability to inspect auditors
based in China, Public Accounting Oversight Board Chairman James
R. Doty said.  The PCAOB is meeting resistance to inspections in China,
based primarily on national sovereignty grounds, Doty said
yesterday at a  Council of Institutional Investors  meeting in
 Washington . The resistance “is especially troubling” given the
increasing number of Chinese firms seeking access to U.S.
capital, he said.  Some auditors of China-based firms listed on U.S. exchanges
are signing off on financial statements without verifying the
accuracy of their books, according to a report released last
month by the PCAOB, the Washington-based nonprofit created to
oversee public-company audits. The Securities and Exchange
Commission, which oversees the PCAOB, launched a probe of
Chinese firms last year, asking auditors for information on
their practices and fees.  Doty, who took the helm at PCAOB aiming to improve the
regulator’s cooperation agreements with overseas regulators,
cited an agreement with Swiss authorities to begin joint
inspections in May as an indicator of progress. The PCAOB plans
to inspect three Big Four affiliate firms in Switzerland by the
end of the year, Doty said. The watchdog reached a similar
agreement with the U.K. in January and is planning joint
inspections of two large firms starting next month, he said.  ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s Antitrust Fine Cut by 80%, EU Agency Says  ArcelorMittal won an 80 percent reduction in European Union
antitrust fines after a regulator said it couldn’t force the
company to pay the share of the overall penalty earmarked for
three units.  “The commission reduced the fine because the subsidiaries
could not pay it and ArcelorMittal refused to do it for them,”
Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the  European Commission  said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. The fines were cut to 45.7
million euros ($65 million) from 230.4 million euros.  ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, and the
three units based in Italy, Belgium and France, were among steel
producers fined on June 30 for fixing the prices of steel used
to reinforce concrete for 18 years until 2002. It’s the second
time the commission has cut the fines for ArcelorMittal and its
units. In a Sept. 30  decision , it cited errors in the original
penalty.  EU regulators recently raised their fines against parent
companies, saying they are liable for competition-law violations
by their units.  For more, click here.  SodaStream Says Swedish Agency May Issue Antitrust Complaint  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  said Swedish antitrust
authorities indicated they would send it a draft antitrust
complaint in a case concerning the use of carbon dioxide
cylinders.  “The Swedish Competition Authority has indicated that it
intends to present us with a draft statement of objections,
detailing the alleged infringement,” SodaStream International
said in a regulatory filing published yesterday.  Pandora Discloses Grand Jury Probe of Apple, Android Apps  Pandora Media Inc., the Internet music service, said it had
been served with a subpoena in connection with a grand jury
probe it said may be investigating the information-sharing
processes of software applications that run on  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
“the Android mobile platforms.”  Pandora was informed it is not a specific target of the
investigation and the company “believes” similar subpoenas
have been issued on “an industrywide basis to publishers of
numerous other smartphone applications,” the company said in a
securities filing yesterday.  Pandora made the disclosure in a securities filing as part
of plans for an initial public offering. The company didn’t
disclose the location of the grand jury. Deborah Roth, a
spokeswoman, declined to comment beyond the filings.  Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, had no immediate
comment.  For more, click here.  Lower Saxony, State Savings Banks Criticize EU Stress Tests  The German state of Lower Saxony and the regional savings
bank association criticized the latest round of bank stress
tests, saying that preparations by the  European Banking
Authority  are  “completely unprofessional” and left gaps.  Thomas Mang, president of the Lower Saxony savings bank, or
Sparkassen, association, said that banks were still unsure of
the criteria for the tests even though they are due to be
conducted within a week, according to an e-mailed statement
today.  Lower Saxony Finance Minister Hartmut Moellring, who sits
on the board of NordLB, said that the conditions for the tests
discouraged banks from taking part, according to the statement.
Both criticized the situation surrounding silent participation
capital.  Courts  Fed Fights Debit Card Fee Lawsuit in Court Far From Washington  Lawyers for Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and a
regional savings and loan association are squaring off over
debit-card fees in a South Dakota courtroom 1,075 miles from the
debate in Congress on the same issue.  U.S. District Judge Lawrence L. Piersol in Sioux Falls was
set to hear arguments yesterday on coming Federal Reserve
regulations to limit “swipe fees,” the money merchants must
pass along to banks in exchange for being able to accept cards
as payment. TCF National Bank, a Sioux Falls-based unit of  TCF
Financial Corp. (TCB) , sued the board seeking a bar to rules it said
will cause them to lose money on debit-card services.  The government is asking Piersol to throw out the case. Its
lawyers say the suit is meritless because Congress has ample
authority to regulate banks and premature because the rules
under attack haven’t been enacted.  Standing with TCF is a group of organizations including the
 American Bankers Association ,  Consumer Bankers Association  and
the Mid-Size Bank Coalition of America.  U.S. debit-card transactions climbed from about 8 billion
in 2000 to 38 billion in 2009, Bernanke said in a March 29
letter to a congressional committee. The cards have surpassed
checks and credit cards as the most frequently used noncash
means of payment, he said.  The case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 10-cv-04149,
U.S. District Court for South Dakota (Sioux Falls).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Burns Says Galleon Judge May Restrict Jarrell Testimony  Douglas Burns, a former federal prosecutor, talked about
the insider-trading trial of Galleon Group co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam.  Prosecutors are asking the judge in the case to block
proposed testimony from Gregg Jarrell, a former chief economist
to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission who may testify
that he found nothing improper with stock trades by Rajaratnam.
Burns spoke with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  Evans Sees Limits on Regulations Protecting Consumers  Federal  Reserve Bank  of  Chicago  President Charles Evans
spoke about banking regulation and financial literacy at a panel
event held in Chicago yesterday.  The U.S. Treasury’s Rosie Rios, Ariel Investments’ John
Rogers and the World Bank’s Ian Solomon also spoke in the panel
moderated by Maria Bartiromo at the Chicago Fed.  For the audio, click here.  Bernanke Urges Strong Risk-Management Rules for Clearinghouses  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S.
should subject clearinghouses for financial trading to
“strong” risk-management oversight to minimize the chance
they’ll require emergency government aid.  The existence of a backstop “could give rise to moral
hazard” and lead to “insufficient attention” to private-
sector aid solutions, Bernanke said in a speech yesterday in
Stone Mountain, Georgia. “The Federal Reserve believes it
essential that the regulatory regime for these institutions
include strong prudential requirements for credit and liquidity
risk management,” default procedures, cash buffers and
collateral, he said.  Bernanke affirmed his support for the Dodd-Frank Act of
2010, which aims to reduce the risk of repeating the 2007-08
financial crisis by having most interest-rate and credit-default
swaps guaranteed by central clearinghouses that settle and
process trades. Given that the same global banks participate in
the major clearinghouses, who in turn rely on “similar sets of
banks” for services and liquidity, “the need for strong risk
management and oversight will only increase as we go forward,”
Bernanke said.  For more, click here.  Zurich’s Lehmann Says ‘Don’t Fix What Works’ on Systemic Risks  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN)  Chief Risk Officer Axel
Lehmann said “too-big-to-fail” rules for insurers may distort
competition, making it harder for Switzerland’s biggest insurer
to contend with smaller rivals.  “Don’t fix what works,” Lehmann said during a
presentation in Zurich today. Insurance companies don’t carry
the same systemic risks as banks and there are enough mechanisms
to ensure that if an insurer fails, shareholders would carry the
burden and not policy holders, he said.  The  International Association of Insurance Supervisors  in
Basel, Switzerland, is currently helping the  Financial Stability
Board  draft a list of insurance companies considered as
systemically important, and thus too big to fail. Those firms
would then face tougher capital requirements. The FSB is seeking
to prevent a repeat of the turmoil that occurred in 2008
following the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   Comings and Goings  Citigroup Hires Former Bush Lobbyist Wolff for Government Role  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the biggest recipient of U.S. taxpayer
bailout support, hired former Bush administration lobbyist
Candida “Candi” Wolff as executive vice president for global
government affairs.  Wolff, 46, who was former President George W. Bush’s chief
lobbyist from 2005 through 2007, will oversee international,
federal, state and local government relations for Citigroup, the
New York-based bank said yesterday in a statement. Wolff is a
partner in the Washington office of the law firm Hogan Lovells
US, LLC. She will resign that position and begin with Citigroup
on May 2, she said in an interview.  Wolff is at least the third former White House official
tapped by Citigroup as the bank, the third-largest in the U.S.,
recovers from a $45 billion rescue in 2008.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  