-- 
Australia Posts First Trade Deficit in Year as Disasters Disrupt Exports

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-05T03:08:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/australia-posts-first-trade-deficit-in-year-as-disasters-disrupt-exports.html
Australia ’s trade balance
unexpectedly swung to a deficit in February for the first time
in almost a year as disruptions from natural disasters cut
mining shipments and higher fuel prices boosted imports.  The shortfall was A$205 million ($212 million), from a
revised A$1.43 billion surplus in January, the first time
imports exceeded exports since March 2010, the Bureau of
Statistics said in a report in Sydney today. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists was for a surplus of
A$1.2 billion.  The Australian dollar, which yesterday reached the highest
level since it was freely floated in 1983, fell after the
report. The central bank is forecast to hold its benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 4.75 percent today as torrential
rains in Queensland in January and Cyclone Yasi in February cut
shipments and  Japan , Australia’s second-biggest trading partner,
grapples with earthquake damage and a nuclear crisis.  “Intense flooding and port disruptions weighed on
exports,” said Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney. “Japan’s disaster will likely hamper
Australian exports in coming months, before growing energy and
steel-making needs boost exports of coal and iron ore in the
second half of 2011.”  Currency Declines  Australia’s dollar weakened to $1.0325 at 12:14 p.m. in
Sydney, from $1.0363 in  New York  yesterday, when it slid 0.2
percent. The currency touched a record $1.0417 yesterday. Total
exports fell 2 percent to A$22.8 billion in February, as metal
and mineral shipments dropped 8 percent, today’s report showed.
Non-monetary gold exports declined 45 percent.  Imports increased 5 percent to A$23 billion, led by a 26
percent gain in fuels and lubricants. Imports were also
bolstered by a 33 percent rise in civil aircraft, the report
showed.  Today’s deficit ended a 10-month run of trade surpluses,
the longest stretch since 1972-73, Westpac Banking Corp.
economists led by  Bill Evans  said. The “much weaker than
expected” trade figures mean the economy may have contracted
0.2 percent in the first quarter, according to Westpac.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  this week estimated the damage to the
economy at about A$9 billion after the government forecast 20
percent higher coal-industry losses.  RBA Policy  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has raised its benchmark
interest rate seven times from October 2009 to November last
year to contain inflation as a mining-investment boom bolsters
employment growth.  Australian employers probably added 24,000 jobs in March
and the jobless rate held at 5 percent for a third straight
month, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 25 economists before an April 7 report.  “Australia’s terms of trade are at their highest level
since the early 1950s and national income is growing strongly,”
central bank Governor Glenn Stevens said last month when he kept
rates unchanged at 4.75 percent, referring to a measure of
income earned from exports. “Private investment is picking up,
mainly in the resources sector, in response to high levels of
commodity prices.”  Increased demand for skilled workers at projects such as
Chevron Corp.’s A$43 billion Gorgon liquefied natural-gas
project, under construction in  Western Australia , threatens to
stoke wage growth and inflation. BG Group Plc, Chevron, Royal
Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are among companies planning
to invest about A$200 billion in proposed liquefied natural gas
projects in Australia.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said Feb. 1 the resource
industry could be short 36,000 workers in the next four years
and the government will have to introduce measures to encourage
older Australians and parents to rejoin the workforce to meet
the demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  