-- 
May White-Sugar Premium Doubles on Concern About Limited Supply

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-04-05T16:12:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/may-white-sugar-premium-doubles-on-concern-about-limited-supply.html
May-delivery white sugar’s premium
to sweetener for August delivery doubled in five weeks on
concern supply might be limited to satisfy the expiring May
contract on NYSE Liffe in  London .  White, or refined, sugar for May delivery cost about $52 a
metric ton more than the August contract at 4:40 p.m. local
time, up from $26 a ton on March 1, data on Bloomberg showed.
The gap between London and New York prices widened by almost 22
percent to about $107 a ton in the same period, signaling a
possible shortage of refined sweetener for immediate delivery.  “The larger-than-expected Thai sugar-cane crop has meant
that millers are still processing cane, delaying the re-melt of
raws into whites,” Peter de Klerk, an analyst at broker C.
Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd., said by phone from London today.  Sugar production in the current season in  Thailand , the
world’s second-largest exporter after  Brazil , rose almost 12
percent from a year earlier to 7.57 million tons through March
20, according to F.O. Licht. Output for the season may still
reach an all-time high, the German researcher said in a report
covering the March 16-25 period.  A lack of clarity as to whether Indian companies would be
able to ship more sugar to  Europe  also supported refined prices
in London, de Klerk said. The country is the second-biggest
sugar producer after Brazil.  Import Quota  “It’s uncertain whether the government of India will allow
Indian companies to supply sugar under the new European zero-
duty import quota,” de Klerk said.  India  can export 10,000 tons of sweetener to the European
Union without duty under regular quotas, according to Roger
Waite, a spokesman for the European Commission, the bloc’s
executive arm. The EU’s sugar-management committee on March 10
backed plans to allow imports of a further 300,000 tons of raw
or refined sweetener at zero duty.  While the additional quota can be filled by sugar of any
origin, Indian law restricts exports to the  Indian Sugar Exim
Corp. , Waite said in an e-mailed response to questions today.  “The EU legislation only cares about the origin, not the
exporter,” he said. “Potential restrictions could still be
with third-country legislation and customs, which could not
allow such exports if the bill of lading states that the sugar
will be exported to the EU.”  The May white-sugar contract expires April 15, with first
delivery taking place May 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 