-- 
Bank of Nova Scotia Profit Target This Year Is ‘Sustainable,’ Waugh Says

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-04-05T04:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/bank-of-nova-scotia-profit-target-this-year-is-sustainable-waugh-says.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , which reported
record profit last year and in the first quarter of 2011, will
meet its annual profit target this year on higher earnings from
international banking and asset management, Chief Executive
Officer Richard Waugh said.  Canada’s third-largest bank has  targeted  7 percent to 12
percent profit growth from a base of C$4.24 billion ($4.38
billion) in the fiscal year that ended Oct. 31. The bank is
forecast to earn C$4.69 billion this year, based on a Bloomberg
survey of nine analysts.  “We set our targets in growth; the first quarter certainly
achieved that, and I’m pretty comfortable that we’re going to be
able to continue,” Waugh said during an interview in Halifax,
Nova Scotia, where the Toronto-based lender holds its annual
meeting today. “We’re confident we can achieve these targets.”  Scotiabank’s expansion in  Asia  and Latin America, as well
as growth in the mutual fund business in Canada, will offset a
slower pace of growth in domestic consumer banking as clients
manage higher  household debt , Waugh said. The bank’s first-
quarter profit rose 19 percent to C$1.17 billion.  “I think the real gains for us right now are in
international and global wealth,” said Waugh, 63. “Probably
for the next 24 or 36 months, those two probably have the best
leverage.”  Over time, Waugh would like to see about 20 percent to 30
percent of revenue come from each of his four business units --
domestic banking, international banking, asset management and
investment banking. At the end of the fiscal first quarter,
about 38 percent came from domestic banking.  ‘Diversify’  “You have to be diversified, because there are always
unforeseen circumstances, and that will continue,” said Waugh.
“Diversify but keep to your competitive strengths.”  One way Scotiabank may diversify is by seeking bond
underwriting mandates outside  Canada . The  Inter-American
Development Bank  said last month it plans to help Latin American
countries “de-dollarize” their economies by providing more
financing in local currencies. Scotiabank last year bought an
investment-banking business from Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in  Colombia  and has operations in countries including Mexico,
Peru and  Chile .  “We have lots of room in the trading markets because of
our reputation and the quality of our rating,” said Waugh, who
also serves as vice chairman of the  Institute of International
Finance.  “So we’re going to try to capitalize on that.”  Waugh travels to  Washington  this week as one of the 2011
recipients of the  Horatio Alger Association Award .  Horatio Alger  The award, which will also be given to actor  Leonardo DiCaprio  and New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  among others this
year, awards individuals who “have succeeded in spite of
adversity”.  Waugh, who said he fought a “serious illness” at the age
of 12 and paid for his university education himself, said he
will use the award as a platform to establish scholarships for
Canadians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 