-- 
Barclays Wealth Goes to Cash Selling ‘Expensive’ Corporate Debt

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-04-05T18:26:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/barclays-wealth-selling-expensive-investment-grade-bonds-for-equities.html
Investment-grade corporate bonds are
too ‘expensive’ relative to other asset classes as the
securities stand to gain less from the global economic recovery,
according to  Barclays Wealth .  The unit of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  is selling the bonds and adding to
cash and developed market equities this quarter, said Kevin Gardiner, head of global investment strategy at the money
manager, which oversees $254 billion.  “Of the fixed-income markets we’re looking at, investment-
grade credit looks the worst, looks the most expensive,”
Gardiner said at a press briefing today in New York. “Because
these are blue-chip companies to begin with, there’s not much of
a recovery in creditworthiness essentially to anticipate.
There’s also going to be a revival in merger and acquisition
activity out there, and gradually, that’s going to count against
IG credit.”  Investment-grade corporate bonds have gained 33 percent
since the end of 2008 as the economic recovery gained traction
and companies bolstered their balance sheets. The extra yield
investors demand to own the debt relative to Treasuries tumbled
to as low as 148 basis points, or 1.48 percentage points, last
quarter, the least since October 2007, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  Spreads on investment-grade debt are “back to normal” and
the asset class is “relatively insensitive to both corporate
recovery and geopolitical risk,” Barclays Wealth said in its
global strategy outlook presentation.  Boosting Stocks  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 3.1 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter, Commerce Department figures showed March 25,
and it may grow 3 percent this year, the most since 2005,
according to the median estimate of 65 analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey. Manufacturing increased at about the fastest pace
in almost seven years in March and the  unemployment rate 
declined to 8.8 percent, the lowest since March 2009, reports
showed last week. That’s boosting the relative appeal of riskier
asset classes, including high-yield bonds and stocks.  Investment-grade bond prices average 107.1 cents on the
dollar as of yesterday, compared with 88.8 cents two years ago,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Mergers
and acquisitions were cited by borrowers as a use of proceeds in
62 percent of investment-grade offerings this quarter, the
highest proportion since at least 2005, data from Moody’s Corp.
and Dealogic Holdings Plc show.  The 0.98 percent return on investment-grade corporate bonds
in the first quarter, including reinvested dividends, compares
with a 5.9 percent gain on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
3.9 percent on high-yield debt.  “We’d sooner be in cash now than we would in bonds,
particularly in the corporate credit side of the portfolio,”
Gardiner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  