-- 
Basic Funerals Bets Baby Boomers Will Arrange Cremations Online

-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 
2011-04-05T13:52:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/basic-funerals-bets-baby-boomers-will-arrange-cremations-online.html
Eric Vandermeersch was 14 when his 70-year-old grandfather
died unexpectedly during routine heart surgery. At the beloved tobacco farmer’s funeral
in Delhi, Ontario, family grieved with friends in the small town’s only funeral home, which
had been in the community since the 1960s. Vandermeersch was awed by the funeral
director’s adeptness at putting people at ease. He found work in a funeral home a year
later and earned his director’s license at 19. “It’s not the dead that motivates a good
funeral director,” he says. “It’s the living.”  Today, Vandermeersch is a pioneer in the industry. The 29-year-old is co-founder of
 Basic Funerals and Cremation Choices,  one of the first online upstarts in a business
that for centuries has relied on face-to-face meetings in brick-and-mortar parlors to sell
its services. Vandermeersch and Dominic Mazzone, 39, launched their company just
outside Toronto in 2009, convinced that people would jump at the chance to bypass
morbid sales pitches and choose to book funerals over the Web. “Funeral arrangements
are a very private thing,” says Nikoleta Panteva, industry analyst for research firm
IBISWorld. “So to be able to do it in the convenience of your own home, at your own
time, at your own pace is something that’s pretty novel to the industry.”  That novelty is paying off. With more than 1,000 funerals arranged through its site,
Basic Funerals became profitable last year, with just under $1 million in revenue,
Chairman Mazzone says. He expects to arrange 1,500 funerals and hit roughly $4.5
million in revenue this year, then to double both figures in 2012. He notes that  baby
boomers ’ parents are nearing the end of their lives, while their tech-savvy children are
comfortable buying goods and services over the Web. “They got their foot in the door at
a very good time, business-wise,” Panteva says. The company arranges cremations in
Ontario and  Illinois  and is just getting started in Colorado. It’s planning to expand into at
least one additional U.S. state and Canadian province this year.  CENTERED AROUND TORONTO AND CHICAGO  Roughly 90 percent of the company’s customers book services online or over the
phone, and 10 percent visit its offices near Chicago and Toronto. The company says its
prices in the U.S. can be about half those of traditional homes: They start at $1,175 for
cremation with no service, just over $1,700 for a burial with graveside service, and less
than $2,600 for a funeral with a casket. The site includes a quote calculator for adding
such extras as more expensive urns and caskets, catering, and limousine service. The
12-employee company maintains licensed funeral directors on staff and has facilities for
embalming and storing bodies. The majority of Basic Funerals’ business is located in
and around Toronto and  Chicago , with nearly all its customers choosing cremation.
Customers who want a burial have the option of a one- or two-hour visitation in a facility
leased by Basic, followed by a graveside service.  Patrick Lynch, president of the National Funeral Directors Assn. trade group, believes
that low-cost funerals are a tiny sliver of the $13 billion market and that most people will
continue to choose to pay final respects to loved ones with more elaborate services. “To
arrange for the disposition of someone that you have loved is neither simple or easy,”
he says. “It’s complex and it’s difficult and it’s heart wrenching, and to attempt to do that
with just a keyboard makes it more difficult.”  In 1999, his group started advocating that online funeral middlemen be covered under
the Federal Trade Commission rules that govern today’s funeral homes. Congress is
considering such a change in the proposed Bereaved Consumer’s Bill of Rights Act of
2011. Joshua Slocum, executive director of the Funeral Consumers Alliance, a
consumer advocacy group, says Basic Funerals charges less than many funeral homes,
but its price list doesn’t go far enough in breaking down those services required by law
and those required by the company. “Maybe it’s something they didn’t consider, but it is
a problem from a consumer advocate’s point of view and it’s something I think they
need to fix,” says Slocum. Mazzone says Basic Funerals will change its price list if the
law requires it.  For now, the company is more concerned with the cost of complying with a patchwork of
state and provincial regulations. Basic Funerals moved quickly into  Colorado  this year
because the state has fewer licensing requirements than any other and is unique in that
it doesn’t require a license for a funeral home or crematory. The business is cherry-
picking among other states, planning to enter those with laws that are friendly to online
operations. “Funerals is one of the last industries that has not made shopping online
very easy,” Slocum says. “At least half of funeral homes don’t even have a website.
That’s pretty astonishing in 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at
 antonegonsalves@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  