-- 
BAT to Develop ‘Safer’ Nicotine Products for Long-Term Use

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-04-05T09:19:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/bat-creates-division-to-make-safer-alternative-to-cigarettes.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) , the
maker of Lucky Strikes, created a unit that will seek to develop
nicotine products for people wanting an alternative to
cigarettes as governments aim to reduce smoking.  Nicoventures Ltd. plans to develop tobacco-free nicotine
products, Kate Matrunola, a spokeswoman for London-based BAT,
said today. The unit employs four people and will discuss with
regulators what sort of products might work, she said by phone.  “It’s not for cessation,” Matrunola said. “There is an
unmet need out there for consumers” who don’t want to quit.  Tobacco companies  have spent decades trying to develop a
safer alternative to smoking, including RJR Nabisco Inc.’s 1988
test of Premier, a smokeless cigarette. Star Scientific Inc.,
based in Glen Allen,  Virginia , said March 23 that a decision by
U.S. regulators cleared the way for it to start selling tobacco
lozenges. The global market for cigarettes excluding  China ,
which is largely closed to foreign tobacco companies, will
probably shrink by 2.5 percent in 2011, BAT Chief Executive
Officer Nicandro Durante said Feb. 24.  Restrictions on advertising and marketing may be a
challenge to smoking substitutes, according to analysts.  “The biggest obstacles will be regulatory,” Erik Bloomquist, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in London, said by
phone. “The mindset in much of public health around tobacco is
quit or die, not harm-reduction.”  Snus Ban  Adrian Marshall, who previously led a program at BAT that
sought to develop less-risky alternatives to cigarettes, will
head the unit. Two of the other employees previously worked at
Swedish Match AB and one worked with smoking cessation brands in
the U.K., according to Nicoventures’s  website.   The U.K. tobacco company and Swedish Match have lobbied the
European Union to lift a ban on selling snus, a moist form of
snuff legal in  Sweden , in other countries in the region.  Nicoventures said it aims for the products to give smokers
“much of the experience they expect to get from a cigarette.”  “The grail is a product that replicates as closely as
possible the sensations and rituals of smoking,” Berenberg’s
Bloomquist said.  Altria Inc. said Jan. 31 it will try selling new smokeless
products in test markets throughout the U.S. About a quarter of
smokers are interested in smokeless tobacco alternatives to
cigarettes, according to the Richmond, Virginia-based company.  BAT’s other harm-reduction projects continue, and the
company’s “core business” remains tobacco, Matrunola said. The
maker of the Kent and Pall Mall brands said in April 2009 it was
beginning clinical tests on a cigarette prototype that might
have fewer health risks. BAT will provide more information on
the tests “soon,” Matrunola said, without elaborating.  BAT shares rose 7 pence, or 0.3 percent, to 2,538 pence as
of 9:46 a.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 