-- 
Belarus May Need IMF Help on Top of Loans, UniCredit Says

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-04-05T17:31:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/belarus-may-need-imf-help-on-top-of-loans-unicredit-says-1-.html
Belarus may need a $2.5 billion
International Monetary Fund loan package to help cover its
external financing gap after the country’s foreign reserves
plunged, according to UniCredit SpA.  The eastern European country allowed its currency, the
ruble, to depreciate on March 29 as part of a strategy to reduce
a current-account deficit equivalent to 15.6 percent of gross
domestic product last year. It is also seeking a $3 billion loan
from  Russia  and former Soviet partners to plug its financing gap
after running down foreign reserves to $2.2 billion as of the
end of February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg data.
Reserves cover about one month of imports, the Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc said March 25.  “The loss of 20 percent of the central bank’s foreign-
exchange reserves since the start of the year, some $1 billion,
comes amid an uncertain external financing profile,”  Dmitry Gourov , an emerging-market strategist at UniCredit in Vienna,
wrote in the note. In addition to funding from Russia and the
Eurasian Economic Community, “there is a high chance that an
IMF package will be requested in the second half,” he wrote.  The country last applied for an IMF loan during the global
credit crunch and got a $3.5 billion bailout in 2009 from the
Washington-based lending institution. The program expired last
year.  Belarus has an external financing gap of $4.6 billion this
year, according to the IMF. The country has issued 7 billion
Russian rubles ($247 million) and $1.8 billion of bonds since
July, equivalent to 4 percent of GDP, according to UniCredit
calucalations.  ‘Unsustainable’  “The core of the problem has been the unsustainable
developments on external financing side,” Gourov wrote.
“Similar developments were taking place on the private side
too, where banks and corporates rushed to gain external
financing,” leaving private banks with a deficit in net foreign
assets since the second half of last year after maintaining
surpluses from at least 2005, he wrote.  The central bank may allow the ruble to fluctuate as much
as 12 percent from the official  exchange rate , the Interfax news
service reported today, citing a Belarusian official it didn’t
identify. Policy makers permitted a deviation of as much as 10
percent on March 29, a move that UniCredit said allowed for an 8
percent devaluation of the ruble, even as the immediate effect
has been “limited” because the  interbank market  remains
“fairly thin,” according to the note.  ‘Sacred’  President Alexander Lukashenko  linked his country’s
foreign currency difficulties to increased demand for used cars
imports from abroad, the Belarusian state-owned news agency
Belta reported today. Lukashenko believes that the situation
“is calming down,” the news service quoted him as saying.
Tariffs for car imports by individuals in Belarus will be raised
to the level of those applied in Russia and in  Kazakhstan  from
July 1, according to Belta.  “But honestly, if there is currency available, go ahead
and buy or sell it,” Lukashenko said to journalists in the
Brest region of Western Belarus, the agency reported. “If there
is none, we will not tap our reserves any more. Our gold and
currency reserves are sacred.”  The Russian government raised duties at the start of 2009
on imported new and used cars to protect domestic producers. The
tariffs range from 30 percent to 35 percent.  Yields on Belarus’s 2015 dollar bonds fell 37 basis points
to 11.12 percent as of 7 p.m. in Minsk, while its 2018 dollar
notes traded at 11.039 percent, down 47 basis points from
yesterday’s close. The Belarusian ruble was 0.1 percent weaker
at 3,050 per dollar, leaving its overall drop this year at 1.7
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  