-- 
Berlusconi Sex and Abuse-of-Power Trial Adjourned to May 31

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-04-06T08:47:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/berlusconi-sex-trial-opens-as-premier-divides-italian-public.html
Silvio Berlusconi’s Milan trial on
charges of underage prostitution and abuse of power was
adjourned for more than a month, as the prime minister pledged
to attend future proceedings and his allies in parliament
maneuvered to have the case transferred to a special tribunal.  The trial will resume May 31, Judge Giulia Turri said at
the Milan courthouse. Berlusconi, in a letter read out by his
lawyer Giorgio Perroni, said that while the crisis in  Libya 
prevented him from attending today’s opening session, he plans
to be present at future hearings.  Berlusconi, 74, was ordered on Feb. 9 to stand trial on
charges of abuse of power and paying a minor for sex, sparking
calls for his resignation and intensifying a confrontation with
the Italian judiciary. The trial will probe his ties, and
possible payments, to Karima El Mahroug, a Moroccan woman known
as Ruby Heart Stealer. She says she attended at least one party
at the prime minister’s mansion near Milan in February 2010,
when she was 17.  El Mahroug was not present in the Milan court today, said
her lawyer Paola Boccardi.  Of the four current trials involving the prime minister,
the underage prostitution and abuse-of-power case is grabbing
the headlines and dividing public opinion. Berlusconi opponents
have rallied outside the Milan tribunal, many holding banners,
including one that read “your orgy days are numbered.”  The prime minister’s supporters, who have set up a gazebo
as their courthouse headquarters, have been equally adamant that
the prime minister is innocent.  ‘Impeccable Morals’  “He’s an honest man, with impeccable morals, he can do
what he wants in his own home,” said Maria Grazia Piracci, 53,
a self-employed saleswoman waving an Italian flag. “If he wants
to throw a party with some friends and make merry, there’s
nothing wrong with that.”  Piracci said she’s been at the courthouse every day since
March 1.  The abuse-of-power charge stems from Berlusconi’s role in
helping secure El Mahroug’s release from police custody in Milan
after she was detained last May on unrelated theft charges.  Although Berlusconi’s popularity is at a record low, his
ruling coalition is more popular in polls than the opposition,
Rome-based IPR Marketing said in a survey of 1,000 Italians
conducted on March 13 and March 14. No margin of error was
given.  If elections were held now, voters would likely stick with
the premier’s coalition, which had the support of 42.2 percent
of respondents, compared with 41.2 percent for a group of
opposition parties, the survey showed. If Berlusconi serves out
his full five-year term, elections wouldn’t be held until 2013.  ‘Disgusting’ Accusations  Berlusconi, who denies any wrongdoing, has called the
charges in the sex and abuse-of-power case “disgusting” and
“groundless.”  The premier attended a hearing on March 28 for another
trial in which he’s accused of  tax fraud  in buying film rights
for Mediatrade SpA, a unit of his  Mediaset SpA (MS)  broadcasting
company.  Berlusconi is also charged in a third trial, related to
alleged tax fraud at Mediaset. A fourth trial, involving
allegations that Berlusconi paid U.K. lawyer David Mills a
$600,000 bribe to lie under oath, is also underway.  Italy ’s lower house of parliament yesterday approved a
measure to request that the country’s highest court rule on
whether the underage prostitution and abuse-of-power case should
be heard by a special tribunal.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at  fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  