-- 
Bernanke Says Fed Will Act If Inflation More Than ‘Transitory’

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-05T00:42:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/bernanke-says-fed-will-act-if-inflation-increase-is-more-than-transitory-.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he expects an increase in commodity prices to
create a “transitory” boost in U.S. inflation and that the
central bank would act if he’s proven incorrect.  “So long as inflation expectations remain stable and well
anchored” and commodity-price increases slow, as he’s
forecasting, then “the increase in inflation will be
transitory,” Bernanke said today in response to audience
questions after a speech in Stone Mountain,  Georgia .  “We have to monitor inflation and inflation expectations
extremely closely because if my assumptions prove not to be
correct, then we would certainly have to respond to that and
ensure that we maintain  price stability ,” he said.  The dollar rose against the euro and yen after the
comments, which are similar to both Bernanke’s congressional
testimony and the statement from the policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee  last month. He told lawmakers March 1 that Fed
officials “continue to monitor these developments closely and
are prepared to respond as necessary,” while the FOMC said on
March 15 that it “will pay close attention to the evolution of
inflation and inflation expectations.”  The dollar rose to 84.28 yen at 9:17 a.m. in  Tokyo  from
84.06 on April 4 after earlier touching 84.49. Against the euro,
the dollar strengthened to $1.4211 from $1.4221 after reaching
as high as $1.4193.  The Commerce Department reported last week that the Fed’s
preferred price gauge, the personal consumption expenditures
index, excluding food and energy, increased 0.9 percent in
February from a year earlier. Including all items, prices rose
1.6 percent.  The FOMC, led by Bernanke, said after its last meeting on
March 15 that the economy is on a “firmer footing” and
affirmed plans to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June.
Bernanke hasn’t said what he favors as the next move for
monetary policy after that.  The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate close to zero
since December 2008 and last month reiterated it would remain
there for an “extended period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  