-- 
Thai Billionaire Dhanin's CP All May Open Stores in China, Laos, Vietnam

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-04-05T07:42:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/billionaire-dhanin-s-cp-all-says-may-open-stores-in-china-southeast-asia.html
CP All Pcl (CPALL) , the Thai 7-Eleven
convenience-store operator controlled by billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont, said it may open outlets in China and neighboring
Southeast Asian countries to tap rising incomes.  The Bangkok-based retailer aims to boost revenue by at
least 15 percent annually by adding stores, Kriengchai Boonpoapichart, head of finance and investor relations, said in
an interview today. CP All, the world’s third-largest  7-Eleven
chain operator  by number of stores, plans to open about 500 new
outlets a year, with more than half outside Bangkok, he said.  CP All, which operates about 6,000 convenience stores in
Thailand and boosted its profit almost fivefold in the last
three years on outlet expansion, aims to tap demand in regions
of  China  outside Beijing and  Shanghai  and may bid for a
franchise in the country’s north, Kriengchai said. The retailer
may also start stores in neighboring Southeast Asian countries.  “We are exploring opportunities in China where there is
still vast potential with incomes rising,” Kriengchai said.
“Laos, Myanmar,  Vietnam  and  Cambodia  are also on the company’s
expansion plan with their underdeveloped retail industry.”  China overtook Japan to become the second-largest economy
last year and Premier Wen Jiabao is promoting domestic
consumption to bolster growth and cut reliance on exports.  CP All plans to increase sales of ready-to-eat meals such
as hamburgers, sandwiches and bakery products, which yield
higher margins, to bolster earnings growth, said Kriengchai.  Shares of CP All have added 1.9 percent this year,
extending a 58 percent rally in 2010 and more than doubling in
value in 2009. Chairman Dhanin, 71, was  Thailand ’s richest
 person  with estimated assets of $6.5 billion, according to
Forbes magazine’s  annual global ranking  released last month.  Eyes Election Boost  CP All expects to benefit from an expected jump in domestic
spending ahead of national elections as Thai Prime Minister
Abhisit Vejjajiva’s government accelerates investment in public
works and other programs to lure voters, Kriengchai said.  “Historically, there has been a boost in  consumer spending 
ahead of the general elections,” he said. “Consumers probably
have more money and confidence to spend with more  money supply 
from election-related programs.”  Abhisit has said he’ll dissolve Parliament in early May to
trigger an election about six months before his term ends. The
prime minister last month pledged policies to help families cope
with rising fuel and food costs that threaten to undermine his
Democrat party’s poll gains and said he aims “to help put money
in people’s pockets.”  CP All, which opened its first store in 1989, posted
revenue of 135 billion baht ($4.5 billion) last year. Net income
climbed 33 percent to 6.66 billion baht. The company is the
largest operator by number of outlets of Tokyo-based Seven & I
Holdings Co.’s 7-Eleven stores after  Japan  and the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  