-- 
Blockbuster’s Highest Bid Is From Dish Network, Icahn Second, Lawyer Says

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-05T15:29:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/blockbuster-s-highest-bid-is-from-dish-icahn-second-as-auction-starts.html
Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) ’s auction to sell
its movie rental business began as  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  made the
highest of five different bids, with the offers pitting
liquidators against buyers who would reorganize the bankrupt
company.  The second highest bid as the auction began was from
billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  and a team of four liquidators,
Blockbuster lawyer Stephen Karotkin said in Manhattan court
today.  Cobalt Video, a venture between lenders including  Monarch
Alternative Capital LP , which had made a “stalking horse” bid,
had offered the highest bid as of 11 a.m., when the auction was
broken off to evaluate the various offers.  SK Telecom Co. also bid for Blockbuster, as did corporate
liquidators Gordon Brothers Group LLC and Hilco Merchant
Resources LLC. Icahn’s offer was from a group that included
 Great American Group Inc. (GAMR) , Tiger Capital Group LLC, Hudson
Capital Partners LLC and SB Capital Group LLC, Karotkin said.  “We spent hours into the early morning analyzing the
bids,” Karotkin told a packed courtroom where the formal
auction began this morning, to take overbids in $1 million
increments.  The auction started with Dish’s bid, of $284 million, which
would give $142.6 million to lenders who rolled up their debt to
give Blockbuster a loan in bankruptcy, and cover $39.9 million
in liabilities. Icahn’s bid, of $280.9 million, would give
$134.5 million to roll up lenders, and assume $11.5 million in
liabilities, Karotkin said.  Blockbuster spokesman Michael Freitag said the opening bids
for today’s auction appeared lower than the Cobalt group’s $290
million stalking horse bid because of adjustments for cash,
inventory, expenses, and varying amounts that the bidders have
offered to pay in liabilities to movie studios.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  