-- 
Blockbuster Gets $310.6 Million Icahn Bid, Exceeding Dish Network's Offer

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-06T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/blockbuster-gets-307-1-million-bid-from-dish-network-icahn-is-in-second.html
Investor Carl Icahn and a group of
liquidators made a $310.6 million bid for  Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) ’s
movie rental business, bettering a $307.1 million bid from  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)   SK Telecom Co., based in  Seoul , won’t place another bid and
said its prior cash bid of $284.5 million is superior to other
bids because it takes on more liabilities for movie studios and
covers other costs.  “Our desire has been to acquire this business as a going
concern: to preserve relationships with the studios, preserve
stores, and relationships with suppliers,” said David Feldman,
a lawyer with Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, who represents SK
Telecom.  Because SK’s offer would give another $49.5 million to
three major motion picture studios -- Sony Corp., Universal
Studios Inc. and NewsCorp’s Fox -- its cash offer shouldn’t be
seen as comparable with those of other bidders, Feldman said. SK
Telecom would also assume $11.5 million in liabilities to all of
Blockbuster’s studio partners.  The auction continued into the evening yesterday.  Cobalt Video, a venture between lenders including  Monarch
Alternative Capital LP , had made a $290 million “stalking
horse” bid. Corporate liquidators Gordon Brothers Group LLC and
Hilco Merchant Resources LLC also bid. Icahn’s offer was from a
group that included  Great American Group Inc. (GAMR) , Tiger Capital
Group LLC, Hudson Capital Partners LLC and SB Capital Group LLC,
Karotkin said.  Icahn, who attended the auction, declined to comment when
asked what he’ll do with the company if he wins it.  Start of Auction  The auction started with Dish’s bid of $284 million, which
would give $142.6 million to lenders who rolled up their debt to
give Blockbuster a loan in bankruptcy, and cover $39.9 million
in liabilities. Icahn’s first bid, of $280.9 million, would give
$134.5 million to roll up lenders, and assume $11.5 million in
liabilities, Blockbuster lawyer Stephen Karotkin said.  The opening bids appeared lower than the Cobalt group’s
stalking horse bid because of adjustments for cash, inventory,
expenses, and varying amounts that the bidders have offered to
pay in liabilities to movie studios, Blockbuster spokesman
Michael Freitag said.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  