-- 
Boehringer Ingelheim Income Fell 15% as Research Costs Rose

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-04-05T15:31:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/boehringer-ingelheim-says-2010-operating-income-fell-15-.html
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, the
world’s biggest family-owned drugmaker, said operating income
fell 15 percent last year as spending on research rose and
patent losses drove a drop in U.S. drug sales.  Operating income was 1.9 billion euros ($2.7 billion),
compared with 2.24 billion euros a year earlier, the Ingelheim,
Germany-based company said in a  statement  today. Operating
income is comparable to earnings before interest and taxes.  Boehringer is relying on new drugs such as the blood
thinner Pradaxa, approved in the U.S. in October, to replace
revenue lost to generic competition. Sales in the Americas fell
8.5 percent to 5.7 billion euros last year. Meanwhile,
Boehringer boosted spending on research and development by 11
percent to 2.45 billion euros.  “Pradaxa will contribute” to next year’s growth, Chief
Executive Officer Andreas Barner said in an interview in
Ingelheim today. Boehringer will again spend about 24 percent of
its drug sales on research this year, as it did last year,
Barner said.  The privately held drugmaker beat Bayer AG,  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  to market with
Pradaxa, the first pill to replace the half-century-old blood
thinner warfarin. About 180,000 U.S. patients will be taking the
drug by summer, Barner said today. Boehringer declined to
disclose sales.  The drugmaker said it expects total sales to rise in the
mid-single-digit percentage-point range next year.  Diabetes Drug  After Pradaxa, the closest drug to market with the most
sales potential is diabetes treatment linagliptin, Barner said.
Boehringer agreed in January to partner with  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  on
diabetes drugs. The companies expect the first regulatory
approvals for linagliptin by mid-year, Barner said.  “It’s a fairly crowded market without any question,” he
said, adding that together Boehringer and Indianapolis-based
Lilly will be a “strong player.”  The German drugmaker isn’t looking for more strategic
partnerships as broad in scope as the Lilly deal, Barner said.  Boehringer is open to drug-by-drug cooperation with other
companies in the area of hepatitis C, where it’s testing a
protease inhibitor, similar to AIDS-fighting medicines, in late-
stage trials together with the standard therapy of interferon
and generic ribavirin, he said. A drug combination in earlier
trials would replace the standard interferon therapy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  