-- 
Boeing Tanker Contract Changes Will Need High-Level Review

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-04-05T21:07:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/boeing-tanker-contract-will-need-high-level-review-for-changes.html
The U.S.  Air Force  won’t allow
changes to  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s air refueling tanker contract of more
than $30 billion without “high-level” review from Pentagon
leadership, Air Force Secretary Michael Donley said.  Donley said today that he is drafting a memorandum that
will spell out Pentagon leaders’ involvement in reviewing any
changes to the contract. He also said the Air Force has
discussed the issue with Boeing.  Altering the program may increase manufacturing costs, so
Boeing has “the same interest” as the Air Force in avoiding
changes, Donley told reporters at a roundtable in Washington.  Boeing on Feb. 24 beat the European Aeronautic Defence &
Space Co. for a contract to build a fleet of 179 new aerial
refueling tankers.  Boeing’s bid price for the 179 airplanes was $20.6 billion
in today’s dollars, compared with EADS’s offer of $22.6 billion,
EADS North America Chairman Ralph D. Crosby said March 4 when
his company announced that it would not protest the award to
Boeing.  Taking into account inflation over the life of the project,
EADS’s offer was equivalent to $35.1 billion, compared with
Boeing’s $31.5 billion, according to Crosby.  Boeing hasn’t disclosed its bid price.  The Air Force on Feb. 24 awarded Boeing an initial
development order valued at $3.5 billion. The first 18 airplanes
are due by 2017, Donley said. The Air Force signed a fixed-
price, incentive-fee contract with Boeing.  “Our commitment is to perform to schedule and on cost and
that is what we intend to do,” William Barksdale, a spokesman
for Boeing’s tanker program, said in an e-mailed statement.  Issues are sure to arise, he said, “and as they arise, we
will work closely with the Air Force to resolve them. We expect
minimal contract change activity on this program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  