-- 
BofA Was Pressed by SEC for Disclosures on Reserves for Mortgage Buybacks

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-05T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/bofa-was-pressed-by-sec-for-disclosures-on-reserves-for-mortgage-buybacks.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , in an
exchange of letters with U.S. regulators that lasted over a
year, was pressed for information and expanded disclosure about
its reserves to cover the cost of buying back faulty home loans.  “Discuss the level and type of repurchase requests you
are receiving, and any trends that have been identified,
including your success rates in avoiding settling the claim,”
the Securities and Exchange Commission said in a Jan. 29, 2010,
letter to the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank that was
released yesterday. “Tell us and disclose in future filings how
you establish repurchase reserves for various representations
and warranties that you have made.”  Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender, said Jan. 21 this
year that resolving disputes could cost as much as $7 billion to
$10 billion more, after setting aside $4.1 billion in the fourth
quarter. Regulators are scrutinizing the ability of the bank,
and competitors including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
to deal with accusations that mortgage investors were duped into
buying loans issued with overstated property values and inflated
borrowers’ incomes.  The 2010 document was one of at least a dozen letters
exchanged by the regulator and Bank of America over disclosures
tied to credit cards, home-equity loans and the establishment of
reserves. The SEC said Feb. 18 that it had reviewed the
company’s filings, including one on Jan. 21 of this year, and
had no further comments. Such correspondence is typically
released about six weeks after an SEC review is complete.  ‘It’s Not Unusual’  “It’s not unusual for the SEC to have questions about our
regulatory filings and as the letters indicate we responded to
those questions and the issues appear to be resolved,” Bank of
America spokesman  Jerry Dubrowski  said in a phone interview.  In February, Bank of America said a bondholder group
pressuring the lender to repurchase soured mortgages has almost
doubled the number of securitizations being challenged. There
are 225 securitizations in dispute with the group, compared with
115 as of Oct. 18, the bank said in a Feb. 25 filing.  Regulators have asked other banks to improve disclosures
tied to mortgage-repurchase reserves. The SEC released
correspondence with Citigroup and Wells Fargo last month showing
officials had questions about the reserves going back to at
least April of last year.  The SEC asked the banks to use future filings to “more
thoroughly discuss the risks and uncertainties associated with
developing your estimated liability for representations and
warranties,” according to the letters to Citigroup and Wells
Fargo, which contained the same language.  Subsequent letters to all three banks asked them to discuss
trends, explain how they plan to counter repurchase demands and
to disclose a range of possible losses.  The SEC said in a Jan. 18 letter that it had completed its
review of Wells Fargo’s disclosures, and told Citigroup the same
in a Feb. 2 letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  