-- 
Bonello Says Risks to ECB’s Growth Projections on ‘Downside’

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-04-05T10:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/bonello-says-risks-to-ecb-s-growth-projections-on-downside-1-.html
European Central Bank council member
Michael Bonello said there are reasons to be cautious about the
economic outlook in the euro area.  While there are signs that the recovery is “increasingly
broad-based and more self-sustained,” risks to the ECB’s growth
projections “are on the downside,” Bonello, who also heads the
Bank of Malta, said during an April 4 briefing in Valetta.
“There are several reasons to believe that things may not go
the way projections are indicating.”  When the ECB published its latest economic forecasts on
March 3, predicting growth of 1.7 percent this year and 1.8
percent in 2012, it described risks to the outlook as being
“broadly balanced.” Since then, a massive earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan  and political unrest in North Africa and the
Middle East have increased global economic uncertainty.  “There are too many potential sources of instability
around, with the latest of course being Japan and the problems
in the Mediterranean, so it’s difficult to make predictions at
this stage,” Bonello said.  Greater uncertainty over the outlook may limit the extent
of ECB rate increases this year.  Rate Increase  The central bank has indicated it may raise its benchmark
rate from a record low of 1 percent this week to stem inflation,
which has been in breach of its 2 percent limit since December.
Investors expect two further quarter-point increases by the end
of the year, taking the key rate to 1.75 percent, Eonia forward
contracts show.  Bonello didn’t comment on ECB rates in line with the one-
week communication blackout period ahead of a policy meeting.
Officials convene in  Frankfurt  on April 7.  Bonello dismissed as “fantasy” press reports suggesting
Malta, with a  budget deficit  of less than 4 percent of gross
domestic product last year, may need a European Union bailout.  At the same time, he said the government needs to cut
spending and should consider introducing means-based user fees
for some social services that are now free to all.  The government’s goal of getting the budget deficit down to
2.2 percent of GDP next year is realistic, Bonello said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  at   abdavis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  