-- 
BP to Invest Almost $2 Billion in 2011 on Alternative Energy, Landis Says

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-04-05T22:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/bp-boosts-to-2-billion-its-2011-investment-plan-for-renewable-energy.html
BP Plc will invest almost $2 billion
this year in alternative energy, more than the London-based  oil
company  has previously stated, said Katrina Landis, chief
executive of the company’s low-carbon unit.  BP had pledged to invest $8 billion over 10 years when it
started its BP Alternative Energy plan in 2005, an average of
$800 million a year. By the end of last year, it had invested $5
billion, Landis said at a conference in  New York  today.  “We have many interesting opportunities to continue the
development of those businesses which will take us well beyond
that $8 billion in 10 years,” Landis said.  Biofuels will have a “tremendous opportunity” to expand
in the next decade, and the company also is building businesses
in wind and solar energy. Landis said she’s also interested in
battery technology.  “Provided that we continue bringing forward projects that
meet our return criteria, we will continue to invest,” she
said.  Landis urged U.S. government officials to make clear what
incentives will be available for  renewable energy  after tax
credits expire in 2012.  “Industry pauses and says what are the rules of the game
going to be beyond that time,” she said. “You’re not going to
invest large amounts of capital without understanding the return
you’re going to get.”  Italy , U.K.  The company had waited on some of its European solar
projects until incentive policy became clear, Landis said in an
interview at the conference. That included 50 megawatts of solar
projects in Italy. The Italian government is curbing subsidies
to undercut a boom in the industry and plans to issue new
targets and reduce incentive rates from June.  The company is also unlikely to develop large solar
projects in the U.K. after the Conservative-led government
proposed cuts in above-market prices paid for solar projects
that targeted bigger reductions at larger plants, Landis said.  “I’m not sure then there is sufficient profit left for the
larger installations to attract companies like BP,” she said.  BP developed a number of projects in  Spain  last year that
became subject to cuts to the so-called feed-in tariff in that
country, Landis said. “That’s a really difficult proposition
for a business, when you actually put capital on the ground and
suddenly all the rules change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell at the BNEF Summit at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  