-- 
BP Says Fine Doesn’t Have to Be Based on Spill Amount

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-04-21T22:50:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/bp-spill-partners-seek-smaller-civil-fine-for-gulf-oil-spill.html
(Corrects description of BP’s legal argument starting in
first paragraph of story published April 5.)  BP Plc (BP/)  said the U.S. could calculate
its pollution fine for last year’s  Gulf of Mexico   oil spill 
based on how long the damaged well gushed, not on how many
barrels of crude it discharged.  The Obama administration in December sued BP and other
companies involved in the worst offshore oil spill in U.S.
history, seeking a civil penalty based on the more than 4.1
million barrels of oil it said spilled into the gulf after the
Deepwater Horizon rig blew up off the Louisiana coast in April
2010, killing 11 people. The gusher was capped July 15 and
permanently sealed Sept. 19.  BP said in a filing yesterday in federal court in  New
Orleans  that the government could assess a fine based on the
days the well was in violation of the Clean Water Act, an
alternative method to the way the U.S. said it plans to
calculate the penalty. The difference amounts to billions of
dollars.  In its complaint, the U.S. said it will seek civil
penalties of $1,000 for each barrel of oil spilled, or in the
case of negligence or willful misconduct, as much as $4,300 a
barrel from the companies involved, as provided under the law.
London-based BP has denied acting in a way that would trigger
the higher per-barrel fine. The company didn’t specify what the
penalty would be under its calculation.  Alternative Penalty  The  Clean Water Act  provides a fine of $32,500 for each day
of violation as an alternative to the per-barrel spill
assessment, said David Uhlmann, former head of the U.S. Justice
Department’s environmental-crimes unit.  Laura Sweeney , a
department spokeswoman, declined in an e-mail to comment on BP’s
filing.  “Where there is such a wide discrepancy between what the
per-day and per-barrel fines will be, there is no question that
the government will seek fines based on the number of barrels
released,” said Uhlmann, who teaches law at the  University of
Michigan . “Any settlement between the government and BP will be
based on the per-barrel fine numbers.”  Calculated by the day, BP’s fine could range from $2.8
million using the date the well was capped to $4.9 million using
the date the well was permanently sealed. Calculated by the
number of barrels discharged, BP faces a fine ranging from more
than $4 billion to as much as $20 billion, depending on the
degree of negligence determined, according to figures supplied
by Uhlmann.  ‘Multiple Billions’  “By BP’s method, we’re talking about a fine in single-
digit millions versus a fine of multiple billions” using the
government’s method, Uhlmann said.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC, BP’s
partners in the well, filed papers late yesterday also denying
that they acted with negligence or willful misconduct and
repeating their position that BP should pay the full cost of the
spill. Anadarko holds a 25 percent stake in the well, and MOEX,
a unit of Mitsui & Co., holds 10 percent.  The government is seeking a judicial declaration that BP,
Anadarko, MOEX and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the rig owner, are jointly
“liable without limitation” for all cleanup and restoration
costs and the pollution fines.  BP has admitted legal responsibility for damage caused by
the spilled oil and set aside $20 billion to compensate injured
parties and pay cleanup and restoration costs.  BP said in its filing yesterday that it believes other
companies involved in the well should share remediation costs
and fines, based on the ultimate apportionment of fault for the
disaster. The company also said any cleanup and restoration
costs the U.S. charges BP should be reduced by whatever sums BP
has paid or will pay state governments for those same services.  The case is U.S. vs. BP Exploration & Production Inc.,
2:10-cv-4536, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana 
(New Orleans). Yesterday’s filing was in In re Oil Spill by the
Oil Rig ‘Deepwater Horizon’ in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20,
2010, 2:10-md-02179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.com ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  