-- 
British Airways, Poland's LOT Suspend Egypt Flights as Unrest Hurts Demand

-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-04-05T15:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/british-airways-poland-s-lot-suspend-egypt-flights-as-unrest-hurts-demand.html
British Airways and Polish carrier
LOT said they’ll cut routes to  Egypt  and Air France revealed it
will reduce frequencies in North Africa as political turmoil in
Arab states hurts demand for air travel.  British Airways will scrap flights to the Red Sea resort of
Sharm El-Sheikh from May 2, according to spokeswoman Cathy West.
Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA will halt services to Cairo on the
same date through June 30, it said today in a statement.  BA is exiting Sharm El-Sheikh for “commercial reasons,”
West said, while LOT, which will also suspend flights to Beirut
and Damascus, cited “lower levels of passenger interest” amid
“the unstable social-political situations in the region.”  Passenger numbers on routes to the Middle East and  Africa 
slumped 2.5 percent last month versus a year earlier, even as
the overall total rose 6.3 percent, International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, the parent company of British Airways, said
today. Air France has adjusted its timetable to take account of
lower demand in North Africa, spokeswoman Brigitte Barrand said.  British Airways had introduced its service from  London ’s
Gatwick airport to Sharm El-Sheikh in October 2009. The carrier,
which merged with Spain’s Iberia to form IAG in January, will
retain flights from London Heathrow to Cairo, West said.  LOT  said operations to the Egyptian capital have been
especially disrupted because of limits on night flying. The
Warsaw-based company will suspend services to Lebanon from May 7
through June 23 and to  Syria  from May 12 through June 20.  Redeployed  Air France’s revised summer schedule features fewer
frequencies to Tunisia, Ivory Coast and Egypt -- as well as
Libya, which is currently subject to a no-fly zone -- Barrand
said by telephone. The capacity freed up has been redeployed to
growth markets such as Brazil and  China , and overall seating is
“virtually unchanged,” she said.  “Air France is of course regularly monitoring its flight
figures and may reexamine its schedule during the season
depending on how the situation evolves,” Barrand said.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest airline, has
no plans to alter its flight schedules to the Middle East,
spokesman Boris Ogursky said in a telephone interview.  Unrest in Arab states cut global traffic by about 1 percent
in February, the International Air Transport Association said
March 29. Carriers in African countries, including Egypt and
 Tunisia , suffered most, with traffic dropping 13 percent
compared with January levels, the industry group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  