-- 
Brown Plans California Drive to Keep Taxes as New Cuts Loom

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-04-05T20:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/brown-plans-california-campaign-to-keep-taxes-as-new-cuts-loom.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  said
he’ll propose a new budget next month and plans to campaign in
Republican districts to win support for a statewide referendum
to retain $9.3 billion of higher taxes and fees.  The plan will show how he intends to erase the most-
populous U.S. state’s remaining $15.4 billion deficit, said
Brown, 72. The Democrat will outline his new budget May 14. By
tradition, that’s when California governors update their initial
spending measures with the latest revenue projections.  Brown will begin a series of events around the state to
persuade voters that Republican lawmakers are wrong to block his
plan to extend expiring tax and fee increases for five more
years to prevent deeper spending cuts to schools and public
safety. The temporary increases are set to end in June.  “The minority holds the key here and we simply have to
call upon their sense of loyalty to the people of  California  to
help,” Brown told reporters today.  A tax extension formed the cornerstone of the governor’s
January deficit-cutting proposal and he sought a June referendum
on the issue with Republican support. Last month, Brown said he
had broken off negotiations for a statewide vote after being
presented with a widening list of Republican demands. By law,
lawmakers need a two-thirds majority to pass tax increase, which
Democrats lack even though the party controls the Legislature.  Selling ‘Gimmicks’  “Rather than continuing to negotiate with Senate
Republican Leader Bob Dutton on a bi-partisan budget with long-
term solutions, Governor Brown is going on a dog-and-pony show
to sell voters on short-term gimmicks and $50 billion in tax
increases,” said Jann Taber, a Dutton spokeswoman.  Brown took office in January on a pledge to repair
financial strains that have left California with the lowest
state credit rating, A-, from  Standard & Poor’s . He and
Democrats already have approved some budget bills to reduce what
was a $26.6 billion deficit through June 2012 by cutting
spending by $8.2 billion and borrowing $3 billion internally.  The governor wants voters to pass extensions of a 0.25
percentage-point increase in personal income-tax rates; a 1
percentage-point boost in the retail-sales levy, to 8.25
percent; an increase in auto-registration fees of 0.5 percentage
point, to 1.15 percent of a vehicle’s value; and a reduction of
the state’s annual child tax credit to $99 from $309.  Timing for Budget  Brown had sought a June referendum on the tax extensions so
he would know the outcome before the start of the fiscal year
July 1. Brown has said that without the extensions, he would be
forced to make deeper spending cuts.  In a series of events for voters, Brown said he plans to
explain what will happen if he has to make more cuts. One stop
will be Riverside County, home to Dutton of Rancho Cucamonga.  “Governor Brown will be speaking frankly and directly with
the people of California about the budget,” said Gil Duran, a
Brown spokesman.  “The Inland Empire is facing serious hits to education,
public safety and other core needs as a result of Republican
obstruction in  Sacramento , so it is a place Governor Brown plans
to visit,” Duran said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  