-- 
BT’s Fiber Pricing May Damage U.K. Broadband Rollout, Rivals Say

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-04-05T16:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/bt-s-fiber-pricing-may-damage-u-k-broadband-rollout-rivals-say.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) ’s pricing for access to
fiber lines in its high-speed network may harm U.K. government
plans for broadband rollout to rural areas and undermine
competition, according to rivals including  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  and
 TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc. (TALK)   The companies wrote to the government asking it to
intervene over pricing and said it would be more cost effective
to build a separate network to BT’s ducts and poles than to pay
the operator’s charges, according to a copy of the letter
obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Urgent intervention is now needed to require BT to
quickly revise the pricing of the proposed product,” the
companies said in the letter. The government process “risks a
lack of vigorous competition and as a result, will fail to
deliver the investment.”  In October, regulator Ofcom ordered London-based BT,
Britain’s largest phone company, to allow competitors to control
fiber lines through a “virtual link” or deploy their own fiber
via BT’s underground ducts and overhead telegraph poles.  BT has said it intends to bid for government funding to
extend its fiber network into more than 90 percent of U.K.
premises. The U.K. will offer about 800 million pounds ($1.3
billion) in funding to help extend a high-speed network into
rural areas. A total of 500 million pounds is already available.  “Our proposed prices for duct access compare very well
with European averages whilst our plans for pole access have
been held up due to others delaying our trials,” BT said in an
e-mailed statement.  The U.K. culture department said the companies are
currently examining BT’s offer. A “competitive marketplace is
important for the rollout of super-fast broadband,” the
department said.  A TalkTalk spokesman confirmed that the company signed a
copy of the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  