-- 
Buy Rand, Sell Lira as as Turkey to Hold Back on Rates, BNP Paribas Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-05T12:05:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/buy-rand-sell-lira-as-as-turkey-to-hold-back-on-rates-bnp-paribas-says.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA advised clients to
buy  South Africa ’s rand and sell lira on expectations Turkey’s
central bank will hold back from raising interest rates,
reducing the Turkish currency’s carry-trade appeal.  Investors should buy the rand above 4.39 per lira, with a
target of 4 rand per lira and a stop-loss order at 4.45, BNP
Paribas analysts led by London-based Paul Mortimer-Lee wrote in
a research note. The Turkish currency weakened to 4.3844 rand by
1:48 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Growth in  Africa ’s largest economy is gathering steam as
commodity prices rise, boosting demand for rand to buy shares in
the country’s miners and raw material producers. In Turkey,
inflation at a record low may induce the central bank to keep
 interest rates  on hold, the BNP Paribas analysts wrote. The
country’s inflation rate unexpectedly fell to 4 percent, the
lowest since July 1970, in March, the state statistics agency
said yesterday.  “We continue to express our relative bullishness on the
rand by advocating for short lira-rand trades,” the analysts
wrote. “Yesterday’s downside surprise in Turkey’s CPI number
will push back expectations of a return to tightening by the CBT
and should result in some weakening of the lira.”  BNP Paribas’ view contrasts with Credit Suisse, which on
March 23 advised clients to buy lira and sell rand at around
4.44 rand per lira, with a target of 4.73.  The rand has declined 2.1 percent against the Turkish
currency this year after strengthening 15 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net 
NI SAFRI
NI AFRICA
NI MEAF
NI EM
NI FRX
NI BON
NI SJB
NI AME
NI FXMARKET
NI MARKETS
NI EUROPE
NI MIDEAST
NI TURKEY 