-- 
California Pension-Padding Exploits Loopholes for Thousands of Retirees

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-04-08T23:26:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/california-city-is-ground-zero-for-pension-battle-after-worker-suicide.html
(Corrects hometown of Righeimer in 11th paragraph of story
published April 5.)  Republican activist  Jim Righeimer 
fought unions for two decades before getting elected in November
to the City Council in  Costa Mesa , the Southern  California  city
that’s home to the second-largest shopping mall in the U.S.  He’s now trying to fire almost half of Costa Mesa’s
municipal employees to rein in what he calls unsustainable
pension costs in the city of 116,000, about 40 miles (64
kilometers) south of Los Angeles.  On the recommendation of Righeimer and Mayor  Gary Monahan ,
the council voted March 1 to send termination notifications to
213 employees, 45 percent of the workforce. The news was made
even sadder when Huy Pham, a 29-year-old maintenance worker,
jumped to his death from City Hall on March 17 after being
called in to receive his notice.  Costa Mesa Police Sergeant Patrick Wessel said that while
the case was still being investigated, all indications are that
it was a suicide. Righeimer, in an interview, called the
incident a “tragedy.” The first council meeting since Pham’s
death is set for today.  With governments across the country facing deficits, Costa
Mesa has become a focal point for advocates of reform.
Righeimer’s strategy has won praise from Scott Baugh, chairman
of the  Orange County Republican Party .  “What Jim does to a budget, he pulls it apart, he examines
the details,” Baugh said, according to a  video  of his speech at
a Tea Party event in Costa Mesa March 23. “We don’t have enough
elected officials that have the talent.”  Shrink Government  Righeimer’s efforts are part of a larger movement to shrink
government and reduce union influence, Baugh said. “Ground zero
is right here in Costa Mesa for this revolution,” he said.
Baugh didn’t return phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  “I think we’re putting the city through a lot of
unnecessary stress and strain,” said Sandra Genis, a former
Costa Mesa mayor and councilwoman in the 1980s and 1990s. “You
don’t give notice to that much of your workforce without doing
studies.”  Genis, a Republican who said her dog is named after the
late conservative commentator William F. Buckley Jr., is calling
for the council to rescind the dismissals.  “I used to say no one council member can really wreck a
city,” she said. “Now I’m saying, they’re wrecking my city.”  Righeimer grew up in the Chicago suburb of Lincolnshire,
 Illinois . His father is a retired school teacher. After moving
to Los Angeles and getting a business degree from  Pepperdine
University , Righeimer began building houses in  Southern
California . The real estate bust of the early 1990s left him $7
million in debt. The experience taught him how cash shortfalls
compound if not addressed quickly, he said.  Union Opposition  Righeimer co-wrote a measure to prevent unions from
withdrawing campaign funds from worker paychecks without first
getting their individual permission in 1998 and ran for the
state Assembly two years later. In both cases, union opposition
led to losses, he said.  Costa Mesa’s police and firefighters campaigned against his
City Council run last year, distributing mailers to residents
noting that he had judgments and liens against him. Righeimer
said those things weren’t uncommon for developers during the
housing bust.  He was the top vote getter in the Nov. 2  election , winning
about 13,000 votes or 32 percent of those cast.  The dismissals of city workers aren’t definite. The city
has requested bids from companies. The city had to give six
months notice because union agreements require that much warning
if jobs are being outsourced, Righeimer said.  Proposed Cuts  The proposed cuts are needed because the city has drawn
down $35 million of its reserves in two years, its pension costs
have risen from $5 million to $15 million in the past 10 years,
and will climb to $25 million during the next five years,
Righeimer said.  Helen Nenadal, a 51-year-old maintenance technician who
heads the city’s union for civilian employees and is on the list
to be let go, said she doesn’t believe Righeimer and the other
council members who voted for the cuts are considering
alternatives.  “They’re on a mission and they’re going full blast,” she
said. “They’re trying to say it’s a budget issue. I fully
believe it’s not a budget issue.”  Costa Mesa is home to the 2.7-million-square-foot South
Coast Plaza,  second  only to the Mall of America near
 Minneapolis , according to the Directory of Major Malls in Nyack,
 New York . South Coast’s  website  says the retail center “defines
the luxury shopping experience.” Median  household income  in the
city was $65,000 in 2009, compared with $58,900 for California
as a whole, according to  City-Data.com .  ‘Very Strong’  “It’s a wealthy area and it’s been fairly stable when you
look at the tax base,” said Jennifer Hansen, an analyst with
 Standard & Poor’s  in  San Francisco , in an interview. Costa
Mesa’s AA rating, the firm’s third-highest, reflects what she
called a “very strong financial position.”  Wendy Leece, a 62-year-old Republican and the only council
member to vote against the terminations, said she felt the city
hadn’t done enough analysis to justify the cuts.  “I’m a teacher, I like to do my homework,” she said in a
telephone interview.  She said she is also skeptical of the estimates of the
city’s deficit and pension costs that Righeimer has been using.  “Why does Righeimer keep saying $15 million” as the size
of the deficit, she said. “It’s his wish list, it’s not real
numbers.”  Deficit Estimate  Thomas Hatch, the city’s chief executive, said in an
interview that Costa Mesa has a deficit of $1.4 million this
fiscal year, which will be eliminated by ending a police
helicopter program July 1. The estimate for the general-fund
deficit next year is $5 million, although additional items
suggested by council members such as street improvements and
computer investments could bring it to $15 million.  Ten years ago the  pension plan  for civilians was overfunded
and the city didn’t make contributions, according to Costa
Mesa’s budget and research officer Bobby Young. Pension
estimates the city has been using don’t contain the latest
contribution rates from the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , he said. Nor do they include union givebacks
negotiated last year that will expire in two to four years.  Righeimer said he doubts Costa Mesa’s unions will agree to
the kind of concessions necessary to reduce the city’s pension
liabilities long term.  “We’re $134 million short,” he said. “If you’re going in
the wrong direction, you have to stop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  