-- 
Cisco CEO Chambers Plans Changes to Fix Lost Credibility

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-04-05T23:43:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/chambers-says-cisco-will-make-targeted-moves-to-fix-its-lost-credibility-.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Chambers , after reporting disappointing earnings
four quarters in a row, will makes changes aimed at regaining
the company’s lost credibility and sharpening its focus.  “You will see Cisco make a number of targeted moves in the
coming weeks,” Chambers said yesterday in a memo to employees
at the  San Jose , California-based company. He didn’t give
details on what form the changes would take.  In the 1,500-word message, Chambers depicted a company that
has lost focus and been slow to make decisions. Cisco has seen
profitability erode and is struggling to meet sales growth goals
while pushing into 30 new businesses. Tackling additional
markets also has left Cisco vulnerable to rivals such as
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , which are moving
into its home turf.  “The acknowledgment that Cisco is having a few setbacks
suggests that change is probably a good thing,” said Brent Bracelin, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in  Portland ,
 Oregon . He has an “outperform” rating on the shares. “It
internally signals the head of the company is very focused on
addressing some of the issues that have resulted in where the
stock is at today.”  Disappointed, Confused  To help streamline the company, Chambers elevated Gary Moore to chief operating officer in February, creating a new
position. Cisco has shed the “accountability that has been a
hallmark of our ability to execute consistently” for customers
and investors, Chambers said in the memo. Cisco will embark on a
series of changes aimed at revamping leadership and making it
easier for customers and partners to work with Cisco, he said.  “We have disappointed our investors and we have confused
our employees,” Chambers, 61, said in the memo. “Bottom line,
we have lost some of the credibility that is foundational to
Cisco’s success -- and we must earn it back.”  The changes may include selling or spinning off Cisco’s
consumer business,  Ehud Gelblum , an analyst at Morgan Stanley in
New York, said in a report. That unit includes Pure Digital
Technologies Inc., the maker of the Flip video camera.  The company also might move more marketing dollars and
employees to its main routing, switching, data-center video and
collaboration business, while decreasing the focus on side
businesses, he said.  Overall Strategy  Chambers said Cisco’s fundamental strategy remains sound.
“It is aspects of our operational execution that are not,” he
said.  Investors view Cisco as a bellwether for the technology
industry because it dominates the market for equipment that
directs  Internet traffic .  Shareholders have grown impatient with the company’s
narrowing profit margins and sluggish sales growth, sending the
stock tumbling after each of the past four quarterly reports.
The day after the most recent earnings in February the stock
declined 14 percent.  At the time, Chief Financial Officer Frank Calderoni asked
investors to “bear with us a quarter or two” while management
works on bringing new lines of routers and switches to a higher
level of profitability.  Cisco’s gross margin, a measure of profitability, shrank to
60 percent in the fiscal second quarter, from 65 percent a year
earlier.  Stock Drop  Cisco shares have fallen 34 percent over the past year,
erasing about $49 billion in market value. Today, the stock rose
16 cents to $17.22 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The company has sought to reach a long-term goal of as much
as 17 percent annual revenue growth. To spur sales, Cisco has
introduced a new generation of networking equipment at the same
time as it pushes into dozens of other businesses, including
digital cameras, videoconferencing equipment and social-
networking tools.  This fiscal year, sales will grow as little as 9 percent as
Cisco faces lower spending from governments and market-share
losses in its television set-top box business, the company said
in February.  “There is a genuine recognition within Cisco that they
need to move faster and be more focused,” said Alkesh Shah, an
analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  