-- 
China, India Seeking Coal From South Africa, Universal Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-05T01:04:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/china-india-seeking-coal-from-south-africa-universal-says.html
China  and  India ,  Asia ’s two fastest-
growing economies, are seeking to invest in coal assets in  South
Africa  to diversify supplies after disruptions in output from
 Australia  and Indonesia, said Universal Coal Ltd.  “China gets most of its coal from Australia, but because
of the floods in Queensland, you’ll need time and money to
rebuild that,” said Tony Harwood, chairman of the Sydney-listed
developer of South African coal mines. “A new major market for
coal from South Africa is India.”  Floods in Australia’s Queensland state shut coal mines and
damaged infrastructure including ports and railroads, sending
prices to a two-year high. India competes with China for
supplies of coal, which is used for more than half of its power
generation capacity.  Mining companies in India, a Chinese mining company and one
in  South Korea  are in separate talks with Universal Coal for
take-off agreements or investment, Harwood said in an interview
at the Asian Mining Congress in Singapore.  India last year became the largest market for exports from
South Africa, traditionally the main source of high-quality coal
needed by western European power plants. Chinese investors are
shifting focus from Australia to higher-risk destinations
including Africa, Paul Murphy, head of Asia Pacific Mining &
Metals at Ernst & Young said last month.  Supplementary Supply  India’s coal deficit may triple over the next five to seven
years, a local unit of Moody’s Investors Service said in a
report in February.  South Africa, which produces coal used by power stations
and steelmakers, can supplement Indonesian supplies because of
its relative proximity to India, Harwood said.  Rains have also crimped coal output in Colombia and
 Indonesia , pushing up power-station coal prices at Australia’s
Newcastle port, an Asian benchmark, by about 26 percent over the
past six months to $122 a metric ton. The cost reached $138.50 a
ton in the week ended Jan. 14, the highest since September 2008.  Indonesia, the world’s largest exporter of power-plant coal,
is considering restrictions on mineral exports to safeguard its
economy.  India’s coal imports may rise to 600 million tons in 2030
from 2010’s 85 million tons, Kolkata-based mjunction services
Ltd., a web-based commodity trader, said in a February
presentation.  China purchased a record 165 million tons of coal in 2010
from countries including Australia and Indonesia, data from
Chinese customs show. Imports from Australia dropped 24 percent
in January from a year earlier.  --Xiao Yu. Editors: Alan Soughley, Keith Gosman  To contact the Bloomberg News Staff of this story:
Xiao Yu in  Singapore  at 
 yxiao@blooomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  