-- 
China’s Economy Will Maintain 7% to 8% Growth, Chalco Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-05T05:53:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/china-s-economy-will-maintain-7-to-8-growth-chalco-says-1-.html
China’s economy  will maintain
“stable” growth of 7 percent to 8 percent a year, supporting
demand for commodities including aluminum and copper, said a
senior official at Aluminum Corp. of  China  Ltd.  Demand for aluminum in the construction sector accounted for
more than 35 percent of total consumption last year and is
likely to maintain a similar level this year, vice-president Liu Xiangmin said at a conference in Singapore today.  “There are many large construction projects on the
national and town level in the 12th five-year plan,” he said.
“Demand will continue to grow.”  China’s manufacturing expanded for the first time in four
months in March from February, a report showed last week,
indicating that Premier  Wen Jiabao  is succeeding in sustaining
growth while cracking down on infaltion. The central bank will
boost  interest rates  again this quarter, according to all 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey on March 22.  Aluminum prices will increase as the price of oil stays
high, driving up energy costs, which account for more than 40
percent of the cost of making the metal, Liu said. “It’s a
classic case of prices being pushed up by cost pressures.”  “Substitution away from copper and steel in the
transportation sector will also support prices.”  Still, price gains will be limited by monetary tightening
efforts taken by the Chinese government to tackle inflation, Liu
said. Copper price increases will also be constrained by China’s
cooling measures, he said.  Copper around $10,000 is trading “far above cost, and we
believe prices will correct this year,” Liu said, without
elaborating.  Xiao Yu and Glenys Sim in  Singapore . Editors: Alan Soughley,
Andrew Hobbs  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Xiao Yu in Singapore at 
 yxiao@blooomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  