-- 
China Raises Interest Rates to Counter Inflation Pressure

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-05T13:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/china-raises-interest-rates-quarter-point-in-fourth-step-to-curb-inflation.html
China  raised interest rates for the
fourth time since the end of the global financial crisis to
restrain inflation and limit the risk of asset bubbles in the
fastest-growing major economy.  The benchmark one-year lending rate will increase to 6.31
percent from 6.06 percent, effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank
of China said on its  website  at the end of a national holiday.
The one-year deposit rate rises to 3.25 percent from 3 percent.  The move comes as a surprise to some, after Credit Suisse
Group AG, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America-Merrill Lynch said
officials may pause in tightening. While  Japan ’s disaster and
 Europe ’s debt woes are clouding the global outlook, Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government is more focused on the estimated 5 percent
jump in consumer prices last month, said analyst Shen Jianguang.  It’s “very significant” that China raised rates before
the March inflation data has even been announced, said Shen, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. who
formerly worked for the  International Monetary Fund  and the
 European Central Bank . “This is a good preemptive move.”  Crude extended its decline. Oil for May delivery on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  dropped as much as 97 cents to $107.50
a barrel and was at $107.95 at 12:45 p.m. London time.  ‘Hot Money’ Concern  Chinese officials may be on guard against increased inflows
of “hot money,” or speculative capital, as today’s move widens
the differential with rates in developed economies. In the U.S.,
the  Federal Reserve  has kept its benchmark near zero since
December 2008.  Qu Hongbin, chief economist for China at HSBC Holdings Plc
in Hong Kong, said a policy of “gradual” yuan appreciation
likely remains intact. The Chinese currency, described by the
U.S. as “substantially undervalued,” gained 4 percent against
the dollar in the past year and touched 6.5452 on April 1, the
strongest level since 1993.  Premier Wen last month described inflation as “a tiger”
that once set free will be difficult to cage, and also as a
potential threat to social stability. “Exorbitant” house price
increases in some cities are a top public concern, he said.  China’s inflation accelerated to 5.2 percent last month,
the fastest pace since July 2008, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of nine economists. Consumer
prices jumped 4.9 percent in February from a year earlier,
topping the government’s full-year target of 4 percent.  ‘Not Too Worried’  Today’s announcement contrasted with central bank Deputy
Governor Yi Gang saying March 23 that  interest rates  were at a
“comfortable” level and that he was “not too worried” by
inflation because price increases will slow in the second half
of the year. The interest-rate move may signal the government’s
confidence in the strength of an economy forecast by the  World
Bank  to expand 9 percent this year.  A purchasing managers’ index released April 1 indicated
that the world’s second-biggest economy is “growing smoothly,
with a very moderate slowdown,” Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
economist Lu Ting said that day.  Rising oil and commodity costs and sustained economic
growth may encourage Asian nations to keep boosting borrowing
costs even as Japan faces an economic contraction in the
aftermath of a record earthquake last month.  Vietnam , Taiwan,
 India , South Korea and Thailand raised benchmark rates in March
or April and Chinese officials have also drained cash from their
economy by raising bank reserve requirements.  Economists’ Forecasts  China’s key lending rate will rise to 6.56 percent by year-
end, with the deposit rate climbing to 3.5 percent, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists on
March 22. That suggests another 0.25 percentage point increase
in each.  Besides monetary tools, the government has deployed
subsidies, state food reserves and the threat of price controls
to counter inflation. Unilever, the world’s second-largest
consumer-goods maker, has postponed planned price increases at
the government’s request.  The benchmark one-year deposit rate has lagged behind the
pace of consumer-price gains, an incentive for households to
switch savings to asset markets, increasing the risk of bubbles
within the real-estate market.  --Marco Lui in  Hong Kong , Zheng Lifei in Beijing. With
assistance from Ed Lococo,  Jay Wang  and Sandy Hendry. Editors:
Paul Panckhurst, Kevin Costelloe.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lifei Zheng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  