-- 
China’s Crackdown on Human Rights Sparks Little Outcry in Washington

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-04-05T06:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/china-dissident-crackdown-sparks-scant-outcry-as-u-s-distracted-by-libya.html
China ’s latest crackdown on
dissidents has drawn scant outcry in Washington, with U.S.
officials distracted by military intervention in  Libya  and
doubtful that public denunciations will change China’s behavior.  The administration is “scared to death to speak out on
very sensitive issues” that might offend China and turn them
against U.S. policy on Libya, Rep. Randy Forbes, co-chairman of
the Congressional China Caucus, said in an interview yesterday.  On  Capitol Hill , likewise, legislators are reluctant to
devote energy to an issue that hasn’t grabbed the public’s
attention and isn’t tied directly to American jobs or the
budget, Forbes, a Virginia Republican, added.  Neither President  Barack Obama  nor Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  has singled out China for public criticism over
the latest wave of arrests, though both have said that they
always raise human rights in their private conversations with
Chinese officials.  Artist Ai Weiwei, who collaborated on the design for
Beijing’s Olympic stadium, is the latest high-profile critic of
the Chinese government who was reported detained. He was stopped
at Beijing’s airport on April 3 as he prepared to fly to  Hong
Kong , and his whereabouts since have not been disclosed by
Chinese authorities.  ‘Deeply Concerned’  Asked about Ai’s detention, State Department spokesman Mark Toner said yesterday the U.S. is “deeply concerned by the trend
of forced disappearances,” detentions and convictions of
activists in China.  The Delegation of the European Union to China issued a
statement today saying its attention had been brought to Ai’s
case. The EU is concerned by the “increasing use of arbitrary
detention against human rights defenders, lawyers and
activists,” according to the e-mailed statement.  The Chinese government’s latest wave of arrests has
coincided with a campaign by some dissidents to spark democracy
protests similar to those that have spread across North Africa
and the Middle East in recent months.  The administration and Congress should “make clear to the
Chinese government that this crackdown is unacceptable, wholly
in tension with international standards and Chinese law, and
will have serious consequences for the bilateral relationship,”
said Sophie Richardson, Asia advocacy director for  Human Rights
Watch , a New York-based watchdog group.  ‘Weak And Inconsistent’  Rep. Frank Wolf, a Virginia Republican and one the most
outspoken China critics on Capitol Hill, said in an interview
that he is appalled by the series of arrests. The Obama
administration has been “very, very weak and inconsistent and
ineffective on China,” he said.  Wolf said he doesn’t expect much from his colleagues in
Congress either, where he said neither party “has the heart to
take this issue on” or to press China to change its human
rights record by threatening punitive measures on trade or
currency.  Wolf, chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee on
commerce, justice and science, said he plans to ask U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk tough questions about China at a hearing
today.  Total U.S.-China trade totaled an estimated $459 billion in
2010, according to the  Congressional Research Service . China is
the second-largest U.S. trading partner, its third-largest
export market, and its biggest source of imports, the CRS said
in a Jan. 7 2011  report .  Many Distractions  Kenneth Lieberthal , director of the John L. Thornton China
Center at the  Brookings Institution , a policy center in
Washington, said the Obama administration is likely distracted
by turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East, the natural
disasters and nuclear crisis in  Japan , and the budget battle on
Capitol Hill.  Moreover, after “decades of this issue being on the
agenda, people in Washington may have greater appreciation of
the limitations of what can be accomplished by U.S. actions,”
he said.  “By lecturing the Chinese officials, it makes it, if
anything, more difficult for them to do anything that might
appear to be giving in to American pressure,” Lieberthal said.  China’s leaders govern 1.3 billion people based on
“concerns about their own domestic stability” and “they’re
not about to change their system because the U.S. tells them
to.”  Forbes, founder of the Congressional China Caucus, said he
and his colleagues plan to seek a meeting with Chinese
ambassador to  Washington , Zhang Yesui, to discuss their
concerns, though he said there’s little to gain from wielding
carrots or sticks as a trade-off for the Chinese government’s
behavior on human rights.  “We don’t want to be like little children who say, ‘If you
don’t stop doing that, we’re not going to play with you
anymore,’” Forbes said. “But we need to be much more willing
to step out and make statements when we think those positions
are right.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  