-- 
China Need to Acquire Africa Means Bid for Equinox Increases 18%: Real M&A

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h ,   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-04-05T20:18:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/china-need-to-acquire-africa-means-bid-for-equinox-increases-18-real-m-a.html
China ’s need to acquire metal
deposits in Africa is leading traders to bet that  Minmetals
Resources Ltd. (1208)  will increase its offer for Australia’s  Equinox
Minerals Ltd. (EQN)  more than any pending deal in  Asia .  Equinox rose to C$7.55 yesterday, 7.9 percent more than the
C$7-a-share offer from Minmetals, a unit of state-owned China
Minmetals Group. The level above the bid was the largest of any
takeover in Asia greater than $1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. UBS AG said fair value for a purchase of
Equinox is C$8.28, 18 percent higher than the original proposal.  The unsolicited bid of C$6.04 billion ($6.2 billion),
including net debt, would give Minmetals control of Perth-based
Equinox’s copper mine in Zambia after demand from China drove
the metal to a record price this year. The company is pursuing
China’s biggest mining takeover after the country helped rebuild
the Democratic Republic of Congo three years ago for access to
copper and cobalt.  Africa  will account for 9.8 percent of the
world’s copper output this year, UBS forecasts.  “The Chinese are back in the acquisition game,” said  John Stephenson , a Toronto-based  fund manager  at First Asset
Investment Management Inc. who helps oversee about C$2 billion
including Equinox shares. “Copper is a strategic metal and they
are very concerned about assuring their supply of materials that
will allow them to continue to compete internationally. They
want Equinox and they’re going to get it.”  Today’s Trading  Michael Vaughan, a spokesman for Equinox, declined to
comment. The company’s shares rose 1 cent to C$7.56 at 4:10 p.m.
today in Toronto.  Miche Paterson and Nick Maher, representatives for
Minmetals, weren’t available for comment.  Minmetals would gain access to Equinox’s Lumwana project in
Zambia, which processes about 20 million tons of ore per year
into a copper concentrate. Equinox is aiming to produce 145,000
tons of copper this year, according to its  website . Equinox also
bought the biggest copper deposit in  Saudi Arabia  in January,
and its first production is expected in 2012.  Minmetals of  Hong Kong  owns the world’s second-biggest zinc
mine and other assets in  Australia ,  Laos  and  Canada . Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Michelmore said in January he was
targeting acquisitions of copper, lead and zinc mines. Its
parent company is China’s biggest metals trader.  Copper Prices  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange traded at a record $10,190 a ton on Feb. 15. The metal,
which is used in electric cables and plumbing, will average
$9,750 this year and $10,150 in 2012, according to the median of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Mining companies
haven’t kept pace with demand because reserves are becoming
harder to find and the quality of ore is declining, meaning less
copper is extracted from each ton of rock.  Equinox closed 7.9 percent above Minmetals’ bid in Toronto
trading yesterday, the biggest gap for any pending deal
involving a company from developed markets in the Asia-Pacific
region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fair value for control of Equinox is about C$8.28 a share,
based on copper forecasts and the value of its assets, Onno Rutten, a Toronto-based analyst with UBS, wrote yesterday. A bid
of at least C$8 a share from Minmetals, which is seeking
approval from more than two-thirds of Equinox’s investors, may
be enough to get shareholders’ attention, according to David Davidson, an analyst at Paradigm Capital Inc. in Toronto.  “You can rest assured it’s not going to be C$7,” Davidson
said. “You probably have room to negotiate the price higher.”  Doubling Profit  Minmetals’ offer valued Equinox’s equity at 24 times
earnings, the most in a copper deal greater than $500 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. An acquisition at
yesterday’s closing price of C$7.55 would be worth 9.8 times
next year’s profit, which is projected to double from 2010 to a
record. That’s in line with the 9.73 median ratio for publicly
traded copper miners with market capitalizations greater than $1
billion, the data show.  It “will end up being a very attractive price for China’s
Minmetals,” said John Goldsmith, a Toronto-based fund manager
at Montrusco Bolton Investments Inc., which oversees about C$4.9
billion. “We’re dealing with a much higher copper price
environment right now.”  Africa’s copper production may grow as much as 10 percent
annually for the next five to 10 years, Tom Price, a commodity
analyst for UBS in Sydney, said in an interview.  China has been acquiring mining assets across the
continent. State-owned Jinchuan Group Ltd., China’s largest
platinum producer, agreed on takeover terms with Johannesburg-
based  Wesizwe (WEZ)  Platinum Ltd. in December. The deal includes a
debt commitment, giving Wesizwe $877 million to build its first
mine in  South Africa , the world’s largest supplier of platinum.  China Guangdong  China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group of Shenzhen, the
nation’s second-largest reactor builder, made a 756 million-
pound ($1.2 billion) bid for London-based  Kalahari Minerals Plc (KAH) 
last month that would give the state-owned company access to
 Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) ’s Husab uranium project in  Namibia .
Kalahari owns about 43 percent of Perth-based Extract.  The Equinox deal is China’s largest ever proposed takeover
of a mining company, and the 32 percent premium over the 20-day
trading average is the most a Chinese company has paid for a
mining deal greater than $500 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Minmetals has been studying Equinox for “well over a
year” and built a 4.2 percent stake in the company during 2010,
CEO Michelmore said on a media conference call this week.  Lundin Mining  Equinox shares had declined 8.9 percent before Minmetals’
offer since announcing a C$4.6 billion unsolicited bid for
 Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  Feb. 28, which must be withdrawn if
Minmetals prevails. Toronto-based Lundin rejected the offer
March 20, and Equinox today extended the offer to April 29.  Minmetals’ acquisition requires approval from Chinese and
Australian regulators. The company said it lodged an application
with Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board on March 11.  “The market is saying it expects it to get done and with
more money on the table,” First Asset’s Stephenson said. “If
you’re an Equinox shareholder, this is pretty darn good.”  Overall, there have been 6,313 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $646 billion, a 27 percent increase from the
$510 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at +61-2-9777-8642 or  ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 