-- 
Iron Ore May Gain on Restocking, Lorentzen & Stemoco Says

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-04-05T14:24:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/china-iron-ore-may-gain-on-restocking-lorentzen-stemoco-says.html
Chinese  iron-ore  prices may rise
further as buyers look to build up inventories of the steel-
making ingredient, shipbroker  Lorentzen & Stemoco  AS said.  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content shipped to
Tianjin port, southeast of Beijing, has gained 6.2 percent since
it last dropped on March 21, according to Steel Business
Briefing Commodities Research. China produced 47 percent of the
world’s crude steel in January, according to the World Steel
Association.  “Spot iron-ore prices are likely to build on last week’s”
gain, Thomas Zwick, an Oslo-based analyst with Lorentzen &
Stemoco, wrote in a note e-mailed today. “Chinese buyers
continue to replenish stocks.”  Chinese iron-ore inventories have fallen 1.3 percent since
Feb. 25 when they were at the highest for data from Antaike
Information Development Co., which goes back to June 2006. Iron
ore will account for 37 percent of all dry-bulk goods, including
iron ore, thermal coal, grain and minor bulk commodities, hauled
at sea this year,  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s biggest shipbroker,
forecast.  The price of iron ore will likely fall in the next few
years as the global production of steel is likely to lose the
“growth momentum” experienced in the last five years,  NMDC
Ltd. (NMDC) , Asia’s third-largest iron-ore producer, said today. NMDC
remains “cautious and conservative” in iron ore development,
Chairman Rana Som said in a conference in  Singapore .  Boost Supplies  India ’s top court authorized iron ore exports from
Karnataka state starting April 20, more than eight months after
the southern state banned overseas sales to boost supplies of
the raw material to local steelmakers.  The  Supreme Court  gave the provincial government 15 days to
implement new rules regarding transportation and storage of iron
ore in the state’s new mining law, according to an order by a
two-judge panel headed by R.V. Raveendran. The state had sought
three months to implement the laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  