-- 
Colombia Is Said to Reach Labor Deal With U.S. To Advance Trade Agreement

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-04-06T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/colombia-u-s-said-to-announce-labor-deal-as-soon-as-this-week.html
Colombia  and the U.S. may announce a
deal as soon as today on measures clearing the way for a stalled
free-trade agreement, according to six people familiar with the
talks.  Negotiators have spent more than a month in discussions as
U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said the Obama administration
wants Colombia to strengthen labor rules and offer better
protections for union organizers before the trade pact could be
sent to Congress.  The two nations have had “very productive” talks, and
many of the improvements sought by the U.S. are steps that
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  wants to make on his own,
Kirk said yesterday.  “We feel like we are pushing on an open door when it comes
to Colombia,” Kirk said at a hearing of a subcommittee of the
House Appropriations Committee. Kirk declined to say if an
announcement would be made today.  Santos is in the U.S. this week for a meeting of the  United
Nations Security Council  in  New York . An announcement might be
delayed until tomorrow to accommodate the schedules of Santos
and President Barack Obama, according to three of the people who
declined to be identified before the announcement.  Adriana Vargas, a spokeswoman traveling with Santos, said
the Colombian delegation may extend its U.S. stay by a day for a
“high-level meeting” in New York or  Washington . She didn’t
provide more details, and the Colombia Trade Ministry didn’t
return a phone call seeking comment.  Democratic U.S. lawmakers such as Representative Jim McGovern of  Massachusetts  and labor unions have said protections
for workers in Colombia fail to meet accepted standards.  $1.1 Billion  The agreement would boost U.S. shipments to Colombia by
$1.1 billion a year from $12 billion in 2010, according to the
U.S. Commerce Department. For Colombia the deal would lock in
unilateral trade privileges that are subject to renewal by
Congress, providing greater certainty to investors. Those
preferences lapsed in February, dealing a blow to Colombian
textile makers and flower growers.  The U.S. and Colombia, which exchanged about $27.7 billion
in trade last year, agreed to modifications of the labor and
environment provisions of an original agreement after demands
from Democratic lawmakers in 2007. Republican President  George
W. Bush  tried a year later to force the Democratic-controlled
Congress to vote for the deal. They used a procedural maneuver
to avoid a vote.  The administration has been pressed by Republicans to move
ahead with the Colombia agreement. Senate Republican leader
 Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said he would hold up confirmation
of a new Commerce secretary if a Colombia accord isn’t submitted
to Congress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  