-- 
Colombia, U.S. Having ‘Very Productive’ Talks on Trade Pact's Labor Rights

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-04-05T21:26:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/colombia-u-s-having-very-productive-talks-on-trade-pact-s-labor-rights.html
Colombia  and the U.S. are having
“very productive” talks on labor provisions the Obama
administration says it needs before a free-trade deal can be
ratified by Congress, U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said.  Kirk said improvements in labor rights and protections for
union organizers the U.S. seeks are similar to steps President
 Juan Manuel Santos  wants to make on his own for his nation.  “We feel like we are pushing on an open door when it comes
to Colombia,” Kirk said today at a hearing of a subcommittee of
the House Appropriations Committee.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration wants Colombia to
beef up worker rights and crack down on violence against labor
leaders, Carol Guthrie, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office, said in a  statement  March 18.  Santos is in the U.S. this week for a meeting of the  United
Nations Security Council . Kirk declined to say if an
announcement by the two nations would be made tomorrow.  Democratic lawmakers such as Representative Jim McGovern of
 Massachusetts  and labor unions have said protections for workers
in Colombia fail to meet accepted standards.  The agreement would boost U.S. shipments to Colombia by
$1.1 billion a year from $12 billion in 2010, according to the
U.S. Commerce Department. For Colombia, which receives about
$500 million a year in U.S. anti-narcotics aid, the deal would
lock in unilateral trade privileges that are subject to renewal
by Congress, providing greater certainty to investors.  U.S., Colombia Trade  The U.S. and Colombia, which exchanged about $27.7 billion
in trade last year, agreed to modifications of the labor and
environment provisions of the original agreement after demands
from Democratic lawmakers in 2007. Bush a year later tried to
force the Democratic Congress to vote for the deal. They used a
procedural maneuver to avoid a vote.  The administration has been pressed by Republicans to move
ahead with the Colombian agreement. Senate Republican leader
 Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said he would hold up confirmation
of a new Commerce secretary if a Colombia accord isn’t submitted
to Congress.  Kirk also said today that  Russia  probably will join the
 World Trade Organization  this year or next, so Congress will
need to repeal a Cold War-era law that limits trade with that
nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  