-- 
Commerzbank Said to Seek Up to $14 Billion to Repay State Aid

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-04-05T22:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/commerzbank-said-to-seek-up-to-14-billion-to-repay-german-government-aid.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-
largest bank, may raise as much as 10 billion euros ($14
billion) to help repay government aid, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  The Frankfurt-based bank may announce plans to sell new
shares and other securities as early as today, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the deliberations are
confidential. Commerzbank, which may raise between 5 billion
euros and 10 billion euros, is still completing the plans and
they may change, the people said.  Chief Financial Officer Eric Strutz said in February that
Commerzbank wants to redeem this year a “significant” portion
of the 16.2 billion euros it received in so-called silent
participations from the German government’s rescue fund, known
as Soffin, which also bought a 25 percent stake in the company
during the financial crisis.  While the German lender returned to profit last year as
trading income recovered and provisions to cover bad loans
dropped, speculation about a capital increase has weighed on the
stock. Commerzbank declined 13 percent in the past 12 months in
Frankfurt trading, valuing the lender at 7.5 billion euros. The
stock rose 3.1 percent to 5.60 euros yesterday.  Spokesman Reiner Rossmann declined to comment. The plans
were reported yesterday by the Financial Times.  Commerzbank may announce capital increase plans in its
invitation to the annual general meeting scheduled for May 18,
where it may seek shareholder approval for such a move, one of
the people said.  Strutz has also said the German lender may use excess
capital to help repay  government aid . The bank’s core Tier 1
capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, was 10 percent
at the end of December, up from 9.2 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story: 