-- 
Connecticut Wins Third Men's Basketball Title as Butler Shooting Goes Cold

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-05T05:21:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/connecticut-defeats-butler-in-ncaa-men-s-basketball-final-for-third-title.html
The University of  Connecticut 
claimed its third men’s college basketball championship as
Butler University had the worst title game shooting
performance in the 73-year history of the national
tournament.  Connecticut beat Butler 53-41 last night at Reliant
Stadium in Houston, outscoring the Bulldogs 34-19 during
the second half. Butler was held to 19 percent shooting,
hitting 12 of 64 shots. The Bulldogs made only three 2-
point baskets.  The previous worst shooting display in the title game
of the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament
was a 21.5 percent effort by Washington State in 1941.  “We knew that we could really defend them,”
Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said during the trophy
presentation ceremony. “The major adjustment was we were
going to out-will them and outwork them, and eventually we
outplayed them.”  Calhoun, 68, is the oldest coach to win a championship
and becomes the fifth coach to win the NCAA tournament
three or more times. He joins  John Wooden  (10), Adolph Rupp
(4),  Mike Krzyzewski  (4) and  Bob Knight  (3). Calhoun also
led UConn to national titles in 1999 and 2004.  Kemba Walker scored 16 points and freshman Jeremy Lamb
had all 12 of his points in the second half for
Connecticut, which finished with the lowest title game
point total for a champion since 1949, when  Kentucky  beat
Oklahoma State 46-36.  That was also the last championship game in which the
teams combined to score fewer than 100 points.  “Credit UConn for defending the way they do,” Butler
coach Brad Stevens said at a news conference. “They
challenged shots better than any team we played all year.”  Butler Falls Short  Butler was again denied a chance to become the first
national champion from outside college sports’ six major
conferences since the University of  Nevada ,  Las Vegas  in
1990.  The Bulldogs, from the Horizon League, are the first
team to lose consecutive title games since the  University
of Michigan ’s squads led by the “Fab Five” in 1992-93.
Butler lost to Duke 61-59 in last year’s title game.  “It’s very frustrating when you have your chances and
you let it slip away,” said Butler guard Shelvin Mack, who
had a team-leading 13 points on 4-of-15 shooting. “The
ball just wasn’t falling in.”  Huskies Run  Bulldogs senior forward Matt Howard missed 12 of 13
shots and finished with seven points in his final college
game.  Connecticut’s latest championship caps a stretch in
which the Huskies won 11 consecutive games in less than a
month.  UConn started its late-season run by winning five
games in five days to capture the Big East conference
tournament title last month. The Huskies then won six
straight games in the NCAA tournament to become the first
No. 3 regional seed to capture the title since  Florida  in
2006.  “We had a lot of doubters,” said Walker, who hit
five of 19 shots against Butler and added nine rebounds.
“The Big East tournament we came out strong and we got a
lot of confidence and kind of felt unstoppable. We were
right, we were unstoppable and now we’re national
champions.”  The lowest-scoring title game in 62 years closed out
one of the most unpredictable NCAA tournaments in history.  It was the first time the championship game didn’t
feature a No. 1 or No. 2 regional seed since the tournament
started ranking teams in 1979. The 18 combined losses for
UConn and Butler coming into last night were the most for
the title game participants.  Villanova Victory  Indianapolis-based Butler, which was a No. 8 seed, was
seeking to match the 1985 Villanova Wildcats as the lowest-
ranked team to win the national championship.  Both teams struggled from the opening tip, combining
to hit three of their first 20 shots.  Butler had a 22-19 halftime lead and pushed its
advantage to six points less than a minute into the second
half.  Connecticut then went on a 22-3 scoring run to take
control, as the Bulldogs had stretches of 7 minutes, 8
seconds and 6:19 during which they failed to make a basket.  Calhoun, holding the trophy amid falling confetti,
said the championship may be the “happiest moment of my
life.”  NCAA Recruiting Violations  Connecticut finished in ninth place in the Big East
and the program was investigated this season for NCAA
recruiting violations involving Nate Miles, who was
expelled from the school before playing a game for the
Huskies.  Calhoun, inducted into the  Basketball Hall of Fame  in
2005, received a three-game suspension from the NCAA, a ban
he’ll serve at the start of next season.  “The joy the kids gave me, the inability to ever give
in, that’s what I got into 40-some years ago when I became
a high school coach,” Calhoun said. “I couldn’t ask for a
better gift. It reaffirms everything I’ve done in my
profession. This is as sweet a ride as I’ve ever been on in
my life.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  