-- 
Connecticut’s NCAA Championship Ratings Lower Than Last Year’s Title Game

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-05T22:15:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/connecticut-s-ncaa-championship-ratings-lower-than-last-year-s-title-game.html
Ratings for the  University of
Connecticut ’s third men’s college basketball championship
dropped 18 percent from last year’s title game in preliminary
national figures.  The Huskies’ 53-41 win last night against  Butler
University , the lowest-scoring title game since 1949, drew 11.7
percent of households, according to Nielsen Media Research fast-
national figures cited in a news release from CBS Corp. and
Turner Sports.  “I’m not surprised that it didn’t beat last year’s title
game, but this is still a great number,” David Levy, president
of Turner Sports, said in a telephone interview. “It is showing
that this event has the capability of growing with teams that
aren’t your typical brand names.”  Butler’s loss to  Duke University  in last year’s  National
Collegiate Athletic Association  championship game drew a fast-
national rating of 14.2 percent. Duke won that game 61-59 when a
half-court shot by Butler bounced off the rim at the final
buzzer.  UConn’s victory at Reliant Stadium in Houston drew
preliminary national ratings that topped those for championship
games in 2009 and 2006.  National Average  The three-week tournament had the best preliminary national
average since 2005, a 6.4, according to the release. The
tournament averaged 10.2 million viewers, up 7 percent from  CBS
Sports ’ 2010 coverage.  The NCAA March Madness on Demand website, which offered
live streaming games, saw a 63 percent increase in total visits
and a 17 percent increase in video consumption this season,
according to an e-mailed release.  Turner Sports  and CBS agreed last April to a 14-year, $10.8
billion partnership for broadcast, Internet and wireless rights
to the college basketball tournament. All 67 games of this
year’s tournament were broadcast live across four networks --
CBS, and Turner’s TBS, TNT and truTV.  “We exceeded all of our initial business expectations,
from ad sales to corporate partnerships, digital sales and
ratings,” Levy said. “That’s a great foundation for a 14-year
deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 