-- 
ContourGlobal to Start Power Output at Rwanda's ‘Exploding Lake’ Next Year

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 
2011-04-05T06:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/contourglobal-to-start-power-output-at-rwandan-exploding-lake-next-year.html
ContourGlobal LLC, a closely held
U.S. energy-project developer that operates on four continents,
said it will start producing power from methane gas extracted at
Lake Kivu in  Rwanda  after securing funding for the plant.  KivuWatt Ltd., the New York-based company’s Rwandan
subsidiary, will generate 25 megawatts of electricity when the
facility is commissioned in July 2012, Country Manager Jarmo
Gummerus said in a phone interview on April 1.  The $400 million project will help alleviate a power
shortage in the East African nation and is expected to produce
100 megawatts, more than the current national capacity, by 2015.
It may also save lives by reducing the chance of an eruption,
known as a lake overturn, similar to one that occurred at
Cameroon’s Lake Nyos in 1986, killing 1,700 people.  “By extracting the gases out of the lake we will prevent
the overturn of the lake,” Gummerus said.  One of three known “exploding lakes” in  Africa , the gases
in Lake Kivu combined with nearby volcanic activity may cause an
eruption within the next 200 years that could kill hundreds of
thousands of people, according to ContourGlobal’s  website .  Lake Kivu, with a surface area of about 1,000 square miles,
is on Rwanda’s border with the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Trapped at the bottom is more than 2 trillion cubic feet of
methane, potentially enough to generate 500 megawatts of energy
for the next 40 years, Gummerus said. About 100 megawatts may be
accessed indefinitely, as the lake naturally generates the gas.  Funding Delayed  Funding for the power-plant project had been delayed while
international lenders awaited a  World Bank  safety,
sustainability and environmental study and approval of political
risk insurance, Gummerus said.  After nine months of research, the  Multilateral Investment
Guarantee Agency , a World Bank division known as Miga, approved
the insurance on March 31, Gummerus said. International lenders
are expected to complete investment plans in the coming weeks,
he said.  “The project is fully funded,” Gummerus said. KivuWatt will
order specialized equipment from manufacturers around the world
in the coming weeks to build the plant, he said.  The company hasn’t yet identified which lenders will help
finance the project, with the exception of a $25 million loan
from the  African Development Bank  announced in February and the
Miga guarantee, Infrastructure Minister Vincent Karega said in a
phone interview on April 3 from Kigali, the capital.  Methane extraction is part of a government initiative to
generate 1,000 megawatts of electricity by 2017 from alternative
energy sources. The plan includes the development of hydropower,
geothermal energy and peat power. Rwanda currently has installed
capacity of 95 megawatts, providing about 14 percent of the
population with access to electricity, according to the Energy
Ministry.  Business Constraints  The lack of electricity is one of the key constraints to
business development in Rwanda, according to the  World Bank .  Violet Mukakalisa, a 24-year-old worker at a grocery store
in Rubavu on the shore of Lake Kivu, said outages occur
regularly in the week, often for hours at a time. With a
reliable connection available, factories may move into town,
creating jobs and lowering food costs for consumers. Too many
industries may burden the remote tourist destination, straining
the land and the electrical connections, she said.  “If there are too many industries, maybe the residents will
not get enough electricity,” she said in an interview in her
shop on March 27.  Claude Havugimana, a supervisor at a micro-finance company,
said the project may help resuscitate the economy of the
district of about 300,000 residents, which has a 40 percent
unemployment rate. Rwanda is one of the world’s poorest
countries, with 77 percent of its people living on less than
$1.25 a day, according to the  United Nations .  “The change will come fast,” Havugimana said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Murdock in Kigali via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 