-- 
Convertibles Get Costly on Demand, Says Lombard Odier’s Barazal

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-04-05T09:23:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/convertibles-get-costly-on-demand-says-lombard-odier-s-barazal.html
Convertible bonds are getting
expensive as issuers turn to other markets for funding and
managers bid up the available bonds, according to Nathalia Barazal, a  fund manager  at Lombard Odier Darier Hentsch.  Barazal, who manages about $6 billion of equity-linked
assets, said that “the world is becoming more dangerous,”
making convertible securities more attractive and offering “a
mixture of uncertainties and opportunities.” She spoke in an
interview in London.  On the levels the market has reached:  “The market is very rich. A few months back I was happier
than today. We need a lot of new issues to compensate, to bring
back more diversity, new ideas. What’s happening is there are
not enough new issues and the asset class is very appealing --
money is coming into this asset class and more money means more
people chasing the same kind of stuff.  “If we have a rising interest rate environment, or even
just the perspective of rising interest rates, then I think yes,
we’ll have more issuance. If not, why would a company bother?”  On the outlook:  “Globally speaking we’re a bit cautious on equity...there
are opportunities in the market, there are good valuations,
there are companies that are running with a huge amount of cash,
low capital spending plans, no hiring schemes -- they’re
actually making all the productivity gains.  “Then we’ve got all these uncertainties, the quake in
 Japan , the Middle East situation, so a lot of fears and
opportunities at the same time.”  On contingent convertible bonds:  “A CoCo is a debt and if things turn bad you get a stock.
What I’m buying is a debt that if things turn bad is a debt, and
if things go well is a stock. It’s kind of the opposite of what
I’m buying.  “I’m not saying an absolute no because if you do believe
that this bank is not going to default, is not going to have
haircuts, why not get paid for it? It’s a super-high coupon but
it’s a new cycle we are entering.  “If we start talking about haircuts, not saving the worst
banks, this is going to be quite challenging for this kind of
CoCo because then you have to reprice all the financial debts,
you’ve got to reprice the potential of haircuts. So I don’t like
it that much. It’s quite a challenging environment for earnings
for that kind of sector, especially with the new rules.”  On positioning:  “We might invest in oil drilling companies. Oil and
commodities are on a global uptrend, whether you’re thinking
global growth or the Middle East situation. We also like tech
companies. That’s where we have more equity sensitivity. We
don’t like real estate in the U.S. We’re very selectively into
financials.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  