-- 
Wheat May Climb on Concern Adverse Weather Will Curb Production in U.S.

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-05T12:42:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/corn-near-33-month-peak-as-world-supply-shrinks-as-wheat-at-four-week-high.html
Wheat may rise for a second day in
 Chicago  on concern dry weather in the U.S. southern Plains and
wet weather in northern growing states will curb production in
the world’s biggest exporter of the grain.  The U.S. winter-wheat crop had the lowest government rating
in nine years as dry weather persisted in the southern and
central Plains, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said in a
report yesterday. Further north, where spring wheat is sown,
melting snow may cause “major flooding,” it said.  “The strength, of course, is in the grain markets, where
dry weather has put a strong bid under the wheat market as that
crop heads into its peak growing season,” economist  Dennis Gartman  said in his daily Gartman Letter report. “The USDA made
its first weekly report of the year concerning the winter wheat
crop, and the report was shockingly bad.”  Wheat for May delivery advanced 0.75 cent, or 0.1 percent,
to $7.9075 a bushel at 1:14 p.m. London time on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The grain touched $7.9825, the highest level for
the most-active contract since March 8. It pared a gain of as
much as 1 percent after China’s central bank raised key  interest
rates  by 0.25 percentage point.  Milling wheat for May delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris added 6 euros, or 2.4 percent, to 252 euros ($357.36) a
metric ton.  Lowest Since 2002  About 37 percent of the U.S. winter-wheat crop was rated
good or excellent as of April 3, down from 65 percent a year
earlier, the USDA said in its first reading this year measuring
conditions. The reading was the lowest for the date since 2002,
when 31 percent got the top ratings.  Parts of Texas, Oklahoma,  Kansas  and  Colorado  had less than
25 percent of normal rainfall in the past 30 days, according to
the  National Weather Service . As of April 3, about 12 percent of
the  Texas  crop was in good condition, with no excellent rating.
In Kansas, the biggest winter-wheat growing state, 31 percent of
the crop was rated good to excellent.  The southern Plains, where hard winter wheat is grown, have
“little chance” of rain in the next week, according to a World
Weather Inc. report. In parts of Texas, weekend temperatures
topped 100 degrees Fahrenheit as strong winds compounded  dry
conditions , the forecaster said.  “It’s painting a poorer picture that will raise increasing
fears that hot and dry weather may hurt production in the
Plains,” Ker Chung Yang, a commodity analyst at Phillip Futures
Pte, said by phone from  Singapore . “For the wheat market, we
have these bullish factors.”  Corn, Soybeans  Corn fell for the first time in four sessions and soybeans
declined as a stronger dollar made U.S. supplies less attractive
to overseas buyers. The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge
of the greenback’s strength, increased as much as 0.3 percent.  “After  China  announced the rate increase, the dollar has
rallied a bit this morning, and that may cause some of the bulls
to reconsider their positions,” said  William Adams , a  fund
manager  at Resilience AG in Zurich. “It appears to be a bit of
light profit-taking or short-covering before the open in the
States.”  Corn for May delivery fell 4.5 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$7.5575 a bushel in Chicago. The grain yesterday reached $7.65,
the highest level since July 2008. The most-active contract more
than doubled in the past year.  Soybeans for May delivery dropped 9.5 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $13.745 a bushel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  