-- 
Crude Oil Declines From 30-Month High on Demand Signals From U.S., China

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-04-05T20:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/crude-oil-declines-from-a-30-month-high-after-china-raises-interest-rates.html
Oil slipped from the highest level
in more than 30 months in  New York  on signs demand may drop in
the U.S. and China, the largest crude-consuming countries.  Futures slid 13 cents after the Institute for Supply
Management reported a smaller-than-forecast increase in its U.S.
index of non-manufacturing businesses and China’s central bank
raised  interest rates . U.S. oil supplies probably climbed last
week, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts before an
Energy Department report tomorrow.  “This is a real myriad of factors from the global economic
to domestic inventories to foreign exchange,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics, an energy advisory
firm in Austin, Texas. “Everything is pushing on crude today,
but despite all of these downward pressures, the price is still
showing some resistance.”  Oil for May delivery settled at $108.34 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . It touched $108.78 a barrel yesterday,
the highest intraday price since Sept. 24, 2008. Futures have
risen 25 percent in the past year.  Prices maintained declines after the settlement when the
American Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. oil
stockpiles decreased 2.8 million barrels to 354.3 million, the
first drop in five weeks. May oil fell 52 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to $107.95 a barrel in electronic trading at 4:33 p.m.  Trying to Consolidate  “The market is trying to consolidate right now below the
new 2 1/2-year high,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . Oil faces
technical resistance at about $110 a barrel and has support at
about $105 a barrel, he said.  Prices often don’t extend gains when traders’ sell orders
are clustered at specific levels, creating so-called price
resistance. Similarly, clusters of buy orders create support.  The ISM’s index for service industries in the U.S., the
biggest part of the economy, dropped to 57.3 last month from
59.7 in February. A measure of 50 signals growth, and economists
had projected a March reading of 59.5, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  China  raised interest rates by 25 basis points to restrain
inflation in the world’s fastest-growing major economy. The gain
in one-year lending and deposit rates was the fourth since the
end of the global financial crisis.  Brake on Growth  The increase “might put a brake on growth in oil demand in
China,” Paul Harris, head of natural resources risk management
at Bank of Ireland in Dublin, said by phone.  Chinese oil demand grew 15 percent in January from the year
before, the  International Energy Agency  reported last month.  Oil also fell before a report tomorrow that may show
supplies increased by 2 million barrels last week to the highest
level since November as imports climbed and high prices
depressed fuel demand, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Inventories gained 0.6 percent in the seven days ended
April 1 from 355.7 million a week earlier, according to the
median of 15 analyst estimates before an Energy Department
report tomorrow.  Brent for May settlement rose $1.16, or 1 percent, to
$122.22 a barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange, the
highest level since Aug. 1, 2008.  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $13.88 a
barrel to U.S. West  Texas  Intermediate futures. The difference
between contracts in London and New York was $12.59 yesterday
and $10.37 a week ago.  The spread between the contracts reached a record $19.54 on
Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the Middle East and North Africa and
supplies climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
the New York contract.  Cushing inventories were at a record 41.9 million barrels
in the week ended March 25, according to the Energy Department.  Libya Premium  Oil may plunge by $20 a barrel if tensions ease in Libya
and Middle Eastern countries,  Stephen Schork , president of the
Schork Group Inc., a consulting firm in Villanova,  Pennsylvania ,
said today on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track.” Schork
correctly predicted on July 24, 2008, that  oil prices  would fall
below $100 a barrel in the third quarter of that year.  The conflict in  Libya  is the bloodiest in a wave of
uprisings that has toppled the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt and
spread to Algeria, Bahrain, Oman, Syria and Yemen. Oil prices
have climbed 18 percent since the ouster of Tunisian President
Zine Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14.  New York futures also declined after Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said late yesterday that policy makers
must watch inflation “very closely” for evidence that rising
commodity costs are having more than a temporary impact on
consumer prices.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 470,450
contracts as of 4:37 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 451,313
contracts yesterday, 45 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.56 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 