-- 
Oil Falls From 30-Month High on Qaddafi Ouster, Supply Gains

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-04-05T03:33:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/crude-oil-falls-as-much-as-39-cents-or-0-4-to-108-08-in-new-york-trade.html
Oil dropped from the highest since
September 2008 in  New York  after a report that the sons of
Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi are seeking his ouster and as
analysts forecast an increase in U.S. crude inventories.  Futures declined for the first time in four days after the
New York Times said at least two of Qaddafi’s sons propose
pushing their father aside to transition to a constitutional
democracy. An Energy Department report tomorrow may show crude
and distillate fuel inventories increased last week, according
to a Bloomberg News survey.  “If there was some event that signaled an orderly
resolution in the Middle East, then that premium is expected to
be unwound,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist
at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne. “There is still
inflated distillate supply and we judge it being around 30
percent above long-run average levels.”  Crude for May delivery fell as much as 40 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $108.07 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , and was at $108.13 at 11:30 a.m.
Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract advanced 53 cents to
$108.47, the highest settlement since Sept. 22, 2008. Prices are
up 25 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for May settlement traded at $120.93 a barrel,
down 13 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
Yesterday, the contract climbed $2.36, or 2 percent, to settle
at $121.06.  Brent Premium  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $12.80 a
barrel to U.S. futures. The difference between front-month
contracts in  London  and New York surged to a record $19.54 on
Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the Middle East and North Africa and
stockpiles climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
New York futures. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  Oil also fell as the National Organization of Oil Employees
in  Gabon  ended a strike yesterday. Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
Total SA halted oil production at fields in Gabon while Tullow
Oil Plc’s said output was “severely disrupted” after the
strike began on March 31.  “We are not too concerned - Gabon’s production has been in
decline since 1997 and the strike has now ended,”  Stephen
Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc., a consultant in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania  said in an e-mailed note. “But as with
the Middle East, fears of contagion are rampant.”  Libyan Fighting  Oil gained yesterday as Libyan rebels continued to fight
loyalists, while Yemeni police clashed with anti-government
protesters in the southwestern city of Taiz, leaving at least 15
demonstrators dead and hundreds injured.  Libya was  Africa ’s third-largest crude producer before the
conflict began. Output there slumped to a “trickle” by March
11, according to the International Energy Agency. Italy rejected
a reported cease-fire proposal by Qaddafi and said it would
recognize the opposition as the legitimate government, following
a similar move by  France .  The strife in Libya and Yemen is the latest in a wave of
uprisings that has toppled the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt and
spread to Algeria, Bahrain, Oman and Syria. Oil prices have
climbed 18 percent since the ouster of Tunisian President Zine
El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14.  Shell and Total SA halted oil production at fields in Gabon
and Tullow Oil Plc’s output is “severely disrupted” because of
a workers’ strike.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane, Ching Shen Lee at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  