-- 
Czech Ministry Wants Pension Overhaul Bills Ready by Mid-2011

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-04-05T13:32:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/czech-ministry-wants-pension-overhaul-bills-ready-by-mid-2011.html
The Czech Social Affairs Ministry
wants draft legislation needed to overhaul the deficit-making
pension system prepared by the middle of this year.  The draft laws will be prepared in cooperation with the
 Finance Ministry , the Prague-based Social Affairs Ministry said
in an e-mail today. Prime Minister Petr Necas called the pension
system revamp, aimed at strengthening private savings for
retirement from 2013, the key task for his government.  The Cabinet will debate tomorrow a document summarizing the
main principles of the pension overhaul agreed by the three
ruling-coalition parties. The document “should be the basis for
preparation of a detailed solution” for introducing the new
program boosting private retirement savings, the statement said.  The Czechs are the last of the four largest post-communist
economies in the  European Union  to boost private savings for
retirement as the government expects an ageing population to
reduce the number of workers paying for pensions of the retired.
The Cabinet wants to avoid the difficulties suffered by Hungary
and  Poland , where pension changes widened budget gaps, forcing a
reversal of their overhauls.  The three Czech ruling parties agreed in February to allow
people to voluntarily divert part of their pension payments to
private accounts from the state-run pay-as-you-go plan. Necas,
whose administration took power in July, said the government
will use extra proceeds from raising the value-added tax on some
goods to compensate for the resulting loss of budget revenue.  The Czech Republic’s debt rating of A may be raised if the
government follows through on pledges to reduce spending,
including an overhaul of the pension system,  Standard & Poor’s 
has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  