-- 
Dell Will Open Engineering, Research Center in Silicon Valley

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-04-05T20:34:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/dell-will-open-engineering-research-center-in-silicon-valley.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , the third-largest maker
of personal computers, plans to consolidate four Northern
California offices into a new research and development center
that will employ as many as 1,500 people within five years.  Operations of four companies bought by Dell since 2007 will
move into the 240,000-square-foot office in  Santa Clara , Dell
said today in a statement. They are Zing Systems Inc., currently
in Sunnyvale; Ocarina Networks in  San Jose ; Scalent Systems Inc.
in Palo Alto; and Everdream Corp. in Fremont.  Dell is seeking ways to expand its data-center business,
where it aims to double revenue to $30 billion within three
years. The company plans to make more acquisitions and increase
spending on research and development to boost sales from areas
such as data storage and services for specialized industries,
Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden has said.  About 700 people will work in the new facility by the end
of this year, and several hundred people will be hired for new
engineering, sales, marketing and services positions, Dell said.  Opening the Silicon Valley office will let the company
recruit more engineers from the area to support its growth in
data-center computing,  David Frink , a spokesman for Round Rock,
Texas-based Dell, said in an interview.  “It’s both a consolidation and a commitment to attracting
new talent,” Frink said.  Dell spent 1.1 percent of sales on research and development
during its most recent fiscal year, which ended in January,
compared with an average of 6.7 percent for comparable
technology companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hewlett-Packard Co. was the top PC maker worldwide in the
fourth quarter, followed by Acer Inc. and Dell, according to
research firm Gartner Inc. in Stamford,  Connecticut .  Dell rose 18 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $14.43 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained
6.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  