-- 
Democratic Party Chairman Tim Kaine Plans to Run for Virginia Senate Seat

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-04-05T22:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/democratic-party-chairman-tim-kaine-plans-to-run-for-virginia-senate-seat.html
Democratic National Committee 
Chairman  Tim Kaine  said he will run for the  U.S. Senate  in
Virginia in next year’s election, bolstering his party’s chances
of keeping the open seat by having a proven fundraiser and
former governor of the state in the race.  Kaine, 53, made the announcement on a video posted on a
website established for his candidacy. Sitting on the porch
steps of his home in Richmond, Kaine said he is entering the
race “because America has big challenges and I’m convinced that
Virginia has answers to strengthen our nation.”  He touted his record as the state’s governor, such as
recruiting efforts that helped companies including Ikea
Group and Roll Royce Group Plc establish facilities in the
state.  The seat opened up when Senator James Webb, a Democrat who
won the seat in one of 2006’s most competitive races, said in
February he won’t seek re-election. Former Republican Senator
George Allen, whom Webb defeated, is already in the race, along
with Republican Jamie Radtke, the Richmond Tea Party chairwoman.  Democrats control the 100-member Senate with 53 votes, and
their risk of losing the chamber to Republicans in 2012 has
risen with a series of retirements from incumbents in their
party. While Kaine had previously said he didn’t want to run,
other  Virginia  Democrats, including Democratic Senator Mark Warner, urged him to get into the race.  Obama’s Pick  President  Barack Obama , who also wanted Kaine to seek the
Senate seat, picked U.S. Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz
of  Florida  as his choice to take over as head of the DNC. Vice
President Joe Biden informed DNC members of Obama’s selection in
an e-mail today after Kaine’s announcement. The DNC members must
confirm the choice.  Kaine was elected Virginia governor in 2005 with 52 percent
of the vote and was mayor of Richmond from 1998 to 2001. A close
ally of Obama’s, he was a co-chairman of the president’s 2008
campaign and was considered a possible vice-presidential pick.
He was elected Democratic Party chairman in January 2009.  Under Kaine’s leadership, the  Democratic National Committee 
raised $225 million in 2009 and 2010 compared with $196 million
for the  Republican National Committee , according to the  Center
for Responsive Politics , which tracks donations. In the previous
midterm election cycle, 2005-06, the Republicans raised $243
million and the Democrats trailed with $131 million.  Democratic Retirements  On March 2, Senator Daniel Akaka of  Hawaii  became the fifth
Democratic caucus member to announce he won’t run for re-
election in 2012. Along with Webb, Democratic Senators
Jeff Bingaman of  New Mexico  and Kent Conrad of North Dakota said
they will retire, as has independent  Joe Lieberman  of
 Connecticut , who caucuses with the Democrats.  Republican Senators John Ensign of  Nevada ,  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of  Texas  and Jon Kyl of  Arizona  have also said they
won’t seek re-election in 2012.  While Obama carried Virginia in 2008 -- the first Democrat
to do so in 44 years -- Republicans won three Democratic-held
House seats in last fall’s elections, and Republican Robert McDonnell won the governorship in 2009.  Kaine’s decision sets up a likely battle with Allen, also a
former Virginia governor, said  Jennifer Duffy , Senate editor at
the nonpartisan  Cook Political Report  in Washington.  Marquee Race  “Obviously this sets up one of the marquee races of the
cycle,” Duffy said. “It’s a test not only of the Senate race,
but also how much Virginia’s politics have really changed.”  Allen today disputed Kaine’s accomplishments as governor,
saying in a statement the Democrat’s term “was marked by his
proposals calling for staggering tax increases and by
substantial job losses.”  “After being convinced by his liberal allies in  Washington 
to run,” Kaine’s announcement “sets up a clear contrast for
the families of Virginia,” Allen said.  Kaine adviser Mo Elleithee responded with a statement
saying “it’s unfortunate that George Allen has resorted to name
calling so early in this campaign. Virginians deserve a senator
who will focus on our nation’s economic challenges and will
bring more civility to Washington.”  Allen, 59, was favored to win re-election in 2006 until a
campaign gaffe less than three months before the vote. In a
speech to voters, he referred to a Webb campaign aide as
“macaca.” The remark is considered a racial slur in some
countries, referring to a macaque, a kind of monkey.  Allen later said he made up the word and apologized for
using it to refer to the Indian-American man who was videotaping
him. Still, that campaign mistake combined with a wave of
support for Democratic candidates that year helped Webb defeat
Allen, 50 percent to 49 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  