-- 
Denver Schools’ Sale to Help Escape JPMorgan Swap: Muni Credit

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 
2011-04-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/denver-schools-sale-to-help-escape-jpmorgan-swap-muni-credit.html
The Denver public school system is
borrowing $800 million to restructure pension debt and help
escape part of a money-losing interest-rate swap with  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)   Denver City & County School District No. 1,  Colorado ’s
 second-largest  by enrollment, is issuing taxable securities with
about $400 million in fixed-rate bonds today and about $400
million of variable-rate next week, to replace $750 million
variable-rate debt and terminate a swap agreed with JPMorgan in
April 2008.  The district is being forced to restructure the debt in the
form of certificates of participation, because it is losing its
standby purchase agreement with Dexia Credit Local, a unit of
 Dexia SA (DEXB) , April 23.  “This is the best deal the board could unanimously agree
on,” said Jeannie Kaplan, a member of the district’s governing
committee, in a telephone interview. “It was important for us
to go forward with a united voice.”  The sale marks the end of months of debate among school
board members and administrators about how to restructure $750
million of variable-rate debt sold in 2008 with interest-rate
swap agreements. After district officials pushed for mostly
variable-rate borrowing and some board members wanted it all
fixed, the seven-member board chose a mix of half variable and
half fixed, said Kaplan, 65.  Triple Food Bill  The restructuring will cost about $50 million to end the
swap and pay the cost of new debt and other expenses, according
to bond documents. The exact cost to terminate the JPMorgan
contract isn’t spelled out in the preliminary official
statement. The district would have owed $85.4 million if the
swap had been unwound on June 30, 2010, the documents say.  The school system’s $750 million sale in 2008 also
refinanced debt sold for pensions and provided $12.1 million for
termination payments in connection with a swap from 2005, which
also was with JPMorgan, according to offering documents. The
estimated $62 million spent to end such agreements in the last
three years is almost three times annual spending for food,
according to  the 2010-2011 recommended budget .  The schools system used variable-rate debt and interest-
rate swaps to borrow $750 million at a lower cost than if it had
sold fixed-rate bonds. In most municipal market swaps, borrowers
sell variable-rate debt to investors. Then the issuer and the
banks agree on a swap in which a fixed-interest rate is paid to
the banks, who in turn pay a floating rate to the borrower.  Denver’s Swap  In Denver’s case, the contract called for the school
district to pay a fixed rate of 4.86 percent and receive a
floating rate equal to the wholesale cost of one-month deposits
in  London , known as the London interbank offered rate. The
district expected that its borrowing cost would be 6 percent,
 according  to its website.  One-month Libor rates fell to 24 basis points yesterday,
just 1.2 basis points higher than the record-low on March 1,
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg dating to 1984. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  JPMorgan, one of the underwriters on the new issue, will no
longer have a swap agreement on the variable-rate debt after the
new debt is sold, said David Suppes, the district’s chief
operating officer, in a telephone interview. After the bond
sale,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  will have swaps on the variable-rate debt.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment on the bond sale.  “It’s frustrating that we have to go through this
restructuring,” said Suppes. “But we believe the restructuring
will leave us in a positive position.”  Standby Purchase Agreement  For the new variable-rate debt, the district will replace
the Dexia standby purchase agreement, which obliges an
underwriter to buy any unsold portion of an issue, with letters
of credit provided by JPMorgan, Wells Fargo and Royal Bank of
 Canada , according to bond documents. The credit facilities are
arranged for variable-rate debt issues to buy back bonds
investors don’t want to own when new  interest rates  are set.  Average yields on 10-year AA rated certificates of
participation rose to 4.08 percent yesterday, down 33 basis
points from Feb. 10, an almost three-year high for the
securities, according to Bloomberg Fair Market Value data.  Certificates of Participation  The structure of certificates of participation, a type of
debt that gives investors the right to revenue from a lease,
keeps some conservative buyers from investing, said Bud Byrnes,
chief executive officer of RH Investment Corp., an Encino,
California-based broker-dealer, in a telephone interview. Some
asset managers won’t buy them, Byrnes said, because they fear
that the issuer would walk away from the lease.  “Certificates usually pay about a 10-to-15 basis point
penalty in the marketplace,” he said.  Dexia, based in Brussels, was among the biggest recipients
of U.S. Federal Reserve aid through its New York unit from the
Fed’s “discount window” lending program, according to Fed
documents released last week in response to a Freedom of
Information Act request.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  PHILADELPHIA, whose unemployment rate was 10.3 percent in
January, plans to sell $272 million in tax-exempt general
obligations tomorrow to refinance debt. The bonds are rated A2
by Moody’s, sixth-highest, and one level lower at A- by  Fitch
Ratings , and BBB from  Standard & Poor’s , second-lowest
investment grade. Banks led by JPMorgan will underwrite the
securities. (Updated April 5)  NEW YORK CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY, which helps
fund capital projects in the most-populous U.S. city, plans to
sell $500 million in tax exempts tomorrow to refinance debt. The
bonds, backed by personal-income taxes, are top rated from S&P
and Fitch, and graded second-highest by Moody’s. Banks led by
Wells Fargo will underwrite the offering. (Updated April 5)  HOWARD UNIVERSITY plans to sell $289 million in bonds
through the  District of Columbia , including $65 in taxables, as
soon as tomorrow to refinance existing debt and fund building
renovations. The revenue-banked securities are rated A3 from
Moody’s and A- from S&P, both fourth-lowest of 10 investment
grades. Underwriters led by Bank of America Merrill Lynch will
market the offering. (Updated April 5)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .
Brendan A. McGrail in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  