-- 
Diamond Foods Rises After Agreeing to Buy P&G Pringles Brand

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-04-05T20:10:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/diamond-foods-to-buy-p-g-pringles-business-for-1-5-billion-1-.html
Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND)  rose the most in
four months after agreeing to buy  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s
Pringles chip operations for $1.5 billion, more than tripling
the size of its snack business.  The shares of the San Francisco-based snack maker rose 6.7
percent to $61.06 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading, the most since December. They have risen 44 percent
over the past twelve months, compared with a 12 percent gain for
the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  The Pringles brand, sold in more than 140 countries, will
help Diamond increase its global scale and more than double its
snack sales in the U.S. and the U.K. Getting rid of Pringles
also allows P&G Chief Executive Officer Robert McDonald to
devote more effort to the home and personal care businesses.  “This is a very good deal for shareholders, and the gain
in share price recognizes that,”  Tim Ramey , an analyst at D.A.
Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon , said in an interview.
“Pringles was an orphan brand within P&G, and it improves
Diamond’s product mix dramatically, making it solidly a snack
food company versus a commodity nut company.” He recommends
buying Diamond shares.  Diamond will assume $850 million in Pringles debt, bringing
the total value of the transaction to $2.35 billion, the
companies said today. Diamond expects the purchase to close by
the end of the year.  Profit Forecasts  If the deal closes by then, profit for the year ending July
2012 should be $3 to $3.10 a share, excluding items such as
transaction costs. That compares with the $2.99 average of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, and would be at least a 21
percent gain from the midpoint of the company’s 2011 earnings
projection. Diamond plans to more than double the percentage of
its sales from outside the U.S.  “Pringles will fit like a glove and take Diamond into a
whole new and bigger league,”  James Amoroso , an independent
food industry consultant based in Walchwil, Switzerland, said in
an e-mail. “Regardless of how successful P&G was with this
business, it was always going to be a strange fit. Snacks has
very different commercial dynamics.”  P&G fell 59 cents to $61.67 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The two companies had discussed a transaction as far back
as last year, people with direct knowledge of the discussions
said then. P&G’s board decided against a deal in August over
concerns about its structure. Today’s transaction will take the
form of a “Reverse Morris Trust,” which allows P&G to sell in
a more tax-efficient manner.  Mendes Takes Charge  Diamond CEO Michael J. Mendes will lead the combined
company, which will have sales of about $2.4 billion. He has run
the company since 1997. Pringles will make Diamond into the
world’s second-biggest maker of savory snacks, trailing PepsiCo
Inc.’s Frito-Lay unit. The company plans to increase Pringles’
sales in  developing countries  such as Brazil and  China .  Pringles debuted in October 1968, according to a P&G
website. The name  came  from a street in Finneytown, Ohio,
because the word appealed to the company. Pringles expanded
nationwide in 1975 and reached the U.K. in 1991. Outside the
U.S., its flavors include seaweed and crab, sold in  Asia , and
prawn cocktail, sold in  Europe .  “Pringles may not be the favorite brand of U.S. snackers,
but it is a major brand elsewhere,” said Marcia Mogelonsky, an
analyst at Mintel International in  Chicago . “Diamond now has a
clear pathway to emerging markets, analogous to Kraft’s purchase
of Cadbury.” According to Mintel, more than two-thirds of
Pringles’ new products debuted in Europe and Asia over the past
two years.  Diamond’s other snacks include Pop Secret microwave
popcorn, acquired from  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  for $190 million in
2008, and Kettle chips, purchased for $615 million last year.
Diamond began as a walnut growers’ cooperative in  California ,
and held an initial public offering in 2005.  Bank of America Corp. has committed to finance the deal,
according to a regulatory filing today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  