-- 
Dog, Man Live on Mountain, Search for Fire, Play Frisbee Golf

-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 
2011-04-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/dog-man-live-on-mountain-search-for-fire-play-frisbee-golf-book-review.html
For the better part of a decade,
 Philip Connors  has spent April through August watching for smoke
plumes from a mountaintop in the Gila National Forest of  New
Mexico .  “ Fire Season : Field Notes From a Wilderness Lookout”
recounts his days in the watchtower and leaves me wondering why
I’m wasting my time at a desk, when I could be taking this in:  “The hammered mesa tops glow pale blond in the low-angled
light, and glades of aspen can be seen greening up here and
there in a kind of mosaic where the old McKnight Fire burned,
each dense cluster at a slightly different pace -- one
vegetation type, a dozen different shades of green.”  After almost a century of fastidious efforts to put out
every blaze they found,  U.S. foresters  have learned to harness
and direct fire’s creative destruction. Connors, who spent
several years as an editor at the Wall Street Journal, helps
locate fires before they burn out of control. Some will be
extinguished, some left to spread, rejuvenating the forest for
plant and animal alike.  The work is simple. Clock in at 9. Climb from the cabin to
the lookout post. Scan the horizon for smoke every hour or so.
If you see a plume, triangulate it with another firewatcher.
Call it in. You may also be asked to track ongoing blazes. Clock
out at 6.  Hiking, Frisbee, Naps  The rest of the time, Connors hikes and fishes with his
dog, plays Frisbee golf, reads, naps and writes. He packs
chocolate and bourbon. His wife visits. This isolation -- 5
miles from the nearest road -- is the opposite of asceticism.
Society, with its bills, phones, gas pumps and people, is the
real ordeal.  “Every day spent in a lookout is a day not subtracted from
the sum of one’s life,” he writes.  Connors also keeps company with woodsmen past. He went to
the  New York Public Library  and transcribed Jack Kerouac’s
unpublished diary of a summer spent aloft, including a shopping
list (Beech-Nut gum and Hi Ho crackers). Norman Maclean’s
“ Young Men and Fire”  -- the story of a 1949 Montana blaze and
the “smokejumpers” it killed -- provides a literary
counterpoint to Connors’s unpretentious style.  Aldo Leopold, the 20th-century forester and naturalist who
led the effort to create the wilderness area Connors polices,
looms above them all. With its month-by-month structure, “Fire
Season” mimics Leopold’s “ Sand County Almanac”  and echoes his
tone -- a careful observer delighting in nature and aware of
what threatens it. Cattle, for instance:  ‘Four-Legged Locusts’  “These four-legged locusts,” Connors writes, “have done
more than anything else to inflict widespread damage on the
public lands of the American West. Yet given the power and
persistence of the cattlemen’s lobby, they continue to graze on
the public domain, trampling riparian areas, hastening erosion,
pulverizing wildlife habitat, disturbing the fire regime, and
generally wreaking havoc on the land wherever they roam.”  So, it’s not all whisky and  Frisbees , but the hardships
place the joys -- of family, wilderness, indolence -- in greater
relief.  The summer passes and with it the need for a vigil,
unwelcome news for the author. We share his regret, as our
sojourn with him concludes and we must put this charming volume
aside and resume our drab existence indoors.  “A fine piece of luck for my work and leisure to be one
and the same.”  “Fire Season” is published by Ecco (246 pages, $24.99).
To buy this book in North America click  here .  (Andrew Dunn writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Andrew Dunn  in New York at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  