-- 
Dollar Rises Toward Six-Month High Versus Yen on Bernanke Inflation View

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-04-05T17:04:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/dollar-strengthens-versus-euro-on-bernanke-inflation-preparedness-comments.html
The dollar rose toward a six-month
high against the yen as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said yesterday inflation must be watched “extremely closely,”
spurring bets  interest rates  may be raised sooner than forecast.  Australia ’s dollar dropped from almost a record after the
central bank left interest rates on hold for a fourth meeting.
Sterling was the biggest winner versus the dollar among the
most-traded currencies as the U.K.’s service industries
accelerated at the fastest pace in more than a year last month.  “Bernanke sent a signal that the Fed is not losing sight
of the second part of its dual mandate, which is  price
stability ,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “There’s been a lot of focus on
the full-employment side of the mandate. This shifts the focus a
little bit further towards inflation, and that’s helpful for the
dollar.”  The yen declined 0.7 percent to 84.63 versus the dollar at
1:01 p.m. in  New York , from 84.06 yesterday. It touched 84.73 on
April 1, the highest level since Sept. 24. The dollar traded at
$1.4224 per euro, compared with $1.4221. The euro gained 0.7
percent to 120.37 yen, from 119.54.  The pound advanced as much as 1 percent to $1.6295 in the
biggest intraday rally since Jan. 31 on evidence the U.K.’s
economy is recovering.  Markit Economics Ltd. and the Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply said a gauge of U.K. services based on a
survey of companies rose to 57.1, the highest level in 13 months
and above the median forecast of 52.6.  Australian Policy  The Aussie weakened 0.2 percent to $1.0344 after reaching a
record high of $1.0417 yesterday.  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor Glenn Stevens held the overnight cash target rate at
4.75 percent for a fourth straight meeting as floods disrupted
coal mining in the nation’s northeast and a rising currency
tempered inflation.  The greenback strengthened versus the yen after Bernanke
said yesterday in Stone Mountain, Georgia, that policy makers
will “have to respond” if estimates that faster inflation will
be transitory prove incorrect.  The comments echoed his March 1 statement to lawmakers that
Fed officials were “prepared to respond as necessary” to
inflationary pressure. The policy-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee  said following its March 15 meeting that it “will pay
close attention” to the evolution of inflation and inflation
expectations. The central bank will release minutes of the
meeting today.  Fed Target Rate  The Fed has kept its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and
reiterated last month that it would remain there for an
“extended period.”  The dollar pared its gains earlier today as the U.S.
Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-manufacturing
businesses dropped to 57.3 in March. The median forecast of 69
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a decrease to
59.5. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  “It doesn’t indicate weaker inflation pressures, but it
shows the economy cooling somewhat at the edges,”  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group
LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  The yen weakened against the dollar as people familiar with
the matter said the  Bank of Japan  is considering offering
temporary loans to banks to aid companies with cash-flow
shortages following the March 11 earthquake.  BOJ Proposal  The plan may be presented to the BOJ board as early as this
month, the people said, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the discussions weren’t public.  The BOJ will keep its target rate at zero to 0.1 percent on
April 7, according to all of the 14 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The  European Central Bank  will increase its main
refinancing rate by a quarter-percentage point from a record low
1 percent at its meeting that day, according to all of the 57
economists in a separate Bloomberg News survey.  “We’re looking at various stages of a more hawkish ECB and
Fed,” said  John McCarthy , director of  currency trading  at ING
Groep NV in New York. “That corresponds to both a real
interest-rate differential between  Europe , the U.S. and Japan,
and that has underpinned dollar-yen and euro-yen.”  The euro fell earlier against the dollar after Moody’s
Investors Service lowered Portugal’s long-term credit rating by
one step to Baa1.  Canada’s Yen Selling  Canada said it sold $124 million worth of yen, or almost
half of its $252 million of yen reserves, in the March 18 joint
intervention by the Group of Seven countries, the nation’s
finance department said it its monthly official international
reserve report.  G-7 countries jointly intervened last month in the foreign-
exchange market for the first time in more than a decade after
 Japan ’s currency soared to its highest level since World War II,
threatening the nation’s recovery from the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami. The total size of the G-7 intervention has been
estimated at about $25 billion.  The yen has weakened 4 percent in the past month, the
biggest decline among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  