-- 
Lehman, Paulson Plans ‘Strip’ Value, State Street Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-04-05T20:18:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/lehman-paulson-plans-strip-value-from-unit-creditors-state-street-says.html
Two payment plans for  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , proposed by the defunct firm and a group
including hedge fund Paulson & Co., would “strip” value from
creditors of Lehman’s operating units to give to bondholders,
State Street Bank & Trust Co. said in a court filing.  State Street is a “substantial” creditor of Lehman and of
its commercial paper unit, the bank said in the filing in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan  today. While the Lehman parent is
“well represented by professionals who have, in practical
terms, a limitless budget,” creditors of the operating debtors
have no exclusive representation, it said.  “No estate representative uniquely protects any of the
creditors of the operating debtors -- even though their Chapter
11 cases, standing alone, certainly would constitute
‘megacases,’” it said.  Opposition is mounting to Lehman’s proposed $61 billion
plan, which creditors are due to vote on by Oct. 14. More than
10 holders of derivatives claims against Lehman, including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , are almost ready to file a rival
payment plan that would take back money that Lehman and Paulson
sought to give to bondholders, said two people familiar with the
matter.  Separately, Giants Stadium LLC, which has about
$300 million in derivatives claims against a Lehman unit, said
the defunct firm must publicly announce estimates for such
claims, according to a filing.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  State Street made the statements about an “imbalance” in
Lehman’s plan as part of an objection to “awkward” mechanisms
devised by Lehman for a sharing of documents needed to back up
the payment proposals, according to the filing.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  