-- 
Lehman Minibond Investors in Hong Kong Object to Settlement

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n
-- 
2011-04-05T01:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/lehman-minibond-investors-in-hong-kong-object-to-settlement-1-.html
Hong Kong holders of $1.5 billion of
worthless  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc (LEHMQ) .-linked structured
financial notes called minibonds objected to a proposed
settlement, saying it interfered with their lawsuit against
Lehman and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , according to court documents.  Lawyers for the minibond holders asked the bankruptcy court
not to approve Lehman’s proposed order to establish a procedure
for the settlement, which they say allows Lehman to extract
hundreds of millions of dollars from the minibonds program,
according to today’s filing in Manhattan bankruptcy court.  About 43,000 investors in Hong Kong bought an estimated
$1.8 billion of Lehman minibonds that were sold by lenders
before the New York-based investment bank filed for bankruptcy
in 2008. Investors protested almost daily outside bank branches
in  Hong Kong , banging cymbals and blaring pre-recorded
statements from bullhorns after they were offered repayments of
at least 60 cents on the dollar in 2009.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC, Lehman’s receiver, said on
March 27 the repayment offer was boosted so some minibond
holders may receive 70 percent to 93 percent of their money
back. Some investors want all their money refunded.  Suit Allowed  A federal district court judge in Manhattan ruled in August
that Lehman and HSBC could be sued over the securities sold to
the Hong Kong investors, reversing part of a decision by
Lehman’s bankruptcy judge who said the investors lacked
standing.  Pacific International Finance Ltd. issued the minibonds and
marketed them as linked to the credit of financially sound
companies and backed by AAA-rated collateral, U.S. district
Judge William Pauley III said. A Hong Kong regulatory
investigation disclosed that Lehman designed the minibonds
program, the judge said.  HSBC Bank USA  was selected as trustee
of the collateral securing the notes, Pauley said, citing
testimony in the Hong Kong proceeding.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  