-- 
Televisa Drops Most in Four Months as Iusacell Talks Disclosed

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-04-05T21:54:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/televisa-drops-most-in-four-months-as-iusacell-talks-disclosed.html
Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO) , the world’s
biggest Spanish-language broadcaster, fell the most in four
months in  Mexico  City trading after saying it is discussing a
partnership with mobile-phone carrier Grupo Iusacell SA to enter
the wireless market.  Televisa fell 1.6 pesos, or 2.7 percent, to 58.38 pesos at
4 p.m. New York time, the biggest drop since Dec. 8. The
broadcaster, down 8.7 percent this year, was the day’s biggest
loser among the 37 companies in Mexico’s benchmark IPC index.  Televisa has said it plans to participate in the wireless
business, either through a direct investment or a reselling
arrangement, because it expects growth in the industry.
Executive Vice President Alfonso de Angoitia said in February
the company would consider all options for wireless.  Investors fear Televisa will spend too much to enter the
mobile-phone market, straying from its strengths in the media
business, said Martin Lara, an analyst at Corp Actinver SAB in
Mexico City. Televisa’s plan last year to invest $1.44 billion
in Iusacell rival  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  hurt the stock before the
deal was abandoned, he said.  “If it’s a small amount of resources, there’s no
problem,” said Lara, who doesn’t have a recommendation on
Televisa shares. “If it’s a very large amount that it wants to
invest in Iusacell, it would add risk to the stock.”  Antitrust Complaint  Closely held Iusacell, based in Mexico City, is controlled
by  Ricardo Salinas , whose TV Azteca SAB has the second-largest
broadcast television audience in Mexico. Televisa has about 70
percent of the TV market, while Azteca has about 30 percent.  America Movil’s Mexican fixed-line unit, Telefonos de
Mexico SAB, filed an antitrust complaint against Televisa and TV
Azteca last month alleging monopolistic practices in broadcast
advertising. Televisa and Iusacell also filed antitrust
complaints last month against Telmex and against America Movil’s
Mexican mobile-phone unit, Telcel.  Iusacell has also begun a service in Mexico City offering
home-phone, TV and Internet service over fiber-optic lines,
competing against cable-TV carriers controlled by Televisa.
Iusacell filed for  bankruptcy protection  in December in Mexico.  Televisa withdrew from its planned investment last year
with NII Holdings, Mexico’s fourth-largest wireless carrier,
after Iusacell went to court to challenge NII’s victory in a
government auction of mobile-phone airwaves. The company has
also explored a partnership with Telefonica.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  