-- 
English Doesn’t See Need for New Zealand Interest-Rate Cuts; Kiwi Climbs

-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-04-05T03:21:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/english-says-i-would-be-surprised-at-another-n-z-rate-cut.html
New Zealand  probably won’t need to
lower borrowing costs again because business confidence will
rebound from a slump after the nation’s deadliest earthquake in
80 years, Finance Minister Bill English said.  “I would be surprised if another one was needed,” English
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today. “The
Reserve Bank cut interest rates within a few weeks of the
earthquake anticipating just this reaction from business.”  The local dollar rose to a four-month high against the yen
as English’s remarks boosted confidence in the nation’s economy.
Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard reduced the
official cash rate by half a percentage point to 2.5 percent in
March after the magnitude 6.3 quake that struck Christchurch
Feb. 22 killed at least 170 people and hurt growth.  New Zealand’s economy expanded 0.2 percent in the fourth
quarter, avoiding a recession after it shrank in the July to-
September period. Bollard last month forecast gross domestic
product may contract in the first three months of 2011 before a
modest recovery resumes.  “The economy continues to hold its head above water
despite being battered by a series of significant shocks,” said
Stephen Toplis, head of research at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington. “The  Reserve Bank  will feel very comfortable that
it is doing the right thing.”  Kiwi Climbs  Ten of 14 economists surveyed last month forecast Bollard
will keep the benchmark interest rate unchanged until next year.
Four expect an increase in the fourth quarter.  The  New Zealand dollar , known as the kiwi, climbed to as
high as 64.88 yen after English’s comments, the strongest since
Nov. 22. It rose as much as 0.2 percent to 76.96 U.S. cents and
traded at 76.83 cents at 3:07 p.m. in Wellington.  Business confidence slumped to a two-year low in the first
quarter, a report showed today. A net 27 percent of 690
companies surveyed expect the economy will deteriorate over the
next six months, the  New Zealand Institute of Economic Research 
said. The confidence gauge was the lowest since the first
quarter of 2009.  Christchurch city, which makes up about 15 percent of the
economy, was hit by a magnitude 7 earthquake in September before
February’s temblor, and the nation faces total damage of as much
as NZ$15 billion ($12 billion), according to government
estimates.  ‘Psychological Knock’  “The whole country took a psychological knock with the
scale of the Christchurch earthquake,” English said by
telephone from Gore, on the nation’s  South Island . “Business
confidence will bounce back.”  Economic growth will be limited to 1.3 percent this year
before accelerating to 5.4 percent in 2012, according to the
central bank.  “The outlook is pretty good,” English said. “Business
confidence will come back particularly as the recovery effort in
Christchurch builds up. We will have very large insurance
inflows and that is going to stimulate a higher level of
activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 