-- 
EnQuest to Raise Output, Says Osborne Tax May Hurt Spending

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-04-05T15:58:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/enquest-to-raise-output-says-osborne-tax-may-hurt-spending-1-.html
EnQuest Plc (ENQ) , the North Sea oil
producer, said it will raise output by 26 percent this year even
as a higher U.K. tax on profits discourages investment.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised the tax
rate on oil production profit to 62 percent from 50 percent to
pay for a  tax cut  on gasoline for consumers as  oil prices  rose
to $120 a barrel. Shares of EnQuest are down more than 10
percent since the announcement, which RBC Capital Markets said
lowers the value of U.K. assets by as much as 20 percent.  “We’re very disappointed by the tax increase,” EnQuest
Chief Executive Officer Amjad Bseisu said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “In the short term, we see our
targets will be maintained. But without a change, the decline
rate on  North Sea  output will increase significantly.”  EnQuest still plans to drill eight wells this year to bring
production to 26,500 barrels of oil equivalent a day from last
year’s 21,074 barrels a day. Bseisu quadrupled cash flow last
year to $267.7 million and said he’s looking to acquire more
companies and fields after the purchase of Stratic Energy Corp.,
completed in November.  Shares closed unchanged at 137.6 pence. Since EnQuest was
spun off in a combination of assets from Petrofac Plc and Lundin
Petroleum AB a year ago, the stock has climbed 38 percent.  The surge in oil prices will bolster profit this year,
Bseisu said.  Brent crude  rose as high as $122.89 a barrel in
London trading today.  ‘Silver Lining’  Osborne’s tax increase may have a “silver lining” for
companies focused on the North Sea by discouraging other
operators from entering the region and by helping them negotiate
lower prices on acquisitions, Bseisu said. EnQuest may also look
to expand outside the U.K. and could spend up to $1 billion
buying fields or companies, he said.  “The North Sea tax regime change presents both challenges
and opportunities for us,” Bseisu told journalists on a
conference call today. “Clearly it doesn’t create a positive
climate for investment and will make some smaller fields
uneconomic. However, we remain confident in our targets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  