-- 
Radioactivity Found in Fish as Tepco Purges Nuclear Plant

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-04-05T18:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/tepco-dumping-toxic-water-angers-fishermen-stock-plunges.html
Radioactivity in fish exceeding
health guidelines was detected for the first time off northern
 Japan  as Tokyo Electric Power Co. dumped tainted water into the
ocean to gain control of its crippled nuclear plant.  Cesium radioactivity in sand-lance caught south of the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant was 526 becquerel per kilogram,
compared with a health ministry standard of 500 becquerel,
Makato Osodo, of the fishing policy division of the Ibaraki
prefectural government, said in a telephone interview.  Fukushima Prefectural Federation of Fisheries  Co-operative
Associations asked the company, known as Tepco, to stop dumping
radioactive water into the sea. Dumping began April 3 because
radioactive water on site is hindering repair of cooling pumps.
Discharges continued, Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety
Agency said.  “Clearly, they haven’t got the site under control,” said
Richard Wakeford, a visiting professor of epidemiology at the
University of Manchester’s  Dalton Nuclear Institute  in  England .
“They’ve got to make difficult decisions and one of those is
you get rid of the mildly radioactive liquid to make way for the
really contaminated liquid.”  Fishing in Ibaraki Prefecture has been suspended since the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami that damaged the plant, leading
radioactivity to escape into water and air. The number of dead
and missing following the earthquake and tsunami reached 27,688
as of 10 a.m. local time yesterday, according to the  National
Police Agency  in Tokyo.  Cancer Danger  Exposure to Cesium-137, among the isotopes Tepco says were
released from the plant, increases the risk of cancer, according
to the  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency . Japan has struggled
to keep the radioactive fuel at the Fukushima reactors cool
after equipment was damaged by the earthquake and tsunami,
triggering the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  Tokyo Electric  plunged the daily limit of 80 yen, or 18
percent, to close at 362 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange
yesterday, the lowest since its listing in August 1951. The
stock has dropped 83 percent since the day before the magnitude-
9 earthquake.  Risk Low  The risk to people from the deliberate discharge at the
Fukushima plant is low, according to the Vienna-based
 International Atomic Energy Agency .  The potential additional radiation dose to a person eating
seaweed or seafood caught near the Fukushima plant every day for
a year would be 0.6 millisievert, the agency said in a  statement .
That compares to 0.85 millisievert from a year of exposure to
granite that comprises the U.S. Capitol, according to the  U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers .  With a radioactive half-life of 30 years, cesium can build
up in the meat of marine predators as they eat smaller animals,
said Karen Gaines, chairwoman of the biology department at the
University of Eastern Illinois in Charleston.  “If they’re going to restart fisheries and make people
feel comfortable, they’ll need real-time monitoring of the
catch,” said Gaines, who studies radioactive cesium in animals
at the Savannah River Site in  South Carolina , which made
plutonium for U.S. nuclear weapons.  Insuring Debt  The cost of insuring Tokyo Electric’s debt jumped 27 basis
points to 391 basis points, according to CMA prices for credit-
default swaps. The contracts, which rise as perceptions of
 credit quality  deteriorate, reached a record 447 basis points
March 31.  Tokyo Electric is paying 20 million yen ($237,276) to each
of 10 local governments affected by the disaster, Vice President
Takashi Fujimoto said at a news conference. The utility may ask
government assistance to pay compensation, Fujimoto said.  To handle the plant’s radioactive material, Japan has asked
Russia for a waste-treatment plant housed on a barge, Sergei Novikov, a spokesman for Rosatom Corp., said in Moscow.  There are about 60,000 tons of contaminated water in
basements and trenches outside reactors No. 1, 2 and 3, said
Takeo Iwamoto, a company spokesman.  Tokyo  Electric plans to pump
half of that to a waste-treatment facility and the rest to tanks
and floating storage vessels, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  