-- 
EU Complains at WTO Over U.S. Duties on ThyssenKrupp Steel

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-04-05T18:25:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/eu-complains-at-wto-over-u-s-duties-on-thyssenkrupp-steel-2-.html
The European Union complained at the
 World Trade Organization  that U.S. anti-dumping duties on
imports of stainless-steel sheet and strip in coils produced by
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  in  Italy  are based on a mathematical mistake.  Essen, Germany-based ThyssenKrupp has been paying the
levies for dumping, or selling goods below cost, since 1999
based on what the EU calls a simple mathematical error -- an
inverted fraction. Without the error, there is no dumping, as
defined under WTO rules, and consequently, there should be no
measures, said  John Clancy , the European Commission’s trade
spokesman in Brussels.  “Since 2007, the EU has been trying to resolve the issue
and has exhausted all other possible means,” he said by e-mail
today. “The U.S. has been conducting a sunset review and on
Dec. 20 disclosed its provisional determination to continue the
measures for another five years, again refusing to correct the
error.”  The EU’s decision to request WTO consultations is aimed at
resolving the dispute before the sunset review -- an evaluation
of whether a program should be extended -- is completed on April
28, Clancy said.  The U.S. is “very disappointed that the EU has taken this
step, particularly given that only preliminary determinations
have been issued by the  Department of Commerce  and the
International Trade Commission,” said Nefeterius McPherson,
spokeswoman for the U.S. Trade Representative’s Office in
 Washington . “We consider it premature for the EU to seek formal
WTO consultations when the domestic administrative proceedings
have not been completed and final determinations are scheduled
to be issued in coming months.”  The April 1 request for consultations is the first step in
the case. Under  WTO rules , the EU and the U.S. must now hold
talks for at least two months in a bid to resolve the dispute.
If the talks fail, the EU can ask WTO judges in Geneva to rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  