-- 
EU Proposes Mandatory Shareholder Vote on Executive Bonuses

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-04-05T16:36:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/eu-proposes-mandatory-shareholder-voting-on-executive-bonuses.html
Executives at listed companies may
be forced to put their bonus packages to a shareholder vote
under measures proposed by the European Union today.  The  European Commission  plans to toughen management pay
rules, increase the number of female directors, and make senior
managers responsible for a company’s risk-management strategy.
It is seeking outside comment on the proposals and companies
have until July 22 to respond.  “Above all we need company boards to be more effective and
shareholders to fully assume their responsibilities,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  The move comes as companies are increasing pay for top
managers.  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , the third-biggest insurer in the U.K.
by market value, yesterday increased Chief Executive Officer
Julian Roberts’s pay by 13 percent after the company’s full-year
loss narrowed.  “The commission should look closely at the lessons learnt
from the financial crisis, but only apply new measures if they
are appropriate to all listed companies,” Matthew Fell, director
for competitive markets for the Confederation of British
Industry in  London , said in an e-mailed statement.  A German shareholder-protection group said last week
Daimler AG’s executive pay packages lacked transparency and that
it planned to challenge them at the company’s April 13
shareholders’ meeting.  “Corporate governance is a product of local regulation
and culture, and balances the need for growth with the need to
manage risk,”  Mark Wippell , a corporate law partner at  Allen &
Overy LLP , a law firm, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  