-- 
European Stocks Climb, Led by Tech Shares; Storebrand Advances

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-04-05T16:16:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/european-index-futures-are-little-changed-solvay-might-drop-bhp-may-gain.html
European stocks climbed for a third
day, led by technology companies, after  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) 
agreed to buy National Semiconductor Corp., fueling optimism
that company spending will push shares higher.  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  and  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,
Europe’s largest chipmakers, led gains on the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Storebrand ASA (STB)  rallied 4.5 percent as Morgan Stanley
added the insurer’s shares to its best ideas list.  The Stoxx 600 advanced 0.2 percent to 280.91 at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London . The benchmark has risen 7.1 percent from
this year’s low on March 16 as investors speculated that the
economic recovery will withstand  Japan ’s worst earthquake on
record and popular revolts in the Middle East and north  Africa .  “More shareholder-friendly policies are being made
possible thanks to past corporate deleveraging and significant
cash positions, with a mix of dividends, buybacks or M&A
moves,” Alain Bokobza, the head of asset allocation strategy at
Societe Generale SA wrote in a report dated yesterday. “We
maintain a heavy exposure to European equities.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 6 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index lost 0.2 percent,
while  France ’s CAC 40 Index and  Germany ’s DAX Index both
retreated less than 0.1 percent.  U.S. Non-Manufacturing  Stocks in  Europe  climbed even as a U.S. gauge of service
industries fell, China raised  interest rates  and Portugal’s
credit rating was cut at Moody’s Investors Service.  The Institute for Supply Management’s gauge of service
industries decreased in March. The index slipped to 57.3 from
59.7 in February. That fell short of the average economist
estimate for a reading of 59.5.  The  Federal Reserve  will publish the minutes from the
Federal Open Market Committee’s March 15 meeting at 2 p.m.
Washington time, after the close of trading in Europe.  China raised interest rates for the fourth time since the
end of the global financial crisis to restrain inflation and
limit the risk of asset bubbles developing in the fastest-
growing major economy. The benchmark one-year lending rate will
increase to 6.31 percent from 6.06 percent, effective from
tomorrow, the People’s Bank of  China  said on its website at the
end of a national holiday.  Portugal’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s, which said the
government will probably seek a European bailout. Moody’s
downgraded Portugal’s long-term government bond ratings by one
notch to Baa1 from A3, and said the rating remains under review
for another possible downgrade.  STMicro, Infineon  STMicroelectronics, Europe’s largest chipmaker, rose 2.9
percent to 9.04 euros. Infineon Technologies, the region’s
second-biggest, increased 3.9 percent to 7.75 euros. Texas
Instruments, the second-largest U.S. chipmaker, agreed to buy
National Semiconductor for about $6.5 billion, its biggest
acquisition, to expand its analog semiconductors business.  The Stoxx 600 has surged 78 percent from its low in March
2009 as government stimulus measures, higher-than-estimated
earnings and corporate takeovers boosted investors’ optimism.
There have been 6,277 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $642.9 billion, a 27 percent increase from the $506.5
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Yesterday, stocks in Europe rose as  Solvay SA (SOLB) 
agreed to buy Rhodia SA for 3.4 billion euros ($4.8 billion).  TUI,  Home Retail   TUI AG (TUI1)  climbed 3 percent to 8.78 euros. The owner of
Europe’s biggest tour operator has held talks with potential
buyers of a stake in its container shipping unit Hapag-Lloyd AG,
company spokesman Robin Zimmermann said in an e-mailed
statement. Reuters earlier reported that a state fund in Oman
has bought a 15 percent stake in Hapag-Lloyd.  TUI has said it wants to invest proceeds from a possible
initial public offering of Hapag-Lloyd in its tourism business.
TUI Travel, which is 51 percent owned by TUI, jumped 2.4 percent
to 228.5 pence.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  rose 1.7 percent to 208.1 pence after
U.S. investment firm Madison Dearborn Partners LLC increased its
stake to 4.25 percent, the owner of the Argos chain said
yesterday. That compares with the 3.2 percent stake that Home
Retail announced in mid March.  Storebrand gained 4.5 percent to 49.53 kroner as Morgan
Stanley added the insurer’s shares to its best ideas list.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA and Electricite de France SA both sank after
French Prime Minister Francois Fillon said the pair will not
raise natural gas prices on July 1. GDF, France’s former gas
monopoly, slid 1.9 percent to 27.73 euros. EDF retreated 3.7
percent to 28.45 euros. Fillon also said the government will
limit an increase in the regulated power prices charged by EDF.  Bayer, Siemens Slide  Bayer sank 3.6 percent to 54.65 euros. Johnson & Johnson
and Bayer’s experimental pill Xarelto raised bleeding rates in a
study, even as it prevented blood clots from forming in
critically ill hospital patients as well as a standard
injection.  Siemens AG (SIE)  slipped 1.3 percent to 96.87 euros as Chief
Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said growth will slow in the second
half of the year at a presentation the Munich-based company gave
to analysts today.  Vestas Wind Systems AS, the world’s largest turbine maker,
slumped 4.9 percent to 213.40 kroner. The stock was cut to
“hold” from “buy” at Nordea Bank AB.  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  lost 2.5 percent to 2.31 euros. Groupe
Lactalis, the French maker of President unsalted butter, is
evaluating whether to make a takeover bid for Parmalat or sell
its 29 percent holding, daily Il Sole 24 Ore reported, without
saying where it got the information.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  declined 1.5 percent to 176.2 pence. The
stock was cut to “reduce” from “neutral” at Evolution Group
Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 