-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Silver Costliest Vs Gold Since 1983

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-04-05T07:05:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/europe-commodity-day-ahead-silver-costliest-vs-gold-since-1983.html
Following are the top stories on
metals and agriculture:  
TOP STORY:  Silver Advances to Most Expensive Versus Gold Since 1983  Silver climbed to its most expensive level versus gold
since 1983 as rising inflation spurred by commodity shortages,
economic recovery and turmoil in the Middle East bolstered
demand for the metal.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Xstrata Says China’s Copper Demand to Recover, Reducing Stocks  Xstrata Plc said a build-up in copper stocks, responsible
for the metal’s worst first quarter in a decade, will end in
“the next couple of months” as buyers return to the
marketplace.  China Need to Buy  Africa  Means Equinox Bid Rises 18%: Real M&A  China’s need to acquire metal deposits in Africa is leading
traders to bet that Minmetals Resources Ltd. will increase its
offer for  Australia ’s Equinox Minerals Ltd. more than any
pending deal in Asia.  China, India Seeking Coal From  South Africa , Universal Says  China and India, Asia’s two fastest- growing economies, are
seeking to invest in coal assets in South Africa to diversify
supplies after disruptions in output from Australia and
Indonesia, said Universal Coal Ltd.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Gains on Shortage Forecast; Lead Trades Near 3-Year High  Copper rallied on expectation demand will outstrip supply,
while lead traded near the highest price in almost three years
on speculation that rebuilding from the Japanese earthquake
disaster will spur consumption.  MINING:  NMDC Seeks $500 Million of Coal, Iron Ore Assets Overseas (1)  NMDC Ltd.,  Asia ’s third-largest iron ore producer, plans to
buy as much as $500 million of coking coal and iron ore assets
overseas to expand capacity and secure resources for its venture
into steelmaking.  Vale Names Murilo Ferreira as CEO, Replacing Roger Agnelli (1)  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron- ore producer, said its
controlling shareholders named Murilo Pinto de Oliveira Ferreira
as chief executive officer, replacing Roger Agnelli after the
Brazilian government criticized the company’s strategy for the
past two years.  Australia’s Trade Balance Unexpectedly Swings to Deficit (1)  Australia’s trade balance unexpectedly swung to a deficit
in February for the first time in almost a year as disruptions
from natural disasters cut mining shipments and higher fuel
costs boosted imports.  Extract Says  Namibia  Uranium Project to Cost $1.66 Billion (1)  Extract Resources Ltd.’s Husab project in Namibia, expected
to become one of the three biggest uranium mines in the world,
will cost an estimated $1.66 billion to develop, the Australian
explorer said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Advances on Inflation Outlook; Silver Gains to 31-Year High  Gold climbed for a second day as rising oil and grain
prices fanned concerns that inflation is accelerating,
supporting demand for the precious metal as an alternative
investment. Silver reached a 31-year peak.  Gold, Silver Sales to Double on Investor Demand, Exchange Said  American Precious Metals Exchange, one of the largest U.S.
gold and silver dealers, said its sales may double this year as
retail investors seek a hedge against financial turmoil,
inflation and Japan’s nuclear crisis.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil  Drops on Speculation  Brazil  Soybean Harvest to Improve  Palm oil fell for the first time in five days on forecasts
the soybean harvest may be better than earlier estimated in
Brazil, the second-largest exporter, and as higher prices
prompted investors to sell.  Rubber Jumps to 1-Month High on Yen’s Drop, Thai Supply Concern  Rubber surged to a one-month high as a drop in the Japanese
currency boosted the appeal of yen-based contracts and flooding
in  Thailand  raised concern that supply from the world’s largest
exporter will decline.  Dry Weather Risk Rising for West Australia Sowing, Rabobank Says  The risk was rising for continued poor soil moisture
conditions in Australia’s largest grain- growing state of
 Western Australia , Rabobank said in a report today on the
outlook for winter crop planting.  China Corn Imports to Grow on Ethanol, Feed, JPMorgan Says  China’s imports of corn will increase on the use of ethanol
and feed, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Corn Near 33-Month Peak as Supply Shrinks; Wheat at 4-Week High  Corn traded near its highest level in 33 months, wheat
climbed to its most expensive in four weeks and soybeans gained
on concern global supplies of grains may fail to keep pace with
demand, draining inventories.  SHIPPING:  Tanker Rates Show No Fear of Tokyo Radiation: Chart of the Day  The cost of hauling oil from the Middle East to Asia is
signaling few concerns among ship owners that radiation from a
crippled nuclear plant in  Japan  poses a threat to vessels or
crew.  ECONOMIES:  RBA Keeps Key Rate at 4.75% as Rising Currency Eases Prices (1)  Australia’s central bank left its benchmark interest rate
at the highest level in the developed world as floods disrupt
coal mining in the nation’s northeast and a rising currency
tempers inflation.  Spain Banks Braved Spread Surge to Lock in Funds: Euro Credit  Spanish banks sold about 33.3 billion euros ($47.5 billion)
of debt so far this year, enduring higher borrowing costs that
have since declined on optimism about the government’s steps to
cut the deficit.  OTHER MARKETS:  Yen Weakens, Treasuries Fall on Growth Signs, Inflation Concern  The yen and Treasuries declined on speculation data today
will show improving global growth and as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said inflation expectations must be
watched “extremely closely.” Asia stocks slid, dragging the
main regional index from a three-week high.  Asian Stocks Drop as Tepco Dumps Radioactive Water; Toyota Falls  Asian stocks dropped, with the regional benchmark index
retreating from a three-week high, after Tokyo Electric Power Co.
began dumping radioactive water from its crippled nuclear plant
and semiconductor stocks declined.  Oil Falls From 30-Month High on Signs of Supply Gains in the U.S  Oil dropped from the highest since September 2008 in  New
York  on speculation U.S. inventories rose to the highest in four
months as prices depress fuel demand in the world’s biggest
crude consumer.  SPORTS:  Japan Withdraws From Copa America Following Earthquake, Tsunami  Japan withdrew from July’s Copa America soccer tournament
as the country deals with the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
that devastated its northeast region.  Real  Madrid  Cedes Power to Top Earner Mourinho as Fans Fret  Jose Mourinho  is dismantling a half- century-old hierarchy
at Real Madrid without saying how long he’ll stay at soccer’s
biggest club by sales.  World Cup  to Enrich Indian Cricketers as BP, Canon Seek Deals  After smashing  India  to cricket World Cup victory, batsmen
 Yuvraj Singh  and Gautam Gambhir may see a 30 percent jump in
earnings as companies including BP Plc and Canon Inc. vie for
their endorsements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 Kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  