-- 
Europe Retail Sales Unexpectedly Fall as Energy Costs Soar

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-04-05T09:37:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/european-retail-sales-unexpectedly-fell-in-february-on-germany.html
European retail sales unexpectedly
declined in February as surging energy costs prompted consumers
to cut back spending.  Sales in the 17-nation euro region slipped 0.1 percent from
January, when they advanced 0.2 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg, Eurostat, said today.
Economists forecast a 0.1 percent gain, the median of 18
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. Sales rose 0.1
percent on the year.  European households may keep spending plans on hold as
rising energy prices erode their purchasing power amid
government budget cuts.  Consumer confidence  weakened in March
and inflation quickened to the fastest in more than two years.
The  European Central Bank  has signaled it is ready to raise
borrowing costs on April 7 to fight price pressures.  “Higher energy prices and fiscal austerity measures are
restraining consumers’ ability to buy,” said Martin van Vliet,
an economist at ING Group in Amsterdam. “The current weakness
in high street spending would have been worse if not for the
improving labor market in ‘core’ euro-zone countries,  Germany  in
particular, which is acting as an important support for overall
euro-zone  consumer spending .”  The euro was lower against the dollar following today’s
data and traded at $1.4182, down 0.3 percent, at 11:22 a.m. in
Brussels.  Germany’s Economy  In Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, companies are
increasing spending and hiring to meet export orders from
emerging nations such as  China . German unemployment fell twice
as much as economists forecast in March.  Across Europe, growth in the services and manufacturing
industries accelerated more than initially estimated in March,
led by Germany and  France , data showed today. Service-sector
business activity “accelerated to the strongest since August
2007, suggesting a further broadening out of the recovery beyond
the goods-producing sector,” London-based Markit Economics
said.  German retail sales dropped 0.3 percent in February from
January, when they rose 0.4 percent, today’s Eurostat report
showed. Spanish sales fell for a fourth month, declining 0.3
percent, while Irish consumers cut spending by 0.6 percent in
February. In France, sales dropped 1.1 percent.  European retailers have relied on faster-growing economies
to boost sales as rising unemployment and austerity measures
eroded consumer demand at home.  L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest
cosmetics maker, said on March 18 it aims to double sales in
Brazil by 2015. Francesco Trapani, chief executive officer at
Italian jeweller  Bulgari SpA (BUL) , said last month he’s “cautiously
optimistic” after January and February sales rose 25 percent.  In the 27-nation EU, retail sales fell 0.1 percent in
February from the previous month, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  