-- 
Taylor Bean Ex-Chairman Farkas Ran Conspiracy, Former President Testifies

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-06T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/ex-taylor-bean-president-says-ex-chairman-farkas-ran-conspiracy.html
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage
Corp.’s former chairman,  Lee Farkas , ordered data sent to
Colonial Bank for nonexistent loans in an effort to cover up the
company’s growing deficits, a company ex-president said.  Raymond Bowman, 45, testifying yesterday for the government
in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia, said Farkas in 2003
explained that the sale of “dummy” loans, known as Plan B,
were necessary to prevent Taylor Bean from going out of
business.  “I told him I didn’t think it was a good idea,” said
Bowman, who pleaded guilty last month to conspiracy and to
making false statements. Bowman said he thought the plan was
unethical and “possibly illegal.”  Farkas, 58, is charged with orchestrating a $1.9 billion
fraud scheme involving fake mortgage assets that duped some of
the country’s largest financial institutions, targeted the U.S.
bank bailout program and contributed to the failure of
Montgomery, Alabama-based  Colonial Bank .  Bowman is one of six people who have admitted to the
conspiracy and are scheduled to testify against Farkas, who is
charged with 14 counts of wire, bank and securities fraud. If
convicted of the single conspiracy charge, Farkas faces a prison
term of as long as 30 years.  Bruce Rogow, a lawyer for Farkas, challenged Bowman’s
testimony, noting the former executive admitted to lying to
federal investigators probing Taylor Bean.  ‘Were You Lying’  “You were a salesman for TBW, trying to get the outside
world to have confidence in you,” Rogow said. “Were you lying
to all those people?”  “If I was talking about the condition of  Taylor Bean , then
yes, I was lying,” Bowman said.  Bowman spent more than two hours on the witness stand
describing how he and other executives at Taylor Bean and
Colonial Bank were in a constant search for money.  He said the financial problems began as early as 2002,
around the same time federal mortgage financier  Fannie Mae  said
it would no longer buy loans from Taylor Bean because the
company was considered to be an “operational risk.”  Fannie Mae, based in  Washington , represented about 80
percent of the company’s business. He said the relationship
ended because Fannie Mae found that six loans Taylor Bean had
sold to it defaulted before a single payment had been made. The
loans were in Farkas’s name and were loans that Fannie Mae had
rejected once before, Bowman said.  “It was bad,” Bowman said.  Losing Money  “Did Taylor Bean lose any money from the termination?”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Charles Connolly asked.  “The servicing rights we were supposed to sell did not
trade well,” said Bowman, adding that potential buyers
“assumed TBW was going to go out of business at that point.”  Bowman said officials from  Freddie Mac , which in 2002
consisted of about 5 to 10 percent of Taylor Bean’s business,
visited Ocala.  “We explained what happened and they decided to keep us,”
Bowman said.  From that point, he said Taylor sold 100 percent of its
conventional loan business to Freddie Mac and the McLean,
Virginia-based government-backed mortgage financier accounted
for 80 percent of the company’s overall business.  Taylor Bean was having trouble coming up with cash for
operating expenses, such as payroll and mortgage-loan servicing
payments owed to Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, prosecutors have
said.  Moving Money  With assistance from officials at Colonial Bank, at one
time among the 50 biggest in the U.S., Farkas masked shortfalls
of about $15 million a day by moving money from another Taylor
Bean account into the company’s master account, then returning
the money later in the day, according to a related SEC lawsuit.  Bowman was vice president and director of secondary
marketing at Taylor Bean from October 1999 until 2002. That
year, he was promoted to president and reported directly to
Farkas.  Bowman, who is set to be sentenced on June 10, faces a
maximum sentence of 10 years in prison, plus a fine of as much
as $500,000 and full restitution to victims, according to
prosecutors.  Bowman testified yesterday that he examined several loans
and concluded that by retaining the servicing rights to the
loans it originated, Taylor Bean was losing about $1,200 in
capital per loan.  Account Overdrawn  By December 2003, Taylor Bean was overdrawing its account
by about $150 million a day, the SEC said.  Bowman said “Plan B” was put into place by Farkas and
Catherine Kissick, head of Colonial Bank’s Mortgage Warehouse
Lending Division.  “Lee said we had two options,” Bowman testified. “Not do
it and shut the company down. Cathy would lose her job and
probably go to jail. Or, borrow money through Plan B, pay her
back, and move forward.”  Kissick pleaded guilty in March to conspiracy, admitting
she helped Farkas and Taylor Bean hide overdrafts for more than
seven years. Prosecutors said she will testify for the U.S. at
the trial.  By the end of 2007, the scheme consisted of about $500
million in fake residential  mortgage loans  and about $1 billion
in unmarketable residential mortgage loans and securities, the
SEC said in court papers.  Cash Diverted  Farkas and the conspirators diverted cash from Ocala
Funding LLC, a financing vehicle used and controlled by Taylor
Bean, to cover its losses, according to court papers.  Ocala Funding issued asset-backed commercial paper to
financial institutions including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s
biggest bank, and Paris-based BNP Paribas, according to court
papers. By August 2009, Ocala’s deficit had grown to $1.5
billion, according to prosecutors.  Rogow asked Bowman about a $300,000 advance on his $440,000
salary for 2009 that Farkas approved in November 2008. Bowman
said he needed some of that money to cover stock losses. He said
he requested the advance after  Barack Obama  was elected
president, saying he believed Obama would raise taxes for those
earning more than $150,000.  “It was kind of a protest,” Bowman said. “I was a voting
Republican at the time.”  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 