-- 
Texas A&M, Notre Dame Meet in Rare Women’s Final Without Connecticut

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/texas-a-m-notre-dame-meet-in-rare-women-s-final-without-connecticut.html
Texas A&M  University coach Gary Blair said it’s good to have “two new faces” playing for
women’s college basketball’s national championship.  Texas A&M is seeking its first title as it plays the
University of Notre Dame tonight in the final of the National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament in Indianapolis.  Notre Dame upset two-time defending champion  Connecticut 
two days ago to reach the title game. Texas A&M knocked off top-
seeded Stanford in its national semifinal to set up the third
women’s championship in 17 years that hasn’t featured
Connecticut, Tennessee or Duke.  “We’re starting to spread it out a little bit more in
women’s basketball instead of everyone going to Tennessee, Duke
and Connecticut, Stanford and a couple other schools,” Blair
said at a news conference. “It’s good for our game.”  Blair, who has a $500,000 base salary, can earn a $50,000
bonus if the Aggies (32-5) win a national championship. He’s
guided Texas A&M to a school-record five straight appearances in
the NCAA tournament.  Notre Dame  (31-7) has won the women’s title once, in 2001,
and coach Muffet McGraw said she isn’t worried about a letdown
after handing Connecticut its second loss in three seasons. The
Fighting Irish also beat UConn in the semifinals during their
2001 title run.  “The focus this team’s been able to bring every day, I’m
not worried about whether or not they’re going to be ready,”
McGraw said. “It was similar in 2001. We beat Connecticut and
everyone said that should have been the final, but we still had
to play one more game. We want to finish it.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  