-- 
Expedia Rises After Settlement With American Airlines in Ticketing Dispute

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-04-05T20:37:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/expedia-rises-after-settlement-with-american-airlines-in-ticketing-dispute.html
Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  rose in Nasdaq trading
after resolving a dispute with  American Airlines  that allows it
to immediately resume selling the carrier’s tickets.  The agreement, which was announced yesterday and includes
Expedia’s Hotwire unit, is the first resolution of disputes
between  AMR Corp. (AMR)  and several online travel agencies and flight
data distributors over American’s plan to use its own Direct
Connect technology to distribute schedules and fares.  “This pact appears to be a compromise that gives something
back to Expedia while improving AMR’s product display
flexibility and control,” James M. Higgins, an analyst for New
York-based Soleil Securities, said in a report. Higgins has a
“hold” rating on  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR.  American and American Eagle fares will return to Expedia
using a traditional global distribution system, or GDS, the
companies said yesterday. Expedia eventually will receive
American fares, schedules and customized products through Direct
Connect. That data will be combined with other airlines’ for
display using GDS technology.  Expedia, based in Bellevue,  Washington , climbed 29 cents,
or 1.3 percent, to $22.72 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most since March 30. AMR slid 4 cents to $6.23
on the New York Stock Exchange.  Expedia pulled American’s fares and flight schedule from
its website and Hotwire on Jan. 1 as part of the dispute over
Direct Connect.  American, the third-biggest U.S. carrier, remains in talks
with Sabre Holdings Corp. over the use of Direct Connect. The
two agreed in January to put a lawsuit filed by American on hold
until June 1 as they tried to negotiate an agreement. Sabre
operates a global distribution system, compiling airline data
and sending it to travel agents.  The airline pulled its data in December from Orbitz
Worldwide Inc., another online travel agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  