-- 
Fed Officials Divided Over Whether to Remove Stimulus in '11, Minutes Show

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-04-05T19:39:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/fed-officials-divided-over-whether-to-remove-stimulus-in-11-minutes-show.html
Federal Reserve policy makers last
month differed over whether to begin removing record stimulus
this year as they debated the path of monetary policy after the
completion of their $600 billion bond-purchase program.  “A few participants indicated that economic conditions
might warrant a move toward less-accommodative monetary policy
this year; a few others noted that exceptional policy
accommodation could be appropriate beyond 2011,” the  Federal
Open Market Committee  said in minutes of its March 15 meeting,
released today in Washington. “Almost all” Fed officials also
saw no need to “taper” Treasury buying after June, jettisoning
their prior strategy of reducing the pace of purchases while
stretching out their duration.  Since the meeting, the labor market and inflation readings
have picked up while growth in  service industries  slowed. Some
regional Fed presidents who were skeptical of the monetary
stimulus have talked about the need to tighten credit, and
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has yet to indicate his preference for
the Fed’s next move after finishing the bond buying.  While the decision to continue the purchases was unanimous,
the Fed said a few of the 10 voting members of the committee
thought evidence of a stronger recovery, higher inflation and
rising inflation expectations “could make it appropriate to
reduce the pace or overall size of the purchase program.” The
minutes said that “several others” said they “did not
anticipate making adjustments.”  Price Measure  U.S. stocks pared gains following the release of the
minutes. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.1 percent to
1,333.75 at 3:24 p.m. in New York after trading as high as
1,338.21 earlier in the day. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note climbed to 3.487 percent in New York, up from 3.42 percent
yesterday.  “I don’t think we’re going to get a fast or abrupt change
in policy,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in Stamford,  Connecticut , on Bloomberg Radio’s
“The Hays Advantage.”  “But clearly the center of gravity, I think, is starting
to slowly but surely shift to a more hawkish bent as the
inflation data start to pick up a little bit,” said Stanley, a
former Fed researcher, using a term for Fed officials who are
more inclined to tighten credit to fight price increases.  In releases since the Fed’s meeting, the Commerce
Department reported that the central bank’s preferred price
measure, which excludes food and fuel, was up 0.9 percent from a
year earlier in February, the most since October. Including all
items, prices rose 1.6 percent, compared with a 1.2 percent 12-
month increase through January, the biggest monthly increase
since December 2009.  ‘Feel Queasy’  “Clearly a number of them are starting to feel queasy
about the prospects for inflation,”  Nariman Behravesh , chief
economist in Lexington, Massachusetts, at research group IHS,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Several FOMC members “indicated, in light of recent
developments, that the risks to their forecasts of inflation had
shifted somewhat to the upside,” according to the minutes.  The Labor Department reported last week the economy added a
greater-than-forecast 216,000 jobs in March, and the
 unemployment rate  fell to 8.8 percent, the lowest in more than
two years. Earlier today, a report showed service industries
expanded less than forecast in March, a sign the biggest part of
the economy is trailing the gains in manufacturing.  Watch Inflation  Bernanke said last night in Stone Mountain, Georgia, that
policy makers must watch inflation “extremely closely” for
evidence that rising commodity costs are having more than a
temporary impact on consumer prices.  At their March meeting, committee members anticipated the
effects of rising commodity prices would be “transitory, in
part because they saw longer-term inflation expectations
remaining stable.”  Last week,  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley
countered suggestions by other policy makers, including
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  and Minneapolis Fed
President  Narayana Kocherlakota , that the central bank may need
to consider raising  interest rates  this year.  Faster-than-expected payroll growth in March shouldn’t
alter the Fed’s plans to buy $600 billion in Treasuries through
June, said Dudley, who serves as FOMC vice chairman.  “I don’t see any reason to pull back from that yet,”
Dudley said to reporters after an April 1 speech in  San Juan ,
 Puerto Rico .  The Fed’s reluctance to tighten credit now contrasts with
some of its counterparts. European Central Bank policy makers
have signaled that they may raise their benchmark interest rate
from a record low of 1 percent when they next meet April 7
because euro-area inflation is breaching the 2 percent limit.  Fourth Time  China  raised borrowing costs today for the fourth time
since the global financial crisis to limit the risk of asset
price bubbles in the world’s fastest-growing major economy. The
benchmark one-year lending rate will increase to 6.31 percent
from 6.06 percent effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank of China
said on its website. The one-year deposit rate will rise to 3.25
percent from 3 percent.  At the meeting,  Brian Sack , the New York Fed’s markets
group chief, gave a presentation on whether to taper the Fed’s
bond purchases and concluded that “the greater depth and
liquidity of the Treasury securities market suggested that it
would not be necessary to taper purchases,” the minutes said.  Four Days After  Fed policy makers met on March 15, just four days after
 Japan  was hit with a 9.0-magnitude earthquake and tsunami that
left more than 27,000 people dead or missing and more than
150,000 others living in evacuation centers.  Fed policy makers thought “the economic implications of
the tragedy in Japan -- for example, with respect to global
supply chains -- were not yet clear,” the minutes said, and
that the disaster in Japan and turmoil in the Middle East “had
further increased uncertainty about the economic outlook.”  The rise in  oil prices  accelerated after armed conflict
broke out in Libya, which was Africa’s third-largest oil
producer. Output there slumped to a “trickle” by March 11,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  The national average price of regular gasoline rose to
$3.55 a gallon on March 15 from $3.07 on January 1. Gasoline
rose further after the Fed’s meeting and was $3.69 yesterday.  ‘Upside Risks’  Policy makers said that the rising prices “posed upside
risks to the stability of longer-term inflation expectations,
and thus to the outlook for inflation, even as they posed
downside risks to the outlook for growth in  consumer spending 
and business investment,” the minutes said.  Improving demand is encouraging some companies to take on
more employees, cushioning earlier cutbacks. General Motors Co.
will recall the last of its laid-off workers by September,
United Auto Workers Vice President Joe Ashton said in March.  Fed staff economists at the meeting gave a forecast for a
“moderate pace” of 2011 and 2012 growth similar to projections
at the last session in January, while lowering their forecast
for the unemployment rate. Even so, “the jobless rate was still
expected to decline slowly and to remain elevated at the end of
2012,” the minutes said.  Staff economists raised their projection for near-term
consumer price inflation while seeing the increase as “mostly
transitory if oil and other commodity prices did not rise
significantly further,” the minutes said. The forecast for
prices in the “medium run” was little changed from January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  