-- 
Fed’s Kocherlakota Calls for Less Government Role in Mortgages

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   M a r y   V a n   B e u s e k o m
-- 
2011-04-05T16:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/fed-s-kocherlakota-calls-for-less-government-role-in-mortgages.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the U.S. government should
reduce its role in housing finance and consider ways to help
people build equity in their homes.  “Heavy reliance on government guarantees is not a sound
long-term strategy,” Kocherlakota said today in remarks
prepared for a mortgage conference at the Minneapolis Fed.  “Our country needs a mortgage market that returns to
greater reliance on private risk-taking and private risk
assessment, along with the enhanced regulatory oversight that is
already in place,” he said.  The  House of Representatives  is considering legislation
that would reduce the dominance of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mae in
U.S. mortgage finance. Legislation from House Republicans would
wind down the companies completely over five years.  Washington-based  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  of McLean,
 Virginia  have been relying on a promise of unlimited government
aid since 2008, when they were taken under conservatorship amid
mounting losses on subprime loans.  Kocherlakota, in his remarks to the Minnesota Emerging
Markets Homeownership Initiative Workshop, didn’t address
proposals to change housing finance.  “Through the mortgage interest tax deduction and other
programs, we are encouraging people to buy homes by taking on
debt -- and sometimes large amounts of debt,” he said.  “If we truly want to encourage home ownership, we should
contemplate programs that provide incentives for individuals to
save and become equity holders in their homes -- and, by
extension, in their communities,” he said.  Kocherlakota, 47, has led the  Minneapolis Fed  since October
2009 and is former chairman of the economics department at the
University of Minnesota.  “The Fed is committed to keeping inflation under control,
which helps make traditional mortgages more affordable,” he
said. He didn’t otherwise comment on the outlook for monetary
policy or the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  