-- 
Ferrari, Yacht Payoffs Alleged As California Foreign-Bribe Trial Begins

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-04-05T18:36:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/ferrari-yacht-payoffs-alleged-as-california-foreign-bribe-trial-begins.html
Two executives at a  California  maker
of power-line equipment went on trial today in Los Angeles,
accused of bribing officials at a Mexican utility with a car and
a boat to win orders.  Lindsey Manufacturing Co. President Keith Lindsey and Chief
Financial Officer Steve Lee are charged with violating the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by using a Mexican intermediary to
pay off the officials, including buying one of them a $1.8
million yacht and a $300,000 Ferrari.  Prosecutors said the closely held Azusa, California-based
company, which is also a defendant, paid Enrique Aguilar, an
independent Mexican sales representative and his company
inflated commissions to cover more than $5 million in bribes and
obtain orders from Comision Federal de Electricidad, a power
company.  “They knew that in order to get business with CFE, they
had to pay bribes,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Douglas Miller said
today in his opening statement in Los Angeles federal court. One
of the Mexican officials could pick up the Ferrari at the
Beverly Hills dealer in 2007 “without signing a single piece of
paper,” Miller said.  Enrique Aguilar’s wife, Angela Aguilar, was arrested last
year in Houston and charged with  money laundering  for setting up
a U.S. brokerage account through which the payments were made.
She is being tried with the Lindsey executives. Her husband was
also charged. A Mexican citizen, he isn’t in the U.S.  Emergency Towers  Lindsey Manufacturing makes emergency towers that are used
to replace permanent electricity towers that are downed or
damaged and the company’s sales in  Mexico  are prompted by
natural disasters such as hurricanes and not by bribery, Jan
Handzlik, a lawyer for the company and its owner, Keith Lindsey,
told jurors in his opening statement.  “The implication that the contracts were riddled with
corruption and stimulated by bribes is belied by the facts,”
Handzlik said. “Major purchases were stimulated by a need for a
vital product.”  Handzlik said that Enrique Aguilar’s business represented
other companies as well, and that Lindsey Manufacturing had no
control over what happened with the fees they paid for his
services, which were comingled with fees he received from his
other clients.  FCPA Case Law  A conviction may prompt the U.S. Justice Department to
charge more people under the FCPA, said Mary Carter Andrues, a
criminal-defense lawyer at Arent Fox LLP in  Los Angeles  and a
former federal prosecutor. “There is not a lot of defined case
law on the meaning of the statute,” Andrues said.  Last year, a Hollywood couple was sentenced to six months
in prison after they were convicted of paying a Thai official
$1.8 million in bribes for a contract to run the Bangkok
International Film Festival. The maximum penalty for an FCPA
violation is five years in prison. Money laundering carries a
maximum 20-year term.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the nation’s largest meat processor,
agreed in February to pay $5.2 million to settle U.S.
allegations that one of its units bribed officials in Mexico to
certify chicken products for export.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  last month agreed to
pay $10 million to settle regulators’ accusations that it gave
cash and gifts to Chinese and South Korean officials in
connection with about $54 million in government contracts. IBM
didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  The case is U.S. v. Aguilar, 10-1031, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  