-- 
Fiat Is Said to Plan Increase in Chrysler Stake to 30% Within Coming Weeks

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-04-05T15:51:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/fiat-is-said-to-plan-increase-in-chrysler-stake-to-30-within-coming-weeks.html
Fiat SpA (F)  aims to raise its Chrysler
Group LLC stake to 30 percent within the next few weeks after it
clears two U.S. government hurdles linked to receiving the
increased holding, two people familiar with the plan said.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  plans to sell
Chrysler models under the Fiat brand in Brazil to reach the
first goal that 90 percent of Fiat’s Latin American dealers
offer Chrysler vehicles, the people said, declining to be
identified because the plans are private.  The plan would allow Marchionne to sidestep negotiations
with dealers on Chrysler contracts and avoid the cost of
introducing the brand in Brazil, where Fiat has the largest
share of the market, one of the people said. Fiat has already
met the second demand of $1.5 billion in revenue outside  North
America  at Chrysler since Fiat took a stake in the Auburn,
Hills, Michigan-based carmaker, one person said.  Fiat, which currently owns 25 percent of Chrysler, will get
an additional 5 percent of the U.S. government’s holding in the
company after the Treasury Department is satisfied that the two
criteria have been met. The increase will help Marchionne, who
runs both carmakers, reach his goal of a 51 percent stake by the
end of 2011. Fiat is getting the first 35 percent without paying
any cash, and must then buy the remaining 16 percent.  Fiat may pay $1.14 billion to exercise its  call option  on
the remaining 16 percent if Marchionne makes the purchase in
2011 and $1.37 billion if he buys it next year, according to
JPMorgan analyst Ranjit Unnithan, who has an “underweight”
rating on the stock. The cost is linked to Chrysler’s earnings.  Shares Gain  Fiat rose 13 cents, or 2 percent, to 6.69 euros in Milan
trading today. The stock is down 0.1 percent this year, valuing
the carmaker at 8.3 billion euros ($11.8 billion).  The Italian carmaker obtained a 20 percent stake in
Chrysler in June 2009 as the U.S. company emerged from
bankruptcy. Fiat agreed to share technology, systems and
management with Chrysler in exchange for an initial 20 percent
holding. It raised the stake to 25 percent in January after
Chrysler received regulatory approval for an engine based on the
Fiat FIRE family for manufacture in U.S.  Chrysler is close to completing a dealership agreement
outside North America, with “ Brazil  ready to start,”
Marchionne said March 30 at Fiat’s annual meeting in Turin,
 Italy , without providing details. A Fiat spokesman declined to
comment today on the carmaker’s Latin American distribution
plans. Treasury spokesman  Mark Paustenbach  declined to comment.  Brazilian Domination  Fiat leads this year in Brazil with a 22.3 percent share of
the car and light truck market through mid-March, according to
data from Brazilian dealers association Fenabrave. Wolfsburg,
Germany-based Volkswagen AG is second with 21.8 percent and
General Motors Co is third with 18.2 percent. Fiat is targeting
fast-growing economies to counter losses in  Europe .  Fiat has 700 dealers in Latin America, with 550 in Brazil,
while Chrysler has just 35 dealerships. The automakers already
plan to build Dodge Journey sport-utility vehicles at a Mexico
factory that will be rebadged as the Fiat Freemont for the
Brazilian market.  Fiat expects to receive another 5 percent stake by the
fourth quarter after meeting a requirement for Chrysler to
assemble a Fiat-derived car in the U.S. that gets 40 miles per
gallon, Marchionne said last week. Fiat has an option to buy the
remaining 16 percent needed to get to 51 percent after repaying
Canadian and U.S. government loans.  Chrysler IPO  A planned Chrysler share sale may be pushed into next year
so that the carmaker is “ready to be a public company again,”
Marchionne said last week. The CEO said in January he expected a
Chrysler IPO in the second half. The sale depends on the need
for more liquidity at Chrysler and the desire of the United Auto
Workers union’s retiree health-care trust to sell part of its
stake, he said.  Marchionne is pushing Chrysler this year to increase global
sales by 32 percent and post its first net income since exiting
bankruptcy reorganization in 2009. The automaker through
February reported a 14 percent gain in global sales.  Marchionne this year shifted Fiat’s truck and tractor units
into a separate company to focus on carmaking and foster more
auto alliances. Fiat’s assets, after the spinoff of Iveco SpA’s
trucks and CNH Global NV’s tractors into Fiat Industrial SpA,
include the Maserati and Ferrari luxury brands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 