-- 
Financial Stability Board Targets Shadow-Bank Regulations

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-04-05T18:53:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/financial-stability-board-backs-plans-to-regulate-shadow-banks.html
Global regulators endorsed plans to
supervise so-called shadow banks to stop companies such as hedge
funds escaping efforts to prevent another financial crisis.  The  Financial Stability Board  agreed “to develop
recommendations to strengthen the regulation and oversight of
the shadow banking system,” by November, the board said in a
statement after it met in Rome today.  Authorities have warned that shadow banks such as
structured investment vehicles, credit hedge funds and money
market mutual funds, could be used to evade attempts by
regulators to clamp down on excessive risk taking in the wake of
the crisis. The shadow-banking system had liabilities of about
$16 trillion in the first quarter of 2010, the  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York  said in a  report  last year.  The FSB will “consider initial draft recommendations” in
July, before a final version is presented to the Group of 20
nations in November, the board said.  The board also warned that low  interest rates  in some
countries may risk fostering financial imbalances.  “There are signs that the low interest rate environment,
which has been necessary to support growth and financial sector
recovery, may be leading investors to search for yield in more
complex non-standard market segments that increase exposure to
liquidity risks,” the FSB said in the statement.  ‘Closer Surveillance’  “Developments in exchange-traded funds, commodities and
high-yield markets are examples that warrant closer surveillance
by regulatory authorities,” the FSB said.  Separately, FSB Chairman  Mario Draghi  said he was
encouraged by the response from Italian banks to his requests
for them to bolster their capital.  Draghi, who is also governor of the Bank of  Italy , said
that he had made public and “repeated” calls for certain
Italian lenders to increase their capital reserves.  “The response to this invitation has been very, very
encouraging,” Draghi told reporters after today’s FSB meeting.
Italian banks are facing a business cycle whose severity
“cannot be underestimated,” he said.  The FSB was founded in 2009. It replaced the  Financial
Stability Forum , a think tank with no formal role that was
created in 1999 after the Asian financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  