-- 
Fishing Group Protests Radioactive Dumping as Tsukiji Market Sales Plummet

-- B y   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-04-05T06:43:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/fishing-group-protests-fukushima-radioactive-dump-as-tokyo-sales-plummet.html
A fishing industry group in
northern  Japan  protested Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s decision to
dump radioactive water into the sea in Fukushima, saying it may
damage their fishery forever.  Tepco, as the utility is known, began releasing water
yesterday off the coast near its Dai-Ichi plant. It plans to
dump 11,500 tons (3 million gallons) containing about 100 times
the regulatory limit of irradiated iodine in an area about 220
kilometers (135 miles) north of Tokyo. The government approved
the measure so that Tepco can drain turbine buildings of water
so radioactive it burned workers two weeks ago.  Fish sales in Japan have slumped since the magnitude-9
earthquake on March 11 triggered a tsunami that knocked out
power at the nuclear plant, leaving its cooling systems unable
to prevent a partial meltdown. Radioactive material has leaked
into the air and sea ever since, forcing the government to ban
milk and fish shipments from Fukushima.  “We lost lots of loved ones, ships, ports, facilities and
on top of that, we are suffering from marine damage caused by
the incident at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant,” Tetsu Nozaki, chairman of the Fukushima
Prefectural Federation of Fisheries Co-operative  Associations ,
said in a letter to Tepco shown to the media today. “We
strongly protest and urge you to stop dumping into the sea.”  Tepco will discharge 10,000 tons of water from its waste
treatment facility and another 1,500 tons accumulated in pits
outside reactors No. 5 and 6, Masateru Araki, a company
spokesman, said yesterday. Filtering radiation from the water
would take too long and its release will help protect equipment
in the buildings housing the reactors, another spokesman said
yesterday.  ‘No Choice’  “There was no choice but to take this step to prevent
(other) highly radioactive water from spreading into the sea,”
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters today. “The
fact that radioactive water is being deliberately dumped into
the sea is very regrettable and one we are very sorry about.”  Radioactive iodine and cesium were found in fish caught
off the coast of Ibaraki, north of Tokyo, the Yomiuri newspaper
reported today, citing the Hiragata Fishermen’s Union in
Ibaraki city, Ibaraki prefecture, just south of the damaged
power plant.  A study detected 4,080 becquerels of iodine-131 and 447
becquerels of cesium per kilogram of sand eels caught on April
1. The levels aren’t harmful for limited consumption, the
newspaper reported, citing Shinichi Suga, a former official at
the  Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute .  ‘Low-Level Waste’  Releasing the water will help Tepco retain more harmful
materials at the station, said Brendan Kennedy, a member of the
Australian Institute of Nuclear Science and Engineering Inc.
and a professor of chemistry at the  University of Sydney .  “I don’t think this dumping of the low-level waste is any
great environmental problem,” Kennedy said on Bloomberg
Television. “What they’ve got to not dump is more heavily
radiated waste material,” he said.  Radioactive iodine in seawater near the plant was 630
times the regulatory limit on April 3, Tepco said in a
statement. The sample was taken 330 meters south of where the
water was discharged. The company released the information
being ordered by Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency
to reevaluate radiation data after previously publishing errors.  Tsukiji Fish Market  Concerns about radioactive fish have caused sales to drop,
even after the government ordered a stop to fishing off the
coast of Fukushima. At the  Tsukiji fish market  in central Tokyo,
sales of fresh fish fell to an average 583 metric tons per day
in the week ended March 17, 28 percent lower from a year
earlier. Sales dropped by 44 percent in the week to March 24.
Total trading volumes fell by 25 percent and 23 percent,
according to official data.  “Restaurants are losing customers and the demand for fish
is falling,” Kosaka Tsutomu, head of marine and agricultural
products section at Tsukiji, said in an interview at the market
last week. “Consumers are reluctant to buy fish after the
earthquake due to harmful rumors about contamination, and
damage to the distribution system has also disrupted
supplies.”  Sushi restaurants and hotels, including Shangri-La  Asia ’s
luxury chain, dropped Japanese seafood from their menus because
of radiation fears. Global fishing companies such as  Hong
Kong ’s Pacific Andes International Holdings Ltd. could benefit
from increased demand to replace Japanese produce. Japan
exported 565,295 metric tons of fish and other marine products
worth 195 billion yen ($2.3 billion) last year.  Japanese Food Imports  Nations from  Australia  to the U.S. have limited Japanese
food imports. Singapore banned seafood imports from Fukushima,
Ibaraki, Tochigi and Gunma while allowing shipments from other
Japanese prefectures.  “Our exports will decrease as countries stop importing
from Japan,” Hiroyuki Motoki, a manager at  Maruha Nichiro
Holdings Inc. (1334) , Japan’s largest seafood company, said in an
interview. Still, Japan’s fishing industry isn’t dependent on
exports and a larger problem is the damage to infrastructure
that is hindering shipments of salmon, saury and abalone from
quake-hit areas in the northeast, he said.  The number of dead and missing following the earthquake
and tsunami reached 27,688 as of 10 a.m. local time today,
according to the  National Police Agency  in Tokyo.  In Kesennuma, about 150 kilometers north of the nuclear
plant, local fishermen who lost houses, boats, wharfs and
processing facilities in the tsunami are seeing sales hit
further by radiation fears. Miyagi prefecture, where the city
is located, is Japan’s second-largest breeder of oysters after
Hiroshima in the southwest part of the country.  “Radiation is not a concern at all,” said Katsutoshi
Mori, president of the  World Oyster Society  as well as of the
Japan Oyster Research Institute, whose laboratory in Kesennuma
was destroyed. “I’m more worried about groundless fears of
radiation that would deter buyers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 