-- 
Floating Houses Pose Bigger Test for Ships Than Japan Radiation

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-04-05T05:33:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/floating-houses-pose-bigger-test-for-us-navy-ships-than-japan-radiation.html
Houses, cars and tractor-trailers
washed out to sea by a  28-foot  tsunami are clogging shipping
lanes off  Japan , posing a bigger challenge to U.S. Navy vessels
and commercial lines than radiation from a leaking nuclear plant.  The magnitude-9 earthquake that struck off the northeast
coast March 11 launched a wall of seawater that obliterated
cities and towns, and left more than 27,600 people dead or
missing. More than 206,000 buildings were destroyed, damaged or
swept away, the  National Police Agency   said  today.  The debris has prompted Japan’s coast guard to warn ships
to stay about  60 nautical miles  (110 kilometers) away from Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s crippled nuclear-power plant in Fukushima
prefecture, north of the capital. That’s almost four times as
far as the 30-kilometer exclusion zone introduced by the
government because of concerns about radiation.  “Our forces have seen everything from cars to tractor-
trailers to entire, intact homes floating in the ocean,” said
Anthony J. Falvo, a spokesman for the U.S. Seventh Fleet, which
is helping with recovery efforts. “They have never seen
anything like it.”  The Navy said radiation from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant can be scrubbed off vessels with soap and water.  ‘Loads of Objects’  Japan’s coast guard posts daily reports about the debris on
the  Internet , using information gathered from passing vessels.
As of April 4, it was recommending that vessels stay up to 90
nautical miles out while passing the zone that suffered the
brunt of the destruction from the natural disasters -- a 240
nautical-mile stretch from Ibaraki prefecture near  Tokyo  to
Miyagi prefecture in the northeast.  The tsunami was at least 8.5 meters high, the  Japan
Meteorological Agency  said. Water in some towns rose to as high
as 37.9 meters, Jiji Press reported, citing measurements by
Yoshinobu Tsuji of the  University of Tokyo .  “Usually, there’s only the odd piece of debris,” said
Hidefumi Akagi, who is responsible for advising shipping lines
on sea routes for Japan’s coast guard. “Currently, we’re
getting reports of loads of floating objects.”  Transport Minister Akihiro Ohata said he saw tapes of the
floating rubble while meeting with U.S. officials last weekend.  “We have to figure out some way to stop the spread of the
debris,” Ohata said today.  ‘Abnormal’ Radiation  The USS  Ronald Reagan , which has been delivering food and
water to survivors and rescuers in the stricken regions, is
keeping farther away from Fukushima than the Japanese
government’s 30-kilometer exclusion zone. Some ships have been
staying 100 nautical miles out from Fukushima, an area larger
than the debris area.  “We’ve surveyed large at-sea debris fields on the
surface,” Falvo said. “We’ve also employed side-scan sonar
options for under the water.”  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., which operates the world’s
largest merchant fleet with 889 ships as of Oct. 31, is avoiding
the debris area, according to an e-mailed statement from the
company.  The tsunami crippled the Tokyo Electric nuclear-power
station, which is leaking radioactive water into the sea. A
Mitsui O.S.K. vessel was refused permission to offload in  China 
after “abnormal” radiation levels were found.  Nippon Yusen  It resumed operations after the shipping line said an
independent check showed the level was “significantly lower”
than the Chinese reading.  Nippon Yusen K.K.,  Asia ’s largest shipping line by sales,
also said its  container ships  are taking wider berths around the
northeastern region. The  Japan Shipowners’ Association  monitors
the coast guard website daily, said Hatsuho Tanaka, who runs the
general affairs division.  “It is a big stumbling block for the ships,” Tanaka said.
“Based on this information, ocean-going ships are avoiding the
debris.”  Floating debris can damage ship propellers, which can take
a week to replace and at a cost of several million yen, said
Shuketsu Mizukami, a general manager for the spare-parts supply
department at MHI Marine Engineering Ltd. in Nagoya.  ‘Scratched or Dented’  “Damage can unbalance the propeller and cause undue
vibrations,” Mizukami said. “We have several cases a year
where we have to replace the whole propeller.”  Japanese ports handle about 4 percent of the world’s
containers, and, prior to the quake, 18 percent of the cargo-box
ship fleet by capacity was due to call in the country, according
to data from the research unit of Clarkson Plc, the biggest
shipbroker.  Nippon Yusen said its car shipments have slumped since the
earthquake, which shut down factories operated by Toyota Motor
Corp., Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co.  The Tokyo-based company, which predicted sales of 1.93
trillion yen ($23 billion) for the year ended last month, had a
fleet of 820 vessels on March 31, according to estimates from
the shipping line.  Nippon Yusen vessels have altered course around the debris
field and have not encountered any trouble so far, said Jun
Katayama, a spokesman.  “We want to avoid our ships being scratched or dented from
debris,” Katayama said. “We’re paying close attention to
Japan’s coast guard.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  