-- 
Gbagbo Negotiates Exit as Ivory Coast Forces Loyal to Ouattara Victorious

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x ,   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 
2011-04-05T19:19:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/france-un-attack-gbagbo-forces-as-ouattara-troops-ready-battle.html
Forces loyal to  Ivory Coast ’s
Laurent Gbagbo surrendered and the former president began to
negotiate his exit from power with the  United Nations , a day
after French and UN forces bombed his last strongholds in the
commercial capital, Abidjan.  Gbagbo was bunkered in a basement with his family and ready
to surrender, Choi Young-jin, the head of the UN’s mission in
the West African nation, said in an interview on  Al Jazeera 
today. Earlier, troops backing rival  Alassane Ouattara  captured
most of Abidjan.  Talks on Gbagbo’s surrender were still taking place late
today, said UN spokesman Hamadoun Toure. “The discussions
between the two Ivorian parties are still ongoing, and we are
serving as facilitator,” he said by phone. “It’s not up to us to
say what he should do. If he wants to come to the UN, he is
welcome. If he wants our protection, we will protect him.”  Phillippe Mangou, the chief of staff of the army, Bruno
Dogbo Ble, the head of Gbagbo’s Republican Guard, and General
Thiape Kassarate Edouard, commander of the military policy, all
told the UN today that they will stop fighting, Toure said
earlier.  “The war is over,” Alcide Djedje, Gbagbo’s foreign
minister, told France24, adding that he was sent to the French
Embassy in Abidjan to negotiate. “When the heavy artillery and
the ammunitions depots have been destroyed, the security forces
can’t continue to fight very long.”  Give Protection  The UN ordered peacekeepers in the country to receive
weapons from forces loyal to Gbagbo and give them protection,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Ivory Coast , the world’s largest cocoa producer, has been
locked in a political stalemate since an election on Nov. 28
that both Gbagbo, 65, and Ouattara, 69, claim to have won. While
the UN, the U.S., the  African Union  and the European Union
recognize Ouattara as the winner, Gbagbo has alleged voter fraud
and refused to relinquish power.  Cocoa fell for the first day in three, declining $45, or
1.5 percent, to $2,975 per metric ton by 3:10 p.m. in  New York .  Sustained machine-gun and artillery shelling were heard in
the area near Gbagbo’s residence in the Cocody neighborhood of
Abidjan at around 4 p.m. local time.  Late yesterday, the residence, along with the presidential
palace and two army bases were targeted by French and UN
helicopters in a bid to put Gbagbo’s heavy weapons out of
action.  Respect Rights  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he strongly supports the
role of the UN peacekeepers and French troops who are protecting
civilians. “All parties must show restraint and respect for the
rights of the Ivorian people,” Obama said.  The French helicopter attack yesterday was a “decisive”
blow to Gbagbo’s forces, destroying rocket launchers and armored
vehicles, said Rinaldo Depagne, a Dakar-based analyst for
 International Crisis Group , in a phone interview today. “The
French were very concerned about their 11,000 citizens in
Abidjan and also the looming humanitarian crisis,” he said.  Gbagbo has been discussing his exit with Mauritania’s
president, Mohamed Ould Abelaziz, who is the head of an African
Union panel of regional leaders that were meant to find a
resolution to the conflict, said  Ramtane Lamamra , the union’s
peace and security commissioner.  The crisis had pushed up the price of cocoa as much as 33
percent over the past four months and caused the country to
default on $2.3 billion of Eurobonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax and Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 