-- 
Freeport CEO ‘Very Confident’ on China Copper as Rates Rise

-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 
2011-04-05T23:07:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/freeport-very-confident-about-china-s-long-term-copper-demand.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,
the world’s largest publicly traded copper producer, said it’s
confident Chinese copper demand will continue to gain even as
the nation raises  interest rates  to cool inflation.  “China has done a remarkably good job of managing the
extraordinary growth that they have,” Freeport Chief Executive
Officer Richard Adkerson said today in an interview in Santiago.
“In the long run we are very confident about the outlook for
copper demand in China.”  The People’s Bank of China yesterday boosted its benchmark
one-year lending rate by a quarter point to 6.31 percent.
Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government acted ahead of a report forecast
to show consumer prices climbed 5.2 percent last month from a
year before, the fastest pace since 2008.  China  will account for half of the world’s copper demand by
2020, John MacKenzie, head of Anglo American Plc’s copper
business, said in a presentation in Santiago today. There will
be a “huge” increase in infrastructure spending in emerging
countries, he said. The Asian nation is the world’s largest
copper consumer and metal demand is surging as the nation seeks
to build more homes, autos and appliances and upgrade power-grid
networks as swathes of rural population move to its cities.  ‘Not Left Behind’  “The government is focusing enormously on making sure that
the vast rural population and those that are not among the new
wealthy middle class are not left behind,” Michael Lion, the
head of the Asian unit of New York-based Sims Metal Management
Ltd., the world’s largest metals recycler, said today at a
conference in Santiago. “The greatest focus for achieving that
will undoubtedly be provisions such as electricity. That,
ironically, may provide a fairly consistent demand for copper.”  The Chinese premier last month described inflation as “a
tiger” that once set free will be difficult to cage, and also
as a potential threat to social stability. Consumer prices
jumped 4.9 percent in February from a year earlier, topping the
government’s full-year target of 4 percent.  China’s industries are still growing 10 percent a year,
while U.S. and European copper demand is also recovering,
according to Adkerson.  “The business community in the U.S. is more optimistic
than it was a year ago,” he said, adding that “It’s not a
marked, or steep recovery.”  ‘Still Lagging’  U.S. copper demand for construction in commercial or
residential real estate are “segments that are still lagging,”
he said.  Freeport rose 76 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $56.53 as of
2:48 p.m. in  New York . The stock fell about 4.6 percent this
year, compared with a 6.1 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index of which it’s a member.  Codelco, the world’s largest copper producer, predicted
prices will average $4 a pound this year as China continues to
demand more of the metal and on restrictions in mine supply,
Chief Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  said in an interview.  Increasing rates may signal the government’s confidence in
the strength of an economy forecast by the  World Bank  to expand
9 percent this year.  A purchasing managers’ index released
April 1 indicated that the world’s second-biggest economy is
“growing smoothly, with a very moderate slowdown,” Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch economist Lu Ting said that day.  Chinese demand may recover to grow 6 percent this year,
Charlie Sartain, who runs Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata Plc’s
copper business, said in an interview in Santiago yesterday.
Demand is also recovering in  Europe  and the U.S., he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts in  Buenos Aires  at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  