-- 
Freeport, Xstrata Position for Takeovers on Chinese Demand

-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 
2011-04-06T19:47:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/freeport-xstrata-position-for-takeovers-as-china-drives-demand.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,
the world’s largest publicly traded copper producer, and rival
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  are positioning for potential takeovers as Chinese
metals demand increases and financing conditions improve.  Phoenix-based Freeport could fund a bigger deal than its
$26 billion takeover of Phelps Dodge Corp. in 2007 and would
only be interested in a “large” acquisition, Chief Executive
Officer Richard Adkerson said yesterday in an interview. Charlie Sartain, head of Xstrata’s copper unit, said April 4 the company
is “determined to be prepared” for deals that could add value.  Mining takeovers are accelerating as companies struggle to
replace aging deposits and China’s industrial growth stokes
metals demand in construction and appliances. Announced deals
rose about 58 percent to $18.6 billion in the first quarter from
a year earlier, Bloomberg data show.  China  may account for half
global copper demand by 2020, according to Anglo American Plc.  “If the opportunity came to us to do a large transaction
we could execute on it,” Adkerson said, adding that the
company’s focus is on internal expansion. “If an opportunity
came to us, and my sense it would be a larger rather than a
smaller deal, we’re positioned to take advantage of that.”  Prices Rise  Freeport fell 42 centavos, or 0.7 percent, to $56.19 at
3:45 p.m. in New York after earlier gaining as much as 2.9
percent. Xstrata dropped 3 pence to 1,497.5 pence in London
trading. Copper futures for May delivery gained 2.5 percent to
$4.37 on the Comex in  New York , after earlier gaining as much as
2.7 percent.  Company bond yields halved to a low of 3.84 percent on
March 16 from a high of 7.81 percent on Oct. 30, 2008, according
to Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.  A measure of combined earnings per share across the 126-
member Bloomberg World Mining Index is forecast to rise 42
percent this year, compared with anticipated growth of 14
percent across the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg using analysts’ forecasts.  “In parallel to the organic growth we are looking at the
M&A aspect, which is not as predictable but nevertheless
presents us with some opportunities,” Sartain said in an
interview. “We’re from a company that started from M&A and has
M&A as part of its way of doing things so we’ll always be alert
to acquisition opportunities.”  Minmetals Bid  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) , a unit of China’s biggest metals
trader, on April 4 offered to buy Australian copper company
Equinox Minerals Ltd for C$6.3 billion ($6.5 billion) in an
unsolicited cash offer. The deal, which would be China’s biggest
minerals takeover, would give Hong Kong-based Minmetals Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Michelmore control of the Lumwana
copper mine in  Zambia  and  Saudi Arabia ’s biggest copper deposit.  Adkerson said the company would be most interested in a
large deal because smaller transactions represent many of the
same worker safety and environmental issues without contributing
“to the valuation of the company in a major way,” he said.  China, the world’s largest copper consumer, will need more
copper as it seeks to build more homes, autos and appliances as
swathes of its rural population move to the cities. A series of
interest-rate rises intended to cool inflation is unlikely to
change the trend of rising Chinese copper demand, Adkerson said.  Freeport’s market capitalization rose to more than $50
billion from about $12 billion when it completed the purchase of
Phoenix-based rival Phelps Dodge in 2007, giving it mines in the
U.S. and the Tenke project in the Congo.  ‘Enormous Projects’  The company is focused on developing its “enormous
internal projects,” Adkerson said, and can increase production
by 500 million pounds through restarting and optimizing mines.
It’s also developing a new mine in the Democratic Republic of
Congo, besides expansions in Chile and  Peru , he said.  Xstrata Chief Executive Officer Mick Davis has announced
five acquisitions of stakes in other companies and projects in
the past year, including a $516 million purchase of Sphere
Minerals Ltd., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s $18 billion acquisition of Canadian miner
Falconbridge Ltd. in 2006 gave Xstrata a stake in Chilean copper
mine Collahuasi, the world’s third-largest.  The company is investing $7 billion in expansions and new
mines that it plans to start up by the end of 2014 to become the
world’s largest producer of copper concentrate, Sartain said.  ‘Quite Difficult’  While “it’s quite difficult to see value-accretive
acquisitions on current valuations,” Xstrata sees opportunities
emerging in smaller companies that are developing projects,
Sartain said.  “There will definitely be some opportunities there to
acquire either the projects, which are entering this critical
changeover point where the junior companies don’t really want to
continue with the development, or companies that are at a
certain size,” he said.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd., the Canadian mining company
that bought the Haquira copper project in Peru last year, said
it’s interested in acquiring another project in the world’s
third-largest copper-producing nation.  Company President  Clive Newall  is seeking growth
opportunities in the South American country as global supply
“tightness” supports high copper prices, he said today in an
interview in Santiago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts in  Buenos Aires  at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  