-- 
GDF Suez, EDF Shares Drop as France Freezes Natural Gas Prices, Caps Power

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-04-05T10:56:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/gdf-suez-edf-shares-drop-as-france-freezes-natural-gas-prices-caps-power.html
GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA and Electricite de
France SA fell after French Prime Minister Francois Fillon said
natural  gas prices  won’t be lifted July 1 and the government
will seek to limit an increase in regulated power prices.  GDF Suez SA, the former gas monopoly, lost as much as 3.4
percent and was at 27.36 euros as of 12:12 p.m. in Paris. EDF
dropped as much as 3.8 percent and last traded at 28.575 euros.  “It’s pretty awful for GDF Suez,” Per Lekander, an
analyst at UBS AG, said by telephone, adding that the utility
was supposed to raise regulated rates in July.  Fillon also announced in a statement today the rise in
regulated power prices for households will be capped at 2.9
percent through June 30, 2012 and oil companies will make a
“special contribution” toward tax breaks for drivers. The size
of the oil payment wasn’t specified.  The French government, facing an election next year, has
been under pressure to rein in energy costs after raising
regulated rates for natural gas for consumers by an average of
4.9 percent on April 1. Parliament also voted to increase a tax
for renewable electricity on power bills at the start of the
year while the price of gasoline at French pumps has increased
in line with higher  oil prices .  Spot Prices  “Gas won’t move,” Budget Minister Francois Baroin said on
France 2 television, referring to natural gas prices. “The
government has decided to freeze the rise in gas at least for
the year to come.”  The government plans to revise the method of calculating
state-set natural gas rates for consumers to take into account
lower spot prices, according to the statement from Fillon. GDF
Suez will have its government contract reviewed so households
can benefit when “spot market prices are lastingly lower than
through long-term contracts.”  France won’t give drivers “checks to soften” the increase
in gasoline prices and won’t lower sales taxes on fuel at French
pumps, Baroin said.  Fillon also said a planned increase in the so-called CSPE
tax on electricity bills on January 1 will be spread over a
longer period, capping a regulated power rate increase for
households to 2.9 percent until June 30, 2012. This includes a
1.7 percent rise in all regulated rates from July 1, 2011 for
higher costs of power transport and distribution and two 1.2
percent increases in household power bills for the CSPE, one
July 1, 2011 and another July 1, 2012.  Shortfall  The CSPE tax is designed to compensate EDF for the higher
costs of renewable energy and for providing services to remote
regions. The utility has recorded a shortfall in recent years
because the tax hasn’t kept pace with costs.  “The statement does not tell us what is going to happen to
industrial and commercial energy prices,” said Lekander, who
was expecting a 4 percent increase in retail tariffs in the
middle of August and so will lower earnings expectations for
EDF.  Fillon didn’t specify any changes in electricity pricing in
a planned overhaul of the wholesale power market in  France  that
will force EDF to sell nuclear output to rivals. The government
has yet to specify the regulated price, which consumer groups
and competitors have warned could lead to higher household
rates. The changes are due to take effect from July 1.  EDF, GDF Suez and Total SA will also be asked to contribute
250 million euros ($355 million) to a 1.35 billion-euro program
to help 300,000 low-income households save energy through home
renovations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  