-- 
Geithner Says Failure to Raise Debt Limit Would Trigger a Financial Crisis

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-04-05T15:50:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/geithner-says-failure-to-raise-debt-limit-risks-causing-severe-hardship-.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  said the U.S. would face a crisis worse than the one it
just experienced if Congress fails to raise the debt limit
promptly.  “You will shake the basic foundations of the entire global
financial system,” Geithner told a Senate subcommittee today.
“I’m totally confident that Congress will act to avoid that.”
It would be “inconceivable” that lawmakers will not act in
time, he said.  The Treasury chief appeared before a Senate Appropriations
Committee panel as House and Senate negotiators, joined by the
White House, are considering plans to reduce the budget by about
$33 billion. Lawmakers have passed $10 billion in cuts so far
for the fiscal year.  Geithner told Congress yesterday that the $14.29 trillion
debt limit is projected to be breached no later than May 16,
with Treasury having emergency measures to gain an additional
eight weeks of borrowing room after that. If Congress does not
raise the limit in time, the U.S. would need to cut critical
payments and would see a surge in  interest rates , Geithner said
today.  “The consequences of that would be catastrophic to the
 United States ,” Geithner said. “It would make the crisis we
went through look modest in comparison.”  If the debt limit is not raised, “unemployment would rise
dramatically, thousands if not hundreds of thousands of
businesses would fail, and of course you would shake the
confidence of the world in U.S. financial assets and
Treasuries,” Geithner said.  Government Shutdown  The Treasury chief also urged lawmakers to avoid a
government shutdown, which could happen if Congress does not
this week pass spending authority for the current fiscal year.
He said that the economy would suffer if government funding is
uncertain from week to week.  “You will risk undermining the recovery now underway,”
Geithner said. He said business confidence would weaken and the
labor market would take longer to recover.  The housing market continues to struggle and “it is going
to take several more years, under the best of circumstances” to
heal, Geithner said. He said mortgage servicers have done “a
really terrible job” of helping struggling homeowners and said
the administration would continue to press for improvements.  Geithner reiterated his support for longer-term budget
changes to rein in deficits. For now, investors have “enormous
confidence” in the U.S., and the country needs to make tax and
spending changes over time that will support the economy and
preserve that confidence, he said.  IRS Operations  The Treasury Department has made budget cuts in some areas
to support expansion in others, Geithner said, citing a plan to
eliminate one third of its data centers by 2015 and a staffing
reduction of 20 percent at the Bureau of Public Debt over the
past five years. He urged lawmakers not to trim the  Internal
Revenue Service  or other essential operations.  “Any substantial cut to the IRS budget will hurt revenue
collection and service to taxpayers,” Geithner said. “Cuts to
the remaining Treasury responsibilities would weaken our ability
to support reforms that are critical to economic recovery and
repair of the financial system.”  Geithner said the Obama administration would press ahead
with its efforts to overhaul housing finance and wind down
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . The two government-backed mortgage
companies have been in conservatorship since 2008 and have
received more than $150 billion in government support.  Foreclosure Prevention  He also defended the Obama administration’s foreclosure-
prevention plans, including the Home Affordable Modification
Program.  HAMP has helped more than 630,000 families stay in their
homes and “driven industry improvements that have resulted in 2
million additional modifications outside the program,” Geithner
said.  The  House of Representatives  voted 252-170 on March 29 to
eliminate HAMP, which pays banks and mortgage servicers to
modify monthly payments for delinquent borrowers. The program is
President Barack Obama’s signature effort to aid struggling
homeowners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  