-- 
Geithner Reiterates Support for Foreclosure-Prevention Program

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-05T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/geithner-reiterates-support-for-foreclosure-prevention-program.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  reiterated his defense of Obama administration
foreclosure-prevention plans, including the Home Affordable
Modification Program.  HAMP has helped more than 630,000 families stay in their
homes and “driven industry improvements that have resulted in 2
million additional modifications outside the program,” Geithner
said in testimony prepared for a hearing today before a Senate
Appropriations Committee panel.  The House of Representatives voted 252-170 on March 29 to
eliminate HAMP, which pays banks and mortgage servicers to
modify monthly payments for delinquent borrowers. The program is
President Barack Obama’s signature effort to aid struggling
homeowners.  Geithner said the Obama administration would press ahead
with its efforts to overhaul housing finance and wind down
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . The two government-backed mortgage
companies have been in conservatorship since 2008 and have
received more than $150 billion in government support.  The Treasury Department has made budget cuts in some areas
to support expansion in others, Geithner said, citing a plan to
eliminate one third of its data centers by 2015 and a staffing
reduction of 20 percent at the Bureau of Public Debt over the
past five years. He urged lawmakers not to trim the  Internal
Revenue Service  or other essential operations.  “Any substantial cut to the IRS budget will hurt revenue
collection and service to taxpayers,” Geithner said. “Cuts to
the remaining Treasury responsibilities would weaken our ability
to support reforms that are critical to economic recovery and
repair of the financial system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  