-- 
Geithner Sees ‘Severe Hardships’ If Debt Limit Isn’t Raised

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-04-05T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/geithner-sees-severe-hardships-if-debt-limit-isn-t-raised.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told lawmakers that a failure to raise the debt limit
would bring “severe hardship” for Americans as the government
is forced to suspend services such as Social Security payments.  Geithner, in a letter to members of Congress, said the U.S.
will reach the $14.29 trillion limit on its ability to borrow no
later than May 16 if Congress doesn’t act. Republican lawmakers,
including Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida , have been resisting a
debt-limit increase while calling for extensive budget cuts.  “The longer Congress fails to act, the more we risk that
investors here and around the world will lose confidence in our
ability to meet our commitments and our obligations,” Geithner
said yesterday in a letter addressed to Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid .  Geithner’s warning came as lawmakers debated budget
legislation needed to avert a government shutdown on April 8,
when existing spending authority expires. While the Treasury can
continue to sell debt during a shutdown caused by lack of
spending authority, it has no such leeway if it runs out of
borrowing room.  The debt-limit fight will be shaped by how voters and
markets react to the debate over the extension of spending
authority, said Stanley Collender, managing director of Qorvis
Communications and a former congressional budget analyst.  “If there’s a shutdown and Republicans take it on the chin
politically, their appetite for holding the debt ceiling hostage
may go down,” Collender said in a telephone interview. “If
Democrats take it on the chin or the White House, their appetite
for holding the debt ceiling hostage may go up.”  Treasury Auctions  The Treasury will conduct its regular schedule of
securities auctions in the event of a government shutdown, an
official told Bloomberg News yesterday.  House and Senate negotiators, joined by the White House,
are considering plans to reduce the budget by about $33 billion.
Lawmakers have passed $10 billion in cuts so far for the fiscal
year.  “The government usually has some wiggle room here as a
shutdown will likely result first in a temporary suspension of
non-essential government services,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New
York .  By contrast, the government will have little leeway if the
debt ceiling isn’t raised by May 16. In that case, the Treasury
will turn to a toolkit of emergency measures that can provide as
many as eight weeks of additional borrowing room, Geithner said.
That extra time would end about July 8, the Treasury chief said.  Vital Services  Congress needs to raise the limit to maintain vital
services and avoid “questions about our ability to defend our
national security interests,” Geithner said. The U.S. would
face sharply higher  interest rates  and would have to stop or
delay payments to the military, retirees and others, he said.  “Default would cause a financial crisis potentially more
severe than the crisis from which we are only now starting to
recover,” Geithner said. “For these reasons, default by the
 United States  is unthinkable.”  Six-month bill rates declined to a record low yesterday as
investors sought the safe haven of short-term government debt.
The rate dropped as much as three basis points, or 0.03 percent,
to 0.1099 percent in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The prior record low of 0.1109 percent was set in
November 2009.  Treasury also auctioned three- and six-month
bills yesterday at the lowest rates since January 2010.  Tax, Spending  Newly elected Republican lawmakers have been resisting a
debt-limit increase while calling for extensive budget cuts.
Florida’s Rubio has said he won’t approve a debt-limit increase
without a range of tax-and-spending reforms.  “We need to use the debt limit itself as the way to ensure
that America’s debt limit begins to decline, not always go up,”
Rubio said in a March 29 television interview with Fox News.  Geithner said in his letter that spending cuts can’t
provide the cash needed now, and he warned that the Treasury’s
projections won’t change in a way that would give Congress extra
time. He also said it would not be “viable” for the U.S. to
sell gold, financial investments or  student loans .  Increasing the limit “does not increase the obligations we
have as a nation; it simply permits the Treasury to fund those
obligations that Congress has already established,” Geithner
said. “There is no alternative to enactment of an increase in
the debt limit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in  Washington  at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net 
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  