-- 
Portuguese Government Bonds Decline for 11th Day After Moody’s Cuts Rating

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-04-05T16:09:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/german-10-year-bund-yield-close-to-15-month-high-on-ecb-interest-rate-bets.html
Portugal ’s 10-year government bonds
dropped for the 11th consecutive day after Moody’s Investors
Service lowered the nation’s credit rating for the second time
in three weeks amid expectations it will need a bailout.  Irish bonds advanced for a third day, narrowing the yield
difference to Portuguese securities. German 10-year government
bond yields were within three basis points of the highest in
almost 15 months on bets the  European Central Bank  will raise
 interest rates  this week. A gauge of euro-area services gained
more than initially estimated and a separate report today showed
retail sales shrank 0.1 percent in February.  “We have seen all these downgrades taking place, which
were very aggressive,” said  Ioannis Sokos , a fixed-income
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. Portuguese “yields
remain very high and there is no reason to see them lower before
a government is formed and new fiscal measures are agreed.”  Portuguese 10-year government yields gained 17 basis points
to 8.76 percent as of 4:43 p.m. in London, after reaching a
record 8.80 percent. The securities’ 11-day drop is the longest
run since the 16 days through Dec. 27. The 3.85 percent security
due April 2021 fell 0.88, or 8.80 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,421)
face amount, to 68.09. The two-year note yield rose 33 basis
points to 9.15 percent.  Moody’s lowered Portugal’s long-term government bond rating
by one level to Baa1 from A3, and said it may reduce the ranking
further. The move puts the country at the same level as Russia,
Mexico and  Thailand .  Ireland ‘Steps Ahead’  Portugal, which will hold elections in June after Prime
Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned last month, will probably be
able to finance a debt redemption due this month, Sokos said. It
may need to seek a “bridge loan” from external sources when
more securities come due in June because it won’t be able to
request official aid until a government is formed, he said.  Portuguese banks decided at a meeting with the Bank of
Portugal yesterday that they won’t buy more government bonds in
the next few months, Jornal de Negocios reported, without saying
how it obtained the information. The nation plans to sell as
much as 1 billion euros of government bills due in October and
March tomorrow. The European Commission said it isn’t in
discussions with Portugal over a possible bridge loan, denying a
report today in Publico newspaper.  Record Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Portuguese
 government bonds  instead of their German counterparts reached a
record 544 basis points.  Irish 10-year bond yields fell 13 basis points to 9.68
percent, the lowest since March 22. The yield spread to
benchmark German bunds narrowed to 629 basis points.  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the country’s rating to BBB+ from A- on April 1 and
left it with a stable outlook.  “Ireland is a couple of steps ahead compared to
Portugal,” Sokos said. “The stable outlook assigned by
Standard & Poor’s is a very strong signal, and there seems to be
a floor, at least,” for Irish government bonds, he said.  Portugal surpassed Ireland as a  default risk  for the first
time in seven months today as investors bet the Iberian nation
will also have to request a bailout as the cost of insuring
Irish and Portuguese debt using credit-default swaps crossed.  Growth in  Europe ’s services and manufacturing industries
accelerated more than initially estimated in March, led by
 Germany  and  France . A composite index based on a survey of
purchasing managers in the 17-nation euro region was 57.6 from
58.2 in February, London-based Markit Economics said. That
compares to a 57.5 initial estimate.  ECB Meeting  Germany’s 10-year yield rose two basis points to 3.39
percent, after reaching 3.41 percent on April 1, the highest
since Jan. 8, 2010. Yields on two-year notes increased three
basis points to 1.84 percent.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on March 3 that
policy makers may raise the main refinancing rate from a record
low of 1 percent at their April 7 meeting.  “Fundamentals are taking a back seat and people are
waiting for what the ECB will deliver,” said Marius Daheim, a
senior fixed-income strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in
Munich. “The main thing is whether the central bank will signal
this rate hike is a one-off, or whether they will go further.”  Austria sold 880 million euros of debt maturing February
2017 at an average yield of 3.21 percent and 770 million euros
of debt dated April 2022 at 3.812 percent in an auction today,
the Austrian Federal Financing Agency said.  As well as Portugal’s bill sale,  Finland  is scheduled to
auction bonds maturing in 2025 and 2016 tomorrow, while Germany
plans to sell as much as 5 billion euros of two-year notes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  