-- 
Glenlivet Ambassador Teethed on Wee Dram, Sports Tartan Kilts

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 
2011-04-05T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/glenlivet-ambassador-teethed-on-wee-dram-sports-tartan-kilts.html
Ricky Crawford, 41, had his first
taste of whisky on a pacifier in  Paisley, Scotland , and now he
gets to drink it anytime he wants.  As national brand ambassador for The Glenlivet, he travels
all over the U.S. to convert people to the proper techniques for
drinking the ‘water of life’ from  Speyside  and to create other
brand ambassadors, one taste at a time.  As part of  New York Tartan Week , a celebration of all
things Scottish, Crawford can be seen at tonight’s  Whisky Live 
in one of his four  Glenlivet tartan  kilts. I talked with him at
Bloomberg world headquarters in  Manhattan .  Smith: What is a brand ambassador?  Crawford: On the consumer side, it’s really my job to
create ambassadors for Glenlivet. I want people to walk away
after they’ve talked to me and say “Glenlivet is my whisky.” I
really have a passion for it. So, if I can get a few people to
feel that way after I’ve talked to them, I’ve done my job.  Smith: I understand you’re just back from the Playboy
Mansion.  Crawford: Yes, a big golf tournament and party event at the
Playboy Mansion in  Los Angeles . Obviously, for our consumers, a
very interesting event. I’ve also done tastings for the  Blue
Angels  -- the guys that fly stunts -- after they’ve done their
flying. Very well-behaved young men.  Smith: Speaking of responsible drinking, when do you drink?  ‘My Day Is Filled’  Crawford: Typically I try not to wake up in the morning and
start off with a whisky. However, there are some occasions where
my day is filled. I may start off doing some tastings for the
industry guys at 9 a.m. I might have a staff training at
lunchtime at a restaurant. And then that afternoon, maybe see
some other accounts.  In the evening, finish with a seminar or tasting. The trick
is to look like you are tasting. If I was tasting whisky every
time I was doing a tasting I’d be on my fourth liver by now.  Smith: When did you take your first drink?  Crawford: My first taste of whisky was probably when I was
teething. My first glass of whisky was handed to me by my dad,
and I was 16 years old. It’s kind of a rite of passage when your
dad passes you a single-malt scotch. And of course, it was a
Glenlivet.  Smith: I’m Scots/Irish. Do a lot of people tell you that?  Crawford: Yes, very often. It’s an honor for me when people
are proud of the heritage they have.  Scotland  is a very small
country but made huge inroads globally in innovation, in
ideological thinking. It makes me proud to be Scottish when
people come up and say they feel part of that.  Smith: Do you have a great job?  ‘Second-Best Job’  Crawford: I have the second-best job in the world. I say
that, because I have to believe there’s one more job better than
mine out there. Otherwise, I might get a big ego. I thoroughly
enjoy it and I’m very passionate. I don’t think you could do
this job without the passion.  Smith: Let’s do a tasting.  Crawford: Can I talk about the 18 because it’s my favorite?
It’s mostly distilled in American oak but a little bit of sherry
cask, and that gives a very complex, very balanced whisky.  Now you’ll notice I’m about to add a little bit of water to
the whisky. What the water does is actually open the whisky up
and release the flavors and its bouquet, and now it’s just ready
to be enjoyed. The Glenlivet 18-year-old whisky is the best
whisky to come out of Scotland, that is my honest, biased
opinion, but I stand by it.  Smith: Is that your first drink today?  Crawford: Yes, it is. Won’t be my last!  Bar Basque in Manhattan sells The Cellar Collection 1973, a
40-year old Glenlivet, by the glass, for $212 per two-ounce
pour.  ( Catherine Smith  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Smith in New York 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 