-- 
Gold May Go Even Higher on Fed's Stimulus, Bianco Research Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-04-05T20:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/gold-may-go-even-higher-on-fed-s-stimulus-bianco-research-says-tom-keene.html
Gold remains an attractive
investment even at record prices, fueled in part by the  Federal
Reserve ’s $600 billion of Treasuries purchases through June,
according to Bianco Research LLC in  Chicago .  “I think the path of least resistance for gold is
higher,” said James Bianco, the firm’s president, in a
television interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Gold futures for June delivery rose $19.50, or 1.4 percent,
to settle at $1,452.50 on the Comex in  New York , the highest
closing price ever.  “Quantitative easing has been an inspiration for the
massive, record speculation that we’ve seen for a lot of these
commodities,” Bianco said.  Inflation may return to the economy by the end of the year,
Bianco said. An end to the Fed’s asset purchases may lead to a
rise in short-term yields relative to longer-term yields, Bianco
said.  A difference of less than 1.5 percentage points between
Treasuries maturing in two- and 10-years may hurt financial
stocks, Bianco said. The gap is 2.66 percentage points, and has
not been below 2.5 percentage points since Dec. 6.  “Financials are a large carry trade,” Bianco said. “They
borrow at the short end of the curve, they invest at the long
end of the curve. As long as it’s very steep they make money.”
The yield curve is a measure of the differences between short-
and long-term  interest rates .  Policy makers should address the growth in the outstanding
Treasury debt before it expands further, Bianco said.  “It’s going to be problematic as we move forward from
here, especially if we continue to run big budget deficits,”
Bianco said.  (In the U.S., hear Bloomberg Radio on satellite radio: Sirius
Channel 130 and XM Channel 129. In  New York City , tune to WBBR
1130 on the AM dial.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  