-- 
Goldman Bets on Emerging Asia Credit Beating U.S. on Moderating Inflation

-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 
2011-04-05T08:01:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/goldman-bets-emerging-asia-over-u-s-on-moderating-inflation.html
Emerging market credit in Asia will
outperform the U.S. as inflation in the region moderates,
according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , reversing a December
stance that favored developed countries.  The pace of Asian central bank policy tightening will be
“more moderate than the market feared,” Goldman Sachs credit
strategists led by Lotfi Karoui and Annie Chu in  New York  said
in a report dated April 1. That contrasts with the U.S. and
Europe, where the  European Central Bank  is likely to raise rates
this week and the  Federal Reserve  may confirm the end of its
quantitative easing program in June, they wrote.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps beat the Markit iTraxx Asia index of swaps
by the most ever in the fourth quarter of 2010 on concern
inflation in  Asia  would force central bank rate increases. That
trend went into reverse last month, with the gap between the two
gauges shrinking the most on record.  “This performance gap looks less justified now,” the
strategists said. “Economic activity in several countries is
slowing in response to policy tightening, which suggests that
inflation pressures will subside in the upcoming quarters. This
healthier macro backdrop should in our opinion allow the recent
underperformance of Asia ex-Japan to reverse.”  The Markit iTraxx Asia index, which investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, narrowed to 104 basis points, 10.5 higher than
the U.S. gauge, the tightest level since November, CMA data
show. The gap widened to 29 basis points on Feb. 22.  Credit-default swaps, which typically rise as investor
confidence deteriorates and fall as it improves, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Keogh in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  