-- 
Google Said to Be Possible Target of Antitrust Probe by FTC

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-04-05T22:05:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/google-said-to-be-possible-target-of-antitrust-probe-after-ita-acquisition.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is
considering a broad antitrust investigation into  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
dominance of the Internet-search industry, two people familiar
with the matter said.  Before proceeding with any probe, the FTC is awaiting a
decision by the Justice Department on whether it will challenge
Google’s planned acquisition of ITA Software Inc. as a threat to
competition in the travel-information search business, said the
people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the matter
is still confidential.  An FTC investigation of Google, the world’s most popular
search engine, “could be on par” with the scope of the Justice
Department’s probe of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  a decade ago, said Keith
Hylton, an antitrust law professor at  Boston University School
of Law . Google “could fight the FTC, but that’s going to cost a
lot of money and time.”  The FTC and  Justice Department  share responsibility for
oversight of antitrust enforcement, and the outcome of the ITA
deal may determine whether the two agencies will vie for control
of a broader probe of Google, the people said. The two agencies
sometimes negotiate which will handle major antitrust
investigations, with the decision turning on their respective
expertise.  The Justice Department may soon announce its decision on
Google’s purchase of ITA, said the people familiar with the
matter.  Commissioner’s Support  FTC Commissioner Thomas Rosch said in an interview last
month he supported a probe of the dominant players in the
Internet-search industry, without specifying which companies.
Rosch, one of two Republicans on the five-member commission, is
the only commissioner to say publicly that such an investigation
is in order.  The people familiar with the matter said any investigation
of the search industry should concentrate on  Mountain View ,
California-based Google, owner of the world’s most popular
search engine.  If consumers don’t like what the company is doing, they can
switch to another search engine, said Adam Kovacevich, a Google
spokesman.  “Since competition is one click away on the Internet, we
work hard to put our users’ interests first and give them the
best, most relevant answers to their queries,” he said in an
e-mail. “We built Google for users, not websites.”  Google fell $18.59, or 3.2 percent, to $569.09 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading in  New York .  Texas and Europe  Cecelia Prewett, a spokeswoman at the FTC, and Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Google is facing growing scrutiny from regulators as it
bolsters its search business. Officials in  Texas  and the
European Commission have started investigations into Google’s
search dominance, while Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine is
considering such a probe.  The EU probe is examining whether Google discriminated
against other services in search results and stopped websites
from accepting rival ads. A complaint from Microsoft last month
may expand the investigation to online video and mobile phones.  The state of  Wisconsin  is weighing an examination of
Google’s bid to buy Cambridge, Massachusetts-based ITA, which
provides data for airline ticket fares to online travel sites,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  ‘Long Overdue’  Lawmakers including Senator  Mike Lee , a Utah Republican,
and Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat, have
urged the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust to hold a
hearing on Google’s dominance of Internet businesses.  Herb Kohl , the Wisconsin Democrat who heads the panel, has
said he’s examining Google.  “An investigation is long overdue,” said Gary Reback, an
antitrust lawyer with Carr & Ferrell LLP in  Menlo Park ,
 California , who represents companies that have complained about
Google to regulators here and in  Europe . “Every day there are
companies who are being hurt by Google’s anticompetitive
behavior and we still have arm-wrestling going on in
 Washington ,” he said in an interview yesterday.  It isn’t known whether the Justice Department or the FTC
would handle such an investigation because both agencies could
claim experience in reviewing Google’s businesses, said Robert Lande, a law professor at the University of Baltimore.  AdMob Purchase  The FTC gained knowledge of Google’s inner workings during
its review of the company’s $750 million purchase of AdMob Inc.,
a mobile ad service. The agency approved that acquisition last
year.  In 2007, the agency approved Google’s acquisition of
DoubleClick Inc., an online advertising company.  The FTC has been bolstering its expertise in technology and
the internet. Chairman Jonathan Leibowitz appointed Edward Felten, a Princeton professor known for cracking the music
industry’s digital-copyright protection code, as the agency’s
chief technologist in November.  Columbia Law School professor Timothy Wu, the author of
“Master Switch,” a book about the consolidation of information
industries, was appointed senior adviser in February to study
consumer protection and competition issues that affect the
Internet and mobile markets. Wu coined the term ‘net
neutrality,’ which advocates no restrictions on content, sites,
platforms or kinds of equipment.  Allegations of Deception  It’s possible the FTC, which handles consumer-protection
issues, could begin a probe examining allegations of deception
by Google, expanding it into a broader antitrust investigation,
Lande said.  On March 30, Google agreed to settle FTC claims that it
used deceptive tactics and violated its own privacy policies
when it introduced the Buzz social-networking service last year.  Last month, Rosch said if the FTC opens an investigation
into the search industry and decides to bring a case, it could
rely on powers it used to reach a settlement with  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
last year.  In the Intel case, the FTC invoked Section 5 of the law
that established the agency in 1914 to challenge “unfair or
deceptive” practices, going beyond what is specifically banned
by other federal antitrust statutes.  The use of Section 5 and FTC’s ability to handle its cases
through its own administrative processes rather than necessarily
going to court, as the Justice Department must, would make it
easier for the FTC to pursue Google, said  Herbert Hovenkamp , a
professor at the University of Iowa College of Law.  Business Practices  The Justice Department also has experience in scrutinizing
Google’s business practices.  Since July, the Justice Department has been reviewing
Google’s planned acquisition of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
ITA.  As part of that review, the department may decide to impose
restrictions on Google, approve the deal outright or challenge
it in court, Lande said. The department also could decide to
file a broader antitrust case, making an FTC probe unnecessary,
although Lande said that was “very unlikely.”  The department in November 2008 threatened to sue Google
over its planned alliance with Yahoo! Inc. Google scrapped an
agreement to place ads on Yahoo.  “When Microsoft was really dominating the market, Google
was complaining there was a violation of the antitrust law,”
said Christopher Tang, a professor of business administration at
the  University of California  at  Los Angeles . “And now Google is
becoming more dominant in the search space, and people are
concerned Google is entering too many market places.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  