-- 
Grimm Rejects Tea Party That Backed Him for Wall Street

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-04-05T19:44:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/grimm-rejects-tea-party-activists-who-backed-him-for-wall-street.html
“Mikey Suits,” the FBI agent-
turned- New York City  congressman, is working hard to defend the
industry he once made his name busting.  “When we demonize  Wall Street , it’s the people on Main
Street who don’t have a job,” U.S. Representative Michael Grimm
said as he walked the Jersey City trading floor of ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest interdealer broker.  In any other Congress, Grimm’s support for businesses that
employ many of his constituents wouldn’t attract attention.  Not this year. Like many new Republicans in Congress, Grimm
was propelled into office by Tea Party activists determined to
slash  government spending  and stop economic bailout efforts like
the Troubled Asset Relief Program that aided Wall Street. Now,
the lawmaker whose fondness for pinstripes earned him his
nickname is doing what it takes to get re-elected in a  Staten
Island  district dependent on financial-service and government
jobs -- and angering some supporters in the process.  His approach helps explain why the 87 new House Republican
freshmen haven’t hardened into the block of anti-government
lawmakers that Tea Party activists thought they elected.  Grimm and other Republicans who represent swing districts
have discovered that the agenda of the fiscally conservative
activists who helped elect them can conflict with the interests
of constituents.  “My district is center-right and I think that’s what I’m
representing,” said Grimm, 41, who won his seat in November
against one-term Democrat Michael McMahon with 51 percent of the
vote. “I would say I’m being fiscally responsible but being
fair and reasonable by doing so.”  Light Rail  In Grimm’s case, that has meant lobbying for a new light
rail system in his district, even as Republican governors such
as  Rick Scott  in  Florida  and  Chris Christie  of  New Jersey  reject
federal transit funding as wasteful spending.  While Republicans fight for steeper cuts in federal
spending, he’s opposing funding reductions for police, transit,
and low-income heating assistance programs the House approved as
part of an  overall bill  that would trim 2011 spending by $61
billion.  As House Republican leaders negotiate with Democrats who
control the Senate on whether to settle for $33 billion in cuts,
Grimm has slammed Tea Party activists who prefer a government
shutdown to backing off the $61 billion-reduction figure. On
March 14, he termed such activists the “extreme wing of the
 Republican Party .”  That comment didn’t sit well with some of his earliest
supporters.  ‘Insulting’  “His use of the word ‘extreme’ was insulting especially so
to Tea Partiers, who have been eating, sleeping and breathing
drastic -- even draconian -- spending cuts since” the TARP
financial-rescue package was enacted in late 2008, wrote Frank
Santarpia, an organizer of the Staten Island Tea Party, in a
letter posted on the group’s website.  During his primary campaign, Grimm cultivated the backing
of Tea Party groups and touted an endorsement from former Alaska
governor Sarah Palin. Such support helped him defeat a candidate
backed by Staten Island Republican leaders for the party’s
nomination.  As November’s election neared, though, Grimm declined to
call himself a “Tea Party candidate” in an  interview  with the
Daily Caller website.  Now, Grimm says he supports the basic Tea Party principles
of fiscal responsibility while opposing those embracing a
shutdown.  ‘Shortchanging America’  “By listening to these groups we would be shortchanging
America,” he said.  Tea Party activists are likely to turn on lawmakers such as
Grimm, said Brian Darling, the director of government studies at
the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington-based advocacy group that
promotes fiscally conservative policies.  “When you’ve got Tea Party-supported politicians sticking
their thumb in the eye of the Tea Party, there will be a price
to pay,” Darling said. “They are going to go after politicians
who reject them maybe even harder then they go after liberal
Democrats.”  Still, to challenge members like Grimm, Tea Party activists
must find a way to keep their diffuse, leaderless movement
unified for another election cycle.  Santarpia said not all members of his group share his
disappointment with Grimm. “Grimm’s middle-of-the-road approach
satisfies the pragmatists but, to a certain extent, disappoints
the hawks,” he said in an interview.  Analysts say it isn’t surprising that Tea Party ideals are
taking a back seat to the temperament of Grimm’s district.  ‘Comfortable With Government’  “The mood of the island is pretty comfortable with
government,” said Richard Flanagan, a political science
professor at the College of Staten Island. “For Grimm, the play
is to bring home the bacon.”  Almost 13 percent of Staten Islanders work in real estate,
insurance, and finance, according to Jim Brown, a labor market
analyst at the New York State Department of Labor. Another 22
percent of the borough’s residents are government workers, above
the almost 15 percent national average.  Grimm worked for the government for most of his career. He
joined the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  as a clerk while
attending college, after having served in the U.S. Marines
during the 1991  Gulf War .  He eventually became an agent, and worked undercover in
“Operation Wooden Nickel,” in which dozens of Wall Street
traders, brokers, and executives were implicated in a corrupt
foreign trading operation. The probe’s targets included JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   ‘Ludicrous’  “The idea that there’s no role for government is
ludicrous,” Grimm said. His goal, he said, is “putting
government back to its original position, which is limited but
should be effective and efficient.”  Three weeks after taking office in January, he met with
congressional and local officials to build support for a new
rail line connecting Staten Island and New Jersey.  On Feb. 9, Grimm voted against a Republican-sponsored bill
to cut $179 million from security funding for the United Nations
headquarters in New York City.  ‘Grave Concern’  Five days later, Grimm joined Representative Peter King, a
Republican from  Long Island , in writing House Speaker  John Boehner  to express “grave concern” that the chamber’s budget
bill would “impose a disproportionate impact” on the New York
region by slashing more than $750 million in funding for  Amtrak 
and heating assistance for low-income families, among other
programs.  Grimm ultimately voted for the House’s budget bill, after
supporting two Democratic amendments to restore funding for
police and fire programs.  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee quickly
authorized a series of automated telephone calls to voters that
criticized him for backing a bill with the cuts to police
funding.  “Representative Michael Grimm has been trying to dance
around the truth of his extremist agenda and Tea Party roots,”
said Josh Schwerin, northeast regional press secretary for the
DCCC.  Grimm has made clear he will try to dodge that line of
attack. “I don’t want to give the Democrats the option to stand
up and say, ‘Look how unreasonable’” Republicans are, he said.  Committee Post  Grimm is emerging as an advocate for financial services
firms. He’s using his seat on the  House Financial Services
committee  to push for a re-examination of the financial
regulatory overhaul former Senator  Christopher Dodd , a
Connecticut Democrat, and Representative  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat, pushed through Congress last year.
Critics say the measure is burdensome.  “We’re going through Dodd-Frank literally line by line,”
he told  ICAP Plc (IAP)  Americas Chief Executive Officer Doug Rhoten
during his visit to the Jersey City office. “We don’t want to
be a burden on a sector that quite frankly is extremely
important.”  The new rules are required to be in place by July 2011.
ICAP and other firms are lobbying Congress to give the market
more time to adjust.  “It’s a very aggressive time frame,” said Chris Ferreri,
a managing director at ICAP and Staten Island resident, who
invited Grimm to the company. “Phasing in such comprehensive
changes to the market place would be a more practical
solution.”  Between the shouts of brokers cursing out each other and
the market, Grimm during his office visit promised ICAP
executives that they’d have an open line to his office.  “We’re here to make the relationship,” he said. “We want
to know how this is going to affect you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 