-- 
GVK Said to Be in Talks With Investors for Hancock Mines Deal

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-05T14:55:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/gvk-said-to-be-in-talks-with-investors-for-hancock-mines-deal.html
GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP) , a
builder of airports and utilities controlled by Indian
billionaire GV Krishna Reddy, is in talks with investors to
fund the purchase of two  Hancock Prospecting Pty  coal mines,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  GVK is talking with investors including 3i Group Plc and
Actis LLP, said one of the people, who declined to be identified
because the information is private. The firms have already
agreed to invest in two units of Secunderabad, Andhra Pradesh-
based GVK.  GVK may pay about $1.5 billion in total for Hancock’s Alpha
Coal ans  Kevin’s Corner  mines, two of the people said. The
Indian company will invest at least an additional $6.5
billion in the next eight years to develop the mines and extract
coal, which will fuel power plants in India, the people
said. Indian companies including  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI)  and  Adani
Enterprises Ltd. (ADE)  have bought mines in Australia in the past year
for power stations at home.  The talks with Hancock are exclusive, one of the people
said. The talks were earlier reported by India’s Business
Standard newspaper.  Tad Watroba, who handles media inquiries for Hancock,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  GVK Chief Financial Officer A. Issac George didn’t respond
to an e-mail. Isabel Unsworth, spokeswoman of 3i in  London , said
the company doesn’t comment on “market speculation.” Sanjiv Aggarwal, an Actis partner in  New Delhi , didn’t respond to an e-
mail.  GVK shares rose 1.2 percent to 28.55 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close of trading in Mumbai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  