-- 
Libyan Rebels Prepare to Export Oil as Forces Loyal to Qaddafi Gain Ground

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-04-05T19:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/libyan-rebels-push-forward-in-center-of-country-preparing-to-export-crude.html
Libyan rebels were pushed back from
the central port of Brega by heavy fire from forces loyal to
 Muammar Qaddafi  as the opposition prepared to export crude oil
for the first time since the conflict began six weeks ago.  Rebels retreated from Brega after capturing part of it
yesterday, the  Associated Press  reported. Regime forces fired
rockets and artillery at the rebels today, sending many of them
back to the city of Ajdabiya, the AP reported.  The oil tanker Equator, which can carry 1 million barrels,
arrived at the Marsa al Hariga terminal near the port of Tobruk
in opposition-controlled eastern Libya at about 2 p.m. time
local time, according to AISLive Ltd. ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Libya’s conflict, which began with an uprising aimed at
ending Qaddafi’s 42-year rule, has threatened to grind to a
stalemate. The rebels, largely disorganized, have been unable to
advance without help from NATO airstrikes.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization reported that the
strikes by the U.S. and allies have destroyed nearly a third of
Qaddafi’s heavy weapons, according to AP. The alliance said that
Qaddafi’s forces attacking rebel-held Misrata have moved tanks
and heavy weapons into city areas where NATO won’t strike them
because of the risk of civilian casualties, AP said.  Oil Falls  Oil slipped from its highest level in more than 30 months
as  China  boosted  interest rates  to restrain inflation, spurring
speculation that demand may decline. Oil for May delivery
dropped 22 cents, or 0.2 percent, to $108.25 a barrel at 2:17
p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It traded as high as
$108.78 a barrel yesterday, the highest price since Sept. 24,
2008. Futures have risen 25 percent in the past year.  Libyan rebels have “raised concerns about the lack of
funds, as well as issues relating to the marketing and sale of
oil and gas in Libya,” Abdul Ilah al-Khatib, the  United Nations 
special envoy to Libya, told the UN Security Council yesterday,
according to a  statement  on the Council’s website.  The European Union’s embargo on Libyan oil and gas  exports 
only targets the Qaddafi regime, Michael Mann, spokesman for
European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , told
reporters in Brussels today. Mann said the 27-nation bloc had
“no issue” with commercial dealings in Libyan gas and oil as
long as the revenue didn’t reach Qaddafi and his supporters. The
United Nations imposed  sanctions  on Libya which the EU adopted
and expanded.  ‘International Dialogue’  European governments have repeatedly said the 68-year-old
Qaddafi must go and rejected diplomatic overtures from the
Libyan government, which yesterday called for an “international
dialogue” to resolve the conflict.  The regime in Tripoli would offer elections, though any
resolution wouldn’t include Qaddafi’s exit in the near future,
government spokesman Moussa Ibrahim said at a press conference.
Qaddafi’s future must be decided by the Libyan people since he
has “symbolic significance” for the nation, Ibrahim said.  Italy  rejected a reported cease-fire proposal and yesterday
became the latest government to recognize the rebels’ interim
council as the nation’s legitimate government. So far France,
Qatar and Italy have recognized the rebels, with Kuwait saying
it was prepared to.  U.S. Envoy  The U.S. and the U.K., which have contacts with the rebels,
haven’t formally recognized the opposition. A U.S. envoy,
diplomat Chris Stevens, arrived today in Benghazi to “assess
the situation” and is talking with opposition leaders, U.S.
State Department spokesman Mark Toner said.  NATO warplanes jets carried out 14 air strikes in Libya
yesterday, including regime targets at Misrata and Brega, NATO’s
chief of allied operations, Brigadier General Mark van Uhm, said
at briefing in Brussels. British Tornado GR4 jets yesterday made
missile strikes on a Libyan tank and two surface-to-air missile
launchers near Sirte, the Ministry of Defense in  London  said in
an e-mailed statement.  Capturing Brega is crucial for the rebels because its
refinery could boost the opposition’s control of oil in the
east. The rebels’ national council said April 1 that it had
reached a deal to have Qatar help market Libyan oil, with
proceeds going toward food, fuel, medicine and other uses.
Italian oil company  Eni SpA (ENI)  has been in contact with the Libyan
rebels now that Italy has recognized the council.  Qaddafi Envoy  Qaddafi’s acting foreign minister, Abdul Ati al-Obeidi, met
yesterday with officials in  Greece ,  Turkey  and Malta. The Libyan
official made no comment before leaving the Maltese capital
Valletta after midnight. The island nation’s prime minister,
Lawrence Gonzi, declined to say what al-Obeidi had offered.  “I insisted that no mediation can take place unless there
is a credible cease-fire in place and that Qaddafi withdraws all
his troops and military hardware from every town, village and
city,” Gonzi told reporters after the meeting.  The Greek government said that al-Obeidi’s visit was the
latest attempt by the Libyan leader to resolve the crisis
through a settlement. Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini
yesterday dismissed the reported cease-fire proposal by the
Libyan leader, calling it “not credible.”  U.S. Pulls Jets  The U.S. military pulled out its fighter jets after
yesterday’s mission over  Libya , carrying out a pledge by
President  Barack Obama  to hand over most military missions to
NATO and its allies. The U.S. will keep attack aircraft on
standby and resume flights if necessary, while U.S. command and
control aircraft and navy ships remain in action.  NATO’s van Uhm rejected suggestions that the U.S. pullback
had weakened the mission. The total number of flight missions
conducted yesterday was 150, including policing the no-fly zone,
down from 154 the day before. Yesterday’s missions included 58
strike sorties, aircraft intended to identify and engage
targets, of which 14 launched munitions, according to NATO. The
strikes included one against a rocket launcher “that was
firing” on rebels near Brega, van Uhm said.  The alliance’s commander “has the assets he needs to
execute his mission,” van Uhm told reporters in Brussels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  