-- 
Lime Wire Judge Limits Recordings for Which Music Labels Can Seek Damages

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-04-05T17:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/lime-wire-judge-limits-recordings-for-which-music-labels-can-seek-damages.html
A federal judge limited the number
of recordings for which music labels can seek monetary damages
in the copyright infringement case against website Lime Wire
LLC.  U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood  said that the record labels
can’t demand statutory damages for each individual song that
appears on an album, according to a filing yesterday in
 Manhattan . A trial for damages is set to begin May 2.  Wood found Lime Wire and its founder,  Mark Gorton , liable
for inducing copyright infringement last year. The LimeWire
website allowed users, without authorization from copyright
owners, to download recordings and share them with others on
their computers. As the case has moved into the damages phase,
each side is trying to increase or limit the number of
recordings liable for monetary awards.  Total damages could reach hundreds of millions of dollars,
according to court papers.  Music labels, including  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Arista Records and
 Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) ’s Atlantic Records, have identified
11,205 recordings that they say LimeWire users infringed, and
said they’ll seek statutory damages for 9,715. Copyright law
allows statutory damages of up to $150,000 per infringed work,
which meant a possible liability of more than $1 billion.  Infringed Works  Wood said in her ruling that an album constitutes one
infringed work. The exception to that is a track from the album
released as a single recording to be sold through  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iTunes or some other retailer.  In March Wood ruled that the labels were entitled to only
one statutory damage award for each work infringed, regardless
of how many people downloaded the recording. The labels’ demands
could have meant damages of trillions of dollars, which she said
was an “absurdity.”  Wood ordered the labels to submit their final list of
recordings by April 15.  Lime Wire was ordered last year to shut down its music
file-sharing site.  The case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC, 06-05936,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  