-- 
IMF Report on Capital Controls Opposed by Nations Seeking More Flexibility

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-04-05T19:18:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/imf-capital-control-proposal-marks-shift-as-brazil-holds-out-with-minority.html
An International Monetary Fund staff
 proposal  to endorse capital controls in limited circumstances
aroused opposition from Brazil and other nations seeking greater
freedom to stem inflows of money from overseas.  “We strongly oppose any such guidelines or ‘codes of
conduct’ that establish, standardize, prioritize or restrict the
range of policy responses of the member countries that are
facing large surges in volatile capital inflows,” Paulo Nogueira Batista, Brazil’s executive director at the IMF who
also represents eight other countries, said in an e-mail.  Countries from  Indonesia  to  South Africa  are striving to
manage inflows of overseas capital that put upward pressure on
their currencies, making exports less competitive, and threaten
to inflate asset-price bubbles. Nations including  China  and
 South Korea  have argued that U.S. monetary easing has added to
cross-border money flows in pursuit of higher returns.  “A majority” of the IMF board meeting on March 21 backed
the IMF staff guidelines, the Washington-based agency said in an
e-mail statement today. At the same time, a “significant
minority” was “concerned” that such recommendations “would
restrict the range of policy responses.”  The IMF proposal, reported last week by Bloomberg News and
made public today, backs the use of  capital controls  as a last
resort after countries strengthen banking systems and adopt
economic measures such as building up reserves, tightening
fiscal policies and lowering central bank interest rates.  Advice to Members  “This framework will be used by the fund as a basis to
providing policy advice to all member countries,” Aasim Husain,
an adviser in the IMF’s Strategy Policy and Review Department,
said on a conference call with reporters. “Over time, it will
be refined and adjusted based on experience.”  The endorsement of capital controls, even as a last resort,
marks a shift for the IMF, which has insisted on maintaining
unrestricted flows of money across borders as it led bailouts
during crises in Latin America and  Asia  in the 1990s.  Resistance from emerging economies makes it less likely
that the agency will be able to use the guidelines in its annual
assessments of the economies and policies of its members, known
as Article IV consultations, said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow
at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington.  “The IMF appears to have been blindsided by the lack of
support from key emerging markets,” said Prasad, who headed the
fund’s Financial Studies Division in 2005 and 2006. “These
countries’ governments remain dubious about the IMF’s intentions
and are wary of giving the institution a greater say in these
matters.”  ‘Generally Beneficial’  Directors “emphasized that capital inflows are generally
beneficial for recipient countries, promoting investment and
growth,” the IMF said. “At the same time, they recognized that
a sudden surge in inflows can pose challenges, including
currency appreciation pressures, overheating, the buildup of
financial fragilities, and the risk of a sudden reversal of
inflows.”  Directors “agreed that the recent surge of capital inflows
has been driven by a combination of improved fundamentals and
growth prospects in capital-receiving economies and
accommodative monetary policy in capital-originating
economies,” the IMF said.  Brazil ’s Nogueira Batista said that there was a “lack of
even-handedness” in the report, which “downplays the supply
side factors driving” the increase in inflows.  Asked whether the IMF would put more emphasis on these
“push factors,” the IMF’s Husain told reporters that upcoming
reports will study the impact of policies by the U.S. and other
major economies onto the rest of the world, including monetary
policy.  Today’s report focuses on seven nations, including Brazil,
South Korea and  Turkey , and warns that some may be tempted to
use capital controls “to avoid appreciation of undervalued
currencies.”  Overheating Economies  The guidelines suggest that measures should only be used if
a currency isn’t undervalued, reserves are above precautionary
levels and the economy is overheating, making lower  interest
rates  impossible.  The report says “prudential” steps that strengthen the
ability of economies to absorb overseas capital, such as
measures to develop local bond markets, can be used at “any
time.” Such steps also include  reserve requirements  for local-
currency deposits adopted by Turkey and Brazil.  Capital-management measures that do not discriminate based
on residency can come as a “second line of defense,” according
to the report, which cites South Korea’s levy on banks’ non-
deposit foreign liabilities as an example.  Measures “that discriminate based on residency could be
considered when other options have already been deployed or are
infeasible,” staff wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  