-- 
India Stops Iranian Oil Payments Through Germany, Official Says

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-04-05T11:35:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/india-stops-iranian-oil-payments-through-germany-official-says.html
India  has voluntarily put an end to
the payment of Iranian oil imports through banks in  Germany , a
government official said today, contradicting a  Handelsblatt
 report that Chancellor Angela Merkel’s office had intervened.  The Chancellory didn’t prohibit the channeling of funds via
Deutsche Bundesbank in  Frankfurt  and the Hamburg-resgistered
Europaeisch-Iranische Handelsbank AG, said the official,
speaking on customary condition of anonymity. Merkel’s office
instructed the Bundesbank to refuse payments for new oil sales
from Iran to India, according to the Handelsblatt report, which
cited unidentified officials.  The German government has no legal evidence that  EIHB ,
which is owned by Iranian lenders, is involved in the financing
of  Iran’s nuclear program  or violating sanctions, according to
an Economy Ministry report yesterday to the lower house of
parliament, the Bundestag.  The EIHB hasn’t been subjected to European Union financial
sanctions and money transfers to and from the bank aren’t
forbidden, according to the report. The EIHB, black-listed by
the U.S. late last year, should be shut down, Handelsblatt cited
Yinam Cohen, a spokesman for  Israel ’s embassy in Berlin, as
saying.  The German government and the Bundesbank can only block
transactions between financial institutions that are legally
prohibited or violate anti-proliferation laws, the Bundesbank
said in a statement today. The Bundesbank can’t comment on
individual transactions for legal reasons, it said.  Michael Tockuss, the head of the German Iranian Chamber of
Commerce in Hamburg, who speaks on behalf of the EIHB, was not
immediately able to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  