-- 
ING Sees ‘Liquidity Bubble’ in European LBO Financing Market

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-04-05T08:33:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/ing-sees-liquidity-bubble-in-european-leveraged-buyout-financing-market.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the top arranger of
buyout loans in  Europe  this year, sees a “liquidity bubble”
building as lenders forego protection and accept lower fees.  “There is a liquidity bubble in the European leveraged
loan market at the moment, driven by institutional fund
liquidity,” said Gerrit Stoelinga, global head of structured
acquisition finance at Amsterdam-based ING, which toppled Lloyds
Banking Group Plc as no. 1 loan arranger to private-equity
firms, underwriting 10 percent of deals in the first quarter.  Investors more than doubled loans to finance private-equity
led takeovers in the first quarter to $6.7 billion as the
economy shows signs of strengthening, reducing risk that
the neediest borrowers will default. Inflows to funds dedicated
to loans and floating-rate debt jumped to $8.5 billion this
year, compared with $1.7 billion in the same period in 2010,
data from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global show.  The demand helped push down average interest margins to 438
basis points more than benchmark lending rates from 454 a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  “We have seen aggressive pricing recently,” Stoelinga
said, and an increase of bullet structures where principal is
repaid in a lump sum at maturity instead of throughout the life
of the loan.  ING will continue to focus on its “sweet spot,” of mid-
sized deals of 200 million euros ($284 million) to 500 million
euros, and may add junior bankers this year to the acquisition
finance team to cope with rising deal flow, Stoelinga said. The
average buyout loan is $337 million this year, down from $911
million in 2007, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  