-- 
Intesa Sanpaolo Said to Approve $7.1 Billion Capital Boost With Share Sale

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-04-05T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/intesa-sanpaolo-said-to-approve-7-1-billion-capital-boost-with-share-sale.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-
biggest bank, plans to sell 5 billion euros ($7.1 billion) in
new shares to existing investors to bolster capital, said a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Intesa’s management and supervisory boards, meeting
yesterday in Milan, approved the sale, as well as the company’s
new business plan, said the person, who declined to be
identified before a public announcement.  Italian banks are boosting reserves before the
implementation of new capital rules imposed by regulators to
avert a repeat of the global financial crisis. Intesa’s planned
offer follows sales announced by  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  and Unione di
Banche Italiane SCPA. Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA may
call a board meeting next week to approve a 2 billion-euro
rights offer, after it gained the support of its main
shareholder, two people familiar with the situation said
yesterday.  “It’s the right time for a share sale,” said Fabrizio Spagna, chairman of Axia Financial Research, in a phone
interview. “It will consolidate Intesa’s capital position at a
higher level to comply with Basel III requirements.”  Intesa was unchanged at 2.13 euros in Milan trading
yesterday, giving the company a market value of 27 billion
euros. The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
has dropped 4 percent in the past six months, compared with
Intesa’s 11 percent decline.  ‘Lengthy Process’  The rights offer “would eliminate most of the upside in
our current base scenario,” Ronny Rehn and Aldo Comi, analysts
at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd., wrote in a note yesterday. They
lowered their rating on Intesa to “market perform” from
“outperform,” reflecting “the potentially lengthy process of
a rights issue in  Italy ,” they said.  New rules drawn up by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  and endorsed by Group of 20 leaders last year will
require lenders to more than triple the highest-quality capital
they hold to cushion against losses by 2019.  Intesa’s profit declined 7 percent to 505 million euros in
the fourth quarter on lower income from lending, while its core
tier 1 ratio stood at 7.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  