-- 
Intersil Shares Surge on Speculation Chipmaker May Become Takeover Target

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-04-05T20:18:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/intersil-shares-surge-on-speculation-chipmaker-may-become-takeover-target.html
Intersil Corp. (ISIL) , a maker of analog
chips, surged the most in two years in Nasdaq trading on
speculation it will become a takeover target following  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN) ’s agreement to buy  National Semiconductor Corp. (NSM)   The planned acquisition of National Semiconductor for a 78
percent premium to its closing share price yesterday has led to
optimism that more semiconductor deals may happen, said Vernon Essi, a Boston-based analyst at Needham & Co.  “It was dramatically higher than what most investors would
think and it actually works,” said Essi, who rates Intersil
shares “buy” and doesn’t own them. “Intersil is a smaller-cap
version of where National Semiconductor was before yesterday.”  Milpitas, California-based Intersil rose $1.02, or 8.4
percent, to $13.14 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The shares have declined 14 percent this year.  Texas Instruments, the second-largest U.S. chipmaker,
yesterday agreed to buy National Semiconductor for about $6.5
billion. Intersil might make a target for other companies that
want to broaden their own product lines in response because its
stock price-to-sales ratio is relatively cheap, said  Doug
Freedman , a Gleacher & Co. analyst.  The companies are makers of so-called analog
semiconductors, which go into everything from military hardware
to washing machines. The chips perform functions such as power
regulation and the conversion of real-world inputs, like touch
and sound, into electronic signals.  Brendan Lahiff, a spokesman for Intersil, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  