-- 
Generali, Intesa, Parmalat, and Pirelli: Italian Equity Preview

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-04-06T06:14:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/intesa-ansaldo-generali-unicredit-italian-equity-preview.html
The following companies may be
active in Italian trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
share prices are from the previous close.  Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  rose for a third day,
gaining 51.17, or 0.2 percent, to 22,058.98 in Milan.  Ansaldo STS (STS IM):  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s railway
technology unit said Sergio De Luca has been confirmed as
Ansaldo’s chief executive officer. The shares increased 1
percent to 10.49 euros.  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  : The insurer holds a
special board meeting to try to resolve differences over
governance and strategy. The shares gained 0.4 percent to 15.47
euro.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  : The heads of
banking foundations, the biggest investors in Italy’s lenders,
meet with Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti to discuss whether to
provide more funds to the industry as banks seek to meet tougher
 capital requirements . Monte Paschi faces a capital shortfall
after getting 5 billion euros from investors in 2008, half of
which was provided by its foundation. The stock was unchanged at
87.5 euro cents.  Fondiaria-SAI SpA (FSA)  : Groupama SA may still buy a
stake of as much as 18 percent in the Italian insurer, after the
country’s regulator stopped the French insurer’s plan to buy
stock in Fondiaria’s controlling shareholder, Il Sole 24 Ore
reported, citing unidentified people close to the French
company. The shares lost 0.9 percent to 6 euros.  Intesa SanPaolo SpA (ISP)  : Italy’s second-biggest bank
forecasts net income of 4.2 billion euros for 2013. The company
expects 2015 net to be 5.6 billion euros. Intesa plans a rights
offer for as much as 5 billion euros. Intesa was unchanged at
2.13 euros.  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  : The dairy company may buy smaller
rival Granarolo SpA before being taken over by an investor group
that wants to keep the company in Italian hands, daily Il
Messaggero reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Parmalat may pay about 500 million euros for Granarolo,
according to the Italian newspaper. The shares lost 2.5 percent
to 2.31 euros.  Pirelli & C SpA (PC)  : Europe’s third-largest tiremaker
was upgraded to “overweight” from “underweight” at Morgan
Stanley. The shares advanced 0.7 percent to 6.38 euros.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  : Hedge funds withdrew a claim for
17.35 billion euros brought in German courts against Italy’s
biggest bank by assets, UniCredit said in a stock exchange
statement. The shares gained 0.8 percent to 1.73 euros.  -- Editor: Stephen Kleege, Dan Liefgreen  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  