-- 
Iran Touts Its Islamic Republic as Model for New Arab Regimes

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-05T20:01:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/iran-touts-its-islamic-republic-as-model-for-new-arab-regimes.html
Iran  sees the turmoil in the Arab
world playing to its benefit, with new governments likely to
emulate the Islamic Republic’s independence from the U.S. and
other Western powers, Iran’s envoy to the  United Nations  said.  “The geo-political picture of the region is changing in
favor of Iran,” Ambassador Mohammad Khazaee said in an
interview yesterday in his New York office. “The movement in
the region is against the old system of dictatorship kinds of
governments, having rulers that follow the wishes of the big
powers in the world.”  The unrest that has shaken or toppled governments from
 Tunisia  to Bahrain will create a “different power structure,”
Khazaee said. “You will have a different  Egypt . You will have a
different  Libya . You have a different Tunisia.”  The new leaders may respect Iran’s strength in pursuing its
“national interests without listening to outsiders the way
 Hosni Mubarak  was listening to them,” he said.  Khazaee referred to the deposed president of Egypt, a U.S.
ally who made peace with Israel and promoted an end to Israel’s
conflict with the Palestinians.  The transition in the Arab world might strengthen Iran’s
standing and pose a threat to the West if Islamist groups such
as the Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt’s largest organized opposition
group, gain strength, according to Ilan Berman, vice president
of the Washington-based American Foreign Policy Council.  “Certainly there is a danger,” Berman said in an
interview. “The new regime in Egypt may be more favorable to a
partnership with Iran than Mubarak was. Certainly, Iran has
tried very hard to project a sense of triumphalism.”  Iranian Overtures  Egyptian Foreign Minister Nabil El-Arabi met with an
Iranian official in Cairo today, as the Egyptian media reported
talks toward restoring diplomatic relations severed by Iran in
1980 to protest Egypt’s recognition of  Israel .  “We are evaluating all the relations with all countries
that we are not having relations with, including Iran,” Maged Abdelaziz, Egypt’s ambassador to the UN said in an interview.
“We have always been independent We will develop whatever model
is suitable for us.”  Iran since 2003 has been at odds with the U.S. and its
allies over the aims of its nuclear program, which the West
suspects is intended to produce atomic weapons. Iran says the
program is for peaceful purposes and has refused to abandon it.
The UN Security Council has passed sanctions that include a ban
on the sale or purchase of military weapons.  Pressing the UN  The government in Tehran, which has criticized Western
military action in Libya and  Saudi Arabia ’s deployment of troops
to quell unrest in Bahrain, has asked the UN to help stop those
interventions. President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  appealed to
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in a telephone conversation on
April 3, Khazaee said.  “If the secretary-general can do something, it is up to
him,” Khazaee said.  The UN released a statement saying that Ban in the phone
call emphasized “the importance of protecting civilians and of
upholding human rights.” There was no indication that Ban, who
supports the Western intervention in Libya, was backing off.  Concern about Iran’s influence in the region emerged at an
April 3 meeting in  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia of foreign ministers of
the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council. They issued a statement
criticizing Iran for interfering in domestic politics of Kuwait
and  Bahrain  amid uprisings there.  “Iran has since 1979 claimed that the Islamic revolution
is a model that should be exported,” Gala Riani, a Middle East
analyst at London-based forecaster IHS Global Insight said in an
interview. “They will try to use what is happening to their
benefit, to say that this is what they have been talking about
all along,” he said.  Legitimacy Questioned  Khazaee’s talk of increased stature for Iran may be
intended to “shore up the legitimacy of the regime, which is
under severe question,” Riani said.  The danger for Iran, according to Berman and Riani, is that
the democratic stirrings in the region will spawn increasing
protests against the government in Tehran.  “There is a huge undercurrent of danger for the Iranians
that the ambassador did not talk about,” Berman said. “He
works for a repressive regime that does not follow the dictates
of its own people. The unrest in the region has the potential
for transforming his government as well.”  Khazaee said there is a qualitative difference between the
protests in Bahrain, Egypt and elsewhere in the region because
Iran has the “best democratic system in the region,” and any
disputes there are “in the nature of a democracy.”  Freedom House, a Washington-based human rights group,
classifies Iran as a “ not free ” country where freedom of
expression is “severely limited” and anti-government protests
have been “violently” suppressed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  