-- 
Service Industries in U.S. Expand Less Than Forecast on Higher Fuel Costs

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-05T21:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/ism-services-index-in-u-s-fell-to-57-3-in-march-from-59-7.html
Service industries  in the U.S. grew
less than forecast in March, showing higher fuel costs are
raising concern sales will cool.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing companies fell to 57.3 from 59.7 in February,
lower than the 59.5 median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  Unrest in the Arab world has caused gasoline prices to
climb to the highest level in more than two years, representing
a headwind for  consumer spending , while the aftermath of the
disaster in Japan may disrupt supplies to American factories.
Minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s meeting last month, which took
place before the latest run-up in prices, showed policy makers
were divided over when to begin removing record stimulus.  “Global events of elevated uncertainty have taken
something of a toll,” said  Richard DeKaser , an economist at
Parthenon Group in  Boston . “It looks like April is continuing
to struggle under some of these clouds. We’re seeing a little
bit of a slowdown” in the economy, he said.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 69 economists ranged
from 57.7 to 61. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s index of the
industry, which accounts for about 90 percent of the economy,
averaged 56.1 in the five years to December 2007, when the last
recession began.  Last month’s drop in the services index was led by a 7-
point slump in the business activity component, that measure’s
biggest decrease since November 2008. The gauge is a reflection
of sentiment among purchasers, according to economists.  Gasoline Prices  The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline at the
pump advanced to $3.69 yesterday, the highest since September
2008, according to data from AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring
group.  While the Fed’s decision to continue their $600 billion
bond-purchase program was unanimous, minutes of the March 15
meeting showed a few of the 10 voting members of the central
bank’s policy-making committee thought evidence of a stronger
recovery, higher inflation and rising inflation expectations
“could make it appropriate to reduce the pace or overall size”
of the plan. “Several others” said they “did not anticipate
making adjustments,” the report showed.  Stocks trimmed earlier gains after the minutes on concern
Fed officials will begin to remove stimulus. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at 1,332.63 at the 4 p.m.
close in  New York .  Treasury securities  fell, pushing the yield
on the 10-year note up to 3.48 percent from 3.42 percent late
yesterday.  Breakdown of Index  The ISM’s measure of new orders at service providers
decreased to 64.1 from 64.4 in February. The group’s employment
gauge dropped to 53.7 from 55.6 a month earlier. The index of
prices paid declined to 72.1 from 73.3.  The ISM services survey covers industries that range from
utilities and retailing to health care, finance and
transportation. Today’s report follows the group’s April 1
figures that showed manufacturing grew in March at close to the
fastest pace in almost seven years.  The services gauge has averaged 53.1 since the recovery
started in June 2009 through March, trailing the 56.2 reading on
the group’s factory measure during the same period.  The factory rebound is generating more demand for services,
which account for almost 90 percent of the economy, benefiting
companies such as  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , which operates the world’s
biggest cargo airline.  ‘Performing Strongly’  “Our businesses are performing strongly in the  United
States , where industrial production growth is expected to
approach nearly 5 percent in 2011, outpacing GDP and supporting
overall transportation volumes,” Fred Smith, chief executive
officer of FedEx, said in a teleconference.  The economic expansion is extending to smaller businesses.
Matt Ziegler, president of  ZMac Transportation LLC , said demand
to move mining equipment and parts of vessels this year is
bucking the annual trend.  “The first few months of the year were always
challenging,” Ziegler, who’s been in the freight-logistics
business for about 12 years, said from his company’s offices in
Racine,  Wisconsin . “Historically, January and February are slow
months. This year, it’s not that way at all. We’ve got a lot
more positive reception to our sales calls in the last few
months than we have in past years.”  Employment gains may help Americans dealing with higher
food and gasoline prices.  Some ‘Moderation’  “We could be experiencing a bit of moderation at this
point,”  Anthony Nieves , chairman of the ISM services survey,
said on a conference call with reporters. “Fuel prices
definitely impacted prices paid across the board.”  Nieves also said that companies will “see more fallout and
impact” from  Japan  in coming months.  Economists at IHS  Global Insight  in Lexington,
 Massachusetts , today were the latest to cut forecasts for U.S.
growth over the first half of the year, reflecting the jump in
food and fuel costs and the possible disruptions following the
earthquake in Japan. The reductions come on the heels of similar
moves by economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  The economy probably grew at a 2.3 percent annual rate
last quarter, a percentage point less than IHS Global Insight
previously estimated, according to a note from  Nigel Gault , the
firm’s chief U.S. economist.  “The recovery will withstand the twin shocks from higher
 oil prices  and the natural disaster in Japan, as long as they do
not worsen,” Gault wrote. “But, the economy will not escape
the twin shocks unscathed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  