-- 
LivingSocial Is Said to Raise $400 Million to Fuel Coupon Site's Expansio

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-04-05T21:15:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/livingsocial-is-said-to-raise-400-million-to-fuel-coupon-site-s-expansion.html
LivingSocial, the second-largest
website devoted to daily coupons, raised $400 million to fuel
expansion in its quest to overtake Groupon Inc., according to
two people with knowledge of the funding.  The investment values the company at about $3 billion, said
the people, who requested anonymity because the transaction was
private.  The investors included  Institutional Venture Partners  --
backers of Twitter Inc. -- as well as T. Rowe Price Group Inc.
and earlier funders Amazon.com Inc. and Lightspeed Venture
Partners, the people said. The market for daily deals is heating
up, with larger rival  Groupon  said to be considering an initial
public offering that could value it at as much as $25 billion.  “This is a land grab and an opportunity to dominate a
high-growth market,” said Todd Chaffee, a partner at
Institutional Venture Partners. “You essentially have a rivalry
that’s shaping up to look like Coke and Pepsi’s.”  Before completing the transaction,  Washington , D.C.-based
 LivingSocial  had authorized the sale of up to 100 million shares
of Series E stock at $5.65 a share, according to a March 31
filing with the Delaware Secretary of State.  LivingSocial, which may generate $1 billion in revenue this
year, plans to use the money to hire staff and make
acquisitions, the people said. The company will more than triple
its employees this year to 1,800, Chief Executive Officer Tim
O’Shaughnessy said in December, and expects to more than double
the number of cities where it offers deals to 400. Groupon
serves about 500 cities and has more than 3,000 employees.  Maire Griffin, a LivingSocial spokeswoman, declined to
comment on specific details of the transaction. The investment
was reported earlier by the New York Times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  