-- 
Arbitrage-Fueled Rally Spurred by Banorte's Purchase of Ixe: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-04-05T23:12:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/ixe-s-arbitrage-fueled-rally-spurred-by-purchase-mexico-credit.html
Ixe Grupo Financiero SAB, the Mexico
City-based bank that serves high-income clients, is beating
peers in the  bond market  as its acquisition by Grupo Financiero
Banorte SAB sparks  credit-rating  increases.  Ixe’s dollar bonds due in 2020 returned 13.8 percent since
their October sale, compared with a 0.3 percent gain for Mexican
corporate notes and a 0.5 percent loss for Latin American
financial company debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Credit Suisse Group AG. Ixe’s bonds
yield 89 basis points, or 0.89 percentage point, more than
similar-maturity Banorte debt, down from 200 in November.  Investors are betting yields will converge after
shareholders approved on March 30 the purchase by Banorte,
Mexico’s third-largest bank by loans. S&P boosted Ixe’s ranking
two levels to BBB- that day, putting it in line with Banorte.
Fitch upgraded Ixe to Banorte’s BBB level today, from BB.  “Anytime I see the bonds, I pick them up,” said Carlos Legaspy, who manages about $300 million in emerging-market debt,
including Ixe debt, at  San Diego , California-based Precise
Investment Management. “You’re getting acquired by a big,
higher-rated bank, so you’re going to converge toward a higher
rating. It’s pure ratings arbitrage.”  Ixe yields have tumbled 145 basis points to 7.28 percent in
the months since they were issued in October while Banorte
yields declined to 6.39 percent. The average yield on the
government’s dollar bonds rose 67 basis points over that time to
4.9 percent, according to JPMorgan.  Espresso Bars  Mexico’s antitrust agency gave the companies clearance on
Feb. 4 to close the deal.  “We expect that other  ratings agencies  will also lift
their credit rating on Ixe to the same level as Banorte,” said
David Suarez, head of  investor relations  at Banorte, speaking a
day before Fitch followed S&P in upgrading the company. “We
would be surprised if it didn’t happen.”  Rene Ibarra, an analyst with  Fitch Ratings  in Monterrey,
didn’t respond to four messages left with his secretary.  Banorte and Ixe announced plans for the acquisition on Oct.
19, the same month that Monterrey-based Banorte named former
Mexican central bank Governor Guillermo Ortiz as chairman. The
takeover allows the smaller Ixe to leverage the larger bank’s
capital to expand its business model, which includes
personalized service at clients’ home or office and branches
equipped with espresso bars, according to Martin Gonzalez, an
equity analyst at Invex Casa de Bolsa in Mexico City.  Default Swaps  “This gives them the solidity of a bigger bank,” Gonzalez
said in a telephone interview. “At the end of the day, the risk
will be the same. On the Banorte side, they’re entering into a
niche market that they haven’t been able to get into before.”  Ixe spokesman Rene Pimentel didn’t return telephone calls
seeking comment.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican corporate
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  rose 1 basis point
yesterday to 280, according to JPMorgan. The gap between Mexican
government dollar bonds and Treasuries narrowed 3 basis points
today to 129.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years dropped 1 basis point to 100 today, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  The peso advanced 0.3 percent today to 11.81805 per dollar,
extending its advance this year to 4.6 percent.  ‘Poor’ Profitability  Ixe stock has rallied 16 percent since the acquisition
announcement. Banorte stock has gained 18 percent in the period.  Standard & Poor’s  said March 30 that it boosted Ixe’s
rating because the bank gains “financial flexibility” from the
acquisition and may see its “poor” profitability improve.  “We expect that operational synergies within the new
financial group, coupled with its sound asset quality--requiring
low provisioning--could bear fruit in 2011,” S&P analysts led
by Arturo Sanchez wrote.  Ixe posted a net loss of 127.5 million pesos in the fourth
quarter, compared with a profit of 521 million pesos a year
earlier. Banorte’s profit climbed 17 percent in the same period
to 1.76 billion pesos.  “Banorte can really take the Ixe brand and take the niche
that they have and expand it,” Legaspy said. “Banorte is much
more of a retail-oriented bank whereas Ixe has been focused on
higher-income customers. Banorte can really expand that brand
where Ixe couldn’t do it on its own.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  