-- 
J&J, Bayer’s Xarelto Curbs Clots, Raises Risk of Bleeding

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-04-05T20:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/j-j-bayer-s-xarelto-curbs-clots-raises-bleeding-risk-in-study.html
Johnson & Johnson and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s
experimental pill Xarelto was no better than a standard
injection to prevent blood clots in critically ill hospital
patients, and it raised bleeding rates in a study.  A second analysis found giving Xarelto for more than 10
days cut clots in the legs and lungs by 23 percent, according to
the study, which was presented today at the  American College of
Cardiology ’s annual meeting in  New Orleans . Longer use more than
doubled the risk of major bleeding compared with patients given
a placebo after the standard 10 days of treatment with Sanofi-
Aventis SA’s Lovenox.  The results call into question the drug’s approval in
acutely ill patients, a market that could have reached $2.8
billion in sales, said  Larry Biegelsen , a Wells Fargo Securities
analyst in  New York . It’s not clear if patients will benefit
from longer treatment, said Robert Califf, a cardiologist and
vice chancellor for clinical research at  Duke University  Medical
Center in Durham, North Carolina.  “I don’t think many people are going to rush out to start
anti-coagulants in patients with pneumonia or acute respiratory
distress syndrome,” said Califf, who has conducted other
studies of Xarelto, in an interview. “But it’s a big market and
mortality rates are high.”  Share Slump  Bayer sank 2.06 euros, or 3.6 percent, to 54.65 euros at
the close of Frankfurt trading, the biggest decline since June
29. J&J dropped 35 cents, less than 1 percent, to $59.80 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  is evaluating the findings and hasn’t
decided whether to seek marketing approval for hospitalized
patients, said Peter DiBattiste, vice president of
cardiovascular development at the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based company.  Sanofi’s Lovenox, which is losing patent protection,
generates about 1.4 billion euros ($2 billion) for high-risk
hospitalized patients, said  Jack Scannell , an analyst with
Bernstein Research in London, in a March 31 note to investors.
Xarelto is awaiting U.S. regulatory approval for preventing
strokes in heart patients and clots after surgery, an even
bigger market, he said.  The findings don’t change Bayer’s forecast that Xarelto
will bring in more than 2 billion euros in annual sales, said
Frank Misselwitz, head of Bayer’s cardiovascular unit, in an
interview. The partners are in discussions with the European
Medicines Agency in  London  and other regulators, he said.  Risk of Clots  The study involved 8,101 patients with limited mobility
because of infections, heart failure, breathing difficulties,
stroke and cancer. The lack of movement during a hospital stay
puts patients at an 8-fold increased risk for blood clots,
according to Johnson & Johnson, and those patients account for
almost one-quarter of the potentially deadly clots.  More than 200,000 people in the U.S. develop the clots
known as venous thromboembolism each year, according to the
Dallas-based  American Heart Association . Nine percent of those
with clots in the legs die within a month, as do 15 percent with
clots that lodge in the lungs, according to a 2004  study  in the
 American Journal of Medicine .  The new trial, dubbed Magellan, found 2.7 percent of
patients getting either Xarelto or Lovenox for 10 days developed
a blood clot or died as a complication of one. Almost all of the
clots were found using ultrasound scans before they started
causing symptoms. Bleeding that required medical care occurred
in 2.8 percent of Xarelto patients, compared with 1.2 percent of
those taking Lovenox.  Lovenox  After 35 days of Xarelto, 4.4 percent of patients had the
clots, compared with 5.7 percent of patients who got Lovenox for
10 days, then placebo. The bleeding risk was 4.1 percent with
Xarelto, compared with 1.7 percent for the Lovenox group. Most
of the bleeding was detected with laboratory tests rather than
symptoms, or stemmed from the need for a transfusion.  Johnson & Johnson is trying to identify patients who may be
at higher risk for bleeding to help control the unwanted
effects, DiBattiste said in an interview.  “We have demonstrated efficacy and we want to understand
better how the risks and benefits play out,” he said. “We need
to do a deeper dive.”  When researchers designed the trial three years ago, they
considered it a “blue-sky scenario” to think all patients
would require Xarelto, Misselwitz said. “This was quite a
realistic outcome that only certain patients would require it.”  Tempering Risk  Patients immobilized in the hospital are at high risk,
especially after they are discharged, and Xarelto may help lower
the chances of a complication, said Richard Becker, director of
Duke University’s cardiovascular thrombosis center in Durham,
 North Carolina .  “When very sick patients seem to be recovering, nothing is
worse than a setback with a pulmonary embolism or deep vein
thrombosis” caused by blood clots that lodge in the lungs or
legs, said Becker, who wasn’t involved in the study. “This may
be a way to temper that risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  