-- 
Japan May Restrict Power Use as Summer Worsens Shortages

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-04-06T01:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/japan-may-restrict-power-use-as-summer-worsens-shortages.html
Japan ’s government said it may
impose legal limits to electric power use as policy makers
prepare for shortages that are likely to worsen as the summer
approaches.  Energy-supply constraints due to the damage to the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant following last month’s
earthquake and tsunami mean the step must be considered, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said yesterday.  “We want to ask companies to reduce their electricity use,
especially during the peak, in a way that won’t affect their
business,” Edano told reporters at a press conference in  Tokyo .
“Before we resort to forcible measures, we must first ask for
cooperation that would impose minimal disruption. We will then
consider other measures.”  Companies including Toyota Motor Corp. and Sony Corp.
halted output after last month’s disaster devastated the
northeast, disrupting supply chains and forcing power
conservation. With analysts forecasting a drop in gross domestic
product in the second quarter of the year, a prolonged
electricity deficit would risk extending the contraction.  “This shortage is extremely damaging to the economy,”
said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in
Tokyo. “We’ll see a lot of investment once reconstruction gets
under way, but we’re not going to get much growth until we solve
this electricity problem.”  Hot Summer  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the operator of the damaged
Fukushima nuclear power plant 220 kilometers (137 miles) north
of Tokyo, expects a shortage of 8.5 million kilowatts this
summer as seasonal demand may peak at about 55 million kilowatts.  Tepco, as the utility is known, began rolling blackouts to
avoid bigger outages after the earthquake. The Dai-Ichi plant
generated almost ten percent of the energy of the Kanto region,
which includes Tokyo and contains about a third of Japan’s 127
million people.  Production levels probably wouldn’t be lowered by the same
amount as the cuts to power, as factories juggle their operating
hours, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “We would expect firms to adapt by shifting production to
early morning, late night, and holidays, increasing output in
other parts of the country, and rotating production,” Chiwoong
Lee, an economist at Goldman in Tokyo, wrote in a note today.
Lee also said potential surcharges to households for electricity
would have a limited impact on Japan’s core inflation rate. A 10
percent higher charge would cause a 0.03 percentage point boost
to the  consumer price index  excluding fresh food, he calculated.  Generator Demand  Portable power generators made by Honda Motor Co., Fuji
Heavy Industries Ltd. and Yamaha Motor Co. are running out after
Japan’s largest-ever earthquake crippled production while also
stoking demand. Orders for the generators, used in providing
baths and meals to survivors of the temblor and ensuing tsunami,
surged after the disaster knocked out power plants.  Tokyo Steel Manufacturing Co., the country’s largest
electric-furnace mill, is among businesses shifting production
west after facilities were shut by the earthquake and the
nation’s capital and surrounding region continued to face power
disruptions.  Other manufacturers may choose to relocate abroad
altogether if they lose stable access to power and face higher
electricity bills, exacerbating an exodus of factory jobs in
recent years, according to Ken Medlock, a professor of energy
and resource economics at  Rice University  in  Texas .  “Energy costs in some of these industries is a major
proportion of total input expense,” Medlock said. “You could
see a substantial impact, and it’s going to affect the  auto
industry  and all the major export industries. It affects their
competitiveness.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  