-- 
Japan Banking Lobby Urges Kan to Unveil Tepco Rescue Plan

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-04-06T00:39:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/japan-banking-lobby-s-oku-urges-kan-to-unveil-tepco-rescue-plan.html
Japan  should develop a plan to
provide financial support for Tokyo Electric Power Co. before
banks including  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  resume
lending to the owner of the crippled nuclear plant, the nation’s
banking lobby said.  “We need to wait until the government clarifies how it
will help Tokyo Electric,” particularly in the area of
compensation for victims of the nuclear accident, Masayuki Oku,
head of the Japanese Bankers Association, said in an interview
in Tokyo yesterday. “We would provide financial assistance if
the soundness of the company is maintained by a public rescue.”  Oku is also chairman of Sumitomo Mitsui, which led a group
of Japanese banks that lent about 2 trillion yen ($24 billion)
to  Tokyo Electric , money that he said the utility will use to
finance operations rather than to pay for damages. Neither Tepco,
as the company is known, nor the government has revealed who
should compensate citizens and businesses after radiation leaked
from the plant forced evacuations and tainted food and seawater.  The utility’s market value has plunged 86 percent since a
March 11 earthquake and tsunami damaged the nuclear plant’s
cooling equipment, resulting in a partial meltdown. Tokyo-based
Tepco faces claims of as much as 11 trillion yen if the crisis
lasts two years, and that could lead to nationalization,
according to Bank of America Corp.  “No one wants to see Tepco to go bankrupt,” said Ben Wedmore, a Tokyo-based analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd.
One option “may be that Tepco would issue enormous amounts of
new shares and the government would then buy most of them. The
government can hold them for a while until the price of Tepco
shares stabilize, and then sell them to other investors.”  Faces Claims  The utility has been battling to stop the radiation leaks
and control damaged reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station
220 kilometers (137 miles) north of  Tokyo . Engineers and
analysts have said damaged reactors may take three decades to
decommission and cost Tepco more than 1 trillion yen.  Tokyo Electric fell 15 percent to 306 yen at 9:36 a.m.
local time, reducing its market value to 486.9 billion yen. The
company has 5 trillion yen of debt, making it the fourth-biggest
borrower among members of the Nikkei 225 Stock Average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Under Japanese law on nuclear damages, the utility is
required to carry liability insurance of about 120 billion yen.
The government also compensates victims if the accident is
caused by a natural disaster.  Can’t Absorb Losses  “It is highly possible that the government covers a
certain portion of compensation as a measure aimed at securing
power supply and avoid any disarray,” Yusuke Ueda, a credit
analyst at Merrill, wrote in his March 29 note. “Tokyo Electric
would be unable to absorb the losses even after a capital
reduction and debt-to-equity swap of state-guaranteed debt.”  Power supply shortages could cut industrial output and
shrink the economy, Oku said. Tepco’s supplying area -- Tokyo
and eight surrounding prefectures -- covers 40 percent of the
country’s gross domestic product and takes about 50 percent of
overall lending, he said.  The electricity shortfall and adverse effects from
radioactivity contamination may cut at least 1.5 percent, or 7
trillion yen, from Japan’s GDP in the year ending March 2012,
 Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc., said by telephone yesterday.  Loans to Tepco  Sumitomo Mitsui’s banking unit is the sixth-largest
shareholder in Tepco, with a 2.2 percent stake, according to
Bloomberg data. It topped the list of lending to the utility
with 600 billion yen, followed by 500 billion yen from Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. and 300 billion yen from Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., three people familiar with the agreements
said on April 4.  Tepco plans to use the funds to cover costs of stabilizing
reactors at the nuclear plant, and expenses for fuels that are
burned at thermal power generators to help reduce electricity
supply shortages, Tsunehisa Katsumata, chairman of the utility,
told reporters on March 30.  Katsumata said his company is short of funds and in talks
with Japan’s government to deal with the situation, without
elaborating.  The  Bank of Japan  decided not to exclude Tokyo Electric’s
debt from eligibility for a corporate-bond auction scheduled for
today even after the company’s credit rating was lowered, two
people with knowledge of the matter said. Tepco was cut to BBB+
from A+ by  Standard & Poor’s  on April 1.  The BOJ said on Oct. 28 it would buy bonds rated BBB or
higher with a remaining maturity of between one and two years as
part of a plan to boost liquidity and stimulate the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 