-- 
Japanese Bonds Fall, Yields Approach 4-Week High on Weaker Yen, U.S. Jobs

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-04-06T06:31:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/japan-s-bonds-may-decline-on-yen-at-six-month-low-u-s-employment-data.html
Japan ’s 10-year bonds fell, pushing
yields toward a four-week high, as the yen’s slump to a six-
month low and prospects for an improving U.S. job market reduced
demand for the safety of government debt.  Bond futures dropped for the first time this week as the
yen failed to gain for a 10th day against the dollar, supporting
the earnings outlook for exporters. The extra yield investors
demand to hold two-year Treasuries instead of similar-maturity
Japanese notes has tripled in the past five months amid signs
the  U.S. economy  is gaining momentum.  “With the rising yields in the U.S., a continued weakening
of the yen will prompt investors to take a fresh look at
Treasury investment because it brings a far higher return,”
said  Susumu Kato , chief economist for Japan in  Tokyo  at Credit
Agricole CIB and CLSA. “I’m bearish” on Japanese bonds.  The 10-year yield increased three basis points to 1.295
percent as of 3:25 p.m. at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent security due
March 2021 fell 0.265 yen to 100.044 yen. The yield reached
1.305 percent yesterday, the most since March 10.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery dropped 0.29 to
138.98 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The yen fell to as low as 85.53 per dollar today, the
lowest level since Sept. 21. A weaker local currency makes
Japanese products cheaper outside the country and boosts the
value of exporters’ overseas earnings when repatriated.  ‘Risk On’  “The yen’s substantial weakening against the dollar
results from expectations for a global economic recovery and
risk-on  market sentiment ,” Makoto Noji, a senior debt and
foreign-exchange strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in
Tokyo, wrote in a report today. “A weaker yen is emerging as a
new selling catalyst for bonds.”  The number of Americans filing for  unemployment benefits 
dropped by 3,000 last week to the lowest in more than a month,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists before the Labor
Department report tomorrow.  The yield spread between two-year Treasuries and Japanese
government notes with a similar maturity was 60 basis points
today, compared with a low of 18 basis points on Nov. 3. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  End to Stimulus?  Ten-year Treasury yields were little changed after rising
six basis points to 3.48 percent in  New York . Minutes released
yesterday of the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting showed policy
makers differed over whether to begin removing stimulus measures
after a $600 billion bond-purchase program ends.  “A few participants indicated that economic conditions
might warrant a move toward less-accommodative monetary policy
this year,” the Fed’s Open Market Committee said in minutes of
its March 15 meeting. “A few others noted that exceptional
policy accommodation could be appropriate beyond 2011.”  Losses in bonds were tempered on bets the Bank of Japan
will maintain its easing stance to aid the nation’s recovery
from a March 11 earthquake that triggered a deadly tsunami and
radiation leaks at a power plant north of Tokyo.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his policy board started
a two-day meeting in Tokyo today. The central bank is
considering offering a credit program to encourage banks to lend
to companies with cash-flow shortages, people familiar with the
matter told Bloomberg News.  “Because it’s unimaginable the  Bank of Japan  will tighten
monetary policy, there is confidence that shorter bond yields
won’t rise,” said  Ayako Sera , a strategist in Tokyo at Sumitomo
Trust & Banking Co., which manages about $331 billion in assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 