-- 
Katarina Witt Confident Munich Will Get Yes Vote for 2018 Winter Olympics

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-05T11:59:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/katarina-witt-confident-munich-will-get-yes-vote-for-2018-winter-olympics.html
Katarina Witt, the two-time Olympic
figure-skating champion who is leading  Munich’s bid for the 2018
Winter Games , says she’s confident that local residents will
vote in favor of the event in a referendum.  On May 8, about 22,000 inhabitants of the Bavarian mountain
resort of  Garmisch-Partenkirchen  will be eligible to vote on
whether they want another  Olympic Games .  Munich is competing with Annecy,  France , and Pyeongchang,
 South Korea , to host the Games, with the International Olympic
Committee voting July 6 in Durban,  South Africa . Garmisch would
host the skiing events in 2018, should Munich win the bid.  “We’re quite positive about the outcome,” Witt said in an
interview with reporters at the  Sport Accord  conference in
 London  today. “We have a lot people supporting the pro-
Olympic” movement.  The referendum has occasionally come up during discussions
with members of the IOC, 40 of whom are attending Sport Accord
in London, Witt said.  “They ask, of course, because it’s been ongoing since the
summer,” she said. “But in general, you will always have
people who are against a big event, against innovation. So they
know how to judge it. We are open about it. There is nothing to
hide, it’s just part of our culture in our country. It’s
democracy and people are allowed to express their opinions.”  Witt said she is confident of a positive outcome because of
the passion for winter sports in  Germany . More than one million
spectators attended various sports event in the Garmisch area in
the past season, ranging from skiing to ice hockey.  Land Dispute  Witt said a previous dispute with local landowners in
Garmisch-Partenkirchen about a piece of land had been “solved”
before the FIS Alpine Ski World Championships that took place in
the resort in February.  Witt, 45, became the public face of the Munich 2018 bid in
September after bid chief Willy Bogner stepped down because of
illness.  Garmisch and Munich have hosted Olympic events before, each
bearing painful memories. Garmisch was the scene of the 1936
Winter Games, when the Nazi regime used the event to portray the
image of a peaceful Germany.  Munich, which is seeking to become the first city to host
both the Olympic summer and  winter games , was the scene of the
1972  Summer Olympics , where 11 members of the Israeli team were
killed by the Black September terror group. The IOC was
criticized for allowing the competition to go on after the
murders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  