-- 
KB Home Drops to Four-Month Low as Quarterly Loss Widens on Order Decline

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-04-05T20:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/kb-home-reports-wider-first-quarter-loss-as-revenue-and-orders-plunged.html
KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based
homebuilder that targets first-time buyers, fell to its lowest
price in four months in New York trading after reporting a
bigger-than-expected loss as orders plunged.  The net loss for the quarter ended Feb. 28 widened to $1.49
a share from 71 cents a year earlier, the company said today in
a statement. Analysts predicted a loss of 30 cents a share, the
average of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. homebuilders are struggling with competition from
lower-priced distressed properties and weak demand as
unemployment hovers close to 9 percent. KB Home has communities
in some of the markets hardest-hit by foreclosures, including
 Las Vegas , Riverside County in  California  and Phoenix.  “This was a poor quarter for KBH with very weak margins
and orders that were well below expectations,” Adam Rudiger, an
analyst with Wells Fargo Securities in  San Francisco , said in a
note to clients.  KB Home fell 51 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $11.69 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
lost 31 percent in the past 12 months, compared with the 12
percent decrease by the Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index.  The company plans to boost revenue this year by opening new
communities, Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said during
a call with analysts. KB Home opened 33 developments in the
first quarter and plans to start 40 in the second quarter.  New-Home Sales  “We do not anticipate a net profit for 2011,” Mezger
said. “However, we maintain that our operating strategy has us
positioned to achieve profitability at some point later in
2011.”  Sales of new U.S. homes plunged 16.9 percent in February to
a record-low annual pace, the Commerce Department said March 23.
The median price for a new house dropped 8.9 percent from a year
earlier to lowest in more than seven years.  KB Home’s net loss of $114.5 million included an impairment
charge of $53.7 million and a loss on a loan guaranty of $22.8
million, both related to the company’s investment in a
development in Henderson,  Nevada , the statement said.  Revenue declined 25 percent from a year earlier to $196.9
million and net orders slid 32 percent to 1,302. The company
delivered 949 homes in the quarter, down 28 percent from the
same period in 2010.  Tighter Credit Requirements  The year-ago orders were boosted by government tax credits
valued at as much as $8,000 for first-time homebuyers. The
incentive was originally set to expire in November 2009 and
later was extended for contracts signed by April 30.  KB Home, which focused early in the real estate slump on
smaller, more efficiently designed houses, is competing with
rivals who are also appealing to entry-level buyers, said Demir Gjokaj, an analyst with New York-based ITG Investment Research
Inc. That task has grown more difficult because lenders are
tightening credit requirements, he said.  “There’s two things hobbling them: exposure to the West
and exposure to the first-time homebuyer segment,” Gjokaj said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 