-- 
Nationwide Says Fewer Teen Drivers May Crimp Insurance-Premium Revenue

-- B y   S o p e n   S h a h
-- 
2011-04-05T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/nationwide-says-fewer-teen-drivers-may-crimp-insurance-premium-revenue.html
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co., the
fourth-biggest U.S. auto insurer owned by policyholders, said
more parents delaying when teenagers can start driving may
reduce premium revenue.  A survey conducted for Nationwide found that almost one in
three parents cited costs associated with teen driving,
including insurance, as a top concern, and one in seven said
they will delay allowing their child to drive, the Columbus,
Ohio-based firm said in a statement set for release today.  U.S. households with teen drivers pay an average of $3,100
a year for expenses including insurance and gas, and parents
have pared entertainment spending or required children to find
jobs to help with the bills, Nationwide said. Adding a teenager
to an insurance policy can increase premiums by 50 percent to
100 percent, according to a report last month by the  Insurance
Information Institute , an industry trade group.  “Assuming that customers do delay, there would be fewer
accidents,” Larry Thursby, vice president of auto product and
pricing at Nationwide, said in an interview yesterday.
“Revenues would be down and profitability would be up.”  The percentage of Nationwide policies with teenage drivers
has declined 6.9 percent since 2008, the company said. Today,
about 5.4 percent of the insurer’s 4 million auto policies cover
teenage motorists, it said.  Unemployment,  Gas Prices   “With high unemployment, concerns over rising gas prices
and inflation, plus the cost of auto insurance for young
drivers, the expense of getting a teen behind the wheel is
greater than ever,” Nationwide said in the statement.  About 31 percent of 16-year-olds were licensed to drive in
2009, compared with 37 percent in 1999, according to the  Federal
Highway Administration . Drivers as a percentage of the  U.S.
population , excluding children under age 14, increased from 72
percent to 86 percent.  The percentage of revenue from personal auto premiums has
decreased from 2006 to 2010 for insurers including Geico Corp.,
a unit of Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , and
 Chubb Corp. (CB) , based in Warren,  New Jersey , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The online survey of 1,483 parents with driving-age teens
was conducted by  Harris Interactive Inc. (HPOL) , a New York-based
polling and research firm, between Dec. 10 and Jan. 5, according
to Nationwide.  (Sopen Shah is an analyst for Bloomberg Government.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sopen Shah in Washington at 
 sshah290@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  