-- 
NATO Blamed as Libyan Rebels Flee Assault By Qaddafi Forces

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-04-06T10:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/nato-gets-blamed-as-libyan-rebels-flee-brega-assault-by-qaddafi-s-forces.html
Libyan rebels retreated under heavy
fire from the central oil port of Brega, prompting their top
commander to lash out at NATO for not doing enough to stop
artillery attacks by Muammar Qaddafi’s forces.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization is slow “in
responding to our instructions” on targets and is failing to
“give us what we need,” Abdel Fattah Younes, head of the rebel
army and Qaddafi’s former interior minister, said at a press
conference in Benghazi broadcast on Al Jazeera television. He
was particularly critical of the alliance for failing to stop
Qaddafi’s weeks-long siege of Misrata, the rebel-held western
city near Tripoli that has been the scene of repeated attacks.  NATO officials denied reducing their air patrols since the
U.S. handed off command to the 28-nation alliance and withdrew
its  Libya  operations strike aircraft from April 5. Rebels and
loyalists have been fighting running battles on the coastal road
between the Qaddafi stronghold of Sirte and the rebel-held
gateway city of Ajdabiyah.  French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe called the situation on
the ground “confused” and said coalition pilots are having
difficulty identifying targets because both sides are using the
same types of pick-up trucks. The coalition isn’t ready to arm
rebel forces, he said today on France Info radio.  NATO Assets  The alliance’s commander “has the assets he needs to
execute his mission,” Brigadier General Mark van Uhm of the
Netherlands told reporters in Brussels yesterday. He said
attacks by the U.S. and allies have destroyed nearly a third of
Qaddafi’s heavy weapons, according to the  Associated Press .  Qaddafi has sent a message to President  Barack Obama 
following what the Libyan leader termed “the withdrawal of
America from the crusader colonial alliance against Libya,”
Britain’s Telegraph newspaper said, citing Libya’s official news
agency JANA. It gave no further details about the message. The
newspaper also reported that NATO has asked the U.K. to deploy
more jets for Libya operations to make up for a shortfall after
the U.S. pullout.  Fourteen airstrikes by NATO jets on April 4 targeted air-
defense systems and tanks of the regime in Misrata as well as a
rocket-launcher in Brega, van Uhm said.  Oil Rises  Oil traded near its highest price in 30 months for a second
day. Crude for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
was up 8 cents at $108.42 at 11:02 a.m. London time. The
contract traded as high as $108.78 a barrel on April 4, the
highest front-month price since Sept. 24, 2008.  A resident of Misrata speaking by phone said that tank
shelling had abated.  “It’s been relatively quiet today, however there are some
clashes in the center of the city,” said the resident, who
identified himself as Mountasser. “Tank shelling has stopped
but snipers are around.”  Libyan rebels were preparing to make their first
international oil sale as the tanker Equator, which can carry 1
million barrels, arrived at the Marsa al Hariga terminal near
the port of Tobruk in opposition-controlled eastern Libya
yesterday, according to AISLive Ltd. ship-tracking data compiled
by Bloomberg. The cargo may bring more than $100 million for the
rebels.  Capturing Brega is crucial for the rebels because its
refinery could boost the opposition’s control of oil in the
east. The rebels’  national council  said April 1 that it had
reached a deal to have Qatar help market Libyan oil, with
proceeds going toward food, fuel, medicine and other uses.
Italian oil company  Eni SpA (ENI)  has been in contact with the Libyan
rebels now that  Italy  has recognized the council.  Diplomatic Overtures  European governments have repeatedly said that Qaddafi, 68,
must end his 42-year rule and have rejected diplomatic overtures
from the Libyan government, which on April 4 called for an
“international dialogue” to resolve the conflict.  “We’ve got half a plan at the moment,” Richard Dannatt,
the U.K.’s former chief of the General Staff, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “Success equates to when
Qaddafi is gone. That’s what they can’t say. That’s what we’ve
got to do, though.”  So far France, Qatar and Italy have recognized the rebels
as Libya’s legitimate government, with Kuwait saying it is
prepared to do so. The U.S. and the U.K., which have contacts
with the rebels, haven’t formally recognized the opposition.  The U.S. military pulled out its fighter jets after an
April 4 mission over Libya, carrying out a pledge by Obama to
hand over most military missions to NATO and its allies. The
U.S. will keep attack aircraft on standby and resume flights if
necessary, while U.S. command-and-control aircraft and Navy
ships remain in action.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  