-- 
Natural Gas Falls a Third Day in New York on Forecasts for Milder Weather

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-04-05T19:26:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/natural-gas-falls-a-third-day-in-new-york-on-forecasts-for-milder-weather.html
Natural gas futures declined for a
third day, the longest losing streak in a month, as warmer-than-
normal weather reduces demand for the heating fuel.  Gas fell 1.4 percent as forecasters including MDA EarthSat
Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said the mid-Atlantic region
has a good chance of temperatures soaring far above normal next
week. U.S. heating demand will be 19 percent lower than average
from tomorrow through April 12, according to Weather Derivatives
in Belton, Missouri.  “The market realized that winter is over and we are
getting into a low-demand shoulder season,” said  James Williams , an economist at WTRG Economics, an energy research
firm in  London , Arkansas.  Natural gas for May delivery fell 5.8 cents to settle at
$4.231 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Gas last had a three-day losing streak at
the start of March. The futures have declined 4 percent this
year.  The Atlantic coast from  Massachusetts  to Florida may be
warmer than normal from April 15 to April 19, according to
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  Cool air may return to the northern U.S. from the Pacific
Northwest to the  Great Lakes  during the same period, according
to  Matt Rogers , president of  Commodity Weather .  Mild Weather  The high temperature in New York will be 66 degrees
Fahrenheit (19 Celsius) on April 11, 7 degrees above normal,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.
Washington will have a high of 74 degrees.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  “Weather patterns have shifted considerably, with a mostly
warmer-than-normal outlook replacing colder-than-normal
temperatures realized over the end of March,” James R. Crandell, an analyst with  Barclays Capital  in  New York , said in
a note to clients today.  The department may say on April 7 that gas stockpiles
slipped 52 billion cubic feet in the week ended April 1,
according to the median of 10 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The five-year average for the week is an increase of
13 billion.  U.S. gas inventories rose 12 billion cubic feet in the week
ended March 25 to 1.624 trillion cubic feet, the Energy
Department reported last week.  The stockpile gain compared with a five-year average
withdrawal for the week of 22 billion cubic feet, department
data show. A surplus to the five-year average rose to 4.4
percent from 2.2 percent the previous week.  Gas Rigs  U.S. gas drilling rigs rose 11 to 891 last week, the
secondly weekly gain, according to Houston-based Baker Hughes
Inc. Rising rigs indicate higher production in the future.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
200,552 as of 2:41 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 318,000. Volume was 284,345 yesterday. Open interest was
909,549 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
892,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  