-- 
NY Fed Says Swaps Industry Failed to Meet Clearing Promises

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-04-05T15:32:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/new-york-fed-s-dudley-says-swaps-industry-failed-to-meet-clearing-promises.html
Wall Street’s largest banks and
money managers failed to fulfill commitments made a year ago to
enable swaps customers to use clearinghouses to back trades,
said New York Federal Reserve Bank President  William Dudley .  The Fed will respond by creating its own group to compel
swaps dealers,  hedge funds  and clearinghouses to meet regulatory
goals, he said in a statement today.  “The industry did not meet their prior commitment to
provide a viable clearing solution for clients,” Dudley said in
the statement. “To ensure that these discussions result in
timely and material progress, the supervisors will establish a
working group” that “will work through these issues to their
resolution,” he said.  The industry group of banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , and investment firms such as BlueMountain
Capital Management LLC and Pacific Investment Management Co.
said 13 months ago that “substantial work” remained before
credit derivatives dealers and their biggest customers can
regularly move trades into clearinghouses designed to curb risks
to the financial system, according to a statement at the time.  The money managers involved in the OTC Derivatives
Supervisors Group refused to agree to specific goals because of
concerns that cleared trades would be protected under bankruptcy
laws and the cost of backing trades with collateral, people
familiar with the matter said at the time. Last year, the New
York Fed set a March 1 deadline requiring the group to outline
the industry’s next steps to move swaps through clearinghouses.  Contain Losses  While the New York Fed prodded JPMorgan,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other dealers into clearing more
than 90 percent of eligible trades between banks by the end of
2009, their clients are resisting on concern that the potential
added costs would outweigh benefits. Clearinghouses are designed
to contain losses if a major dealer or investor collapses.  The New York Fed has led regulators including the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority and
 Germany ’s Federal Financial Supervisory Authority in seeking
increased transparency and less risk from over-the-counter
derivatives markets. Some $583 trillion in contracts were
outstanding at the end of June 2010, according to the  Bank for
International Settlements .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 