-- 
Nicolas Correa Sees Profit in Years Ahead on China Demand

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-04-05T09:55:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/nicolas-correa-sees-profit-in-years-ahead-on-china-demand-1-.html
Nicolas Correa SA (NEA) ,  Spain ’s biggest
maker of milling machines, predicts it will post profits in the
next few years on rising sales of  machine tools  in China,
Chairman Jose Ignacio Nicolas-Correa said.  “We expect to turn profitable in the second half of this
year and continue reporting net income for the next few years,”
Nicolas-Correa said in a phone interview yesterday. “The
environment remains challenging but the worst is over.”  The manufacturer forecasts its first full-year profit in
three years, as demand for milling equipment, used to shape
metals and other solids into components, benefits from stronger
sales of machine tools in countries including China.  Global purchases of machine tools are expected to climb 27
percent in 2011 from a year earlier and reach 78 billion euros
($111 billion) in 2014 compared with 42 billion euros in 2010,
the 62-year-old executive said.  The shares rose 3.6 percent to 2.16 euros at 11:33 a.m. in
Madrid trading, giving the Burgos, northern Spain-based company
a market value of 27 million euros. Spain’s  Ibex 35 index (IBEX)  fell
0.7 percent.  The company will at least double last year’s sales of 31.1
million euros, the chairman said. He declined to provide a
specific forecast for net income or earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Gross Margin  Nicolas Correa also expects to at least maintain its
current gross margin, which the chairman said is “well above 20
percent,” as it eliminates lower-margin products and customized
production. The company’s clients include components suppliers
for energy companies including Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA
and  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   The company said in a filing to regulators today that it
expects a gross margin of 31 percent and that its order book has
climbed 165 percent so far this year.  “All the orders are coming from foreign countries at the
moment,” Nicolas-Correa said. “The domestic market isn’t
recovering yet.”  Nicolas-Correa, whose father founded the company in 1947,
said he’s targeting full capacity this year as demand in  China ,
 India  and  Germany  grows.  Revenue at the company’s China unit will climb to more than
10 million euros from about 3 million euros last year, the
executive said. The company is planning a 1.5 million-euro
capital increase for the unit, based in Kunming, in the province
of Yunnan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  