-- 
Nigerian Election Violence Could Add to Crude Output Tightening

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-04-05T18:22:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/nigerian-election-violence-could-add-to-crude-output-tightening.html
Elections in Nigeria  may be followed
by decreased output from  Africa ’s top crude oil producer if
violence spreads, curbing supplies of light, sweet grades
already down because of fighting in Libya.  “The elections could be very tumultuous,” Helima Croft,
an analyst with  Barclays Capital , said in an e-mail. “You could
see some supply disruptions after the elections are over when
the bill for rigging them comes due.”  More than 50 people have died in election-related violence
in Nigeria since July, according to  Amnesty International , while
sectarian clashes in the north have claimed the lives of at
least 200 since Dec. 24.  Nigerian oil production dropped 850,000 barrels to 1.9
million barrels a day in March, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Field maintenance has been conducted recently and there aren’t
indications that militant activity has affected production, said
Stephen George, a Surrey, U.K.-based refining analyst at KBC
Market Services.  Presidential balloting will take place on April 16, with
state elections a week later.  Output from  Libya , previously Africa’s third-largest
producer, has slumped since fighting broke out six weeks ago
between rebels and forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi . Azeri Light
from  Azerbaijan  has been filling some of the gap, especially for
refineries in the Mediterranean, George wrote in an e-mail.  Wider Nigerian Impact  A sustained loss of Nigerian crudes would affect refiners
globally “far more widely than Libyan crudes,” he said.  “We really don’t see the market pricing Nigerian risk into
the equation yet, though that’s not saying that it won’t happen
if the situation destabilizes,” George said. “On top of the
Libyan outages, a Nigerian outage on the scale of the last
election would be a significant boost to other light, sweet
grades in the market.”  Crude oil rose to a 7-month-high settlement following the
last presidential election on April 21, 2007, gaining more than
$1.50 a barrel the day before the vote. Futures rose into the
next week as results were disputed and  Nigeria  increased the
official selling price of  Bonny Light  and Qua Iboe grades as
damage from militant attacks kept a quarter of production shut
in.  The underlying cause of militancy in the oil region has not
been addressed, including high unemployment, endemic corruption
and a lack of services, Croft said.  “Many of these well-armed, unemployed men may be looking
for a payout post-polls and demonstrating an ability to damage
the oil infrastructure is the best way to get one,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 