-- 
North African Cooking Oil Imports Slow on Prices, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-04-05T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/north-african-cooking-oil-imports-slow-on-prices-oil-world-says.html
Cooking oil imports by north African
countries slowed in the first quarter because of high prices,
Oil World said.  Imports into north  Africa  for the period probably totaled
766,000 metric tons, down 3.6 percent from the first quarter
last year, Hamburg-based Oil World said in a report today. Their
purchases of oils and fats in the marketing year that started
Oct. 1 will fall for a second year to 3.1 million tons, it said.  “Near-record prices have taken their toll on consumption
and import demand,” according to the report. “There has been a
distinct shift of imports from sunflower oil to soya oil.”  Soybean oil  prices averaged 57.23 cents a pound in the
first quarter on the Chicago Board of Trade, 48 percent higher
than a year earlier.  Egpyt is the largest north African importer of oils and
fats, followed by  Morocco ,  Algeria , Tunisia and  Libya , according
to the report. Their biggest import was soybean oil at 350,000
tons, followed by  palm oil  and sunflower oil, Oil World said.
Sunflower oil imports totaled 96,000 tons, less than half the
213,000 tons a year earlier, according to the report.  Sunflower oil prices may decline on increased South African
production of sunflowers, boosting demand from north African
countries, Oil World said.  “We expect that sunflower oil regains market share in
north Africa in the further course of this season,” the company
said. “The price competitiveness of sunflower oil has already
improved in recent weeks, due to the larger than expected
Argentine sunseed crop.”  Sunflower Seeds  The sunflower seed harvest in  Argentina  was 82 percent
complete in the week ended March 24 versus 70 percent the prior
year, and yields have been “well above” last year, Oil World
said. Production will rise 31 percent to 3.4 million tons,
according to the report. Sunflower seed processing accelerated
in March, raising exportable oil and meal stockpiles.  Some soybeans that were planted late in Argentina are at
risk as frost may damage plants, Oil World said. The crop
development is behind a year ago and harvesting was 7 percent
complete on March 30, down from almost 14 percent a year
earlier, according to the report, citing Bolsa de Cereales de
 Buenos Aires .  Argentina’s soybean production may total 48.5 million tons,
down 11 percent from a year ago, as yields may fall about 10
percent to 2.6 tons a hectare (2.47 acres) and planted area
declined 1.1 percent to 18.4 million hectares, according to the
report.  “We base our forecast on reports about poorer crop
conditions than last year for both first- and second-crop
soybeans, primarily in parts of Cordoba and La Pampa,” Oil
World said. “But also in a few areas of Entre Rios and Santa Fe
soybean crop conditions are considerably worse than a year
ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 