-- 
Northern, Southern Sudan May Swap Oil Stakes After South's Independence

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-04-05T13:58:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/northern-southern-sudan-may-swap-oil-stakes-after-south-s-independence.html
Southern and northern  Sudan  may
exchange stakes in each other’s oil companies after the south
becomes independent in July, said Salah Wabhi, chief executive
officer of Sudan’s state oil company, Sudapet.  At independence on July 9,  Southern Sudan  will assume
control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil
production of 490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China
National Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and
India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp. Sudan is sub-Saharan Africa’s
third-biggest producer after Nigeria and Angola.  In exchange for  oil fields  and exploration rights with the
south’s oil company, Nilepet, the northern government in
Khartoum may offer stakes in its own operations, Wabhi told
reporters today in London.  “It’s under discussion now and we are trying to help the
national company of the south,” he said. “It’s one way of
thinking” about how to divide oil revenue. The two regions now
share revenue from oil pumped in the south on a 50-50 basis,
under a 2005 peace agreement that ended a two-decade civil war.  Southern Sudan  will depend on Sudan’s only oil-export
terminal, at Port Sudan on the Red Sea, in the north.  Arrangements for the oil industry after the south’s
independence are on the agenda for talks scheduled for next week
in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia’s capital, he added.  The two sides will also consider setting up a single
authority representing both countries to manage two oil fields
that cross their border after the south’s secession, said Wabhi.  “It’s common practice in other countries,” he said. “This
is happening in Malaysia and Thailand, and Kuwait and Saudi.”  Total SA (FP)  has yet to start an oil exploration in  Block B  in
the south of the country, Wabhi said. Paris-based Total owns
32.5 percent of the 118,000 square-kilometer (46,000 square-
mile) concession, while Sudapet and Nilepet each own 10 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in  London  at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 