-- 
Norway Expects More Arctic Oil Drilling After Barents Sea Strike

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-04-05T23:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/norway-expects-more-arctic-oil-drilling-after-barents-sea-strike.html
Norway  expects more drilling in its
Arctic waters after  Statoil ASA (STL) ’s announcement last week of the
first commercial find in the Barents Sea in more than 10 years.  “After Statoil’s discovery, we’ll be going through those
maps again to see whether there are any opportunities we might
have missed,” Bente Nyland, head of Norway’s Petroleum
Directorate, said yesterday in an interview in Hammerfest, a
town on country’s northern tip. “You’ll see more companies
who’ve had a wait-and-see attitude coming in.”  Norway, western  Europe ’s largest oil and gas producer, is
encouraging explorers to drill in its northern waters as older
fields decline. Statoil last week struck a deposit some 200
kilometers (310 miles) offshore that may hold 250 million to 500
million barrels, potentially the country’s biggest find in
Norway in a decade. Norway estimates the Barents Sea may have
5.9 billion barrels of undiscovered oil and gas.  Statoil and partner  Eni SpA (ENI)  may revamp their drilling
schedule to faster determine the size of the Skrugard find,
targeting a record development time of less than six years. The
other two finds in the Barents Sea are Eni’s Goliat field, set
to start pumping in 2013, 13 years after discovery, and the
Snohvit gas field started in 2007, 23 years after discovery.  Statoil’s push may add to near-record drilling this year,
with four more exploration wells slated in the Barents Sea by
 Total SA (FP) , GDF Suez SA, Dong Energy A/S and  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE) ,
as well as seven planned for next year, including two by Eni.  Rocksource ASA, a partner in GDF’s Heilo prospect that will
be drilled in August, estimates a more than 50 percent chance of
a find and sees recoverable resources at 200 million barrels of
oil equivalent, it  said  on its website.  ‘Enormous Potential’  “This opens up a new oil province with enormous
potential,” said Gro Gunleiksrud Haatvedt, Statoil’s head of
Norway exploration, during a presentation in Hammerfest. “Our
exploration model works in this province. It will be very
interesting to drill wells in the nearby area.”  The find was a welcome reprieve for the industry after a
record dry spell to start the year, which in the first two
months saw four dry wells in the Barents and Norwegian seas and
two dry wells in the  North Sea . That was the biggest number of
failures to start the year since Norway’s oil era began in 1966,
according to government data.  “I don’t think we yet know if it’s a game changer,”
Soeren Gath Hansen, head of exploration at Danish explorer Dong,
said in Hammerfest. “We would like to share the optimism that
it’s a sign of more to come, but we don’t have the basis for
making that evaluation at this point in time.”  ‘Cracking the Code’  Helge Lund, chief executive officer at Statoil, had said
the industry had been unable to “crack the code” of the
Barents Sea after the company had participated in more than 80
wells there since 1980. Norway, where energy production makes up
about 25 percent of the economy, is pushing into the Arctic and
relying more on gas because oil output has slumped 50 percent
since peaking in 2000 as North Sea fields mature.  “We were starting to become a little pessimistic,” Trond Omdal, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA, said by telephone.
“It had been quite a while since we’d made such a big
discovery. The finds we made over 10 years ago might have been a
lot bigger, but oil was also at $20 a barrel then.”  Oil prices  have gained 28 percent this year amid unrest in
the Middle East and North Africa, trading at $122 a barrel in
 London  yesterday.  Light Oil  Skrugard may also hold oil that is light and easy to
produce, according to Statoil. A standalone installation is
likely for the field, which would be the northernmost such
facility, said Gunleiksrud Haatvedt.  “It hasn’t been a disadvantage that it’s oil we’ve
found,” Morten Loktu, Statoil’s chief of northern operations,
said in a Hammerfest interview. “It’s easier to find a solution
for oil infrastructure-wise, given that it doesn’t matter how
far away it is from land and that the market is global.”  Norway is opening more areas in the  Barents Sea  and
authorities are scheduled to announce the results of the 21st
licensing round “this spring,” in which it is offering 51
whole and partial blacks in the Barents Sea and 43 in the
 Norwegian Sea .  “The Barents Sea will become a very important area in
Norway,” said Alessandro Puliti, a managing director at Eni,
yesterday in an interview in Hammerfest.  “It’s an area where I
expect we’ll be doing exploration activity in the next years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 