-- 
Norway Must Ensure Oil Doesn’t Send Economy Off Track, IMF Says

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-04-06T08:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/norway-must-ensure-oil-doesn-t-send-economy-off-track-imf-says.html
Norway must ensure an oil-price
surge doesn’t throw the economy “off track” as government
overspending forces the central bank to compensate with tighter
monetary policy, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The world’s seventh-largest oil exporter seeks to avoid
economic overheating by pumping crude and gas income into its
$540 billion sovereign-wealth fund. While Norway caps
expenditure at 4 percent of the fund, a 29 percent increase in
the price of oil since Feb. 15 will allow the government to
comply with its rule while spending more cash.  “With the rising oil fund, more and more money over time
will be used in the economy, according to the rule,” said Audun Groenn, the IMF’s alternate director for the Nordics and Baltics
and a former Norges Bank director, in an interview. “This has
to be complemented by other policies that can ensure that the
economy does not go off track.”  Norway , the world’s second-richest nation per capita with
 Europe ’s lowest unemployment rate, faces the risk of overheating
as economic policy remains too lax, the country’s financial
regulator said March 10. The central bank signaled in March it
may raise rates as early as May to steer the recovery. Finance
Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said March 3 he’s committed to tight
fiscal policy to take pressure off the central bank and avoid
currency gains.  ‘Moderately Below’  Norway should aim to spend “moderately below the rule in
the medium term,” Groenn said in the April 4 interview. “In
order to contain risks for an excessive appreciation” of the
krone, “fiscal discipline is quite crucial,” he said.  The Nordic country, which struck oil and gas in the  North
Sea  40 years ago, has seen its wealth fund grow almost eight-
fold in the past decade as the price of oil has risen five-fold.
 Oil prices  have also surged this year amid unrest in the middle
East, pushing benchmark North Sea Brent crude up 29 percent.  Danske Bank A/S said in its Nordic Outlook report today
that the Norwegian economic recovery is “speeding up” amid
another “oil boom.” The country’s economy will expand 2.5
percent this year and 2.2 percent next year, after 0.4 percent
growth in 2010, the Copenhagen-based bank said in a report.  Increased Flows  “If oil prices were to remain at current levels for
the rest of the year, the government’s net income flow from oil
would be almost 90 billion kroner higher than assumed when the
budget was presented in October,” the lender said. “The public
sector will therefore continue to make a positive contribution
to Norwegian economic growth in the coming years.”  The government estimated in this year’s budget that the
available oil money under the 4 percent rule will grow to 243
billion kroner ($44 billion) by 2020, up from 121 billion this
year. The oil fund may expand to 6 trillion kroner by the end of
the decade from about 3 trillion kroner today, it said.  Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, whose government has
breached the 4 percent rule in two of its five years in power,
promised a tighter 2012 budget to avoid “unnecessary” rate
rises that fuel krone gains and hurt exporters. As his
administration struggles to keep spending within 4 percent of
the value of the fund, he says there’s no need to change the
rule to introduce a lower cap.  “There will be a flexible implementation of the rule but I
believe it is important to maintain the main rule,” he said in
an interview in Oslo on March 25.  The government may spend “somewhat” less than 4 percent
of the fund this year, Johnsen says.  “Looking at the projections of the economy now for 2011
and forward we should lie below the 4 percent rule.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  