-- 
Novartis Aims to Resurrect ‘Zombie’ Drug Prexige in EU After Four Years

-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 
2011-04-05T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/novartis-aims-to-resurrect-zombie-drug-in-eu-after-four-years.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  asked European Union
regulators to approve the Prexige pain pill that was pulled off
the market four years ago, as the company seeks to revive a drug
that once had the potential for $1 billion in annual sales.  The medicine, renamed Joicela, has been submitted to the EU
regulators for approval, according to the Basel, Switzerland-
based company’s 2010 annual report. Joicela sales were halted in
2007 after reports it caused liver damage.  Approval of Joicela would help Novartis replace revenue it
will lose as its best-selling products start to face competition
from generic medicines. The drug belongs to the same group of
treatments as Merck & Co.’s Vioxx, which was pulled from the
market in 2004 after research linked it to heart attacks and
strokes.  “Zombie products are never very much fun,”  Andrew Weiss ,
an analyst with Bank Vontobel AG, said in an interview. “It
looks like Novartis is trying to launch anything they can get
their hands on. They must be really nervous about the patent
situation.” He recommends buying Novartis shares.  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for Novartis, didn’t respond to
requests for comment. Sabine Haubenreisser, a spokeswoman for
the  European Medicines Agency  in  London , declined to comment.  The EU filing is Novartis’s second run at re-introducing
the drug. The company planned to re-submit the treatment to U.S.
regulators in 2009 along with a genetic test to detect patients
prone to liver damage, Novartis said at the time.  Liver Damage  Novartis declined to comment on the drug’s status with the
 Food and Drug Administration . Erica Jefferson, a spokeswoman for
the FDA, declined to comment.  The FDA said in September 2007 it couldn’t approve Prexige
for patients suffering from osteoarthritis because studies
showed too high a rate of liver damage. European regulators
halted sales of the drug months later. Novartis once estimated
Prexige’s peak sales as likely to top $1 billion annually.  Joicela, if approved in  Europe , would be given only to
patients who the test shows aren’t prone to liver damage,
according to Novartis’s annual report.  Novartis’s best-selling drug, the hypertension treatment
Diovan, began to lose patent protection in Europe in February.
The drug had 2010 revenue of $6.1 billion. Gleevec, a leukemia
drug that brought in $4.3 billion, may face generic competition
starting in 2015.  The oral multiple sclerosis pill Gilenya, approved in the
U.S. last year, gained European backing this year and may
generate as much as $5.3 billion a year for Novartis by 2016,
according to Fabian Wenner, a UBS AG analyst.  Joicela, Vioxx and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Celebrex are drugs known
as Cox-2 inhibitors. The medicines were intended to cause less
stomach irritation than older treatments such as ibuprofen and
aspirin.  The Novartis drug caused fewer stomach ulcers in arthritis
patients than ibuprofen or naproxen, sold by Bayer AG as Aleve,
in a 2004 clinical study published in the medical journal  The
Lancet . In the same trial, Prexige led to elevated liver enzymes
in four times as many patients as naproxen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 