-- 
Novorossiysk Loses Cargo Amid Oil to Asia: Freight Markets

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-06T12:28:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/novorossiysk-loses-cargo-as-oil-flows-to-asia-freight-markets.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s quest to sell oil to  China , the world’s hungriest
market, may lock in a $797 million decline in value at the
country’s biggest port.  OAO Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port on the Black Sea,
 Russia ’s biggest outlet to the Mediterranean, is likely to lose
crude volumes to a new pipeline to Russia’s Pacific coast and to
China. The project creates  “notable competition”  to European
deliveries, Putin, 58, said in August at the ceremonial opening
of the China spur in eastern Siberia.  Russia, the world’s largest oil and gas producer, sent its
first crude by pipeline to China in January. It is part of the
$26-billion link, known as ESPO, being built to carry 1 million
barrels of oil a day across Siberia by the end of 2014. That may
divert about 10 percent of Russia’s oil output from ports and
pipes serving Europe as the country seeks to exploit growing
Asian demand.  “Investors are shy of Novorossiysk stock right now because
there is uncertainty over how long the gap between losing oil
and picking up other cargos will last,” said  Chris Weafer ,
chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp., Russia’s fifth-
biggest private bank by assets. The lag may last as much as
three years, he said.  Novorossiysk shares are already being pressured by a
government-backed transaction that would turn over control of it
to shareholders of another port.  Falling Shares  The Black Sea port’s value has plunged 24 percent, or by
about $797 million, since the day before its Sept. 15
announcement that it would pay $2.15 billion to take over the
Primorsk port, whose shareholders would then gain a controlling
stake in the combined company. Shares fell 1.8 percent yesterday
in Moscow to close at 3.75 rubles.  “Primorsk will be of no help as it will probably lose
volumes too,” said Elena Sakhnova, a transportation analyst at
VTB Capital in Moscow. In addition, “Investors were
disappointed with Novorossiysk’s acquisition of Primorsk because
it was expensive.”  The  Black Sea  route will likely bear the brunt of falling
crude flows as Russia builds ESPO to the Pacific, Jonathan Kollek, vice president for sales, trading and logistics at TNK-
BP, Russia’s third largest oil company, said in an interview
today. It is not as profitable as other export routes, he said.  Fuel Oil  Novorossiysk will seek to compensate for lost crude exports
by handling other oil products, such as fuel oil, said Igor Dyomin, a spokesman for state oil pipeline operator OAO
Transneft, which is part of a group that gained control of the
port in January. Crude accounted for almost 52 percent of
volumes through the port in the past two years, while refined
products accounted for less than 16 percent.  Novorossiysk is located on the only southern coastline
Russia has left after the December 1991 breakup of the  Soviet
Union . It shipped almost 16 percent of the 269 million tons of
crude Russia exported last year, according to the Energy
Ministry. From it, tankers must navigate the crowded Bosporus
Strait to reach the  Mediterranean Sea .  The Transneft-owned ESPO pipeline, when expanded to the
Pacific port of Kozmino, will span about 4,700 kilometers (2,900
miles), longer than the distance from  London  to Tehran. The
Chinese spur runs 1,024 kilometers, from Skovorodino, where ESPO
now ends, to Daqing in northeast China.  Japan  Buys  Putin’s push to extend deliveries to the Pacific gives
remote East Siberian deposits an export route, while achieving
his strategic aim of broadening Russia’s customer base. The
crude blend from Kozmino has found buyers at refiners in Japan,
 South Korea  and the west coast of the U.S., and Russia has made
the Kozmino price the benchmark for pipe deliveries to China.  Consumption of oil in  Europe ’s five biggest countries will
fall 1.1 percent this year while Chinese demand is forecast to
grow by 6.5 percent, according to the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency , which said last July that China had passed the
U.S. as the world’s biggest energy user in 2009.  “Oil demand growth in China was the fastest-growing on an
absolute basis last year,” Michael Waldron, an energy-markets
analyst at the agency, said in a phone interview, speaking of
volume. “The IEA predicts it will be again this year.”  Oil volumes at Novorossiysk Port will probably decline at a
rate of between 3 percent and 6 percent for a couple of years
before stabilizing, said VTB Capital’s Sakhnova. The port
handled 42.1 million metric tons of oil last year, a decrease of
5.5 percent from 2009, the company said in a Jan. 31 statement.  New Strategy?  “Once shareholders come up with a new strategy and
investment plan, it will help share prices return to previous
levels,” she said.  The Primorsk port’s owners, state-run Transneft and
businessman Ziyavudin Magomedov’s Summa Capital, acquired 50.1
percent of Novorossiysk in a deal completed in January.  The port’s market value has shrunk to about $2.6 billion
since Sept. 14. Transneft preferred shares have climbed 31
percent to 44,836 rubles ($1,584) in the same period.  Transneft and Summa Capital, as shareholders of the
Novorossiysk port company, want to boost its value, so “it’s
safe to assume Transneft’s other projects won’t compete,”
Novorossiysk port’s press service said in an e-mailed response
to questions.  Having Transneft as a shareholder may help to guarantee oil
volumes or raising shipments of oil products, Sakhnova said.
Transneft also operates the country’s product pipelines.  Terminal Construction  The port is building a  fuel-oil  terminal with Cyprus-
registered energy trader Gunvor Group Ltd., Dyomin said. The
terminal will have capacity to handle 4 million tons of oil
products a year, the port said. Oil-product loadings fell 3.5
percent last year to 12.7 million tons, according to the January
statement.  Deliveries of materials as the Black Sea resort of Sochi
prepares for the 2014 Olympics may lighten the blow, Sakhnova
said. The port is also seeking to boost volumes of containers
and bulk and dry goods, according a presentation on its  website .  The risk to minorities is that Transneft, as the ports’
largest customer, may use its shareholder position to lower its
own costs by paring the terminals’ handling rates, Weafer said.  The government has reason to foster the port’s value, as it
plans to sell its 20 percent stake, possibly at auction this
year, according to the  Economy Ministry . The sale is part of a 1
trillion-ruble ($35 billion) program to sell state assets over
three years.  “Novorossiysk will remain a core part of Russia’s
infrastructure,” Weafer said. “If you look ahead five years or
more the outlook is strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 