-- 
Nymex May Tighten WTI Rules as Refiners Question Crude Quality

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-04-06T18:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/nymex-may-tighten-wti-rules-as-refiners-question-crude-quality.html
The  New York Mercantile Exchange  may
tighten specifications on the West Texas Intermediate oil
contract, the U.S. benchmark, because refiners say existing
rules fail to eliminate variability that can cut product yields.  The exchange supports a proposal from an industry group
called the  Crude Oil Quality Association  to control the makeup
of the light, sweet contract through added standards,  New York- 
based Daniel Brusstar, director of energy research and product
development at  CME Group Inc. (CME) , parent company of Nymex, said
yesterday. The exchange is “hopeful” a quality assurance
program will start at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for
the contract, in the second half of 2011, he said.  As new Canadian and U.S. production floods trading hubs,
characteristics that have defined domestic blended grades for
decades are changing. Blenders capturing a profit by mixing
cheaper grades into more expensive oils, along with an increase
in  storage tanks  and pipeline links, are adding to deviations in
WTI-tied blends, members of the quality group said.  “What people have seen in WTI is the variations have
started to grow more than they are comfortable with,” said
Randy Segato, a crude quality specialist for Calgary-based
 Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and an adviser to the industry group. “As
more pipelines grow and as more refiners grow, there is a
tendency towards more variability. There are many marketers who
have taken advantage of blending behind the scenes.”  Tighter Testing  Some terminal operators have started more stringent
testing.  Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA)  has implemented
additional standards for crude batches at its Cushing terminal,
the company said.  Enbridge Energy Partners LP (EEP)  said it plans to
“increase the scope” of testing at its Cushing storage tanks.  Settlement of WTI futures, the world’s largest-volume
contract trading on a physical commodity, and a global standard
since it was introduced in 1983, can include six domestic crudes
delivered into any terminal that is connected to  Enterprise
Products Partners LP (EPD)  or Enbridge Energy Partners LP’s Cushing
terminals, according to the Nymex. Blending foreign crude into
those oils is prohibited.  “The yield on some common stream blends erases the
economic incentive to process them,” said Paige Kester, vice
president of refinery supply at Houston-based  Frontier Oil
Corp. (FTO) , and a member of the quality association. “Blenders are
hurting our economics, yet they are within the current
specifications for domestic sweet crude.”  Physical Settlement  Less than 1 percent, or 3,248 crude futures contracts, were
delivered in 2010, compared with the average open interest of
1.34 million contracts during the same period, according to
Nymex and data compiled by Bloomberg. There is no physical
delivery against Brent oil futures contracts traded on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe Exchange.  Other oils marketed as “common domestic sweet” meet
sulfur and gravity requirements of the  WTI contract  for light
sweet crude. Separately, five foreign crude streams can be
delivered at a premium or a discount against the futures
contract including Brent, the European benchmark, and Bonny
Light from  Nigeria .  “Right now refineries have to discount WTI in their
systems compared to other available grades because there is a
lot of variability,” said Houston-based Anita Koval, a senior
crude trader for Lion Oil Co., which operates an 80,000-barrel-a
-day refinery in El Dorado,  Arkansas . Tightening the rules will
“improve the liquidity of the physical barrel and you’re not
going to end up with a dinosaur that nobody wants,” she said.  Added Criteria  The quality association asked the exchange in August to add
seven parameters to limit the amount of acid, nickel, vanadium,
light ends and vacuum residuum in WTI. The group includes
refiners, pipeline and terminal operators with executive board
 members  from BP Plc and  ConocoPhillips. (COP)   Light, sweet crude is less dense, contains lower amounts of
sulfur and generally yields larger volumes of higher value
products such as gasoline and distillate. Heavier, sour crudes
are typically sold at a discount and may require more complex
refinery equipment to process into fuels.  Enterprise declined in an e-mailed statement March 21 to
comment on whether it plans to implement tighter restrictions on
oil delivered to its Cushing terminal. The Houston-based company
“will adhere to the specifications required by the Nymex,” it
said in the statement.  “Historically, domestic sweet was a blend of various sweet
crude oil streams from West Texas, Oklahoma and surrounding
areas,” Dennis Sutton, a member of the quality association and
a feedstock quality manager at  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) , wrote in an
October  presentation  to the group in Houston. Now, because of
“minimal specifications” and more interconnects, the domestic
sweet crude stream might include high-acid African crudes,
Canadian blends and heavy Brazilian oils, he wrote.  ‘The Big Play’  Companies including Plains, The Gavilon Group LLC, SemGroup
Corp. and Magellan Midstream Partners LP announced plans to
build at least 15.6 million barrels of storage at Cushing by the
middle of 2012. That would boost capacity as much as 28 percent
from the existing 55 million barrels at the Oklahoma hub.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  began deliveries on its Keystone pipeline
link that runs from Steele City,  Nebraska , to storage tanks in
Cushing and has contracts to deliver about 155,000 barrels a
day,  Paul Miller , a senior vice president at the Calgary-based
company, said Feb. 8.  “The big play, quite frankly, is you take lower-cost and
lower-quality Canadian crude, and you blend it together with
higher-quality sweet  Oklahoma  crude,” said Gordon Allott,
president of  BroadPeak Partners, Inc.,  a New York-based
commodity investment bank.  Western Select  Western Canada Select, a heavy sour oil mix from  Alberta ,
has traded at an average discount to WTI of $21.73 this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Naphthenic acids and metals are found in higher
concentrations in unconventional crudes, such as those from
Alberta’s tar sands, said Scott Sayles, a consultant with KBC
Advanced Technologies Plc based in Houston. Acids increase
corrosion in equipment and metals shorten the life of catalysts
using in refining, he said.  Frontier, a refiner with plants in Kansas and  Wyoming , paid
a premium for unblended West Texas Intermediate crude shipped
from the Texas oil wells where the grade originated.  “If you get back to the point where you are buying a
specific barrel from a specific lease it’s going to be much more
consistent,” said Frontier’s Kester. “We don’t want people to
blend for us, that’s what we do right at the mouth of our crude
units.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  