-- 
Obama Says His Team Ready to Meet to Resolve Budget

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-05T18:28:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/obama-says-his-team-ready-to-meet-with-republicans-to-resolve-budget-issue.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Democrats have offered budget cuts that should meet demands of
Republicans and that his administration is ready to meet as long
as necessary to resolve the impasse on spending.  It would be “inexcusable” for both sides to fail to agree
on a spending plan “simply because of politics,” Obama said at
the White House. The nation can’t afford to have government
operations shut down if a deal isn’t reached by April 8, when
the current spending authority expires, he said.  “We are now at a point where there’s no excuse to extend
this further,” he said.  Negotiations over 2011 spending continued as House Budget
Chairman  Paul Ryan , of  Wisconsin , proposed a blueprint for 2012
spending that includes deeper budget cuts in coming years.  Obama met earlier today with House Speaker  John Boehner ,
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and the heads of the House and
Senate appropriations committee in an effort to move the 2011
budget negotiations forward. No agreement was reached. The
president said that if negotiators can’t make progress tonight,
“then I want them back here tomorrow.”  House Republicans prepared a new stopgap measure that would
slash $12 billion from current spending, fund the Pentagon
through the Sept. 30 close of the fiscal year and keep the rest
of the government operating until April 15. That would buy more
time for talks on a package that Republicans say must contain
deeper cuts than the $33 billion Democrats are offering.  Obama said he would support a short “clean” extension if
it were just a matter of needing a couple of days to finish
details on a broader agreement for the rest of the fiscal year.
He said he opposes another stopgap measure just to extend
negotiations.  “That is not a way to run a government,” he said. “We
can’t have a my-way-or-the-highway approach to this problem.”  The debate over spending also involves a dispute over
dozens of policy directives  House Republicans  tacked onto their
2011 spending plan that seek to tie the Obama administration’s
hands on environmental rules, health care and abortion, among
other matters.  Obama said the spending negotiations aren’t the place for
policy matters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 Jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  