-- 
Obama Dials Up Supporters to Revive ‘Passion’ in Start of Re-Election Bid

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-04-05T04:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/obama-dials-up-supporters-to-revive-passion-in-start-of-re-election-bid.html
President  Barack Obama  said he
wanted to rekindle the “passion and energy” of his 2008
campaign as he joined supporters on a conference call that
capped a daylong organizing effort for his 2012 re-election bid.  “We can’t go backwards,” he said on the call last night,
which was also broadcast on his campaign website. “We have to
preserve the progress that we’ve made and take it to the next
level, and that means that we’re going to have to mobilize.”  The campaign was kicked off earlier in the day with a
video on  his website  and an e-mail to supporters. His campaign
also filed  paperwork  with the  Federal Election Commission  to
declare its organizing intentions.  Obama, 49, will face a different set of challenges running
as an incumbent with a record than he did in 2008, when he was
able to draw on the enthusiasm of many young and first-time
voters who helped make him the nation’s first black president.  “We may not have the exact same newness that we had in
2008,” he said on the call. “But that core spirit about what
this campaign has always been about, I think, is still there.”  Obama counseled patience when one supporter asked what she
should tell fellow Democrats frustrated that he hasn’t
fulfilled all the promises made in the 2008 race. In a
democracy, changes aren’t made easily or quickly, he said.  “The first thing is to remind people what we have
accomplished,” he said. “We have probably had the most
successful legislative initiative of any president over the
last 50 years.”  Early Start  Obama isn’t facing any serious competition for
renomination by the Democrats, and he’ll have the advantage of
the presidential stage in getting his message out. Still, he
sought to rally his core backers to begin organizing now.  “I can’t spend 24 hours a day campaigning like I did in
‘07 and ‘08,” he said. “I’ve got to take care of business
here as well. In some ways, I’m going to need you even more
this time than I did last time.”  Yesterday’s filing with the FEC allows Obama to begin
fundraising and other organizational efforts for winning a
second White House term. The campaign will have its
headquarters in Chicago, the president’s adopted hometown and
base for his 2008 victory.  The  Republican National Committee  responded to Obama’s
announcement with a critique of his term in office.  “Obama has shown a distinct lack of leadership on the
budget debate,” the RNC said in a release. He chose “politics
over substance by sitting on the sidelines” on major questions
about the future of government programs.  Foreign, Domestic Challenges  The president is beginning his campaign as he confronts
foreign policy challenges that include the turmoil in the
Middle East and North Africa. There is also continued economic
stress at home.  The national  unemployment rate  is projected to be 8.3
percent in 2012, according to a median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News in March. While that would be down
from the current 8.8 percent figure, no president since World
War II has been re-elected with the jobless rate higher than
7.5 percent.  Obama likely will give a formal speech on his re-election
bid at a later date. He is scheduled to make an April 14
fundraising stop in  Chicago , where donors four years ago
provided him some of his earliest funding. Additional April
fundraising events are being planned in  California  and  New York .  Campaign Money  Analysts say they expect the 2012 presidential election to
cost $3 billion, about 50 percent more than the $2 billion the
Federal Election Commission said was spent in 2008 by
candidates, the political parties and outside groups. Obama
raised a record $745 million in 2007 and 2008 for his
presidential campaign and was the first major-party nominee to
reject public financing for the general election.  Jim Messina , a former White House deputy chief of staff,
has moved to Chicago to run the campaign. Also back in Chicago
to handle the campaign’s messaging and strategy is  David Axelrod , a former senior Obama adviser in the White House.  The president’s job approval was at 42 percent in a
 Quinnipiac University poll  taken March 22-28 with an error
margin of plus-or-minus 2.2 percentage points. That was down
from 46 percent in a March 3 Quinnipiac survey and at its
lowest level in the university’s surveys on Obama.  Also, 50 percent of the registered voters surveyed by the
Hamden, Connecticut-based polling institute said Obama didn’t
deserve re-election in 2012, compared with 41 percent who said
he should receive a second four-year term.  Republican Contenders  In a hypothetical race with an unidentified Republican
opponent, voter sentiment was statistically tied: 36 percent
for Obama, 37 percent for a Republican.  The Iowa caucuses, the first contest in the nomination
process, are tentatively scheduled for Feb. 6, 2012.  The Republican nomination contest remains wide open, with
potential candidates ranging from former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney to real estate developer  Donald Trump .  Other prospective Republican candidates include former
 Minnesota  Governor  Tim Pawlenty , former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee , who won the Iowa caucuses in 2008, former Alaska
Governor Sarah Palin, Governor Mitch Daniels of  Indiana , and
former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who is stepping down as the
Obama-appointed ambassador to  China  in April.  Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  has expressed interest
in the Republican race, as has former Senator Rick Santorum of
 Pennsylvania . The lack of a clear frontrunner has encouraged
others, including Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota,
a Tea Party favorite, to position themselves for potential runs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  