-- 
Obama Says Middle East Turmoil Adds Urgency to Push for Peace Agreement

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-05T20:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/obama-says-mideast-turmoil-adds-urgency-to-push-for-peace-accord.html
President  Barack Obama  said turmoil
in the Mideast that has already toppled governments in Egypt and
Tunisia increases the urgency for a peace agreement between
Israel and the Palestinians.  Obama, speaking to reporters after a meeting with Israeli
President Shimon Peres, said the two agree that the changes in
the region are “both a challenge and an opportunity.”  “It’s more urgent than ever that we try to seize the
opportunity to create a peaceful solution between the
Palestinians and the Israelis, and he has some very interesting
ideas around those issues,” Obama said of Peres, without
elaborating.  The visit of Peres to Washington comes as  Jerusalem 
officials are seeking approval to build almost 1,000 new
apartments in the eastern part of the city where Palestinians
and the U.S. government have objected to Israeli construction.  Palestinians consider the site a West Bank settlement
because it was captured by  Israel  from Jordan during the 1967
Middle East war. Israel has incorporated the area into
Jerusalem’s municipal boundaries, a move not internationally
recognized.  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas says he won’t
resume peace negotiations with Israel unless it halts all
settlement construction, including in east Jerusalem.  The construction has caused friction between the U.S. and
Israel.  “The  United States  is deeply concerned by continuing
Israeli actions with respect to settlement construction,” Tommy Vietor, spokesman for Obama’s National Security Council, said in
a statement. “Not only are continued Israeli settlements
illegitimate, Israel’s actions run counter to efforts to resume
direct negotiations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in  Washington  at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  