-- 
Obama Aides to Recommend Veto of Republican Bill to Strip EPA Carbon Power

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-04-05T20:19:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/obama-aides-to-recommend-veto-of-republican-bill-to-strip-epa-carbon-power.html
President  Barack Obama ’s aides would
recommend he veto Republican-backed legislation barring the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency from regulating greenhouse gases
tied to global warming.  The measure from House Energy and Commerce Committee
Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, would increase U.S.
reliance on foreign oil and “contradict the scientific
consensus on  climate change ,” the White House Office of
Management and Budget said today in a statement.  Upton’s bill would strip the EPA’s authority to limit
 carbon emissions  from industrial polluters such as  power plants .
Republican lawmakers and some Democrats said the EPA rules will
hurt the economy without providing any environmental benefit.
Environmentalists have urged Obama to say he would veto such
legislation.  “The White House finally used the ‘v’ word,”  Frank
O’Donnell , president of Clean Air Watch, a Washington-based
environmental group, said in an interview.  The  House of Representatives  is set to vote on Upton’s bill
as early as tomorrow, Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky
Republican and chairman of the House Energy and Power
subcommittee, told CNBC today. About 24 Democratic lawmakers may
join Republicans to vote for the bill, he said.  Agreement ‘Very Close’  In the Senate, lawmakers are “very close” to an agreement
to vote on measures that would either stop or delay the EPA
greenhouse-gas rules, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, told reporters today.  The EPA’s regulations, which took effect in January, were
put into place after Congress failed to pass climate legislation
backed by Obama to create a cap-and-trade system for pollution
allowances.  Republicans and some Democrats say the  Clean Air Act  was
never intended to regulate emissions such as carbon dioxide, an
odorless, invisible gas unlike smog.  The  National Association of Manufacturers , a Washington-
based industry trade group, urged House members to support
Upton’s bill, the Energy Tax Prevention Act.  “The Environmental Protection Agency’s regulation of
greenhouse-gas emissions, with no guidance from Congress, will
cost jobs and slow economic growth,” Aric Newhouse, vice
president of policy and government relations, said today in a
letter to lawmakers.  A February poll commissioned by the American Lung
Association found that 60 percent of people questioned said
Congress shouldn’t stop the EPA rules and 35 percent thought
lawmakers should bar the agency from limiting discharges of
carbon dioxide, a primary greenhouse gas.  The survey of 500 probable voters Feb. 7-14 by Democratic
polling firm Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research and Republican
pollster Ayres, McHenry & Associates, according to the
Washington-based association, a health-advocacy group. The poll
had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  