-- 
Obama Picks Wasserman Schultz to Head Democratic Party

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-04-05T23:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/obama-picks-wasserman-schultz-to-head-democratic-party-correct-.html
U.S. Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of  Florida  is President Barack Obama’s choice to lead
the  Democratic National Committee .  Vice President  Joe Biden  informed DNC members of Obama’s
selection in an e-mail today after the group’s current chairman,
former Virginia Governor  Tim Kaine , announced he is running for
the  U.S. Senate . The DNC members must confirm the choice.  Wasserman Schultz, 44, was first elected to her House seat
in 2004. Her heavily Democratic district includes much of  Fort
Lauderdale .  She formerly served in the Florida legislature. She made
history as the youngest woman elected to state House when she
won her seat at the age of 26. She is a breast cancer survivor
who went public with her battle with the disease in 2009 to help
promote the benefits of early diagnosis.  “In selecting Debbie to lead our party, President Obama
noted her tenacity, her strength, her fighting spirit, and her
ability to overcome adversity,” Biden said in his e-mail.
“President Obama expressed great admiration for her as a
leader, and he was honored that she accepted this important
challenge on behalf of the  Democratic Party .”  Obama made his selection the day after he officially began
his 2012 re-election bid by releasing a campaign video on his
website and sending an e-mail to supporters.  ‘Red to Blue’  Wasserman Schultz has party-organization experience,
serving as co-chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee’s “red to blue” effort in the 2006 campaign, in
which Democrats won control of the House from the Republicans.
The program was designed to bolster prospects of Democratic
candidates in Republican-held districts.  During the 2008 campaign, she worked with the DCCC’s
incumbent-retention program. She was also part of former House
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi ’s leadership team in the chamber. Pelosi
relinquished the speakership in early January after Republicans
won the House majority in the 2010 elections.  Wasserman Schultz is among the House members closest to
Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , the Arizona Democrat wounded
in the head during a shooting rampage while she was greeting
constituents on Jan. 8 in Tucson. Jared Lee Loughner, 22, was
arrested and charged in the attack that left six people dead.  Wasserman Schultz has visited Giffords regularly as she
recovers. She was one of those in the hospital room when
Giffords raised her left arm just days after the shooting. “It
felt like a miracle,” Wasserman Schultz said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  