-- 
Lockheed Official Says U.S. Must Fund the Riskiest Clean Energy Projects

-- B y   S o p h i a   Y a n
-- 
2011-04-05T16:26:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/lockheed-official-says-u-s-must-fund-the-riskiest-clean-energy-projects.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s chief
technology officer said government funding is needed to spur
private-sector investment in “heavy risk” energy projects such
as energy storage and smart-grid reliability.  Companies developing technology innovations such as
advanced batteries for electric vehicles can sometimes win
funding from private investors in Silicon Valley and elsewhere,
while Wall Street banks focus on proven technology such as
 General Electric Co. (GE) ’s wind turbines, Lockheed Chief Technology
Officer Ray O. Johnson said.  Between those stages is the “valley of death,” where
private funding disappears, Johnson said late yesterday at a
Bloomberg New Energy Finance conference in  New York .  “The perfect role for government is, in fact, to take on
heavy risk activities,” Johnson said. “Part of that transition
through the valley of death is to actually get private capital
to come in.”  Dan Arvizu, director of the  Energy Department’s National
Renewable Energy Laboratory  in Golden,  Colorado , said during a
panel discussion that basic research funding isn’t enough.
“There has to be a lot more than that to get technologies to
the marketplace.”  Bringing breakthrough ideas such as small-scale nuclear
reactors to market is expensive and takes years before it’s
clear which experimental projects will be the ones to last,
Jonathan Silver, executive director of the Energy Department’s
 loan programs office , said during the panel discussion.  ‘Series of Firsts’  Silver, who oversees the government’s $90 billion energy
investment program, is trying to erase that uncertainty. He’s
working on bringing projects such as the  world’s largest wind
farm  in Arlington,  Oregon , about 136 miles from  Portland , to a
point where private investors are interested.  “We are working on a series of firsts," he said. "Anything
we can think of to de-risk these technologies."  Once solicitations go out for bids, Silver said his office
looks for cutting-edge ideas that show promise, no matter how
large or small.  ‘‘We are trying to seed the market with a range of
technologies that private capital markets will support,’’ Silver
said. ‘‘If we don’t start investing now, we run the risk of
missing the opportunity.’’  Funding Cuts  Funding cuts that Congress is considering in energy
research, loan guarantees and other types of government support
in efforts to pare the deficit could mean the U.S. will fall
farther behind in energy innovation, the Energy Department’s
Arvizu said.  ‘‘A lot of members of Congress don’t understand what’s at
stake,” Arvizu said. “We’ve probably already abrogated first-
generation technologies to other countries, but there’s still
tremendous opportunity” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Yan in Bnef Summit at 
 sophiayan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cary O’Reilly at 
 caryoreilly@bloomberg.net  