-- 
OECD Says G-7 Recovery Gaining Strength, Sees Price Risks

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-04-05T09:50:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/oecd-says-g-7-recovery-gaining-strength-sees-price-risks.html
The  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  said an economic recovery among the
world’s most advanced economies is gathering strength and called
faster inflation a threat.  “With financial conditions improving across the board, it
seems likely that the recovery is becoming self-sustained,” the
Paris-based organization said in its interim assessment
published today. While “public finances remain in distress in
most OECD countries,” some central banks “will need to deal
with a risk that inflation expectations may become unanchored.”  The OECD said Group of Seven economies excluding  Japan 
probably expanded an annualized 3.2 percent in the first quarter
and 2.9 percent in the second. In the U.S. and Italy, economic
growth may accelerate from the first quarter, while  Germany ,
 Canada ,  France  and the U.K. may see a slowdown, it forecast.
Japan was excluded from projections following the country’s
March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  The report may give further support to the  European Central
Bank , which has signaled it’s ready to raise borrowing costs on
April 7, while adding pressure on the  Bank of England  and the
 Federal Reserve  to watch inflation expectations as they seek to
nurse their economies back to health.  “I do not think that, given the anticipated rise, that I
would anticipate a significant impact on growth in Europe,”
OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan said at a briefing in
Paris, commenting on the ECB raising  interest rates .  Japan ‘Disaster’  Headline inflation has “picked up significantly in most
major OECD economies due to rising commodity prices,” the group
said. “Inflation expectations have been creeping up.”  The  U.S. economy , the world’s largest, may expand 3.4
percent in the current quarter after growing 3.1 percent in the
previous three months, according to the OECD. In Germany, Italy
and France, gross domestic product may rise an annualized 3
percent in the first quarter and 2.2 percent in the second, it
said, citing a weighted average of the three euro nations.  “Things look better than what we expected in November,”
Padoan said. “Now we’re seeing the private sector” boosting
economic growth.  In Japan, the country’s GDP growth may be reduced by as
much as 0.6 percentage point in the first quarter and up to 1.4
percentage points in the second, the organization said.  “The full cost of the disaster is not yet known,” the
OECD said. “It’s impossible at this point to assess the effect
on economic growth. Reconstruction efforts are likely to begin
relatively quickly, and these could begin to outweigh the
negative effects on GDP by as early as the third quarter.”  Instability in the Middle East, possible increases in the
price of oil and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis remain threats
to economic prospects, according to the report.  “The priority is therefore to consolidate budgets and
establish credible and growth-friendly medium-term plans,” the
OECD said. “A combination of well-targeted macroeconomic and
structural policies could achieve a sustained reduction in the
still wide global imbalances, as well as contribute to fiscal
consolidation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  