-- 
Office Recovery Begins in U.S. as Vacancies Drop for First Time Since 2007

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-04-05T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/office-recovery-begins-in-u-s-as-vacancies-drop-for-first-time-since-2007.html
Office vacancies in the U.S. dropped
for the first time in more than three years in the most recent
quarter and rents climbed, signaling the market is beginning a
recovery as the economy improves.  The national vacancy rate fell to 17.5 percent in the first
quarter from 17.6 percent in the previous three months,  Reis
Inc.  said in a report today. The drop was the first since July
through September of 2007. Asking and effective rents rose for
the second straight quarter after more than two years of
declines, the New York-based property-research firm said.  “This is the first quarter, at least on a national basis,
where the change is strong enough to qualify it as the first
quarter of a recovery,” Ryan Severino, an economist at Reis,
said in an interview. “We have finally gotten to an inflection
point where the good is starting to outweigh the bad.”  The rebound in demand for  office space  is spreading beyond
 New York  and Washington, which have been leading the growth,
Reis said. Gross domestic product growth adjusted for inflation
has been positive for the past six quarters as the  U.S. economy 
emerged from the recession. Employers have added jobs for six
consecutive months, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Preliminary figures from CBRE Econometric Advisors are
similar to Reis’s findings. The office vacancy rate fell to 16.5
percent in the first quarter from 16.8 percent a year earlier,
the first year-over-year drop since 2007’s third quarter,
according to the Boston-based firm. Vacancies were unchanged
from a revised fourth-quarter level, said Arthur Jones, senior
economist at CBRE, a unit of  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG)   ‘Lot of Risks’  “There are signs the market’s entering a recovery but
there are a lot of risks,” Jones said in a telephone interview.
“We need to see another quarter’s worth of data before we’d say
the market’s swung into recovery.”  San Francisco, Pittsburgh, Dallas and Austin,  Texas , are
among the cities most likely to have rent gains next year, Jones
said. Boston and  Salt Lake City  also may see increases, he said.  “The office market as it sets up for recovery is kind of a
wave from the East sweeping to the West,” he said. “We are
forecasting still-modest rent increases for the national market
in 2011, but 2012 is really when the job market will be healthy
enough where we’ll see demand tick up even more.”  Washington  had the lowest office vacancy rate in the first
quarter at 9.2 percent, followed by New York at 10.7 percent,
according to Reis. Detroit and Phoenix had the highest vacancies
at 26.6 percent. Nationally, vacancies rose from 17.3 percent a
year earlier.  Occupancy Gains  Office buildings gained a net 4.7 million square feet
(436,640 square meters) of occupied space in the first three
months of the year, the second consecutive increase following 11
straight quarters of declines, Reis said.  Landlords’ asking rents increased to an average $27.66 per
foot in the first quarter from $27.53 in the previous three
months and $27.57 a year earlier, the research firm said.
Effective rents, or what tenants actually pay, climbed to $22.20
per square foot from $22.09 in the fourth quarter. They were
down from $22.25 in the first three months of 2010.  The increase in asking rents “demonstrates that landlords
feel confident enough about their prospects to move beyond
simply adjusting concessions,” Severino said.  Effective rents rose or stayed the same in 45 out of 79
markets last quarter. That was up from 39 in the previous three
months, another sign that landlords are more optimistic,
according to Severino.  New York, Pittsburgh  New York and Pittsburgh had the highest effective rent
increases from a year earlier, at 2.8 percent, followed by  San
Francisco  at 2.7 percent, Reis said.  Pittsburgh “has held up really well,” said Jones of CBRE.
The city’s concentration of employment in the  energy industry 
has helped bolster rents, he said.  “They’ve managed to skirt the recession,” Jones said.
“The market’s tight enough to support further rent growth. It’s
a small market but one that’s performed really well.”  Further gains may come from San Francisco and Austin,
helped by strong demographics and technology-industry jobs,
according to Jones.  “There are real constraints on supply in San Francisco,”
he said. “It’s really hard to develop, particularly in downtown
areas. That’s a market where you could see some sort of rent
spike in the next couple of years as employment accelerates.”  Dallas  is “on the cusp of recovery,” helped by the
presence of energy companies, relatively low operating costs for
businesses and a growing population, Jones said.  Employment Recovery  The office market generally improves about 12 to 18 months
after employment begins to recover, Severino said. It has now
been one year since the job market saw its first gain in March
2010 after shrinking for the previous 25 months, he said.  A further recovery “all depends on the rate of corporate
hiring,” said Chris Macke, senior real estate strategist at
 CoStar Group Inc. , a Washington-based provider of property
market research. His firm estimates the U.S. office vacancy rate
fell to 13.4 percent in the first quarter from 13.5 percent a
year earlier, and was unchanged from the end of 2010.  “The office recovery has been slow,” Macke said. “The
good news is that rather than hemorrhaging and continuing to see
significant increases in vacancy, the rate is actually now going
down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  