-- 
Oil Falls a Second Day After Signals U.S., China Demand Growth May Falter

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-04-06T06:54:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/oil-falls-a-second-day-after-signals-u-s-china-demand-growth-may-falter.html
Oil dropped for a second day in New
York on speculation the recovery in fuel demand may falter in
the U.S. and  China , the world’s biggest energy users.  Futures declined from a 30-month high yesterday after an
increase in the Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses fell short of economist forecasts and
China’s central bank raised  interest rates . An Energy Department
report today may show U.S. crude stockpiles rose for a fifth
week, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “The interest rate move in China was a bit of a
surprise,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney. “There’s plenty of
oil in the U.S., there’s enough there to keep things going.
Consumption is not there.”  Crude for May delivery fell as much as 62 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $107.72 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . It was at $108.19 at 2:40 p.m.
Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract dropped 13 cents to
$108.34. Prices have gained 18 percent so far this year.  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of service
industries, the biggest part of the  U.S. economy , decreased to
57.3 last month from 59.7 in February. While a measure of 50
signals growth, economists had projected 59.5, based on the
median of 69 estimates in a Bloomberg News poll.  Brent for May settlement on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange fell as much as 86 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $121.36 a
barrel. Yesterday, the contract rose $1.16, or 1 percent, to
$122.22, the highest since Aug. 1, 2008.  Brent Premium  Brent, the European benchmark, yesterday traded at a
premium of $13.88 a barrel to U.S. crude futures, the highest
since March 1. The difference surged to a record $19.54 on Feb.
21 as unrest spread in the Middle East and North Africa and
stockpiles climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
 New York  oil contracts. The premium averaged 76 cents last year.  China yesterday raised interest rates by 25 basis points to
curb inflation in the world’s fastest-growing major economy. The
increase in one-year lending and deposit rates was the fourth
since the end of the global financial crisis.  U.S. policy makers must watch inflation “extremely
closely” for signs rising commodity costs are having more than
a temporary impact on consumer prices, Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday.  Crude inventories in the U.S. probably rose 2 million
barrels in the week ended April 1, from 355.7 million
previously, according to the median estimate of 15 analysts
before the Energy Department’s report today. Yesterday, the
industry-funded American Petroleum Institute said supplies fell
2.8 million barrels to 354.3 million.  Libya   Rebels in Libya retreated from the central oil port of
Brega under heavy artillery fire from forces loyal to Muammar Qaddafi, as the opposition prepared to export crude for the
first time since the conflict began on Feb. 15. Libya, a member
of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is
 Africa ’s third-largest producer.  The Equator, an oil tanker that can carry 1 million
barrels, arrived at the Marsa al Hariga terminal near the port
of Tobruk in opposition-controlled eastern Libya at about 2 p.m.
local time yesterday, according to AISLive Ltd. ship-tracking
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Libyan conflict is the bloodiest in a wave of uprisings
that has toppled the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt and spread to
Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman, Syria and Yemen.  Brent crude ,
against which Libyan supplies are priced, has jumped 24 percent
since the ouster of Tunisian President Zine Abidine Ben Ali on
Jan. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  