-- 
Oil Drops First Day in Four on Signs U.S. Demand Easing as Supplies Gain

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-04-05T12:17:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/oil-drops-first-day-in-four-on-signs-u-s-demand-easing-as-supplies-gain.html
Crude fell from its highest in more
than 30 months as forecasts for growing inventories in the U.S.
and an interest-rate increase in  China  fanned concern that
demand in the world’s two biggest oil consumers may slow.  Futures slid as much as 0.9 percent in  New York  before a
report tomorrow that may show supplies increased by 1 million
barrels last week, and after China’s central bank raised one-
year lending and deposit rates. Prices also fell after the New
York Times reported that sons of  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi are
seeking his ouster, stoking speculation that the fighting that
has crippled the country’s oil exports may ease.  “China just has to keep putting the brakes on, as
inflation is too high,” said Axel Herlinghaus, Frankfurt-based
senior commodities analyst at DZ Bank AG, which trades crude in
 London  and New York. “This could reduce demand at the margin.”  Oil for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
dropped as much as 97 cents to $107.50 a barrel and was at
$107.95 at 12:45 p.m. London time. It traded as high as $108.78
a barrel yesterday, the front-month contract’s highest price
since Sept. 24, 2008. Brent for May settlement fell as much as
$1.11, or 0.9 percent, to $119.95 a barrel on London’s ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The contract rose to $121.29 a barrel
yesterday, the highest since Aug. 4, 2008.  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $12.60 a
barrel to U.S. West Texas Intermediate futures. The difference
between front-month contracts in London and New York surged to a
record $19.54 on Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the Middle East and
North  Africa  and supplies climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for WTI.  China  Interest Rates   China raised interest rates by 25 basis points, the fourth
increase since the global financial crisis, to restrain
inflation in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  The increase “might put a brake on growth in oil demand in
China,”  Paul Harris , head of natural resources risk management
at Bank of Ireland in Dublin, said by phone.  In Libya, at least two of Qaddafi’s sons are proposing a
plan to move him from power and oversee a democratic transition
under his son, Saif al-Islam, the New York Times reported
yesterday, citing an unidentified diplomat and Libyan official.  Libya was Africa’s third-largest producer before the
conflict began, pumping 1.6 million barrels a day in January,
according to Bloomberg estimates. Output has slumped to a
“trickle,” the  International Energy Agency  said last month.  Gabon Strikes End  The unrest in Libya and Yemen is the latest in a wave of
uprisings that has toppled the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and
spread to Algeria, Bahrain, Oman and Syria. Brent has climbed 22
percent since the ouster of Tunisian President Zine El Abidine
Ben Ali on Jan. 14.  Companies including  Total SA (FP)  operating in the West African
nation of Gabon resumed production after a strike. “We should
get back to normal production by today,” Phenelope Semavoine, a
Paris-based spokeswoman for Total, said by phone.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Tullow Oil Plc and Vaalco Energy
Inc. also said output was returning to normal. Crude output in
Gabon averaged 240,000 barrels a day in 2010, the International
Energy Agency said on March 15.  Stockpiles in the U.S. increased 0.3 percent in the seven
days ended April 1 from 355.7 million a week earlier, according
to the median of nine analyst estimates before the report
tomorrow. Eight of the respondents forecast a gain and one a
decline. The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
publish its own data today. Stockpiles at Cushing surged to a
record last month.  Inventories of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably increased 500,000 barrels from
153.3 million, the survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  