-- 
Money Market Rates Fall to Year Lows on FDIC Fee Increase, T-Bill Dearth

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-04-05T23:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/money-market-rates-fall-to-year-lows-on-fdic-s-fee-increase-t-bill-dearth.html
U.S. money market rates dropped to
about one-year lows as a change in deposit insurance fees makes
some banks reluctant to lend securities and the Treasury reduces
issuance of bills to avoid exceeding the debt limit.  The average rate for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, fell to 0.09 percent yesterday, the lowest
since June. The rate was 0.18 at the start of the year. The
average  rate for borrowing  and lending Treasuries for one day in
the repurchase agreement market fell to 0.028 percent, the
lowest since at least May 3, 2010, or as far back as index data
is provided by the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. began last week to
adjust calculations of U.S. banks’ deposit insurance fees to
being on all liabilities rather than just domestic deposits. The
Treasury has cut the amount of Supplementary Financing Program
bills, or SFPs, it sells on behalf of the  Federal Reserve  by
$195 billion to help avoid exceeding the U.S. debt limit.  “The new FDIC assessment structure, while intended to
better protect taxpayers from large  bank failures , has distorted
activity in the short-term rates markets,” Brian Smedley, a
strategist in New York at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in
an interview. “This change will discourage opportunistic
borrowing by insured banks in the fed funds and repo markets in
particular, as banks will avoid leveraging their balance sheets
unnecessarily to reduce the fees they pay the FDIC.”  Depositor Protection  The FDIC wants to fund depositor protection while shifting
the burden to larger lenders whose reliance on riskier funding
may pose greater threats to the financial system. The move came
in response to the Dodd-Frank Act’s financial-regulatory
overhaul.  The FDIC doesn’t intend to modify the rule and said markets
were given amble time to consider the rule before it was
implemented and that the adjustment may prove to have positive
effects on credit availability, Reuters reported. Greg Hernandez,
an FDIC spokesman in  Washington , didn’t immediately respond to
telephone requests for comment on the fee adjustment.  Six-month Treasury bill rates declined to a record low of
0.1099 percent yesterday. The rate increased about 3 basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point today, to 0.14 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. Three-month bill rates
fell to a 13-month low of 0.03 percent yesterday.  The DTCC index is a weighted average of all general-
collateral repo transactions during a day. The DTCC processes
about $3.6 trillion in repos transactions daily.  Overnight Rates  Government securities  that can be borrowed in the repo
market at rates close to the Fed’s target are said to be trading
at the general collateral rate. Since dealers typically use
repurchase agreements to finance their holdings, movements in
the rates affect the cost of holding the securities in inventory
and other  interest rates .  The drop in overnight rates has come even with the Fed’s
target rate for overnight loans between banks at a record low
range of zero to 0.25 percent and as some policy makers call for
higher rates.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said last week
the economy may improve quickly enough that the central bank
would need to raise borrowing costs before year-end, while
Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said the funds
rate may need to rise 75 basis points by late 2011. St. Louis
Fed President  James Bullard  said the central bank may need to
curtail its $600 billion bond purchase program before June.  ‘Less Control’  “The drop in money market rates does not help the Fed,”
said Thomas Simons , a government-debt economist in  New York  at
primary dealer Jefferies Group Inc. “As far as their
projections on what they can do in a tightening situation -- it
certainly doesn’t help them to have less control over what they
are doing now.”  The Fed pays banks 0.25 percent on excess reserves held at
the central bank.  The amount of banks’ excess reserves held at
the central bank above required rose to $1.366 trillion from
$1.218 trillion a month ago as the Fed’s Treasury purchase
program boosted cash in the banking system. The Fed began paying
interest on the reserves in October 2008 in an attempt to keep
the benchmark U.S. overnight interest rate traded in the market
close to the target set by policy makers.  The U.S. will reach its legal debt limit no later than May
16 unless Congress reaches an agreement on the budget, Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday. Congress must
agree on spending for this fiscal year or risk a government
shutdown when current spending authority ends April 8.  ‘Into Overdrive’  The rate on three-month bills rose to 0.07 percent today
down from as high this year of 0.1572 percent on Feb. 1 and
0.0913 on March 31. One-month bill rates were at 0.0203 percent.  “The cut in SFP bills and the change in the FDIC
assessment fees have sent the front end into overdrive, with
rates falling,” said Kenneth Silliman, New York-based head of
short-term rates trading at TD Securities Inc. “The threat of
destabilization of the money markets is not a positive for the
Fed and many  money market funds  we speak with are growing quite
concerned that rates will decline further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  