-- 
Hong Kong’s $2.8 Billion Art Hub to Close Property Price Gap

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-04-05T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/hong-kong-s-2-8-billion-art-hub-to-close-property-price-gap.html
Hong Kong’s $2.8 billion plan for an
 arts hub  in West Kowloon may cement the area’s status as a
luxury neighborhood to rival high-end established suburbs across
Victoria Harbour.  The 40-hectare (99-acre) West Kowloon Cultural District, to
be designed by  Norman Foster , the architect behind  London ’s
Gherkin tower, will be flanked by Hong Kong’s  tallest skyscraper 
and the terminal for an express railway to cities in  China .
Foster’s selection ended almost 10 years of wrangling between 
the government, developers and art groups that had held up the 
area’s transformation.  “If you take into account West Kowloon’s location and all
the transportation links that’ll be available in the future, its
potential is huge,” said David Ji, Hong Kong-based head of
research for North Asia property consultant DTZ. “It’ll be the
first stop for many mainland visitors to Hong Kong, and their
spending power is enormous.”  Foster’s plan for gardens, hotels, theaters and restaurants
will replace undeveloped reclaimed land that now mars West
Kowloon’s harbor frontage. Back from the water, luxury
apartments including  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) ’s The Arch and
Hang Lung Properties Ltd.’s HarbourSide, have been built, along
with the International Commerce Centre, which lured Morgan
Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG to move
their local headquarters from Central on Hong Kong Island.  Expensive Apartments  Apartments in the West Kowloon district cost more than
twice those in the east London districts of  Canary Wharf  and
Wapping, an area that lured investment banks from the  City of
London  after Britain’s tallest office tower was built there in
the 1980s.  A 1,000-square foot apartment in West Kowloon costs an
average HK$15 million ($1.9 million), according to Wong Leung-
sing, a research director at Centaline Property Agency Ltd.,
Hong Kong’s biggest closely held realtor. A two-bedroom
apartment in the east London areas is 531,000 pounds ($850,000),
according to Savills Plc, the U.K.’s largest property broker.  Home prices  in Hong Kong rose at the fastest pace globally
in the fourth quarter, gaining 20 percent from a year earlier,
according to the Knight Frank Global House  Price Index . U.K.
home prices climbed 0.7 percent in the period.  ‘A Good Mix’  About 36 percent of the real estate in the 17-venue West
Kowloon harbor-front development will be venues for visual and
performing arts, galleries and studios, according to Colin Ward,
a Hong Kong-based partner at  Foster & Partners , whose master
plan for the project was chosen by a government-appointed
committee last month. The rest will be hotels, housing and
commercial buildings, he said.  The site, which juts into Victoria Harbour in front of the
ICC and to the east is adjacent to the Tsim Sha Tsui shopping
hub, will feature venues including a modern-art museum, opera
house, 19-hectare green park and shopping malls.  “It’s not just about culture,” said Ward in an interview.
“We’re making it a place where people want to go to. We’re
taking that and putting culture into it so we get a good mix. We
don’t want it to be a place just for the enlightened and
privileged.”  The project will add to a stable of work by Foster in the
former British colony, including  HSBC Holdings Plc’s (5)  local
headquarters and Hong Kong International Airport.  ‘Critical Mass’  The area is about a 10 minute train ride from Central and
within walking distance to Tsim Sha Tsui, which houses some of
the city’s biggest museums and existing performing arts venue.
The government plans to erect at least two multistory office
buildings atop the  express railway  terminal in West Kowloon when
the project is finished by 2015.  “By the time the art hub is set up there should already be
a critical mass of office spaces, shopping malls, residential
buildings to turn the area into a core commercial and tourist
district,” said Simon Lo, Hong Kong-based director of research
at Colliers International.  Average home prices in West Kowloon are HK$9,774 per square
foot, having caught up with the HK$9,869 for the Western and
Central districts on  Hong Kong Island , including Mid-Levels,
traditionally favored for its proximity to Central.  The development is expected to be finished in phases from
as early as 2015, Hong Kong’s Chief Secretary for Administration
 Henry Tang  said on March 4. The initial proposal was originated
as early as 1998 by the administration of former Chief Executive
Tung Chee-hwa.  ‘Real Potential’  The government began selling reclaimed land in the district
for luxury apartments during the late 1990s and early 2000s, as
part of a plan to spruce up areas along the railway and freeway
connecting Central to the new airport on  Lantau Island ,
according to Eddie Hui, a professor in the building and real
estate department of  Hong Kong  Polytechnic University.  “There’re a real potential for both commercial rents and
residential prices to go up even more with the addition of all
this hardware,” said Lo at Colliers, the Seattle-based property
broker. “The area has already come a long way.”  West Kowloon lies to the west of Yau Ma Tei and  Mong Kok ,
former blue-collar areas housing factory, dockyard and fruit
market workers. Today they are bustling, middle-class shopping
districts for everything from cooking equipment to sneakers and
jewelry, electronics and pirated compact discs. Mong Kok, one of
the most densely populated areas in the world, is home to the
city’s biggest red-light district.  ‘City Park’  The government set up the West Kowloon Cultural District
Authority to oversee the development in 2006 after the project
was halted because the three bidding consortiums -- including a
joint-venture by Sun Hung Kai and  Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. ,
the city’s two biggest developers -- failed to agree to the
amended plan.  Named “City Park” primarily because of the inclusion of
the green park and a 2.2 kilometer (1.4 mile) seafront promenade,
the plan by Foster’s London-based firm beat proposals by Hong
Kong-based Rocco Design Architects Ltd. and Office for
Metropolitan Architecture, Rem Koolhaas’s Rotterdam-based outfit.
Koolhaas helped design the CCTV Tower in Beijing.  The three, each paid HK$49 million by the government for
their designs, were short-listed from among 12 firms which were
in turn picked from a pool of 109. Foster was also behind the
original design shelved in 2006 that featured a giant canopy
covering parts of the art hub.  Elements from the two losing designs may be incorporated to
Foster’s master plan, said Ronald Arculli, chairman of the Hong
Kong stock exchange and a member of the committee responsible
for the selection.  Tourism Impact  While the benefits for West Kowloon are undisputed, the art
hub’s contribution to Hong Kong’s overall economy are
questionable, said Bob McKercher, a professor at The Hong Kong
Polytechnic University’s school of hotel & tourism management.  “This will be a project that will benefit mostly the local
population and artists,” he said. “Normally, an art hub
project of this sort only has limited impact on tourism unless
there’re certain thematically driven festivals.”  The number of Chinese visitors rose 26 percent in 2010 to
22.7 million and is expected to gain another 10 percent this
year, according to the city’s tourism board. Chinese buyers
accounted for more than a third of new luxury home purchases in
the second half of 2010, according to Centaline Property Agency
Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held real-estate agency.  “The area is going to get only more popular among
mainland visitors,” said  Simon Smith , Hong Kong-based head of
Asian research in Hong Kong at London-based Savills Plc. Luxury
home prices in popular areas such as Mid-Levels and Happy Valley
on the Hong Kong Island “will find it hard to keep up with that
of West Kowloon.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  