-- 
Monte Paschi Said to Win Largest Shareholder's Backing for Rights Offering

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-04-05T12:53:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/monte-paschi-said-to-win-backing-of-its-main-investor-for-rights-offering.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) 
may call a board meeting next week to approve a rights offer,
after it gained the support of its main shareholder, two people
familiar with the situation said.  Italy’s third biggest bank may raise about 2 billion euros
($2.8 billion) selling new shares to existing investors to
strengthen finances before it reimburses state aid, according to
the people, who declined to be identified because the matter
isn’t public.  Fondazione Monte dei Paschi di Siena , which owns
46 percent of the Siena-based lender’s common stock, backed the
sale at a meeting yesterday, they said.  Monte Paschi, which showed the weakest result among Italian
banks in European stress tests last year, is cutting costs and
selling assets because it has to repay a 1.9 billion-euro
government bond by 2013. The bank isn’t ruling out a rights
offer to “optimize its capital,” Chief Financial Officer Marco Massacesi said in a March 29 interview.  Fondazione Monte Paschi would use bank loans or the sale of
non-strategic equity holdings to fund the purchase of its shares
in the eventual rights offer, one of the people said. The
disposals may include a 0.4 percent stake in Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA,  Italy ’s second-largest lender, and as much as a 5 percent
stake of Monte Paschi’s saving shares, according to the people.  “Monte Paschi is a leveraged play once the low capital
position is addressed,” Marcello Zanardo, an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein who has an “outperform” rating on the stock,
wrote in a report today.  Officials at Monte Paschi and Fondazione Monte Paschi
declined to comment on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  