-- 
Optimer Wins FDA Panel’s Backing for Antibiotic Fidaxomicin

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-05T21:49:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/optimer-wins-fda-advisory-panel-s-backing-for-fidaxomicin-1-.html
Optimer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OPTR)  won a
U.S. panel’s unanimous backing for an antibiotic that fights a
deadly bacterium linked to intestinal infections often caught in
hospitals.  The drug, fidaxomicin, is safe and effective for curing
such illnesses, outside advisers to the  Food and Drug
Administration  said today in a 13-0 vote in  Silver Spring ,
 Maryland . The panel later split on whether the drug works better
than standard treatments in preventing relapses. The FDA usually
follows its advisory panels’ recommendations.  Fidaxomicin would be San Diego-based Optimer’s initial
product and the first drug cleared in more than 25 years for
Clostridium difficile, which can cause severe diarrhea and
attack the lining of the colon. The germ sickens about  500,000
people  a year in the U.S. and kills about 30,000, according to
the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .  The results of clinical trials “were very positive,”
panel member  Christina Surawicz , a professor at the  University
of Washington  School of Medicine in  Seattle , said before the
vote. “I have no reservations.”  Sales of fidaxomicin may reach $250 million by 2016,  George Farmer , an analyst at Canaccord Adams Inc. in  New York , said
April 1 in a note to investors. The FDA appears “highly
predisposed” to approve the drug, said Farmer, who recommends
buying Optimer shares.  Optimer lost 32 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $13.48 at 5:28
p.m. New York time in extended trading on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. Trading was halted during today’s FDA panel meeting.  Recurrence Data  Optimer rose 11 percent -- the most in 22 months -- on
April 1 after FDA  staff reviewers  said fidaxomicin is as
effective as  ViroPharma Inc. (VPHM) ’s vancomycin in curing illnesses
and prevented more recurrences in clinical trials.  The advisory panel tied, 6-6, with one abstention, on
whether it was clinically significant that patients on
fidaxomicin were less likely to have suffered relapses 31 days
after starting treatment. Surawicz, the abstaining member, later
asked to be recorded as a “no” vote.  A finding that the recurrence data lacked clinical
significance wouldn’t prevent the drug from being approved,
Edward Cox, director of the FDA’s Office of Antimicrobial
Products, told reporters after the meeting. If the agency does
clear the drug, it will consider the panel’s vote in deciding
what the drug’s label should say about the potential to cut
relapse risks, he said.  Labeling Discussion  “I think we’ll be in a good position to have a fruitful
discussion with the agency” about the label, Sherwood Gorbach,
Optimer’s chief scientific officer, told reporters after the
meeting. “We’ve got to find the right language.”  The FDA is evaluating fidaxomicin under a six-month
priority review and aims to make a decision by May 30. While the
FDA typically takes at least 10 months to rule on drug
applications, it grants  priority status  to therapies that may
provide major advances in treatment.  C. difficile is the most common cause of hospital-acquired
diarrhea, Gorbach said in a March 31 interview.  People over the age of 65 are among those  at risk  for C.
difficile illnesses, according to the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,
 Minnesota . Infections often strike after a patient is treated
with antibiotics that destroy the so-called good bacteria
normally found in the intestine. About 25 percent of patients
suffer  relapses .  Enzyme Inhibitor  Fidaxomicin is the first in a new class of antibiotics that
kill harmful bacteria by inhibiting an enzyme known as RNA
polymerase without weakening the normal intestinal flora,
according to a fact sheet from Optimer.  An Optimer-funded study of 548 patients found that
infections subsided in 88 percent of those treated with
fidaxomicin and 86 percent of those taking vancomycin, the only
drug approved by the FDA for C. difficile infections.  Fidaxomicin also cut the recurrence rate by almost half,
according to a Feb. 2 report in the  New England Journal of
Medicine . About 13 percent of patients who took Optimer’s drug
suffered relapses, compared with 24 percent of those treated
with vancomycin.  FDA staff said in last week’s report that they agreed with
the company’s conclusions about the drug’s efficacy, and found
that the overall incidence of side effects with fidaxomicin was
similar to that of vancomycin.  Vancomycin, approved by the FDA for C. difficile in 1986
under the brand name Vancocin, is one of two standard C.
difficile treatments. The other is an unapproved use of
metronidazole, sold by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  as Flagyl and available in
generic form. ViroPharma bought Vancocin from  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  in
2004.  Broad-Spectrum Antibiotics  Metronidazole and vancomycin are broad-spectrum antibiotics
that disrupt the intestine’s normal protective bacteria, leaving
patients vulnerable to relapse, Gorbach said in the interview.  Optimer hasn’t determined yet how much it will charge for
fidaxomicin, he said. While it will probably cost patients more
than metronidazole and vancomycin, it may reduce long-term
health costs by cutting the number of relapses, Gorbach said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Silver Spring, Maryland at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  