-- 
Mortgage Servicers Said to Agree to Fix Foreclosure Procedures

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-04-05T20:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/mortgage-servicers-said-to-agree-to-fix-foreclosure-procedures.html
The largest U.S. mortgage servicers
began signing agreements with regulators to improve procedures
after federal investigations found they conducted foreclosures
without proper review or complete documentation, two people with
direct knowledge of the negotiations said.  The consent decrees, which could be signed by as many as 14
servicers including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
require companies to strengthen their systems for handling
foreclosure documents and communicating with borrowers who are
behind on their payments, said two people briefed on the matter,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the agreements
aren’t public. The deals also require firms to improve auditing
and risk-management practices, the people said.  One of the people said the agreements also would assign
responsibility to boards of directors to supervise loan
servicing more closely.  The agreements don’t include fines, the people said.
Banking regulators issuing the consent decrees -- the Federal
Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the
Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. -- are moving forward with procedural remedies while
continuing negotiations over possible monetary penalties, they
said.  Separate negotiations on lapses in foreclosure procedures
are continuing between state attorneys general, federal
authorities and the banks. Attorneys general have said they are
seeking a 50-state settlement that includes fines and possible
reductions in principal for troubled mortgages.  Robo-Signing  The consent decrees are the first sanctions to arise from
last fall’s investigation of so-called robo-signing, in which
mortgage servicers and their contractors approved thousands of
foreclosure documents without verifying their accuracy. Banks
temporarily suspended foreclosures after homeowners and their
lawyers complained of illegal evictions and improper fees.  In addition to Bank of America and Wells Fargo, federal
regulators examined foreclosure procedures at Aurora Bank FSB,
EverBank Financial Corp., Ally Financial Inc.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , OneWest,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  MetLife Inc. (MET) ,
 PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , Sovereign Bank,  SunTrust
Banks Inc. (STI) ,  US Bancorp (USB) , Acting Comptroller John Walsh said Feb.
17.  The OCC sent cease-and-desist orders to servicers in
February, according to a person familiar with the matter who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the orders had not been
made public.  Walsh said in February that the OCC and other federal
banking agencies were “in the process of finalizing actions”
to impose “remedial requirements and sanctions” on mortgage
servicers.  “We expect that our actions will comprehensively address
servicers’ identified deficiencies and will hold servicers to
standards that require effective and proactive risk management
of servicing operations, and appropriate remediation for
customers who have been financially harmed by defects in
servicers’ standards and procedures,” Walsh said in testimony
to the Senate Banking Committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ; 