-- 
Hot Market in Picasso Mistress May See $35 Million at Sotheby’s

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-04-05T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/hot-market-in-picasso-teen-mistress-may-see-35-million-sale-at-sotheby-s.html
A 1934 Pablo Picasso painting of
his mistress may fetch as much as $35 million at  Sotheby’s (BID)  in
 New York  next month as auction houses aim to capitalize on
buyers’ appetite for iconic 20th-century art.  “Femmes Lisant (Deux Personnages)” depicts Marie-Therese
Walter as a blue-faced, supple figure reading a book with
another woman. It’s the top lot in Sotheby’s Impressionist and
modern art sale on May 3. The evening auction is expected to
tally more than $150 million, the New York-based company said.  The market in this mistress has surged in the past year.
The 1932 “Nude,  Green Leaves  and Bust” went for $106.5 million
-- a record for any work of art at auction -- at Christie’s
International in New York last May. Sotheby’s in  London  sold the
1932 “La Lecture” for 25.2 million pounds ($40.6 million) in
February. Gagosian gallery will open the  “Picasso and Marie-
Therese: L’amour fou”  exhibition on April 14 in New York’s
Chelsea district.  “These are images of desire and rapture,” said Simon
Shaw, senior vice president and head of Sotheby’s Impressionist
and modern art department in New York. Referring to “La
Lecture,” he said, “the picture we just sold generated a huge
competition; there were seven bidders.”  “Femmes Lisant,” with its vibrant palette and at least
one sexual innuendo, was consigned by an anonymous private
collector who bought it in 1981 from the Pace Gallery in New
York. It had originally come from the Picasso estate.  Married and 45, Picasso spotted Walter in 1927 on a Paris
street when she was 17. She would be the artist’s greatest love
for the next decade, inspiring numerous paintings and
sculptures, according to John Richardson, Picasso’s biographer.  ‘Blond, Sexy, Round’  “She was young, blond, sexy, round, accommodating,” said
Michael Findlay, director of New York’s  Acquavella Galleries ,
which organized “Picasso’s Marie-Therese” exhibition in 2008.  Most of the top Marie-Therese paintings at auction have
been dated 1932, the year of Picasso’s big retrospective at
Galeries Georges Petit in Paris.  The Marie-Therese period hasn’t always been considered
Picasso’s finest hour, said Findlay. This changed after “Le
Reve,” a sensual, richly colored 1932 portrait of a sleeping
Marie-Therese, hit the auction block as part of the collection
of Victor and Sally Ganz in 1997. It sold for $48 million.  “Everyone wanted to buy the ‘The Dream,’” said Findlay.
“It was a standout among the new generation of collectors,”
including  Francois Pinault ,  Bernard Arnault ,  Steven A. Cohen  and
Stephen A. Wynn, who currently owns the work.  “Femmes Lisant” is one of 10 Picasso lots that will be
offered during the Sotheby’s evening sale. Another highlight is
“Couple a la guitare,” showing a man serenading his lover
(Picasso’s last wife, Jacqueline). Painted in 1970, it could
fetch as much as $15 million.  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 