-- 
Motorola Solutions Targets $1 Billion Public-Network Orders

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-04-05T20:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/motorola-solutions-ceo-targets-1-billion-public-safety-orders-after-split.html
Motorola Solutions Inc., having spun
off its mobile-phone unit, is focusing on winning contracts for
public-safety communications networks worth more than $1 billion
in the U.S. and Middle East, its chief executive officer said.  The company has won two contracts to build emergency
networks using faster LTE, or long-term evolution, technology in
 California  and  Texas  and is investing in the business to be
among the leaders when “broadband becomes a reality to public
safety,” CEO  Greg Brown  said.  “We’ve identified projects that are a billion plus in the
funnel that we have to work on and close in the next few
years,” Brown said today in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York. The U.S. and  Saudi Arabia  are among
the markets the Schaumburg, Illinois-based company is focusing
on, he said.  Brown said he’s free to concentrate on that business and
spend more time with customers after completing the spinoff of
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. as a separate, publicly traded
company. Since the Jan. 4 split, Motorola Mobility has dropped
21 percent on the  New York  Stock Exchange while Motorola
Solutions has climbed 18 percent.  “One of the best things about the separation is it
highlights Motorola Solutions and what we do,” he said. Brown,
50, was previously co-CEO of Motorola Inc. alongside Sanjay Jha,
who now heads Motorola Mobility.  “When Motorola was together and we would talk about the
business, it would be 90 percent about cellphones and
smartphones and tablets,” Brown said.  Motorola Solutions fell 13 cents to $44.17 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  China Deal Review  Brown is also trying to dispose of the company’s mobile-
phone network equipment business in a $1.2 billion sale to Nokia
Siemens Networks, announced in July. While the deal has been
approved by U.S. and European Union regulators, the Chinese
government has extended its review of the transaction by another
60 days, Nokia Siemens said March 9.  Nokia Siemens, a joint venture between  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and
 Siemens AG (SIE) , is seeking to renegotiate the deal, two people close
to the situation said last month. The company wants to exclude
the Global System for Mobile communications, or GSM, unit from
the acquisition and renegotiate the price accordingly in order
to win China’s approval, one of the people said.  Brown declined to comment on whether Nokia Siemens has
asked for renegotiations. He reiterated that Motorola Solutions
aims to close the deal by the end of June, while stopping short
of saying he’s certain it will happen by then.  “We are trying to close the deal and we are hopeful we can
get that done,” Brown said. “We will see ultimately what
happens and what is required.”  Huawei Dispute  Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s biggest maker of
telecommunications equipment, sued Motorola and Nokia Siemens
Jan. 24, saying Motorola hadn’t provided assurances that it
would prevent disclosures about Huawei technology and products
to Nokia Siemens. Motorola has sold Huawei’s wireless-network
products under the Motorola name since 2000.  Motorola Solutions agreed to protect Huawei’s intellectual
property as part of the terms of their contract and will abide
by that even if assets are sold, Brown said.  “Of course we’d protect the confidentiality of any nature
associated with that joint venture,” he said. “As a result, we
shouldn’t be limited in our ability to transfer or sell those
assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  