-- 
Ouattara’s Bid to Unite Ivory Coast Hindered by Outside Help to Finish War

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n ,   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   J a s o n   M c l u r e
-- 
2011-04-06T12:45:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/ouattara-s-bid-to-unite-ivory-coast-hindered-by-outside-help-to-finish-war.html
Alassane Ouattara  is on the verge of
winning the military battle to control  Ivory Coast . The
challenge of healing ethnic and regional divisions in the
world’s top cocoa producer may prove to be a more daunting task.  The incumbent leader, Laurent Gbagbo, began negotiating an
exit after French and United Nations forces destroyed most of
his army’s heavy weapons. While those bombing raids accelerated
the end of a four-month crisis triggered by a Nov. 28 election
that the international community says Ouattara won, they may
also hinder his task of forming a unity government.  “The country is severely polarized,” said Anne Fruhauf,
Africa analyst for Eurasia Group in  London . “It looks like
we’re going to have a quite a rough few months of transition.”
The French and UN strikes “will make it harder to convince the
southern population, which has been fed a decade of virulent
propaganda, that Ouattara is not a crony of the western
powers.”  Ouattara will assume power with the country’s cocoa
industry, the source of more than a third of export earnings,
largely intact. About a third of the country’s 2010-11 crop has
been stockpiled near the port of Abidjan, the commercial
capital. A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest container-
shipping line, said it would be able to send vessels as soon as
European Union lifted sanctions it imposed in January.  Cocoa Falls  Cocoa for July fell $4, or 0.1 percent, to $2,989 a metric
ton at 8:39 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York . Prices for the
chocolate ingredient have risen as much as 34 percent since the
disputed election, advancing to a 32-year high of $3,775 a
metric ton on March 4.  Ivory Coast’s defaulted dollar-denominated bond gained 7.7
percent to 55.44 cents on the dollar at 11:57 a.m. in Abidjan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  EU governments banned lending to Gbagbo’s “illegitimate”
government and the purchase of bonds or other securities from
it, according to an e-mailed statement in Brussels today.  Gbagbo remains in a bunker under his residence, which was
surrounded by pro-Ouattara Republican Forces. Gunfire broke out
in the neighborhood and near the Agban military camp in Deux-
Plateaux district at about 6:30 a.m. today.  Battle Continues  “Fighting is ongoing,” Republican Forces spokesman Meite
Sindou said by phone. “The talks last night didn’t bring any
results.”  Residents stayed at home as the battle continued.  “Heavy artillery is being used near Agban,” resident
Stephane Mondon said today. “It’s very loud and very violent.
The cease-fire is not being respected by Gbagbo’s army.”  Gbagbo yesterday accused France of intervening in the
crisis, saying it “entered directly into war against the  Ivory
Coast .”  While he would be willing to leave Ivory Coast “if my
departure brings peace to my country,” Gbagbo said in an
interview with the Paris-based LCI TV news channel, it’s “far
from proven” that it would end the conflict. There’s “no
agreement on the political front,” Gbabgo said, and he still
believed Ouattara didn’t win the president election.  ‘I Like Life’  Gbagbo said his actions weren’t those of a “kamikaze”.
“I like life,” he told LCI. “This is not the voice of a
martyr.”  French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe today accused Gbagbo of
“absurd stubbornness” and urged him to quit.  “He’s alone, isolated in a bunker. He must face reality
and leave,” Juppe said on the Paris-based  France  Info radio
station. “The only thing left to negotiate are the conditions
of Gbagbo’s departure.”  Gbagbo “doesn’t have a choice”, Admiral Edouard Guillaud,
France’s Chief of Defense Staff, said in an interview with
Paris-based Europe 1 television station today. “It’s a question
of hours. Exile is probable.”  Ivory Coast’s broader economic rebound will depend on the
return of political stability.  “Ouattara has a very big and difficult political task,”
Rinaldo Depagne, a Dakar-based analyst for the  International
Crisis Group , said in a telephone interview yesterday. “He will
have to deal with Gbagbo hardliners who may want to launch
guerrilla attacks. He’s got to end the military phase of the
crisis.”  Youth Militia  With thousands of heavily armed youth militia still at
large on the streets of Abidjan, an immediate end to the
violence is unlikely.  The UN put the death toll from post-election violence at
494 before the fight for Abidjan began. At least 800 more were
also killed in the western town of Duekoue after it fell to
Ouattara’s troops, according to the International Committee of
the Red Cross.  Ouattara’s Justice Ministry denied the involvement of their
forces in the massacre and called for an international
investigation.  Duekoue was on the front-line of the civil war that was
sparked when a law before 2000 elections disqualified Ouattara
and other candidates if either of their parents weren’t born in
Ivory Coast. Ouattara’s main supporters were workers on cocoa
and coffee farms who had immigrated from  Mali  and  Burkina Faso .
In September 2002, mainly northern troops mutinied, dividing the
country in two. A cease-fire was signed in 2004.  Ethnic Factions  “The conflict in Ivory Coast has never been between
Ouattara and  Laurent Gbagbo  alone,” Sebastian Spio-Garbrah,
Africa analyst at DaMina Advisors LLP in New York, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The conflict is largely between
political and ethnic factions. A strong faction of the Abidjan
population and the southern population would remain intractably
opposed to Ouattara.”  Banks including Societe Generale SA,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) 
and Citigroup Inc. and  oil companies  such as OAO Lukoil and
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. suspended their operations in Ivory
Coast as the political crisis intensified this year. They will
need assurances that violence has ceased before returning.  “We’re monitoring the situation in real time,” Societe
Generale spokeswoman  Laura Schalk  said in telephone interview
from Paris yesterday. “The safety of our staff and clients
remains our primary concern.”  Normal Activity  Cluff Gold Plc (CLF) , a U.K. developer of  gold mines  in West
Africa whose operations in Ivory Coast were disrupted by the
turmoil, also said it was too soon to say when the situation
would normalize.  Randgold Resources Ltd., a  Jersey , Channel Islands-based
mining company, said its Tongon gold mine in the north of the
country has continued to function throughout the turmoil.  “We have very strong relationships with the northern
authorities,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Bristow  said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “We’ve operated as normally as
you can in a difficult situation. We’re looking forward to the
resumption of normal activity in Cote d’Ivoire.”  Melbourne-based Newcrest Mining Ltd., which suspended
operations at its Bonikro gold mine, about 250 kilometers (155
miles) northwest of Abidjan on March 31, said they would resume
“when it is safe and secure to do so.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Jason McLure in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 