-- 
House Republicans Unveil Budget Plan With $6 Trillion of Cuts Over Decade

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-04-05T23:21:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/house-republicans-unveil-budget-plan-with-6-trillion-of-cuts-over-decade.html
U.S. House Republicans today
unveiled a plan to overhaul the federal budget and slash the
deficit in coming years by about three-quarters, with a $6
trillion cut in spending and 25 percent cap on tax rates.  The Republicans’ first comprehensive budget plan since the
November elections would cut the deficit next year to $995
billion from about $1.4 trillion now, though it wouldn’t balance
the government’s books until 2040.  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s plan relies on
spending cuts to reduce the red ink, slicing more than $6
trillion over the next decade out of Medicare, Medicaid, food
stamps and scores of other programs. At the same time, his
proposal calls for cutting taxes, with the top corporate and
individual tax rates set at 25 percent.  “We believe that we have the moral responsibility to step
in and provide the leadership that the president has not been
providing,” Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, told reporters today
in Washington. “He punted on debt reduction. We’re not going to
do that.”  The plan escalates Washington’s budget wars, where
lawmakers for months have been debating funding levels for the
remainder of the current fiscal year. Ryan’s proposal presents
substantial political risk for congressional Republicans and
their prospective presidential candidates because Democrats are
sure to pounce on proposed cuts to popular government programs
in next year’s elections.  ‘Honest Debate’  “We owe it to the country to give them an honest debate,”
Ryan said. “We cannot keep going down the path of fearing what
the other political party will do to us if we try to solve a
problem.”  While public opinion polls show that Americans want
Congress to bring down the deficit, they want it done without
harming entitlements such as Medicare and Social Security or
many discretionary spending programs. Yet it’s the soaring cost
of entitlements that represents the biggest threat to the
government’s long-term financial standing, according to the
nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , whose
committee has jurisdiction over tax and entitlement programs,
denounced Ryan’s budget, saying it would “end Medicare as we
know it.”  No More Guarantees  “Seniors’ coverage would be cut drastically, benefits
would no longer be guaranteed and seniors’ costs would
skyrocket,” said Baucus, a Montana Democrat. “We can’t allow
the House to balance the budget on the backs of seniors, and we
won’t.”  Ryan’s budget would set the top individual and corporate
tax rates at 25 percent, the same level that House Ways and
Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp  is seeking. Both rates are
now 35 percent, and the top individual rate is scheduled to rise
to 39.6 percent in 2013, when tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003
expire.  The lawmakers’ annual budget lays out their agenda for the
year, though it wouldn’t make any changes in tax and spending
laws. That would require subsequent legislation, which could end
up different from the plan outlined by Ryan.  His proposal calls for phasing out the traditional Medicare
program and replacing it with a plan to provide individuals with
subsidies to buy private health insurance. Payments would be
offered on a sliding scale, with the poor and sick getting more
and the wealthy getting less. It would only apply to those now
under age 55 to spare current beneficiaries as well as those
approaching retirement.  Medicaid  The plan would reduce the Medicaid health-insurance program
for the poor by more than $700 billion over the next 10 years by
capping the open-ended program and allowing states more
discretion over how to run it. Most seniors would pay more for
their health care under the Ryan plan, according to a CBO
 analysis  that also said it may force states to cut their
Medicaid rolls.  Food stamps,  farm subsidies , Pell grants for college
tuition and other mandatory programs would be cut by $1.8
trillion.  “What he has are tax cuts for the wealthiest among us
financed by draconian cuts for those who rely on Medicare and
Medicaid,” said Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a
North Dakota Democrat. White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said the
administration “strongly” disagrees with the Ryan plan.  Larger Cuts  The domestic discretionary programs lawmakers are debating
would face even bigger cuts. Ryan proposes to reduce spending on
them below 2008 levels and to freeze it for five years.  The plan also calls for rescinding the authority Congress
gave regulators in last year’s  Wall Street  regulation overhaul
to resolve large, systematically risky financial institutions.
Republicans, who opposed the law, say such authority makes those
institutions “too big to fail.”  The plan doesn’t propose specific cuts to Social Security,
because Ryan said Republicans want to leave room for a possible
compromise with Democrats.  “Social Security is the area in which I hope we still have
room for bipartisan agreement,” he said.  The plan wouldn’t cut the Pentagon, the government’s
second-biggest program, beyond what Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has already proposed. “We think Secretary Gates is doing
a good job in going through the Pentagon budget looking for a
bunch of waste and a lot of inefficiencies,” Ryan said.  A Party Divided  Ryan’s proposal has divided Republicans over how quickly to
reduce the deficit as well as how. Representative Jim Jordan of
 Ohio , who heads the Republican Study Committee, a bloc of
fiscally conservative lawmakers, said he was unsure whether to
support the plan because it takes so long to erase the deficit.  “We just think you got to get there faster,” Jordan said.
He said the RSC would introduce an alternative budget plan this
week.  Another Ohio Republican, Steve LaTourette, a self-described
moderate, said he supports Ryan’s deficit-reduction goals,
though not necessarily the specific policy ideas, which he
called “a lot of flowery language.”  “I don’t get all excited about the Ryan proposal on
Medicare or the Ryan proposal on Medicaid, but I do get all
excited about his goal and his targets,” he said. “Nobody
should construe a positive vote in favor of the Ryan budget as
an endorsement of any specific proposal.”  The administration’s debt commission last year offered a
plan that wouldn’t show a balanced budget for more than 25
years, while a group of independent budget experts gave up
trying to show a plausible path toward balancing the budget.
President  Barack Obama ’s budget got the deficit down to $750
billion in 2015, though it would begin growing again in
subsequent years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  