-- 
Paris’s Green Drive Uses Seine for Transport as Gas Prices Soar

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-04-05T22:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/paris-s-green-drive-uses-seine-for-transport-as-gas-prices-soar.html
In a wheat field about 60 miles
north of Paris, eight massive earth movers dig up dirt as part
of the  largest European canal project  in 30 years and the first
in  France  since World War II.  As  oil prices  rise to their highest in more than two years
and trucks hurtling down overcrowded highways spew noxious fumes
into the environment, France is expanding the reach of one of
its oldest trade routes: rivers like Paris’s Seine. The 106-
kilometer, 4.2-billion euro ($5.9 billion) Seine-Nord Europe
canal, to enter service in 2016, will link Paris’s Seine basin
to canals in  Belgium , the Netherlands, and Germany.  “This project will put Paris at the heart of Europe,”
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said during a visit to the
worksite yesterday. “It’s shocking that France’s water networks
have been cut off from the heart of Europe for so long.”  Even before work begins on the canal, river trade has begun
to boom in response to soaring prices at the pump and emission
limits. Since 2007, goods carried by inland water in France have
risen 6 percent, while truck traffic has fallen 17 percent,
according to industry groups including VNF Voies Navigable de
France, based near Lille. Retailers Auchan SA, Casino, Monoprix
and Ikea of Sweden AB have shifted goods from trucks to
waterways, joining the likes of  Lafarge SA (LG)  that have always
transported building materials by water.  “Transport by water costs four times less than transport
by truck,” said Benedicte de Bonnechose, the chief executive of
Lafarge’s granulates unit. A convoy of barges can replace 220
trucks, eliminating tons of carbon emissions, she said.  Costlier Gas  Gasoline prices set records across Europe last month
because of the increase in crude oil caused by the conflict in
 Libya . Crude oil rose yesterday to the highest since Aug. 4,
2008 in Europe at $122.89 a barrel.  As part of its environmental target, the French government
wants to get 25 percent of freight traffic off roads by 2020. As
it stands now, the amount of freight going by water in France is
less than one-twentieth of what travels by road.  Suez Environnement,  Europe ’s second-biggest water and waste
company, transported 200,000 tons of waste by river in the Paris
region last year, the equivalent of 11,000 truckloads, compared
with close to nothing the year before. About 600 boats a month
ferried scrap metal, polluted soil, wood and plastics, including
used bottles from sorting sites in Paris to a recycling plant on
the capital’s outskirts in Limay, the company said.  Emission Cuts  River transport emits about four times less carbon dioxide
than road haulage, Paris-based Suez Environnement said. The
equivalent of one kilogram of oil is needed to transport a ton
of waste over 50 kilometers by truck, compared with 275
kilometers by river, the company said.  “Waterways are an excellent way to reduce  carbon
emissions ,” said Helene Enginger, a spokeswoman for Suez
Environnement. “We’re aiming to increase waste transport by
waterways all over France and even to neighboring countries.”  Auchan, France’s third-largest supermarket group,
transported 2,500 containers by water last year. It began using
water transport in 1995 to link the Belgian port of Antwerp to
its Lille entrepot in Northern France. In 2001, it added the Le
Havre-to-Paris route and in 2002, it transported goods from the
Mediterranean port of Fos to Lyon, 370 kilometers upriver.  While river boats have delivered goods to Paris since the
city’s founding on the banks of the Seine, it received ocean-
bound boats only in the late 19th century when work was done to
deepen the river and control its flow. Traffic declined after
World War II as Parisians ceased using coal for heating, and
lighter freight moved to trucks.  Doubling Traffic  The 8 billion kilometer-tons that’s transported on water
each year in France lags behind  Germany ’s 60 kilometer-tons,
said Nicolas Bour, project manager for the Seine-Nord Europe. A
kilometer-ton is a measure of freight for a kilometer traveled.  France, which is the world’s third-largest wheat exporter,
sends only 15 percent of its wheat to port by water, according
to Bour. “It should be at least 50 percent,” he said.  The Seine-Nord Europe canal would instantly double the
amount of traffic in France, said Bour. Although there already
is a 19th-century canal that links the Seine basin to the
Dunkerque canal in the north, it’s too narrow for large barges
and container transporters.  The new project, when completed, will link the Paris region
with 20,000 kilometers of canals in northern Europe including
the industrial heartland of Germany and the North Sea ports of
Antwerp and Rotterdam, the world’s largest.  Rotterdam to Paris  The French government will pay 900 million euros, the
European Union 333 million euros, French ports will kick in 106
million euros and local regions will pay the rest. The canal,
whose construction will employ 25,000 workers, will link the
Oise, a Seine tributary, at Compiegne, north of Paris, with the
Dunkerque-Escaut canal.  The project includes four inland ports, seven locks, 57
road bridges, two rail bridges, and three bridges where the
canal will pass over obstacles.  In the wheat field yesterday, the earth movers sought to
lower a French highway by eight meters to enable the
construction of a canal bridge to pass over it -- cars will zip
along beneath 10,000 tons of water. In addition, there will be a
1,300-meter stretch over the Somme river, the longest canal
bridge in Europe.  “With the canal, a container can arrive in Rotterdam,
transfer to a barge, and come all the way to Paris,” said
Philippe Marini, a senator from northern France, who for 15
years has presided over an association pushing for the canal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  