-- 
Poland Raises Benchmark Rate to Curb Inflation Expectations, Boosts Zloty

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-04-05T16:51:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/poland-raises-benchmark-rate-to-4-to-curb-soaring-inflation-expectations.html
Poland ’s central bank raised
interest rates for the second time this year to damp inflation
expectations and cited the risk that high prices could persist
in a post-meeting statement that boosted the zloty.  The Monetary Policy Council lifted the benchmark seven-day
rate by a quarter-point to 4 percent, matching the forecast of
22 of 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Nine had expected
borrowing costs to remain unchanged. The rate panel described
today’s move as “continuing the monetary tightening cycle” in
a statement after the meeting.  Policy makers across the globe are struggling to contain
accelerating inflation, driven by surging food and fuel prices.
Inflation remained above the bank’s 2.5 percent target for a
fifth month in March, when the Narodowy Bank Polski refrained
from raising  interest rates , while the scale of consumer-price
increases expected by consumers in the next 12 months posted its
 biggest one-month jump  in a decade.  “The sharp growth of inflationary expectations in March
was surely a crucial argument, since it raises the risk of wage
pressure,”  Maja Goettig , chief economist at Bank BPH SA in
Warsaw, wrote in a research note today. “We expect monetary
tightening to continue in coming months and rates to rise by 50
basis points through the end of the year.”  ‘Heightened Inflation’  Risks to Poland’s economic recovery have decreased while a
reviving job market may gradually increase wage and inflationary
pressures, the central bank said in its post-meeting statement.
“At the same time, a rise in inflation expectations combined
with a surge in global commodity prices create the risk that
heightened inflation will persist,” the statement said.  The zloty extended its gains after the rate announcement,
advancing 0.7 percent to 3.9987 per euro as of 6:12 p.m. in
Warsaw, the strongest intraday level since March 29 and the
biggest gain among more than 20 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Six-month forward rate agreements that
investors use to lock in interest costs through October rose 3
basis points to 4.96 percent, the highest level in six weeks.  “The market is reading this statement as hawkish,” said
Jan Koprowski, currency trader at BNP Paribas SA in Warsaw.
“Earlier they held back from talking about future rate
increases and now that’s changed.”  Inflation was 3.6 percent in February, while consumers
expect the rate to rise to 4.6 percent within the next 12
months, according to a central bank survey released on March 31.  ‘No Telling’  Poland followed  Hungary ’s policy makers and lifted its
borrowing costs in January, for the first time since June
2008, to cool inflation expectations and tame wage demands.  There’s “no telling if we’re nearing the end of the rate-
increase cycle” or whether one or more upward adjustments will
be required, central bank Governor Marek Belka said today at a
news conference in Warsaw.  Belka repeated comments he made on March 22 that while
policy makers “will have no choice” but to raise rates,
markets are overestimating the scale of tightening.  “Poland is in an expansion phase, and our role is to
prevent the economy from overheating,” Belka told reporters.
“We don’t see it happening yet, but our responsibility is to
foresee what will happen a year or more ahead, which is why we
acted today.”  ECB Signal  Crude  oil prices  have surged 15 percent this year, pushing
euro-region inflation to 2.6 percent last month. European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and his Governing
Council meet April 7, a month after signaling a plan to increase
the refinancing rate by a quarter point from a record 1 percent.  “Even if we don’t see the risk of demand spurring
inflation in the near future, we can’t ignore imported prices,
because they influence inflation expectations that could turn
into wage demands and set off a wage-price spiral,” Belka said.  The “clear message” being sent is that rate increases
will continue at a gradual pace, said Jaroslaw Janecki, the
chief economist at  Societe Generale  in Warsaw.  “The wording of the statement shows that the Monetary
Policy Council isn’t that hawkish or anxious to fight inflation,
which means I wouldn’t expect more than one rate increase per
quarter,” Janecki said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  