-- 
Portugal’s Long-Term Credit Rating Is Lowered One Level to Baa1 by Moody’s

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-04-05T10:22:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/portugal-s-long-term-credit-rating-is-lowered-one-level-to-baa1-by-moody-s.html
Portugal ’s credit rating was cut by
Moody’s Investors Service for the second time in three weeks
amid expectations it will be unable to avert a European bailout.  Moody’s downgraded Portugal’s long-term government bond
ratings by one level to Baa1 from A3, and said it’s considering
another reduction. Today’s move put the country at the same
level as Ireland,  Russia ,  Mexico  and  Thailand .  Fitch Ratings  on
April 1 downgraded Portugal three notches to BBB-, the lowest
investment grade, and kept the rating on “watch negative.”  “Moody’s rating action was driven primarily by increased
political, budgetary and economic uncertainty,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement today. It expects the winner of
June 5 elections to tap the European Financial Stability
Facility with “urgency,” and that Portugal will be able to get
support from other euro members before then if necessary.  Investors are increasing bets Portugal will follow  Greece 
and Ireland into seeking a rescue as its borrowing costs surge
to record highs. Socialist Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  resigned
last month after Parliament rejected his austerity measures
needed to tackle the deficit.  “Portugal still has an investment-grade rating with
Moody’s, but it will become a big deal once it loses that status
because those who don’t have a mandate to hold sub-investment-
grade bonds will be forced to sell,” said Pavan Wadhwa, head of
global interest-rate strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London .
“It’s just the matter of time before Portugal will have to seek
external aid.”  Redemptions  The vote will be held between two bond redemptions, on
April 15 and June 15. The maturities total 9 billion euros ($13
billion).  Socrates repeated yesterday that he will avoid requesting
external aid. The gap between Portuguese and German 10-year
bonds surged to 536 basis points today, the highest level since
the start of the euro. The yield on five-year notes also climbed
to a euro-era record of 10.06 percent today. The country plans
to sell as much as 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion.) of six- and
12-month bills tomorrow.  The cost of protecting against a Portuguese default rose to
a record, surpassing the price for Irish debt insurance for the
first time in seven months.  Credit-default swaps on Portugal’s bonds climbed 12 basis
points to 592, implying a 41 percent probability the government
will renege on its debts within five years, according to CMA.
Contracts tied to Ireland’s notes dropped 11.5 basis points to
587.5.  No Talks  The European Commission isn’t in discussions with Portugal
over a possible bridge loan, commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj 
said in an e-mail today.  Portuguese daily newspaper Publico reported yesterday that
Portuguese and European officials were assessing a scenario in
which Portugal could obtain a short-term loan from the European
Union if it is not able to secure all its financing needs until
a new government is formed.  The country can meet “debt redemption commitments
scheduled for 2011, especially the redemptions of long-term debt
that will take place in April and June,” Secretary of State for
Treasury and Finance Carlos Costa Pina said last week. He said
the vote could calm markets.  “The cost of financing was substantially worsened by the
political crisis triggered by the opposition,” he said. “A
clarification of the political situation is urgent.”  ‘Unsustainable’ Level  Opinion polls suggest that Socrates’s Socialists will lose
the election. The Social Democrats led the Socialists by 37.3
percent to 30.4 percent in a survey of voters published on April
1 on the website of newspaper Expresso.  Socrates became prime minister in 2005 and his Socialist
Party won re-election in 2009 without a majority. The Social
Democrats agreed in October to let his 2011 budget pass by
abstaining. Their opposition to the new austerity measures
announced on March 11, which included a reduction in some
pensions and cuts in tax benefits, crippled the government.  President Anibal Cavaco Silva said on March 28 that the
three biggest political parties pledged their commitment to meet
current deficit targets and bring the shortfall to the EU’s 3
percent limit of gross domestic product in 2012. The country
reported a shortfall of 8.6 percent of GDP for 2010.  “The government’s current cost of funding is nearing a
level that is unsustainable,” Moody’s said. “It is very
unlikely that the long-term debt markets will reopen to the
 Portuguese government  or the Portuguese banks to any meaningful
extent until the government is able to take action to dispel
doubts over its commitment and ability to implement the fiscal
program.”  Standard & Poor’s  on March 29 downgraded Portugal for the
second time in a week to BBB-, the lowest investment grade,
saying the country will “likely access”  Europe ’s rescue fund.
The company rates Portugal lower than Ireland, which in November
became the first to request aid from the  European Financial
Stability Facility , set up after Greece’s rescue in April 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  