-- 
Postal Labor Contract ‘Falls Short’ of Savings, Issa Says

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-04-05T15:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/postal-labor-contract-falls-short-of-savings-issa-says.html
The U.S.  Postal Service , which
negotiated a contract with its biggest labor union that would
save $3.8 billion over 4 1/2 years, won’t save enough under that
agreement, the agency’s top House overseers said.  The contract with the American Postal Workers Union won’t
return the agency to profitability, House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee Chairman Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, said today.  “This contract falls short,” Issa said at a hearing about
the Postal Service’s labor costs. “We have deep concerns that
some of the provisions of the contract may in fact be the wrong
direction, to less flexibility, less ability to trim the
workforce and less ability to in the future make the kinds of
investments we need to make.”  The Postal Service, which has reported losses for five
consecutive quarters, said yesterday the contract wouldn’t
reduce labor costs to less than the current 80 percent of total
costs. The Postal Service has said it will run out of cash
unless Congress permits it to delay a $5.5 billion payment, due
Sept. 30, for health benefits for future retirees. The labor
costs include payments for those benefits.  Compensation and benefits accounted for 60 percent of
operating expenses at  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the largest
employer of Teamsters union members, in the last fiscal year,
and 43 percent at  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , which uses independent
contractors for deliveries in its ground unit.  ‘Best Possible Outcome’  “While it is the nature of negotiations that neither side
got everything they wanted, I will tell you this is the best
possible outcome we could have achieved given the legal
framework in which we operate,” Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe told the panel. “This is a responsible agreement.”  The agreement, which must be ratified by the American
Postal Workers Union members, would apply to the labor group’s
202,000 employees and would freeze wages for the first two years
of the 4 1/2-year contract.  “Assuming all these savings are achieved, it hardly makes
a dent in projected USPS deficits,” said Representative Dennis Ross, the Florida Republican who leads the oversight
subcommittee that focuses on the Postal Service. “It is unclear
how this deal, which could serve as a template for deals with
other USPS unions, will give USPS the ability to immediately
reduce workforce costs and maintain solvency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  