-- 
Pound Gains After Service Industry Growth Unexpectedly Quickens

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-04-05T15:27:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/pound-advances-against-euro-a-second-day-before-service-industries-report.html
The pound surged to its strongest
level in more than a week against the euro after a report showed
 service industries  in the U.K. expanded at a faster pace in
March, bolstering the case for higher  interest rates .  Sterling gained for a third day versus the dollar, while
 government bonds  declined. A gauge based on a survey of
companies from insurers to environmental consultants rose to
57.1, the most since February 2010, Markit Economics Ltd. and
the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said. The
median estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
an unchanged 52.6 reading. Economists expect the Bank of England
will keep its main rate at 0.5 percent this week as the  European
Central Bank  tightens policy.  “The number was much higher than all expectations across
the market, so the net impact has been strong in favor of the
pound,” said  Roberto Mialich , a senior currency strategist at
UniCredit SpA in Milan. “The data hints that the risk of a
prolonged stagnation is vanishing. The BOE will be forced to
raise rates this year, and this should limit the downside
potential for sterling.”  The pound appreciated 1 percent to 87.30 pence per euro as
of 4 p.m. in London after reaching 87.14 pence, the strongest
level since March 24. It was 0.9 percent stronger at $1.6269,
after climbing to $1.6278, the strongest level since March 23.
Britain’s currency bought 1.5030 Swiss francs, up from 1.4891
yesterday.  U.K. 10-year gilts declined, pushing the yield three basis
points higher to 3.74 percent.  The U.K.’s debt management office plans to sell 1 billion
pounds of inflation-linked gilts maturing in 2037 tomorrow.  BOE Meeting  Bank of England policymakers begin a two-day meeting
tomorrow and economists forecast they will hold off raising
rates to focus on boosting a faltering recovery rather than
seeking to curb the fastest inflation since 2008.  Home prices  probably increased 0.2 percent in March from
February, when they declined 0.9 percent, figures from Halifax,
the mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc, will say this
week, according to the median estimate of 10 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  U.K. house prices will climb 2.8 percent in the next six
months as Britons become more confident about the outlook for
the  property market , according to the average response in a
survey of 7,984 homeowners by Zoopla.co.uk released today.  Short-Sterling Futures  Britain’s currency climbed 2.7 percent against the dollar
in the first quarter as data signaled the economy may be
rebounding after shrinking in the last three months of 2010. The
central bank said on March 29 that mortgage approvals rose in
February to the highest level since November.  Short-sterling futures fell, sending the implied yield on
the contract expiring in December up three basis points to 1.54
percent, as traders added bets on a rate increase.  The first-quarter expansion in the U.K.’s economy was
weaker than expected, adding to the argument that the  Bank of
England  should delay raising its key rate, the British Chambers
of Commerce said. Gross domestic product probably grew between
0.6 percent and 0.7 percent from the fourth quarter, when the
economy contracted 0.5 percent, BCC Chief Economist  David Kern 
said in an interview in London yesterday.  Investors should bet the pound will strengthen to 84 pence
per euro as expectations for the difference between central bank
rates narrows and euro-area credit risk will increase relative
to the U.K., according to Citigroup Inc.  “The latest surge in euro-pound has outpaced the move in
foreign-exchange fundamentals,” New York-based Greg Anderson
and  Valentin Marinov  in London wrote in an investor report
today. “The market is getting excessively hawkish on the ECB
relative to the Bank of England. Investors may be getting too
complacent about the credit outlook for the euro area.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 