-- 
Premier League Boss Scudamore Defends Insolvency Rule That Benefits Soccer

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-05T14:14:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/premier-league-boss-scudamore-defends-insolvency-rule-that-benefits-soccer.html
Premier League  head Richard Scudamore said the rule requiring bankrupt teams to pay off
debts to rival clubs before other creditors is justified,
despite a challenge from the U.K.’s tax agency.  The Football Creditors’ Rule is necessary to prevent one
team’s financial problems from destabilizing the rest of the
league, Scudamore said.  “We will defend it on the basis of the chaos that will
ensue if we don’t have it,” Scudamore told a U.K. parliamentary
inquiry into the governance of British soccer. “We are a closed
system: we trade on a closed basis between each other.”  The Premier League is the sport’s richest domestic
competition, generating annual revenue of about $3 billion.
Scudamore’s comments come against the backdrop of a lawsuit
filed by the U.K. tax authority, which says the rule on paying
soccer creditors first is “unfair, unlawful and unacceptable.”  Portsmouth last year became the first Premier League team
to seek  bankruptcy protection  after being unable to repay debts
of 100 million pounds ($162 million) despite the sale of players.
It repaid clubs including Tottenham, Chelsea, Watford and Inter
Milan in full for player trades. The tax agency and suppliers,
including a voluntary first aid organization, were forced to
accept a deal for 20 percent of the money they were owed.
Scudamore admitted that it was difficult to defend the “moral”
basis of the regulation.  Expulsion?  Though the fairest option would be to expel clubs that get
into difficulty by overspending, it wouldn’t be possible in the
context of a closed soccer competition, he said. Clubs spend
millions of pounds buying players, with most involving payments
spread over several years.  “If a business fails the real sanction should be
expulsion,” he said. “The problem with expulsion is it damages
far more than just the club involved.”  If Portsmouth had been expelled midseason, the league would
have needed to take points back from the teams that had beaten
them and clubs that hadn’t beaten Pompey would  “suddenly have
a three-point advantage,” he said. “So it’s absolutely
essential that the clubs are forced to play each other and play
out their fixture lists.”  Manchester United Chief Executive Officer  David Gill  last
month told the same inquiry that the rule had outlived its
utility and said there would be greater transparency if it was
scrapped. He suggested without it, clubs would be forced to
investigate rivals’ ability to pay for player trades before
deals were signed.  Scudamore said the buying and selling of players is the
most popular aspect of the sport among supporters and cautioned
against regulations that might interfere with the process.  “The idea you would put an administrative blockage of a
due diligence, it’s a place we just wouldn’t want to go.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 