-- 
Bonds May Testify in Defense at Perjury Trial Over Steroids, Lawyer Says

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-04-06T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/prosecutors-finish-perjury-case-against-baseball-s-bonds-defense-up-next.html
A lawyer for  Barry Bonds  said the
home-run king may take the stand in his own defense today in the
federal trial where prosecutors have presented testimony from
more than a dozen witnesses, including baseball players who said
they received steroids from Bonds’s ex-trainer.  The lawyer, Allen Ruby, also said the defense may not call
any witnesses when he addressed the court yesterday without the
jury present.  The jury was sent home after the government rested its case
following seven days of testimony. U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston  said yesterday that she would probably deny a motion by
the defense to dismiss the case without a jury verdict. Bonds’s
attorneys argued that the government failed to offer evidence at
trial sufficient for a reasonable jury to find him guilty beyond
a reasonable doubt.  Bonds, 46, who holds  Major League Baseball ’s career and
single-season home run records, is accused of lying when he told
a federal grand jury in 2003 that he never knowingly took
steroids provided by his former fitness and weight trainer,  Greg Anderson , and that no one other than his doctor gave him
injections. Bonds’s lawyers say he truthfully testified that he
received performance-enhancing substances from Anderson, while
not knowing what they were because they were new at the time.  Prosecutors lost a bid yesterday to play for the jury a
secret tape recording of a 2003 conversation between Bonds’s
doctor and the slugger’s former business partner that
prosecutors say was about steroids, Bonds and a Burlingame,
California-based laboratory at the center of a federal steroids
probe.  Illston ruled that the tape was inadmissible. The
government wanted the jury to hear the tape to boost ex-business
partner Steve Hoskins’s credibility after physician Arthur Ting
contradicted Hoskins’s testimony that he had talked to Ting
about Bonds and steroids.  Grand Jury Testimony  Yesterday’s final government evidence was a portion of
Bonds’s 2003 grand jury testimony, which was read to jurors.
Bonds was repeatedly asked whether he ever took steroids from
Anderson, which he denied. He said Anderson gave him what he
said was flax seed oil and never injected him with anything.  “He knows I’m against that stuff,” Bonds told the grand
jury. “He would never jeopardize our friendship.”  Witnesses for the prosecution included Colorado Rockies
first baseman Jason Giambi. Jurors also heard from Bonds’s
former personal shopper, who testified that she saw Bonds
receiving an injection from Anderson, while the slugger’s former
business partner and former mistress testified that Bonds told
them he took steroids.  Another Bonds Trainer  Lawyers for Bonds, who last played for the Giants in 2007,
may call Harvey Shields, another former Bonds trainer. Other
witnesses may include Laura Enos, an attorney for Bonds, and two
federal investigative agents, Ruby said yesterday.  Illston said yesterday that she is inclined to grant
Bonds’s request to exclude expert and other witness testimony
that testicular shrinkage is a side effect of certain anabolic
steroids.  Kim Bell, Bonds’s former mistress of nine years, testified
that Bonds experienced the side effect, and Larry Bowers, an
anti-doping scientist, testified that testicular shrinkage could
be a side effect of anabolic steroids abuse.  The trial in  San Francisco  started March 21.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  