-- 
Qaddafi Diplomacy Rebuffed as Europeans Back Rebel Demands

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-04-05T06:30:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/qaddafi-s-diplomatic-outreach-rebuffed-as-europeans-back-rebels-demands.html
Muammar Qaddafi’s diplomatic
outreach failed to win backing from European leaders, as Italy
rejected a reported cease-fire proposal and recognized the
rebels’ interim council as the nation’s legitimate government.  In  Libya , rebels pushed back regime loyalists to gain
control of most of the oil port at Brega, according to al-
Jazeera television. U.S. and NATO warplanes continued to destroy
regime targets, such as military vehicles near Brega hit by a
U.S. ground-attack jet, according to a Pentagon statement.  The Libyan government is calling for an “international
dialogue” to resolve the conflict, and offering elections and
political reforms, spokesman Moussa Ibrahim said at a Tripoli
press conference broadcast on Sky News. The possible solutions
wouldn’t include Qaddafi stepping down now, he said. Qaddafi’s
future must be decided by the Libyan people since he has
“symbolic significance” for the nation, Ibrahim said.  The increase in diplomatic efforts come as the U.S. and its
NATO allies seek to avoid a stalemate that might draw them
further into the six-week-old war. Rebel forces have been
struggling for more than a month to take and hold cities in the
center of the country. Opposition leaders and Western
governments have stated that Qaddafi must go as part of any
solution.  Oil dropped from the highest since September 2008. Crude
for May delivery fell as much as 45 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
$108.02 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , and was at $108.09 at 1:02 p.m. Singapore
time.  Cease-Fire Proposal  Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini yesterday
dismissed the reported cease-fire proposal by the Libyan leader,
who sent an envoy to Greece and  Turkey  for talks.  “These proposals are not credible,” Frattini said at a
news conference in  Rome  with Ali al-Isawi, foreign affairs
coordinator of the rebels’ governing group, the Interim
Transitional National Council. Frattini said past truces
declared by the regime were “systematically violated.”  Italy’s formal recognition of the rebels yesterday follows
that of France and Qatar. The U.S. and the U.K. have yet to
establish diplomatic ties.  Libyan rebels plan to export crude oil for the first time
from a port near Tobruk in eastern Libya. The tanker Equator,
able to load 1 million barrels of oil, is due today at the Marsa
al Hariga terminal, according to AISLive Ltd. ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rebels’ national council said April 1
that it had reached a deal to have Qatar help market Libyan oil,
with proceeds going for food, fuel, medicine and other uses.  No ‘Game-Changer’  “That’s certainly news that should calm oil markets a
bit,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst with Raiffeisen Bank AG
in Vienna. “However, the supply volumes won’t be a game-
changer.”  Elsewhere in the region, Yemeni police clashed with anti-
government protesters in the southwestern city of Taiz, leaving
at least 15 demonstrators dead and hundreds injured, Sadek al-
Shujaa, chief of a local clinic, said in a telephone interview.
The U.S. wants President Ali Abdullah Saleh to end the
“appalling violence” and to reach a deal “as soon as
possible” with the opposition, State Department spokesman Mark Toner said in  Washington . Yemen’s opposition coalition called
for international intervention to stop the bloodshed.  Latest Attempt  The Greek government said that a visit by Qaddafi’s acting
foreign minister, Abdul Ati al-Obeidi, with Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  was the latest attempt by the Libyan leader to
resolve the crisis through a settlement. Late yesterday, Al-
Obeidi met with Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, who
made no comments afterwards.  At least two sons of Qaddafi are proposing a plan to move
the Libyan leader out of power and oversee a democratic
transition under his son, Saif al-Islam, the New York Times
reported, citing an unidentified diplomat and Libyan official.
It wasn’t clear whether the elder Qaddafi would support such a
plan.  Replacing Qaddafi with one of his sons “is not
acceptable,” the opposition’s al-Isawi said at the news
briefing with Frattini.  Civilians at Risk  Fighting continued in the rebel-held western city of
Misrata, with water and power cut off and food in short supply.
Regime tanks began shelling an area of the city’s port about 15
kilometers (9 miles) from the city center at about 9 a.m. local
time, a Misrata resident, who identified himself as Touka, said
by telephone.  “There is shelling and use of rocket-propelled grenade
launchers and fighting taking place in the eastern part,” Reda
Almountasser, another Misrata resident, said in a phone
interview from the city.  The U.S. began to carry out a pledge by President  Barack Obama  to hand over most military missions to NATO and its
allies, such as Qatar. The U.S. will keep attack aircraft on
standby and resume flights if necessary, while U.S. command and
control aircraft and navy ships remain in action.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  