-- 
Qatar Central Bank Cuts Interest Rates After Decline in Bank Loan Growth

-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-04-05T13:39:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/qatar-central-bank-reduces-repurchase-overnight-deposit-lending-rates.html
Qatar’s central bank cut  interest
rates  for the first time in eight months after a slowdown in
credit growth.  The bank lowered the benchmark overnight lending rate by 50
basis points to 5 percent and the deposit rate by the same
amount to 1 percent, Governor Abdullah Al Thani said today in a
telephone interview. He didn’t give a reason for the moves. The
last reduction in August aimed to counter deflation and low
borrowing costs worldwide, the central bank said at the time.  Growth in Qatari bank credit dropped to 10 percent in
February, the slowest pace since 2009, according to central bank
data. The decline came amid political turmoil in the Middle
East, with unrest in Tunisia and  Egypt  spreading into some of
Qatar’s Persian Gulf neighbors such as Bahrain.  “We see the cut in lending and deposit rates as a move to
support private-sector credit growth,” said  Monica Malik , an
economist at Cairo-based investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.
“There is substantial room to reduce the lending rate.”  Qatar, the world’s fastest-growing economy, held interest
rates at levels higher than in other Gulf nations as the global
financial crisis crimped borrowing in the region. Its inflation
rate rose to 1.8 percent in February, after the country
experienced deflation for most of 2010.  Qatar forecasts economic growth of 15.7 percent this year,
slowing to 7.1 percent in 2012. The largest exporter of
liquefied natural gas, it has a population of about 850,000 and
the world’s highest per-capita gross domestic product, according
to the CIA World Factbook. The yield on Qatar’s 4 percent dollar
bond maturing January 2015 dropped 4 basis points to 2.98
percent today, according to Bloomberg prices.  Qatar’s benchmark stock index has declined about 2 percent
this year after climbing almost 25 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 