-- 
Trading Dwindles as U.S. Stocks Revive Rally: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-04-05T14:18:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/trading-dwindles-as-u-s-stocks-revive-rally-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. stock trading has dwindled
throughout most of the current  bull market , and the slump is
accelerating as prices rebound from losses earlier this year.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index with daily share trading in exchange-listed companies, as
compiled by Bloomberg, during the past two years. The latter is
represented by a 200-day moving average, which smoothes out day-
to-day swings in buying and selling.  Total trading exceeded 10 billion shares four times in the
first quarter, down from eight in the same period of 2010. This
threshold hasn’t been crossed since March 16, when 11.1 billion
shares changed hands as a 3 1/2-week slide in stocks ended. The
 S&P 500  closed yesterday at 1,332.87, less than 10 points from
its peak on Feb. 18.  “We continue to receive questions on volume -- in
particular, whether the lackluster volume total over the last
three weeks is reason for concern,”  Christopher Verrone , head
of technical analysis at Strategas Research Partners, wrote
today in a report. “We don’t think so.”  Gains among stocks are relatively broad, Verrone wrote,
while indicators such as the Dow Jones Transportation Average,
the Russell 2000 Index and the S&P Midcap 400 Index are setting
new bull-market highs. These indicators “suggest the market’s
longer-term health remains intact,” the report said.  Trading may contract further when Citigroup Inc. carries
out a 1-for-10 reverse stock split, proposed in March. Citigroup
has accounted for 6.2 percent of U.S. volume during the past two
years, according to Bloomberg data. The reverse split is set for
completion after the close on May 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  