-- 
Rajaratnam Agent Testifies About Calls, Trades, Profits

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-05T20:51:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/rajaratnam-judge-excludes-roomy-khan-videotape-evidence-in-galleon-trial.html
A day after a jury heard recordings
of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam thanking Danielle Chiesi for a stock tip, a government agent testified about
Rajaratnam’s phone calls, trading dates and stock profits.  Prosecutors in Manhattan federal court today presented
charts prepared by FBI Special Agent James Barnacle Jr.
connecting phone records, wiretaps, e-mails, share prices and
Galleon stock-trading records in an attempt to prove Rajaratnam
used confidential information to pick stocks. The U.S. said it
expects to rest its criminal case against Rajaratnam tomorrow.  One chart showed a series of calls between phones
associated with Rajaratnam and Rajiv Goel, a friend who worked
for  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s treasury group, in early April 2007.
Rajaratnam later sent an instant message to Galleon trader Ian
Horowitz: “Short 1 million intc.” “INTC” is Intel’s stock
ticker. In a short sale, an investor sells borrowed shares,
betting their price will fall and hoping to replace them later
with cheaper shares while profiting from the difference.  Horowitz responded: “k,” and immediately executed the
transaction, according to the records.  Galleon funds tied to Rajaratnam profited or avoided losses
totaling $2.5 million on Intel trades from April 13 to 17,
Barnacle said.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation agent also testified
about Galleon trading in shares of  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) ,
PeopleSupport Inc., ATI Technologies Inc.,  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD) ,  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , Integrated Circuit Systems Inc. and
 Xilinx Inc. (XLNX)   Denies Wrongdoing  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri Lankan-born
money manager is accused of making $45 million from tips leaked
by corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders. He has denied
wrongdoing and says his trades were based on legitimate
research.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  followed up on
yesterday’s wiretapped recordings of Chiesi, a former analyst at
New Castle Funds LLC, passing what prosecutors said was an
illegal tip that  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  would lower its
earnings forecast.  Under Brodsky’s questioning, Barnacle testified today that
Galleon and New Castle bought Akamai put options and sold the
stock short, in July 2008 after Chiesi’s tip, for a total $5.1
million profit for Galleon and $2.4 million for  New Castle .  Roomy Khan  Tapes  Before the start of testimony, U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell granted a defense request to bar prosecutors from
offering as evidence videotapes of ex-Intel executive Roomy Khan
faxing him documents in 1997 and 1998.  Holwell said the videotapes would have been “unfair” to
Rajaratnam and had “diminished probative value.” Prosecutors
wanted to use them to support a claim that Khan leaked inside
tips to Rajaratnam in 2006 and 2007. Holwell said prosecutors
may use other evidence to prove that charge.  Khan, who has pleaded guilty in the case, has been
cooperating with prosecutors. She won’t testify at the trial,
prosecutors have said.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 