-- 
TransCentury to Sell $50 Million of Bonds After Stock Listing

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-04-05T06:55:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/transcentury-plans-to-sell-50-million-of-bonds-after-kenya-bourse-listing.html
TransCentury Ltd. , a Kenyan investor
in infrastructure projects, plans to sell at least $50 million
of bonds once it has listed on the domestic stock exchange to
fund its expansion, Chief Executive Officer Gachao Kiuna said.  The company is investing in companies that provide
materials for the construction and electricity industries as it
seeks to maintain last year’s 25 percent increase in revenue,
Kiuna said in an interview on April 1. TransCentury, based in
Nairobi, plans to list by introduction, meaning it won’t sell
new stock, within the first half of this year.  “We expect to enjoy the tax benefits on the issuance of
debt instruments and have access to affordable working capital,”
Kiuna said. Bonds aren’t subject to withholding tax in  Kenya .  Accelerating economic growth in Kenya, East Africa’s
biggest economy, has led to increased demand for housing and
access to the electricity grid. The economy may expand as much
as 6.5 percent this year and 7.5 percent in 2012, Prime Minister
Raila Odinga said last month.  Kenya’s government plans to spend $1.9 billion through 2016
to bring electricity to 1.5 million households, according to the
 World Bank . Demand for housing in the nation of 38 million
people is 150,000 units per year in urban areas, compared with
the 35,000 currently being added, according to Housing Finance
Ltd., Kenya’s only publicly traded mortgage lender.  TransCentury also wants to tap into the pending production
of commodities including oil and gas in neighboring  Uganda  and
Tanzania, Kiuna said.  “The growing demand for commodities in the region such as
oil, gas, ongoing country electrification programs and a booming
 construction industry  has presented us with a growth
opportunity,” he said.  Power, Transport  TransCentury’s three main business lines include power,
transport and engineering. It owns a 61 percent stake in  East
African Cables Ltd. (EACL) , the region’s biggest cable manufacturer,
and holds 34 percent Rift Valley Railways, the operator of the
Kenya-Uganda railway line.  In its power-line business, TransCentury manufactures
power, armored and data cables and aluminium conductors. It has
four plants in Kenya, Tanzania, the  Democratic Republic of Congo 
and South Africa, where it owns  Kewberg Cables . The company also
operates a transformer factory in  Tanzania , which produces
switch gears used in power facilities.  Last week, TransCentury announced profit doubled to 468.3
million shillings ($5.6 million) in the 12 months through
December as sales climbed to 6.79 billion shillings from 5.4
billion shillings a year earlier.  ‘Growth Momentum’  “We intend to maintain the 2010 momentum where the power
products were our main driver of growth,” said Kiuna. The
company said sales of copper, aluminium cables and transformers
grew by 9 percent, 140 percent and 38 percent respectively last
year.  Over the next five years, TransCentury plans to grow its
three main business lines by expanding capacity and entering new
markets, Kiuna said.  Currently it sells products in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania,
Rwanda, Burundi, Zambia, the Democratic Republic of Congo,
Malawi,  Mozambique  and  South Africa . TransCentury plans to
establish an operation in Southern Sudan during the course of
this year, Kiuna said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 