-- 
Australia Leaves Interest Rate Unchanged at 4.75% to Gauge Disaster Impact

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-05T06:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/rba-leaves-key-rate-unchanged-at-4-75-to-gauge-disaster-impact.html
Australia ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate at the highest level in the developed
world as floods disrupt coal mining in the nation’s northeast
and a rising currency tempers inflation.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens held the
overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent for a fourth straight
meeting, as forecast by all 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. He called the level “mildly restrictive” and appropriate
given the economy’s outlook.  “The natural disasters over the summer have reduced output
and the resumption of coal production in flooded mines is taking
longer than initially expected,” Stevens said in a statement
announcing the decision. “Commodity prices, including oil
prices, have risen over recent months, pushing up measures of
consumer price inflation in many countries.”  Australia’s dollar climbed to a record this week as surging
mining investment reduces the economy’s spare capacity. The
outlook for global growth is clouded by a nuclear crisis in
 Japan , Australia’s second-largest trading partner, and tensions
in the Middle East that sent  oil prices  higher.  ‘Tumultuous Month’  “Despite a tumultuous month, the central bank is trying to
keep focused on the medium-term story,” said  Michael Turner , an
economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney. “The RBA is
obviously not in a hurry to come back to the table given they’re
ahead of the curve on inflation and have time on their side.”  The Australian dollar was little changed after the
decision, trading at $1.0323 at 3:15 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0327
before the announcement.  Employment growth “has moderated,” inflation is
consistent with the central bank’s goal and the currency’s
strength is helping ease prices pressures, he said. The impact
of Japan’s crisis on  Asia ’s economy is “expected to be
limited,” Stevens said.  Traders see a 72 percent chance he will keep rates on hold
for the rest of the year, bank bill futures show.  The  Reserve Bank , which raised rates seven times from
October 2009 to November last year, is pausing as the country
recovers from flooding and cyclones in Queensland state.
Australia’s economy accelerated 0.7 percent in the fourth
quarter, from a revised 0.1 percent three months earlier.  Trade Deficit  The nation’s trade balance unexpectedly swung to a deficit
in February for the first time in almost a year as the natural
disasters cut mining shipments and higher fuel prices boosted
imports, a government report showed today.  The shortfall was A$205 million ($212 million), from a
revised A$1.43 billion surplus in January, the first time
imports exceeded exports since March 2010.  The deficit ended a 10-month run of trade surpluses, the
longest stretch since 1972-73, Westpac Banking Corp. economists
led by  Bill Evans  said. The “much weaker than expected” trade
figures mean the economy may have contracted 0.2 percent in the
first quarter, according to Westpac.  Tropical Cyclone Yasi in February tore through sugar- and
banana-producing areas, following two months of flooding in
Queensland that killed 36 people, shut mines and wiped out
crops. The state produces 80 percent of the coking coal exports
from Australia and grows more than 30 percent of the nation’s
fruit and vegetables.  Swan’s Estimate  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said this week the disasters will
likely cost the economy about A$9 billion after the government
raised estimates on losses to the coal industry by 20 percent.  Australia is undergoing its biggest mining investment
expansion since the 19th century to meet rising demand for the
nation’s iron ore and coal from China and  India . That helped
propel the Australian dollar to $1.0417 this week, the highest
level since the currency was freely floated in 1983.  The Australian currency’s strength has helped slow parts of
the economy and given Stevens leeway to delay rate increases. A
report last week showed Australian manufacturing contracted in
March for the sixth time in seven months as the stronger dollar
made exports more expensive.  Increased demand for skilled workers at projects such as
Chevron Corp.’s A$43 billion Gorgon liquefied natural-gas
project, under construction in  Western Australia , threatens to
stoke wage growth and inflation.  Job Market  Australia’s labor market, which had record job creation
last year, has gone through its worst three-month period since
mid-2009. The economy has lost a net 2,300 jobs from December
through February after gaining 362,800 during the first 11
months of 2010, according to statistics bureau figures.  Australian employers probably added 24,000 jobs in March
and the  unemployment rate  held at 5 percent for a third straight
month, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 25 economists before an April 7 report.  Commodity exports from Australia, the largest shipper of
coal, iron ore and wool, may gain 14 percent to a record next
financial year, driven by rising prices, the federal
government’s forecaster said last month.  Stevens is relying on lower household spending and higher
savings to slow price gains and give him scope to delay rate
increases. Government reports last week showed Australian retail
sales rose faster than economists expected in February and
lending to businesses climbed for the first time in nine months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  