-- 
RBS Hires Sherry Liu From JPMorgan as Chairman, CEO in China

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-04-05T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/rbs-hires-sherry-liu-from-jpmorgan-as-chairman-ceo-in-china.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, hired Sherry Liu from
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as chairman and chief executive officer of
the bank in  China .  Liu, previously chairman of China Financial Institutions at
JPMorgan, will be responsible for overseeing and driving the
bank’s business strategy in China and its various joint
ventures, according to an e-mailed statement.  The appointment demonstrates RBS’s “continuing focus on
building our corporate and investment banking business both in
and outside of China,” Asia-Pacific Chairman John McCormick
said. “RBS recognizes the importance of success in China as
critical to our business performance in Asia-Pacific.”  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said yesterday
growth in  Asia  is crucial for the bank, which posted a net loss
of 1.1 billion pounds ($1.79 billion) for 2010 and has pledged
to return to profit this year. RBS, which is 83 percent owned by
the government, expects to triple its private banking assets in
 India  over the coming five years.  “We see across Asia a significant set of opportunities as
the economies develop, as the domestic markets get bigger and as
the two-way flows of capital and expertise become more
important,” Hester said in an interview in Singapore yesterday.  There are more than 500 million people in Asia with a net
worth of $10,000 to $100,000 and financial services revenue from
that segment of society is expected to grow by as much as 15
percent a year in most countries, Credit Suisse Group AG’s 2010
Global Wealth Report said. The combined wealth of millionaires
in the region will grow 8.8 percent annually until 2018,
compared with a global average of 7.1 percent, a report by
Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch Wealth Management found.  Liu will report to McCormick and Matthew Kirkby, the bank’s
regional head of global banking, according to the statement. She
will also join the global banking Asia-Pacific management team,
it said.  Edinburgh-based RBS, which established a presence in China
in 1903, operates there through a locally-incorporated bank
headquartered in  Shanghai  that has five branches around the
country and 500 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  