-- 
RBS CEO Says U.K. Stake Sale Depends on Regulatory Clarity

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s ,   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 
2011-04-05T12:06:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/rbs-ceo-says-sale-of-u-k-s-stake-depends-on-regulatory-clarity.html
The sale of the U.K. government’s
majority stake in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  will depend
on how soon regulators, including the Independent Commission on
Banking, decide on the future shape of the industry, Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said.  “Any sale is unlikely until the regulatory position in the
U.K. clarifies, which I hope will be during the course of this
year,” Hester said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
 Singapore  today.  “I believe there will be a market for RBS
shares whenever the government is ready to sell. It will be a
great symbol of recovery for the U.K.”  Hester, 50, forecast in March that RBS will return to
profit in 2011 after three years of losses. He took over as
chief executive from  Fred Goodwin  in November 2008 as the lender
received a 45.5 billion-pound ($74 billion) taxpayer bailout,
the biggest of any bank in the world. Under Hester, RBS has cut
about 27,000 jobs and reduced assets by 948 billion pounds. The
Edinburgh-based lender still needs sell its insurance operations
by 2013 to comply with a European Union state aid ruling.  “Our ongoing profitability from our core business is
strong, and we hope that will strengthen this year,” said
Hester, who was in Singapore to visit employees and clients
before a similar tour of  Hong Kong  and  India  later this week.
“We had an operating profit already last year, which in some
respects is the most important thing.”  Banking Commission  In May, Hester described the process of shrinking RBS as
the most complicated restructuring of any company in history.
The process is “going well” and the bank is on track to begin
the sales of its insurance unit, including Churchill and Direct
Line, “in the second half of 2012,” he said today.  Hester declined to comment directly on the Independent
Commission on Banking, which is reviewing proposals aimed at
securing the financial system against collapse. The panel will
publish its interim report on April 11.  “There are a lot of varieties of things that could be
proposed and what we’re trying to do is to help people look at
what is the best combination,” he said. “We’ll see what comes
out in a week’s time. I’m sure there will then be three to four
months of other discussions until the report is finalized.”  Growth in  Asia  is crucial for the bank’s success, Hester
said today. RBS expects to triple its private banking assets in
India over the coming five years, the company’s head of private
banking in India said on April 1. The country’s wealthy may
double their assets to $6.4 trillion in the period, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG estimates.  Asia Opportunity  “We see across Asia a significant set of opportunities as
the economies develop, as the domestic markets get bigger and as
the two-way flows of capital and expertise become more
important,” Hester said.  RBS, which is 83 percent owned by the government, posted a
net loss of 1.1 billion pounds for 2010 last month, missing
analysts’ estimates, as losses from Ireland climbed and profit
from  investment banking  shrank. The U.K.’s coalition government
is aiming to return RBS to majority private ownership by the end
of 2014, three people familiar with the talks said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net 
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  