-- 
Real Madrid Routs Tottenham, Schalke Stuns Inter 5-2 in Champions League

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-05T22:34:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/real-madrid-routs-tottenham-schalke-stuns-inter-5-2-in-champions-league.html
Real  Madrid  beat 10-man Tottenham
4-0 in the opening game of their Champions League quarterfinal,
as Schalke won 5-2 at defending champion Inter Milan.  Emmanuel Adebayor scored two goals last night for record
nine-time winner Real, which is in the final eight of  Europe ’s
top club soccer competition for the first time in six years.
Tottenham’s  Peter Crouch  was sent off in the 15th minute for a
second bookable offense.  “A team playing with 10 men for such a long time is an
impossible mission,” Real manager  Jose Mourinho  told  Sky
Sports . “I feel sorry for them.”  In Milan, Edu scored twice as Schalke rallied after
conceding a goal in the opening 25 seconds. Joel Matip and Raul Gonzalez also scored for the German team, which is attempting to
reach its first semifinal.  Adebayor, on loan at Real from  Manchester City , opened the
scoring after four minutes at the Bernabeu Stadium in Madrid by
heading a corner kick past Spurs goalkeeper Heurelho Gomes and
Luka Modric, who was stationed on the post.  After Crouch received his second yellow card for a late
sliding challenge on Marcelo, Adebayor just missed getting his
head to a cross from  Sergio Ramos . Real also had a penalty claim
for handball against Michael Dawson denied.  “To get to halftime as we did at 1-0, I thought if we
could just hang in there we could have a chance,” Tottenham
manager Harry Redknapp told Sky Sports. “It was a difficult,
difficult day against a top team.”  Adebayor’s Second  Adebayor struck again in the 57th minute, heading in a
cross from Marcelo. It was the former Arsenal striker’s 10th
goal in as many career games against Spurs.  Angel Di Maria made it 3-0 in the 72nd minute with a
curling left-foot shot and Cristiano Ronaldo closed the scoring
with three minutes remaining with a low drive for his 38th goal
of the season.  “The result is fantastic, but the tie is not won,” Real
midfielder  Xabi Alonso  told Sky Sports. “We have seen so many
great comebacks. Hopefully this won’t be the case, but we have
to be ready.”  Spurs will host the return match in the two-game series on
April 13.  In Italy, Schalke rebounded from Dejan Stankovic’s first-
minute goal to take the advantage back to  Germany  for the second
leg, also on April 13.  Long Volley  Inter got the early goal at the San Siro stadium as Esteban Cambiasso lofted a long ball toward the Schalke goal. Goalkeeper
Manuel Neuer raced out of his area to head it away and it went
to Stankovic, who sent a volley from near the halfway line into
the unguarded net.  Schalke’s Matip tied the game in the 17th minute from close
range. Inter regained the lead in the 34th minute on a goal from
Diego Milito, and Edu again tied it six minutes later with his
first of the night.  Schalke went in front in the 53rd minute when Raul lifted a
shot over goalkeeper Julio Cesar for his record-extending 70th
Champions League goal. The German club made it 4-2 three minutes
later on an own goal by Andrea Ranocchia and Edu got the last
goal with 15 minutes left.  “Had someone told us before the match that we would win at
Inter by a three-goal margin we would have said they were
crazy,” Schalke coach Ralf Rangnick said in comments on UEFA’s
website.  The other quarterfinals begin tonight, with  Manchester
United  visiting English Premier League rival Chelsea and
Shakhtar Donetsk playing at Barcelona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 