-- 
Treasuries Drop as Federal Reserve Minutes Show Debate on Stimulus Efforts

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-04-05T21:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/treasuries-decline-as-bernanke-says-inflation-expectations-must-be-watched.html
Treasuries fell for the first time
in three days as minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting
showed policy makers differed over whether to begin removing
stimulus, fueling concern that interest rates will increase.  U.S. debt  gained earlier, pushing two-year yields to a one-
week low, after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the
economic recovery isn’t yet solid and a rise in inflation may be
transitory. The central bank has completed almost two-thirds of
its plan to buy $600 billion in Treasuries by June under
quantitative easing. The Fed has left its key rate unchanged at
a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “There continues to be dissension within the Fed,” said
Jeff Hussey, chief investment officer at Russell Investments in
Tacoma,  Washington , which manages $155 billion. “Bernanke said
inflation is transitory and other members are calling into
question QE2 and when rates should be raised. The risk is on the
upside that rates will rise, so you may want to be a little
short.”  A short is a bet that Treasury prices will fall.  Two-year yields advanced six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 0.81 percent at 5:05 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 0.75
percent security due in March 2013 slid 3/32, or 94 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 7/8. The yield earlier fell to 0.75
percent, matching the lowest level since March 28.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes climbed six basis points
to 3.48 percent after earlier falling to 3.40 percent, the
lowest level since March 25.  ‘Getting Anxious’  “There’s a little skew growing among the members that the
risks of current monetary policy driving higher long-term
inflation expectations are growing,” said  William Cunningham ,
co-head of global active  portfolio management  and head of global
fixed-income research at Boston-based  State Street Global
Advisors , which oversees almost $2 trillion. “If growth stays
solid, the market will start getting anxious about monetary
policy and will send a message that it needs higher rates in
order to believe in the Fed.”  While the Federal Open Market Committee’s decision March 15
to continue the Treasury purchases was unanimous, the minutes of
the meeting released today said a few of the 10 voting members
thought evidence of a stronger recovery and higher inflation
“could make it appropriate to reduce the pace or overall size
of the purchase program.” The minutes said that “several
others” said they “did not anticipate making adjustments.”  “Almost all” Fed officials also saw no need to “taper”
Treasury buying, jettisoning their prior strategy of reducing
the pace of purchases while stretching out their duration, the
minutes showed.  Stimulus Skeptics  Since the meeting, the labor market and inflation readings
have picked up while growth in  service industries  slowed. Some
regional Fed presidents who were skeptical of the monetary
stimulus have talked about the need to tighten credit, and
Bernanke has yet to indicate his preference for the Fed’s next
move after finishing the bond buying.  Bernanke said yesterday the U.S. economic recovery is “not
as strong as we would like it to be.” He spoke in a question-
answer session after a speech in Stone Mountain,  Georgia .  Fed funds futures show a 39 percent chance the central bank
will increase its target rate at the December policy meeting,
compared with 33.1 percent odds last month.  “So long as inflation expectations remain stable and well
anchored” and commodity-price increases slow, then “the
increase in inflation will be transitory,” Bernanke said. “We
have to monitor inflation and inflation expectations extremely
closely because if my assumptions prove not to be correct, then
we would certainly have to respond to that and ensure that we
maintain  price stability ,” he said.  Unattractive Yields  Bernanke’s view on inflation is “pollyannaish,” Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  told CNBC. Treasury 10-
year note yields at 3.5 percent are unattractive, the manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund said.  The Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.2 percent for a second month, and was up 0.9
percent from a year earlier, the most since October, the
Commerce Department said March 28.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the securities known as the
break-even rate, increased to as much as 2.60 percentage points,
the widest since July 2008.  Exit Time  Treasuries fell on March 31 after St. Louis Fed President
 James Bullard  said in  London  the previous day the central bank
may need to begin exiting from monetary accommodation, even amid
uncertainties in  Japan  and the Middle East.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  told reporters
on April 1 in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , that “it’s certainly a
possibility” the central bank may have to raise  interest rates 
before the end of the year.  Rates on six-month bills rose three basis points to 0.1404
percent after tumbling yesterday to 0.1099 percent, the lowest
on record, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Rates on
three-month bills touched 0.0304 percent, matching yesterday’s
15-month low, before rising to 0.0659 percent.  U.S. money-market rates dropped to about one-year lows as a
change in deposit insurance fees makes some banks reluctant to
lend securities and the Treasury reduces issuance of bills to
avoid exceeding the debt limit.  The Fed bought $7.57 billion in Treasuries today due from
May 2018 to August 2020 as part of its debt-purchase program.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses decreased to 57.3 last month from 59.7
in February. A measure above 50 signals growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  