-- 
Reserve Bank of Australia Says Policy Stance Appropriate (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 0 8 4 5 8 ]   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r   [ ]
-- 
2011-04-05T04:38:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/reserve-bank-of-australia-says-policy-stance-appropriate-text-.html
Following is the  text  of a statement
by  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens explaining
the interest-rate decision today:  At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash
rate unchanged at 4.75 percent.  The global economy is continuing its expansion, led by very
strong growth in the Asian region. The recent disaster in  Japan 
will have a noticeable effect on Japanese production in the near
term, although the impact on the broader Asian region is
expected to be limited. Commodity prices, including  oil prices ,
have risen over recent months, pushing up measures of consumer
price inflation in many countries. A number of countries have
been moving to tighten their monetary policy settings. Overall,
though, financial conditions for the global economy remain
accommodative.  Australia ’s terms of trade are at their highest level since
the early 1950s and national income is growing strongly. Private
investment is picking up, mainly in the resources sector, in
response to high levels of commodity prices. In the household
sector thus far, in contrast, there continues to be caution in
spending and borrowing, and a higher rate of saving out of
current income. The natural disasters over the summer have
reduced output and the resumption of coal production in flooded
mines is taking longer than initially expected. Production
levels should, however, recover over the months ahead, and there
will be a mild boost to demand from the rebuilding efforts as
they get under way.  Asset values have generally been little changed over recent
months and overall credit growth remains quite subdued,
notwithstanding evidence of some greater willingness to lend.
Business balance sheets generally are being strengthened, and
the run‑up in household leverage has abated.  Growth in employment has moderated over recent months and
the  unemployment rate  has held steady at 5 per cent. Most
leading indicators suggest further growth in employment, though
most likely at a slower pace than in 2010. Reports of skills
shortages remain confined, at this point, to the resources and
related sectors. After the significant decline in 2009, growth
in wages has returned to rates seen prior to the downturn.  Inflation is consistent with the medium-term objective of
monetary policy, having declined significantly from its peak in
2008. These moderate outcomes are being assisted by the high
level of the  exchange rate , the earlier decline in wages growth
and strong competition in some key markets, which have worked to
offset large rises in utilities prices. Production losses due to
weather are temporarily raising prices for some agricultural
produce, which will boost the March quarter CPI, but these
prices should fall back later in the year. Overall, looking
through these temporary effects, the Bank expects that inflation
over the year ahead will continue to be consistent with the 2-3
per cent target.  At today’s meeting, the Board judged that the current
mildly restrictive stance of monetary policy remained
appropriate in view of the general macroeconomic outlook. 