-- 
Tribune Judge Delays Court Fight for Further Mediation Over Rival Plans

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-04-05T21:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/tribune-judge-delays-court-fight-for-further-mediation-1-.html
The judge overseeing Tribune Co.’s
bankruptcy delayed the renewal of a court fight between the
publisher’s creditors so the two sides could spend another day
in mediation over competing reorganization plans.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey said today during a
telephone conference that the delay was requested by the judge
who is mediating talks between the company’s pre-buyout
creditors and the lenders who funded the 2007 transaction.  “Judge Gross indicted to me yesterday he thought it would
be useful for him to be able to have parties available to him,”
Carey said, referring to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross.  The two groups of creditors had been scheduled to return to
Wilmington,  Delaware , on April 11 to present more witnesses for
and against the competing plans. They will restart their court
fight on April 12.  The rival proposals for bringing Chicago-based Tribune out
of bankruptcy differ mainly over how to settle allegations that
the company’s 2007 leveraged buyout made the company insolvent.  The lenders that financed the $8.2 billion transaction, led
by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , have proposed settling the claims by
paying more than $500 million to the pre-buyout creditors.  The pre-buyout creditors, led by hedge fund Aurelius
Capital Management LP, rejected that settlement. They want
lawsuits over the buyout to go forward after Tribune exits
bankruptcy.  Majority Owners  Under both plans, JPMorgan and the other lenders would be
the majority owners. The company filed for bankruptcy in 2008,
one year after the buyout, which was led by real-estate
billionaire  Sam Zell .  Today Tribune is worth about $6.75 billion. It has about
$13 billion of debt, most if it from the buyout.  Tribune owns eight newspapers, including the  Los Angeles
Times  and the  Chicago Tribune , with a combined daily circulation
last year of 1.9 million. The company’s 23 TV stations in cities
including  New York ,  Chicago  and  Los Angeles .  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
 at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 