-- 
Romania Faces Monetary-Policy ‘Dilemma’ in Inflation Fight

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-04-05T14:42:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/romania-faces-monetary-policy-dilemma-in-inflation-fight-1-.html
Romania ’s central bank faces a
“dilemma” as policy makers can’t cut  interest rates  aimed at
stemming capital inflows while battling accelerating inflation,
an adviser to the bank said.  The bank will strictly control market liquidity and carry
on fine-tuning policy “for a while,” as it tries to
tame consumer prices boosted by higher global fuel and food
costs, Lucian Croitoru, a monetary-policy adviser to Governor
Mugur Isarescu, told reporters in Bucharest today.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  left its key rate unchanged
at a record-low 6.25 percent on March 31 for a seventh meeting
in a row and cut foreign-exchange reserve requirements by 5
percentage points to 20 percent, leaving commercial banks more
money to lend to spur the recession-hit economy. Romania is
trying to lower the European Union’s highest inflation rate of
7.6 percent in February that sprang from a government tax
increase and rising prices worldwide.  “Inflationary expectations are no longer well-anchored,”
Croitoru said. “The central bank can control only demand and
influence supply” through the  exchange rate  “but the currency
appreciation is dragging down the economy, while having a
limited impact on reducing the inflation rate.”  Borrowing Cycle  Policy makers stopped lowering borrowing costs in June
after cutting rates four times to combat the worst recession on
record. A 5 percentage-point government increase in the value-
added tax in July to 24 percent helped push the inflation rate
to 8 percent in December, the highest in more than two years.  Romania’s leu, the second-best performer in eastern  Europe 
after the Hungarian forint so far this year, gained 2 percent in
March because of an improved economic outlook and after the
central bank signaled last month that it may allow further gains
in an attempt to damp inflation. The leu rose 0.2 percent to
4.1150 per euro as of 5:41 p.m. in Bucharest.  The leu’s appreciation will have a minor impact damping
inflation in March, Croitoru said. “I don’t think the bank
intervened in March to support the leu,” he said.  Romania’s economy, mired in a two-year contraction, is
poised to recover this year and grow 1.5 percent, according to
 International Monetary Fund  and government forecasts. It posted
a smaller annual decline than expected in the fourth quarter and
0.1 percent quarterly growth, bolstering forecasts that growing
exports and industrial production will end the slump this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  