-- 
Russia Says Libya Campaign May Backfire by Radicalizing Middle East Region

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v ,   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-04-05T14:36:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/russia-says-libya-campaign-may-backfire-by-radicalizing-middle-east-region.html
Western military efforts to
overthrow Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  could backfire and fan
extremism across the region, a top Russian defense official
said.  “Unfortunately, it’s not clear what opposition forces may
come to power in the country as a result of these actions,”
Deputy Defense Minister Anatoly Antonov said in an e-mailed
reply to questions from Bloomberg News.  Russia, with power to veto United Nations Security Council
resolutions, abstained from last month’s vote that authorized
the airstrikes by the U.S. and its allies and enabled rebel
forces to halt an offensive by Qaddafi’s forces.  Russia last year signed for a $1.8 billion weapons contract
with  Libya , according to Ruslan Pukhov, director of the Moscow
based Center for the Analysis of Strategies and Technologies.
Potential civilian contracts may be worth “billions of dollars,”
Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko said on March 22.  Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said last week that there
was “ worrying information ” about the presence of al-Qaeda
militants among the Libyan rebels.  The U.S., U.K. and their allies have stepped up diplomacy
as well as air strikes to avoid a stalemate that might draw NATO
members further into the six-week-old conflict. Lacking heavy
weapons and training, the rebel forces have been unable to take
and hold strategic cities in the center of the country.  Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini said yesterday
that arming the rebels to help oust Qaddafi is a “last resort”
possibility permitted under the United Nations resolution.  ‘Call to Crusade’  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  last month met his
Russian counterpart Anatoly Serdyukov, who urged an immediate
ceasefire in Libya.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  likened the UN resolution and
resulting allied offensive to a “medieval call for a crusade.”
He criticized the U.S for regularly resorting to force in
pursuit of its interests, in Libya and before then in  Iraq  and
 Serbia .  Russian arms exporters may miss out on as much as $4
billion in profit as a result of the turmoil in the Middle East,
 Sergei Chemezov , head of Russian Technologies Corp., said on
March 3.  Libyans accounted for the second-largest proportion of
Islamic insurgents who crossed into Iraq in the year through
August 2007 at around 19 percent, behind only the Saudis, who
accounted for 41 percent, according to a  2007 report  by the U.S.
Military Academy at  West Point ,  New York .  ‘Fires for Decades’  The conflict in Libya, which began in February as a wave of
anti-government protests similar to those that removed rulers in
Egypt and Tunisia, escalated into an armed conflict as the
country’s army split and some soldiers joined the rebels
protesting Qaddafi’s regime. Western powers intervened to stop
what they said were attacks on civilians by Qaddafi’s forces.  “Looking at the overall situation in the region, we
conclude that stability and predictability has waned there,”
Antonov said in an email on April 1.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  on Feb. 22 said that
extremism may spread in the Middle East, causing Arab states to
“fall to pieces” with ensuing “fires for decades” if
fanatics rise to power.  Russia , which has 20 million Muslim
citizens, or about 15 percent of its population, faces a
terrorist threat in its mainly Muslim North Caucasus.  The U.S. armed Islamic fighters known as “Mujahedeen” in
 Afghanistan  in the 1980s as part of Cold War rivalry with the
 Soviet Union , which was forced to end its occupation of the
central Asian country in 1989. Many of these Islamic extremists
later joined al-Qaeda, whose leader Osama bin Laden fought in
Afghanistan.  “The main question is who will come to power” after the
current wave of Middle East unrest, Antonov said. “The
likelihood of countries opting for a radical way to solve
chronic regional problems has risen considerably.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net 
Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  