-- 
Russian Inflation Won’t Pass 5.5% in 1st Half, Ignatiev Says

-- B y   A r t y o m   D a n i e l y a n   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-05T11:41:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/russian-inflation-won-t-pass-5-5-in-1st-half-ignatiev-says-1-.html
Russia’s inflation in the year-to-
date probably won’t exceed 5.5 percent in the first six months
and 1.5 percent in the second half of the year, central bank
Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said.  Inflation target of 6 percent to 7 percent is “entirely
achievable as long as the harvest this year isn’t worse than
average,” Ignatiev said at a banking conference in Moscow
today.  Inflation is easing after the rate quickened for six
consecutive months through January following the country’s crop-
destroying drought last summer. The grain harvest may reach 90
million tons this year, about 50 percent higher than in 2010,
the Agriculture Ministry said on April 1.  Consumer prices rose an annual 9.5 percent in March, the
same as in February. Consumer prices advanced 0.6 percent from a
month earlier, bringing year-to-date inflation to 3.8 percent,
the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said yesterday.  The central bank has been tightening monetary policy since
December, when it first raised the overnight deposit rate to
pull cash out of the economy. The regulator raised its main
rates in February and has also lifted  reserve requirements  and
allowed the ruble to strengthen to rein in inflation.  Bank Rossii will continue to increase the flexibility of
the national currency, according to Ignatiev.  Money-supply growth has slowed last month to 27 percent on
an annual basis from 36 percent as of Sept. 1, Ignatiev said.  “Slower money supply growth will help lower inflation,”
Ignatiev said. “That slowing is already occurring.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Artyom Danielyan in Moscow at 
 adanielyan@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 