-- 
Billionaire Nesis’s Nomos Bank Seeks $640 Million in IPO

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-04-05T07:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/russian-billionaire-nesis-s-nomos-bank-seeks-640-million-in-ipo.html
Nomos Bank, the Russian lender
controlled by billionaire Alexander Nesis, and its shareholders
are seeking to raise as much as $640 million in an initial
public offering in  London .  Moscow-based Nomos and owners led by Roman Korbacka are
offering at least 20 percent of the bank in new and existing
shares for $32 to $37 apiece, the company said in a statement
today. The offer is equal to $16 to $18.50 per global depositary
receipt, valuing Nomos at $2.8 billion to $3.2 billion.  Russian companies are resuming share sales two months after
Nord Gold NV, OAO Koks and Chelpipe pulled $2.5 billion of
planned IPOs, citing unfavorable “market conditions.” The
country’s dollar-measured RTS Index has gained 18 percent this
year, making it the sixth-best performer of 90 markets tracked
by Bloomberg. Nomos, mobile-phone retailer Euroset Holding NV,
property developer Etalon Group and food producers Ros Agro Plc
and Yug Rusi may raise a combined $2.7 billion selling stock
this month, according to Moscow-based UralSib Financial Corp.  Nomos’s offer “presents an attractive opportunity to
invest in one of the fastest-growing universal banking groups in
 Russia ,” said Chief Executive Officer Dmitry Sokolov in the
statement. It’s underpinned by a “management team that has been
able to deliver above-market growth and solid profitability.”  Nesis, who also owns stakes in precious metals miner OAO
Polymetal and potash producer OAO Uralkali, said in an interview
in December that Nomos would use its share of the IPO proceeds
to help meet domestic demand for financing.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and VTB Capital
are managing the IPO along with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Erste Group
Bank AG. (EBS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  