-- 
Rwanda's Telecommunications Regulator Revokes Rwandatel’s Mobile License

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 
2011-04-05T15:30:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/rwandan-telecommunications-regulator-revokes-rwandatel-s-mobile-license.html
Rwanda ’s telecommunications
regulator said it revoked  Rwandatel SA ’s license after the East
African country’s third-biggest mobile-phone operator failed to
comply with its license obligations.  Rwandatel must halt its services with effect from April 8,
Regis Gatarayiha, acting director-general of the agency, told
reporters today in Kigali, the capital. Cleophas Kabasiita, a
spokeswoman for Rwandatel, couldn’t confirm the revocation when
contacted earlier today and wasn’t available when called again
later in the day.  “We thought they were not performing and, because of that,
the competition was not what was expected,” Gatarayiha said.  Rwandatel competes with MTN Rwanda, a unit of  MTN Group
Ltd. (MTN)  of  South Africa , and  Millicom International Cellular SA (MICC) ’s
Rwandan unit, Tigo Rwanda. The company had 443,534 subscribers
as of August 2010, compared with 2.2 million for MTN and 529,114
for Tigo, according to the regulator.  Libyan African Investment Portfolio, a state-owned company,
holds 80 percent of the Rwandatel, while the rest is held by the
Social Security Fund of Rwanda. Last week, Rwandan President
 Paul Kagame  said he would comply with United Nations resolutions
requiring Libyan assets in the country to be frozen. The UN
Security Council imposed the sanctions in an effort to halt
attacks by Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s regime on protesters.  Hotel Seized  The Rwandan government today seized the Libyan-owned Hotel
Laico Umubano to comply with the sanctions, Finance Minister
John Rwangombwa said in a separate interview. The facility will
in future be operated by the Rwandan government, which
previously held 40 percent of the business, he said.  “We are removing any Libyan influence, but the assets will
operate normally,” Rwangombwa said.  Gatarayiha said the decision to revoke Rwandatel’s license
wasn’t related to the UN resolution, as the process of
evaluating the company’s performance began on Feb. 4, before an
uprising began in  Libya . The move was part of an effort by
Rwanda to increase the number of mobile-phone users in Rwanda to
60 percent of the population by 2012 from 36 percent now, he
said.  “If you have three operators with one that is not competing
effectively, it’s not helping the penetration rate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Murdock in Kigali at 
 hmurdock1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 