-- 
Ryan Vows to Boost U.S. Energy Output, Cut Foreign Imports

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-04-05T18:58:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/ryan-budget-pledges-to-boost-energy-output-cut-foreign-imports.html
U.S.  House Republicans  will “boost
American energy resources” by removing “bureaucratic barriers
and red tape,” according to a 2012 spending plan by Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan .  Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, proposed eliminating U.S.
restrictions on “safe, responsible energy exploration” to cut
gas prices, create jobs and reduce dependence on foreign oil,
according to a 73-page summary released today. Republicans are
seeking to reduce federal spending to at least 2008 levels.  President  Barack Obama  last week outlined goals to cut U.S.
oil imports one third by 2025 and offer incentives to spur
drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.  The administration imposed a moratorium on deep-water
drilling after a BP Plc oil well ruptured on April 20, spewing
4.9 million barrels of crude into the Gulf. The ban was lifted
in October, and several companies won permits last month to
drill in deep waters off the U.S. coast.  Sections of the eastern  Gulf of Mexico  and along the
Atlantic Coast remain off-limits to producers under Interior
Department plans.  Republicans and Democrats in Congress disagree on a budget
for the current year ending Sept. 30. Republican leaders in the
House have sought to cut $61 billion in  government spending ,
including $3 billion, or 29 percent, from the EPA budget and
scale back the Energy Department’s science research efforts and
a federal loan guarantee program.  Stopgap Measures  The House plan failed to advance in the Senate, and the
government is being funded with stopgap measures as the two
parties seek a resolution.  The latest Republican offer is a two-week budget that would
cut current spending by $12 billion. Democrats are pushing a
plan to cut spending by $33 billion through the end of
September.  Obama’s energy policies are “brimming with regulations and
reckless spending on government-appointed winners and losers,”
Ryan said in the 2012 plan. Ryan proposed reducing energy and
environmental spending while providing few details about the
programs that would be cut.  Ryan said the EPA’s budget has increased 36 percent since
2008, the year used by Republicans to set spending goals. An
agency spokeswoman didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  Ryan’s budget would trim more than $6 trillion in the next
decade from Medicare, Medicaid,  food stamps  and other programs.  Opinion Polls  Public opinion polls show Americans want Congress to bring
down the federal deficit, without harming entitlements such as
Medicare and Social Security or many discretionary spending
programs. Yet it’s the expanding entitlement programs that pose
the biggest threat to the government’s long-term fiscal
standing, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Ryan’s budget echoed themes of his “ Roadmap for America’s
Future ,” a 99-page document revised in January 2010 that
outlines his thoughts on reducing the  U.S. debt  and the deficit.  Neither the budget nor the 2010 document offered details on
U.S. energy policy. The roadmap described Democrats’ “cap-and-
trade” proposal to reduce carbon emissions as a “government
takeover of most of the energy market” that “fails to boost
two of the most reliable sources of clean energy:  nuclear and
hydro-power.”  The cap-and-trade plan, which would limit  carbon emissions 
and let companies buy credits to pollute above the limit, died
in the Senate during the last Congress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  