-- 
Ryanair Shrinks Spanish Hub, Says Passengers Must Use Stairs, Not Bridges

-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-04-05T11:05:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/ryanair-shrinks-spanish-hub-says-passengers-must-use-stairs-not-bridges.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  will cut half
its routes from Alicante, Spain, after the airport there said
people must board via airbridges instead of stairs in a move the
carrier says will cost it 2 million euros ($2.8 million) a year.  Ryanair faces a charge to fund the bridges at  Alicante’s
new terminal  and also prefers stairs because they can be used at
both doors, cutting boarding times, it said today. State airport
operator Aena said the fee of about 30 cents a ticket “isn’t
really expensive” and that people find bridges more comfortable.  “Ryanair has been operating at Alicante for over five years
without the use of airbridges and this decision is an abuse of
 Aena ’s monopoly,” the Irish carrier said. “The new terminal has
exactly the same stairs as the old terminal, which would allow
Ryanair to continue to apply walk on/walk off boarding.”  Europe ’s biggest low-cost carrier plans to eliminate 31 of
its 62 routes from Alicante and reduce the number of planes
based there from 11 to two, it said in a  statement , adding that
the service cuts will cost Aena more than 30 million euros in
passenger and turnaround fees and lost commercial sales.  “Airbridges are more comfortable and modern for passengers
and that’s the main reason Aena has decided to use them,” Laura
Baldo, a spokeswoman for the airport operator, said in a phone
interview. “We aren’t talking about a big amount of money.”  Alicante is  Spain ’s  sixth-busiest airport , attracting 9.4
million passengers last year, according to Aena. Dublin-based
Ryanair contributed more than 4 million, or in excess of 40
percent of the total. The cuts, to be imposed in October, will
reduce that to fewer than 1.5 million people, the carrier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  