-- 
Santander Mexico Unit Plans Initial Public Offering, Debt Sale, CEO Says

-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-04-05T18:43:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/santander-mexico-unit-plans-initial-public-offering-ceo-says.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s Mexican unit
plans an initial public offering in the next two years and may
sell bonds overseas this year for the first time in more than a
decade, Chief Executive Officer Marcos Martinez said.  Mexico’s fourth-largest bank by loans also plans to
increase total lending by about 20 percent this year in part by
boosting its credit-card and mortgage businesses, Martinez said.  Santander is planning IPOs in countries including  Argentina 
and the  United Kingdom  to diversify risk after the global
financial crisis, Martinez said. Mexican banks are issuing debt
at the fastest pace in nine years after the economy grew the
most in a decade.  “This is a resource to finance ourselves,” Martinez said
in an interview today at the Bloomberg News office in  Mexico 
City. “When you list in the local market, you have deeper
roots.”  Credit card loans and government lending will grow below 20
percent, while mortgages and loans to small- and medium-sized
businesses will expand more than 30 percent, Martinez said.
Loans to private companies will grow about 20 percent, he said.  Grupo Financiero Santander SAB has sold 10.4 billion pesos
of local debt this year, Martinez said. In 2009, the bank’s
Brazilian unit raised 14.1 billion reais ($8.8 billion) in the
largest initial public offering in the Latin American nation’s
history.  In Mexico, Santander had 230.6 billion in pesos in
outstanding loans, according to a January report by the National
Securities and Banking Commission. BBVA Bancomer SA is No. 1 by
that measure and Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit is second.  In  Spain , where Santander is the nation’s biggest bank, UBS
AG analysts said on March 31 that the company needs almost 11
billion euros to take its core Tier 1 capital ratio to “optimal”
levels. The ratio is a measure of financial strength.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  