-- 
HSBC Client Said to Plead Guilty to Hiding Bank Accounts

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-04-05T20:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/hsbc-client-accused-of-hiding-indian-accounts-to-said-to-plead-guilty.html
A New Jersey businessman accused of
conspiring with five bankers at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to hide his
 Indian bank (INBK)  accounts from U.S. tax authorities is scheduled to
plead guilty next week, according to court records and a person
familiar with the matter.  Vaibhav Dahake, of Somerset, New Jersey, will have a “plea
agreement hearing” on April 11 in federal court in Trenton, New
Jersey, court records show. He was indicted Jan. 26 on charges
of conspiring with bankers of “one of the largest international
banks in the world,” which has headquarters in England.  London-based HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank by market value,
is the bank, according to the person, who requested anonymity
because the U.S. Justice Department hasn’t identified the
conspirators.  Dahake was the first taxpayer charged in a crackdown
focusing on whether HSBC helped clients with Indian accounts
hide assets from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. He’s accused
of conspiring with two bankers in  New York , one in Fremont,
 California , and two in Thane, India. He faces as long as five
years in prison.  “HSBC does not condone tax evasion and fully supports the
U.S. efforts to promote appropriate payment of taxes by U.S.
taxpayers,” Juanita Gutierrez, a company spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail.  Dahake’s attorney, Lawrence Horn, declined to comment.
Rebekah Carmichael, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman, declined to comment.  NRI Services  The bank operated a U.S. division called NRI Services,
which marketed offshore-banking services to U.S. citizens of
Indian descent. Through NRI, the bank “encouraged U.S. citizens
to open undeclared bank accounts in India,” according to the
indictment.  Dahake, a native of  India  who became a U.S. citizen in
2006, filed false tax returns that hid ownership of and income
from undeclared accounts in India, as well as the British Virgin
Islands, according to the indictment.  His British Virgin Islands accounts didn’t pay interest,
and the bank solicited him to open accounts in India that paid
“high  interest rates ,” according to the indictment.  In 2001, he met with a banker in New York who touted the
advantages of an Indian account, “including that no U.S. forms
were required, he did not have to provide a Social Security
number, the account was not taxable in India” and no Form 1099
reporting the interest income would be filed with the IRS,
according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Dahake, 11-cr-42, U.S. District Court,
District of  New Jersey  (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  