-- 
Scene Last Night: Liev Schreiber, Naomi Watts, Philip Falcone

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-05T16:27:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/scene-last-night-liev-schreiber-naomi-watts-parker-posey-the-falcones.html
Student artists welcomed actors,
financiers and other visitors to their tiny studios at the  New
York Academy of Art  last night.  The occasion was the school’s  Tribeca Ball , to raise money
for scholarships. The school, founded in 1982, emphasizes
figurative work. Guests included Sophie Matisse, the great-
granddaughter of the painter  Henri Matisse , and actress Parker Posey, who expressed solidarity with the students.  “I just know, because I can’t do certain things, that I’m
an artist,” Posey said.  “I don’t have any talent for art whatsoever, but I believe
in supporting those who do,” said actor  Liev Schreiber , a
veteran of the ball. “I love being in a school. It’s a lot of
fun to walk around the studios.”  Schreiber, with his wife,  Naomi Watts , soon headed to the
basement, where a guitarist and trumpeter were performing, a
bartender was serving drinks, and two artists were rolling black
ink on a printing press.  On the fourth floor, Lisa Maria Falcone browsed art wearing
a fancy T-shirt with bolero above boy shorts finished with a
sheath of Givenchy lace. She founded and runs the film
production company  Everest Entertainment , and her husband,
Philip Falcone, is chairman and chief executive of  Harbinger
Group Inc. (HRG)   “With chaos around you, you look for something that can
transcend, that can take you somewhere else,” she said. “I
wish there was more time to see everything.”  Dustin Buys Jason  Some of the art sold. “I bought that piece right
there,” artist Dustin Yellin said, pointing to a painting of a
gorilla by student Jason Sho Green.  In his second-floor corner studio, student James Hopper
worked on a portrait of his fiancee, Clara Schulte. Portraits
are “a record of the time you spent with the person,” Hopper
said. “I’m looking for the air around them, the way they
inhabit their body.”  Schulte said: “I’m really jealous of the ex-girlfriend
ones.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 