-- 
Schork Says Oil May Drop $20 a Barrel If Libya Strife Eases

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 
2011-04-05T12:26:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/schork-says-oil-may-drop-20-a-barrel-if-libya-strife-eases-1-.html
Oil may plunge by $20 a barrel if
tensions ease in  Libya  and Middle Eastern countries,  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc., a consulting firm in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania , said on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside
Track.”  U.S. supplies are at or above their historical ranges for
this time of the season and oil has spiked $20 because of
concern strife will spread, according to Schork. This has
triggered speculators betting on rising prices, he said.  “We have a hedge-fund community, a  Wall Street  community
that is way over-extended on their bets on rising oil prices,”
said Schork. “Speculators on Wall Street now own more barrels
of sweet oil than are actually sitting in the Strategic
Petroleum Reserves. They own twice as many futures contracts in
gasoline than there are at the Nymex delivery hub in  New York 
Harbor.”  There are 726.5 million barrels of oil in the U.S.
Strategic Petroleum Reserve, according to the Energy Department.
About 58.5 million barrels of gasoline were stored along the
East Coast, which includes the New York Harbor delivery point
for contracts traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , in the
week ended March 25, department data show.  Elasticity to Wane  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 2.3 cents to $3.685 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on
its website. That’s the highest price since Sept. 25, 2008.  Fuel prices at the pump may rise 20 cents to 25 cents this
summer, according to Schork.  “Consumers just simply can’t pay any more,” Schork said.
“We are at the demand point where elasticity is certainly going
to wane. Americans cannot afford that. They will alter their
discretionary behavior when it comes to gasoline.”  Gasoline demand, as measured by deliveries to wholesalers,
dropped 2.3 percent to average 8.87 million barrels a day in the
week ended March 25, the Energy Department reported last week.
Measured on a four-week average basis, demand is 0.1 percent
below a year earlier.  Gasoline for May delivery added 1.75 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to settle at $3.1688 a gallon yesterday on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. It was the highest settlement since July
21, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  