-- 
Scotiabank Eyeing Acquisitions in Latin America, Asia, Banking Head Says

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-04-05T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/scotiabank-looking-at-acquisitions-in-latin-america-porter-says.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,  Canada ’s third-
largest bank, will consider buying firms to bolster its
operations in Latin America and  Asia , said Brian Porter, head of
international banking.  “We’ve been very acquisitive,” with 20 international
deals in five years, Porter said. “We’ll look at selective
acquisitions in the Latin America footprint, and potential
acquisitions in the Asia-Pacific region.”  Scotiabank generated 22 percent of profit last year from
international banking, which includes operations in 50 countries
such as Mexico, Peru and  Thailand . Porter, who has been with the
Toronto-based bank since 1981, replaced Robert Pitfield as head
of international banking in September.  “I don’t think people understand the power of our
footprint or the size of our footprint, or the potential
penetration of our footprint in some of these jurisdictions,”
said Porter, 53, during an interview in Halifax, Nova Scotia,
where the bank is holding its annual meeting today.  Latin American countries where Scotiabank would like to
expand into consumer banking include  Colombia , where the lender
bought an investment bank from  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
last year.  “There are a lot of Canadian companies there in the mining
industry and they want a Canadian bank there,” said Porter, who
estimates he travels ‘every other week’ in his new role to
regions including the Caribbean, Asia and Central America. “We
think that dovetails nicely into our strategy.”  Asian Acquisitions  Panama is showing a lot of “dynamism” in its economy, and
will continue to expand, Porter said.  Purchases in Asia could be “along the lines” of the C$2.2
billion ($2.3 billion) agreement Scotiabank announced last year
with partner Thanachart Bank, buying a stake in Thailand’s Siam
City Bank Pcl.  Potential deals have to “make sense for us, in countries
that fit the profile of being under-banked, burgeoning middle
class,” said Porter. He declined to say how much the bank would
spend on purchases, explaining that the bank looks at a variety
of factors, including a country’s political stability.  Scotiabank may also expand its offering of asset-management
products such as mutual funds or investment advice in regions it
operates in, such as the Caribbean,  Mexico , Chile and Peru,
 Porter  said yesterday.  The bank is also looking at  investment
banking  and consumer-finance operations there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 