-- 
Exchanges Revamp U.S. Curbs to Limit Stock Moves Instead of Halting Trades

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-04-06T22:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/sec-says-exchanges-filed-limit-up-limit-down-proposal-for-stock-volatility.html
Concern that halting stocks to limit
price volatility does more harm than good spurred the biggest
U.S. exchanges to propose modifying the program.  They backed a plan, known as limit-up/limit down, that
prevents prices from moving beyond specified bands based on a
security’s average level during the previous five minutes. On
Feb. 18, advisers to the Securities and Exchange Commission and
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission recommended adopting
the technique in lieu of immediately halting shares. The SEC
announced the joint  proposal , which also  extends  the program to
all exchange-listed stocks and funds, in a statement yesterday.  Exchanges began the single-stock circuit breakers after the
20-minute rout on May 6 erased $862 billion from the value of
U.S. equities before prices rebounded. The current system halts
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and  Russell 1000 Index (RIY)  companies as
well as  more than 300  exchange-traded funds for five minutes
when they rise or fall at least 10 percent in five minutes.
Exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority want
price bands instead.  “This is an enhancement to what’s in the market already,”
said Randy Snook, New York-based executive vice president for
business policy and practices at the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association. “It’s critically important to
adopt these kinds of changes to the market infrastructure to
ensure that individual and institutional investors have
confidence in the marketplace and the valuation of stocks.”  Retain Confidence  Regulators are trying to balance the lower trading costs
associated with electronic trading with the increased risk of
computer-driven slumps. SEC Chairman Mary L. Schapiro said in
yesterday’s statement that “upgrading our trading parameters
will help our markets retain the confidence of investors and
companies.”  The new plan will be implemented in two phases, the
 exchanges  said in their joint proposal. For companies already
covered by the circuit breakers adopted last year, trades
wouldn’t be able to occur 5 percent higher or lower than the
average price over the prior five minutes, the SEC said. For all
other securities, the band would be set at 10 percent. Wider
collars would apply for shares trading below $1. The thresholds
would initially be doubled between 9:30 a.m. and 9:45 a.m. as
well as 3:35 p.m. to 4 p.m.  Public Comment  The second phase, which will begin after six months, would
apply the 5 percent trigger to all securities from 9:30 a.m. to
4 p.m., according to the proposal. The program will begin 120
days after the SEC’s approval notice is published in the Federal
Register. The public will have 21 days to comment.  “If a market’s prices can only move within a certain band,
that’s price control,” said Tim Quast, founder and managing
director at ModernNetworks IR LLC in Denver. “This is supposed
to be a free market with stocks priced according to the willing
activity of buyers and sellers. I understand the rationale, but
it’s at loggerheads with rules that say the markets should be
free and unimpeded.”  High-frequency trading firms and arbitrageurs are likely to
benefit from the rules at the expense of longer-term investors,
Quast said.  “When you can count on exchanges to control the movement
of price, you can program algorithms to that,” including
through momentum-based strategies designed to profit from
changes in the relative prices of two securities or baskets of
stock, he said. “Traders could try to move less-liquid stocks
to the upper or lower limits.”  Halts Still Possible  The new program curtailing volatility also allows
securities to stop trading. If a stock price rises or falls to
the threshold and trades are “unable to occur within the price
band for more than 15 seconds,” a five-minute pause will be
imposed, according to the SEC statement. The halt will give
investors time to respond to “fundamental price moves” driven
by news about companies, the SEC said.  The five-minute halt imposed by the current circuit
breakers “has been particularly problematic in a number of
situations in which a single erroneous trade triggered the
pause,” the Feb. 18 report from the SEC-CFTC advisers said.  “This is a band-aid,” said Joseph Saluzzi, partner and
co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading LLC in Chatham,  New
Jersey . “It improves the static circuit breakers, which have
saved the day a few times, by making them more dynamic, but we
can still have quick declines.” He said the proposed rules
don’t address the reason for rapid plunges. “This treats the
symptom but not the sickness,” he said.  Rapid Orders  Regulatory changes over the past 15 years and the growth of
high-frequency trading contributed to the May 6 plunge, Saluzzi
said. More than half of U.S. equities volume comes from high-
frequency firms that buy and sell stocks rapidly and usually
don’t hold positions overnight, according to the SEC. Saluzzi
said the agency should consider rules that limit some of their
activity such as high levels of quotations relative to trades
and the rapid submission and cancellation of bids and offers.  The new circuit breaker proposal would affect trading on
all exchanges including those run by  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ) , Bats Global Markets and Direct Edge Holdings LLC, as
well as private venues such as dark pools and brokerages that
execute orders within their own walls.  “We’ve been waiting for this,” said George Hessler,
president and chief executive officer of Stock USA Execution
Services Inc., a Carmel, New York-based electronic brokerage
firm that trades between 3 billion and 4 billion shares a month.
“This should be a good step in improving market structure in
the equity marketplace.”  ‘Runaway’ Order  The initiative should eliminate problems involving “the
runaway market order or mistakes with a limit order” that
triggered circuit breakers in the past, Hessler said. Market
orders are requests to buy or sell shares immediately regardless
of the price. Limit orders are trade requests that specify the
highest or lowest price the investor will accept.  “We respectfully disagree with the viewpoint that
volatility should be regulated or mandated out of existence, or
that we should introduce safeguards to protect market
participants from periods of high volatility,” Leonard Amoruso,
general counsel at  Jersey City , New Jersey-based Knight Capital
Group Inc.,  told  the SEC on June 4. Volatility “is a byproduct
of the dynamism of our capital markets and reflects periods of
strongly differing views on valuation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 