-- 
Sell Novartis Options Before Stock Buyback, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-04-05T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/sell-novartis-options-before-stock-buyback-credit-suisse-says.html
Investors should sell  Novartis AG (NOVN) 
options before volatility increases when the Basel, Switzerland-
based drugmaker begins a stock buyback that’s likely to lift the
shares next month, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  Equity derivatives strategist Daniel Roy recommended
selling the drugmaker’s April 49 Swiss franc put and April 52
franc call, a strategy know as a “strangle” that profits if
the stock remains between the strike prices. Investors may
combine the strangle with the purchase of a call ratio spread,
buying May 51 franc call and selling twice as many May 54 franc
calls, Roy said. The stock was unchanged at 50.05 francs
yesterday.  Novartis, which has lost 8.9 percent this year, is unlikely
to rally before it resumes a stock buyback program, which it
probably cannot do until at least April 20, Roy wrote. Selling
this month’s options will profit as volatility falls before the
contracts expire on April 15, while the call spread will gain as
the stock rises once the buyback resumes, Roy said.  “Upside movements are likely to be relatively modest” for
Novartis, the London-based strategist said, adding that share-
price moves are likely to be relatively small.  Implied volatility, the key gauge of option prices, for at-
the-money options expiring in 30 days has fallen to 19.12 from
this year’s peak of 24.90 on March 16.  Novartis plans to restart a 10 billion franc ($10.8
billion) buyback first announced in 2008, it said on Dec. 15.
The Swiss drugmaker is doing that to offset the issuance of
stock for the acquisition of Alcon Inc., the world’s largest
eye-care company.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, known as the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey
the right to sell. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  