-- 
Senate Banking Chief Says He Opposes Change to Consumer Bureau

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-04-05T19:47:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/senate-banking-chief-says-he-opposes-change-to-consumer-bureau.html
U.S. Senator Tim Johnson, chairman
of the Banking Committee, said he opposes House Republican
legislation that would supplant the director of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau with a commission -- making it
unlikely that such legislation could pass.  “This issue was already considered during the thorough
Wall Street reform debate we had last year and agreement was
reached that consumers would be protected best with a director
in place at the CFPB,” Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat, said
in an e-mail.  Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who
is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee,
introduced a bill last month that would replace the post of
director with a five-member bipartisan commission. To become
law, the legislation would likely have to be approved by
Johnson’s committee and passed by a majority in the Senate,
which is controlled by the Democrats.  The consumer bureau, which was created by the Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul that President  Barack Obama  signed last
year, is scheduled to begin work on July 21.  Senator Jerry Moran, a Kansas Republican, today said at a
hearing of the Senate Appropriations Committee’s subcommittee on
financial services, that he is preparing legislation similar to
the Bachus bill. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said at
the same hearing he opposes the idea of a commission.  Congress considered a range of options and came up with a
model “that combines very strong authority and independence,
the necessary independence, with a set of powerful checks and
balances,” Geithner said.  Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration adviser in
charge of setting up the bureau, hasn’t been publicly ruled out
as possible nominee. Johnson called Warren “one of a number of
excellent potential candidates.”  Winning Confirmation  Warren got her current job in September after Senator Chris Dodd, the former banking committee chairman, said she couldn’t
be confirmed as director. Johnson declined to speculate on
whether she or anyone else could win Senate confirmation.  “I am eager for the White House to send us a nominee so we
can quickly move forward with the conformation process, but I am
not going to do a nose count until the administration signals to
me who they are going to nominate,” Johnson said.  At the hearing, Geithner said he couldn’t answer when Obama
would nominate someone, but said the administration was
consulting with Congress.  “We want to nominate somebody who can be confirmed,”
Geithner said. “And so that’s why it’s taking us a little bit
of time.”  The Obama administration has sounded out the former
Democratic governor of  Michigan , Jennifer Granholm, and the
former Democratic senator from  Delaware , Ted Kaufman, about the
consumer bureau job, Bloomberg News has reported, citing two
people with knowledge of the discussions. Both officials
declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 