-- 
Sept. 11 Attack Anniversary May Pass Without Mastermind’s Trial

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-04-05T22:20:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/sept-11-attack-anniversary-may-pass-without-mastermind-s-trial.html
The 10th anniversary of the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks may come and go without a start in
the trial of the plot’s self-described mastermind, a U.S.
Defense Department spokesman said today.  The criminal case against Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four
alleged accomplices was returned yesterday to the military
commissions system, where it began more than three years ago,
after the Obama administration abandoned plans to try the case
in civilian court in New York.  While officials hope to get through preliminary steps “as
quickly as possible,” the process starts anew and there is no
certainty the trial will start by September, said  Geoff Morrell ,
a Pentagon spokesman.  “I can tell you we certainly hope for it,” Morrell told
reporters at the Pentagon today in response to a question. “Ten
years is a long time for victims to wait for justice.”  The suspects are being held at a military detention center
at the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where the
government has built a high-security judicial complex.  Military prosecutors originally filed charges in February
2008. That case was dropped in January 2010 for the planned move
to New York.  “The desire is to do this as soon as can be while still,
obviously, preserving the defendant’s right to a fair trial,”
Morrell said.  Almost 3,000 people were killed by al-Qaeda’s coordinated
attacks in 2001, when hijacked jets were crashed into the World
Trade Center in  New York , the Pentagon and, after a struggle
with passengers, into a field in  Pennsylvania .  Captive Since 2003  Mohammed was captured in  Pakistan  in 2003 and held in a
secret network of CIA prisons until being sent to Guantanamo in
2006.  The Pentagon’s chief prosecutor for military commissions,
Navy Captain  John Murphy , said yesterday that his office would
file charges against the five suspects “in the near future.”  He declined to say whether prosecutors would seek the death
penalty, as they did the first time.  Officials hope to avoid repeating some of the pre-trial
motions processed in the initial proceedings, Morrell said.  Attorney General  Eric Holder  had spearheaded the plan to
move the group’s trial to  Manhattan  and announced the reversal
yesterday.  Testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee in
November 2009, Holder said he was confident that the five would
be tried safely and successfully and that their release was
“not a possibility.”  Congress objected to holding the trials in New York and
included language blocking the use of public funds to move
Guantanamo detainees to the U.S. for trial in a defense
authorization measure that was passed in December and signed by
Obama in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  