-- 
Serbian Central Bank Seen Raising Rates to 12.5%, Survey Shows

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-04-05T11:11:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/serbian-central-bank-seen-raising-rates-to-12-5-survey-shows.html
Serbia’s central bank will probably
raise  Europe ’s highest benchmark interest rate for the third
time this year to curb mounting price pressures and meet its
inflation target.  The Belgrade-based  Narodna Banka Srbije  will raise its two-
week repurchase rate by a quarter-point to 12.5 percent at a
policy meeting on April 7, according to 14 of 23 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. One sees a half-point increase, one a
jump to 13 percent and seven expect the rate to stay unchanged.  Central banks around the world are struggling to contain
inflation as food prices advance and the price of oil rises amid
turmoil in the Middle East. Serbia, which has raised its main
rate 4.25 percentage points since August, may face pressure to
push it higher as inflation reached 12.6 percent in February and
accelerated in March, analysts including Vladimir Vuckovic said.  “Obviously, the central bank’s rate is going to go up
further as inflation will continue to strengthen through May or
June, but it’s a futile effort because once global food and fuel
prices start falling, inflation will start to ease on its own
regardless of the repo rate,” said Vuckovic, head of research
at the Belgrade-based Economics Institute.  The National Bank of  Serbia  has largely relied on the
firming dinar to fight inflation since the start of 2011. High
rates have attracted fresh capital inflows, boosting the dinar
2.8 percent against the euro since the end of 2010. The currency
traded at 102.46 to the euro at 12:36 p.m. in Belgrade. The
survey of economists showed a median forecast for the dinar at
103.5 at the end of April and 103.8 at the end of May.  Inflation Target  The Serbian central bank is also hoping the euro will rise
against the  U.S. dollar  to ease imported price pressures. The
bank aims to slow inflation this year to the upper end of its 3
percent to 6 percent target band, and toward 4 percent, plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points, in 2012.  Inflation a year from now will be 8 percent, above the
central bank’s goal, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Vuckovic said the Balkan nation faces “rising risks
because the government is not sticking with its own goals” and
may “pay higher public wages than planned in the budget” with
elections looming next year.  “The central bank can address overheated demand, but that
policy channel is still pretty weak in Serbia,” Vukovic said.  Policy makers are being careful with the policy mix so that
it doesn’t trigger excessive dinar gains, affecting exports,
growth and  job creation , central bank Governor Dejan Soskic has
said.  Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic said yesterday that
the dinar’s current level seemed to be “optimal both for
citizens and exporters” and “we would not want to change
that.”  Curbing inflation may be difficult in a year before
elections when the government traditionally loosens spending.
Serbia must keep its 2011 fiscal gap below 4.1 percent of gross
domestic product to comply with the terms of a bailout loan from
the  International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  