-- 
Siemens Forecasts Slowing Growth as Earnings Restrained by Renewables Unit

-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-04-05T14:20:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/siemens-anticipates-growth-rate-will-ease-in-the-second-half.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, anticipated growth will slow in the second
half and said earnings in the quarter that just ended were
burdened by a “disappointing” renewable energy division.  “We expect the growth rate to ease,” Chief Financial
Officer  Joe Kaeser  said on a call with analysts today. Siemens,
which reports under a fiscal year that ends on Sept. 30, 2011,
fell as much as 2.9 percent in Frankfurt, the most in 20 days.  Kaeser said the renewable energy division had a
“disappointing” performance, with “continued challenges” at
the solar thermal unit. The company has taken “tangible”
measures to improve the unit, and successfully managing a
turnaround is a “matter of accountability,” the CFO said.  Siemens is extending efforts to raise profitability and
plans to move some capacity and jobs at a unit making power-
transmission gear to lower-cost locations, Kaeser said. Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  is simplifying the company
structure, with a plan to list lighting bulb division Osram this
year and create a fourth division focusing on infrastructure.  Falling Stock  Siemens fell as much as 2.80 euros to 95.35 euros. The
stock has gained 3.3 percent so far this year, valuing Siemens
at about 87.5 billion euros ($123.9 billion).  The renewable-energy operations, which Siemens built
through acquisitions, are a central component of Loescher’s
strategy to push into clean-energy markets with windmills and
solar-power systems. Siemens plans to add at least 2,000 jobs at
the renewable-energy division this year to meet rising demand,
unit head Rene Umlauft said in an interview in January.  The maker of trains, turbines and health-care scanners is
sticking to stringent rules on making acquisitions, although an
exception is possible, Kaeser said. Some deals conducted this
year in the industry have been “richly valued,” he said.  “Every day you read the newspapers, there’s another big
deal on the front page,” Kaeser said. While Siemens has excess
cash to make large-scale acquisitions, the company will remain
“diligent” with its efficiency targets, the executive said.
Siemens cash holding stood at 15.66 billion euros as of Dec. 31.  Higher Sales  Kaeser predicted “significantly” higher sales in the
fiscal second quarter that ended in March, as new orders
increased by more than 10 percent. The company also said net
income from continued operations rose above the prior-year
period. The company will book some “adverse” one-time costs in
the second quarter tied to some projects, Kaeser said.  Siemens, the manufacturer of Germany’s high-speed InterCity
Express trains, has won orders in the current fiscal year to
supply rolling stock or control systems to subway operators in
Bangkok,  Kuala Lumpur  and Warsaw as well as the Amtrak railway
network in the U.S.  German business confidence in March remained close to a
February record, suggesting  Japan ’s earthquake and higher
borrowing costs may not damp growth in Europe’s largest economy.  Kaeser said an improvement at the renewable-energy division
is a “must-have,” while the building-technologies business
shows promise to improve its margin.  “I am surprised by the hefty share price reaction as it is
fairly obvious that comparison with last year will be tougher in
the third and fourth quarter,” Commerzbank analyst Ingo-Martin Schachel said. “With the situation in Japan adding to
uncertainty, the outlook is somewhat vague, but Siemens
businesses continue to run very well in many areas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  