-- 
Sochi Olympics Are $200 Million Short Of Their Sponsor Target, Chief Says

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-05T15:02:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/sochi-olympics-are-200-million-short-of-their-sponsor-target-chief-says.html
The  2014 Sochi Winter Olympics  are
$200 million short off their target for commercial contracts,
the head of the local organizing committee said.  Sochi has raised $1.1 billion from companies including
Russian airline  OAO Aeroflot  and  OAO Rosneft , the country’s
biggest oil company,  Dmitry Chernyshenko , president and chief
executive officer of the  Sochi 2014 organizing committee , said
in an interview at the Sport Accord conference in London today.  Sochi is aiming to raise an additional $200 million in
contracts between now and the start of the Games, Chernyshenko
said.  “We are not over-confident; this is a realistic
projection,” he said. “We are delivering the Games on time and
within budget.”  Sochi’s total organizing budget for the  Winter Games , the
first to be held in Russia since the collapse of the  Soviet
Union , is $2 billion. The remainder of the budget will come from
merchandising and ticket sales.  Chernyshenko played down terrorism concerns. Russian forces
last week killing at least 17 militants in airstrikes on a
training camp for  suicide bombers  in the Ingushetia region on
the eve of the one-year anniversary of a terrorist attack in the
Moscow subway.  Special forces in the North Caucasus region also detained
two suspects in a January suicide bombing at Moscow’s Domodedovo
Airport. Twin suicide bombings during the morning rush hour in
the Moscow subway killed 40 people a year ago. The North
Caucasus is located near the Black Sea resort of Sochi.  “Terrorism is a global issue,” Chernyshenko said. “It
has no territories, no boundaries. Our state authorities fully
recognize and are fully in charge of delivering the safest and
most secure environment in the region.”  Chernyshenko expects Sochi to be “friendly and calm”
during the 2014 Winter Olympics. “Sochi used to be a very
peaceful place, where 120 different nationalities were living in
peace. Traditionally, it’s a very quiet place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 