-- 
Solar Power May Already Rival Coal, Prompting Installation Surge

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-04-06T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/solar-energy-costs-may-already-rival-coal-spurring-installation-boom.html
Solar panel installations may surge
in the next two years as the cost of generating electricity from
the sun rivals coal-fueled plants, industry executives and
analysts said.  Large photovoltaic projects will cost $1.45 a watt to build
by 2020, half the current price, Bloomberg New Energy Finance
estimated today. The London-based research company says solar is
viable against fossil fuels on the electric grid in the most
sunny regions such as the Middle East.  “We are already in this phase change and are very close to
grid parity,” Shawn Qu, chief executive officer of  Canadian
Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , said in an interview. “In many markets, solar is
already competitive with peak electricity prices, such as in
California and  Japan .”  Chinese companies such as JA Solar Holdings Ltd., Canadian
Solar and Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. are making panels
cheaper, fueled by better cell technology and more streamlined
manufacturing processes. That’s making solar economical in more
places and will put it in competition with coal, without
subsidies, in the coming years, New Energy Finance said.  “The most powerful driver in our industry is the
relentless reduction of cost,” Michael Liebreich, chief
executive officer of New Energy Finance, said at the company’s
annual conference in  New York  yesterday. “In a decade the cost
of solar projects is going to halve again.”  Installation Boom  Installation of solar PV systems will almost double to 32.6
gigawatts by 2013 from 18.6 gigawatts last year, New Energy
Finance estimates. Manufacturing capacity worldwide has almost
quadrupled since 2008 to 27.5 gigawatts, and 12 gigawatts of
production will be added this year. Canadian Solar has about 1.3
gigawatts of capacity and expects to reach 2 gigawatts next
year, Qu said.  “You have to get better at it as well,” said Bill Gallo,
CEO of  Areva SA (CEI) ’s solar unit. The French company could shave
another 20 percent from the cost of making its concentrating
solar thermal technology, and the same proportion from building
and deploying plants, he said.  Electricity from coal costs about 7 cents a kilowatt hour
compared with 6 cents for natural gas and 22.3 cents for solar
photovoltaic energy in the final quarter of last year, according
to New Energy Finance estimates.  Comparisons often overstate the costs of solar because they
may take into account the prices paid by consumers and small
businesses who install roof-top power systems, instead of the
rates utilities charge each other, said Qu of Canadian Solar.  “Solar isn’t expensive,” he said “In many areas of the
solar industry you’re competing with retail power, not wholesale
power.”  Rooftop solar installations also will become cheaper, the
executives said.  “System costs have declined 5 percent to 8 percent (a
year), and we will continue to see that,” SolarCity Inc. CEO
Lyndon Rive said in an interview. The  Foster City , California-
based company is a closely held installer and owner of rooftop
power systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens at the BNEF Summit in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  