-- 
Somali Government ‘Liberates’ Seven Towns on Kenyan Border

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-05T15:44:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/somali-government-liberates-seven-towns-on-kenyan-border-1-.html
Somali government forces have
“liberated” seven towns close to the Kenyan border from the
control of the al-Shabaab militia, enabling refugees to return
home, Somalia’s ambassador to  Kenya  said.  The  Dadaab  refugee complex in northeastern Kenya houses
350,000 refugees, almost four times the number of people the
three camps were originally designed to accommodate.  More refugees are arriving in Kenya every day to escape
renewed fighting in Somalia over the last month, the east
African nation’s president, Mwai Kibaki, said on March 31.  “If these towns are liberated and if we go on to liberate
towns we believe that the people, the refugees who are in these
camps, will go back to their houses,” Ambassador Mohamed Ali
Nur told reporters today in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. The
Somali government took back control of Doolow, Bulo Hawo, Luuq,
Elwaaq, Dhoobley, Diif and Taabdo in the last few days, he said.  Somalia ’s government led by Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed is
fighting insurgents including the al-Shabaab movement, which the
U.S. accuses of having links to al-Qaeda. Somalia has been
without a functioning central administration since 1991, when
ruler Mohamed Siad Barre was ousted.  The Horn of Africa country is facing its worst humanitarian
crisis since the early 1990s because of the conflict and drought
in the region following the failure of the rainy season between
October and December, Nur said. Water is in short supply and
grain prices are rising with the south-central part of the
country hardest hit, he said.  Somalia’s Council of Ministers decided in February to levy
a “drought tax” on the salaries of politicians and civil
servants. Cabinet ministers pay $500 a month, lawmakers $100 a
month and government workers have 5 percent of their wages
withheld to help pay for relief efforts, he said.  Somalia is also appealing for foreign assistance.  “Unless emergency aid gets to those in need soon, I fear
we will see a staggering death toll,” Nur said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 