-- 
SpaceX Says New Rocket Will Challenge Boeing, Lockheed

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-04-05T20:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/spacex-says-new-rocket-will-challenge-boeing-lockheed-in-space.html
Space Exploration Technologies Inc.
plans to challenge  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)  with a
new rocket called the Falcon Heavy, second in size only to the
Apollo-era Saturn V, the chief operating officer said.  The rocket, capable of payloads of at least 117,000 pounds,
will have more than twice the capacity of the space shuttle,
which is retiring this year, or the Delta IV Heavy rocket made
by United Launch Alliance LLC, a joint venture of Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed Martin and Chicago-based Boeing, said
 Elon Musk , CEO of Hawthorne, California-based SpaceX.  “This is a rocket of truly huge scale,” Musk said today
at a news conference in Washington.  The initial demonstration flight of a Falcon Heavy is
scheduled for November or December 2012 at Vandenberg Air Force
Base in California, Musk said. A launch from  Cape Canaveral ,
Florida, is planned for late 2013 or 2014. The company expects
to eventually launch about 20 rockets a year, half Falcon Heavy
rockets and half smaller Falcon 9 rockets which are undergoing
testing, he said.  The Falcon Heavy’s payload is more than a fully-loaded
Boeing 737 jet, said Musk, who is also the company’s chief
rocket designer. The rocket will meet human flight standards and
may be used for missions to the moon or Mars, he said.  “It opens up a range of possibilities for government and
commercial customers,” he said.  Payload Costs  Each launch of the Falcon Heavy is expected to cost between
$80 million and $125 million, a fraction of the cost of the
Delta IV, Musk said. The new rocket’s cost per pound to orbit is
estimated at about $1,000, a record low, he said.  “Falcon Heavy represents a huge economic advantage,” he
said.  SpaceX has spent about $800 million of its own money
developing rockets and spacecraft at facilities in  California 
and Texas, and at launch sites in California, Florida and the
Marshall Islands, Adam Harris, the company’s vice president for
government affairs, said in an interview.  SpaceX is a privately held company. It may consider an
initial public offering of shares toward the end of next year,
Musk said.  NASA  has awarded the company a $1.6 billion contract to
deliver cargo to the International Space Station using the
Falcon 9 rocket and the company’s Dragon spacecraft, over a
dozen launches scheduled to begin late summer or early fall,
Harris said.  The company hopes the Falcon Heavy will compete to deliver
military and spy satellites also, Harris said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in  Washington  
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 