-- 
Stevens Lets Australian Dollar's Surge Do ‘Heavy Lifting’ on Rate Policy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-06T02:42:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/stevens-lets-australian-dollar-do-heavy-lifting-on-rate-policy.html
Reserve Bank of  Australia  Governor
Glenn Stevens is betting a stronger currency will help contain
inflation and allow him to extend an interest-rate pause to help
the economy recover from a possible first-quarter slump.  Stevens held the overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent
for a fourth straight meeting yesterday, and said in a  statement 
after the decision that inflation consistent with the Sydney-
based central bank’s goal is “being assisted by the high level
of the exchange rate.”  Australia’s currency has surged about 13 percent in the
past year as a mining investment boom tightened the labor market
and used up spare capacity, threatening to stoke consumer
prices.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  estimates that a 5 percent
appreciation in Australia’s  exchange rate  in the “medium term”
against currencies of its major trading partners may mean one
fewer 25 basis-point increase in rates may be needed.  “The higher the currency rises and the more the gains are
sustained, the less work the RBA has to do,” said Jarrod Kerr,
director of Australia rates strategy at Credit Suisse AG in
 Singapore , which forecasts the local dollar will climb to $1.05.
“A stronger currency is exactly what the RBA wants.”  Australia’s dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency,
rose to $1.0368 at 12:14 p.m. in Sydney today from $1.0329 in
 New York  yesterday. It touched a record $1.0417 on April 4.  ‘Heavy Lifting’  The currency’s strength has helped slow parts of the
country’s economy, with a report last week showing manufacturing
shrank in March for the sixth time in seven months.  “The free-floating Australian dollar has done much of the
heavy lifting for the bank, passing restrictive financial
conditions most pointedly to those who are best able to afford
them in the export-led resources sector,” said Sean Keane,
managing director of Triple T Consulting, a financial advisory
company in Auckland.  The local dollar should continue to appreciate for the rest
of this year, especially if Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is slow to signal higher rates in the U.S., Keane said.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said last month she’s worried
about the stresses posed by the appreciation of the dollar on
areas of the economy outside the China-fueled  mining industry .  Australian ‘Burdens’  “I’m concerned about the burdens that this places on some
industries and some parts of the country,” Gillard said in a
March 3 interview. “I’m very conscious that a strong Australian
dollar has benefits and it has burdens. It certainly has burdens
for some of our industries like manufacturing and tourism.”  Mining companies have helped tighten Australia’s labor
market, which posted record job creation last year. As natural
disasters disrupted commerce at the end of last year, the
economy lost a net 2,300 jobs from December through February
after gaining 362,800 during the first 11 months of 2010,
according to the statistics bureau.  Employment growth “has moderated,” inflation is
consistent with the central bank’s goal and the currency’s
strength is helping ease prices pressures, Stevens said.  Australian employers probably added 24,000 jobs in March
and the  unemployment rate  held at 5 percent for a third straight
month, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 25 economists before a report tomorrow.  Rate Pause  Increased demand for skilled workers at projects such as
Chevron Corp.’s A$43 billion Gorgon liquefied natural-gas
project, under construction in  Western Australia , threatens to
stoke wage growth and inflation.  “The labor market will tighten up further over coming
months and inflation will rise, requiring the RBA to lift rates
early in the second half, July or August,” said Paul Bloxham,
chief economist at HSBC in Sydney and a former  Reserve Bank 
official. “A key risk to this is further exchange-rate
strength, which could do some of the RBA’s work for it.”  The Reserve Bank, which raised rates seven times from
October 2009 to November last year, is pausing as the country
recovers from flooding and cyclones in Queensland state.
Australian growth accelerated to 0.7 percent in the fourth
quarter, from a revised 0.1 percent three months earlier.  Tropical Cyclone Yasi in February tore through sugar- and
banana-producing areas, following two months of flooding in
Queensland that killed 36 people, shut mines and wiped out
crops. The state produces 80 percent of the coking coal exports
from Australia and grows more than 30 percent of the nation’s
fruit and vegetables.  Queensland Damage  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said this week the disasters will
likely cost the economy about A$9 billion after the government
raised estimates on losses to the coal industry by 20 percent.  Australia’s trade balance unexpectedly swung to a deficit
in February for the first time in almost a year as disruptions
from natural disasters cut mining shipments, a government report
showed yesterday.  The shortfall ended a 10-month run of trade surpluses, the
longest stretch since 1972-1973,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
economists led by  Bill Evans  said. The “much weaker than
expected” trade figures mean the economy may have contracted
0.2 percent in the first quarter, according to Westpac.  Australian home-loan approvals declined in February at more
than twice the pace economists forecast as the disasters
disrupted the housing market, a government report showed today.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments dropped 5.6 percent from January, when they fell a
revised 6.3 percent. That compares with the median estimate for
approvals to slip 2 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 21
economists.  “The natural disasters over the summer have reduced output
and the resumption of coal production in flooded mines is taking
longer than initially expected,” Stevens said in a statement
after yesterday’s decision. “Commodity prices, including  oil
prices , have risen over recent months, pushing up measures of
consumer price inflation in many countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  