-- 
Suzlon’s New Bond Priced at 8.7% Premium to Last Share Close

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-04-05T04:56:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/suzlon-energy-says-initial-conversion-price-of-bonds-54-01-rupees-share.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s biggest
wind-turbine maker, priced $150 million of its new convertible
bonds due April 2016 at 54.01 rupees ($1.21), a premium of 8.7
percent to yesterday’s closing share price.  The five-year bonds will have a yield to maturity of 6.5
percent, Suzlon said in a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange
today. The Ahmedabad-based company said it has an option to
raise another $50 million of convertible debt.  Suzlon plans to buy out minority shareholders in its
 Repower Systems AG (RPW)  unit, which may be funded with cash, debt or
proceeds from selling its holding in  Hansen Transmissions
International NV (HSN) , Chief Financial Officer Robin Banerjee said
yesterday. Suzlon has total debt equivalent to $4.2 billion
payable through 2017, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
managed the convertible  bond issue , according to the statement.  Suzlon, with four straight quarters of losses, is trying to
improve its finances and keep pace with competitors as prospects
may increase for more wind-power developments after the Japan
nuclear crisis.  The shares have lost 34 percent in the last 12 months,
while the Bloomberg Wind Energy Index declined 1.5 percent. The
index tracks 64 wind power generators and suppliers globally,
including Vestas Wind Systems A/S, Siemens AG and Alstom SA.  Suzlon declined as much as 3.8 percent to 47.80 rupees and
was at 48.40 rupees at 9:25 a.m. in Mumbai trading.  The wind-turbine maker will appoint an auditor to determine
the valuation of the Repower stake that it doesn’t already own,
and will ask a court to consider the result, Banerjee said
yesterday. Minority shareholders must sell their shares at the
determined price if the court approves the purchase, he said.
Suzlon expects to complete the deal in less than a year.  The Indian manufacturer currently owns 95.16 percent of
Repower, according to a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 