-- 
Swaps Signal Further Rate Increases Adding to Yuan Pressure: China Credit

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-04-06T02:36:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/swaps-signal-further-rate-increases-adding-to-yuan-pressure-china-credit.html
The cost of fixing borrowing costs
in  China  suggests policy makers will raise interest rates at
least once more this year as food and fuel costs surge, adding
pressure on the yuan to strengthen.  The five-year non-deliverable swap rate jumped 26 basis
points in the past three weeks to 4.23 percent, after a report
showed a higher-than-forecast inflation rate of 4.9 percent in
February. The People’s Bank of China’s latest increase was
announced yesterday before an April 15 report that will show
consumer prices climbed 5.2 percent in March, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of nine economists.  Brazil ,  Poland ,  India ,  South Korea  and  Thailand  all raised
benchmark borrowing costs in the past month, increasing the
allure of local currency-denominated assets as interest rates in
the U.S. and  Europe  remain near zero. China’s deposit rate of
3.25 percent compares with benchmarks of 11.75 percent in
Brazil, 8 percent in Russia and 6.75 percent for India.  “It might be sooner than people in the market thought and
some are concerned that means the next inflation number is going
to be very large,” said Greg Lesko, who helps oversee $800
million at Deltec Asset Management in  New York . “Ultimately,
it’s the right thing to do. The lending rates are still very low
compared to where the economic growth is and where inflation
is.”  The central bank boosted its benchmark one-year lending
rate by a quarter point to 6.31 percent effective today and the
one-year deposit rate rose from 3 percent.  Two-year swaps tied to the one-year deposit rate rose 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 3.45 percent in
 Shanghai  today, implying a 40 basis point increase in the coming
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Buyers of the
contracts receive the deposit rate for one year, after which the
floating payment is reset for the second year.  Government Bonds  “Another two hikes will be possible in the second quarter
and one in the third,” said Liu Li-Gang, an economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group in  Hong Kong . “Given
China is still facing a strong pass-through of imported
inflation, the yuan will be allowed fast appreciation.”  The yield on three-year government bonds in Shanghai
climbed 5 basis points to 3.25 percent in the first quarter and
closed on April 1 at 3.26 percent. The rate compares with 6.59
percent for similar-maturity debt in  Russia , 7.84 percent for
India and 12.91 percent for Brazil.  The yuan climbed 4.3 percent in the past year and touched
6.5449 per dollar in Shanghai today, the strongest level since
1993. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.1 percent to
6.4085 in Hong Kong, showing traders are pricing in 2.1 percent
appreciation. The Taiwan dollar climbed 0.9 percent to NT$29.07
and South Korea’s won advanced 0.4 percent to 1,085.43.  ‘Going Is Good’  “The basic implication is probably that Asian currencies
are more attractive,” said  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage
about $2 billion in emerging-market debt in London at Aviva
Investors, a unit of the U.K.’s second-largest insurer. “China
tends to tighten when the going is good. So, Chinese tightening
is often coincident with strong global stock markets.”  Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., Citigroup Inc., and UBS AG
predicted the rate increase before the end of April. All 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast a move by the end of
the second quarter. The Shanghai Composite Index of shares added
0.4 percent to 2,978.25.  “With China being a step ahead, it should be positive for
equities,” said Jerome Gonzalez, Manila-based  fund manager  at
Philequity Management Inc., who helps manage about $90 million.
“China’s central bank has led the way through the recovery.
They were the ones who first loosened up their monetary policies
during the crisis. They were again a step ahead when their
economy started picking up.”  ‘Comfortable’  Central bank Deputy Governor Yi Gang said March 23 that
rates were at a “comfortable” level and that he was “not too
worried” by price increases. Inflation may ease “sharply” in
the second half on moderating economic growth, smaller increases
in food costs and favorable year-earlier bases for comparison,
said Mark Williams, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London .  Five-year credit-default swaps on China’s sovereign bonds
have fallen about 5 basis points in the past month to 70.
Credit-default swaps insure debt against non-payment, and
traders use them to speculate on  credit quality . An increase
suggests deteriorating perceptions of creditworthiness and a
drop shows improvement. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on
a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  China’s inflation has been driven mainly by food prices,
which rose at an 11 percent annual pace in February. In
addition, Premier Wen Jiabao’s efforts to boost incomes and
consumer spending mean the government is targeting an increase
in minimum wages of 13 percent a year through 2015.  Pork, Copper  Pork prices in China surged 40 percent since late May to a
30-month high, reflecting rising consumption of the meat. Oil
has climbed 31 percent in the past six months as unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa disrupted supply. Copper prices
jumped 15 percent in London as traders anticipated a recovery in
the global economy.  “We are still expecting one more rate hike,” Mirza Baig,
a Singapore-based currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG,
 Germany ’s largest bank. “Asian central banks will continue to
hike  interest rates  given what’s going on in the global
commodities markets.”  Inflation may stay above 5 percent in the first half, said
 Wang Tao , a Beijing-based economist for UBS AG. She predicts a
rate increase in June and another is possible in the third
quarter. The economy will grow 9.3 percent this year, she said,
faster than the  World Bank ’s 9 percent forecast.  Not Overheating  While  China’s economy  “isn’t overheating,” policy makers
still need to raise interest rates and let the currency
appreciate, said Nalin Chutchotitham, a Bangkok-based analyst at
Kasikornbank Pcl, Thailand’s third-largest lender.  “If you look at numbers in China, from bank loans to
fixed-asset investment to property prices, they are all slowing
down a little bit,” she said. “We can still expect China to
keep raising their interest rates and, based on economic
fundamentals, the yuan is still going to appreciate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  