-- 
Swiss Stocks Increase; Novartis, Sulzer Gain as Swisscom Slides in Zurich

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-04-05T16:32:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/swiss-stocks-increase-novartis-sulzer-gain-as-swisscom-slides-in-zurich.html
Swiss stocks climbed as investors
awaited the minutes of the latest meeting of the Federal Open
Market Committee.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  rose 1.7 percent.  Sulzer AG (SUN) , the world’s
second-largest maker of pumps, surged 3.3 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies gained 0.2 percent to 6,430.3 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich. The gauge has advanced 6.8 percent since this
year’s low on March 16 as investors speculated that Japan’s
largest earthquake on record and the popular revolts in north
Africa and the Middle East won’t derail the economic recovery.
The broader Swiss Performance Index also added 0.2 percent
today.  “Things are consolidating,” said Beat Wittmann, Chief
Executive Officer of Dynapartners AG in Zollikon, Switzerland.
“We’re in a mid-stage recovery of the 2008-09 recession. Still,
we’re positive on equities.”  U.S. service industries grew less than forecast in March, a
sign that the biggest part of the economy is trailing the gains
in manufacturing.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses decreased to 57.3 from 59.7 in
February. Economists had forecast that the gauge would fall to
59.5, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. A reading above 50 signals growth for about 90 percent
of the economy.  The  Federal Reserve  will publish the minutes from the
FOMC’s March 15 meeting at 2 p.m. Washington time, after the
close of trading in Europe.  “Raise Rates”  “We’re going to see the ECB probably raise rates
tomorrow,” said John Ryding, chief economist and co-founder of
RDQ Economics, on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
Betty Liu today. “The Fed should be moving to that kind of exit
strategy.”  China raised  interest rates  today for the fourth time since
the end of the global financial crisis to restrain inflation and
limit the risk of asset bubbles in the fastest-growing major
economy.  Portugal’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors
Service, which said the government will probably seek a European
bailout. Moody’s downgraded Portugal’s long-term government bond
ratings by one notch to Baa1 from A3, and said the rating
remains under review for another possible downgrade.  Novartis, Sulzer  Novartis added 1.7 percent to 50.90 Swiss francs for the
biggest gain in the SMI.  Winterthur, Switzerland-based Sulzer gained 3.3 percent to
144.80 francs.  Swisscom AG (SCMN) , the nation’s biggest fixed and mobile phone
operator fell 1.1 percent to 411.50 francs after Credit Suisse
Group AG downgraded the shares to “neutral” versus
“outperform.” Competition in Italy and price cuts in
Switzerland will affect first-quarter results, according to
Justin Funnell, an analyst at the bank in  London .  Evolva Holding SA (EVE) , the Reinach, Switzerland-based
biopharmaceutical company, tumbled 6.2 percent to 1.52 francs,
its first loss in four days.  “We continue to see pressure on the shares as venture
capitalists are trying to exit,” wrote Andrew Weiss, an analyst
at Vontobel Holding AG in Zurich.  Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA (NWRN)  dropped 5.1 percent to 6.55
francs after the Italian biotechnology company reported a full-
year net loss of 20.5 million euros ($29.2 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  