-- 
U.A.E. Shares Fall, Led by Dubai, on Concern Gains Overdone

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-04-05T10:33:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/u-a-e-shares-fall-led-by-dubai-on-concern-gains-overdone.html
United Arab Emirates shares fell,
sending Dubai’s benchmark index to an almost two-week low, on
speculation recent gains are overdone and as oil declined for
the first time in four days. Qatar’s measure advanced.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest sky
scraper, retreated for a third day and  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) ,
the biggest Shariah-compliant lender in the U.A.E., decreased
the most in three weeks. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slipped 0.7
percent to 1,537.68, the lowest level since March 23, at the 2
p.m. close in the emirate. The measure soared 10 percent in
March. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  fell 0.4 percent, paring
the gain in the past month to 2.4 percent.  “There was a strong rally during the last few weeks and as
we’re seeing nothing major in news flow we have some profit
taking today,” said Sebastien Henin, who helps oversee $110
million at The National Investor in  Abu Dhabi . “Investors don’t
want to position themselves in the current market just yet. We
will probably see some more profit taking in the coming days.”  The 30 companies listed on Dubai’s benchmark index are
trading at about 21 times reported earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with about 14 times for the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Stocks in the Gulf rallied last
month as concern eased that regional unrest would spread to
 Saudi Arabia , the Arab world’s largest economy. The kingdom’s
 Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  surged 10 percent in March and the
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  gained 6 percent.  Oil Falls  Protests across the Middle East and North Africa that
ousted leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia  have spread to Syria and
sparked a war in  Libya . Muammar Qaddafi’s diplomatic outreach
failed to win backing from European leaders, as Italy rejected a
reported cease-fire proposal and recognized the rebels’ interim
council as the nation’s legitimate government.  Oil for May delivery fell as much as 0.9 percent to $107.50
a barrel. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council,
including the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia, supply about a fifth of
the world’s oil. Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul lost 0.3 percent at 1:23
p.m. in  Riyadh .  Emaar retreated 0.9 percent, the most since March 30, to
3.17 dirhams. Dubai Islamic dropped 1.3 percent, the most since
March 15, to 2.21 dirhams.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  rose 0.4 percent to 8,496.25, the highest
since Feb. 20. The central bank cut the repurchase, the
overnight deposit and the lending rate. Oman’s benchmark stock
index and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index climbed 0.3 percent,
while Kuwait’s gauge was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  