-- 
U.K. Will Scrutinize EDF Profit From Carbon Tax, Lawmaker Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-04-05T14:12:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/u-k-will-scrutinize-edf-profit-from-carbon-tax-lawmaker-says.html
The U.K. will scrutinize Electricite
de France SA’s profit from its nuclear  power plants  under a  new
carbon tax , according to the chairman of parliament’s energy and
climate change committee.  “There is constant suspicion on the part of consumers that
the electricity companies simply exploit their position,”  Tim Yeo , a Conservative member of parliament, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “I think there’ll be very close scrutiny
of what happens here and we want to make sure that consumers are
treated fairly.”  Chancellor  George Osborne  fixed a carbon tax of 4.94 pounds
($8.02) a metric ton from 2013 to raise revenue and prompt
investment into power generation such as wind farms and nuclear.
Wind farms are subsidized and the coalition government has said
no subsidy will be given to new nuclear power stations. The
government indicated the tax, part of the Conservative-Liberal
Democrat coalition agreement when they took office in May 2010,
may rise to 7.28 pounds in 2014 and 9.86 pounds in 2015.  Nuclear generation, which emits almost no carbon, may
benefit from higher electricity rates after the tax on fossil-
fueled power generation is introduced in 2013, Citigroup Inc.
said last month. EDF, owner of eight of the 10 nuclear power
stations in Britain, may earn as much as 154 million pounds
($250 million), the bank said. Kaa Holmes, an EDF spokesman in
 London , wasn’t immediately available to comment.  ‘High Carbon Price’  “Having a decent high carbon price is essential to drive
more investment in lower carbon alternative technologies but
frankly what’s been announced so far is not going to transform
the situation,” said Yeo, 66, who is also chairman of London-
based Eco City Vehicles Plc, a distributor of cleaner vehicles
and  AFC Energy Plc,  a maker of fuel cells.  The European Union’s carbon cap-and-trade program already
requires Britain’s power stations to buy permits to cover a
portion of emissions and they’ll have to purchase all allowances
from 2013. EU permits for December fell 0.9 percent to 17.16
euros a metric ton as of 1:30 p.m. in London. They have gained
21 percent this year.  “I certainly hope that the EU will consider” a carbon
floor in its own market to help drive emissions reductions, he
said. The measure could offer “an alternative” to tightening
emissions limits, which is less popular in nations still heavily
dependent on coal for power generation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  