-- 
U.K. Says Nuclear Plants Will Move Ahead During Study on Safety

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-04-05T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/u-k-says-nuclear-plants-will-move-ahead-during-study-on-safety.html
The U.K. government will allow work
on building new nuclear  power plants  to progress as it conducts
a study of the disaster at an atomic facility in Japan, the
minister in charge of  climate change  said.  There will be no “material delay” in the U.K.’s plan to
allow new nuclear generators at eight sites, Climate Change
Minister Greg Barker said in an interview in  New York . The
report, he said, is due to be handed to ministers next month.  Barker’s remarks were aimed at assuaging concerns that
Britain’s reactor-building program would be held up while the
nuclear regulator studies the accident in Japan, caused when an
earthquake and tsunami interrupted power to cooling pumps at a
Tokyo Electric Power Co. facility. The U.K. estimates it needs
investment of 200 billion pounds ($320 billion) to replace aging
generators including nuclear plants by 2010.  “We’re not proposing to build in an earthquake zone, and
we’re not proposing to build somewhere prone to tsunamis, but we
will be looking to see what can be taken from that terrible
crisis,” Barker, a Conservative member of Parliament in the
coalition government, said.  E.ON AG (EOAN) ,  EDF SA (EDF)  and  RWE AG (RWE)  are among the companies bidding
for work replacing Britain’s aging atomic power stations.
Germany halted nuclear stations and said it would review whether
it should continue with building more, and China and  India  also
are studying what they should change as a result of the accident
in Japan.  Safety Report  Britain’s Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  fanned concerns
about a delay last week, when he told reporters that the new
plants may never be built because of raising costs associated
with new safety standards.  Energy Secretary Chris Huhne’s last month asked Mike Weightman, the country’s chief nuclear inspector, to determine
what the U.K. can learn about the accident in  Japan . Barker
dismissed the idea that the report would make any conclusions
that would hold up work.  “We aren’t expecting any surprises and are equally
determined to learn any lessons that are applicable in the
U.K.,” Barker said. “There’s no change to our timetable.”  It’s too soon to tell if the incident at the Fukushima
power plant will affect global emissions targets, he said. “But
it will drive an even greater sense of the need to save energy
to reduce dependency,” he said. Energy efficiency will be the
technology that receives the greatest boost from the disaster at
Fukushima, he said.  “We don’t see in the U.K. a need for any major departure
from our strategy as a result of Fukushima. Safety remains our
paramount concern but we see no reason today to divert from our
published plans,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net  on 