-- 
U.K. Stocks Retreat From a Six-Week High; Barclays, National Grid Decline

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-04-05T16:31:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/u-k-stocks-retreat-from-a-six-week-high-barclays-national-grid-decline.html
The U.K.’s benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) 
fell from a six-week high, led by declines in companies from
 Invensys Plc (ISYS)  to International Consolidated Airlines Group SA.  Invensys fell 2.2 percent after Siemens AG forecast slower
growth in the second half of the year. IAG,  Europe ’s third-
biggest airline, slid 1.5 percent as crude oil traded above $108
a barrel.  National Grid Plc (NG/)  led utilities lower, after HSBC
Holdings Plc lowered its recommendation for the shares.  The FTSE 100 declined 9.92, or 0.2 percent, to 6,007.06 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The measure had rallied 5.1
percent in the previous two weeks as better-than-forecast U.S.
jobs data boosted optimism about the economy. The  FTSE All-Share
Index (ASX)  also fell 0.2 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
slid 0.1 percent.  “After the surge by shares globally in the last few weeks,
it looks like investors are taking stock of valuations at
current levels,” said Will Hedden, a London-based sales trader
at IG Index. “With oil at 30-month highs and the U.K. economic
recovery still looking fragile, it is difficult to come up with
a sensible argument for share prices to move significantly
higher in the short term.”  Stocks fell as the British Chambers of Commerce said the
first-quarter rebound in the U.K.’s economy was weaker than
predicted. Even so, separate figures showed that service-
industry growth accelerated to the fastest pace in more than a
year in March.  Invensys, IAG  Invensys, the maker of controls for Whirlpool washing
machines, led declining shares in the FTSE 100, dropping 2.2
percent to 344 pence. Siemens said growth will slow in the
second half and said earnings in the quarter that just ended
were burdened by a “disappointing” renewable energy division.  IAG dropped 1.5 percent to 221 pence, pacing a retreat in
European airlines as crude oil traded near a 30-month high.
Analysts at Societe Generale SA said the airline sector “would
be the hardest hit” by the increase in  oil prices  and become
“loss-making again.” The bank named IAG as one of the “worst
sector performers.”  National Grid, which manages energy grids in the U.K.,
dropped 1.8 percent to 589 pence after HSBC lowered its
recommendation for the utility to “underweight” from
“neutral.”  Barclays Falls  Barclays Plc (BARC)  slipped 0.5 percent to 286.75 pence, paring an
earlier loss of as much as 2.8 percent. The Financial Times
reported that Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  may
increase the bank’s risk profile amid speculation that its
return on equity will decline or remain little changed this
year. The newspaper cited people familiar with the matter.  A Barclays spokesman today told Bloomberg News that it is
“fiction” to suggest that the bank is looking to increase
risk-taking to boost profit.  TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  advanced, climbing 2.4 percent to 228.5
pence, after parent company TUI AG was said to be in advanced
talks to sell as much as 30 percent of Hapag-Lloyd.  A person with knowledge of the matter said TUI has held
talks to sell stakes in Hapag-Lloyd to a state fund in Oman and
Chinese logistics firm HNA Group Co. The company last month sold
part of its stake in Hapag to the container line’s other
shareholder and said it may sell more through an initial public
offering.  We see an “IPO as particularly challenging in current
falling freight rate environment,” Julia Winarso, a London-
based analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in a
report to clients dated yesterday. “A stake sale to a strategic
investor with a long-term investment perspective could secure a
better price than an IPO at this point.”  ARM Holdings   ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , the U.K. designer of chips that help
power Apple Inc.’s iPhone, gained 2.6 percent to 588.5 pence.
European chipmakers gained after Texas Instruments Inc. agreed
to buy National Semiconductor Corp. for about $6.5 billion.  “We expect this deal to drive additional consolidation in
the analogue sector,” UBS AG wrote in a report to clients
today. “Not only do we expect larger companies to acquire
smaller ones, but we also expect to see mergers of equals.”  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  jumped 4.4 percent to 2,518 pence
after its unit won regulatory approval to buy part of Cairn
India Ltd., as the mining company plans to spend $9.6 billion on
assets including the nation’s biggest inland oil deposit.  Sesa Goa Ltd.’s proposal to minority shareholders for 20
percent of Cairn  India  was cleared by the  Securities and
Exchange Board of India , and the offer will open subscription
next week, Vedanta Chairman  Anil Agarwal  said in Mumbai today.  The  Press Trust of India  reported that India’s cabinet may
approval Vedanta’s bid at a meeting tomorrow, citing a person it
didn’t identify.  Resolution Plc jumped 3.2 percent to 303.8 pence after
Citigroup Inc. reiterated its “buy” recommendation. Analysts
said the investment case for the buyout firm “rests on the
potential for value generation from U.K. life restructuring and
strategic optionality in the international business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  