-- 
U.K. Labour Lawmaker Calls for ‘More Robust’ Bank-Bonus Curbs

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-04-05T15:15:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/u-k-labour-lawmaker-calls-for-more-robust-bank-bonus-curbs.html
The U.K. government should draw up
tougher curbs on bankers’ pay and place “more robust” checks
on ensuring lenders extend credit to small companies, opposition
Labour Party lawmaker Chuka Umunna said.  An existing agreement between Britain’s biggest banks and
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  known as Project
Merlin “isn’t worth the paper it is written on” because the
government has no way of enforcing it, said Umunna, who sits on
the Treasury Select Committee of the House of Commons.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  agreed in February to pay
lower bonuses to U.K. staff than last year and make loans of
about 190 billion pounds ($310 billion) to companies to help
bolster the economic recovery.  “Unfortunately, on each of these objectives Project Merlin
falls short of expectations,” Umunna said in Parliament,
according to remarks released by his office in London today.
“The government needs to look again at these issues.”  A government-appointed commission is scheduled to report
next week on whether banks should have their retail and
investment-banking arms separated to help mitigate the effects
of a future financial crisis. The Project Merlin accord was
reached after two months of wrangling between ministers and bank
chiefs over demands for lower bonuses as the government raises
taxes and reduces spending to narrow the budget deficit.  Umunna said testimony to his parliamentary committee from
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  showed the central bank
will do little to make sure lenders stick to their targets. The
partly nationalized RBS and Lloyds will also be able to sidestep
compensation commitments using a loophole that lets them pay
more if it’s in the interests of their shareholders, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  