-- 
U.K. Shop-Price Inflation Slows in March as Bank of England Holds Meeting

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/u-k-shop-price-inflation-slows-in-march-as-bank-of-england-holds-meeting.html
U.K. shop-price inflation slowed for
the first time in four months in March as  Bank of England  policy
makers meet for this month’s interest-rate decision.  Prices charged by retailers rose 2.4 percent from a year
ago after advancing 2.7 percent in February, the  British Retail
Consortium  in London said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s
the weakest gain since December. In the month, prices fell 0.3
percent after increasing 0.7 percent in February.  While retailers are under pressure to raise prices after
the government increased the country’s sales tax and the cost of
commodities surged, they’re offering discounts to encourage
 consumer spending , the BRC said. Bank of England officials will
probably leave their benchmark rate on hold tomorrow to support
the economy, according to a Bloomberg News survey, even after
inflation accelerated to 4.4 percent in February, more than
twice the central bank’s target.  “Global commodities are still exerting considerable upward
pressure on retailers’ costs, but a greater intensity of
promotions has led to a fall in year-on-year food inflation,”
BRC Director General  Stephen Robertson  said in the report. “The
rise in overall inflation is not coming from the high street but
is being driven by escalating fuel prices and utility bills.”  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee will begin
its monthly two-day policy meeting today after three of the
nine-member panel voted to raise interest rates last month. All
57 economists in a Bloomberg survey predict the bank to keep its
benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent when
officials announce their decision at noon tomorrow in London.  ‘Sharp’ Decrease  Annual food-price inflation slowed to 4 percent in March
from 4.5 percent in February, while non-food price gains slowed
to 1.5 percent from 1.6 percent, the BRC said. Fresh fish and
fruit prices saw a “sharp” decrease from a year earlier, with
the proportion of groceries sold on promotion rising to a record
of 40 percent, the group said.  On the month, food prices fell 0.5 percent, the biggest
drop since August 2009, today’s report showed. Non-food prices
decreased 0.2 percent in March from February, the first monthly
decline since July, the lobby group said.  A separate report by KPMG LLP and the Recruitment and
Employment Confederation today indicated that the pace of job
growth slowed last month. Their gauge of growth in full-time job
placements reported by employment consultancies fell to 59.7 in
March from 62.7 in February. A measure of demand for temporary
staff dropped to 58.8 from 61.5, the report showed. Readings
above 50 indicate an increase in hiring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  