-- 
U.S. Fiscal Meltdown in Spitting Distance: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-04-05T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/u-s-fiscal-crisis-in-spitting-distance-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff.html
The two parties are having a heated
debate over the Republican plan to slice $61 billion off Uncle
Sam’s projected $3.6 trillion budget. If the Republicans get
their way, the deficit will fall from 9.5 percent of gross
domestic product to 9.1 percent. If they don’t, they’ll probably
shut the government for a couple of days. Then they’ll
compromise on, say, a $40 billion budget cut, having proved they
gave it their best shot.  Arguing over lowering our deficit by just 0.4 percent of
GDP when we need to run massive surpluses to deal with the baby
boomers’ impending retirement is, pick your metaphor --
rearranging the Titanic’s furniture, Nero’s fiddling, Custer’s
Last Stand.  Is this malign fiscal neglect, or has Congress somehow
missed what its own  Congressional Budget Office  is indicating?
CBO’s baseline budget updates suggest the date for reaching what
 Carmen Reinhart ,  Kenneth Rogoff  and other prominent economists
believe is a critical insolvency threshold -- a 90 percent ratio
of federal debt held by the public to gross domestic product --
has moved four years closer, in just nine months!  The CBO releases its realistic long-term forecast -- the
alternative fiscal scenario -- every June. In between, it
provides us with periodic updates of its unrealistic 10-year
baseline scenario, based on “ current law .” Congress, for
political reasons, forces the agency to interpret current law in
ways that generally make spending much lower and taxes much
higher than is likely.  Take It Seriously  Consequently, no one should take the projected levels of
spending and taxes in CBO’s baseline scenario seriously. But
everyone should take very seriously updates to the baseline.
Why? Because these changes give us a pretty good idea of how the
next alternative fiscal scenario will differ from the previous
one.  Last June’s analysis had us going critical (crossing the 90
percent debt-to-GDP threshold) in 2021. But back then the CBO
assumed the Bush tax cuts wouldn’t be extended for the rich
starting in 2011. In December, President  Barack Obama  dropped
his demand to immediately raise taxes on the rich in exchange
for a one-year cut in the payroll tax, which helps fund Social
Security. So much for raising revenue at a time when we are
borrowing 37 cents to cover each dollar of spending.  In January, the CBO modified its 10-year baseline forecast,
taking into account the December deal. By my calculations, this
meant the 90 percent threshold would be crossed in 2019.  What a Difference  A lot can change in a few weeks. In February, the president
released his budget and, lo and behold, it proposes maintaining
the Bush tax cuts for all except the rich not through 2013, as
in the December deal, but indefinitely. In so doing, the
president conveniently took the issue of tax increases off the
next election’s table.  On March 18, when the CBO released a  new forecast  that
incorporated the president’s budget, the 90 percent mark had
moved up to 2017.  Actually, 2017 is optimistic. Uncle Sam’s creditors will
soon start charging exorbitant  interest rates  -- like those
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  now face. The market’s concern with
those countries’ bonds is outright default, which is unlikely in
the U.S. What is likely is rising inflation as the  Federal
Reserve  continues to print vast quantities of money to help pay
the Treasury’s bills.  I generally don’t give investment advice, but  Bill Gross ,
co-founder of PIMCO and manager of the world’s largest bond
mutual fund, has it  right . It’s time to dump all but your
very short-term  U.S. Treasuries  and other dollar-denominated
bonds. A safer alternative is Treasury inflation protected
securities, or TIPS.  Real Problem  To be clear, the real problem isn’t paying for our current
spending. The real problem is paying for the 78 million  baby
boomers  as they retire and claim their promised Medicare,
Medicaid and Social Security benefits, and as spending on the
new health-care exchanges expands far beyond what’s been
projected.  There is one bright spot. Paul Ryan, chairman of the House
Budget Committee, has included a version of the Rivlin-Ryan
Medicare plan in the Republican budget proposal. This bipartisan
proposal, co-authored with Alice Rivlin, former CBO director and
head of the Office of Management and Budget under Bill Clinton,
would transform Medicare from its current fee-for-service,
defined-benefit structure into a defined contribution system in
which the government’s liability is strictly capped.  Rivlin-Ryan would be a huge step in the right direction,
but what’s really needed is a complete redo that would keep
total government health-care spending where it is now, at about
10 percent of GDP.  Common Ground  To that end, I launched  www.thepurplehealthplan.org  last week
to solicit endorsements for what I call the Purple Health Plan -
- a proposal that offers common ground to both Republicans and
Democrats. To date, five Nobel laureates in economics,  George Akerlof , Edmund Phelps, Thomas Schelling,  Vernon Smith  and
William Sharpe, have signed on. So have other prominent
economists.  If you’re a Democrat, don’t worry. This system is more or
less what’s in place in  Germany , Holland,  Switzerland  and  Israel 
-- hardly right-wing bastions. If you’re a Republican, don’t
worry. This is a voucher system that’s fair to all and keeps
 government spending  from exploding.  If you like the plan, please endorse it and share it with
others. This includes the president and House Speaker  John Boehner , who should take the Purple Health Plan and adopt it as
their joint proposal.  (Laurence Kotlikoff is professor of economics at Boston
University, president of Economic Security Planning Inc., and
author of “The Healthcare Fix.” The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writers of this column:
 Laurence Kotlikoff  at  kotlikoff@bu.edu ;  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  