-- 
Service Industry Expansion in U.S. Likely Near the Fastest Rate Since 2005

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-05T04:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/u-s-service-industry-probably-grew-close-to-fastest-since-2005.html
Service industries  probably grew in
March at close to the fastest pace in more than five years, an
indication the U.S. economic expansion is broadening beyond
manufacturing, economists said before a report today.  The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey for the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing gauge is
59.5 after a 59.7 reading in February that was the highest since
August 2005. A figure above 50 signals growth for the Tempe,
Arizona-based ISM’s measure.  Accelerating job growth may help sustain household
spending, which faces headwinds from higher food and fuel bills.
Federal Reserve officials said last month the economy is on
“firmer footing,” diminishing the need to extend a bond
purchase program beyond June.  “The economy is expanding, albeit slowly, but in a steady
sort of way,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “I would expect
the ISM services index to continue a little bit higher than its
current level and then stabilize in the low 60s area” in coming
months, he said.  The ISM report is due at 10 a.m. New York time. The 68
estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 57.7 to 61.  The supply managers’ group reported on April 1 that its
manufacturing index expanded last month at close to the fastest
pace in almost seven years.  Manufacturing Index  The factory gauge was little changed at 61.2 after a
February reading of 61.4 as production rose to the highest level
since January 2004. The strength in the industry is generating
greater demand for services, which account for almost 90 percent
of the economy, benefiting companies like  FedEx Corp. (FDX)   Memphis-based FedEx, which operates the world’s biggest
cargo airline, said March 17 that its per-share earnings for the
fiscal fourth quarter ending May 31 will be $1.66 to $1.83 a
share.  “Our businesses are performing strongly in the  United
States , where industrial production growth is expected to
approach nearly 5 percent in 2011, outpacing GDP and supporting
overall transportation volumes,” Fred Smith, chief executive
officer of FedEx, said in a teleconference.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Transportation Index,
which includes companies like Union Pacific and FedEx, has
increased 23 percent in the last 12 months, compared with a 12
percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Equipment Transportation  The economic expansion is extending to smaller businesses.
Matt Ziegler, president of  ZMac Transportation LLC , said demand
to move mining equipment and parts of vessels this year is
bucking the annual trend.  “The first few months of the year were always
challenging,” Ziegler, who’s been in the freight-logistics
business for about 12 years, said from his company’s offices in
Racine,  Wisconsin . “Historically, January and February are slow
months. This year, it’s not that way at all. We’ve got a lot
more positive reception to our sales calls in the last few
months than we have in past years.”  The  U.S. economy  added more jobs than forecast in March and
the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to a two-year low of
8.8 percent, an indication that the labor-market recovery is
strengthening, Labor Department figures showed April 1.  Payrolls increased by 216,000 workers in March after a
194,000 gain the prior month. Economists projected a March gain
of 190,000, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. Service providers added 185,000 workers last month, the
most since May 2010.  Higher Food, Fuel  Employment gains may help Americans dealing with higher
food and gasoline prices. The average cost of a gallon of
regular-grade fuel reached $3.66 on April 3, the highest since
September 2008, according to AAA.  The Fed, after its latest policy meeting March 15, pledged
to continue its program of purchasing $600 billion of bonds
before the second half of the year, in order to “promote a
stronger pace of economic recovery.” Fed officials also said
the economy was on “firmer footing” and acknowledged a rise in
commodity prices, signaling deflation risk had diminished and
they were unlikely to expand the bond purchase plan.  The Fed will release minutes of the March meeting today at
2 p.m. in  Washington .  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  