-- 
U.S. Homebuilders’ Credit Default Swaps Climb on KB Home’s Earnings Miss

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-04-05T21:34:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/u-s-homebuilders-credit-default-swaps-climb-on-kb-home-s-earnings-miss.html
The cost to protect the bonds of
U.S. homebuilders surged after  KB Home (KBH)  reported a bigger-than-
expected loss as orders plunged.  Credit-default swaps protecting the debt of the Los
Angeles-based homebuilder, which targets first-time buyers,
jumped 21.2 basis points to 436.9 basis points, according to
data provider CMA.  “This recovery has yet to include significant job growth
and has not spilled over into housing,” Chief Executive Officer
 Jeffrey Mezger  said in an earnings call today. “These headwinds
will not go away, and a sustained broad-based housing recovery
will not occur until we start to experience material job
creation and higher consumer confidence levels.”  U.S. homebuilders are struggling with competition from
lower-priced distressed properties and weak demand as
unemployment hovers close to 9 percent. Labor Department figures
last week showed the jobless rate fell in March to a two-year
low of 8.8 percent, and  consumer confidence  stabilized last
month, according to a separate report.  Sales of new U.S. homes plunged 16.9 percent in February to
a record-low annual pace, the Commerce Department said March 23.
The median price for a new house dropped 8.9 percent from a year
earlier to the lowest in more than seven years.  KB Home said its net loss for the quarter ended Feb. 28
widened to $1.49 a share as net orders plummeted 32 percent.
Analysts predicted a loss of 30 cents a share, the average of 17
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The company has communities in some of the markets hardest
hit by foreclosures, including  Las Vegas , Phoenix and
 California ’s Riverside County.  Lennar, Pulte  Credit-default swaps on Lennar Corp. jumped 7.5 basis
points to 355.9 and those on Pulte Group Inc. climbed 8.8 basis
points to 325, CMA data show. Contracts on Ryland Group Inc.
added 9.6 basis points to 249.5, the data show.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. held close to the lowest level in two weeks.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.4 basis point to a
mid-price of 93.7 basis points as of 4:56 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, ended
yesterday at the lowest since March 18.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  