-- 
TUI Travel Gains on Prospect Main Investor TUI May Raise Stake

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-04-05T09:26:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/tui-travel-gains-on-prospect-main-investor-tui-may-raise-stake.html
Tui Travel Plc (TT/) ,  Europe ’s largest
tour operator, rose the most in a month in  London  trading after
its biggest shareholder said it’s considering an asset sale,
fueling speculation it will use the proceeds to raise its stake.  Tui Travel rose as much as 11.7 cents, or 5.2 percent, to
234.8 pence and traded up 4.3 percent at 232.6 pence as of 10:23
a.m. in London.  TUI AG (TUI1) , owner of a 51 percent stake, rose as
much as 5.4 percent in  Frankfurt .  TUI is currently in talks with potential investors about
the sale of a stake in Hapag-Lloyd, Hanover-based TUI said in an
e-mailed statement today. “We can’t confirm media reports that
this has already come to a sale,” the company said. “TUI
continues its dual track procedure to dispose of its stake.”  Last month TUI, which owns 49.8 percent of Hapag-Lloyd,
agreed to sell 11 percent to the container line’s majority owner
and said it may sell more in an initial public offering. TUI has
said it wants to invest proceeds from the IPO in its tourism
business.  TUI is in advanced talks to sell more shares in Hapag-Lloyd
to a state fund in Oman and Chinese logistics company HNA Group,
a person with knowledge of the matter said yesterday. Reuters
reported today that Onyx Investments took a 15 percent stake in
the container company.  The sale of more Hapag-Lloyd shares could “re-kindle”
talk about purchase of additional Tui Travel shares by TUI, said
Peter Hyde, an analyst at  Liberum Capital  in London, in a note
today.  TUI Travel shares have declined 5.5 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 2.6 billion pounds
($4.2 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  