-- 
UN Rapporteur ‘Shocked’ by Media View of Hungarian Officials

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-04-05T11:15:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/un-rapporteur-shocked-by-media-view-of-hungarian-officials.html
Hungary’s media law, amended after
European Union criticism, is still a concern in part because of
the ruling party’s dominance of the media regulator, according
to the United Nation’s special rapporteur on press freedom.  The appointment of all five members of the Media Council by
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s ruling party, as well as the
length of their mandate at renewable nine-year terms, are
problematic, UN Special Rapporteur Frank La Rue told reporters
in Budapest today. Political influence and the threat of fines
may spawn self-censorship, he said.  Hungary’s media law, which took effect on Jan. 1, has been
criticized by governments and newspapers across Europe, clouding
the country’s six-month EU presidency. The law gives the panel
the power to fine or close media outlets.  “I was a bit shocked, to say it politely, at some of the
positions I heard,” said La Rue, who was invited by the
government to assess the law. “Different government officials
were speaking with full honesty and speaking their mind, but it
does seem to me that there is a framework of control. I think
this is very dangerous.”  The composition of the Media Council can lead to the
“depolitization” of media regulation, Zoltan Kovacs, state
secretary in charge of government communications, said at the
same press conference. While Hungary agrees with the principles
of press freedom, media regulation also needs to reflect “local
perspectives,” he said.  Hungary should diversify the membership of the regulator,
for example, by including representatives of press associations
and opposition parties in their ranks, La Rue said.  Hungary’s Parliament, where Orban’s lawmakers hold a two-
thirds majority, bowed to EU demands last month to limit
regulators’ powers to censor “offensive” reporting, ease
registration requirements and bar discrimination against non-
Hungarian broadcasters.  The amended law still fails to meet press freedom
commitments, Dunja Mijatovic, the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in  Europe ’s representative on freedom of the media,
said in a March 8 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  