-- 
Turkish Stocks, Bonds Climb on Cash Flows After Bernanke Speech

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-04-05T12:32:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/turkish-stocks-bonds-climb-on-cash-flows-after-bernanke-speech.html
Turkish stocks and bonds rallied
after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke ’s comments that
slower commodity price growth would make increases in inflation
“transitory.”  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose for a third day, adding 1
percent to 68,227.88 at 2:49 p.m., its highest intraday level
since Jan. 14. Two-year benchmark debt climbed, sending the
yield down 6 basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 8.71
percent, the lowest level in two weeks.  Bernanke’s comments yesterday that inflation spikes would
be temporary “diluted the apparent hawkishness of his
remarks,” according to a research note from Gareth Berry, a
strategist with UBS AG dated today. Turkey central bank data
showed on March 31 that foreigners raised holdings of Turkish
bonds by $3.7 billion and stocks by $3.9 billion in the month.  “The market gained momentum yesterday,” said Soner Inanc,
head of Turkish equities at City Menkul Degerler AS.
“Bernanke’s statements affected this positively because it
showed cheap money will continue.”  The Fed will act if increases in commodity prices create
more than a “transitory” boost to U.S. inflation, Bernanke
said in response to audience questions after a speech in Stone
Mountain,  Georgia . U.S. policy makers led by Bernanke said after
their last meeting on March 15 that the economy is on a “firmer
footing” and affirmed plans to buy $600 billion of Treasuries
through June. Bernanke hasn’t said what he favors as the next
move for monetary policy after that.  “The markets got the message from Bernanke that the
liquidity will remain abundant,” said Selim Kocaoglu, assistant
manager at Is Asset Management.  The lira weakened 0.1 percent to 1.53325 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  