-- 
HMV Lowers Forecasts, Says Lenders Extend Deadline

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-04-05T15:45:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/hmv-lowers-forecasts-says-lenders-extend-deadline-1-.html
HMV Plc said difficult trading
conditions mean full-year pretax profit before one-time items
will be about 30 million pounds ($48 million), the third time
it’s lowered forecasts this year.  The retailer of books, music and DVDs also said its lenders
agreed to move the 12-month banking-covenant measurement period
to end on July 2 instead of April 30, according to a statement
on the Regulatory News Service today. The lowest of 13 analysts’
estimates for full-year pretax profit was 30.7 million pounds,
according to Bloomberg data.  HMV’s sales have slumped as the company considers selling
its Waterstone’s bookstore chain and Canadian outlets to meet
the lending agreements. It’s closing 60 U.K. outlets to cope
with competition from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and supermarkets, combined
with consumer worries about government budget cuts.  “The speed of deterioration in profitability of this
business confirms that management’s strategy is not arresting
the very real structural pressures on the core retail business
from on line,” wrote  Kate Calvert , an analyst with  Seymour
Pierce  who has a “sell” recommendation. “More radical action
is needed, we believe, in terms of store closures or breaking up
the business.”  HMV fell 3 pence, or 20 percent, to 12.25 pence in London.
The shares have fallen 62 percent this year, giving the company
a market value of 51.9 million pounds.  “The group’s banking facilities remain fully available,
the group’s lenders continue to be supportive and the group is
maintaining a regular and constructive dialogue with them,” the
Maidenhead, England-based company said in the statement.  As recently as March 1, HMV said it expected full-year
pretax profit would be “moderately below” the median estimate
by analysts of 45 million pounds. It previously changed its
forecasts in January following a weak Christmas season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in  London  at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  