-- 
Vale Names Former Canada Head Ferreira CEO After Brazil Government Concern

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-04-05T20:48:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/vale-names-ferreira-ceo-as-agnelli-leaves-after-criticism.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s second-largest
miner, named the former head of its nickel unit, Murilo Pinto de Oliveira Ferreira, as chief executive officer after  Brazil ’s
government criticized management over the past two years.  Ferreira, 58, president of Vale’s Canadian business until
leaving in 2008, will take over May 22 after current CEO Roger Agnelli’s mandate expires, Vale said late yesterday in a
regulatory filing. Brazil’s government, which holds direct and
indirect stakes in Vale, repeatedly criticized the company in
recent years for not spending more on domestic steel and
fertilizer output to generate jobs.  Vale has underperformed Brazil’s Bovespa index and  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company by market
value, since early January amid concern the government may seek
to play a bigger role in management decisions. Vale shares,
which are trading at a discount of as much as 20 percent to its
peers, should rebound as concern eases, said Rafael Weber, an
equity analyst at Geracao Futuro Corretora.  “His name is welcome,” Weber said today in a telephone
interview from  Porto Alegre , Brazil. “We saw very political
names being mentioned, as well as executives from other
industries, but we finally got to an executive with mining and
international experience who was even involved in Vale’s biggest
acquisition.”  Vale Shares  Vale has declined 5.1 percent since Jan. 7, when the
company denied that the Valepar SA group of controlling
shareholders was discussing a CEO change. That compares with an
11 percent jump for BHP and a 0.3 percent drop for the Bovespa.
Vale rose 0.1 percent to close at 48.30 reais in Sao Paulo
trading at 4:08 p.m. New York time.  Rio de Janeiro-based Vale said March 31 that the group was
hiring international recruiters to help pick three possible
candidates to replace Agnelli, 51. Ferreira’s appointment,
following a nomination by Valepar, is pending board approval.  Ferreira joined Vale in 1998 as a director for its aluminum
businesses. After holding several management positions he left a
decade later, when he was head of Vale’s Canadian unit and an
executive director for nickel and base-metals sales, according
to the company. He was trained in business administration at Sao
Paulo-based  Fundacao Getulio Vargas  and has more than 30 years’
mining-industry experience, Vale said.  ‘Internal Candidate’  “Murilo can be considered an internal candidate, bringing
the least disruption to Vale, and can ease the concerns of a
higher government intervention,” Felipe Hirai, a Sao Paulo-
based analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a note
to clients. “We hope the assault on Vale, as we saw over the
last few weeks, eases with his nomination.”  Over the past six months, Brazilian newspapers reported
that the government was pushing Vale shareholders to name a new
CEO.  Valor Economico  said March 24 that controlling shareholders
would choose Tito Botelho Martins, head of the company’s base-
metals unit, without saying where it got the information.  Under Agnelli, the former state-owned company became the
world’s second-largest miner by market value, after BHP. Vale,
valued at about 278 billion reais ($172 billion), has risen more
than 10-fold in Sao Paulo trading since July 11, 2001, the day
before Agnelli was named CEO. That’s more than twice the gain in
the Bovespa index. BHP rose sevenfold during the period, while
Rio Tinto Plc, the third-largest mining company, advanced about
fourfold.  Canada’s Inco  A former banker at Brazil’s  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , Agnelli
oversaw more than $84 billion in investments and acquisitions at
Vale between 2002 and 2010, including the purchase of Canadian
nickel miner Inco Ltd. in January 2007 for C$19.4 billion ($20
billion). Vale sold units and assets amounting to $3.95 billion
over the period, according to the company’s website.  During the global recession two years ago, Vale fired 1,300
employees and said 5,500 more would be put on paid leave. The
company pared investments by about half to $9 billion, from an
announced $14.2 billion, a decision criticized by then-President
Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, who said it had “no reason” to cut
spending as it had “lots of cash” to help the economy grow.  Fertilizer, Steel  Agnelli also faced government criticism for buying ships in
 China  when Brazil was setting up its own shipyards. The former
president urged Vale to spend more on fertilizers and, between
April and September 2009, asked the company to build steelworks
at least half a dozen times.  Lula’s successor,  Dilma Rousseff , objected to Vale’s focus
on selling raw materials abroad when she was Lula’s cabinet
chief, saying the company should be subject to government
“controls.”  More recently, Energy and Mining Minister Edison Lobao said
Vale was interested in becoming a partner of the Belo Monte dam
project, according to local newspapers. Vale said March 25 that
it was still assessing the venture and hadn’t made a decision.  The company reacted to the government’s demands by boosting
some investments in its steel and fertilizer businesses. Vale
opened a joint steel venture in Rio de Janeiro state with
ThyssenKrupp AG in June and will start developing two new steel
projects later this year. The company also spent $5.8 billion in
2010 buying fertilizer assets as part of a plan to almost triple
potash and phosphate rock output by 2015.  Valepar Shareholders  Previ and Funcef, the pension funds of state-run banks
Banco do Brasil SA and Caixa Economica Federal, hold 49 percent
of Valepar along with Petros, the retirement fund for
government-controlled oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA.  Other Valepar shareholders include Bradespar SA, the
holding company of Bradesco, Mitsui & Co. and BNDESPAR, a
subsidiary of the Brazilian state-owned  development bank .  In addition to the BNDES stake and the ruling Workers
Party’s ties to the pension funds’ management, the government
owns 12 so-called golden shares in Vale that give it veto over
decisions including the location of the company’s headquarters.  The golden shares stem from the 1997 privatization of Vale,
founded by Brazilian dictator Getulio Vargas in 1942 to supply
steelmaker Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA as part of a drive to
industrialize the country.  Vale posted profit of $17.3 billion last year, which it
said was the most ever for a mining company. It plans to invest
a record $24 billion this year, about 64 percent of it in
Brazil, as it seeks to boost iron-ore production to 522 million
metric tons by 2015. The company budgeted 73 percent of its $11
billion investment in 2008 to Brazil, regulatory filings show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  