-- 
Van Rompuy Says EU Has ‘Every Chance’ to Overcome Debt Crisis

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-04-05T08:52:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/van-rompuy-says-eu-has-every-chance-to-overcome-debt-crisis.html
European Union President Herman  Van Rompuy  comments on the measures that EU leaders approved on
March 24-25 in a bid to soothe investors’ concerns about a
possible debt default in the euro area and on the international
campaign against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Van Rompuy spoke to the European Parliament today in
Strasbourg,  France . Last month’s economic decisions included
creating a permanent debt-crisis mechanism in 2013, toughening
enforcement of EU limits on budget deficits and aligning
national policies in such areas as wages, pensions and taxes.  On the debt-crisis steps:  “We took forward a comprehensive package of measures.”  “Of course, approving measures and procedures to deal with
the crisis does not in itself take you immediately out of the
crisis. This will require perseverance and sustained effort.”  “We are getting new rules, new instruments and more
ambitious policies.”  “The political will has been unflinching, our sense of
direction is clear and significant results are there.”  “Of course, all our problems are not over. They are the
result of past mistakes and a lack of appropriate instruments
both at the European and at the national level. But we now have
every chance of dealing with them and not repeating them.”  On the international military intervention in  Libya :  “A massive bloodbath has been avoided. Thousands of lives
have been saved. This is the most important result.”  “Qaddafi must go and we want a political transition led by
the Libyans themselves and based on a broad-based political
dialogue.  “We stand ready to help a new Libya both economically and
in building its new institutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  