-- 
VCU Basketball Coach Shaka Smart Gets 8-Year Deal After Run to Final Four

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-05T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/vcu-basketball-coach-shaka-smart-gets-8-year-deal-after-run-to-final-four.html
Shaka Smart parlayed  Virginia
Commonwealth University ’s Final Four run into a new eight-year
contract that may almost quadruple his coaching pay.  Smart, 33, has a 55-21 record in two seasons at Richmond,
Virginia-based VCU and was considered a candidate for schools
from power conferences with coaching vacancies.  Smart had a base salary of $325,000 this season and will
make $1.2 million annually under his new deal, the Richmond
Times-Dispatch  reported , citing an unidentified person familiar
with the negotiations. The school said financial terms will be
disclosed when the contract is completed.  “Coach Smart’s contributions to the university are
unquantifiable,” VCU President Michael Rao said yesterday in a
 statement  on the school’s website. “Smart’s leadership has
forever raised awareness of VCU as the major public research
university that it is.”  Under Smart -- one of the 10 youngest coaches at college
basketball’s highest level -- VCU this season became just the
third No. 11 regional seed to reach the semifinals of the
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.  The Rams’ postseason run featured upsets of schools from
the Pacific 10, Big East, Big Ten, Atlantic Coast and Big 12
conferences. The team lost to Butler in the national semifinals.  It was the first time that VCU, which has an enrollment of
32,000, won more than one game at the NCAA tournament.  Faith in Program  Smart, who previously was an assistant to University of
 Florida  coach Billy Donovan, said he’s grateful for the belief
that Rao and VCU Athletic Director Norwood Teague have shown in
the basketball program.  “Their support, in addition to the bright future that our
student-athletes possess, make VCU a very special place for me
to be the head basketball coach,” Smart said. “I’m very
excited about the opportunities that lie ahead for both our
program and our university.”  Smart played point guard at Kenyon College in Gambier,
 Ohio , from 1995-99 and remains the school’s career leader in
assists. In addition to Florida, he was an assistant coach at
Clemson, Akron and California University of Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  