-- 
Vedanta's Deadline to Buy Cairn Energy India Unit Extended After Referral

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-04-07T10:51:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/vedanta-wins-regulatory-approval-to-buy-part-of-cairn-india-in-open-offer.html
Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  and  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED)  extended the deadline for a $9.6 billion deal to
acquire the U.K. explorer’s Indian unit after the South Asian
nation’s cabinet referred the proposal to a panel of ministers.  The two London-listed companies pushed the deadline to May
20 from April 15 to give more time for Vedanta to buy a majority
stake in Cairn India Ltd., which operates the nation’s biggest
inland oilfield. The panel headed by Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee will study the transaction and a dispute over royalty
payments, Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy told reporters late
yesterday.  Vedanta, a copper and aluminum company with no experience
in producing oil or natural gas, has waited almost eight months
to buy as much as 60 percent of  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR)  The cabinet
decision was announced after  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) , a unit of Vedanta,
said it would start a 20-day open offer for Cairn India shares
on April 11.  “It suggests we’re not going to get a decision in the
short term,” said  Richard Rose , an analyst at Oriel Securities
Ltd. in London. “We still expect it to be approved. It’s just
another delay, I wouldn’t read anything positive or negative
into it.”  Cairn India fell 1.9 percent to 343.95 rupees in Mumbai
trading to the lowest level since March 16. Sesa Goa dropped 3.1
percent to 315.80 rupees, while the benchmark Sensitive Index
fell 0.1 percent. Cairn Energy declined 2 percent to 447.3 pence
at 11:30 a.m. in  London  trading and Vedanta lost 3.2 percent to
2,418 pence.  Successful Completion  “Cairn and Vedanta have extended the long stop date in the
sale agreement, by which all conditions must be completed or
waived (where permitted), to May 20, 2011, in order to
accommodate the completion of the open offer,” Cairn Energy
said in a statement today to the London Stock Exchange.  India’s stock market regulator, the  Securities and Exchange
Board of India , asked for put and call options by Cairn Energy
and Vedanta to be removed from the sale agreement because they
don’t comply with some rules, according to the statement.
Vedanta’s first right to buy Cairn India shares from Cairn
Energy in the future has also been scrapped.  Cairn Energy and Vedanta earlier agreed to ensure the
mining company retains a majority stake in  Cairn India  by
exercising put and call options for six-month periods starting
July 2012 and July 2013, according to an Aug. 16 statement.  Royalty Payments  Vedanta’s acquisition proposal was referred to the group of
ministers to consider the view of state-run Oil & Natural Gas
Corp., Cairn India’s partner in the biggest oilfield in
Rajasthan state, that the royalty payments should be added to
the project cost, which the partners are allowed to recover from
sales. ONGC is liable to pay royalties on all the crude oil from
the area even though it owns a 30 percent stake.  “My own ministry, petroleum and natural gas, took a
categorical stand that royalty should be cost recoverable,”
Reddy said. “I presented two options. One was to give
conditional clearance, the other was to give clearance while
leaving the legal recourse open to both the parties. A decision
would be taken between these two options.”  Vedanta declined to comment on the decision to refer the
acquisition plan to the panel of ministers.  ONGC may make 140 billion rupees ($3.2 billion) in royalty
payments on Cairn  India ’s behalf over the life of the field,
according to the New Delhi-based company.  National Interests  “We have not said no,” Minister Reddy said yesterday.
“But we cannot be expected to give clearance in a tight time
frame. We are expected to take care of the interests of the
country and ONGC.”  Vedanta’s proposed two-part deal involves the open offer
for as much as a 20 percent stake and the purchase of shares
from Cairn Energy.  Sesa is offering Cairn India’s minority investors 355
rupees a share and has an option to increase the price by April
19, according to a newspaper advertisement yesterday. The offer
is scheduled to close on April 30.  Vedanta has offered Cairn Energy, which currently owns 62.1
percent of Cairn India, 405 rupees a share, including a non-
compete fee of 50 rupees a share, according to a statement to
the Bombay Stock Exchange on Aug. 18.  The final number of shares to be sold by Cairn Energy to
Vedanta will depend on the result of the open offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  