-- 
Ex-News of the World Journalist Arrested in Hacking Case

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-04-05T18:41:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/vodafone-will-give-sienna-miller-research-in-phone-hacking-case.html
A former news editor at  Rupert Murdoch ’s News of the World newspaper was one of two men
arrested by London police as part of an expanded probe into
phone hacking.  Ian Edmondson, who was fired by the paper in January,
voluntarily submitted to questions at a police station today,
his lawyer, Eddie Parladorio, said in an e-mail. The second man
arrested was Neville Thurlbeck, the News of the World’s chief
reporter, a person familiar with the situation said.  “At last we see that the police are taking this
seriously,” said Mark Lewis, a lawyer representing people who
claim their voice mails were hacked by the paper. “The latest
statement of cooperation from News of the World is a far cry
from their editorial about one ‘rogue reporter.’ The enquiries
now have to proceed so that we can get to the bottom of this.”  News of the World, owned by Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , has been
dogged by allegations reporters listened to private voice-mail
messages for stories since a former editor and a private
investigator were sent to jail in 2007 for hacking into members
of the royal household’s mobile phones. Former News of the World
Editor  Andy Coulson  resigned as Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
head of communications in January over claims the practice took
place while he was at the paper.  Third Investigation  In the same month police started their third probe into
phone hacking, saying News International, News of the World’s
parent company, turned over “significant new information.”
Keir Starmer, the U.K.’s head prosecutor told Parliament today
that legal advice from his department didn’t limit the scope of
the first police investigation.  The newspaper is facing more than a dozen lawsuits filed by
celebrities, including actress Sienna Miller, alleging the
newspaper hacked into mobile-phone voice mails. Miller, in her
lawsuit, alleged that Edmondson approved a contract with an
investigator to eavesdrop on personal messages between her, her
friends and business associates.  Edmondson hasn’t been charged, Parladorio said. Thurlbeck
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Police have
searched Edmondson and Thurlbeck’s homes, the Guardian Newspaper
reported.  Glenn Mulcaire , the private investigator that worked for
the paper, in 2006 admitted five other counts of phone hacking
relating to soccer executive Gordon Taylor, soccer agent Sky
Andrew, publicist Max Clifford, model Elle Macpherson, soccer
player  Sol Campbell  and lawmaker  Simon Hughes .  Terminated  “In January, News International voluntarily approached the
Met Police and provided information that led to the opening of
the current police investigation,” the News of the World said
in an e-mailed statement today. “News International terminated
the employment of the assistant editor” at that time.  “News International has consistently reiterated that it
will not tolerate wrong-doing and is committed to acting on
evidence,” the statement said. “We continue to cooperate.”  The police said today they had arrested two men on
suspicion of unlawfully intercepting mobile-phone voice-mail
messages. The statement didn’t identify the men.  “It’s plan B now for the News of the World because their
rogue reporter defense, which has perhaps been unsustainable to
those in the know for six months, now is unsustainable,” said
Duncan Lamont, a media lawyer at Charles Russell in  London .
“Clearly they must have some very real evidence.”  Separately, Miller today won a court order allowing
Vodafone Group Plc to hand over research it did for police
during the first probe into phone hacking at the newspaper.
Vodafone, which didn’t send a lawyer to the hearing, didn’t
oppose the request.  Ben Jackson, who filed a lawsuit seeking information from
police on phone hacking records last month with actor Jude Law,
filed a complaint against Newsgroup Newspapers and Mulcaire
yesterday, according to court records. ICAP Plc Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Spencer  has also asked police to look into
whether his phone was hacked, Sky News reported, without saying
how it obtained the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 