-- 
Vodafone Told to Pay Penalty Relating to Dispute Over Indian Tax Payment

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-04-05T10:14:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/vodafone-files-petition-in-india-s-top-court-against-tax-penalty.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone company, may need to pay a penalty fine as
part of an Indian tax case related to its acquisition of
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s local unit in 2007.  Vodafone filed a petition in the Supreme Court in  New Delhi 
seeking protection, the Newbury, England-based company said
today in an e-mailed statement. Indian tax authorities have
started penalty proceedings against the company, with the fine
potentially worth as much as 100 percent of any tax due.  India is seeking 112 billion rupees ($2.5 billion) on
Vodafone’s $11 billion purchase of the Hutchison unit. Vodafone
was ordered to set aside 25 billion rupees as a deposit, while
it challenges a tax bill for the country’s largest cross-border
deal.  “Seeking penalties on a ‘test case’ involving a major
infrastructure investor highlights the unpredictable nature of
 India ’s taxation policy,” Vodafone said today. “This move is
only likely to raise further concerns amongst potential
investors in India.”  R.N. Dash, director general for international taxation at
the Central Board of Direct Taxes in New Delhi, confirmed today
that his office sent a penalty notice. He declined to comment
further.  Vodafone said it doesn’t owe the Indian government taxes
because the transaction was conducted offshore, with its Dutch
subsidiary, Vodafone International Holdings BV, acquiring CGP
Ltd., a Cayman Islands holding company controlled by Hong Kong-
based Hutchison.  Vodafone said last month it will buy out partner Essar
Group in its Indian joint venture, the country’s third-largest
operator, for $5 billion, taking its holding to 75 percent.  Vodafone is increasing its stake in the venture in one of
its fastest growing markets. India was one of the “jewels” in
the three months through December, Chief Executive Officer
Vittorio Colao said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  