-- 
Wells Fargo Agrees to Pay $11.2 Million in SEC Settlement Over CDO Sales

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-05T20:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/wells-fargo-agrees-to-pay-11-2-million-in-sec-settlement-over-cdo-sales.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, agreed to pay $11.2 million to settle regulatory
claims that Wachovia Capital Markets improperly sold two
collateralized debt obligations tied to home mortgages.  The Wachovia unit, acquired by Wells Fargo in the wake of
the 2008 credit crisis, charged “undisclosed excessive
markups” while selling stakes in a CDO to the Zuni Indian tribe
and an individual investor as housing markets began collapsing,
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said today in a
statement. Wachovia also falsely claimed it acquired assets for
a CDO “on an arm’s-length basis,” the SEC said.  “Wachovia caused significant losses to the Zuni Indians
and other investors by violating basic investor-protection rules
-- don’t charge secret excessive markups, and don’t use stale
prices,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in the
statement.  Regulators are investigating banks’ sales of CDOs -- pools
of assets packaged into new securities -- after bundles of
subprime mortgages disguised as highly rated assets helped spark
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. As part
of that sweep, the SEC is looking at CDO deals involving banks
such as JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG
and Citigroup Inc., according to people familiar with the
matter. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. agreed last year to pay $550
million to settle improper-sales claims.  Wells Fargo agreed to resolve the SEC claims, related to
alleged violations in 2006 and 2007, without admitting or
denying wrongdoing.  ‘Early Days’  “The settlement relates to actions taken by Wachovia in
2007 in the early days of the credit crisis,”  Mary Eshet , a
Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
issues presented here were complex, and Wells Fargo is pleased
to have resolved this matter.”  Wachovia charged the Zuni Indian tribe and the unidentified
individual investor more than 70 percent above the market price
when it sold them an investment in Wachovia’s $1.5 billion Grand
Avenue II CDO in 2007, the SEC said. By the end of that year,
the securities linked to the product had been downgraded and the
transaction went into default as of February 2008.  Evergreen Investments  In 2009, Wachovia’s Evergreen Investments unit agreed to
pay $40 million to settle SEC claims that it didn’t properly
disclose changes in value of mortgage-backed securities. As a
result, Evergreen overstated the performance of one fund by as
much as 17 percent from February 2007 through its closing in
June 2008, the SEC said.  Institutional Financial Market Inc.’s Cohen & Company
Securities LLC unit agreed to pay $899,000 in restitution and a
$50,000 fine last year to resolve Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority claims of excessive markups in three sets of CDO sales
in 2007 and 2008, according to the company’s annual report.  In a second claim today, the SEC said Wachovia misled
investors about a $1.3 billion CDO called Longshore 3. Wachovia
said it acquired assets “at fair market prices” even though
about $250 million worth of mortgage-backed securities had been
transferred at about $4.6 million above market value, according
to the SEC’s order. The assets were transferred at “stale”
prices to avoid losses, the SEC said.  Wachovia Capital Markets, which was renamed Wells Fargo
Securities after the takeover by the San Francisco-based bank,
will pay more than $11 million in penalties and disgorgement to
the SEC, which will return much of the money to the investors,
the agency said.  Near Bankruptcy  Wachovia came within 24 hours of declaring bankruptcy in
September 2008 after defaults on home mortgages soared and
depositors rushed to withdraw funds. Analysts traced the bank’s
slide to its 2006 takeover of Golden West Financial Corp., a
California provider of adjustable-rate mortgages that allowed
borrowers to skip payments and add them to the loan balance.  Wachovia agreed to sell itself to New York-based Citigroup
Inc. on Sept. 29, 2008, to avert a collapse. Less than a week
later, Wachovia accepted a higher bid from San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo in a deal that created the fourth-largest  U.S. bank .
Wachovia was based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 