-- 
Wen's Inflation ‘Tiger’ May Find Cage Door Closing as PBOC Increases Rates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-06T03:52:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/wen-s-inflation-tiger-may-find-cage-door-closing-as-pboc-increases-rates.html
China ’s fourth interest-rate
increase in less than six months signaled the government’s
determination to “front-load” monetary tightening in an effort
to defuse overheating risks.  The People’s Bank of China yesterday boosted its benchmark
one-year lending rate by a quarter point to 6.31 percent, making
its announcement at the end of a three-day holiday. The timing
came as a surprise to banks from Credit Suisse AG to Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch that had said the central bank may pause
in increases amid rising risks to global growth.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government acted ahead of a report
forecast to show consumer prices climbed 5.2 percent last month
from a year before, the fastest pace since 2008. Inflation may
drop “sharply” in the second half of the year on moderating
economic growth, smaller increases in food costs and favorable
year-earlier bases for comparison, economist  Mark Williams  said.  “The pressure to continue raising rates is falling,” said
Williams, who previously advised the U.K. Treasury on China and
is now at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “The timing of this
move was a small surprise given that the tone of policy
statements in recent weeks had tended to be a bit more dovish.”  Crude oil, copper and global stocks dipped yesterday as the
announcement stoked concern that tightening will restrain demand
in the fastest-growing major economy.  Chinese Stocks  The MSCI Asia Pacific index of stocks retreated 0.4 percent
as of 11:21 a.m. Hong Kong time today amid speculation that a
withdrawal of U.S. stimulus may also curb global growth. In
China, investors indicated little concern, with the Shanghai
Composite Index up 0.7 percent.  Policy makers have given mixed signals on their
preparedness for a rate move. PBOC Deputy Governor Yi Gang said
March 23 that  interest rates  were at a “comfortable” level and
he was “not too worried” by inflation because price increases
will slow in the second half of the year.  By contrast, Premier Wen used stronger language at a
meeting of lawmakers in Beijing last month, saying inflation was
a “tiger” that once freed can be difficult to get back in its
cage. He also said that “exorbitant” home-price increases in
some cities were a top public concern and rising costs may
undermine social stability.  Inflation Forecast  Consumer prices jumped 4.9 percent in February from a year
earlier, topping the government’s full-year target of 4 percent.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of nine
economists is for March inflation of 5.2 percent. The statistics
bureau will release the number on April 15, according to a
preliminary schedule.  While faster currency gains could limit inflation by
reducing the cost of imports,  Qu Hongbin , chief economist for
China at HSBC Holdings Plc, said yesterday that a policy of
“gradual” appreciation likely remains intact. The Chinese
currency, seen by the U.S. as “substantially undervalued,”
gained 4 percent against the dollar in the past year and touched
6.5449 today, the strongest level since 1993.  Emerging markets have led global rate increases, while the
largest developed nations have yet to start. The  European
Central Bank  may begin tomorrow, with the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey for a quarter point move to 1.25 percent.
The  Federal Reserve  has yet to end its policy pledge of keeping
borrowing costs near zero for an “extended period.”  ‘Bigger Lesson’  “China will be the first central bank to get to the point
where they can ease, but that’s not yet,” said Kit Juckes, head
of foreign-exchange research in  London  at Societe Generale SA.
“The bigger lesson is for the rest of the region -- get on with
tightening,” he said, recommending investors buy  South Korea ’s
won and  Singapore ’s dollar.  Vietnam ,  Taiwan ,  India , South Korea and Thailand all
boosted benchmarks in March or April and Chinese officials have
drained cash from their economy this year by raising bank
reserve requirements.  In China, the key lending rate will rise to 6.56 percent by
year-end, with the deposit rate climbing to 3.5 percent,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists on March 22. That suggests another 0.25 percentage
point increase in each.  Besides monetary tools, the government has deployed
subsidies, state food reserves and the threat of price controls
to counter inflation. Unilever NV, the world’s second-largest
consumer-goods maker, has postponed planned price increases at
the government’s request.  Asset Bubbles  The benchmark one-year deposit rate has lagged behind the
pace of consumer-price gains, an incentive for households to
switch savings to asset markets, increasing the risk of bubbles
in the real-estate market.  Tao Dong, chief economist for non-Japan  Asia  at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong, sees policy makers failing to
contain inflation without a sustained series of further
increases in borrowing costs.  The central bank “may have a brief period of policy pause,
but such a pause, if any, would be a short-lived one,” Tao
wrote in a note today. He predicted the PBOC will boost the one-
year lending rate by 1.35 percentage points, to 7.66 percent,
and the one-year deposit rate by 1.50 points to 4.75 percent
this year.  Meantime, Chinese officials may need to be on guard against
increased inflows of “hot money,” or speculative capital, as
yesterday’s move widens the differential with rates in developed
economies. The nation may face “relatively large” risks from
cross-border capital flows, according to Deng Xianhong, deputy
director of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange.  ‘Moderate Slowdown’  Increasing rates may signal the government’s confidence in
the strength of an economy forecast by the  World Bank  to expand
9 percent this year.  A purchasing managers’ index released
April 1 indicated that the world’s second-biggest economy is
“growing smoothly, with a very moderate slowdown,” Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch economist Lu Ting said that day.  The  Asian Development Bank  sees little risk of a hard
landing for the Chinese economy, country director Paul J.
Heytens said at a briefing in Beijing today.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts see 9.4 percent economic
growth this year, with “worries about overheating” receding as
policy tightening is “front-loaded” in the first half of 2011.  --Marco Lui in  Hong Kong , Zheng Lifei in Beijing. With
assistance from  Chris Anstey , Ed Lococo,  Jay Wang  and Sandy Hendry. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Chris Anstey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lifei Zheng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  