-- 
Wright Medical CEO Resigns After Doctor Kickback Settlement

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-04-05T20:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/wright-medical-chief-gary-henley-resigns-after-doctor-kickback-settlement.html
Wright Medical Group Inc. (WMGI) , the
artificial-joint maker that last year settled U.S. accusations
it paid doctors to use its products, fell the most in more than
two years after its chief executive officer resigned.  Wright fell $2.08, or 12 percent, to $15.05 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, for its biggest one-day
decline since March 2, 2009. The shares have fallen 15 percent
in the past 12 months.  Gary D. Henley, CEO since 2006, resigned yesterday before a
board meeting called to discuss management’s oversight of the
company’s “ongoing compliance program,” Arlington, Tennessee-
based Wright said in a statement today. David D. Stevens, the
board chairman, has been appointed interim CEO until a
replacement can be found, the company said.  Wright said Sept. 30 that it would pay $7.9 million to
resolve criminal and civil investigations into whether it paid
kickbacks to induce doctors to use its hip and knee devices.
Prosecutors in  Newark ,  New Jersey , agreed to drop the case in 12
months if a monitor agrees that Wright has reformed the way it
hires consultants.  “Wright Medical is committed to maintaining the highest
standards of ethical conduct and to complying strictly with the
laws and regulations that govern our business practices,”
Stevens said in the statement. “These leadership changes
underscore that Wright Medical is committed to compliance at all
levels of the organization and to exemplary corporate
citizenship.”  The company said it had also fired Frank S. Bono, Wright’s
senior vice-president and chief technology officer, “for
failing to exhibit appropriate regard for the company’s ongoing
compliance program.” Henley has also resigned his position on
the board of directors.  A spokesman, Nicholas Lamplough, declined to discuss the
moves further in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  