-- 
Xstrata Says China Copper Demand to Recover, Reducing Stocks

-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 
2011-04-05T16:36:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/xstrata-says-china-s-copper-demand-to-recover-reducing-stocks.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)  said a build-up in
copper stocks, responsible for the metal’s worst first quarter
in a decade, will end in “the next couple of months” as buyers
return to the marketplace.  Chinese demand may recover to grow 6 percent this year,
Charlie Sartain, who runs the Zug, Switzerland-based company’s
copper business, said in an interview in Santiago yesterday.
Demand is also recovering in  Europe  and the U.S., he said.  Copper prices jumped about 30 percent last year as mining
companies struggled to meet rising demand. The metal fell 1.8
percent in the first quarter of this year, the biggest decline
for the period since 2001, as Chinese buyers consumed existing
stockpiles and the country boosted scrap imports.  “Both of those trends I think will have an endpoint within
the next couple of months,” Sartain said. “Then we’ll see
demand picking up again.”  Copper demand in the U.S. may grow 6 percent this year
while mine supply will lag behind demand again this year as
suppliers face disruptions, Sartain said.  The Collahuasi mine in northern  Chile  was affected by
heavier-than-normal rainfall in the first quarter, John MacKenzie, the head of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s copper business said
in an April 1 interview. Anglo and Xstrata each own 44 percent
of Collahuasi.  The rain interruptions extended to Teck Resources Ltd.’s
Quebrada Blanca mine in northern Chile, spokeswoman Claudia
Onetto said yesterday. Xstrata’s Tintaya mine in neighboring
 Peru  was also affected, Sartain said.  Supply Shortfalls  There are “consistently shortfalls” in the copper
industry, mainly because of declining ore quality in aging mines
in countries such as Chile, Sartain said. “What you see this
year is an ongoing continuation of that.”  While Anglo American is aware of stockpiling of the metal,
“we don’t see a flood of that coming back onto the market,”
MacKenzie said at the same conference. There is evidence of
acceleration in copper demand in recent weeks, he said.  Global stocks remain at low levels and there is consensus
about the metal’s “solid market fundamentals,”  Diego Hernandez , chief executive officer of Codelco, said at the
event.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., the world’s largest
publicly traded copper producer, is “very confident” about
long-term demand from  China , Chief Executive Officer Richard Adkerson said today in an interview.  Copper for three-month delivery erased a drop of as much as
0.7 percent to rise 0.5 percent to $9,374 a ton on the London
Metal Exchange at 10:39 a.m.  New York  time. Copper for May
delivery rose 0.4 percent to $427.05 a pound in New York.  World’s Largest  Xstrata will become the world’s largest producer of copper
concentrate by 2014 when its Las Bambas mine in Peru starts
production, Sartain said.  The company plans to increase production to 1.5 million
metric tons of copper by the end of 2014. This year the company
probably will produce a little more than last year’s 913,500
tons, Sartain said. Xstrata fell 1.3 percent to 1,491.5 pence in
London trading at 11:11 a.m. New York time.  Xstrata’s Agua Rica and El Pachon projects in  Argentina 
could deliver 600,000 metric tons of copper by 2016 through an
investment of more than $6 billion, Sartain said.  Copper concentrate is an intermediate product obtained from
processing ore that is sold to smelters.  Development of the Antapaccay and Las Bambas projects in
Peru are on schedule, Sartain said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts in  Buenos Aires  at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  