-- 
S&P 500 Erases Gain, Bonds Drop on Concern Fed to Remove Stimulus Measures

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-04-05T20:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/yen-weakens-treasuries-fall-on-concern-growth-may-slow-as-rates-increase.html
U.S. stocks erased gains, preventing
a third straight advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, and
Treasuries dropped amid concern the  Federal Reserve  will begin
removing stimulus measures. Oil fell from a 30-month high, while
gold climbed to a record. Portugal’s bonds slid.  The  S&P 500  slipped less than 0.1 percent to 1,332.63 at 4
p.m. in New York after earlier climbing as much as 0.4 percent
as chipmakers rallied following Texas Instrument Inc.’s takeover
bid for  National Semiconductor Corp. (NSM)  The 10-year Treasury note’s
yield climbed six basis points to 3.49 percent. Oil slipped 13
cents to $108.34 amid concern U.S. and Chinese demand will slow.
Portugal’s 10-year note yield added 18 basis points to 8.77
percent. Gold futures rose 1.4 percent to $1,452.50 an ounce.  U.S. stocks began reversing an earlier advance as minutes
from the Federal Reserve’s policy meeting last month showed
central bankers differed over whether to begin removing record
stimulus this year as they debated the path of monetary policy
following the completion of their $600 billion bond-purchase
program. Boeing Co. helped lead the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
down from an almost three-year high amid concern inspectors will
find more problems with its 737 jets.  “Investors are fearful that if they don’t get another round
of quantitative easing, the market doesn’t get another shot in
the arm,” said Kevin Caron, a market strategist in  Florham Park ,
 New Jersey , at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which has about $110
billion in client assets. “I’m not convinced. We have solid
economic figures and corporate earnings. The path of least
resistance for the market would be higher.”  National Semi Takeover  National Semiconductor surged 71 percent for the biggest
gain in the S&P 500 after Texas Instruments bid $6.5 billion for
the maker of analog chips, while Abercrombie & Fitch Co. rallied
11 percent after its earnings forecast topped estimates. Some
$646.2 billion in takeovers have been announced globally so far
this year, 27 percent more than during the same period last
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “People who have been cautious about expanding their
business and conserving cash for the last few years are feeling
more comfortable with taking additional risks,” said Peter Tuz,
president of Chase Investment Counsel in Charlottesville,
 Virginia , which manages $1.5 billion. “It shows that there is
some comfort now with the way where things are headed.”  The Nasdaq-100 slipped 0.3 percent. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.
said  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPhone, will have its
weighting in the Nasdaq-100 cut to 12.3 percent from 20.5
percent from May 2. Apple shares slipped 0.7 percent.  737 Concerns  Boeing lost 1 percent after saying metal-fatigue
inspections must be stepped up on older 737s, the world’s most
widely flown jet, after cracks developed earlier than expected
on a Southwest Airlines Co. plane that split open last week.  Since the Fed’s March meeting, the labor market and
inflation readings have picked up while growth in service
industries slowed. Some regional Fed presidents who were
skeptical of the monetary stimulus have talked about the need to
tighten credit. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has yet to indicate his
preference for the Fed’s next move after finishing bond buying.  “A few participants indicated that economic conditions
might warrant a move toward less-accommodative monetary policy
this year; a few others noted that exceptional policy
accommodation could be appropriate beyond 2011,” the  Federal
Open Market Committee  said in minutes of its March 15 meeting.
“Almost all” Fed officials also saw no need to “taper”
Treasury buying, jettisoning their prior strategy of reducing
the pace of purchases while stretching out their duration.  The yield on the 2-year U.S. Treasury note rose six basis
points to 0.82 percent and the 5-year note yield jumped 8 basis
points to 2.27 percent.  European Stocks  Three stocks declined for every two that gained in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, even as the gauge rose 0.2 percent.
 Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average retreated 1.1 percent as Tokyo
Electric Power Co. dumped radioactive water from its crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant into the sea. Markets in  China ,
 Hong Kong  and Taiwan were closed for a holiday.  The MSCI Emerging Europe, Middle East and Africa Index
slipped 0.1 percent after the People’s Bank of China raised its
one-year lending and deposit rates by 25 basis points, effective
tomorrow, its fourth increase since the global financial crisis.
The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI)  slipped 0.8 percent.
Russia’s Micex Index lost 0.2.  The slump in Portuguese bonds came after Moody’s cut its
rating on the nation’s debt for the second time in three weeks,
saying another downgrade may follow and the winner of elections
in June will probably tap  Europe ’s bailout fund with
“urgency.”  ‘Sovereign Decay’  The downgrade “is further evidence of the sovereign decay
in the area,” Lee McDarby, head of dealing on the corporate and
institutional treasury desk at Investec Plc in  London , wrote in
a report today.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Portuguese
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds increased to as high as
544 basis points, the most since Bloomberg began tabulating the
data in 1997.  The Dollar Index, which gauges the U.S. currency against
six major peers, was little changed at 75.887.  The zloty strengthened 0.8 percent against the euro after
Poland’s central bank raised its key rate for the second time
this year. The pound strengthened 1 percent against the dollar
after a report showed U.K. service-industry growth unexpectedly
accelerated to the fastest pace in more than a year in March.  The Australian dollar weakened 0.3 percent against the U.S.
currency after the nation’s central bank kept  interest rates 
unchanged for a fourth meeting. New Zealand’s dollar climbed 1
percent versus the yen after Finance Minister Bill English said
business confidence is likely to “bounce back” and the nation
probably doesn’t need any more rate cuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  