-- 
Mysterious Museum of Forbidden Art in Uzbekistan: TV Tonight

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-04-05T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/mysterious-museum-of-forbidden-art-in-uzbekistan-tv-tonight.html
I spent the weekend transported to a
desert city in distant Uzbekistan, looking at avant-garde
paintings in a strange museum created by an impoverished fanatic
and protected by a mild-mannered, elegant woman who could
probably stare down a few tanks and a cadre of functionaries.
(And some day may have to.)  She is Marinika Babanazarova, the director of the Savitsky
Museum in Nukus, and one of the remarkable personalities in
“Desert of Forbidden Art,” a magical film made by Tchavdar
Georgiev and Amanda Pope.  This story of how 40,000 banned artworks were saved from
the KGB and its art critics unfolds tonight on PBS, part of the
Independent Lens series. It’s one of the best films on art I’ve
ever seen, from the camera work to the editing to the simply
wonderful music by Miriam Cutler.  Radiant paintings meld with archival films, photographs and
contemporary scenes of camels stalking grandly through the scrub
desert separating Uzbekistan from the even more remote
autonomous region of Karakalpakstan in the far west.  And that brings us to mysterious Nukus, Karakalpakstan’s
main city, a dusty provincial place with a strange history of
its own.  In Soviet times, Nukus was a closed city ordered up by
insane bureaucrats in faraway Moscow to service a biochemical-
warfare laboratory erected on an island in the Aral Sea. Then
most of the Aral Sea dried up thanks to another highly
unfortunate decision to turn the desert into a cotton bowl.  Exotic Culture  One doesn’t expect much from Nukus.  “It didn’t take me more than a few minutes of walking
around this museum for my jaw to drop,” remembers Stephen Kinzer of the New York Times, whose commentary provides
historical context to the documentary. He stumbled into town in
the mid-1990s as the bureau chief of Central Asia after the
collapse of the  Soviet Union .  Some of these pictures evoke the best of Gauguin,
Kandinsky, Chagall, Grosz and Goncharova, while reflecting the
sun-scorched landscape of an exotic culture.  “How did this happen?” Kinzer asked himself, a question
the film answers with the help of Stalin and the descendants of
artists who followed their vision with often tragic
consequences.  Igor Savitsky, the man who saved the pictures, was born
into a life of privilege that disappeared along with his French
governess in 1917.  The saga of Savitsky -- nicely voiced by Ben Kingsley --
begins when an imperious painter made fun of his pictures. Young
Igor fled Moscow for Uzbekistan where he had worked on an
archaeological dig.  Obsessive devotion to the art of others followed.  Hidden Art  At first, Savitsky collected folk art: textiles, rugs,
jewelry, and ethnic costumes despised as retrograde by the
Soviets and often tossed or hidden. Locals called him the
“rubbish man.”  Then he discovered a forgotten group of artists who had
moved to Uzbekistan in the 1920s to escape KGB censors. Their
art didn’t conform to the Kremlin’s insatiable demand for happy
workers in wholesome factories.  Interviews with their descendants personalize the saga. As
they remember their fathers, mothers, colleagues and friends,
most reveal a fine sense of history, humor and also bad
dentistry.  A widow affectionately described him as having the eyes of
a hooligan. He would find forgotten treasures under beds and pay
with small sums and vouchers. He even cajoled money out of a
young Soviet party boss who helped him open the Nukus Museum in
1966. Facing the camera, the man remembers getting the subsidy
by threatening to decapitate the minister of finance.  A Mystery  There’s a funny scene of Savitsky leaving Moscow with
enough suitcases to fill a compartment, chugging off to
Uzbekistan and then sitting on the road surrounded with his loot
calmly waiting for a truck to take him through the desert and on
to the Nukus Museum.  How he pulled this off is still something of a mystery. But
he had charm, connections and gumption. Eager to exhibit
Nadezhda Borovaya’s pictures of life in a Soviet gulag, he told
the ministry of culture they depicted a Nazi concentration camp.
He got the show.  So often the lives are as interesting as the work: Ural
Tansykbaev became an accommodating painter of the Soviet state,
only to die of a heart attack in his limousine as he hurried
south to visit his youthful works in Nukus.  Saving Volkov  The boldly colorful Alexander Volkov betrayed a colleague
to survive. A recent auction clip shows an early painting
fetching close to $500,000. His sons credit Savitsky for saving
his pictures (and also creating a market for them).  Perhaps the most memorable painting is a nightmarish beast
with eyes like bullet holes by the artist Lysenko, who finished
his life in a mental hospital.  “I like to think of my museum as a keeper of the artists’
souls,” said Savitsky before he died in Moscow in 1984.  By the film’s end, Babanazarova is alone -- her husband has
died, her daughter has decamped -- as she reflects in perfect
English on 25 years of devotion to Savitsky’s museum and looks
somewhat fearfully into the future.  Given Nukus’s shortage of attractions, you would think
international tourists would be a welcome addition to the
indigenous donkeys and goats.  Mysteriously, that is not so. Local authorities seem
conflicted. In an area rife with Islamic fanatics and
nationalists, a woman running a museum filled with avant-garde
Western art is a woman with a problem.  Torn Down  Savitsky’s museum is being torn down in a bizarre
celebration of Uzbekistan’s independence. Its content will be
stuffed into a newer museum built for the collection a few years
ago. Babanazarova’s travel is periodically restricted.  It’s almost as if, in an ironical turn of events, the
cruelly whimsical nature of Soviet cultural policy is being
revived by Uzbek bureaucrats 1,700 miles from Moscow -- where
today a treasure trove probably worth millions of dollars would
find a happy home.  For more on “Desert of Forbidden Art” and Nukus, go to
 http://www.pbs.org/desert-of-forbidden-art   (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s leisure and arts section. Any opinions are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 