-- 
Ziggo Owners Said to Seek as Much as $2.1 Billion in IPO

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-04-06T10:22:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/ziggo-owners-said-to-seek-as-much-as-2-1-billion-in-share-sale.html
Ziggo BV’s owners may seek to raise
as much as 1.5 billion euros ($2.1 billion) in an initial public
offering of the Dutch cable-television company, said two people
with knowledge of the matter.  Ziggo, controlled by private-equity firms Cinven Ltd. and
 Warburg Pincus  LLC, told banks pitching for work on a potential
IPO that it may sell 25 percent to 50 percent of the company in
a share sale, the people said, declining to be named because the
talks are confidential. The company has an equity value of about
3 billion euros and a value of 7 billion euros including debt,
said the people.  Cable companies are benefitting from increasing appetite
for high-definition content and broadband Internet. Demand for
such services is allowing cable companies with fast triple-play
services -- television, Internet and phone -- to boost growth
and ring in profit. Ziggo may hire banks as early as this week
to manage the IPO which could happen in the second quarter,
according to one of the people.  A sale to another company is still an option.  Liberty
Global Inc. (LBTYA) , the cable operator controlled by U.S. billionaire
 John Malone , said in February that it would look at Utrecht,
Netherlands-based Ziggo if the owners wanted to sell. A decision
on a possible IPO hasn’t yet been made, said Martijn Jonker, a
spokesman for Ziggo.  Acquisition Spree  “It would make a lot of sense for Liberty to buy Ziggo to
combine it with their existing Dutch operations and wring out
costs to get scale and bolster profitability,”  Andrew Hogley ,
an analyst at  Espirito Santo  in London, said via phone today.
“But the question is whether Liberty and its shareholders are
willing to spend a lot of money on another acquisition after
they already agreed to buy a German operator last month.”  Liberty Global Chief Strategy Officer Shane O’Neill said in
February that Ziggo “would actually be a better fit” than
 Germany ’s Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH, which Liberty a few
weeks later agreed to buy for about 3.16 billion euros by
trumping offers from private-equity firms. Liberty Global
spokesman Bert Holtkamp yesterday declined to comment further
and referred to O’Neill’s earlier comments.  Some of the company’s bonds rose as investor perceptions of
its creditworthiness improved. Ziggo’s 1.2 billion euros of 8
percent notes due 2018 are trading at about 106.09 cents on the
euro to yield 6.9 percent, up from 105.83 cents yesterday,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Demand  Liberty’s UPC Broadband unit operates in 10 European
countries, including the Netherlands, according to its website.
Kabel BW was Malone’s second German acquisition in less than two
years to benefit from demand for broadband  Internet access  via
cable. Liberty agreed to buy Unitymedia, Germany’s second-
largest cable operator, in November 2009.  Ziggo, which serves about 3.2 million households and has
1.5 million broadband Internet customers, posted sales of 1.38
billion euros in 2010, an increase of 7.1 percent. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and costs to
integrate predecessor businesses rose 12.7 percent to 783.4
million euros. Ziggo was formed by the combination of
Multikabel, Casema and the cable unit of Essent Kabelcom.  Liberty Chief Executive Officer Mike Fries also said in
February that he would look at the asset if Ziggo’s owners
wanted to sell. Liberty would be “opportunistic” about buying
cable assets in western  Europe  as it seeks to expand, Fries said
at the time.  Biggest IPO Since 2006  At the top of the target range, a Ziggo IPO would be the
biggest in the Netherlands since KKR & Co. raised $5 billion in
2006, before it last year delisted in Amsterdam and moved the
shares to  New York . Aviva Plc raised 1.02 billion euros selling
shares of its Dutch unit  Delta Lloyd  in November 2009, the most
recent IPO in the country, according to Bloomberg data.  Edi Cohen  from public relations firm Citigate declined to
comment on behalf of Cinven and referred questions to Ziggo. A
spokesman for Warburg Pincus declined to comment.  Germany’s largest cable operator,  Kabel Deutschland Holding
AG (KD8) , has risen 78 percent since listing on the Frankfurt stock
exchange in March last year.  Kabel Deutschland  said yesterday that  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  may
increase its share in the company over the next 12 months.
BlackRock currently holds 11 percent of Kabel Deutschland
shares, according to Bloomberg data.  “Cable companies such as Ziggo and Kabel Deutschland have
become real competitors for established telecommunication
companies such as KPN or Deutsche Telekom and their broadband
offerings are often faster and better,” Espirito Santo’s Hogley
said. “This is a good time for Ziggo’s owners to sell the asset
and they should be able to fetch a decent price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in  London  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  