-- 
Zimbabwe Exhumation of Mass War-Era Graves Spark Claims of Vote Propaganda

-- B y   N e l s o n   G o r e   B a n y a
-- 
2011-04-05T13:02:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/zimbabwe-exhumation-of-mass-war-era-graves-spark-claims-of-vote-propaganda.html
A group of Zimbabwean liberation war
veterans exhumed bodies from a mass grave found in the country’s
northeast, leading to the Movement for Democratic Change to
accuse President  Robert Mugabe ’s party of using the corpses for
election propaganda.  The bodies, found at an abandoned mine, are of people
killed by soldiers from the white-minority government before
independence in 1980, George Rutanhire, leader of the Zimbabwe
Fallen Heroes Trust, said yesterday by phone from Harare, the
capital. Rutanhire is an official in Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front.  “The MDC calls on Zanu-PF to stop what it is doing and
leave it to the nation to work out an appropriate way forward,
beyond amateur propaganda antics and political carelessness,”
the party said in a statement on its website. The exhumations
“represent a stark betrayal of all Zimbabweans; a serious lack
of care and concern; and a harsh display of political
insincerity, in that for three decades nothing was done to
handle this extremely sensitive issue.”  While Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai ’s MDC is in a power-
sharing government with Zanu-PF, formed in 2009 after a disputed
election, the coalition has often come close to breaking down.
Mugabe wants a new vote this year and the MDC says it is using
the graves to highlight its role in a 14-year war against the
white-minority government of  Ian Smith . Mugabe won an all-race
election in 1980 that officially gave Zimbabwe independence from
Britain, although Smith’s government unilaterally declared
independence in 1965.  The war veterans’ group has taken 849 bodies out of the
graves at Chibondo Mine shaft near Mt Darwin, about 200
kilometers (125 miles) north of Harare, Rutanhire said.  Not Political  “We are going ahead with our program, although this time
we are doing it in conjunction with the government,” he said.
“There are five sites at the mine, which we will be digging up,
but for now we want to identify and bury the exhumed bodies of
our comrades first.”  The exhumations aren’t politically motivated and the bodies
aren’t from more recent fighting, Rutanhire said. Zanu-PF
spokesman Rugare Gumbo declined to comment, saying it was a
government matter when Bloomberg News contacted him by phone
yesterday.  The government had taken control of the mass grave sites
and will bury the exhumed bodies properly in line with accepted
standards and norms, Home Affairs Minister and ZANU-PF official
Kembo Mohadi, said in a March 27 interview on state TV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nelson Gore Banya in Johannesburg at 
 ngbanya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  