-- 
Zloty Gains as Polish Central Bank Is ‘Hawkish’ After Rate Rise

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-04-05T15:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-05/zloty-gains-as-polish-central-bank-is-hawkish-after-rate-rise.html
The zloty advanced to the strongest
in almost a week after Poland’s central bank raised  interest
rates  for the second time this year and signaled borrowing costs
may climb further.  The zloty appreciated 0.5 percent to 4.0036 per euro as of
5:11 p.m. in Warsaw, the strongest intraday level since March
30. It had the second-steepest gain among more than 20 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Six-month forward rate
agreements that investors use to bet on future interest rate
moves rose 3 basis points to 4.96 percent, the highest level in
six weeks.  It’s too early to tell if Poland is nearing the end of its
monetary tightening cycle, Governor  Marek Belka  said at a news
conference in Warsaw today, and there is nothing
“predetermined” about the speed and scope of possible rate
increases. The central bank is continuing its tightening cycle
as surging commodity prices risk keeping inflation high for a
sustained period, it said in an e-mailed statement.  “The market is reading this statement as hawkish,” said
Jan Koprowski, a currency trader at BNP Paribas SA in Warsaw.
“Earlier they held back from talking about future rate
increases and now that’s changed.”  Today’s quarter-percentage point increase lifted  Poland ’s
benchmark seven-day rate to 4 percent, matching predictions from
22 of 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Policy makers across the globe are struggling to contain
accelerating inflation, driven by surging food and fuel prices.
Since March, when the Narodowy Bank Polski refrained from
raising interest rates, the inflation rate remained above the
bank’s 2.5 percent target for a fifth month, while the rate of
consumer-price increases expected by consumers in the next 12
months posted its biggest one-month jump in a decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  