-- 
‘Wall Street’ Director Stone Says Banks Still Selfish, Arrogant

-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 
2011-03-27T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/-wall-street-director-stone-says-banks-still-selfish-arrogant-interview.html
Almost a year after “ Wall Street :
Money Never Sleeps,”  Oliver Stone  says most bankers persist in
being selfish and financial markets remain riddled with excess.  The film director is still unimpressed by the practices of
Wall Street’s financial gurus. He is working on a movie called
“Savages” about American history and spoke in a telephone
interview from his Los Angeles office.  Thind: You switched the  Josh Brolin  character in “Wall
Street: Money Never Sleeps” to a banker from a hedge fund
manager. What changed your mind?  Stone: The script had come from Alan Loeb. As we
investigated, it became clear the big money was at the banks. We
switched over with Josh Brolin playing the head of the bank.  I met with several  hedge funds . They have a right to
speculation as long as the investor is sophisticated enough to
know what he is doing. I don’t see them as Tony  Montana  exactly.
They’re just the tail, the dog is wagging them. The big dog is
these seven banks.  Thind: Were the hedge funds culpable for the crisis?  Stone: You can’t condemn the hedge funders for doing what
they’re doing. If they’re gonna be pigs they’re pigs, wrecking
birthday parties and all that.  I could’ve made a movie about hedge funders but it would’ve
been more like a James Bond movie where guys are flying around.  Russia to Monaco  The original script had a lot of people flying around in
helicopters, Russian hedge funders,  Monaco , all that boring Bond
stuff.  Thind: How do you convey the ins and outs of an investment
bank’s work so that ordinary people can understand it?  Stone: It’s hard to show some of that stuff. How do you
show how the mortgage market works in the film or prop trading?
I know when the audience is going to yawn and nod off.  Thind: Did you therefore have to make serious allowances?  Stone: We’re dealing with a drama, with actors, characters,
people have to be involved, we have to make 60, 70, 80 million
dollars in order to justify this investment. People are not
realistic about that.  Thind: Hedge funds have been big financiers of the film
business. Was there any pressure on you to put a more favorable
light on the industry?  Stone: I didn’t pull any punches. Fox, who made both
movies, they work with Dune, I think they’re a large fund.  Thind: What about excess? It’s still a common issue.  Stone: I did excess in the 1980s. My feeling as a filmmaker
is that I don’t want to go back and just do excess.  Smart, Selfish  Wall Street is complicated. I didn’t want to simplify it
and make it stupid because I respect those people. They’re smart
as a whip. I met wizards. They’re impressive guys but where’s
their soul, that’s their issue. Most of them are selfish, they
take care of their little family but they screw everybody else
over. Some of them are nice guys and maintain a balance in their
lives but some of them lose it and they become so arrogant.  Thind: What are you working on next?  Stone: I’m writing a thriller called “ Savages ,” on the
history of the U.S. I’ve been working three years on this and
hoping to deliver it in the fall. It’s about America’s forgotten
history. It’s set in World War II, about how we got to be where
we are. It’s the culmination of my work and my life, I think.  (Sarfraz Thind is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own. This interview was adapted from
a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarfraz Thind in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 