-- 
‘Wimpy Kid’ Is Top Weekend Film With Sales of $23.8 Million

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-03-28T20:26:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/-wimpy-kid-is-top-weekend-film-at-24-4-million-sucker-punch-is-no-2.html
“Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Rodrick
Rules” opened in first place in its debut weekend, taking in
ticket sales of $23.8 million in U.S. and Canadian theaters for
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Studio.  “Sucker Punch,” the special-effects fantasy film from
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., was second with $19.1 million,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Ticket sales declined for a fifth week compared with a year
earlier, when audiences flocked to see such movies as “Alice in
Wonderland” and “How to Train Your Dragon” in the three-
dimensional format. Those two films accounted for $61.4 million
of $128.7 million taken in at theaters in the year-ago period,
according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  “It’s a lackluster first quarter that we’re finishing, and
looking at next weekend it seems as if the second quarter is
going to start off with a whimper,” Gitesh Pandya, editor of
Box Office Guru, said yesterday in an interview. “The continued
product flow is not as commercial as it was a year ago.”  “Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Rodrick Rules” is the second film
in a series based on the books by Greg Heffley. The first movie,
released a year ago, cost about $15 million to make and
generated $75.7 million in worldwide ticket sales for Twentieth
Century Fox, according to Box Office Mojo. The new film cost $21
million, according to the  Sherman Oaks , California-based
researcher.  ‘Sucker Punch’  In the latest installment, Greg must deal with his mother’s
attempt to make him bond with his older brother. Zachary Gordon
stars as Greg and Devon Bostick plays older brother Rodrick.  “The goodwill that the first movie generated helped this
one,” said Pandya.  “Sucker Punch,” from “300” director Zack Snyder, tells
the story of a girl who is scheduled to undergo a lobotomy after
being locked in an asylum. She retreats into an imaginary world
where she and fellow inmates fight an array of warriors and
strange creatures.  Emily Browning  stars as the young woman.
Vanessa Hudgens, Abbie Cornish and Scott Glenn co-star.  “Usually when Zack Snyder and Warner Bros. put out a film
you get grosses akin to summer blockbusters,” said  Jeff Bock , a
box-office analyst for Exhibitor Relations Co. “This was just
too strange for audiences to digest.”  ‘Lincoln Lawyer’  “Limitless” dropped to third from first with $15.1
million. The film stars  Bradley Cooper  as an aspiring author
whose mental capacity is expanded by an experimental drug.
Robert De Niro co-stars as a business mogul who wants to use the
writer’s new intellect to increase his fortune. The film is from
Relativity Media LLC.  “The Lincoln Lawyer” remained in fourth place with $10.8
million for distributor  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  The
movies stars Matthew McConaughey as a lawyer whose life takes a
dangerous turn after he is hired to defend a Beverly Hills man
accused of rape.  “Rango,” the animated comedy from  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount
Pictures and Nickelodeon, fell to fifth place from second with
$9.8 million. The movie features the voice of  Johnny Depp  as a
chameleon who tries to clean up the Wild West town of Dirt. The
film reunites the actor and director Gore Verbinski, who oversaw
Depp in Disney’s successful “Pirates of the Caribbean” series.  Revenue for the weekend’s top 12 films fell 7.2 percent to
$108.6 million from a year ago, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
box-office sales this year have declined 19 percent to $2.18
billion. Attendance is down 20 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
March 25 to March 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  