-- 
ADCB to Decide on RHB Stake Sale in Several Weeks, Banker Says

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-03-27T12:10:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/adcb-to-decide-on-rhb-stake-sale-in-several-weeks-banker-says.html
Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) , the
 United Arab Emirates ’ third-biggest bank by assets, will decide
in two to three weeks on whether to sell a 25 percent stake in
 RHB Capital Bhd (RHBC) , a banker familiar with the matter said.  ADCB, which acquired the stake in the Malaysian lender in
2008 for 3.9 billion ringgit ($1.3 billion), has hired  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to advise on whether to sell the holding, the
person said, declining to be identified because of
confidentiality restrictions. Another bank also may be hired,
the person said.  The assignment for the stake sale will be awarded to one
bank when the decision is taken, according to the person. ADCB
hired Goldman Sachs to sell its stake in RHB Capital, Reuters
reported yesterday, citing two people with knowledge of the
matter. An ADCB spokesman declined to comment. A spokeswoman for
Goldman Sachs couldn’t immediately be reached outside normal
business hours.  Lending and investment banking in the federation have been
hurt by the global economic slowdown and provisions for bad
loans increased. ADCB is one of the biggest lenders to state-
owned  Dubai World , which reached a deal this month to alter the
terms on about $25 billion of debt.  ADCB’s stake in RHB Capital is valued at 4.9 billion
ringgit ($1.6 billion), based on a closing price of 8.31 ringgit
on March 25, according to Bloomberg calculations.  A sale of the RHB stake “would largely address ADCB’s
significant capital deficit,” HC Research said in a note last
week. “ADCB would still be undercapitalized, in our view, but
the capital deficit would be largely addressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  