-- 
Maestro Nurtures a New Too-Big-to Fail Crisis: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-03-27T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/maestro-nurtures-a-new-too-big-to-fail-crisis-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
Just tell the government to back
off and all will be fine.  That’s what former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan 
seems to say in “Activism,” an article published in the Spring
issue of International Finance available on the  Council on
Foreign Relations ’  website .  “Current government activism is hampering what should be a
broad-based robust economic recovery,” he writes.  If we follow his advice this time, and if his line of
reasoning prevails in the 2012 presidential election, we’ll
stumble again into another boom-bust-bailout crisis.  Sometimes it seems like there are two Alan Greenspans. One
is an advocate of the free market, in which all participants
sink or swim. The other favors government subsidies and specific
outcomes masquerading under the banner of “free markets.”  The heyday of the real free-market Greenspan was in the
first months of the credit crisis in 2008. “If they’re too big
to fail, they’re too big,” was his catchphrase. At that moment,
he cut through the fog of crisis and articulated an impressively
bipartisan view.  Many thinkers, such as  Allan Meltzer  (from the right) and
 Joseph Stiglitz  (from the left), agreed with Greenspan on this
and probably only this. Kansas City Federal Reserve President
 Thomas Hoenig  and Democratic Senator Sherrod Brown were also in
accord.  Eugene Fama , a finance professor at the  University of
Chicago  and the father of the efficient-markets doctrine, said
on CNBC last year that “too big to fail” is “perverting
activities and incentives,” giving big financial firms “a
license to increase risk; where the taxpayers will bear the
downside and firms will bear the upside.”  Greenspan Failures  Anat Admati of  Stanford University , along with a Who’s Who
of top finance professors, has written about the need for more
capital throughout the financial system, including big banks,
precisely because we can’t handle the failure of major
institutions. Or look at the book by Gary Stern and Ron Feldman
(of the  Minneapolis Fed ), years ahead of its time in 2004,
called “Too Big To Fail.” All the failures of the Greenspan
era are foreshadowed there.             But then there is the other Greenspan, the one who was
chairman of the Federal Reserve Board for almost two decades,
and who is now back with a vengeance. Greenspan while in power,
of course, was really a supporter of specific outcomes, even
when those involved banks becoming ever larger and risks
becoming more concentrated in key parts of the financial system.  Concentrated Risks  In the last decade of his watch, combined assets in the
largest six bank holding companies rose from 17 percent of U.S.
gross domestic product to more than 50 percent (this measure now
stands at 62 percent). As Fed chairman, Greenspan presided over
the demise of the last vestiges of restrictions on megabanks.
The Fed implicitly blessed the build-up of concentrated risks in
the form of over-the-counter derivatives such as credit-default
swaps, which figured in the failures of both Bear Stearns Cos.
and  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   This wasn’t all the Fed’s doing. The Securities and
Exchange Commission was also complicit and the Treasury
Department, under  Robert Rubin  and  Larry Summers , in some
instances led the charge. But Greenspan was a leading proponent
of the view that if someone powerful in finance wanted to do
something, that must be OK. This isn’t a view that anyone
generally holds for other sectors. Even pro-business advocates
say excessive concentration in one industry is bad for society
and for business.  Fear of Failure  This view of finance lacks strong intellectual
underpinnings. And it’s one that Greenspan himself held after
the credit crisis revealed that officials fear the failure of
major financial institutions.  Now, Greenspan seems to have relapsed into a form of his
older self. His latest writing says the problem with the  U.S.
economy  today is an excess of government “activism.” If only,
he says, the government would back off, firms would become more
willing to use their cash hoards to increase investment spending
and hiring.                          But Greenspan today ignores the more brutal reality: We are
still experiencing the aftermath of a major financial crisis and
this time isn’t different at all, as any reader of  Kenneth Rogoff  and  Carmen Reinhart  knows. Our situation is simple and
sadly classic. Policy makers, led by Greenspan, allowed the
financial system to become dangerous and, in some key aspects,
out of control. The recovery is similar to those following
almost all financial crises: When part of the financial system
fails, the rest comes back only through active resuscitation.  Of course, the major questions for private industry are:
Will credit collapse again, and what happens when the Fed steps
back from supporting markets?  Greenspan’s argument is insidious. But this isn’t about
free-markets, in the sense that all participants can fail
without getting any kind of bailout. Many smart people are
working hard to become or to remain too big to fail. And
Greenspan is again urging us into another damaging cycle.  ( Simon Johnson , co-author of “13 Bankers: The Wall Street
Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown” and a professor at
MIT’s Sloan School of Management, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  