-- 
Laird Wins Arnold Palmer Invitational to Complete Golf Double for Scotland

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-03-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/martin-laird-holds-on-for-1-shot-win-at-golf-s-arnold-palmer-invitational.html
Martin Laird became the first
European winner of golf’s Arnold Palmer Invitational to give
 Scotland  a pair of champions on the same day.  Laird made par at the final hole yesterday for a one-shot
win over Steve Marino at Bay Hill Club and Lodge in  Orlando ,
 Florida . Hours earlier, his countryman and 1999 British Open
champion Paul Lawrie ended a nine-year title drought with a one-
shot victory at the European Tour’s Andalucia Open in  Spain .  Laird, who began the day with a two-stroke lead, shot a 3-
over-par 75 to finish at 8-under-par 280. It was the highest
final round to win in 33 editions of the tournament. Laird
looked to have blown his chance to secure a second U.S. PGA Tour
win after playing the first 11 holes in 5-over par. He said his
errors didn’t make him doubt that he’d win.  “I said to my caddy ‘I’ve got two par-5s left, I’ve been
killing them all week,’ and he pointed to my putter and said
‘you’ve got this, too,’” Laird, 28, told NBC in a televised
interview. “It paid off in the end.”  Marino finished in second place, missing out on his
breakthrough win on the tour after an even-par final round 72.  Laird earned $1.08 million with the win. The first Scot to
play full time on the  PGA Tour  since Sandy Lyle, Laird’s prior
win on the world’s richest golf circuit came at the 2009 Justin
Timberlake Shriners Hospitals for Children Open.  His score of 75 is the highest final round to win a title
on the tour since Trevor Immelman shot the same number to win
the 2008 Masters Tournament.  Positive Woods  Tiger Woods finished in a tie for 24th place. The world No.
5 began the day at 1-under par and moved to 4-under through 16
holes.  He then bogeyed the par-3 17th hole after his tee shot
landed in a bunker and had a double bogey at the last after his
second shot found a water hazard. Woods didn’t let his finish
upset him.  “It was a very good week,” he told reporters. “I really
hit the ball well and the things that we were working on the
last couple weeks, really, really felt comfortable.”  Marino scored double bogey at the 17th to leave Laird two
shots ahead. The 31-year-old American then birdied the last hole
to force Laird to score par at No. 18 to win.  Laird’s final tee shot ran through the fairway into deep
rough. He left his 137-yard (125 meter) second shot on the
green, 86 feet from the pin. He rolled his first putt to about
four feet and holed out for the victory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in New York at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  