-- 
Latin America Should End Stimulus Before Using Capital Controls, IMF Says

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-03-27T20:35:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/latin-america-should-end-stimulus-before-using-capital-controls-imf-says.html
Latin American policy makers should
withdraw fiscal and monetary stimulus to prevent their economies
from overheating before turning to capital controls to limit
foreign currency inflows, said Nicolas Eyzaguirre, the
International Monetary Fund´s Western Hemisphere director.  Governments should first end programs used to bolster
economic growth during the financial crisis two years ago and
central bankers need to raise  interest rates  that are low
compared with their historic averages, Eyzaguirre said at the
 Inter-American Development Bank ’s annual meeting in Calgary.  “If you remain in a stimulus mood and add that with what’s
coming in from abroad, through high commodity prices and very
easy financing conditions, you won´t have enough strength to
stop the overheating,” he told reporters today. “You cannot
mitigate -- through macro regulation, capital controls or
monetary policy -- the strength of these push factors.”  Nations including  Brazil  and  Colombia  are trying to curb
gains in their currencies, which hurts the competitiveness of
their exports, and fight inflation after near-zero borrowing
costs in advanced economies such as the U.S. and  Japan  spurred
demand for higher-yielding assets in emerging markets.
Colombia’s central bank said Feb. 25 it will extend daily dollar
purchases in the local market for at least three more months.
Brazil has raised taxes on foreign purchases of bonds and
stocks.  Some capital controls can be useful when foreign currency
inflows become excessive and create extortions in the economy,
Eyzaguirre said.  “Capital controls could be perfectly considered as a
tool,” he said. “When tailwinds are very strong you should
consider in your policy toolkit as many policies as you can
because when these push factors are strong enough you may not
afford constraining yourself to the most traditional ones.”  Most Latin American governments have not fully withdrawn
stimulus to levels before the financial crisis, while their
economies have recovered and are running with little idle
capacity, he said. Regional growth should slow this year
compared with 2010, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in Calgary at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  