-- 
AstraZeneca, Aviva, EasyJet: U.K., Irish Equity Market Preview

-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-28T06:41:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/aviva-easyjet-tribal-group-u-k-irish-equity-market-preview.html
The following is a list of
companies that may have unusual share-price changes in U.K. and
or Irish markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices
are from the last market close.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose 19.89 points, or 0.3
percent, to 5,900.76. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  gained 0.3
percent while Ireland’s ISEQ Index advanced 0.5 percent.  3i Group Plc (III)  : The U.K. private equity investor has
sent turnaround expert Alan Peterson into Enterprise, the U.K.’s
largest supplier of services to councils and utilities, the
Sunday Times reported, without saying where it got the
information. The shares dropped 0.6 percent to 298.2 pence.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  : The drugmaker raised its 2011
target for core earnings per share to $6.90 to $7.20 after the
U.K. and U.S. tax authorities agreed to transfer pricing
arrangements for its U.S. business for the 13 years from 2002 to
the end of 2014. The shares rose 0.9 percent to 2,874 pence.  Aviva Plc (AV/)  : Richard Broadbent, deputy chairman of
Barclays Plc, is the leading candidate to become chairman of
Aviva, the Financial Times reported, citing unidentified people
with knowledge of the matter. The shares gained 0.6 percent to
434 pence.  BowLeven Plc (BLVN)  : The Scottish oil explorer said it
had a cash balance of $189 million at the end of 2010, enabling
it to finance a drilling program in Cameroon. The stock
retreated 0.4 percent to 358.75 pence.  BP Plc (BP/)  :  Europe ’s second largest  oil company  may
have to spend $15 billion to buy out its partners in TNK-BP
after they blocked its attempted share swap with OAO Rosneft,
the Sunday Times reported, citing unnamed analysts and bankers.
The stock rose 0.6 percent to 483.55 pence.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  : Fawaz Abdulaziz Alhokair &
Co. signed a deal with Burberry Group to establish a Riyadh-
based company to sell Burberry brand products in  Saudi Arabia ,
Alhokair said in a statement to the Saudi bourse website. The
shares advanced 0.2 percent to 1,116 pence.  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  : UBS AG raised its recommendation
for the oil producer to “buy” from “neutral.” The stock
gained 0.8 percent to 447.5 pence.  Chemring Group Plc (CHG)  : The U.K. defense-goods maker
is meeting with NYSE Euronext in the next few weeks as part of a
plan to attract U.S. investors, the Sunday Telegraph reported,
citing Chief Executive Officer  David Price . The shares gained
1.8 percent to 700 pence.  Daily Mail  and General Trust Plc (DMGT LN): The publisher
of Britain’s Daily Mail newspaper said sales in the first five
months of the current financial year rose 2 percent. The stock
dropped 2.3 percent to 503 pence.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  : Chief Executive Officer Carolyn
McCall said fare increases are “inevitable” given higher  oil
prices . The carrier has no plans to add a fuel surcharge, the
CEO said during EasyJet’s inaugural flight to Amman, Jordan. The
stock dropped 1 percent to 324.5 pence.  HMV Group Plc (HMV)  : Tim Waterstone, founder of the U.K.
book chain that bears his name, is working with Russian
billionaire Alexander Mamut on an offer for the company, which
is owned by HMV Group Plc, the Observer said, without saying
where it got the information. The shares jumped 4.5 percent to
17.5 pence.  ITV Plc (ITV)  : The U.K.’s biggest commercial broadcaster
is considering acquisitions to bolster its in-house production
operations, the Sunday Telegraph reported, citing Chief
Executive Officer Adam Crozier. The stock retreated 2.2 percent
to 80.65 pence.  Lamprell Plc (LAM)  : The oil- and gas-rig construction
company reported full-year profit more than doubled to $69.5
million. The shares rose 3 percent to 314 pence.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  : The London-based lender
may hire Credit Suisse Group AG and N.M. Rothschild & Sons Ltd.
to advise on the sale of more than 600 of its branches, the Mail
on Sunday reported, without saying where it got the information.
The stock fell 0.4 percent to 60.09 pence.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  : Europe’s biggest oil
company is in talks on an Arctic exploration agreement with OAO
Rosneft, the Mail on Sunday said, citing an unidentified person
at the Russian company. The shares advanced 1 percent to 2,258
pence.  Southern Cross Healthcare Ltd. (SCHE)  : The U.K.’s
largest care-home operator told landlords that own a third of
its 752 care homes that it is switching to monthly rent payments
from quarterly as it seeks to stave off default, the Sunday
Times reported, without saying where it got the information. The
stock surged 15 percent to 15.5 pence.  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  : The world’s fourth-largest retailer
has put a cap on its promise to refund double the price
difference on products found more cheaply at Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.’s Asda chain after some customers boasted online that they
claimed hundreds of pounds on the promotion, the Guardian
reported. The shares fell 0.1 percent to 388.45 pence.  Tribal Group Plc (TRB)  : The U.K. support services
company received an offer for its education arm, which conducts
school inspections for Ofsted, the government watchdog, the
Sunday Times said, without saying how it got the information.
The shares were unchanged at 36.25 pence.  WPP Plc (WPP)  : The world’s largest advertising company
is close to making acquisitions in  China , the Sunday Telegraph
reported, without saying where it got the information. The
transaction may be announced this week, the report said. The
stock gained 0.3 percent to 759 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 