-- 
Dan Zwirn Seeks Comeback With Alda Three Years After Shutting Hedge Fund

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-05-18T17:49:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/dan-zwirn-seeks-comeback-with-alda-three-years-after-shutting-hedge-fund.html
Daniel Zwirn, the  New York  investor
forced to shut a $4 billion hedge fund because of client
withdrawals, is starting over with a new publicly traded fund
that will be safe from redemptions.  Zwirn will help manage a closed-end fund for Alda Capital
Corp. that will lend to small and medium-sized companies, the
Chicago-based firm disclosed in a regulatory filing this month
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Alda plans to raise
about $50 million for the fund, according to the filing.  Zwirn produced 49 consecutive months of positive returns by
making similar loans from his hedge fund, only to get caught
short of cash when investors pulled money in 2007 following a
delay in the release of a financial audit. With banks having
slashed lending to middle-market companies, money managers like
Zwirn are rushing to fill the void by setting up funds known as
business development companies, or BDCs, to provide debt
financing, particularly in conjunction with takeovers.  “This is an advantageous way to pick up certain illiquid
assets and manage them,” said Peter Shea, a fund lawyer in the
New York office of Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP. “There has been
an enormous uptick in BDC transactions.”  Zwirn didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment. The
39-year-old investor founded D.B. Zwirn & Co. in 2001, following
stints at Highbridge Capital Management LLC and  Michael Dell ’s
MSD Capital LP, both based in New York. He eventually managed
about $12 billion in assets.  Shuts Fund  The flagship D.B. Zwirn Special Opportunities Fund closed
in February 2008 after investors asked to withdraw more than $2
billion. The fund had told clients in early 2007 that an
internal investigation had found improper financial transfers
and accounting of expenses. It took until December 2007 for an
independent auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, to report that
Zwirn’s financial statements conformed to generally accepted
auditing standards.  D.B. Zwirn has said it was the victim of misconduct by a
former employee, and that an investigation showed the company’s
actions were above reproach.  Fortress Investment Group LLC, a New York-based money
manager, agreed in April 2009 to handle the liquidation of the
$4 billion fund, whose assets included private-equity
investments and loans to companies that had trouble obtaining
financing elsewhere. Clients were repaid with interest on any
money they were owed because of the audit.  SEC Complaint  The SEC last month filed a complaint against Perry Gruss,
D.B. Zwirn’s former chief financial officer, alleging that he
authorized $870 million in improper transfers between the
Special Opportunities Fund’s onshore and offshore accounts
without informing Zwirn or any of the firm’s other partners.  Nathaniel Akerman, an attorney representing Gruss, said in
a statement issued at the time that the SEC’s allegations were
“completely without merit.” Akerman, who works in the New York
office of Dorsey & Whitney LLP, filed a motion May 16 seeking
dismissal of the SEC complaint.  Zwirn tried to start a new hedge fund in April 2008 called
ZLC Global Investments that would use the same investment
strategy as his Special Opportunities Fund, people familiar with
the situation said at the time. There are no records at the SEC
or the Delaware Department of Corporations showing that ZLC
Global was incorporated or raised any money.  In its May 9 filing with the SEC, Alda said access to
capital by “ hedge funds  and other opportunistic leverage
providers” has dwindled in recent years, “reducing their
ability to provide capital to small and medium-sized
companies.”  Middle Market  Syndicated loans to middle-market companies, defined as
those with earnings of $50 million or less before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, totaled $34.8 billion in
2006 and $34.2 billion in 2007, according to Standard & Poor’s
Leveraged Commentary & Data. Following the crisis, those totals
dropped to $5.3 billion in 2009 and $11.7 billion in 2010, S&P
figures show.  Alan Gordon, chairman and chief executive officer of Alda
Capital Manager LLC, the fund’s investment adviser, didn’t
return telephone calls seeking comment. He is also the chairman
and chief executive officer of Chicago-based Richland, Gordon &
Co., a private-equity firm founded in 1947.  Gordon and Zwirn are the co-managers of Alda Capital LLC, a
private-equity investment firm formed last year, according to
the  SEC filing . In turn, Gordon and a member of Zwirn’s family
hold a stake through the private-equity firm in Alda Capital
Manager LLC, the loan fund’s investment adviser.  Gordon and Zwirn, along with executive Lori Wittman, will
serve on an investment committee that initially screens and then
gives final approval to each investment opportunity that the
advisory firm’s staff identifies for the fund. Zwirn is not an
employee, officer or director of the Alda fund itself, according
to his spokesman.  Attractive Margins  As a business development company, Alda can borrow as much
as 50 cents for each dollar of capital, compared with a limit of
33 cents for standard closed-end funds. BDCs generally must
invest at least 70 percent of their portfolios in securities or
loans from U.S. companies that are privately held or have market
capitalizations of $250 million or less, said Eric Purple, an
attorney in the Washington office of K&L Gates, who specializes
in investment funds.  Closed-end funds, such as BDCs, issue a fixed number of
shares that trade on  stock exchanges , meaning that investors who
want to cash out can simply sell their holdings in the open
market. Mutual funds, by comparison, allow redemptions daily and
hedge funds usually do so quarterly, raising the possibility
that managers will have to sell assets should a number of
investors seek to cash out simultaneously.  “Really what the BDC was designed for was to get capital
into smaller private U.S. companies,” said Troy Ward, an
analyst who follows the industry for Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. in
 St. Louis .  Interest Rates   Ward said the annual interest rates on loans to such
businesses are generally between 10.5 percent and 11 percent.
“There is definitely margin to be made in lending in the middle
market, and it’s attracting more and more capital,” he said.  Steven Klinsky, chief executive officer of New Mountain
Capital LLC, a New York-based buyout firm, filed in February to
raise $200 million for a BDC that will invest in the debt of
companies with annual earnings of $20 million to $200 million.
Mark Attanasio, the owner of the Milwaukee Brewers baseball team
and a co-founder of Crescent Capital Group LLC, filed in March
to create a similar fund.  Oaktree Capital Management LP, in a May 11 filing to raise
$125 million for a BDC that will make direct loans to companies,
cited data from research firm Preqin Ltd. that U.S.-focused
buyout firms are sitting on about $535 billion of “dry
powder,” or uninvested capital. The private-equity firms will
need debt financing to supplement their capital for leveraged
buyouts, according to the Los Angeles-based firm’s filing.  “It’s anticipated that there is going to be quite a lot of
appetite, and some of the traditional sources like banks  are
not as active as they were,” said Richard Prins, an attorney in
the New York office of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
who is working on BDC stock offerings, including Oaktree’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  