-- 
Billionaire Ambani to Partner With D.E. Shaw for India Venture

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-03-27T13:58:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/billionaire-ambani-to-partner-with-d-e-shaw-for-india-venture.html
Billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  said it reached an agreement with D.E.
Shaw Group, a closely held investment and technology development
company, to offer financial services in India.  The joint venture will incorporate D.E. Shaw’s “investment
and technology expertise with Reliance’s operational knowledge
and extensive presence” in India, Reliance Industries, operator
of the world’s biggest refinery complex, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Fast economic growth in the last three years is bolstering
demand for services in India. U.S. investor Warren Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. said March 2 it reached an agreement to
sell insurance to Indian consumers via the Internet and by phone
with Bajaj Allianz General Insurance.  Ambani, 53, last year acquired a stake in  EIH Ltd. (EIH) ,
operator of the luxury Oberoi hotel chain, as he diversifies
away from the oil and gas industry that made him India’s richest
man and the world’s ninth-richest person with a net worth
estimated at $27 billion, according to Forbes magazine.  He also invested more than $1 billion in a broadband
company and a cargo carrier and announced plans to build
hospitals, universities and set up a sports-marketing company.  Business Split  The billionaire Ambani brothers split their family business
after their father Dhirubhai Ambani died in 2002 without leaving
a will. The brothers began negotiating a truce after a May 7
Supreme Court verdict asking Mukesh-controlled Reliance
Industries and  Reliance Natural Resources Ltd. (RNR) , controlled by
Anil  Dhirubhai Ambani , to renegotiate a contract over natural
gas supplies.  Mukesh and Anil agreed to end a 2006 non-compete agreement
on May 23, allowing them to enter each other’s businesses.  “After the non-compete agreement being called off, this
was waiting to happen,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief
strategist at SMC Global Securities Ltd. in  New Delhi , adding
that Reliance Industries appeared to be gradually widening its
range of services and products.  “Overall, it’s fascinating to see Reliance Industries
increasing its diversification,” Thunuguntla said. “It may be
critical for the company’s future in the sense that the group is
diversifying from being a commodities player to more diversified
services industry.”  Reliance Industries sold a 30 percent stake in 23 oil and
gas blocks to BP Plc,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company, on
Feb. 21 for $7.2 billion.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  on March 16
picked Mukesh Ambani to join its board as the lender seeks to
expand revenue from outside the U.S.  Manoj Warrier, a spokesman for Reliance, declined to
comment on details of the venture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  