-- 
Butler, Connecticut Win to Advance to NCAA Basketball National Semifinals

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-03-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/butler-connecticut-win-to-advance-to-ncaa-basketball-national-semifinals.html
Butler University  will make its
second consecutive appearance and the  University of Connecticut 
will play for a fourth time in the national semifinals of
college basketball’s men’s tournament.  Butler beat the University of  Florida  74-71 in overtime
yesterday and  Connecticut  defeated the  University of Arizona  65-
63 in the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.  No. 8 Butler will play the winner of today’s Southwest
regional final, between No. 11 Virginia Commonwealth and  Kansas ,
the only remaining No. 1 seed, for a place in the championship
game.  “I’m incredibly proud of these guys -- they carried their
coach today in a big way,” Butler coach Brad Stevens told
reporters. “I got out-coached big time, but our assistants did
a great job and our players did a great job.”  Connecticut , ranked third in the West, will play the winner
of today’s East regional final, between No. 4 Kentucky and No. 2
 North Carolina .  The Huskies (30-9) made the last of their three prior
appearances in the national semifinals in 2009. Butler (27-9),
which lost to Duke in last year’s national final, has never won
the tournament, while Connecticut claimed the title twice, in
1999 and 2004.  Mack Seals Win  Butler overcame an 11-point second-half deficit and Matt
Howard’s free throw with 31 seconds left in the second half tied
the score at 60-60 before Florida’s Erving Walker missed a 3-
point jumper for the win as time expired.  Shelvin Mack hit a 3-pointer with 1 minute, 20 seconds left
in overtime to lift the Bulldogs to a 72-70 lead. Mack, who
scored 27 points, sealed the victory with two free throws with
11 seconds to go at the  New Orleans  Arena in New Orleans.  “They did everything in their power physically, mentally
and emotionally to try to win,” Florida coach Billy Donovan
told reporters. “Hopefully our guys that are returning will
have a chance to learn from this experience.”  Connecticut led 32-25 at halftime at the Honda Center in
Anaheim. Arizona tied it at 34-34 with 15:17 to play and the
teams traded the lead four more times before Connecticut went
ahead for good on a Jeremy Lamb jump shot with 5:52 to play that
made it 56-55.  ‘Thrill Beyond Compare’  “This unique group of young guys have just given me a
thrill beyond compare,” Huskies coach Jim Calhoun, who has won
the NCAA title twice, told reporters. “Never could I imagine
the team winning nine tournament games in 19 days.”  Jamelle Horne hit a 3-pointer to bring  Arizona  within two
points with 1:02 left in the game. With four seconds to play,
Arizona missed two attempts to score.  “To have two shots, both that could have won us the game,
as hard and difficult as it is right now, I think we all, and I
can live with that,” Arizona coach Sean Miller told reporters.
“We move on.”  Kemba Walker led the Huskies with 20 points and Lamb added
19. Derrick Williams scored 20 points for Arizona.  “It’s not just Kemba Walker, it’s the overall team effort
and poise that UConn has,” Miller said. Walker “is impossible
to stop.”  The Final Four is scheduled for April 2-4 in Houston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  