-- 
Cameron Urges Business Start-Ups as Firms Pledge Support

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-03-28T14:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/cameron-chasing-growth-urges-britons-to-become-entrepreneurs.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  urged
Britons to create their own businesses, saying private
enterprise is essential to drive the economic revival as his
government sticks by its program of cutting the  budget deficit .  “The recovery we need is a private sector-led recovery
with ‘Made in Britain’ stamped all over it,” Cameron said in
 London  today at the launch of a private initiative to encourage
start-up companies. “Those who argue we just have to pump a lot
more money into our economy don’t get it. It would mean
businesses being hit by higher  interest rates  and higher taxes
down the line.”  Corporations backing the “Start-Up Britain” program,
including  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Research In Motion
Ltd., have agreed to provide 1,500 pounds ($2,397) worth of
support ranging from internet services to marketing assistance
for people wanting to set up their own companies, Cameron said.  Britain’s Conservative-led coalition government is relying
on private companies to create more than a million jobs over the
next four years as the government axes more than 300,000 public-
sector posts in the biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II.  The independent  Office for Budget Responsibility  last week
cut its economic growth forecast for 2011 to 1.7 percent from
2.1 percent, saying accelerating inflation is likely to erode
household incomes.  ‘Now is the Time’  “To drive our economy forward, we need thousands to make
that step and strike out on their own,” Cameron said. “So I
want to make a direct appeal to everyone who’s sitting at home
or at their desk thinking about starting their own business: Now
is the time to do it.”  Other initiatives announced today include a plan to
encourage schoolchildren to try their hand at business through
 “Tenner Tycoon,”  a program that gives them 10 pounds to start
micro-enterprises, and an online tool to help businesses pitch
for government work.  Cameron said he wanted government departments to give
contracts to small firms, rather than saying, “I’m safer going
to Capita,” a reference to Capita Group Plc, which provides
services including a criminal records service for the Home
Office.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , speaking at
today’s launch, suggested that he may back tax relief for start-
up investments. The  Daily Telegraph  reported today that the
Treasury is studying a 50 percent break for start-up investments
from next year, without saying where it got the information.  “We’re looking at whether we could have a higher rate of
tax relief for the first stage of money, the initial sums,”
Osborne said. “We will have to consult on that and work up the
details.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 