-- 
Cathay Pacific New CEO Slosar Faces Japan Quake Fallout, China Challengers

-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 
2011-03-28T13:38:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/cathay-pacific-new-ceo-slosar-faces-japan-quake-fallout-china-challengers.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ’s John Slosar will face rising competition in China, higher fuel prices
and a slowdown in earthquake-hit Japan when he takes over as
chief executive officer this week.  Slosar, 54, steps into the top job at  Asia ’s second-largest
listed carrier by sales as a nuclear crisis saps  travel demand 
in Japan, a market accounting for about 8 percent of Hong Kong-
based Cathay’s revenue, according to a Daiwa Institute of
Research estimate. Fuel prices have also surged 27 percent this
year in Singapore trading as protests in the Middle East and
North Africa stoke concerns about oil supplies.  “It will be very hard for Cathay to repeat last year’s
profit,” said Julius Yeo, a Singapore-based analyst at  Frost &
Sullivan . “Slosar has very big shoes to fill.”  Slosar will replace Tony Tyler who is leaving Cathay on
March 31 after almost four years as CEO to become head of the
 International Air Transport Association , an industry group. Last
year, Tyler almost tripled net income to HK$14 billion ($1.8
billion) because of a rebound in demand following the end of the
global recession and the sales of stakes in affiliates. Net
income this year may fall to HK$9.3 billion based on the average
of 17 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Slosar will get an annual salary and allowances of HK$5.5
million ($710,000), plus bonuses and housing, according to a
March 2 statement. He has worked for Swire Group, Cathay’s
parent, since 1980, including being the airline’s chief
operating officer since July 2007.  Tokyo  Travel  Travel to Tokyo has plunged since a March 11 earthquake
crippled a nuclear-power plant north of the city, triggering
fears about leaking radiation. The number of foreigners arriving
at the capital’s Narita International Airport,  Japan ’s main
international gateway, from overseas plunged 60 percent from a
year earlier through March 22, according to the Immigration
Bureau of Japan. The nation accounts for 6.5 percent of global
air traffic and 10 percent of sales, according to  IATA .  “Inevitably, we are seeing softer demand to Tokyo,”
Carolyn Leung, a Cathay spokeswoman, said in a March 25 e-mailed
reply to questions. “We expect several months of weakness with
a recovery toward the summer, but there are still a lot of
variables.”  Cathay, also the world’s largest international air-cargo
carrier, closed little changed at HK$18.36 in  Hong Kong  trading
today. It has dropped 14 percent this year, the third-worst
performance in the  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  Last year, it was the
fourth-best, rising 48 percent.  The stock has dropped 5.7 percent since Tyler became CEO in
July 2007, outperforming  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) ’s 24 percent
decline and the Bloomberg Asia Pacific Airlines Index’s 16
percent fall. Tyler saw Cathay through the global recession,
spent billions of dollars on Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. planes
and boosted ties with affiliate  Air China Ltd. (753) , the nation’s
largest international carrier.  China Demand  Cathay plans to increase both cargo and passenger capacity
about 10 percent this year as a rebounding global economy and
growth in China spurs demand. The airline is starting flights to
 Abu Dhabi  and  Chicago , and it is due to take delivery of 15 new
planes this year, including six freighters.  “The fundamental growth picture of Greater  China  and the
integration of China with the rest of the world is going to
carry on,” Slosar said in a March 10 interview. “We’re
investing behind that.”  The airline announced 27 plane orders and leases on March 9,
raising its backlog to 91 new aircraft for delivery by 2019. The
carrier had a group fleet of 166 as of March 25, it said by e-
mail. It plans to retire its 21 Boeing 747-400s and 11 Airbus
SAS A340-300s by decade’s end.  China likely will be the world’s fastest-growing market for
international  air travel  through 2014, according to IATA. Cathay
last year boosted passenger numbers 9 percent to 26.8 million.  Business-Class Refit  The airline is spending HK$1 billion on new business-class
cabins and services as Emirates Airline and Singapore Air woo
passengers with the double-decker Airbus A380 and U.S. carriers
add China flights.  Cathay also faces more competition from within China and
Hong Kong, where it gets about half of sales. Hong Kong Airlines
Ltd., backed by the government of China’s Hainan province,
agreed this month to buy 38 twin-aisle Boeing planes to boost
its network.  Mainland Carriers  The three biggest mainland carriers --  Air China Ltd. (601111) ,
China Southern Airlines Co. and China Eastern Airlines Corp. --
also are expanding. Beijing-based Air China, the world’s largest
carrier by market value, plans to boost its group fleet to more
than 700 planes by 2015 from about 400, Chairman Kong Dong said
earlier this month.  “China is a growing market but there’s huge competition,”
Daiwa’s Kelvin Lau said. “The three Chinese airlines have big
fleets and huge capacities, much larger than Cathay. In the
future, more travelers may choose to fly via Shanghai or
Beijing.”  Cathay is cooperating with Air China to tap mainland sales,
through steps including codeshares. The two, which own stakes in
each other, are also forming a cargo venture that will give
Cathay access to freight hubs in Shanghai and Beijing.  Cargo generates about 30 percent of Cathay’s sales, helped
by exports from China’s  Pearl River Delta  neighboring Hong Kong.
The rising number of mainland millionaires is also boosting
inbound shipments of  luxury goods  and fresh seafood.  Slosar, who studied at  Columbia University  in  New York  and
the University of Cambridge, has worked for Swire Group’s
aviation division in Hong Kong, the U.S. and  Thailand . He became
managing director of plane-maintenance unit Hong Kong Aircraft
Engineering Co. in 1996. Two years later, he was appointed
managing director of Swire’s beverages arm, before becoming
Cathay’s COO in 2007.  “He tends to be bullish and optimistic,” Lau said. “He’s
very enthusiastic and would be a good leader.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  