-- 
Chile Expects More ‘Huaso’ Bond Sales in Coming Months, Larrain Says

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-03-27T01:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/chile-expects-more-huaso-bond-sales-in-coming-months-larrain-says.html
Chile ’s government expects foreign
entities to sell bonds in the South American country in the
coming months after it relaxed rules in a bid to deepen local
capital markets, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said.  The  Inter-American Development Bank  and private companies
are among entities to show interest in so-called huaso bonds,
peso-denominated notes issued by foreigners, Larrain said today
in an interview at the IDB’s annual meeting in Calgary.  “Over the next couple of months we will probably see
some” issuances, he said. “We are seeing a lot of interest.
The IDB is one example, but there is a lot of examples of
private companies.”  The administration of President Sebastian Pinera wants to
make Chile a financial hub in Latin America. Authorities are
expanding the possible universe of foreign issuers to states,
companies from emerging markets and multilateral organizations,
Larrain told reporters in Santiago on March 10.  Under the changes, entities from countries with at least
three sovereign credit ratings will be able to sell bonds
denominated in Chilean pesos. Previously, authorization was
limited to entities that traded in exchanges recognized by the
local credit rating regulator. Huaso is the Chilean term for
cowboy.  Only three peso-denominated bonds, totaling less than $500
million, have been issued by foreigners since they were allowed
to do so in 2006, Larrain said March 10. The most recent was
America Movil SAB, Latin America’s largest wireless phone
operator, which sold $198 million of 25-year inflation-linked
notes at a yield of 4 percent in May. Banco de Credito del  Peru 
sold bonds in 2009.  “I would not be surprised to see a lot of Brazilian
companies issuing bonds in Chile,” Larrain said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  