-- 
China, Energy Stocks to Lead Asia's 2011 Gains, Credit Suisse Survey Shows

-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y
-- 
2011-03-28T03:13:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/china-energy-stocks-to-lead-asia-s-2011-gains-credit-suisse-survey-shows.html
Chinese stocks and energy companies
are expected to lead advances by Asian equities this year,
according to a survey of participants attending a  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  investor conference in Hong Kong last week.  The worst performances may come from India and  Japan , said
a statement on the poll results posted on Credit Suisse’s
website on March 25. The MSCI  Asia  excluding Japan Index will
rise between 10 percent and 20 percent in 2011, according to 46
percent of the survey’s respondents. The gauge, which tracks
more than 600 companies, has fallen 1.6 percent this year, after
a 17 percent climb in 2010.  “People are broadly bullish,” Jahanzeb Naseer, Credit
Suisse’s Hong Kong-based product manager for Asian research,
said in a phone interview on March 25. “The risks are on oil
going up, the Middle East, and the Europe debt crisis.”  A 15 percent surge in crude this year amid mounting
political turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa has stoked
inflation concerns in countries from China to  India , which have
both raised  interest rates  in 2011. Speculation mounted last
week that  Portugal  would join Ireland and  Greece  in seeking
bailout packages after lawmakers rejected budget cuts proposed
by Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates .  Credit Suisse’s 14th annual Asian Investment Conference
attracted more than 2,000 investors and delegates from over 270
companies, the bank’s  statement  said. Results from the bank’s
poll indicate some investors think concerns related to Chinese
measures to curb inflation may be overdone, Naseer said.  Exceeding Target  The Shanghai Composite Index has climbed 6.8 percent this
quarter, the best performance among Asia’s biggest equity
markets. The gauge is still 5.1 percent below a seven-month high
reached Nov. 8. Annual inflation reached 4.9 percent in February,
slowing from a two-year high of 5.1 percent in November. Policy
makers have boosted borrowing costs three times since the start
of 2010 while raising banks’ reserve requirements nine times,
including an increase on March 18.  “The general vibe is that actually inflation is not going
to be that much of a worry, that in the second half of the year,
inflation concerns are going to wane,” Naseer said. “A lot of
people are thinking that because of tightening policies growth
is going to be considerably lower. It’s going to be a little
lower, but it’s still going to grow in about the 9 percent range.
That’s a pretty good scenario for  China .”  ICBC Credit Suisse Asset Management Co., a venture between
the largest bank in China and  Switzerland ’s second-largest
lender, is “bullish” on China’s stocks because equity prices are
inexpensive and the government is approaching the end of its
tightening policies, portfolio manager Hao Kang said in a phone
interview today.  ‘Growth Hiccup’  Poll respondents favored energy companies amid optimism
higher crude prices will bolster earnings, Naseer said. Gauges
of material and energy shares in the MSCI Asia excluding Japan
Index rose more than 4 percent in 2011, the most of 10 groups.  Crude futures in  New York  touched $106.95 a barrel on March
7, the highest intraday price since September 2008.  Oil prices 
have gained 32 percent in the past year.  For oil, “$100-$120 a barrel is what markets can absorb
without having a huge growth hiccup,” Naseer said. “Our view
is that oil shouldn’t go up much beyond where it is now. There
are expectations of easy spare capacity in  Saudi Arabia ” that
can help relieve any supply constraints, he said.  Discount Valuations  The MSCI gauge climbed 4.4 percent last week, the most
since November, as Japan made progress stabilizing reactors at a
nuclear plant crippled after the nation’s worst earthquake. The
gauge trades for 12.7 times estimated profit, down from a
multiple of 14.6 times on Dec. 31. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average
rose 3.6 percent last week, after a 14 percent slump the
previous two weeks.  “Many of the investors are looking to get into the markets
sensing that valuations are overly discounted,” he said.
“However if the yen continues to strengthen, that’s not good
for the Japanese market.” Japan’s currency appreciated to a
post-World War II high against the dollar on March 17.  Japan will be the worst performing market in the Asia
Pacific region this year, according to 19 percent of
participants in the Credit Suisse poll, while 26 percent picked
India amid inflation concerns.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, has
lost 8.3 percent this year, the most among major Asian gauges,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 