-- 
Chinese Vase Zooms From $800 to $18 Million in Record N.Y. Sale

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-03-27T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/chinese-vase-zooms-from-800-to-18-million-in-new-york-s-record-asia-sale.html
Wealthy Chinese buyers competing
for their cultural heritage pushed New York’s week of Asian art
to a record, topped by a delicate pear-shaped Chinese vase,
estimated to fetch just $800 to $1,200.  The lot soared to $18 million, the most expensive in a
dozen Asian Week auctions at  Sotheby’s (BID)  and Christie’s
International. Together, the auction houses took in a record
$202 million, 56 percent above the previous high in 2007.  Sotheby’s described the modestly-estimated vase, decorated
with birds and peonies, as of “probably Republican period”
(early 20th-century). Yet it had a Qianlong seal and anything of
that 1736-1795 era commands higher prices, said dealers.  “It’s outstanding if it’s genuine,” said Giuseppe Eskenazi, one of the leading dealers in Chinese art.  China  overtook the U.S. as the world’s biggest auction
market for fine art in 2010, according to research company
 Artprice , benefiting from the support of its government. Last
week’s sales attracted collectors from mainland China,  Hong Kong 
and  Taiwan .  “There seems to be an extraordinary amount of cash out
there,”  Andrew Kahane , a New York dealer specializing in
Chinese art, said. “Chinese buyers want to be seen spending a
lot of money. They want to be seen setting world records.
Whatever was collected by Emperor Qianlong, they want. He was
like the Queen Victoria of China.”  Christie’s $117 million sales were led by a carved,
celadon-glazed Qianlong vase that fetched $7.9 million, almost
twice its high presale estimate of $4 million. The price was an
auction record for Qing-dynasty monochrome porcelain. The prices
include buyers’ premium; the estimates do not.  Trading Barbarians  Christie’s  also sold a pair of 400-year-old Japanese
folding screens, titled  “Southern Barbarians Come to Trade,” 
for $4.8 million against a high presale estimate of $4 million.  Among  Sotheby’s  $85 million sales, an Indian canopy
decorated with at least 500,000 pearls and 200 diamonds took in
$2.3 million, though this fell below the expected range of $3
million to $5 million.  The demand for Qianlong-era artworks was also shown on
March 26 when a scroll painting sold in  France  for 22.1 million
euros ($31 million). In November, a Qianlong vase fetched 51.6
million pounds (then $83.2 million) at a Bainbridges sale on the
outskirts of  London .  “If you project three to five years from now, it’s not
hard to imagine that Chinese classical art would be on par with
such major auction categories as Impressionist and Modern art,”
Larry Warsh, a New York-based collector of Chinese contemporary
art, said in an interview. “Don’t underestimate Chinese
collectors, the building of their wealth and their passion to
collect.”  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 