-- 
Companies Accelerate Spending as U.S. Productivity Bypasses Jobs

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-27T23:15:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/companies-accelerating-equipment-spending-with-productivity-bypassing-jobs.html
Cummins Inc. (CMI)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  are
accelerating equipment purchases to boost productivity,
reinforcing an unprecedented gap between capital spending and
employment in the U.S. that’s restraining a labor-market
rebound.  Corporate investment will rise 11 percent this year as
sales pick up, following a 15 percent gain in 2010, according to
“Man vs. Machine,” a Feb. 2 report from Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. Employment will grow just 1.7 percent, after a
0.7 percent increase last year, the study projects.  Inventory rebuilding, low borrowing costs and government
policies that include a new tax break on equipment purchases are
powerful spurs for capital spending, says Neil Dutta, the Bank
of America economist who wrote the report. The job market lacks
such drivers and will form a “mediocre” underpinning for
household spending, the biggest part of gross domestic product,
he said.  “Machines have the upper hand,” Dutta said in a telephone
interview from  New York . “You see this huge pickup in  capital
spending , but there isn’t a meaningful increase in employment;
it’s being grudgingly pulled along. The consumer is not going to
perform the way people expect.”  The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing index
has risen for seven consecutive months, surging in February to
the highest level since May 2004. While the labor market is
“improving gradually,” unemployment remains “elevated,”
according to the  Federal Reserve . The jobless rate may hold at
8.9 percent in March for a second month, the lowest since April
2009, based on the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
ahead of Labor Department figures due April 1.  ‘Very Deep Jobs Hole’  Even if payrolls rise more than economists’ median
estimates of 195,000 this month, that’s “nowhere near the kind
of growth we need to see,” said Heidi Shierholz, an economist
at the Washington-based  Economic Policy Institute . “We’re still
near the bottom of a very deep jobs hole from which we’re just
starting to climb out.” More than 8 million positions were cut
as a result of the recession that began in December 2007.  Investors are focusing on a factory-driven recovery, with
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Supercomposite Machinery Index rising
44 percent since March 2010, compared with a 13 percent increase
in the broader  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   “The capital-spending boom will continue this year and
into next year,” helped by emerging markets, said Robert Baur,
chief global economist at Principal Global Investors, which
manages $232.4 billion. “Companies underinvested to such an
extent and for so long that there’s a great deal of catch-up to
be done.”  More Gains  Baur, based in Des Moines, Iowa, said investors have
opportunities for more gains this year in technology, energy,
manufacturing and basic materials including commodities and
mining. Principal Global owns shares of  Eaton Corp. (ETN) ,  AGCO Corp. (AGCO) ,
and  Joy Global Inc. (JOYG) , which have risen an average of 55 percent
in the past year.  The man-machine gap is evident at Cummins, a maker of
diesel truck engines and generators. The Columbus, Indiana-based
manufacturer has said it may lift capital spending this year to
as much as $650 million, or 79 percent higher than 2010’s $364
million. In the same period, it will add about 2,500 workers, a
15 percent increase to its U.S. workforce of 16,500.  Menomonee Falls , Wisconsin-based Kohl’s is pursuing
initiatives to reduce labor input as part of an increase in
capital spending this year to $1 billion from $761 million in
2010. The department-store retailer is installing electronic
signs in 500 locations, up from 100 in 2010, in a program that
will cover the entire chain by the holiday season of 2012.  Payroll Savings  This means “payroll savings, because we don’t have to
change several thousand signs in each of our stores anytime we
run a new promotional event,” Chief Executive Officer Kevin Mansell said on a Feb. 24 conference call.  Some companies are shifting to “more flexibility in
employment,” which means temporary staffing firms, especially
those in information-technology and engineering, may outperform
this year, said Tobey Sommer, an analyst at SunTrust Robinson
Humphrey Inc. He recommends Tampa, Florida-based  Kforce Inc. (KFRC) ,
whose stock has gained 15 percent in the past 12 months, and  On
Assignment Inc. (ASGN) , in Calabasas,  California , which climbed 19
percent.  “The firmer footing for the economy is real, but it’s all
relative,” said Sommer, in Nashville,  Tennessee . Businesses
still have a “muted desire to hire,” and “temporary hiring is
a hedge against uncertainty.”  Rising Productivity  This helps explain why productivity last year climbed 3.9
percent, the most since 2002, while labor costs fell 1.5 percent
after a 1.6 percent drop in 2009, the first back-to-back
declines since 1962-63, government data showed.  “At this point, productivity growth is bad news for
employment, though in the long term it’s good for the economy,”
Shierholz said. “The need to do more to create jobs is an open
and shut case, but politically, it’s not going to happen.” The
debate in Congress has shifted to the deficit, so “the job-
market recovery is going to be a long slog.”  David Bowers, a managing director at London-based Absolute
Strategy Research Ltd., is more optimistic. As demand
strengthens, “corporate spending is going to be the heart of
the recovery” and will unleash “favorable second-round effects
in the labor market,” he said. “When that happens, people will
be surprised at what a powerful effect it’ll have on consumer
finances and  consumer spending .”  ‘Back in the Saddle’  Corporations hit by the financial crisis recoiled to a
greater extent than ever before and “need to get back in the
saddle” to take advantage of record amounts of cash generated
by healthy profits and faster growth overseas, he said.  The economy already has added jobs for five consecutive
months, and economists predict another gain for March. Small
businesses also are joining the transition. Payroll-accounting
manager  Paychex Inc. (PAYX)  said March 24 that checks per client rose
the most in at least two years for the quarter ended Feb. 28.
Most of the Rochester, New York, company’s customers have fewer
than 20 people on staff.  Building momentum still may take time. Finance chiefs in a
quarterly survey released March 9 by  Duke University  and CFO
Magazine trimmed hiring intentions for 2011 to a 1.2 percent
gain from 2 percent in the previous survey, while boosting
estimates for capital-spending growth to 12 percent from 8.9
percent.  ‘Unprecedented’ Gap  Even though employment tends to lag behind investment early
in recoveries, BofA’s Dutta said the current gap is
“unprecedented” in the postwar era: Capital expenditures are
expanding at an almost 14 percent pace, while job growth stays
below zero, according to calculations he based on a six-quarter
annualized change from the ends of the recessions.  In addition, the “unintended consequences” of policy
changes indicate the government may “undercut its own principal
aim of  job creation ,” he said.  While the tax bill President Barack Obama signed Dec. 17
allows businesses to write off 100 percent of some purchases in
2011, there’s no similar incentive to speed up hiring. The Fed’s
commitment to keep its benchmark interest rate near zero for an
extended period also facilitates lower-cost financing for
machines.  The administration’s goal to double overseas sales of
American-made goods is another plus for investment over hiring,
Dutta said, since the U.S. export sector is capital intensive
rather than labor intensive.  ‘Doing Fine’  “The policy environment is incentivizing firms to limit
job creation,” he said. “The government doesn’t need to
stimulate capex, which is doing fine on its own, compared with
sectors that are impaired, like the labor market.”  Dutta predicts consumer spending will rise between 2
percent and 2.5 percent this year, below the average 3.5 percent
gain in the decade leading up to the recession.  Many employers are waiting to see how changes in health-
care will affect them, said Joe Trauger, vice president of
human-resources policy at the National Association of
Manufacturers in  Washington . These and other regulations are
“pitfalls that businesses could unknowingly fall into,” and
the uncertainty “creates difficulty for hiring,” he said.  Even so, rising sales are causing companies to rebuild
inventories after slashing them by a record amount during the
recession, which ended June 2009. There’s plenty of room to
expand: Machinery and software assets are growing at the slowest
pace since World War II, and capital expenses as a share of GDP
still are below pre-slump levels.  Beating Estimates  The focus on equipment and software purchases is benefiting
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest U.S. maker of computer-
memory chips, whose second-quarter sales and profit beat
analysts’ estimates.  “The demand signals from the majority of our customers are
improving,” Steve Appleton, the Boise, Idaho-based company’s
chief executive officer, said on a March 23 conference call.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the world’s largest
publicly traded copper producer, will boost investment to $2.5
billion this year, a 79 percent surge from $1.4 billion last
year, as it restocks after cutbacks in the last half of 2008 and
through at least half of 2009 that included “cannibalizing
equipment,” Chief Executive Officer Richard Adkerson said on a
Jan. 20 conference call.  Meanwhile, the Phoenix, Arizona-based company will add
1,200 workers in the U.S. this year to ramp up mining at three
locations -- a 12 percent gain in North American staff from
9,700 at the end of 2010.  “In terms of priority, it’s capex, capex, capex, capex,”
Adkerson said in response to an analyst’s question about how
Freeport-McMoRan will use its cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sho Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  