-- 
Fukushima’s Cooling Efforts Are Delayed by Spilled Water

-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   A k i k o   N i s h i m a e
-- 
2011-03-27T19:39:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/cooling-at-two-of-japan-s-nuclear-reactors-delayed-as-radiation-increases.html
Efforts to repair the cooling
systems at the No. 2 and No. 3 reactors at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant are being delayed by the need to drain
radioactive water from the floors,  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.
said.  Tests found radiation levels at 100,000 times the normal
level in the No. 2 reactor at the plant, and the reactor may be
leaking water, Vice President Sakae Muto said at a briefing
broadcast on the Internet.  The company plans to put the radioactive water into
condenser tanks. Those tanks are probably already full, so crews
must find a way to drain them, company officials said at a
briefing today.  “I think it is high,” Muto said of the radiation level in
the pool of water at the No. 2 unit.  The cooling pool at the No. 2 reactor, used to store spent
nuclear fuel, appears to be full of water, the company said. The
pool at the No. 4 reactor is likely full, the company said. The
pools need cooling water to keep the rods from melting and
releasing radiation into the air.  The radiation level at the No. 2 reactor was measured at
1,000 millisieverts an hour,  Japan ’s nuclear safety agency said.
That’s higher than the dose that would cause vomiting, hair loss
and diarrhea, according to the  World Nuclear Association .  “They’re finding quite high levels of radiation fields,
which is impeding their progress dealing with the situation,”
said Richard Wakeford, an expert in radiation epidemiology at
the U.K.’s Dalton Nuclear Institute in Manchester. At reactor 2,
“you’d have a lot of difficulty putting anyone in there.”  Radiation Leaks  Tepco said it needs to drain the water to determine where
it came from. Muto said it is possible it came from the fuel in
the reactor.  Tepco initially said the radioactivity in the No. 2 reactor
was caused by iodine-134, and was 100 times higher than the last
report. The company corrected that information at its news
conference, without specifying what element was causing the
radiation levels.  The company will “make our greatest effort not to repeat
such a mistake,” Muto said.  Efforts to gain control over the damaged plant have been
hampered by radiation leaks, forcing repair work to be suspended
and engineers to rotate shifts.  Skin Burns  Two men who were exposed to radiation had “significant”
skin contamination on their legs, the  International Atomic
Energy Agency  said.  “In the first eight days you were in a cycle where you’re
trying to deal with the decay heat,” Robin Grimes, a professor
of materials physics at Imperial College in  London , said by
phone. “Now, 90 percent of that energy has decayed away, so
there is no longer a risk of something suddenly happening;
things are going to change much more slowly.”  Soil samples have been taken and will be tested for
plutonium, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said at a
briefing in Tokyo.  “I’ve said the situation won’t immediately improve, and
high radiation water is one of the unexpected things that I had
said might occur,” Edano said at a briefing in Tokyo yesterday.
“We want to continue cooling, and establish a direction toward
ending the situation.”  Water Concern  The number of dead and missing from the March 11
earthquake, tsunami and subsequent aftershocks reached 27,110.
The government is struggling to help hundreds of thousands of
people left homeless or without essential services or food.  The tsunami disabled backup cooling systems at the six-
reactor Fukushima complex, leading to fires and explosions at
some of the reactors.  Radiation in drinking water was found in one out of three
Tokyo water purification plants based on samples taken
yesterday, the Tokyo metropolitan government said. Two out of
three facilities detected radioactive levels the previous day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 Mlee326@blooomberg.net 
Akiko Nishimae in New York at 
 anishimae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 