-- 
Cotton Rally Peaking as Farms Replenish Stocks With Record Crop

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y ,   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   C h r i s   P r e n t i c e
-- 
2011-03-28T19:23:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/cotton-rally-peaking-as-record-crop-means-first-stockpile-gain-since-2007.html
The rally that drove cotton prices
to the highest since America was recovering from the Civil War
is ending as farmers from  Texas  to New South Wales plant record
crops and replenish stockpiles for the first time since 2007.  Cotton will drop 51 percent to $1 a pound by Dec. 31,
according to the median in a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts and
traders. Hedge funds are already cutting bets on higher prices
by the most in three years. Output may rise 11 percent to 127.5
million bales in the year that starts Aug. 1, three times faster
than a 3 percent gain in demand to 120 million bales, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture estimates. One 480-pound bale is
enough for 215 pairs of jeans.  “We have had quite a nice run, and I don’t see it
sustaining,” said John Stephenson, who helps manage more than
C$2 billion ($2 billion) at First Asset Investment Management
Inc. in Toronto. “More acreage will be dedicated to cotton, and
in a scenario where consumers are facing higher food and fuel
prices, clothing will take a back seat.”  Cotton rose to $2.197 on March 7, the highest in 140 years
of trading in New York, after flooding in Australia and Pakistan
and freezes in  China  ruined crops.  Adidas AG (ADS) , the second-largest
sporting-goods maker, said this month that cotton was a cost
threatening margins, and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
biggest retailer, paid more for garments including jeans.  Food Costs  Farmers are responding by planting more cotton, which may
come at the expense of corn and soybeans, First Asset’s
Stephenson said. Corn gained 79 percent since July 1 and
soybeans climbed 50 percent, driving global food costs to a
record, the United Nations estimates. An extra 44 million people
were driven into “extreme” poverty since June, according to
the  World Bank , and riots spread across North Africa and the
Middle East, toppling leaders in Egypt and Tunisia.  While March 7 marked the peak, it’s much less than in
previous decades. In 1973, cotton jumped to the highest in at
least 14 years to 99 cents, the  equivalent  of $4.92 today,
according to a calculator on the website of the Federal Reserve
Bank of  Minneapolis .  Cotton closed at $2.0449 on March 25, after surging 178
percent since mid-July, the most among the 24 commodities in the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index. The raw-materials gauge climbed 42
percent, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 20 percent and
Treasuries lost 0.2 percent, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index shows. Cotton slumped by the exchange maximum of 7 cents,
or 3.4 percent, to settle at $1.9749 a pound today.  Money Managers  Hedge funds  and other money managers cut bets on higher
prices by 64 percent from a September peak, the steepest drop
since 2008. Their wagers declined for seven consecutive weeks,
the longest stretch since at least June 2006, and total 29,185
contracts, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
One contract equals 50,000 pounds.  Futures anticipate a drop to $1.2792 by December, according
to ICE Futures U.S. data. Costs won’t fall to the $1 predicted
in the Bloomberg survey until October 2012, the data show.  Even $1 would still be 64 percent higher than the 10-year
average of 61.16 cents. Stockpiles in warehouses monitored by
ICE Futures U.S. plunged 81 percent since June and in October
fell to the lowest level since at least August 2002.  “Global plantings are set to expand impressively this
year,” said Gary Raines, an economist at FCStone Fibers &
Textiles in Nashville,  Tennessee . “Even if this production
overshadows mill demand, the gap may not be enough to rebuild
world inventories enough to pull prices down to their long-term
average in just one marketing year.”  Extreme Weather  Prices could still rally to $2.30 by June because supply is
so scarce and more “weather problems or other external
catastrophes” could mean a high of $2.90, said John Flanagan,
president of Flanagan Trading Corp. in Fuquay-Varina,  North
Carolina .  Demand is still strengthening. In the year ending July 31,
China will use 17.5 million more bales than it grows, the USDA
estimates.  China’s economy  will expand 9.5 percent this year,
more than three times the growth of the U.S. and the  euro zone ,
according to the median of as many as 68 economists’ forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  While farmers will grow more cotton this year, not all of
it may reach global markets.  India , the second-biggest producer
after China, limited cotton-yarn exports in December because of
concern about domestic shortages. It eased some of those
restrictions last month.  Farm Profit  The same surge in prices that is helping boost U.S. farm
profit by 20 percent to a record $94.7 billion is hurting
manufacturers, retailers and consumers.  The “headwinds on costings, particularly on cotton out of
 Asia , will affect everyone,” Myron E. Ullman, the chairman and
chief executive officer of J.C. Penney Co., the third-biggest
U.S. department-store chain, said March 9.  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the largest
U.S. apparel chain, is facing similar issues, Chairman and CEO
Glenn K. Murphy said on a conference call the same day.  Raw materials, labor and transport costs are all creating
“a gross margin headwind,” Herbert Hainer, CEO of
Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Adidas, said on a conference call
March 2.  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest sporting-goods firm,
began to see the impact in the third quarter, Chief Financial
Officer Don Blair said on a call two weeks later.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Arkansas, already paid more
for some cotton garments including jeans, and “we’re told that
by later this year, there will be substantially more”
increases, William Simon, President and CEO of Wal-Mart U.S.,
said on a conference call March 10.  Textile Makers  Some U.S. textile makers are canceling orders or using more
synthetic fibers on concern they won’t be able to pass costs to
customers, said Cass Johnson, president of the Washington-based
National Council of Textile Organizations, which has more than
80 companies as members.  Cotton’s share of the global textile market will shrink to
about 30 percent by 2020 from about 37 percent as mills switch
to synthetics, according to the  International Cotton Advisory
Committee . The Washington-based group has 43 member countries.  Best Western International Inc., the world’s biggest hotel
chain by rooms, said it’s paying 53 percent more for towels than
it did a year ago. Orders for towels and sheets can take as long
as two months to fill, compared with two weeks normally, the
company said in an e-mailed response to questions.  In the year that begins Aug. 1, global cotton plantings
will increase by 7.9 percent to 36 million hectares (89 million
acres), the most in 16 years, according to the committee.  Biggest Exporter  Production in the U.S., the biggest exporter, will rise 6.6
percent to 19.5 million bales in the next crop year, according
to USDA estimates. Indian output may climb to a record,
according to Bhadresh Trading Corp., the nation’s top exporter.
Output in  Australia , the fourth-biggest shipper, may also surge
to an all-time high, the Australian Bureau of Agricultural &
Resource Economics & Sciences forecast March 1.  By the end of the next crop year, in July 2012, global
stockpiles may have expanded by 18 percent to 50 million bales,
according to the USDA.  “The prices are exaggerated, and the shortage in the
market has been overstated,” said Christoph Eibl, co-founder of
Zug, Switzerland-based Tiberius Group, a  fund manager  overseeing
more than $2 billion. “The market has been pushed up a lot by
speculators and this is not sustainable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Prentice in  New York  at 
 cprentice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 