-- 
Cuomo Reaches Deal With Top New York Legislators to Close $10 Billion Gap

-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 
2011-03-28T13:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/cuomo-new-york-lawmakers-set-budget-that-clears-deficit-has-no-new-taxes.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and
top lawmakers agreed on a budget that eliminates next year’s $10
billion deficit by sticking close to the governor’s proposals
for spending cuts without new taxes, they said.  The  agreement  for the fiscal year that begins April 1 would
add $250 million of spending to Cuomo’s proposed $132.5 billion
 plan . Even with the increase, total outlays would decline 2
percent, the first such drop since at least 1995. Lawmakers, who
Cuomo said faced a choice between accepting his plan or shutting
down government, may be on a path to achieve New York’s first
early budget since 1983.  Cuomo, a 53-year-old Democrat, made the announcement
yesterday in Albany, the state capital, after meeting with
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver , a Democrat from  Manhattan , and
Senate President  Dean Skelos , a Republican from  Long Island .  “Well done, my friends,” he said as he reached for
handshakes at the end of the press conference.  The agreement “transforms the way we do business,” Cuomo
said. Lawmakers agreed with Cuomo’s proposals to limit future
spending growth on Medicaid to U.S. medical-cost inflation,
starting in April 2012. School aid would grow no faster than
personal income among the state’s residents.  Cuts to City  Silver said he expects Democrats in the Assembly will
support the budget, even though they lost their bid to extend an
8.97 percent tax on millionaires due to expire Dec. 31. Cuomo
and Skelos opposed any new taxes.  About 71 percent of  New York  voters favored the
millionaire’s tax, and 67 percent said they would rather
lawmakers accept Cuomo’s budget than allow state government to
shut down, according to a Siena Research Institute  poll  released
today. The poll of 802 voters was conducted March 20 to March 23
and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage
points, the Loudonville, New York-based institute said.  Cuomo, who was elected in November with 61 percent of the
vote, says he has followed the same  policies  he outlined during
his election campaign.  New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said the plan cuts
state aid “more than ever before” and that the amounts added
in the agreement “are merely a fraction of the $600 million
necessary to avoid additional layoffs and cuts in the city’s
budget.” The state granted no revenue-sharing money to the city
for the second consecutive year, while aid to other cities was
reduced 3 percent.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, owner of Bloomberg News.  Medicaid, Schools  Medicaid and aid to local schools, the two biggest parts of
the state budget, are expected to increase about 4 percent under
the new formulas, Cuomo has said. Next year, before the controls
apply, Cuomo’s  budget  called for Medicaid and school aid
spending to fall $2.85 billion each from levels called for by
existing law.  Education  aid in the coming school year would have
been $1.5 billion below last year’s level.  The agreement calls for the elimination of 3,700 prison
beds, while adding about $272 million to Cuomo’s proposed aid to
local school districts and other education programs, and smaller
amounts for senior citizen centers, higher education and other
programs.  Budget Director Robert Megna said no new total amounts for
state spending or the size of the budget were available, and it
wasn’t yet known exactly how the state would pay for the
increased outlays. Cuomo’s budget, including federal aid, was
 2.6 percent  lower than last year, a decline that was trimmed to
2 percent, according to the announcement of the budget plan.  Revenue ‘Looking Good’  “Revenue right now is looking good enough that we probably
finance the increase from that,” Megna said.  While a budget agreement is in place, state officials are
still negotiating with labor unions for about 130,000 workers
whose contracts expire March 31. If unions don’t agree to
savings of $450 million, Cuomo has said he may fire 9,800
employees.  Other issues still to be resolved by lawmakers and Cuomo
include passage of a state-imposed cap on local property taxes
and extension of rent-control laws for  New York City  and nearby
counties. Cuomo favors both measures. Republicans in the Senate
have already approved a cap on property-tax growth at the lower
of 2 percent or inflation, while Democrats want rent controls to
remain and be enhanced.  Paterson’s Ploy  Whether the Legislature approves the budget early, before
the March 31 end of the fiscal year, depends on how soon bills
are drafted and printed. Last year’s spending plan wasn’t
approved until Aug. 4, after former Governor  David Paterson 
pushed through bills that lawmakers had to approve or face a
government shutdown.  A “message of necessity” by the governor may be required
to get approval before March 31, Cuomo said. That action would
remove the requirement that bills be on lawmakers’ desks at
least three days, or parts of days, before voting.  Removing the property-tax cap and rent controls from the
budget negotiations “has been a huge help getting not only an
on-time budget, but an early budget,” said Senator George Maziarz, a Republican whose  district  stretches from Niagara
Falls to Rochester.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Quint in  Albany , New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  