-- 
EasyJet Chief Targets Air France, BA Business Passengers to Raise Profit

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-03-28T17:20:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/easyjet-chief-targets-air-france-ba-business-passengers.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  Chief Executive Officer
Carolyn McCall is targeting clients of British Airways and Air-
France-KLM Group as Europe’s second-biggest discount carrier
seeks to boost its share of the region’s business-travel market.  EasyJet is increasing daily flights on routes from key
bases in London, Paris and Geneva, the CEO said yesterday in an
interview during its inaugural flight to Amman, Jordan. The
airline will also roll out flexible tickets, which have been
tested since November, across the network this summer in an
effort to make itself more attractive to corporate passengers.  “We do leisure and we do it really well,” said McCall,
who took over in July. “The business traveler proposition is
another kind of product. It’s quite a different thing. For the
first time ever, EasyJet has two product propositions.”  The Luton, England-based airline has also put together a
15-strong sales team to target businesses and travel bookers in
its U.K. home market and the rest of  Europe .  EasyJet advanced 3.4 percent to 335.6 pence today in
London, reducing the decline this year to 24 percent.  With 60 percent of EasyJet passengers embarking on the
continent, McCall said the airline plans to take on full-service
carriers such as Air  France , as well as U.K. rival International
Consolidate Airline Group SA’s British Airways.  Europe Competition  “We are not so UK-centric to think that we only compete
with BA,” she said. “We compete with Air France out of France,
we compete with KLM out of Amsterdam, so we compete with all of
those carriers.”  McCall estimates that business passengers make up about 18
percent of EasyJet’s total and said she wants to boost that to
21 percent. Yields, a measure of fares, are as high as 20
percent for some business customers as they tend to book later
and pay for Easyjet options such as priority boarding.  McCall in November began selling tickets offering
flexibility to switch flights up to two hours before departure.  EasyJet, founded in 1995 as a two-plane airline offering
flights from  London  to  Scotland , still has a long way to go in
catching up to the legacy carriers in terms of offering same-day
frequencies, said  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure Gordon
in London with a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  “You have to ramp up frequencies,” said the analyst, who
reckons EasyJet has five or more daily flights on just 2 percent
of its network, compared with 53 percent at British Airways, the
biggest U.K. carrier. “I don’t think that other things are going
to have a massive impact on demand for business passengers.”  Share Slump  EasyJet shares have slumped after the company said Jan. 20
that its loss in the first half ending March 31 would double to
as much as 160 million pounds ($256 million) after snow and
strikes caused flights to be canceled and fuel costs rise.  The share performance, the worst on the seven-member
Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index, has cut the carrier’s market
value to 1.44 billion pounds.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s
biggest discount carrier, is down 13 percent for a value of 4.87
billion euros ($6.8 billion), while International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, formed in January from a merger of BA and
Madrid-based Iberia, is worth 4.25 billion pounds.  “There should be further growth for EasyJet in the
business segment,” said Jonathan Wober, an analyst at Societe
Generale SA in London who recommends buying the stock. “With
each recession people have moved out of the premium cabin to the
economy cabin and from full-service carriers to low-cost
carriers, and while some move back with each recovery there has
been a structural decline in short-haul premium travel.”  EasyJet will start paying dividends in 2012 so long as it’s
profitable, McCall said in November following pressure from
founder  Stelios Haji-Ioannou .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  