-- 
Egyptian Minister Defends Decision to Criminalize Some Protests

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-03-27T14:22:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/egyptian-minister-defends-decision-to-criminalize-some-protests.html
Egypt ’s justice minister said a
government proposal to temporarily outlaw some protests, a
decision that angered many activists, was intended to prevent
chaos and help revive the economy.  “We don’t criminalize gatherings or striking or
protesting, this is a right for every citizen as long as it does
not paralyze work, hinder productivity or destroy the economy,”
Mohamed el-Gendy told reporters in Cairo today. “We completely
reject turning the revolution into chaos.”  Protests on Friday, the first day of the Egyptian weekend,
or after working hours would be permitted, he said. The ruling
would be “temporary legislation” that will end “the day the
emergency law is scrapped,” he said, referring to emergency
powers the government has held for nearly three decades.  Egypt has seen near-daily protests since an uprising that
began in January and eventually toppled President  Hosni Mubarak .
Since the uprising, economic growth has slowed as many tourists
have stayed away and factory output has been hit by strikes. The
Egyptian Cabinet on March 23 proposed a decree “criminalizing”
protests and sit-ins that hinder the work of public and private
establishments.  The Alliance of the Youths’ Revolution, a coalition of
protesting groups, said in a recent statement that the decision
“was another indication of a political movement that stands in
the face of any real democracy.”  “You won’t see people coming for tourism when they see
gatherings and protests and lack of security on the street,”
el-Gendy said. “All this worries investors. We want to attract
investors.”  El-Gendy called on the youths that led the uprising to
support the government’s efforts and to “protect their
revolution.”  “All the people who were benefiting under the former
regime are very keen to thwart this revolution,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal at   ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 