-- 
Lehman Minibond Investors Offered Higher Payout After Hong Kong Protests

-- B y   J o h n   D u c e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-03-28T10:53:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/lehman-structured-note-holders-in-hong-kong-to-get-back-80-of-principal.html
Hong Kong holders of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc (LEHMQ) .-linked structured notes may get as much
as 96.5 percent of their money back as banks make a second
attempt to settle a dispute that forced them to change the way
they sell investment products.  Investors in some series of the so-called minibonds will
get 70 percent to 93 percent of their money back, receiver
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said yesterday. Lenders offered an
additional payment that will bring eligible investors’ recovery
levels to as high as 96.5 percent. An agreement is conditional
on noteholders voting in favor of the settlement.  The offer covers about 31,000 buyers whose investments were
almost wiped out when Lehman Brothers collapsed in September
2008. A July 2009 repayment offer of at least 60 cents on the
dollar in  Hong Kong  failed to mollify all investors, with some
staging daily protests outside bank branches across the city.  “The settlement is a much better deal for investors than
the previous one,” said Billy Mak, an associate professor in
the department of finance and decision sciences at the Hong Kong
Baptist University. “If they insist on a 100-percent refund by
filing lawsuits, there’s going to be costs in taking legal
actions and the final compensation could be less.”  About 43,000 investors in Hong Kong bought an estimated
$1.8 billion of Lehman minibonds that were sold by lenders
before the New York-based investment bank succumbed to the
financial crisis. Almost daily protests outside bank branches,
featuring banging of cymbals and bullhorns blaring pre-recorded
statements, became a nuisance for lenders and their customers.  Want Money Back  “This latest repurchase proposal doesn’t reflect the
large-scale violations in regulations by the banks,” said Eddy
Chan, a representative of the Alliance of Lehman Brothers
Victims in Hong Kong. “We want 100 percent of our money back as
a minimum. They should disclose more of the details of the
negotiations.”  Chan said the group previously comprised of about 6,000
minibond investors though the number may have shrunk as some
have accepted the settlement.  “I won’t accept the latest proposal,” Esther Ip, 58, who
invested HK$1 million in a minibond product in 2008, said in an
interview today. “Why should they only include investors of
some minibond series?  Ip was among about 50 protesters gathered outside the main
office of  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  in Hong Kong who were waving
banners with slogans including “Lehman not settled” and “BOC
uses tricks to cheat money from citizens.”  The July 2009 agreement originally covered about 29,000
investors.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is the trustee for the minibonds.  Extra Payments  “This seems to be a good outcome,” said  David Webb , a
Hong Kong-based shareholder activist. “The agreement doesn’t
cover all the bonds, but this should reduce the number of people
who are still thinking of going to court over this issue to very
small numbers.”  An estimated 4 percent of note holders would get at least
90 percent of their investments back, and 65 percent of those
eligible would get 80 percent to 90 percent. The “ex gratia”
payment is on top of that and covers minibond investors who have
already settled with their banks.  Some 96 percent of minibond holders eligible for repayments
under the original agreement had already accepted offers to
repurchase their bonds before yesterday’s announcement by the
receivers and Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc.  Collateralized Products  “This is a very decent offer,” K.C. Chan, the Hong Kong
secretary for financial services and the Treasury, said in a
statement today. “Regarding the redemption of collateralized
products, the issue should have been completely resolved.”  BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd., Bank of  China ’s Hong Kong
unit, said in a statement late yesterday that it will make
HK$160 million ($20.5 million) available for the settlement of
the minibonds, and that it plans to write back part of the
provisions for the investments.  A Hong Kong court in February cleared a BOC Hong Kong
(Holdings) Ltd. manager of fraudulently or recklessly inducing
retail clients to buy Lehman minibonds. A second employee is
awaiting a verdict on the same charges.  The lender, along with 15 banks, agreed in an earlier
settlement to pay at least 60 cents on the dollar, for HK$6.3
billion. That agreement was reached with the Securities and
Futures Commission and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.  BOC Hong Kong, the biggest seller of the notes in the city,
offered in July 2009 to pay HK$3.11 billion to the minibond
investors, almost half the total compensation extended by the
banks. The lender also said then it would make an aggregate
provision of HK$3.63 billion for the settlement.  Lump Sum Payment  The 16 banks have offered to pay a lump sum of up to 50
percent of the shortfall in the amount invested in minibonds to
people who already came to individual agreements with banks over
the issue, according to yesterday’s statement. Bondholders will
vote on the settlement at a series of meetings and payments may
start in June, the banks said.  “This outcome would have been as impossible in the months
following the collapse of Lehman,” according to a  statement 
issued by the Securities and Futures Commission yesterday. “We
are pleased to note that investors of the relevant mini bond
series will benefit from the high level of recovery.”.  The inquiry into the sale of minibonds prompted the  Hong
Kong Monetary Authority, the city’s de facto central bank , to
propose that lenders physically separate deposit-taking and
investment businesses at their branches and tape all
conversations related to sales of investment products.  The notes were sold to investors including the elderly and
poorly educated people as well as mentally ill individuals,
according to an investigation by the city’s central bank made
public by lawmakers in April 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  