-- 
Elop Fights Nokia Traditions in Race to Ship Microsoft Phone

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-03-28T07:22:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/elop-fights-nokia-traditions-in-race-to-ship-microsoft-phone.html
Every summer for the last four
years while  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  shipped a new iPhone,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  managers
vacationed at their lake cottages in Finland.  “In mid-July, Nokia House is a ghost town,” said  Adam
Greenfield , managing director of Urbanscale, a design consulting
firm in  New York , who worked for Nokia from 2008 to 2010. “If
you need a decision and the key person’s at the summer cottage?
Forget it. You’ll resolve that issue in September. It’s
something that hampers their agility.”  Speeding up Nokia’s product development is at the top of
Chief Executive Stephen Elop’s agenda as he tries to meld the
Finnish company’s handsets with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  software to
narrow the widening gap to Apple and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Nokia has
delayed most of its top-end smartphones in the last two years,
resulting in sliding profit and market-share losses. Its shares
have dropped 25 percent since the Microsoft deal was announced.  Elop, a former Microsoft executive brought in as CEO in
September to turn the company around, is relinquishing Nokia’s
homegrown platforms Symbian and MeeGo for Microsoft’s Windows
Phone 7. Nokia may provide a peek at its first Windows phone
this year, though it’s promising volume shipments only in 2012.  “It’s risky even to wait that long,” said Rob Sanfilippo,
a consultant with Kirkland, Washington-based consulting firm
Directions on Microsoft. “It would be great if they had them
out by the middle of the year, June or summer, even if it’s one
device to show that there’s real progress happening quickly.”  ‘First Proof’  Elop needs to narrow Nokia’s productivity gap to boost
margins. Apple squeezes three times more revenue per employee
than Nokia, while  Taiwan ’s HTC Corp. gets twice as much,
Bloomberg data show. Microsoft’s revenue per employee is 1.5
times Nokia’s.  Both Nokia and Microsoft need the collaboration to work.
Nokia’s smartphone market share has tumbled to 30.8 percent from
50.8 percent when Apple started shipping the iPhone in June
2007. Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, with about 3.4
percent of the smartphone market, is piggybacking the world’s
largest mobile-phone maker to dent the emerging dominance of
Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android software.  An early test for the partnership will come as Nokia folds
its services into Microsoft’s world: Office, Exchange corporate
e-mail, Xbox games, Zune music products and Bing search.  “The first proof points will come when they start to put
maps into Microsoft services and integrate them with Nokia
services,” said Martin Garner, a London-based analyst at CCS
Insight. “It’s in those announcements over the coming six to
nine months that we’ll see how well it’s working before the
phones start to arrive.”  ‘No. 1 Issue’  Nokia’s record isn’t encouraging. A less-ambitious 2009
partnership between the companies still hasn’t produced an
Office suite on Symbian. Nokia has delayed almost every top-end
smartphone based on its own platforms since the N97 was shipped
on time with buggy software in June 2009. It postponed the N900
in the fall of 2009, the N8 in the summer of 2010 and the E7 in
winter 2010. The first MeeGo device was delayed to this year
from 2010.  Mobile industry product cycles are down to six or seven
months, said Bert Nordberg, the CEO of Android-based phone maker 
Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications Ltd. in January. In past 
years, Nokia probably spent between 18 months and two years 
developing hardware products, said Horace Dediu, the managing 
director of Helsinki-based Asymco, an independent research firm.  Elop, 47, said at a media summit in  Abu Dhabi  this month
that speed and accountability are “by far the No. 1 issue”
employees talk to him about. Nokia is changing on those fronts,
he said.  ‘Unparalleled Speed’  “We’re moving at a speed that is unparalleled for our
company and I would argue is on par with anyone else in the
industry,” Elop said. “The number of examples of difficult
processes, of committees and boards and agencies and
commissions, all these people who are spending time
contemplating instead of aggressively moving forward is
something that we’re already fundamentally changing.”  Investors remain skeptical. The drop since the Microsoft
venture was announced have extended Nokia’s share decline to 70
percent since the iPhone was introduced, wiping out about 60
billion euros ($84 billion) in market value. Nokia rose as much
as 3 percent to 6.15 euros in Helsinki today.  Nokia’s adoption of a new platform and the restructuring
planned as a result means Elop may face clashes next month with
unions, which over the years won  Finland ’s sun-starved workers
four weeks of summer holidays. The talks will deal with pruning
a 16,000-strong global development team in the shift to Windows.
Elop said Feb. 11 there will be “substantial” job cuts.  ‘Internal Fight’  “They cannot afford to lose time on internal fights when
they have to win against competitors who are faster,” said
Francisco Jeronimo, a London-based analyst with IDC. Samsung
Electronics Co., the world’s No. 2 mobile-phone maker, can move
engineering teams from one project to another in weeks, he said.  The Microsoft accord is also forcing a new mindset on
Nokia.  Symbian, unlike Microsoft software, is “open source.” So
is MeeGo, which Nokia has developed with  Intel Corp. (INTC)  Open source
permits outside developers to take the code and modify it, and
write any kind of programs to work with it. Google’s Android has
also been open source. Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7, like Apple’s
systems, is closed.  “The Finnish engineers I know are religiously committed to
open source, and I could hardly think of a more implacable
opponent to that philosophy than Redmond,” said Urbanscale’s
Greenfield. “They are likely to lose a lot of talent that won’t
want to work with Microsoft.”  Open vs Closed  In a speech in 2009,  Anssi Vanjoki , a former Nokia
executive vice president, who resigned shortly after Elop was
appointed, likened closed systems to Stalinism.  Closed systems “are just like that experimental societal
system led by a dictator who thinks control is best,” he said.  Before the rise of Nokia, Finland’s best known high-tech
achievement was Linux, the open source system written by Linus Torvalds in the 1990s. MeeGo and Android are Linux-based.  Microsoft on the other hand jealously guards its software.
It was investigated by authorities in the U.S. and in  Europe  for
blocking third-party software like the Netscape browser, and
made to open its interfaces and pay fines. Rich Green, a Sun
Microsystems Inc. manager who’s now Nokia’s chief technology
officer, was among people to testify against Microsoft.  With current makers of phones based on its software,
Microsoft keeps a tight hold on product variation, specifying
screen resolution, buttons, and electronics. The standards are
expected to be relaxed for Nokia as part of their accord.  Loss of Control  “Nokia cannot be treated as a normal licensee,” said
 Carolina Milanesi , a Gartner Inc. analyst in Egham, U.K. “I
don’t think it would be beneficial for Microsoft to continue to
work with that mindset that ‘we know best and you take what we
give you.’”  Microsoft spokesman John Hipsher declined to comment.  Nokia’s loss of control over software hasn’t gone over well
with everyone. On Feb. 24, Valtteri Halla, a MeeGo manager
representing Nokia in talks with partner Intel, quit, becoming
among the higher-profile casualties of Elop’s shift.  “The things I’ve worked for don’t seem to be continuing in
a way that would make it good for me to work here anymore,”
Halla said in an interview with business website  Taloussanomat .  Most employees are hunkering down to see what Elop’s
changes will bring.  “There’s broad terror because people don’t yet know who is
going to be laid off and who isn’t,” said Tero Kuittinen, an
analyst at Greenwich, Connecticut-based MKM Partners.
“Uncertainty and fear have been maximized, just when the
company needs everyone to focus on development work.”  Nokia can’t afford that.  “The mid-tier iPhone may be announced this year, and if
Microsoft and Nokia are not quick enough to compete, they will
have to buy market share,” IDC’s Jeronimo said. “That’s always
a lot more expensive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  