-- 
Tepco Says Radioactive Reading in Water at No. 2 Was Wrong

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-03-27T13:58:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/tepco-says-radioactive-reading-in-water-at-no-2-was-wrong-1-.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. said its
analysis of some of the radioactive substances in the water at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi No. 2 reactor’s turbine building was
wrong and the company will reanalyze the water.  The reading of 2.9 billion becquerels per cubic centimeter
of iodine-134, one of the substances found in the water, may
have been wrong, said Naoki Tsunoda, a spokesman at the Tokyo-
based utility. The radiation level of more than 1,000
millisieverts per hour at the building probably won’t change, he
said.  Tepco, as the utility is known, corrected the reading after
 Japan ’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency requested the
company recheck the analysis. Efforts to gain control over the
damaged nuclear plants following Japan’s strongest earthquake on
record have been hampered by radiation leaks, forcing repair
work to be suspended. Three workers were exposed to radiation on
March 24 after stepping in water at the No. 3 unit.  The radiation level at the No. 2 turbine is 10 million
times the plant’s normal level, broadcaster NHK said. That’s
higher than the dose that would cause vomiting, hair loss and
diarrhea, according to the  World Nuclear Association .  Japan will check soil around the Fukushima nuclear power
plants to see if there is any plutonium contamination, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told a televised news conference
today, as the worst atomic accident since Chernobyl entered its
third week.  Radioactive nuclides including cesium-136 and  yttrium-91 
were found in water at the turbine building of the No. 1
reactor, the Japanese nuclear agency said in a  statement  on its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  