-- 
Tepco Chief Pressured to Quit After Costing Holders $29 Billion

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o ,   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-28T07:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/tepco-chief-pressured-to-quit-after-costing-holders-26-billion.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. President
Masataka Shimizu is facing calls to quit after the crisis at the
utility’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant capped a tenure that
has seen $29 billion wiped off the company’s market value.  The share price decline since Shimizu took charge in June
2008 at Tepco, as the company is known, has deepened to 73
percent in the aftermath of the nuclear disaster, as of today’s
close in Tokyo. That’s the worst performance of any of the 88
members of the MSCI World Utilities Index and of the 17
companies in the Topix Electric Power & Gas Index.  Tepco has been battling to prevent a catastrophic release
of radiation at the crippled plant north of Tokyo, struck 17
days ago by a devastating quake and tsunami. Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan ’s anger at the early response to the threat of nuclear
meltdown will likely prompt a purge of Shimizu, 66, and his
executive team, investors and analysts said.  “Inevitably Shimizu will step down, it is more a question
of timing,” said Ken Courtis, former vice-chairman of Goldman
Sachs  Asia  and co-founder of the China-focused private equity
fund Themes Investment Partners.  Tepco fell for a fourth day in Tokyo today, slumping 18
percent to 696 yen, the lowest close since February 1977.  No Outsiders  Shimizu hasn’t faced reporters since attending a March 13
press conference. He has been taking the lead at the company’s
head office in central Tokyo in leading Tepco’s response to the
incident, spokesman Takeo Iwamoto said March 24. Yoshimi
Hitosugi, another Tepco spokesman, declined requests for an
interview with Shimizu for this article on March 25, citing his
focus on the situation at the plant.  Shimizu became ill “through overwork” for a few days
after March 16, and has since recovered, spokesman Kazufumi
Suzuki said yesterday.  Any successor is likely to come from the existing pool of
executives. A Tepco president is often selected from among those
holding the dual title of director and vice-president, according
to the company’s website. The utility has never appointed anyone
to the top job from outside the company.  Norio Tsuzumi, Takashi Fujimoto, Masaru Takei, Masao Yamazaki, Makio Fujiwara and Sakae Muto are Tepco’s executive
vice presidents, with Tsuzumi the oldest at 64, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Culture Change’  “I think Tepco will need to change its culture in many
ways,” said Dr. Murray E. Jennex, an associate professor at  San
Diego State University  with 20 years’ experience in examining
nuclear containment structures at the consulting firm General
Physics and the Southern California Edison Co. “They will need
to open up and have a very transparent investigation to
reinstill confidence.” he said. “Their reputation is very poor
as far as being open with information.”  Shimizu proposed visiting the Fukushima Prefecture governor
Yuhei Sato to apologize for the accident on March 22, but was
asked to deal with events at the power plant first, Tepco
spokesman Takashi Kurita said.  Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara attacked Tepco’s reaction
to the crisis on March 25, after meeting with Sato. “Their
response has been no good at all,” he said. “It’s been slow.”  Shimizu joined Tepco in April 1968 and worked in its
procurement department for much of his career. He was named vice
president in June 2006.  Board Members  He replaced Tsunehisa Katsumata, 70, three years ago as the
company forecast its first loss in 28 years. Katsumata now
chairs a board with an average age of 62, and whose 20 members
have a combined age of more than 1,200, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shimizu pledged three years ago to “regain trust” in
nuclear power after a 2007 earthquake shut his company’s biggest
atomic plant at Kashiwazaki Kariwa. The disaster that’s unfolded
at Fukushima Dai-Ichi since the 9.0-magnitude temblor has
destroyed any chance he had of success.  Tepco delayed pumping seawater on to its overheating
reactors because of concerns of the damage this would cause, the
Wall Street Journal reported March 19, and company spokesmen had
to correct some information they gave out on damage to the
reactors on March 16.  “They were greedy and wanted to try to re-use the
reactors,” Tokyo Governor Ishihara said March 25. “Had they
used sea water from the start we wouldn’t be in this
situation.”  Radiation Mistake  Tepco today said it had overstated the level of radiation
in water on the floor of the No. 2 reactor’s generator building.
The level was 100,000 times normal, not 10 million times as
earlier reported, Tepco’s Muto said in a briefing broadcast on
the Internet.  Japan ’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency gave
the utility a verbal warning not to repeat the mistake, public
broadcaster NHK reported.  Tepco faces a maximum 120 billion yen ($1.5 billion) in
costs to cover third-party damages resulting from the accident,
according to Japanese law. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano
said this week the government will aid farmers if the utility is
unable to bear the costs.  “Already, prior to the incident, Tepco had not been the
company with the quickest and most accurate communication,”
said Andre Haemmerli, who helps manage more than $200 million at
GHP Arbitrium AG in Zurich, including Tepco shares. The firm’s
Tsunami Fund focuses on Japan. “I think we’ll see some change
at top management.”  Government ‘Punishment’  Kan’s frustration at Tepco’s handling of the crisis boiled
over at least once. On March 15 an hour-long delay in the
company informing him of a fire in reactor No. 1 prompted Kan to
demand of utility officials: “What the hell is going on?”
 Kyodo News  other news agencies quoted him as saying within
earshot of reporters.  Tepco’s market value has dropped from about 3.5 trillion
yen in June 2008 to 1.1 trillion yen as of today’s close, during
which time the number of shares in issue has increased about 19
percent, based on Tepco earnings filings.  “Recovery will take time, maybe a long time, and top
management must be replaced,” said Edwin Merner, Tokyo-based
president of Atlantis Investment Research, which manages about
$3 billion in assets. “The company has insurance and the losses
may be less than you think, but the government will try to
punish them for sure.”  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi crisis comes less than four years
after the 6.8-magnitude quake that shut the Kashiwazaki Kariwa
plant. Katsumata stepped down after the temblor damaged the
station, caused some radiation to leak, sparked a fire and
stoked public mistrust about the station’s safety.  Faked Safety Reports  Katsumata, who joined Tepco in 1963 according to Bloomberg
data, himself became president amid controversy. He was promoted
in October 2002 after Hiroshi Araki and Nobuya Minami, chairman
and president at that time, stepped down to take responsibility
for fake safety reports at three nuclear  power plants , including
Kashiwazaki Kariwa.  On March 22, 2007, Tepco said it may have had a serious
accident at a reactor at Fukushima Dai-Ichi in 1978, when an
unexpected atomic chain reaction occurred.  Tepco knew in 2003 the Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant was located
near a fault that could cause a more powerful earthquake than
the one that damaged it in 2007, according to documents Tepco
filed to a trade ministry committee.  Tepco’s Tsuzumi acknowleged problems with the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant’s design, Kyodo News reported March 22. Tepco
ignored warnings over the plants preparedness for tsunamis,
former lawmaker Tatsuya Ito said March 16.  “Japan is not a litigious culture,” Courtis said. “But
if it were, there would also be endless class action suits
against Tepco. However, Tepco covers the largest and most
dynamic market in Japan, and has essentially a monopoly in the
region, so over time it will rebuild itself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  