-- 
Merkel’s Nuclear Policy Under Fire as Greens Surge in Elections

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-03-28T07:35:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/merkel-s-coalition-trails-greens-surge-in-state-elections-exit-polls-say.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition was defeated in its southwestern heartland and failed
to win control of a second state as the anti-nuclear Greens vote
surged to a record, forcing her to reassess  energy policy .  The Greens are poised to enter the regional governments in
Baden-Wuerttemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate after yesterday’s
state elections conducted in the shadow of the nuclear disaster
in Japan. In Baden-Wuerttemberg, the Greens are set to lead
their first state administration, ejecting Merkel’s  Christian
Democrats  from power in Stuttgart after 58 years.  The shift would grant the Greens sway over policy affecting
a state whose economy is bigger than Belgium and Luxembourg
combined, driven by companies such as Porsche AG,  SAP AG (SAP)  and
 Daimler AG. (DAI)  It would also hand them control of Germany’s third-
biggest utility,  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) , and its
four nuclear plants just as the Japan crisis fans public fears
over reactor safety.  “Merkel’s coalition in Berlin must take a huge slice of
the blame” after voters’ “complete rejection of her nuclear
policy and her leadership,” Hans-Juergen Hoffmann, head of the
Psephos polling company, said by phone. “That a booming economy
in the land of Daimler and Porsche played a backseat role in the
region’s election is a turning point in the fortunes of the
federal coalition.”  Euro Drops  German utility shares rose, with  E.ON AG (EOAN) , the country’s
largest power company, gaining 0.5 percent to 21.53 at 9:16 a.m.
Frankfurt time. The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.4043.  The  Christian Democratic Union  took 39 percent in Baden-
Wuerttemberg, its worst result in the state since 1952, while
its Free Democratic Party coalition partner won 5.3 percent,
preliminary official results showed. That leaves the parties --
the same constellation as Merkel’s federal coalition -- short of
a majority and may spell the end of CDU rule, uninterrupted
since 1953.  The Greens took a record 24.2 percent, while the Social
Democrats, the main opposition party nationally, won 23.1
percent. The SPD, which also opposes nuclear power, said it is
prepared to rule in coalition with the Greens.  “There won’t just be a changing of the guard in Baden-
Wuerttemberg, there will be a change of politics,” Greens
national co-leader Claudia Roth said in Berlin. It will be “a
historic watershed in 31 years of Green history when we vote in
a Green premier” in the state. “Let the future begin.”  Rhineland Results  In the neighboring state of Rhineland-Palatinate, the
Social Democrats led by Kurt Beck took 35.7 percent, forcing
them to search for a coalition partner after governing alone.
While Merkel’s CDU pushed the SPD close, taking 35.2 percent,
the Free Democrats with 4.2 percent failed to retain their seats
in the state parliament in Mainz, leaving the CDU without a
coalition ally. The Greens took 15.4 percent, more than triple
their tally at the last election in 2006, putting them in a
position to join the SPD in government.  The twin ballots, the biggest electoral test so far of
Merkel’s second-term government, are the latest in a run of
seven state elections this year that allow voters to rate her
policies from stemming  Europe ’s debt turmoil to her response to
war in  Libya  and explosions at the Fukushima reactors in  Japan .  With the CDU poised to lose Baden-Wuerttemberg, “Merkel
may become a lame duck, nuclear power in Germany may become a
memory,” Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange research in
London Societe Generale SA, said yesterday in a note. “Sorting
out Europe doesn’t get easier.”  Nationally, support for the Greens has surged since Merkel,
reacting to the disaster in Japan, closed Germany’s seven oldest
reactors for three months and suspended an extension of plant
lifespans she pushed through last year pending safety checks.  ‘We Understood’  “At the end of those three months, we will have to present
a new energy policy,” said Peter Altmaier, the CDU’s deputy
floor leader in the national parliament. Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle , the FDP leader, said his party “understood” the
message voters sent on nuclear policy. The issue is “something
we really have to discuss” now, he said in Berlin.  About 250,000 people took part in demonstrations across
 Germany  on March 26 calling for an end to atomic power, in what
organizers said were some of the biggest anti-nuclear protests
the country has ever seen.  A Greens-SPD win raises the chance of “an accelerated
schedule for the permanent shutdown” of “some or all of
Germany’s 17 nuclear reactors,” Mark Lewis, a Deutsche Bank AG
analyst in Paris, said before the votes. “I don’t think the
market has really grasped how deep the potential implications of
these elections go.”  Merkel’s party suffered its worst defeat since World War II
in Hamburg last month in the first of this year’s state
elections. The CDU lost support in the second ballot, on March
20 in Saxony-Anhalt, as the Green vote unexpectedly doubled.  Stuttgart 21 Project  In Baden-Wuerttemberg, the Greens gained support last year
as they tapped into public opposition to a high-speed rail
project known as Stuttgart 21 that is backed by Merkel and the
defeated CDU state premier, Stefan Mappus.  The Greens also opposed the state government’s purchase of
a 45.01 percent stake in utility EnBW from Electricite de France
SA for 4.7 billion euros ($6.7 billion) in February. The state
now controls 92.3 percent of the  voting rights  in the company.  “Today, the final decision was made on ending nuclear
power in Germany,”  Sigmar Gabriel , national chairman of the
opposition  Social Democratic Party , said on ZDF.  For Merkel, who is now under “enormous pressure, and
making mistakes,” the results diminish her authority even if
she lacks a direct challenger before the next federal elections
due in 2013, Lothar Probst, a political scientist at the
University of Bremen, said in a phone interview.  “At some point, members of her party are going to start
asking whether she can lead this party and hold it together,”
Probst said. “This could well be the beginning of the end of
the Merkel era.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  