-- 
Schaeffler Reaches Bank Deal to Reduce Continental AG Shares

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-03-27T15:43:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/metzler-to-sell-stake-in-continental-ag-to-reduce-schaeffler-s-debt-burden.html
Schaeffler Group , the world’s
second-biggest maker of roller bearings, has agreed with German
banks to sell  Continental AG (CON)  shares worth about 1.8 billion
euros ($2.5 billion) to reduce debt.  M.M. Warburg and Bankhaus Metzler will each sell as many as
15 million shares in  Europe ’s second-largest tiremaker through
an accelerated bookbuilding, Herzogenaurach, Germany-based
Schaeffler said in an e-mailed statement today. The banks hold
the stock on Schaeffler’s behalf.  Schaeffler will also buy a total of 15.5 million shares
from the two lenders to increase its direct Continental holding
to 49.9 percent from 42.2 percent. The two banks won’t sell
additional shares in the next 12 months, according to the
company. The banks confirmed the plans in separate statements.  The rebound in the  auto industry  last year has boosted
Continental’s sales and earnings. The company reported revenue
and profit that beat analyst estimates for the fourth quarter
and predicted rising sales from  Asia  this year will compensate
for additional costs from surging rubber prices.  Closely held Schaeffler accumulated 12 billion euros in
debt from purchasing its stake in the car-parts maker.
Schaeffler currently controls 75.1 percent of Continental,
including the banks’ holdings. The tiremaker’s shares have
surged 57 percent in the past 12 months, boosting its market
value to 12.2 billion euros. The stock rose 0.3 percent to 60.97
euros in Frankfurt March 25. The 1.8 billion-euro value for the
stake being sold is based on the last closing price.  Increased Circulation  Schaeffler, which intends to convert to an incorporated
company in the course of 2011, said the increased circulation of
Continental shares on the market will position the tiremaker to
reapply for  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX Index. (DAX)  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. will manage the sale to institutional investors, Metzler
said in its statement.  Hanover, Germany-based Continental is also close to
agreeing to new financing after banks offered more loans than it
asked for, three people familiar with those talks told Bloomberg
News yesterday. Continental is seeking to secure cheaper terms
and replace loans coming due next year. The company, which
requested 6 billion euros, was offered about 8.5 billion euros
in loans, two of the people said.  Continental Refinancing  Continental was seeking 6 billion euros of term loans and
revolving credits from lenders for as long as three years to
replace maturing debt, people familiar with the matter told
Bloomberg News on March 10.  Standard & Poor’s rates Continental’s debt B, or five steps
below investment grade. Moody’s Investors Service ranks it one
step higher at B1. Both have a stable outlook on the ratings.
Continental aims to return to investment grade by 2012.  One part of the credit coming due is a 4.06 billion-euro
term loan. The other is a forward-start credit line of 2.5
billion euros signed in December 2009. Continental agreed to pay
interest of between 475 basis points and 500 basis points more
than benchmark lending rates for the loans, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The debt stems from Continental’s 2007 acquisition of
Siemens AG’s VDO unit for 11.4 billion euros.  Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG are coordinating the
refinancing for the Hanover, Germany-based company, people
familiar with the discussions told Bloomberg on March 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 