-- 
Euro Falls for Second Day After Merkel’s Party Defeated; Dollar Advances

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-03-28T02:42:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/euro-drops-against-dollar-yen-as-leaders-divided-on-bailout-fund.html
The euro weakened for a second day
against the dollar after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition was defeated in its southwestern heartland, clouding
the political outlook for  Europe ’s biggest economy.  The single currency snapped a two-day gain versus the Swiss
franc after European Union leaders cut the startup capital for a
program of future emergency aid, stoking concern efforts to
quell the debt crisis will be insufficient. The dollar
strengthened to a one-week high versus the yen before a report
that economists said will show U.S. consumer spending increased
for an eighth month in February.  “It’s a double whammy for the euro,” said Kurt Magnus,
executive director of currency sales in Sydney at Nomura
Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage. “All political
instability weighs on currencies.”  The euro declined to $1.4054 as of 11:36 a.m. in  Tokyo  from
$1.4088 last week in  New York , after sliding 0.6 percent on
March 25. It earlier dropped to $1.4021, the weakest level since
March 18. The common currency rose to 114.78 yen from 114.68 yen.
The dollar gained 0.3 percent to 81.61 yen after reaching 81.65
yen, the strongest since March 18. The greenback advanced 0.2
percent to $1.6015 per pound.  German Election  Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  won 39 percent of the
votes in yesterday’s election in Baden-Wuerttemberg, its worst
result since 1952, while its Free Democratic Party allies won
5.3 percent, according to the state election website. That
leaves the two parties short of a majority and marks the end of
the CDU’s 58-year state rule. The opposition Greens took a
record 24.2 percent, while the  Social Democrats , who say they
will form a coalition with the Greens, won 23.1 percent.  EU leaders last week pared the emergency-aid fund’s paid-in
capital as of 2013 to 16 billion euros ($22.5 billion), less
than the 40 billion euros foreseen in a March 21 accord. The
announcement came after  Portugal ’s credit rating was cut last
week by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings,
while Ireland is seeking to renegotiate the terms of last year’s
bailout accord.  The dollar gained for a third day versus the yen on
optimism the recovery in the world’s largest economy is gaining
momentum. U.S. consumer spending rose 0.5 percent in February,
after increasing 0.2 percent the prior month, according to a
Bloomberg survey before today’s Commerce Department report.  Federal Reserve policy makers should review whether to
complete a second round of quantitative-easing purchasing due to
end in June because of strong U.S. economic data, St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard  said March 26. Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  and Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker have urged a review of the bond purchases in light of an
improving economy and concern over future inflation.  Fed Hawks  “Strong U.S. data would add credence to the Fed hawks’
view that the central bank’s super-accommodative stance needs a
re-think,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of
New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “Such a scenario would provide
fundamental support to the dollar.”  The yen dropped against all 16 of its major counterparts on
speculation Japan will be among the last of the major economies
to raise  interest rates .  The BOJ will increase its benchmark rate by two basis
points over the next 12 months, compared with 37 basis points of
increases by the Fed, Credit Suisse Group AG indexes show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold two-year
Treasuries instead of similar-dated Japanese notes widened to 55
basis points, the most since Feb. 16, on speculation the Fed
will end quantitative easing earlier than the Bank of  Japan .  ‘Look Solid’  “Recoveries of economies in the U.S. and elsewhere look
solid,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign-exchange
department at Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank in
Tokyo. “Sentiment is likely to be risk on, so the yen will
probably be sold.”  The yen has weakened versus 13 of its 16 major counterparts
this quarter, falling the most against the euro and the Danish
krone, as the Group of Seven nations intervened to bring down
the yen from a postwar high.  The Swiss franc has become the only haven in the foreign-
exchange market as the Group of Seven weakens the yen and the
Federal Reserve floods the U.S. financial system with dollars.  The franc has surged 7.7 percent in the past year, the most
among the 10 most-widely traded currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Not even the cash spent
by  Switzerland ’s central bank last year to curb the franc’s
strength was enough to keep it from appreciating more than 18
percent against the euro.  “The franc has become the ultimate safe haven,” said
Audrey Childe-Freeman, head of European currency strategy in
 London  at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “In a world where there are
question marks against both the dollar and the euro and an
environment that will be choppy for the yen in the context of
intervention, the franc seems to be the best bet.”  The franc gained 0.1 percent to 1.2945 per euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net . 