-- 
Fed Seat Stalemate Leaves Diamond in the Rough: Kevin Hassett

-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 
2011-03-27T23:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/fed-seat-stalemate-keeps-diamond-in-the-rough-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html
If a modern-day Aesop were to write
a fable that illustrates the essential character of the American
government, he could model it on the story of  Peter Diamond .  Of the 67 winners of the  Nobel Prize in economics , only a
handful could be considered giants, thinkers whose names will
echo in the halls of academia centuries from now. Diamond, a
professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , is one
of them.  Which makes it surpassingly odd that he finds himself in an
appalling Senate confirmation purgatory. His nomination to the
Federal Reserve Board of Governors has been mired in the
approval process for 11 months.  The gruesome sight is instructive. Anyone who wants to fix
 Washington  needs to start with an understanding of Diamond’s
case.  Since his initial nomination, Diamond has been twice
approved by the Senate Banking Committee but hasn’t made it to
the Senate floor for a vote. After his first approval from the
committee last July, the full Senate failed to vote on the
nomination before a long summer recess.  Under Senate rules, a nomination that doesn’t get a floor
vote before a full recess must be returned to the White House,
unless the Senate agrees by unanimous vote to hold the
nomination until the next session. That means any one senator
can scuttle the nomination. Diamond’s name was sent back to the
White House.  Try, Try Again  President  Barack Obama  reissued the nomination in
September, and Diamond was reapproved by the Banking Committee
in November. The Senate again failed to vote on the nomination
before the end of the session in December, nullifying the
nomination for a second time. Hoping that the third time is the
charm, the Obama administration renominated Diamond shortly
after the current session opened in January.  Diamond may be in trouble because he holds views that are
to the left of the  Republican Party  on many issues. In “Saving
Social Security: A Balanced Approach,” the 2004  book  he co-
wrote with former Obama administration economist  Peter Orszag ,
he revealed himself to be opposed to the individual retirement
accounts that are at the center of many conservative proposals
for reforming Social Security.  That said, the most likely explanation for Diamond’s
confirmation problems is that he is caught up in the Republican
payback for indefensible Democratic behavior during the final
years of  George W. Bush ’s presidency.  The worst of many confirmation horror stories under Bush
was the refusal of Democrats to confirm his nomination of
Randall Kroszner to the Fed board.  No Slam Dunk  Kroszner, a respected conservative economist at the
 University of Chicago , was already serving a partial term when
Bush nominated him for a full 14-year term in 2007. Confirmation
should have been a slam dunk. But Democrats held him up,
motivated in part by a desire to reserve that appointment for a
president of their own party, which they in fact got in the 2008
election.  This is what we have come to: In the minds of our
politicians, partisan maneuvering and score-settling far
outweigh the desire to populate government with skilled
individuals.  The fact that Diamond could be caught up in this mess is
especially lamentable, since his body of work is difficult to
locate on the political spectrum.  Tax Theory Pioneer  Along with James Mirrlees, also a Nobel winner, Diamond was
a pioneer in the field of tax theory. His path-breaking work on
optimal taxation demonstrated that government shouldn’t tax
production, a result that helped start the literature that led
to the flat-tax movement. That work should warm the heart of any
red-meat Republican.  The Nobel committee cited his work on search theory, an
area of economics that explores the implications for markets of
the observation that search can be costly, a characteristic of
real-world economies that had previously been omitted from
models. This innovation made the models better without slanting
them politically.  At this point in the fable, our modern-day Aesop would have
to decide between two endings. He could imagine a president with
great wisdom, who recognizes the history of injustice that has
led us to this impasse. Such a man would call up Republican
leadership and offer a deal that solves the problem and sets the
stage for a hopeful future.  The deal is possible because Federal Reserve Governor  Kevin Warsh  recently announced his intent to retire from the board,
opening up a new vacancy. If Kroszner were nominated to fill
that position, then the Senate would confirm both Diamond and
Kroszner. There it is -- a happy ending.  In a more likely scenario, Diamond is pilloried by
Republicans and goes back to MIT defeated. What would have been
his chair at the Fed sits empty, until the next election, when a
Republican wins the White House and sends a worthy Fed nominee
to the Senate for confirmation.  Guess what happens then.  (Kevin Hassett, director of economic-policy studies at the
 American Enterprise Institute , is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  