-- 
Fischer Likely to Increase Israeli Benchmark Rate for Third Month to 2.75%

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-03-27T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/fischer-may-increase-israel-s-benchmark-rate-for-third-month.html
Bank of Israel  Governor Stanley Fischer is likely to raise the benchmark lending rate for a
third consecutive month as growth and inflation accelerate.  Fischer will boost the rate by a quarter-point to 2.75
percent, according to 15 of the 20 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Four said the rate will remain unchanged and one said
it will be increased to 3 percent. The central bank in Jerusalem
will announce its decision at 5:30 p.m. local time today.  “There is strong inflation, both actual inflation and
expected inflation,”  Rafael Gozlan , chief economist at Leader
Capital Markets Ltd. in  Tel Aviv  said in a telephone interview.
“The Bank of  Israel  should raise by 50 basis points, but it
won’t, because of concern that this would cause the shekel to
appreciate by too much.”  Fischer has gradually increased the rate in a bid to
moderate shekel gains and help exporters compete in world
markets. In the last quarter of 2010, the economy expanded 7.7
percent, the fastest pace in four years. In February, inflation
accelerated to an annual 4.2 percent, its fastest in more than
two years and outside of the government’s target range of 1
percent to 3 percent for a second month.  Falling unemployment, rising wages, increasing commodity
prices and negative real  interest rates  are all contributing to
inflation, Gozlan said. Unemployment declined to a preliminary
6.1 percent in January, its lowest in more than two years, the
 Central Bureau of Statistics  reported on March 24.  Inflation expectations for the next 12 months were 3.1
percent in February, above the upper limit of the target range,
according to a survey of economists the central bank released
March 22.  Fischer has lifted the rate by 2 percentage points since
August 2009. In the past year, the shekel has gained about 4
percent, closing at 3.5581 on March 25. The TA-25 benchmark
index has risen by about 6 percent during the same period, led
by Avner Oil a partner in gas fields off the country’s coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  