-- 
Food Contamination Set to Rise as Japan Fights Radiation Crisis at Reactor

-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 
2011-03-28T03:50:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/food-contamination-set-to-rise-as-japan-fights-radiation-crisis-at-reactor.html
Radioactive contamination in food
is likely to increase as  Japan  enters a third straight week of
battling the biggest nuclear-energy crisis since Chernobyl.  “The number of radiation-affected foods will likely
increase as each prefecture is testing its produce,” Taku
Ohhara, an official at the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare,
said in a phone interview yesterday. Some 99 products, including
milk and vegetables, were found to be contaminated in  Tokyo  and
five prefectures to its north and east as of late March 26,
according to the health ministry’s  statement  on its website.  Shoppers in Hong Kong,  Singapore  and Sydney are shunning
Japanese food products in supermarkets amid concern about
radiation. The plight adds to the drags on economic growth
caused by as much as 25 trillion yen ($307 billion) of damage
from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. Japan exported 481
billion yen of food last year, accounting for 0.7 percent of
total exports, government figures show.  Radiation on some vegetables produced in Fukushima and
Chiba prefectures was higher than legal standards, Japan’s
Health Ministry said two days ago, according to  Kyodo News .
Chiba detected above-maximum radiation on 11 vegetables
including red-leaf lettuce, Kyodo reported yesterday.  Tolerable Levels  Among products found to be contaminated, red-leaf lettuce
in Ibaraki prefecture had 2,300 Becquerels per kilogram of
iodine-131, exceeding the ministry’s limit of 2,000 Becquerels.
Parsley in Chiba on March 22 had a reading as high as 3,100
Becquerels and spinach as high as 3,500 Becquerels on March 24,
according to data on the health ministry’s website.  Singapore expanded its suspension on fruit and vegetable
imports to include Tokyo and two other prefectures after more
radioactive contaminants were detected in two samples of
vegetables, the Agri-Food & Veterinary Authority of Singapore
said in an e-mailed statement March 26. The city-state had
previously halted imports of milk, seafood and meat from four
other affected areas in Japan.  Japan plans to urge other nations to observe World Trade
Organization rules after the U.S.,  China  and others halted
imports of some Japanese food products on radiation concern, the
Nikkei newspaper said yesterday. Rules require restrictions on
imports and exports to have a scientific basis, the paper said.  China Monitoring  China’s Ministry of Health started radiation monitoring of
food and water in 14 provinces and cities after the nuclear
accident, according to a statement on its website yesterday.  The regions include provinces and cities in northeastern
and coastal areas of China and the capital of Beijing, the
ministry said. The low levels of radioactive iodine detected in
the atmosphere of northeastern Heilongjiang province won’t
pollute food and water in China or affect people’s health, the
ministry said.  While Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said
yesterday that “some progress” is being made in solving the
problems at the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant,
radiation in water at the No. 2 reactor soared to more than
1,000 millisieverts an hour. The level is higher than the dose
that would cause vomiting, hair loss and diarrhea, according to
the  World Nuclear Association .  Water may be leaking from the reactor, Sakae Muto, a vice
president at plant operator Tokyo Electric Power Co., said at a
news conference early today in Tokyo.  Water Safety  The highest radiation readings so far suggest Japan’s
crisis has yet to be contained more than two weeks after an
earthquake and tsunami knocked out power to the plant. Thousands
of tons of water dumped on the reactors may now be leaking
radioactive elements outside the plant. Engineers are working on
ways to drain and store the contaminated water.  Elevated radiation levels, fires and explosions at four of
the six reactors at the nuclear plant have hampered repair work
since it was hit by a tsunami following the magnitude-9.0
temblor on March 11. The number of dead and missing following
the quake had reached 27,116 as of 10 a.m., according to the
 National Police Agency  in Tokyo.  Radioactive iodine in seawater collected near the Nos. 5
and 6 reactors of the nuclear plant was 1,150 times the legal
limit, Japan’s nuclear safety agency said today.  Tap Water  Meantime, there were signs of improvement in the safety of
tap water in Japan’s capital. Radiation in water was found in
one out of three Tokyo water purification plants based on
samples taken, the Tokyo metropolitan government said. Two out
of three facilities detected radioactive levels March 26.  The only water purification plant that found radiation was
the Asaka plant in Saitama, north of Tokyo, where the reading of
radioactive iodine-131 fell for a second day to 27 Becquerels
per kilogram. The Nuclear Safety Commission of Japan’s limit for
adult consumption is 300 Becquerels per kilo. Officials have set
a tentative limit for infant use at 100 Becquerels.  Fukushima prefecture asked local farmers to delay rice and
other crops because of concerns the soil may be contaminated by
radiation from the plant, the Asahi newspaper reported.  Japan will be forced to import more processed food and meat
in the aftermath of the crisis, Macquarie Commodities Research
said March 25. While economic losses may affect demand in the
medium term, the impact won’t be large, the researcher said.  In 2009, more than 70 percent of Japan’s food exports went
to  Hong Kong , the U.S., China,  Taiwan  and  South Korea , according
to the Japan External Trade Organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in Seoul at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  