-- 
Formula 1 Hospitality Is More Expensive in New Delhi Than Milan

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-03-27T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/formula-1-vips-pay-more-in-new-delhi-than-milan-as-series-taps-new-markets.html
Swilling champagne and mixing with
celebrities at Formula One races is cheaper in Milan than  New
Delhi , according to the  2011 price list  of a licensed
hospitality agent for the motor racing series.  A weekend VIP pass for the inaugural Indian Grand Prix
costs $4,200, 1.4 percent more than for a race in Monza, near
Italy’s fashion capital, in prices listed by London-based  F1
Corporate Ltd . Defending world champion Sebastian Vettel won the
first of as many as 20 races this season in Melbourne yesterday.  Formula One is also tapping emerging markets by bumping up
the price of hospitality for next month’s race in Shanghai by 16
percent compared with increases of less than 7 percent for
events in Barcelona and Silverstone, England.  “Asia and the emerging markets are the big growth areas
for Formula One,” Zak Brown, chief executive officer of
Zionsville, Indiana-based Just Marketing International, an auto-
racing marketing agency, said in an e-mail. “The pricing is a
reflection of supply and demand.”  Formula One chief executive officer  Bernie Ecclestone  has
moved races outside the series’ European heartland since 2004 to
help increase sales. With  Brazil ,  China  and  India  on this year’s
schedule, Russia is slated to become the final so-called BRIC
race host in 2014.  In 2009, the series generated $1.1 billion in income for
its owner, buyout firm CVC Capital Partners Ltd. Officials at
Geneva-based Allsport Management SA, which oversees corporate
hospitality, didn’t immediately return a telephone call or e-
mail seeking comment.  Paddock Club  Singer Jennifer Lopez and billionaire  Carlos Slim  were
among celebrities spotted last year in Formula One’s Paddock
Club, which says it tickets are “the season’s must-have
accessory.”  For your money, you get unlimited champagne, a gourmet
lunch, a car parking space and a walkabout in the pit-lane with
complimentary ear plugs.  Corporate hospitality sales are under pressure in  Europe 
after the economic downturn and amid more competition, said
Nigel Currie, director of London-based sports marketing agency
brandRapport. The Silverstone race competes with the Wimbledon
tennis championship, golf’s British Open and Premier League
soccer, Currie said.  “In new markets you don’t have that,” Currie said. “They
are desperate to stage sporting events.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  