-- 
Four Stocks to Buy, Hold During Treacherous Times: John Dorfman

-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 
2011-03-27T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/four-stocks-to-buy-hold-in-treacherous-times-john-dorfman.html
There’s truth in the old Wall
Street saying, “The market climbs a wall of worry.” The only
thing that changes is the graffiti on the wall.  The crises that preoccupy investors keep changing. At any
given time, there are a few issues that they can’t stop obsessing
about. Last year everyone’s attention was on the three Gs: the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s legal
problems and  Greece ’s solvency worries.  You hear little about these situations today. Just as I
predicted last year, the issues remain unresolved yet they have
mutated from crises into ordinary problems. Investors’ attention
has moved elsewhere.  Today’s preoccupations are  Japan ’s earthquake devastation
and nuclear crisis;  Libya ’s potential to become a third front to
bog down the U.S. military; and uprisings elsewhere in the
Middle East.  I believe that investors nonetheless can expect that stocks
of good companies purchased today will be worth more in two or
three years. I’m thinking of companies such as  Vishay
Intertechnology Inc. (VSH) ,  Buckle Inc. (BKE) ,  MKS Instruments Inc. (MKSI)  and
 Carter’s Inc. (CRI)   I’ll tell you why I like these stocks in a moment. First,
let me elaborate on the wall of worry concept.  In 1998 an Asian currency crisis took center stage. In
August of that year, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell about
15 percent. Some pundits thought the world financial system
would unravel. It didn’t, and the S&P went on to post a 29
percent total return for the remainder of the year.  Fall and Rise  Japanese stocks fell 26 percent in the first half of 1995
after a terrible earthquake that devastated  Kobe , an industrial
and shipping hub. Yet over the following 24 months, the Nikkei
225 Stock index gained almost 44 percent, including dividends.  I remember a time in the early 1970s when investors focused
obsessively on the U.S. balance of payments. Back in the 1920s,
rail car loadings were a key metric. It’s as if investors can
never see the whole forest, only certain trees.  The wall-of-worry concept applies over long time spans as
well. From December 1940 through December 2010 stocks advanced
at a compound annual growth rate of 11 percent, including
reinvested dividends. During that time we experienced World War
II, the  Korean War , the Cuban missile crisis, the  Vietnam War ,
above-ground nuclear testing (with radioactive fallout),
Watergate, the Arab oil embargo and several recessions.  Don’t Give Up  I recite that history lesson to worried clients when they
call me during scary times, wondering if they should stay in the
market or withdraw. You can guess my reply. As chess grandmaster
Bobby Fischer once said, nobody ever won a chess game by
resigning.  If you buy good stocks and hold them for two years or more,
you will usually come out well. One that I recommend now is
Vishay Intertechnology, based in Malvern,  Pennsylvania . It makes
electronic components such as capacitors, diodes, resistors and
transistors. Its products are used in cars, computers, printers
and mobile phones.  Vishay’s is a feast-or-famine business, and it had losses
in 2008 and 2009. I believe it will stay profitable for a good
while now. In 2010 it posted a return on stockholders’ equity of
almost 24 percent. The stock sells for 11 times earnings.  Years of Profit       Buckle, a Kearney, Nebraska, apparel maker, never missed a
beat during the worldwide recession. It has reported a profit
each year since it went public in 1992. In the fiscal year that
ended in January, the company posted a red-hot return on
stockholders’ equity, 38 percent.  You might expect Buckle to sell for exorbitant prices, but
in fact it fetches only 13 times earnings. The clothes are
definitely young, casual, and mostly medium-priced, with some
edging up to higher price points.  Occupying an interesting niche is MKS Instruments. The
Andover, Massachusetts, company makes instruments that control
and analyze gases during manufacturing processes. The products
are needed to make semiconductors, flat panel displays, optical
 storage devices  and solar cells.  The company lost money in 2009 yet bounced back in 2010,
posting a 19 percent return on equity. I think the technology
and manufacturing segments are heating up, and more profitable
times should lie ahead for MKS.  I’ll close with Carter’s, the largest U.S. manufacturer of
baby clothes. The Atlanta-based company has four major sales
channels: its own stores, department stores, Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. and Target Corp. It makes the Child of Mine brand for Wal-
Mart and the Tykes brand for Target.  Having acquired its leading competitor, Oshkosh B’Gosh
Inc., in 2005, Carter’s has market dominance and some degree of
pricing power. It earned almost 24 percent on equity last year.
The stock sells for 11 times earnings. It pays no dividend but
would be wise to start doing so, in my opinion.  Disclosure note: I have no long or short positions in the
stocks mentioned in this week’s column, for clients or
personally.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in  Boston ,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  