-- 
Franc Only Haven Left Means Biggest Gains SNB Can’t Stop

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-03-28T17:06:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/franc-only-haven-means-biggest-gains-in-currencies-hildebrand-can-t-stop.html
The Swiss franc, the best-
performing major currency the past year, has become the only
haven in the foreign-exchange market as the Group of Seven
weakens the yen and the Federal Reserve floods the U.S.
financial system with dollars.  The franc has surged 7.8 percent in the past year, the most
among the 10 most-widely traded currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Not even the cash spent
by Switzerland’s central bank last year to curb the franc’s
strength was enough to keep it from appreciating more than 18
percent against the euro.  Bets by futures traders on further gains against the dollar
reached the highest level this month since 2004, even as Swiss
National Bank President Philipp Hildebrand said its rise poses
“considerable risks” to the economy. Swiss growth will likely
lag behind Germany and the U.S. this year as exports from
watchmaker  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  to technology company OC Oerlikon
Corp. risk becoming less competitive.  “The franc has become the ultimate safe haven,” said
Audrey Childe-Freeman, head of European currency strategy in
 London  at the private-bank unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co., the
second-biggest U.S. lender by assets. “In a world where there
are question marks against both the dollar and the euro and an
environment that will be choppy for the yen in the context of
intervention, the franc seems to be the best bet.”  Currency Trading  Switzerland’s currency has benefited from the nation’s role
as a stable, neutral financial center and as an exporter of
precision products from watches to  machine tools . Since 1975,
only the yen has appreciated more than the franc among the 10
currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes.  Exports account for about 50 percent of  Switzerland ’s
economy, compared with 39 percent for Germany. The Alpine
nation’s current-account surplus -- the broadest measure of
trade because it includes investment -- may shrink to 10.95
percent of the economy this year, from 15.33 percent in 2010,
according to the median of 10 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
Germany’s surplus may expand to 5.3 percent this year from 5
percent, a separate survey shows.  While Switzerland’s $491 billion economy is the 19th biggest
in the world, the country has the sixth-most actively traded
currency, according to the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for
International Settlements. The bank’s  data  show it accounts for
6.4 percent of the $4 trillion average daily turnover in
foreign-exchange markets during the three years ended 2010.  ‘Victim of Success’  “We are a victim of our own success,” Rudolf Minsch,
chief economist at Economiesuisse, the biggest Swiss industry
group, representing 30,000 companies totaling 1.5 million
employees, said in a phone interview from Zurich on March 23.  The franc fell 1.4 percent last week to 1.29593 per euro
and was 2.1 percent weaker at 91.99 centimes per dollar, after
climbing to a record 88.52 centimes on March 17. It traded at
1.24025 per euro on Dec. 30, the strongest level since the
euro’s 1999 debut. The franc was at 1.29482 per euro and 91.88
centimes as of 1:05 p.m. in New York.  The currency is still over-valued by 39 percent against its
U.S. counterpart and is 32 percent too expensive versus the
euro, according to an index developed by the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development that uses
relative  costs  of goods and services.  Hedge funds  and other speculators held a net 27,640
contracts at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as of March 15
betting on a gain in the franc versus the dollar, the most since
December 2004, before slipping to 21,301 last week. Traders on
average have held a net 10,029 contracts expecting declines over
that period, according to the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  Abandoning Euros  “The currency we are longest in  Europe  is the Swiss
franc,”  John Taylor , chairman of New York-based FX Concepts
LLC, the world’s largest foreign-exchange hedge fund. “I don’t
see any chance that the flow of money into Switzerland will
change. People just want to get the heck out of the euro.”  Taylor, whose firm’s global currency fund returned 12.53
percent last year, its best performance since before the global
financial crisis, said the franc may appreciate to 1.10 per
euro, or 17.7 percent, as investors seek refuge from Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis, which has forced Greece and Ireland to
seek bailouts from the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund .  The franc may be vulnerable as EU leaders negotiate an aid
mechanism for the region’s most-indebted nations and the
 European Central Bank  raises  interest rates  faster than the SNB.  Optimism Tempered  “We continue to see the franc as a safe haven, but we have
to recognize that a lot of that is priced into the currency,”
said  Axel Merk , president of Merk Investments LLC in  Palo Alto ,
 California . “Yes, we like the Swiss franc but I wouldn’t bet my
house on it.”  The  Merk Hard Currency Fund (MERKX)  has gained 2.86 percent this
year, beating 83 percent of its peers as measured by Bloomberg
data.  The median of at least 30 analyst estimates in Bloomberg
surveys is for the currency to weaken to 1.35 per euro by year-
end, and to 97 centimes per dollar.  Switzerland’s benchmark rate will probably end the year 1
percentage point below that of the ECB, Bloomberg News surveys
of economists show. The SNB’s main rate is 0.25 percent compared
with the ECB’s 1 percent.  Yield Differences  The extra yield that investors get for holding German two-
year notes instead of similar maturity Swiss securities has more
than doubled since Dec. 31, reaching 114 basis points, or 1.14
percentage point, on March 21, the most since June 2009 and up
from last year’s low of 17 basis points in June.  Investors have little concern that the SNB will seek to buy
and sell currencies in an effort to weaken the franc after the
central bank failed at such attempts from March 2009 to June
2010. The intervention contributed to a $21 billion loss for the
SNB last year, according to the central bank.  While Oxford-educated Hildebrand, 47, who has been head of
the central bank since January 2010, and the SNB tried to weaken
the franc on their own, the G-7 jointly sold yen on March 18 as
that currency’s strength threatened  Japan ’s recovery from the
magnitude 9 earthquake. The yen has fallen 6.8 percent to 81.81
per dollar from the postwar high of 76.25 touched on March 17.  In the U.S., the Fed began buying $600 billion of
Treasuries in November in a second round of its quantitative-
easing policy that will run through June. The central bank held
$2.61 trillion of assets as of last week, up from less than $1
trillion in 2008. The Fed has kept its target rate for overnight
loans at a record low of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008.  Relative Growth  The Swiss economy will expand 1.95 percent this year,
lagging behind growth of 2.6 percent in  Germany  and 3.1 percent
in the U.S., according to Bloomberg surveys of economists. While
the SNB raised its growth forecast for this year on March 17 to
about 2 percent from 1.5 percent, the economy is “still facing
considerable risks,” Hildebrand said in Geneva on March 22.  Swiss stocks are trailing their counterparts in Western
Europe. The benchmark Swiss Market Index has declined 1.1
percent this year, compared with a 0.2 percent gain in Germany’s
DAX Index and a 4.3 percent increase by  France ’s CAC 40 Index.  Stephen Urquhart, president of Omega, Swatch’s largest
watch brand, said Swiss companies cope with a strong currency by
focusing on the perceived quality of their products.  ‘We Are Swiss’  “Most people buy our product because we are Swiss, and I
think we just have to face the pros and cons of being a Swiss
company,” he said in an interview March 23. “There are
probably more pros than cons by the way.”  Oerlikon said the franc will reduce its reported revenue by
about 200 million francs ($218 million).  “It would certainly be easier with euros but you can’t
change your reporting currency overnight,” Juerg Fedier, the
company’s chief financial officer, said in an interview.  Swiss exports increased in February as growth in Germany
and  Asia  fueled demand for watches and machinery parts. The
country’s trade surplus widened to 2.49 billion Swiss francs
from 2.04 billion francs the previous month, the Federal Customs
Office in Bern reported on March 22.  “The franc is basically the only safe-haven currency
left,” said Kasper Kirkegaard, a senior strategist at Danske
Bank A/S in Copenhagen, who expects the currency to trade at
about 90 centimes per dollar in six months “The fundaments are
very strong. That speaks in favor of a strong currency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  