-- 
Gulf Gasoline Weakens as Docks Open, Mississippi Level Holding

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-05-18T17:46:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-18/gulf-gasoline-weakens-as-docks-open-mississippi-level-holding.html
Gulf Coast  gasoline weakened after
Magellan Midstream Partners LP opened dock operations, saying
the  Mississippi River  isn’t expected to get higher.  Magellan opened docks at its Marrero, Louisiana, terminal,
which has 2.8 million barrels of heavy fuel oil storage, Bruce Heine, a Magellan spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “This decision was based on an engineering
assessment and current forecasts that the river is cresting and
not expected to increase more than the current level,” he said.
The docks were closed May 13.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Gulf Coast widened 3.75 cents to 14 cents a gallon at 1:31 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery rose
0,58 cent to $2.8226.  Delek US Holdings Inc. reduced production to 60,000 barrels
a day of crude at its El Dorado,  Arkansas , refinery because a
pipeline operator suspended crude shipments to the plant, the
company said in a statement.  Exxon Mobil Corp. shut pipeline segments on three lines
near  Baton Rouge  and Anchorage, Louisiana, to reduce the risk of
flood damage along the Mississippi. The company closed two 12-
inch segments of its North Line System, Patricia Errico, a
company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  North Line starts in St. James, Louisiana, and transports
crude to delivery points including Alon Krotz Springs refinery,
Delek’s El Dorado plant and Exxon’s Baton Rouge plant, according
to a  company website .  Regular gasoline in the Midwest, or Group 3, slipped 2.13
cents to a premium of 1.5 cents a gallon. The fuel rose to a
premium of 9.75 cents May 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 