-- 
Gillard Faces Tax Fight as Labor Loses New South Wales Ballot

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-27T02:29:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/gillard-faces-tax-fight-as-labor-loses-power-in-new-south-wales-election.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  faces a fight over her plans to tax  carbon emissions  and
mining profits after her  Labor party  was defeated in elections
in New South Wales, the country’s most populous state.  Barry O’Farrell’s Liberal-National coalition ended 16 years
of Labor rule, running a campaign that opposed a carbon tax. It
inflicted the worst defeat in Labor’s history and reduced the
party’s representation in the 93-member lower house of
parliament to 19 seats from 50 seats.  “This is doom and gloom for Julia Gillard,” said John Warhurst, a political analyst at  Australian National University .
“If federal-state relations break down, it will be very
difficult for Gillard to get runs on the board -- particularly
on climate and mining laws.”  O’Farrell’s coalition joined those elected in Western
Australia and  Victoria  states since 2008 that oppose Gillard’s
plans to price carbon emissions from next year and place a 30
percent tax on  iron ore  and coal profits. The three states
contribute 67 percent of Australia’s A$1.3 trillion ($1.33
trillion) economy.  “A carbon tax pushes up prices, it threatens jobs,”
O’Farrell told Sky News television today. “You can’t support a
carbon tax and say you’re trying to reduce costs for families.”  O’Farrell, a 51-year-old father of two, said he also
opposed a plan to limit the increase of state mining royalties
through a tax on profits of companies like  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
Rio Tinto Group. The federal government’s levy is forecast to
raise A$7.4 billion in its first two years from 2012.  Revenue Cut  “Mining royalties are clearly important to all states
including New South Wales,” O’Farrell told Sky. “We can’t
afford to have an attempt to reduce our revenues from such
critical areas if we’re to fix our services and fix our
infrastructure.”  O’Farrell’s Liberal Party and its National Party partner
won 16.7 percent more of the vote than it attracted at the
previous election in 2007. The coalition promised to solve
traffic problems in the capital, Sydney, home to more than half
the state’s population of 7.2 million people, and fund more
police, nurses and teachers.  Its four-week campaign also highlighted opposition to
Gillard’s climate change plan. While a carbon tax law has to be
approved by the national Parliament, New South  Wales  voters
signaled their rejection of the proposal.  “The climate plan hurt us,” former Labor state premier
Nathan Rees told reporters in Toongabbie, western Sydney,
yesterday.  Plan Opposed  Fifty-three percent of 1,202 people polled in March 4-6
opposed Gillard’s plan, according to a  Newspoll  published in the
Australian newspaper. It had a margin of error of plus or minus
three percentage points.  Gillard’s Labor Party lost its majority at the August 2010
national election, the closest in 70 years, and relies on the
support of four non-party lawmakers to pass legislation. Gillard,
49, congratulated O’Farrell and said she would work with the
coalition.  “People rightly expect governments of all persuasions to
work together in vital areas such as health, education and
infrastructure to deliver better services and build stronger
communities,” Gillard said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  New South Wales has been the  slowest -growing of  Australia ’s
eight states and territories in the decade to July 2010,
government figures show.  Poor Transport  Premier Kristina Keneally’s Labor government endured public
scandals and was blamed for Sydney’s poor transportation and
shortcomings in education and health services in the state. A
U.S.-born mother of two, Keneally, 42, became the state’s first
female premier in December 2009. She said after the defeat she
wouldn’t contest the leadership of the party again.  “This is an expected but nonetheless historical and
catastrophic defeat for the Labor Party in New South Wales,”
Chris Bowen, immigration minister and Sydney-based federal Labor
lawmaker, said on Channel 10’s “Meet The Press” program. “We
have seen four years of melodrama, of scandals, of changing
premiers.”  O’Farrell won his parliamentary division in 1995 after
being state director of the  Liberal party , according to the
state parliament’s website. His coalition is poised to win 66
seats, with two independents and six seats too close to call,
the NSW Electoral Commission  said .  “It’s a massacre, a slaughter the likes of which none of
us have seen,” New South Wales Labor campaign spokesman and
upper house lawmaker Luke Foley told Australian Broadcasting
Corp. television yesterday. “We have lost our heartland.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  