-- 
Mining, Carbon Tax in Australia Less Likely After Gillard Party State Loss

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-28T04:53:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/gillard-faces-tax-fight-with-new-south-wales-after-labor-ousted.html
The Australian opposition’s victory
in New South  Wales  state elections for the first time in 16
years may signal a growing backlash over Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s taxes on  carbon emissions  and mining profits.  The Liberal-National coalition and its leader in
Australia’s most populous state, Barry O’Farrell, campaigned
against the tax ahead of the March 26 ballot. Labor’s
representation in the 93-member lower house of parliament fell
to 18 seats from 50, it’s worst defeat in the state’s history.  “This is doom and gloom for Julia Gillard,” said John Warhurst, a political analyst at  Australian National University .
“If federal-state relations break down, it will be very
difficult for Gillard to get runs on the board -- particularly
on climate and mining laws.”  O’Farrell’s coalition joined those elected in Western
 Australia  and  Victoria  states since 2008 that oppose Gillard’s
plans to price carbon emissions from next year and place a 30
percent tax on  iron ore  and coal profits. The three states
contribute 67 percent of Australia’s A$1.3 trillion ($1.33
trillion) economy.  “I want to talk to her face-to-face on a range of
issues,” O’Farrell said in Sydney today after being sworn in as
premier, referring to a potential meeting with Gillard. “We
will be briefed this afternoon on the state of New South Wales
finances, we want a financial audit.”  The premier yesterday said he would fight the planned
climate price because it would increase costs for families
through power prices and it would see jobs lost from the state.  Mining Royalties  “It has had some effect,”  Bob Hawke , Labor prime minister
from 1983-1991, said in Canberra about the carbon pricing plan.
“I’m confident, and I have been for some time, that Julia and
federal labor can win this debate.”  O’Farrell, a 51-year-old father of two, said he also
opposed a plan to limit the increase of state mining royalties
through a tax on profits of companies like  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
Rio Tinto Group. The federal government, due to hold its Cabinet
meeting on March 30 in the Western Australia state capital,
Perth, is forecast to raise A$7.4 billion in the levy’s first
two years starting in 2012.  “Mining royalties are clearly important to all states
including New South Wales,” O’Farrell told Sky News yesterday.
“We can’t afford to have an attempt to reduce our revenues from
such critical areas if we’re to fix our services and fix our
infrastructure.”  Traffic Problems  O’Farrell’s Liberal Party and its National Party partner
won 16.7 percent more of the vote than it attracted at the
previous election in 2007. The coalition promised to solve
traffic problems in the capital, Sydney, home to more than half
the state’s population of 7.2 million people, and fund more
police, nurses and teachers.  “The removal of the unpopular government is likely to
initially boost consumer and business confidence within the
state,”  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD
Securities in  Singapore , wrote in a research note yesterday.
“As it is the largest state, this could be a mild positive”
for the Australian dollar and the stock market, she wrote.  O’Farrell’s four-week election campaign also highlighted
opposition to Gillard’s climate change plan. While a carbon tax
law has to be approved by the national Parliament, New South
Wales voters signaled their rejection of the proposal.  Climate Trouble  “The climate plan hurt us,” former Labor state premier
Nathan Rees told reporters in Toongabbie, western Sydney, on
March 26.  Fifty-one percent of 1,016 people polled on March 23-27
opposed Gillard’s plan and 34 percent support it, according to
an  Essential  Media survey. The poll had a margin of error of
plus or minus three percentage points.  Gillard’s  Labor Party  lost its majority at the August 2010
national election, the closest in 70 years, and relies on the
support of four non-party lawmakers to pass legislation.
Gillard, 49, congratulated O’Farrell and said she would work
with the coalition.  “It’s my task as prime minister to work with Mr. O’Farrell
in the interests of his state on areas like education, health
and transport,” Gillard told reporters in Canberra today. “I
always believe reasonable people can sit down and work
together.”  ‘Catastrophic Defeat’  New South Wales has been the  slowest -growing of Australia’s
eight states and territories in the decade to July 2010,
government figures show.  Premier Kristina Keneally’s Labor government endured public
scandals and was blamed for Sydney’s poor transportation and
shortcomings in education and health services in the state. A
U.S.-born mother of two, Keneally, 42, became the state’s first
female premier in December 2009. She said after the defeat she
wouldn’t contest the leadership of the party again.  “This is an expected but nonetheless historical and
catastrophic defeat for the Labor Party in New South Wales,”
Chris Bowen, immigration minister and Sydney-based federal Labor
lawmaker, said yesterday on Channel 10’s “Meet The Press”
program. “We have seen four years of melodrama, of scandals, of
changing premiers.”  O’Farrell won his parliamentary division in 1995 after
being state director of the  Liberal party , according to the
state parliament’s website. His coalition is poised to win 67
seats, with two independents and six seats too close to call,
the NSW Electoral Commission  said .  “It’s a massacre, a slaughter the likes of which none of
us have seen,” New South Wales Labor campaign spokesman and
upper house lawmaker Luke Foley told Australian Broadcasting
Corp. television two days ago. “We have lost our heartland.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  