-- 
Billionaire Li Looks to Hutchison for Growth Amid Hong Kong Property Curbs

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-03-28T14:39:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/li-ka-shing-to-tap-hutchison-as-cheung-kong-s-home-sales-slow.html
Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the
developer controlled by  Hong Kong ’s richest man,  Li Ka-shing ,
may turn to its unit  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  for growth this year
as government curbs slow gains in property sales.  The world’s second-biggest developer by market value will
probably say tomorrow 2010 underlying profit rose 25 percent to
HK$19.2 billion ($2.5 billion) on higher sales before the curbs,
according to the average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Hutchison’s earnings are expected to rise 15 percent
to HK$15 billion, based on the average of 11 analysts.  Li, nicknamed “superman” by the local media for his
investing prowess, is expected to tap Hutchison’s industries
ranging from utilities and mobile phone networks to oil in 52
countries after Hong Kong stepped up property measures in
November to ease speculation in a city where housing prices have
risen more than 65 percent since the start of 2009.  Cheung Kong 
sold about HK$30 billion worth of apartments last year,
according to Bank of America Corp’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit.  The measures “will make it difficult for Cheung Kong to
repeat the same home sales volume this year,” said Adrian Ngan,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. “Investors
will be looking for surprises and new development on Hutchison
and that will likely be the key driver for growth this year.”  Li, who opened a plastic flower factory after World War II,
began investing in Hong Kong real estate in 1967 after riots
from China’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices to build
Cheung Kong into a company with a market value of $36 billion.  ‘Financial Flexibility’  The 82-year-old billionaire may benefit from higher
earnings at Hutchison’s retail and energy businesses as his
biggest company’s European mobile-phone operations end losses,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The improvements will give Hutchison “more financial
flexibility to engage in more mergers and acquisitions and pay
higher dividends,” Benjamin Lo, an analyst at JPMorgan, wrote
in a March 22 report.  Hutchison, the third best-performing stock in the  Hang Seng
Index (HSI)  this year, has surged 71 percent since Aug. 5, when Li
said he will increase dividend payments when his company that
runs so-called third-generation wireless operations in seven
markets in  Europe  and Australia ends losses. The business has
been unprofitable since beginning services in 2003.  Hong Kong’s government in November announced it would
impose additional stamp duties on home transactions and increase
land supply, its toughest price curbs to date. The number of
home transactions declined year-on-year in January and February
in Hong Kong.  Home Sales  The measures probably affected sales of the developer’s
Festival City Phase II, a project in Hong Kong Tai Wai district,
which began a day after the government’s announcement, Merrill
Lynch analysts led by Karl Choi wrote in a Feb. 8 report.  The developer aims to sell about HK$20 billion worth of
homes in Hong Kong this year from 11 projects including Lohas
Park in the Tseung Kwan O district and Uptown in Yuen Long
district, the Standard newspaper reported in January, citing
Cheung Kong’s Executive Director Justin Chiu.  Cheung Kong’s shares lost 0.4 percent to HK$121.90 at teh
close in Hong Kong, paring the gain this year to 1.7 percent.
The stock is the still second-best performer in the seven-member
Hang Seng Property Index, which has fallen 2.8 percent. It’s the
world’s largest developer after Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.,
also based in Hong Kong.  Curbs Impact  In  China , where Cheung Kong has sold apartments in cities
including  Shanghai , Beijing, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Shenzhen and
Chongqing in 2010, the company may see sales growth slow this
year as the Chinese government also implemented measures to curb
prices. Cheung Kong probably sold about HK$7.2 billion worth of
homes in China during 2010, the Merrill Lynch analysts wrote.  “It’s hard to say how much impact the curbing measures
will have on sales,” said Eva Lee, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Macquarie Securities Ltd. “Cheung Kong has such a wide network
in mainland China. So even if curbs in Beijing or Shanghai start
to affect sales, they may still be able to make up for that from
other cities.”  Cheung Kong’s mainland China business accounts for 41
percent of the group’s gross asset, the highest among major Hong
Kong developers, according to Barclays Capital Research.  Li, who arrived in Hong Kong as a refugee from China in
1940, is preparing for an initial public offering of Hui Xian, a
real estate investment trust backed by the Oriental Plaza
commercial properties in central Beijing. The share sale will be
Hong Kong’s first yuan-denominated IPO.  Buying Hutchison Shares  The billionaire, ranked the city’s richest by  Forbes  this
month after his net worth increased $5 billion to $26 billion,
bought 5.9 million Hutchison shares at an average price of
HK$59.35 in August, his biggest investment in the company in at
least seven years. The stock fell 0.4 percent to HK$90.70 today.  The investment came days after Cheung Kong and Hutchison
both reported first-half earnings that beat estimates and after
Li said he’s optimistic about the world economy and China’s
growth. Hutchison has risen about 50 percent since then.  Li, also ranked by Forbes as the 11th richest worldwide,
also controls Canadian oil producer  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE) , which is
developing gas fields in the  South China Sea  with Cnooc Ltd.  Hutchison also spun off its ports assets in Hong Kong and
southern China in Hutchison Port Holdings Trust in a $5.5
billion listing in  Singapore  this month, the biggest initial
public offering in the world this year.  Seeking Acquisitions  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd., the road and
utility company controlled by Li, is looking to “vigorously”
pursue acquisitions globally, Li’s elder son Victor Li, chairman
of the unit, said in a March 2 briefing. The company is looking
at 20 assets globally for possible acquisitions, Li said.  The company has invested in electricity, gas, water and road
assets in  Australia ,  Canada , the U.K.,  New Zealand  and China to
counter slowing growth in the power distribution market in its
home market, Hong Kong. In July, a group led by Cheung Kong
Infrastructure offered 5.8 billion pounds ($9.3 billion) for
Electricite de France SA’s U.K. power networks, in Li’s biggest
acquisition.  Li forecast in 2007 that China’s stock-market bubble would
burst and in 2009 predicted the rally in Hong Kong home prices.
The Shanghai Composite Index lost 65 percent in 2008, the most
among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  