-- 
Libya Can Tap $7 Billion in Gold Reserves for War: Chart of the Day

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-03-27T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/libya-can-tap-7-billion-in-gold-reserves-for-war-chart-of-the-day.html
Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  can
tap gold reserves worth $7 billion, equivalent to a 10th of the
size of his country’s economy, as he fights a civil war and
resists air strikes from a western-led coalition.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows Libya holds more bullion as a
proportion of gross domestic product than any country except
Lebanon, according to the London-based World Gold Council using
January data from the  International Monetary Fund . The value of
gold is based on the March 25 close of $1,429.74 an ounce.  “He has all that gold? It’s probably in the central bank
of Libya,” said Faraj Najem, a London-based Libyan writer and
historian. “He has plenty of cash and if he’s got gold, it’s
even better since he can pay mercenaries in a commodity that is
easily exchangeable.”  The North African nation is sitting on 143.8 metric tons of
gold at a time the price of the precious metal has fluctuated
near a record high of $1,448.60 an ounce.  Libya  is the fourth-
biggest holder of gold in the Middle East and  Africa .  Qaddafi’s access to gold that Alessandro Politi, a former
adviser to the Italian Defense Ministry, says is probably kept
in domestic vaults will become critical as authorities worldwide
step up efforts freeze his assets. The European Union last week
extended sanctions against Libya to include asset freezes on  oil
companies  beyond those listed in the March 18 United Nations
Security Council resolution that authorized a no-fly zone over
the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  