-- 
IMF’s Strauss-Kahn Says Latin America Needs to Reduce Volatility of Growth

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-03-27T03:56:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/imf-s-strauss-kahn-says-latin-america-needs-to-reduce-growth-volatility.html
Latin America needs to reduce the
volatility of its economic growth by focusing on financial
stability and diversifying the region’s economies, said
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn , managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund .  “Growth in most Latin American economies is now back at
potential, or above -- and in many of them there are worrisome
signs of overheating,” Strauss-Kahn said in a statement
released at a meeting of the  Inter-American Development Bank  in
Calgary. “Clearly, the earlier economic stimulus needs to be
reversed.”  Economic growth in the region will slow to 4.5 percent this
year from 6.1 percent in 2010 as inflation and rising interest
rates curb expansion, the  Institute of International Finance 
said yesterday in Calgary. Kahn told the region’s finance
ministers at a meeting yesterday that IMF isn´t against the use
of some  capital controls  to curb currency appreciation, marking
a divergence from 20 years of macro-economic philosophy, said
Juan Carlos Echeverry,  Colombia ´s finance minister.  “There are reasons to be suspicious about capital
controls,” Echeverry told reporters at the conference. “In the
Americas we have diversity of size and development. What we´ve
learned is that there are no one-size-fits-all measures.”  Emerging markets are diverging in their policies to deal
with currency strength and faster inflation. Colombia’s central
bank said Feb. 25 it will extend daily dollar purchases in the
local market for at least three more months. Countries from
Brazil and  Chile  to  South Korea  have taken steps such as raising
taxes on foreign purchases of bonds to stem currency gains that
hurt export growth.  ‘Different Business’  Multi-lateral lenders are focusing more on consulting Latin
American countries on how to undo bottlenecks in its economies
and invest efficiently, rather than lend large sums of money for
infrastructure projects, said Pamela Cox, the  World Bank ’s vice
president for Latin America and the Caribbean, in an interview
yesterday at the event.  “We´re in a different business now,” she said. “We don´t
need to lay cement; they know how to build roads. But they may
need us for logistics consultation or finding ways to integrate
their transportation systems.”  Caribbean finance ministers’ concerns over rising food
prices differ with those of agricultural exporters in Brazil and
 Argentina , whose economies are benefiting from the surge in
commodity prices, said Cox. The inflation outlook throughout the
region has deteriorated after  oil prices  surged the past month
on concern that unrest in Libya will stunt crude supply,
exacerbating speculation economies are overheating in  Brazil ,
 Peru , Colombia, Chile and Argentina.  Tightening Cycle  “A monetary tightening cycle has already begun in several
of these countries, and we expect others to move in that
direction during the course of the year,” Frederick Jaspersen,
IIF director for Latin America, said in a statement. “This,
together with gradual withdrawal of fiscal stimulus, will dampen
growth.”  As the region is more integrated to global markets, it will
also be more exposed to the volatility of capital inflows, and
while capital controls might be useful “in some cases,” they
should not replace the implementation of more regulation,
Strauss-Kahn said.  “A range of policies could be used to prevent overheating
and dampen the credit cycle, including upward exchange rate
flexibility, a more appropriate mix of monetary and fiscal
policies, and adequate financial regulations including a macro-
prudential approach,” Strauss-Kahn said in the statement.  The region is being flooded by external investment, with
net inflows of about $237 billion this year, Jaspersen said.  Stronger Currencies  These inflows will continue to strengthen the currencies
in the region, and capital control measures, such as the ones
introduced by Brazil, will be of little effect, said the IIF,
whose members include 430 financial institutions worldwide.  “Tightening in fiscal policy would allow  interest rates  to
be lower, thus taking the upward pressure off the real in a more
sustained fashion,” said the IFF regional overview, released
today in Calgary.  Countries in the region have been raising interest rates
this year to slow inflation and pare demand.  Brazil raised its Selic rate by a half-point to 11.75
percent on March 2, Uruguay raised its benchmark rate a full
percentage point, more than expected, to 7.5 percent on March 23,
while Peru, Chile and Colombia have also been increasing
borrowing costs.  Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy, will grow 4.8
percent this year, while  Mexico ’s gross domestic product will
rise 4.5 percent and Chile’s 6.5 percent, the IIF report said.
Economic growth in Latin America will reach 4.6 percent in 2012,
the IIF added in its regional overview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in Calgary at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net 
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  