-- 
Investa Property Takes Over Management Rights, Renames ING Office Fund

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-03-28T06:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/investa-assumes-management-rights-renames-ing-office-fund-1-.html
Investa Property Group , a real-
estate firm owned by  Morgan Stanley (MS) , has agreed to take over the
management of an Australian commercial property fund from  ING
Groep NV (INGA) ’s real-estate arm.  ING Real Estate Investment Management  Australia  will pay
Investa annual management fees, starting at A$8.6 million ($8.8
million) for the period to June 30, 2012, to manage  ING Office
Fund (IOF) , Sydney-based Investa said in an e-mailed release. The fund
will be renamed the Investa Office Fund, while its Australian
stock exchange ticker stays unchanged, Investa said.  ING Groep, the biggest Dutch financial-services company,
last month agreed to sell most of its real-estate investment
management unit to CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. for $940 million
to shrink its balance sheet. Unitholders of ING Industrial Fund
agreed earlier this month to sell their holdings to a group led
by  Goodman Group , Australia’s largest industrial property trust.  The deal leaves ING Healthcare Fund, ING Entertainment Fund
and the ING Community Living Fund in ING’s hands as it seeks to
exit its real-estate fund management business in Australia. IOF
has A$1.6 billion under management in Australia, and A$2.6
billion when its overseas assets are included.  Investa will own or manage a total of 60 assets valued at
about A$8.3 billion following the transaction, it said. Investa
will also purchase a 2.5 percent stake in IOF currently owned by
ING entities, ING said in a statement. ING Management Ltd. will
remain the responsible entity for the IOF assets, with plans for
Investa to replace or acquire it with shareholder approval in
future, the company said.  IOF shares added 3.5 percent to 59.5 Australian cents at
the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ; 