-- 
IPhone Versus Soviet Subterfuge Make Fukushima No Chernobyl

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-03-28T07:20:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/iphone-apps-versus-soviet-subterfuge-make-fukushima-no-chernobyl.html
Tamara Kruglikova waited days for
Soviet officials to announce the  Chernobyl nuclear disaster 
about 140 kilometers (87 miles) from her home.  Hiroshi Ishikawa 
posts radiation levels every 30 seconds online to supplement
Japanese government reports on the fallout from Fukushima.  On April 26, 1986, as Chernobyl’s ruptured reactor spewed
 radiation  into the air, children in Kruglikova’s city of Gomel
played outdoors and adults prepared for  May 1 rallies . The one
curiosity was why the mud turned an orange-yellow color after it
drizzled, she said in a telephone interview from Gomel.  “The Japanese cannot even imagine what  ignorance  we lived
in,” said Kruglikova, a 60-year-old literature teacher.
“Everything we knew at first was basically just rumor, but many
people trusted the official line.”  The participation of people like Ishikawa makes  Japan ’s
handling of what Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  called the biggest
crisis since World War II that much more challenging due to
public scrutiny. No sooner had Kan declared a nuclear state of
emergency, five hours after the quake, than websites such as
Twitter and Facebook were offering alternative information.  “Social media pushes the government to act more quickly,”
said Laura Roeder, a social media marketing consultant based in
 Los Angeles . “Governments can’t hide information anymore. It
can spread too quickly to too many people.”  Chernobyl Comparison  The March 11 magnitude-9 quake and 7-meter tsunami that
followed disabled cooling systems at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant. The build-up of pressure caused hydrogen explosions that
damaged at least three reactors, leaking radiation.  The United Nation’s  International Atomic Energy Agency 
measured the disaster at 5 out of 7. Chernobyl was the only
accident to be ranked a 7 as 1,200 tons of graphite and
radioactive matter were ejected into the air, polluting land and
increasing cancer rates, according to the  World Nuclear
Association .  Unlike their Soviet counterparts, Japanese residents have
followed the drama via non-stop media coverage including
briefings by the government, plant operator Tokyo Electric Power
Co. and nuclear agency. Officials are pushed to publish
everything from the status of each reactor to the level of
radiation found in local spinach.  The words “millisievert” and “Becquerel” --measurements
of radiation -- have entered the daily vernacular, and the
anonymous 50 nuclear workers who initially tackled the disaster
became a  blog  phenomenon.  Monopolize Information  Ishikawa, a former researcher at  Nippon Telegraph &
Telephone Corp. (9432) , uses data from a Geiger counter he bought six
years ago for $200. His  website  has attracted more than 300,000
visitors, up from 1,000 before the quake, he said.  “Governments and institutions that might have sought to
monopolize information in the old days now face an era when
almost anyone has the ability to publicize,” Ishikawa, 68, said
by phone in Tokyo. “The tools are completely different from 25
years ago, the level of knowledge and comprehension of people
receiving the data has risen considerably.”  Twitter Inc., a social-networking site, set up a special
page in English and Japanese with information on rescue efforts,
evacuation, medical advice and how to donate money. It also
advised users to create special tags for their messages related
to the crisis.  Social Networks  Hitomi Ito, a 37-year-old manager at a food store in
Fukushima city, uses  Mixi Inc. (2121) ’s online network to hunt down
scarce gasoline and food stuffs. Following a lead from Mixi
postings, Ito, who has been using the service for five years,
arrived at a local gas station to find herself 89th in line.  “I rely on this for everything, how else are you supposed
to get this kind of information,” she said.  Kruglikova said she heard news of an accident at Chernobyl
by word of mouth and from reports on  Radio Liberty , a U.S.
station set up to broadcast into communist countries. Even after
the Soviet government acknowledged the accident, the propaganda
machine downplayed the radiation impact, she said.  The Kremlin suppressed reports about the accident until
April 28 and delayed evacuation of the town of Pripyat near the
site for 40 hours, according to  “The Long Road to Recovery,”  a
book published by the  United Nations  in 1996. The authorities
pushed Chernobyl stories to back pages of newspapers, it said.  Radiation Trackers  Kruglikova’s school had no Geiger counters and little idea
what effects radiation could have. Speculation that iodine might
be an antidote resulted in several poisonings as people mixed it
with milk without caring for the dose, she said.  More than 60 Japanese sites post radiation levels from
around the country, while  private companies  have set up their
own monitoring to keep employees and the public updated.
Readings in Tokyo soared 21-fold to as much as 0.809
microsieverts an hour on March 15, compared with 0.0338
microsieverts before the quake, according to the Tokyo
Metropolitan Institute of  Public Health . That’s still less than
1/100th of the radiation dose from a single chest X-ray.  Radioactive Iodine-131 was detected at 210 becquerel per
kilogram at a water purification plant in Tokyo, more than
double the limit for infants, the city’s water department said
on March 23. The report triggered bulk buying of bottled water
at supermarkets and convenience stores even as the government
said the health risks are minimal.  Apps to the Rescue  Japan’s population has flocked to download reference
software and set up blogs. Medical reference, navigation and
transportation software for the iPhone topped application
downloads at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iTunes Store in Japan after the quake,
according to PositionApp.  “Yurekuru Call for iPhone,” an early warning earthquake
notification service, “Flashlight-4,” which uses the screen as
a light source, and a location app for the nearest hospitals and
convenience stores, were among the top downloads, it said.  Radiation fears are especially poignant in Japan because of
the fallout from the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and
Nagasaki in 1945 by the U.S. to end the war, Ishikawa said.  “People are frightened by radiation because you can’t
touch or smell it, can’t confirm it with your five senses,” he
said.  Still, one danger with the wealth of information, public
and private, is its sheer volume, he said.  “It increases the amount of noise, false, ungrounded and
manipulative information that may cause panic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  