-- 
Ireland Seeks to Force Losses on Banks’ Senior Bondholders

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-03-28T16:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/ireland-seeks-to-share-bank-loss-burdens-with-bond-holders-noonan-says.html
Ireland said it wants to impose
losses on banks’ senior bondholders, increasing the pressure on
European policy makers to cut the costs of its bailout and
provide longer-term financing for the country’s lenders.  The government, which took office last month, wants “a
sustainable and comprehensive solution that involves
recapitalization, but also an element of burden sharing as well
as a funding package for Irish banks,” Agriculture Minister
Simon Coveney told broadcaster  RTE  in an interview yesterday.
“A lot of delicate and difficult discussions are going to take
place over next two to three weeks, if not slightly longer.”  The government is raising the prospect of losses for senior
bondholders to win a cut in the interest charges on its bailout
and secure medium-term funding from the  European Central Bank 
for its banks. European Union authorities opposed the imposition
of losses on senior bondholders amid concern that could cause
the debt crisis to spread to Spain and  Portugal . Ireland is also
under pressure from Germany and  France  to raise its  corporation
tax  from 12.5 percent, one of the lowest rates in the EU.  “It’s perhaps a negotiation tactic to try to get a better
deal out of Europe,” said  Alan McQuaid , economist at Bloxham
Stockbrokers. “They aren’t going to trade the corporation tax
level, so they don’t have much else to negotiate with.”  Stress Tests  The incoming government may have to inject 27.5 billion
euros ($38.7 billion) into the lenders after the central bank
publishes the  stress tests  on March 31, according to a survey of
10 analysts and economists by Bloomberg News. Nationalized
lenders Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building
Society and the four banks the government deems viable have 16.4
billion euros in senior unguaranteed unsecured bonds, according
to the central bank. By discounting their debt, the government
could cut the banks’ capital needs.  “It’s more a political exercise, as it seems to be
confined to the unviable banks, and you don’t make a massive
saving by doing that,” said Brian Devine, an economist at NCB
Stockbrokers in Dublin. “To make a real impact, you have to
take on the whole lot, but I don’t see that. The trade-off may
well be protecting the bondholders in return for the medium-term
ECB financing.”  Coveney said that “markets are already ahead of us” in
accepting that there is “a possibility, if not a likelihood,
that bondholders may have to share some of the pain.”  Bank of Ireland Plc fell 2.3 percent to 25.8 euro cents at
the 5:10 p.m. close of Dublin trading today and  Allied Irish
Banks Plc (ALBK)  rose 2.7 percent at 19 euro cents.  Enda Kenny   Senior unsecured bonds of Irish banks were little changed.
The 750 million euros of 5.625 percent notes due 2014 issued by
Allied Irish were at 73 cents on the euro to yield 16 percent,
according to Jefferies International prices. Bank of Ireland’s
1.47 billion euros of floating-rate bonds due in September were
at 91 to yield about 20 percent, according to Jefferies.  Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny said on March 25 that talks
with the European Central Bank on fixing the banks will resume
after the stress tests are published, with the government
pushing the ECB to create medium-term funding for Irish banks.  The ECB is considering Kenny’s request, the Irish Times
reported on March 26, without citing anyone.  “Such a commitment will remove investors’ perception of a
withdrawal of ECB support so that alternative private sector
finance is more likely to be found,” Conall MacCoille, an
analyst at Davy, the Dublin-based securities firm, wrote in a
note today.  ECB Funding  Irish-based lenders’ reliance on short-term ECB cash soared
38 percent to 116.9 billion euros in the year through February,
while their dependence on the Irish central bank jumped almost
fivefold to 70.1 billion euros.  Coveney told the Dublin-based broadcaster “the
government’s aim is to minimize taxpayers’ exposure to debts
that have been incurred in the past by private banks that are
now predominately owned by the state and also ensure that we
have a flow of funds” into banks.  The state has already injected about 46 billion euros into
the financial system after it extended a guarantee in 2008 to
cover almost all the liabilities of six of the country’s
lenders. The government is winding down both Anglo Irish and
Irish Nationwide. It has designated the remaining four -- Bank
of Ireland, Allied Irish, Irish Life & Permanent Plc and EBS
Building Society -- as viable banks and is stress-testing them.  The country sought a bailout last year after the cost of
guaranteeing the banks soared. The Irish yield premium over
benchmark 10-year German bonds, which reached a record of 698
basis points on March 24, was 7 basis points narrower at 676
points at the close of trading.  “There are many people in  Europe  who want Ireland to give
a guarantee to all of its bank creditors including senior
bondholders and everybody else,” Coveney said. “The reality is
if that guarantee undermines the very creditworthiness of the
Irish state, then our government can’t sign up that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   evans3@bloomberg.net . 