-- 
Israel Deploys Iron Dome Anti-Rocket System After Gaza Violence Escalates

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 
2011-03-27T11:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/israel-deploys-iron-dome-anti-rocket-system-after-gaza-violence-escalates.html
Israel  will begin setting up its
Iron Dome missile defense system in the south of the country
after an upsurge in attacks from the  Gaza Strip .  “I don’t want to create an illusion that Iron Dome, which
we’re deploying today, will give a complete or comprehensive
answer” to rockets from Gaza, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
said at a Cabinet meeting, according to an e-mail from his
office. “The real answer to the missile threat is a mix of
offensive measures, deterrence and defensive measures.”  An Israeli airstrike on the Gaza Strip today killed two
Palestinians, according to Adham Abu Selmeya, chief of emergency
medical services in Gaza. The Israeli  air force  was targeting a
group attempting to launch rockets, the army said.  Thirteen people have been killed in Israeli strikes on Gaza
since March 19, some of them civilians, and more than 30 have
been wounded. Palestinians have fired more than 85 rockets and
shells into Israel. There have been no deaths from those
attacks. Israeli government officials blamed Palestinians for a
March 23 bomb attack in  Jerusalem  that killed one person.  Hamas and other Palestinian factions in Gaza said yesterday
they are willing to halt rocket attacks provided Israel ceases
military actions against the Palestinian enclave.  “We are committed to calm as long as Israel is committed
to it,” the groups said in an e-mailed statement after a three-
hour meeting in Gaza yesterday.  ‘Won’t Hesitate’  Netanyahu said at the Cabinet meeting that Israel “won’t
hesitate” to respond to attacks, though it has no interest in
violence increasing.  Palestinian Authority  President  Mahmoud Abbas  on March 16
offered to visit Gaza to heal an almost four-year rift with the
Hamas movement, which refuses to recognize Israel or any
agreements signed with it. Abbas met yesterday with Hamas
officials in the  West Bank  to arrange his Gaza visit,
Palestinian television reported.  Hamas seized full control of Gaza in 2007 after ending a
partnership with Fatah, the main movement within the Palestinian
Authority, leaving the authority controlling the West Bank.
Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
European Union and the U.S.  Israeli-Palestinian peace talks stalled in September after
Netanyahu refused to extend a 10-month partial construction
freeze in the West Bank settlements. Abbas has said he won’t
negotiate unless all building stops.  Iron Dome aims to defend against rocket fire from Gaza and
Lebanon. The system fires interceptor missiles against short-
range rockets and artillery shells with ranges up to 70
kilometers (45 miles), according to Rafael, the Israeli defense
company that designed it. President  Barack Obama , as part of the
U.S. promise to guarantee Israel’s security, last year pledged
$205 million for the deployment of the system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg. 