-- 
Japan’s Government Bonds Decline on Bets Reconstruction Will Boost Growth

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-03-28T06:17:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/japan-government-bonds-may-rise-on-bets-nuclear-concern-will-boost-demand.html
Japan ’s bonds fell for a second day
on speculation rebuilding efforts after the March 11 earthquake
will boost the economy and worsen the nation’s fiscal situation.  Benchmark 10-year yields rose after Prime Minister  Naoto
Kan ’s government said last week the temblor may have caused as
much as 25 trillion yen ($306 billion) of damage. Bonds also
fell before a report forecast to show U.S.  consumer spending 
increased and as the yen weakened against the dollar, boosting
the earnings outlook for Japan’s exporters.  “Expectations are rising about rebuilding efforts and
their effects on the economy,” said Makoto Noji, a senior debt
and foreign-exchange strategist at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.
in Tokyo. Yields below 1.25 percent “seem to be rather low.”  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March 2021 rose two
basis points to 1.24 percent as of 3:05 p.m. in  Tokyo  at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price fell 0.179 yen to 100.532 yen.  Ten-year yields have fallen 1.5 basis points this month. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery declined 0.16 to
139.64 as of the afternoon close at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
Japan’s government bonds have handed investors a loss of 0.4
percent this quarter, according to an index compiled by Merrill
Lynch & Co.  Consumer spending in the U.S. rose 0.5 percent in February,
after increasing 0.2 percent in January, a Bloomberg News survey
of economists showed before today’s report. The yen fell 0.5
percent to 81.75 per dollar.  ‘V-shaped’ Recovery  The number of dead and missing from the March 11
earthquake, tsunami and subsequent aftershocks reached 27,116,
while the disaster set off the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl at Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant north of Tokyo.  Reconstruction efforts “may lead to a V-shaped economic
recovery, push up yields in the future and steepen the yield
curve: This view is weighing on bonds,” said  Tetsuya Miura ,
chief market analyst in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co. “But
bonds are not being sold, either, as it seems it will take time
before rebuilding projects can start and the Fukushima nuclear
plant situation gets sorted out.”  The spread in yield between 5- and 20-year debt was 156
basis points today. The gap reached 158 basis points on March
15, the widest since December.  A yield curve is a chart that plots the yields of bonds of
the same quality with different maturities. It steepens when
yields on shorter-maturity notes fall, those on longer-dated
bonds rise, or both happen simultaneously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  