-- 
Japan’s Post-Earthquake Rebuilding Begins With Prefab Housing for Evacuees

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-03-27T07:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/japan-s-post-earthquake-rebuilding-begins-with-prefab-housing-for-evacuees.html
Japan ’s  Miyagi prefecture  will
begin building 1,110 temporary homes tomorrow as regional
authorities seek to resettle more than 243,000 people displaced
by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Construction will begin in 13 cities and towns, including
the prefectural capital Sendai, with the first phase taking
about a month to build, said Masanori Takahashi, a spokesman at
Miyagi’s department of public works. Building has already
started in neighboring Iwate and Fukushima prefectures, which
along with Miyagi were the hardest-hit by the disaster.  Refugees living in shelters are suffering from shortages of
heating fuel, food, clothes and sanitary items more than two
weeks after the disaster. At least 10,668 people have died and
more than 135,000 buildings were destroyed or damaged. Influenza
is spreading at some of the 383 shelters in Iwate, authorities
there said yesterday.  “There are too many challenges to list, but the priority
is to provide housing that has all the necessities to live a
normal life,” Miyagi’s Takahashi said today by phone.  The prefecture has requested 10,000 housing units from the
 Japan Prefabricated Construction Suppliers and Manufacturers
Association , he said. Daiwa House Industry Co.,  Sekisui House
Ltd. (1928)  and Misawa Homes Co. are among the industry group’s
members.  Fukushima, Iwate  Fukushima prefecture, where radiation leaks triggered
evacuation of areas near two nuclear  power plants , began
building temporary homes on March 23 and targets 14,000 units. A
further 5,000 will be provided by the private sector and 1,000
public housing units will be added, Tadahiro Nouchi, head of
Fukushima’s housing and building division, said today by phone.  Iwate plans to build 8,800 temporary homes, a number that
is likely to rise, said Takato Nishio, a spokesman for the
prefecture’s housing and building division. Construction of 36
units in four cities began March 19 and will be completed by the
end of this week. Building will begin in two more towns
tomorrow, he said.  Residents will be allowed to live in the homes rent-free
for at least two years, according to Takahashi and Nouchi. Units
will include living rooms, kitchens, toilets, baths, lighting,
air conditioning, curtains and gas stoves, Takahashi said.  Some Go Home  Evacuees from the disaster numbered 243,049 as of 3 p.m.
today, including 85,039 in Miyagi, 86,313 in Fukushima and
43,879 in Iwate, according to the  National Police Agency  in
 Tokyo .  More than 12,000 buildings were destroyed or damaged in
Iwate, along with more than 10,000 in Fukushima and 8,000 in
Miyagi, police said.  The number of evacuees in Miyagi fell from a peak of about
300,000, as restored utilities allowed many people who still
have houses to go home, a spokesman for the local disaster
control headquarters said yesterday.  Authorities still have to feed many of those who have
returned, and they may need to provide basic necessities for
people in shelters for two to three months, said the spokesman,
who asked to be identified only by his last name, Tokairin. With
food in short supply, relief workers are struggling to provide
people with just two meals a day, mostly consisting of rice
balls and bread, he said.  In Iwate, medical teams faced difficulties accessing some
areas to deliver medicines to people suffering from influenza,
Naoto Wakuishi, a prefectural spokesman, said yesterday. People
with the flu were being separated from others in shelters to
limit the spread of disease, he said.  While roads have been cleared and electricity is returning
gradually, essential utilities still haven’t been restored in
Iwate, Wakuishi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Osaka at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  