-- 
Japan Air Exits Administration With $3 Billion Financing, Smaller Network

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-03-28T12:21:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/japan-air-focuses-on-tie-ups-as-once-world-s-no-1-exits-court-protection.html
Japan  Airlines Corp. exited
bankruptcy-court administration after shedding about a third of
its staff, grounding 103 planes and winning 255 billion yen ($3
billion) in funding from financial institutions.  “Finally, the thinking has changed at JAL,” Chairman
Kazuo Inamori told reporters in Tokyo today. “People have
realized that if we don’t take care of things ourselves no one
is going to do it for us.”  The carrier has scaled back its global network, chopping 49
routes, including  Sao Paulo , Amsterdam and Milan, and retiring
the last remnants of what was the world’s largest  Boeing Co. (BA)  747
fleet. It has offset the cuts by boosting cooperation with
partners in the Oneworld grouping, including a venture with
 American Airlines  that is due to start on April 1 and increased
codesharing with Hong Kong-based  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)   “JAL has to be far more open-minded about its future than
being a standalone airline,” said Mike Newman, head of sales at
Macquarie Capital Securities (Japan) Ltd. “It all comes down to
sustainability of earnings.”  The Tokyo-based airline, which posted three losses in four
years before entering administration in January 2010, also said
today it would pare international services for about three weeks
next month as travel plunges following Japan’s strongest
recorded earthquake and because of concerns about radiation
leaking from a crippled nuclear-power plant.  Quake Flight Cuts  The cuts include reductions in services from Tokyo’s Narita
Airport, Japan’s main international gateway, to  Hong Kong ,
Beijing and Honolulu, according to a statement. JAL’s
international passenger numbers have tumbled 25 percent year-on-
year since the March 11 quake, while domestic trips are down 28
percent, President Masaru Onishi told reporters.  Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corp. of Japan, the state-
backed fund that has led JAL’s turnaround, will have 97 percent
of the  voting rights  in the carrier after injecting 350 billion
yen of capital. Another eight companies have bought 12.7 billion
of shares, boosting total capital to 362.7 billion yen,
according to a statement. The 255 billion yen in financing came
from 11 financial institutions.  ETIC, which can work with JAL until January 2013 under its
own regulations, may apply to sell shares in the carrier by
March 2012, Hideo Seto, head of the committee leading the
restructuring, said last year. The carrier will also be re-named
Japan Airlines Co. from April 1.  JAL Delisted  JAL was delisted from the  Tokyo  stock exchange in February,
2010, wiping out shareholders in a company that was worth more
than $6 billion less than a year earlier. As part of its
turnaround, the carrier has revived the crane livery it used in
the mid-1980s, when it was the world’s largest airline for
international traffic, according to its  website .  The carrier’s reduced role has seen it shun the new 747-8
and Airbus SAS’s A380 superjumbo in favor of smaller planes
including 35 on-order 787 Dreamliners.  “I don’t think it will be growing back to where it was,”
said Peter Kenworthy, a project director of aviation at Mott
MacDonald Group Ltd. “It will probably be looking to increase
capacity through its alliances.”  JAL will cooperate with AMR Corp.’s American on 10
transpacific routes, including New York-Tokyo and Beijing-
Chicago. The tie-up will generate sales gains and cost savings
of about $150 million a year for the two carriers as they share
costs and coordinate fares, American said in January. The
venture will have annual sales of about $1.5 billion, it said.  JAL-Oneworld Tie-Ups?  JAL wants to pursue similar tie-ups with other Oneworld
airlines, Onishi said in January. International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA’s British Airways unit and Qantas Airways Ltd.
are also members of the grouping. JAL has also talked to Qantas’
Jetstar budget unit as it considers forming its own low-cost arm.  All Nippon will begin a transpacific accord with United
Continental Holdings Inc. on the same day as the JAL-American
alliance starts. The Tokyo-based carrier has also applied to
form a similar partnership with Deutsche Lufthansa AG on flights
to  Germany . All Nippon, United and Lufthansa are all members of
 Star Alliance .  JAL had shed 14,500 jobs through December, against a target
of 16,000, by closing and selling units, offering early
retirement and firing some workers. Creditors including
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group, Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and state-owned  Development
Bank  of Japan have also agreed to forgive 522 billion yen of
debt.  The steps helped JAL making an operating profit of 110
billion yen for the April-September period, compared with a loss
of 96 billion yen a year earlier.  “There’s been so much direct and indirect government
involvement, they have been given a pretty good leg-up,” said
 Peter Harbison , managing director at the Sydney-based Centre for
Asia Pacific Aviation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  