-- 
Kan Told to Decentralize Japan on Tokyo Annihilation Danger

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-03-28T09:44:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/kan-told-to-decentralize-japan-as-aide-says-big-one-may-annihilate-tokyo.html
Takayoshi Igarashi has spent much
of his career railing against  Japan ’s public-works spending
culture. Now, he’s advocating what could become the nation’s
biggest investment in urban planning in decades.  Two days before Japan suffered its record earthquake and a
devastating tsunami on March 11, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
appointed Igarashi as a Cabinet adviser on coping with Japan’s
population decline and rural-region decay. Igarashi says the
disaster has made clear the nation must reduce the role of its
capital city to avert an even greater catastrophe.  “I told the prime minister that nationwide dispersal is
the first thing we need to do as we rebuild,” Igarashi, a
professor at  Hosei University  in Tokyo, said in an interview
after meeting with Kan last week. “We have no idea when the big
one’s going to hit  Tokyo , but when it does, it’s going to
annihilate the entire country because everything is here.”  To start with, Igarashi is pressing for a reconstruction
package of at least 20 trillion yen ($245 billion), a figure
that matches calls from Diet members from both the ruling and
largest opposition party. Such an effort would amount to almost
half the 44.3 trillion yen cap on bond sales that Kan pledged
for the fiscal year starting April 1, risking a surge in yields
should the spending be financed through debt.  Funding Challenge  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters in Tokyo
yesterday it’s too early to consider how to fund the rebuilding
plan. Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  said
three days ago that some combination of financing may be needed
for the supplementary budget to be compiled next month.  Igarashi favors a tax increase rather than debt sales,
proposing a 2 percentage point rise in the  sales tax  to 7
percent. About two-thirds of Japanese in a Kyodo News survey
said they favor boosting taxes to fund the recovery, the  news
agency  said yesterday. Kan’s approval rating rose 8.4 percentage
points, to 28.3 percent, Kyodo said.  Some lawmakers have also endorsed a tax increase. Ikkou
Nakatsuka, deputy chairman of the ruling party’s tax committee,
said in an interview last week that “we can’t avoid raising
taxes as the great earthquake may worsen an already dangerous
fiscal situation.”  Bond investors have yet to signal concern at the
reconstruction cost, with yields on benchmark 10-year notes
closing at 1.245 percent today in Tokyo, down from 1.31 percent
the day before the earthquake.  Factory Shutdowns  More than two weeks since the magnitude-9.0 temblor and
ensuing tsunami hit, companies are still struggling to bring
factories back online. Toyota Motor Corp. said it has lost
output of 140,000 vehicles, and Honda Motor Co. has seen a
production loss of 46,600 cars and trucks and 5,000 motorcycles.  Kan’s view is that while the immediate task of officials is
to control the crisis at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, he understands the need for economic
dispersal, said Igarashi, who was at the Cabinet Office when the
quake hit. Stranded with no train service, he slept in a chair
before going home the next day.  “People are concerned about the risks that come with
focusing everything in greater Tokyo,” Hideo Hayakawa, the Bank
of Japan’s  Osaka  branch chief, said in an interview last week.
“With this earthquake, it’s become clear that the Tokyo
metropolitan area is the country’s most important region --
Kansai doesn’t have the economic capacity to compete with that.”  Tokyo’s Rise  Osaka, in the Kansai region west of Tokyo, once was Japan’s
center of commerce as the industrial revolution helped it boom
into a bustling textile hub. In the late 19th century,
businesses began to expand to a less-crowded and cheaper Tokyo.
The political capital soon flourished to eclipse Osaka’s
industrial might as it built modern roads and capital became
accessible from its banks.  An earthquake that killed more than 140,000 people in 1923
and the B-29 air raids that burned much of the city during World
War II didn’t stop Tokyo’s rise in the following decades.  In 1955, greater Tokyo, a region that also encompasses
three neighboring prefectures, generated 24 percent of the
nation’s wealth. By 2007, the region’s gross domestic product
made up one-third of Japan’s economy, was larger than  India ’s
entire GDP and three times the size of  Sweden ’s.  Tokyo Escaped  Tokyo escaped the worst of the March 11 quake, which left
27,242 dead or missing as of yesterday afternoon, according to
the National Policy Agency in Tokyo. The brunt of the blow came
to the northeast, in the Tohoku region, home to some of the
public-works projects that Igarashi criticized in the past as
sapping Japan’s economic dynamism.  Kan’s  Democratic Party  of Japan, which defeated the  Liberal
Democratic Party  that ruled the nation almost without break in
the postwar era, had railed against the LDP’s support for the
construction industry. “From concrete to people” was one of
the DPJ’s campaign slogans.  One concern in the aftermath of the quake: possible
consequences from the change in pressure levels on undersea
plates extending 500 kilometers to the east and west of the
epicenter.  “It is possible that the portion of the plate boundary
closer to Tokyo is now closer to failure, though it is rather
difficult to say when that failure might occur and how large it
might be,” said Brian Baptie, a scientist at the Keyworth,
U.K.-based British Geological Survey.  A large temblor striking the Kanto region would hit the
world’s most populous urban region. The Tokyo-Yokohama area has
35 million people, according to Illinois-based market researcher
Demographia. The tri-state area of  New York ,  New Jersey  and
 Connecticut  ranked sixth in 2010.  “Look at the U.S. and how they have New York and L.A. and
Chicago and  Washington ,” said Igarashi. “The lesson we need to
take away from this disaster is that we have to restructure
Japan as an entire nation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  