-- 
Kim Jong Il Knows What He Can Do With $500,000: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-27T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/kim-jong-il-knows-what-to-do-with-500-000-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
The more someone purports to know
what’s in  Kim Jong Il ’s mind, the more skeptical you should be.
What about the North Korean dictator’s heart?  This question is much on the minds of Japanese after Kim
donated $500,000 to help their nation deal with a record
earthquake and tsunami. The gesture is as fascinating as its
timing. It came on the same day a United Nations agency said Kim
urgently needs about $1 million of equipment and vaccines to
fight foot-and-mouth disease in livestock.  Japan should reject the money, and not just because it’s
probably coming in counterfeit $100 bills. If Kim has half a
million to spare, he should spend it on his own people rather
than this cynical grab for publicity and feigned goodwill. It’s
the latest of an ever-growing trove of evidence of how little
Kim’s 24 million people mean to him.  Japan ’s disaster came at
the hands of Mother Nature; Kim’s is man-made.  This may be Kim’s way of saying that Japan is still vitally
important, no matter how fast China is growing. Or, could it
mark a turning point driven behind the scenes by his son and
heir apparent Kim Jong Un after observing uprisings from Egypt
to  Libya ?  To many Japanese, it won’t matter. Antipathy toward Kim has
been at a fever pitch since 2002 when he admitted to abducting
13 Japanese over the years. Kim’s penchant for firing test
missiles over Japan doesn’t help. Neither did  North Korea ’s
statement last week that Libya, by dismantling its nuclear
weapons program, left it open to military intervention. It
buttressed the view that Kim will never give up his nuclear
arsenal.  Down Payment  Also, Kim’s “donation” probably is just coming out of the
aid Japan,  South Korea  and China sent his way over the years.
“It’s a small down payment on the reparations the North Koreans
still covet from Tokyo and will press for again someday after
the Japanese economy recovers,” says Bradley Martin, author of
“ Under the Loving Care of the Fatherly Leader .” “The Japanese
won’t be tempted to drop their guard.”  Kim, and his son, may be signaling that cash from Japan is
vital to their family’s ability to stay in power. One of the
more explosive WikiLeaks.org disclosures last year was that
young Chinese Communist party leaders don’t think North  Korea  is
a reliable ally, and that some of them believe Korea should be
unified under the South.  China  is still North Korea’s sugar daddy, yet income from
Japan has long been vital, too. North Korean residents in Japan
have sent billions of yen in money and goods back home to
relatives since the 1953 end of the  Korean War , much of it
derived from their operation of pachinko gambling parlors.
Sanctions are reducing the amount.  Tighter Controls  Last year, Japan further tightened controls on sending
money to the North and its Coast Guard now searches the
communist regime’s ships after deadly attacks on the South. It’s
telling, though, that Kim’s donation is targeted specifically at
Koreans living in Japan.  Kim may hope it will win him some goodwill and motivate
Koreans to work harder to sneak money to Pyongyang. So most
likely, this is a contemptuous bit of self-marketing by a regime
running out of cash.  Again, Japan’s plight was about tectonic plates moving;
Kim’s is about mismanagement. Millions of his people have
starved. Those who haven’t face constant malnourishment,
repression and the threat of war in a stunted nation run by
Stalinists. Japan is a vibrant, wealthy nation that respects its
citizens. It is already dusting itself off and moving on, while
North Korea’s self-inflicted wounds grow worse by the day.  Different Kim  Now let’s consider the other alternative: that the coming
rule of Kim Jong Un will be vastly different from that of his
father or the nation’s founder,  Kim Il Sung .  Yes, I know. It’s almost naive to ponder the possibility.
Yet if the last three years taught us anything it’s that the
unthinkable has an uncanny knack of happening. Few could have
foreseen a year ago that  Hosni Mubarak  would be ousted by
people-power protests in  Egypt . Or that  Muammar Qaddafi  would be
on the ropes in Libya.  Officials in  Seoul  are buzzing that the Kims seem
increasingly concerned about internal threats to their regime.
Could this Kim overture to Japan be a harbinger of a good-
global-citizen phase? Only time will tell.  More likely, this is just the calm before another
outlandish act that unnerves markets from Seoul to  New York . The
biggest consistency among the folks in Pyongyang is dashing
hopes for peace. It’s great that former U.S. President  Jimmy Carter  plans to prod the Kims toward change in a private visit
to North Korea. Just don’t get your hopes up too high.  If Kim wants to do the world some good, he should stop
blowing his nation’s money on bombs, Hennessy cognac and luxury
cars. If he really wants to help Japan, become a better, less
belligerent neighbor. Come on, Dear Leader Kim -- Japan doesn’t
need your money. Your own people do.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  