-- 
North Korea’s Top Lawmaker Choe Leaves Pyongyang for U.K. Visit, KCNA Says

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-03-27T19:37:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/north-korea-s-top-lawmaker-choe-thae-bok-leaves-for-u-k-visit-kcna-says.html
North Korea ’s top legislator
departed the capital, Pyongyang, for a visit to the U.K., state-
owned Korean Central News Agency reported.  Choe Thae Bok, chairman of the Supreme People’s Assembly
and a confidant of leader Kim Jong Il, heads a group of North
Korean officials making the trip, KCNA said March 26 without
giving details.  The British-North Korea All-Party Parliamentary Group
invited Choe after a U.K. delegation led by Lord David Alton
visited Pyongyang last year, Radio Free  Asia  reported earlier
this month.  Choe arrived for a stopover in Beijing, where he may be
preparing for a visit to  China  by Kim Jong Il’s son and heir Kim Jong Un,  South Korea ’s  SBS  television reported late March 26,
citing an unidentified official.  “North Korea seems to be expanding its scope of diplomacy
with wider exchanges with European nations,” said Kim Yong Hyun, professor of North Korean Studies at Dongguk University in
Seoul. “It wants to prove North Korea is a member of
international society and to build a favorable atmosphere for
obtaining food aid.”  A telephone call to the British embassy in Seoul yesterday
outside working hours was connected to an automated answering
system. South Korea’s Unification Ministry has no comment on
Choe’s visit, spokeswoman Lee Jong Joo said by phone in Seoul.  British Ambassador to South Korea Martin Uden wrote about
his March 11-14 trip to the Democratic People’s Republic of
 Korea  on his embassy’s  website .  “As opportunity offers, we can also find other ways to
ensure that a true picture of the outside world is seen in
Pyongyang,” reads Uden’s posting made on March 24. “That might
be the ‘Bend it like Beckham’ film we got shown at Christmas on
DPRK TV. Or it could be bringing DPRK officials to  London  when
we can and where appropriate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  