-- 
Oil Trades Below $106 as Europe Debt Concerns Outweigh Middle East Unrest

-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-03-28T05:03:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/oil-trades-below-106-as-europe-debt-concerns-outweigh-middle-east-unrest.html
Oil fell for a third day in New
York as concern that  Japan ’s ongoing nuclear crisis is delaying
rebuilding efforts and European nations’ debt may cut demand,
overshadowed turmoil in Libya and the Middle East.  Futures slipped as much as 0.4 percent in the longest
declining streak in two weeks as the European Union reduced the
amount committed to an emergency support system for the euro
region. Japanese equities fell after radiation hampered efforts
to cool the stricken reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
and earthquake damage slowed the supply of materials to
manufacturers. Libyan rebels recaptured the oil port of Ras
Lanuf yesterday, while 12 people died in clashes in  Syria .  “Investors will be pausing for any prospects of delays in
the Japanese recovery effort following this nuclear issue or
radiation,” said Serene Lim, an energy and commodity strategist
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore.
“The news in the eurozone has been overshadowing other news
like  Libya . The situation in Libya doesn’t seem to improve or
worsen.”  Crude for May delivery fell as much as 40 cents to $105 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , and was at $105.13
at 12:47 p.m. Singapore time. The contract has declined for a
third day, the longest declining streak since the four days
ended March 11. It fell 20 cents to $105.40 on March 25.  Prices are up 15 percent for the quarter and are 28 percent
higher the past year. Crude reached $106.95 on March 7, the
highest since September 2008 and a level of technical resistance.  Technical Resistance  Oil prices often fail to extend gains when traders’ sell
orders are clustered at specific levels, creating so-called
price resistance. May futures are also below $108.25 a barrel
reached on March 7, the contract’s peak this year.  “We will look for resistance at May’s 2011 high,”  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania , said in a note today. “Unless something
especially severe happens in the Middle East, of course, in
which case all bets are off.”  Brent crude  for May settlement fell 11 cents to $115.48 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . The
contract dropped 13 cents to $115.59 on March 25.  Oil prices may fall this week on speculation that a civil
war that’s slashed Libyan crude output won’t reduce supplies
from other countries in the region, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Eleven of 24 analysts, or 46 percent, forecast crude oil
will decline through April 1. Last week, 56 percent of
respondents said futures would gain.  Oil has rallied 24 percent in  New York  since protests began
Feb. 15 in Libya, a member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. The conflict is the bloodiest in uprisings
that have toppled the presidents of Tunisia and Egypt and spread
to Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Yemen and Oman.  NATO  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization agreed yesterday to
take command of all military operations related to enforcement
of the United Nations mandate to ensure the safety of civilians
in Libya against forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Within hours of that decision, allied warplanes began
airstrikes on the capital, Tripoli, and on Sirte, Qaddafi’s
birthplace, the  Associated Press  reported. The strikes on Sirte
were the first of the military operation, which begun March 19.  Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh said he would offer no
more concessions to his opponents and warned that his nation
faces growing chaos, as a senior military official and former
ally of the embattled president called for him to step down.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Koh in  Singapore  at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  