-- 
Oman Produces 8 Barrels of Water Per Barrel of Oil, PDO Says

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-03-27T16:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/oman-produces-8-barrels-of-water-per-barrel-of-oil-pdo-says.html
Petroleum Development Oman, the
state-controlled  oil company , produces eight barrels of water
for every barrel of crude oil in the water-scarce country, the
head of the water department said.  “The oilfields are quite mature, so we have higher water
production,” Yasmeen al-Lawati said at a conference in  Abu
Dhabi  today. “Part of it is re-injected to maintain pressure
inside the reservoir, the rest is just discarded.”  Oman, the largest Arab oil producer that’s not a member of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is among the
top 10 nations with the “most extreme risk” of interruptions
to water supply out of 162 countries surveyed, risk-assessment
consultants Maplecroft said in a report last week.  After Mauritania, which has the highest risk ranking,
 Kuwait , Jordan,  Egypt ,  Israel , Niger, Iraq, Oman, the United
Arab Emirates and Syria are most in danger of not having enough
water “to enable normal societal and economic functioning,”
authors Tom Styles and Fiona Place wrote.  To use the discarded water, Oman set up a pilot reed bed
project in 2000 in the Nimr oilfield.  Bauer Resources  won a
contract to upgrade the project, which enables water to be
treated by moving through reed roots, and began receiving 45,000
cubic meters a day of water from the oilfield last month, al-
Lawati said.  PDO produces 800,000 cubic meters of water a day from its
oilfields, according to a  presentation  at a Society of Petroleum
Engineers conference last year on the Nimr water treatment
project.  The Sultanate of Oman is PDO’s largest shareholder with a
60 percent stake. Royal Dutch Shell Plc owns 34 percent,  Total
SA (FP)  holds 4 percent and Partex has 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  