-- 
Only Qaddafi’s Ouster Defines Success in Libya: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-03-27T15:01:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/only-qaddafi-s-ouster-defines-success-in-libya-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
Democratic Congressman Dennis Kucinich raises the possibility of impeaching President  Barack Obama  for aggressive air strikes against Libya, while Mitt Romney, a potential Republican presidential candidate, says the
policy shows the commander in chief to be “tentative,
indecisive,  timid and nuanced .”  Obama can brush aside these criticisms. Every modern
president would have been impeached under Kucinich’s standards.
And, to borrow a time-worn phrase, if Obama walked across the
Potomac River, rivals such as Romney would say that only proves
he can’t swim.  What the president can’t brush aside is  Muammar Qaddafi ,
who he declared must leave power. If a year from now the
dictator still rules Libya, thumbing his nose at the West and
plotting revenge, Obama’s political prospects will suffer and
Romney’s critique will resonate.  Libya  is of marginal strategic interest to the U.S.,
especially compared with Pakistan,  Afghanistan  and Iran. Yet in
the short run, symbolically and politically, Obama may have more
at stake.  The analogy that might give the president comfort would be
George W. Bush’s boast, after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
that the U.S. would get Osama bin Laden “dead or alive.” Not
only did Bush fail, but a couple of months later, when bin Laden
reportedly was cornered in Tora Bora, the U.S. failed to act. In
his memoirs, Bush’s domineering defense secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, insists no one told him the al-Qaeda leader was within
striking distance.  Bush Re-Election  Yet that analogy has flaws. In the 2004 elections, three
years after the Sept. 11 attacks, the U.S. still was in a rally-
around-the-flag mood, and Democrats didn’t capitalize on the
administration’s failures.  Foreign policy, except in times of unpopular and higher-
casualty wars, rarely drives U.S. elections. In 2004, the  Iraq 
war wasn’t a determinative factor in Bush’s re-election. Twelve
years earlier, his father lost his bid for a second term,
despite a more successful effort in throwing Iraqi invaders out
of  Kuwait . In 1956, almost no one voted against Dwight D. Eisenhower because he didn’t come to the aid of the unsuccessful
uprising in  Hungary .  Contemporaneously, Obama’s handling of  Egypt  may be much
more important for the region. Yet in calling on President  Hosni Mubarak  to step down in an orderly way, the U.S. knew it had
some institutional support within Egypt; there is no such
support in Libya.  Ad-Hoc Policy  The policy appears ad-hoc and inconsistent. One day the
stakes are huge, the next it’s no big deal; Qaddafi has to go,
unless he doesn’t; the U.S. is providing leadership, except when
it isn’t.  The contention that the president exceeded his authority in
the airstrikes on Libya seems specious to most war-powers
experts.  More problematic has been the failure of the White House to
explain to Congress or the country why it has taken a more
aggressive posture. Even a number of Democrats nodded when House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, complained that U.S.
military resources had been committed without defining the
mission.  When lawmakers like Senator Richard Lugar, a Republican and
a foreign-policy mentor to Obama when he was in the Senate, and
Democrat Jim Webb complain about a lack of consultation or
clarity of policy, that’s far more credible than the gripes of
Kucinich or Romney.  After more than a week, with the distraction of a trip to
Latin America, Obama still hasn’t laid out a coherent strategy
or plausible endgame to the public. The president will have an
opportunity to do so in a speech tonight.  One of Many Despots  There was a very legitimate debate on Libya within the
administration, with both sides making a compelling case.
Skeptics argue, sure, Qaddafi is a monster, but the world is
full of such despots: Robert Mugabe in  Zimbabwe , Hugo Chavez in
 Venezuela , Kim Jong-Il in  North Korea  and  Iran ’s Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.  The U.S. lacks the military economic and political
wherewithal to take all of them out. With two wars, the military
is already stretched too thin, a state of affairs reflected in
Defense Secretary Robert Gates’ reservations about the Libya
action.  All true, acknowledge the interventionists, including most
of the top women in this administration. However, if Qaddafi
were permitted to brutally repress a genuine uprising, he would
encourage dictators throughout the region and signal that the
U.S. only pays lip-service to promoting human rights and
democratic values. The factors are geopolitical as well as
humanitarian.  Kosovo War  A parallel they cite is the former Serbian President
Slobodan Milosevic, who committed atrocities in Bosnia for years,
until Richard Holbrooke and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright finally persuaded President  Bill Clinton  to intervene.
The genocide stopped, and Milosevic eventually fell. That’s the
aim in Libya.  The criticism from neoconservatives that Obama is a
multilateralist, hesitant to exercise American power, in the
mold of  Ronald Reagan  or  George W. Bush , doesn’t stand up to
scrutiny. Obama escalated the war in Afghanistan -- committing
more troops and more air assaults than the Bush administration
even considered -- stayed the course in Iraq, and when the
Somali pirates took a U.S. freighter captain hostage, the
president ordered Navy snipers to shoot the captors; three
pirates were killed and the American freed.  Rapprochement With Libya  Further, the Reagan and Bush examples, so cherished by
conservatives, are especially ironic when discussing Libya. It
was Bush five years ago who normalized relations with Qaddafi
after the dictator renounced weapons of mass destruction. That
easing of tensions has enriched his coffers to pay for the
current repression.  Reagan did bomb Libya in 1986 in retaliation for terrorist
acts. Two years later, the erratic Libyan dictator masterminded
the downing of Pan Am Flight 103, which was blown up over
Lockerbie,  Scotland , killing 189 Americans. There was no
retaliation of any consequence.  If the current move doesn’t topple the aging colonel, he
will assuredly taunt Obama and plot similar acts of terrorism.  The White House usually doesn’t look to Sarah Palin for
political wisdom. When she declared the other day that the
objective in Libya has to be to “win it,” and “win it means
Qaddafi goes,” she could have been channeling Obama.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 