-- 
Toyota Says Japan Carmakers May Consider Rotating Output to Save Energy

-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-03-27T08:44:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/toyota-says-japan-carmakers-to-consider-rotating-production-to-save-energy.html
Japanese carmakers, facing
electricity shortages after the nation’s record earthquake
crippled  power plants , may consider measures including rotating
production to save energy,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  said.  Taking turns running assembly lines is among the measures
that should be considered as automakers coordinate efforts
through their main industry group, the Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association, Masami Doi, a spokesman for Toyota,
said today by phone.  Manufacturers face a cut in summer power supply of about 15
percent after the March 11 temblor knocked out generators,
curbing growth in the world’s third-largest economy. Plant
damage and power outages have forced carmakers including Toyota
and Honda Motor Co. to halt domestic car assembly, causing
Toyota to lose an estimated 140,000 units of production so far.  Automakers are expected to meet “shortly” to discuss a
rotation schedule, as they seek to avoid scheduled blackouts in
exchange for reducing their power use, Kyodo reported yesterday,
citing people familiar with the matter. Other industries may
take similar measures, Kyodo said.  Nuclear Crisis  Toyota’s Doi said no measures had been decided yet.
Toshitake Inoshita, a spokesman for Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s
second-largest carmaker, said no discussions have taken place
about rotating production or any other detailed plans. The  auto
industry  will cooperate as much as possible to save power,
Inoshita said today by phone.  The magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami crippled  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant, triggering
the world’s worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986 and
limiting electricity supply to the country’s most industrialized
area. The utility known as Tepco began rolling blackouts for
Tokyo and its surroundings after the disaster.  Tepco had capacity to supply 38,500 megawatts of
electricity as of March 24 and plans to boost that to 46,500
megawatts by the end of July through buying supply from other
utilities and opening idled thermal plants, it said in a
statement on its website. It expects a daily shortage of 8,500
megawatts this summer as it estimates seasonal demand will peak
at about 55,000 megawatts, it said.  Parts Shortages  The earthquake shut about 11 percent of  Japan ’s generating
capacity, according to estimates from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Industrial users accounted for 27 percent of Tepco’s electricity
sales in 2009 and residential users 73 percent, data on the
company’s website show.  Shortages of car parts caused by the earthquake may reduce
global automobile production by about 30 percent, research
company IHS Automotive said March 24. If parts factories
affected by the quake don’t return to operation within six
weeks, global auto output may drop by as much as 100,000
vehicles a day, according to  Michael Robinet , vice president of
Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS. The industry produces
280,000 to 300,000 vehicles daily, he said.  As many as 500 component makers have operations in the
areas affected by the disaster, Toshiyuki Shiga, chairman of the
Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, said in an interview
on March 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
堀江政嗣 in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  