-- 
PDVSA to Guarantee Pension Investment Lost in Connecticut Hedge-Fund Fraud

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-03-27T16:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/pdvsa-to-guarantee-pension-investment-lost-in-connecticut-hedge-fund-fraud.html
Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA will
cover losses suffered by the company’s pension fund when it
invested in an alleged Ponzi scheme in the U.S., Oil Minister
 Rafael Ramirez  said.  PDVSA, as the state oil company is known, isn’t responsible
for the losses because the operator of the Stamford,
Connecticut-based hedge who committed the fraud wasn’t an
employee, Ramirez said in an interview on the Televen television
network. Ramirez didn’t say how much was lost in the scheme, or
how much money the pension fund had invested.  Francisco Illarramendi, the majority owner of a holding
company through which he managed several  hedge funds , pleaded
guilty to fraud in the U.S. on March 7 after investigators from
the Securities and Exchange Commission uncovered what
prosecutors said was a  Ponzi scheme  with potential investor and
creditor losses of hundreds of millions of dollars.  “We have decided to back the workers, we will take on the
problem, guarantee income, the retirement packages and above all
the pensions of the workers,” Ramirez said. Illarramendi “has
no relation with PDVSA.”  Ramirez said Illarramendi’s fund had also received
investments from other Venezuelans, such as the Cisneros and
Capriles families, two of the country’s richest families.  Ramirez also said that U.S. oil companies Exxon Mobil Corp.
and ConocoPhilips, which in 2007 filed international arbitration
claims against PDVSA related to asset seizures, are asking for
“exorbitant” levels of compensation. The oil producers will be
paid “corresponding to their investments,” he said.  Investments in Venezuela’s heavy crude Orinoco Belt will
allow PDVSA to increase production capacity to 3.5 million
barrels of oil per day by 2012 and to between 4.5 million and 5
million barrels per day by 2014, Ramirez said. The company
currently produces 3.11 million barrels per day, not 2.7 million
barrels per day as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries claims, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  