-- 
Porsche to Start 5 Billion-Euro Share Sale to Cut Debt

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-03-27T22:22:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/porsche-says-debt-reducing-7-billion-share-sale-will-begin-on-march-30.html
(Corrects discount percentage in second paragraph.)  Porsche SE, the sports-car maker
that plans to merge with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , will start a 5 billion-
euro ($7 billion) share sale March 30 to reduce debt.  The carmaker’s supervisory and executive boards signed off
on the plan to sell shares at 38 euros apiece to current owners,
Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche said in a statement yesterday.
One existing share carries the right to subscribe to 0.75 new
shares. The price is a 32 percent discount to the preferred
stock’s close on March 25 of 56.22 euros.  The sale will be split evenly between preferred and common
stock at 2.5 billion euros each. The common shares are
controlled by the Porsche and Piech families. The subscription
for the sale begins March 30 and ends April 12.  Porsche, which plans to use the proceeds to cut debt to
about 1.5 billion euros, last week said a timetable to sell the
shares still stands amid the volatile financial markets
following the Japanese earthquake. Porsche and Volkswagen agreed
to combine in August 2009 after the maker of the 911 sports car
racked up more than 10 billion euros of debt in an unsuccessful
attempt to gain control of VW.  The merger, originally scheduled for completion in the
second half of 2011, will probably be delayed into next year
because of German legal obstacles. An investigation into share-
price manipulation allegations will likely push the deal’s
completion into 2012, Porsche said Feb. 24.  All new preferred shares will be underwritten by the
members of a banking syndicate led by Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley, the carmaker said yesterday.
Deutsche Bank will carry out the sale of common shares.  Debt Increases  Net debt at Porsche’s holding company increased to 6.34
billion euros as of Dec. 31 from 6.05 billion euros on July 31
because of tax repayments. Porsche shareholders last year
approved the stock sale to raise the funds.  Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen now owns 49.9 percent
of Porsche’s carmaking operations. Proceeds from the share sale
will help pay back a 2.5 billion-euro  bank loan  expiring at the
end of June.  Full-year revenue at Porsche’s auto-making division may
exceed last year’s levels, Chief Executive Officer  Matthias Mueller  said this month. The carmaker posted record revenue of
3.87 billion euros for the August to December period. Porsche’s
holding company expects another profit in 2011, Poetsch said.  Short sellers of VW stock have sued Porsche in the U.S.,
claiming the carmaker secretly piled up VW shares and later
caused the investors to lose more than $1 billion. At the same
time, institutional investors in  Germany  are seeking 2.5 billion
euros in damages over the matter. Porsche has repeatedly denied
all the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 