-- 
Porsche to Start 5 Billion-Euro Share Sale to Lower Debt

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-03-28T16:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/porsche-to-sell-7-billion-shares-at-32-discount-to-help-cut-debt-burden.html
Porsche SE, the sports-car maker
that plans to merge with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , will start a 5 billion-
euro ($7 billion) share sale March 30 to reduce debt.  The carmaker plans to sell shares at 38 euros apiece to
current owners, Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche said in a
statement. One existing share carries the right to subscribe to
0.75 new shares. The price is 32 percent lower than the
preferred stock’s close on March 25 of 56.22 euros.  Porsche, which will use the proceeds to cut debt to 1.5
billion euros, said last week the share-sale timetable still
stands amid volatile financial markets following the Japanese
earthquake. Porsche and VW agreed to combine in 2009 after the
maker of the 911 sports car racked up more than 10 billion euros
of debt in an unsuccessful attempt to gain control of VW.  “It’s not the perfect timing given how volatile the market
has been in recent weeks, but they’re under pressure to get this
done,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Bankhaus Metzler who recommends buying the shares. “They’re
averting the much greater damage that would occur if the merger
were pushed back for months.”  Porsche’s preferred shares today rose 6.7 percent to 60
euros, the most since Jan. 26, valuing the manufacturer at 10.5
billion euros. Porsche had gained 27 percent in the last year
prior to today.  Share Issue  Porsche will issue as many as 131.25 million shares, evenly
split between preferred and common stock, the company said late
yesterday. The common shares are controlled by the Porsche and
Piech families. The subscription for the sale begins March 30
and ends April 12.  “Equity markets are now focusing on positive fundamentals,
that’s what’s helping to keep them from giving up an awful lot
of ground and they haven’t,” said Mike Lenhoff, London-based
chief strategist at Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd.  Hans Dieter Poetsch, chief financial officer at VW and
Porsche, said he would have preferred a “different
environment” for the stock sale. Porsche has had talks with
“the bulk” of investors and expects no difficulties with the
capital increase. The CFO pegged the discount at 21 percent
based on a weighted average of Porsche shares’ March 25 close
and the selling price for new stock.  ‘Low Discount’  “This is a very low discount,” Poetsch said today at a
press conference in Salzburg,  Austria . “We’re bracing for a
very good share placement.”  The Porsche and Piech families may spend 2.25 billion euros
on the share sale, while Qatar Holding LLC, part of the
country’s sovereign wealth fund which controls 10 percent of
Porsche’s voting stock, may contribute 250 million euros,
Poetsch said March 17.  David Lesne, a London-based analyst at UBS said in a
written note that rights-issue terms announced by Porsche are
“disappointing,” referring to the size of the discount and
lack of detail on the planned merger process.  The VW-Porsche combination, originally scheduled for
completion in the second half, will probably be delayed into
next year because of German legal obstacles. An investigation
into share-price manipulation allegations will likely push the
deal’s completion into 2012, Porsche said Feb. 24.  All new preferred shares will be underwritten by a banking
syndicate led by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , the carmaker said. Deutsche Bank will carry out
the sale of common shares. Rothschild has served as Porsche’s
financial advisor on the share sale.  Reducing Debt  Net debt at Porsche’s holding company increased to 6.34
billion euros as of Dec. 31 from 6.05 billion euros on July 31
because of tax repayments. Porsche shareholders last year
approved the stock sale to raise the funds.  Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen now owns 49.9 percent
of Porsche’s carmaking operations. Proceeds from the share sale
will help pay back a 2.5 billion-euro  bank loan  expiring at the
end of June.  “The company will use all of the net proceeds for the
repayment of liabilities under its credit facilities,” Porsche
said in the statement.  Full-year revenue at Porsche’s auto-making division may
exceed last year’s levels, Chief Executive Officer  Matthias Mueller  said this month. The carmaker posted record revenue of
3.87 billion euros for the August-to-December period. Porsche’s
holding company expects another profit in 2011, Chief Financial
Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said.  Short sellers of VW stock have sued Porsche in the U.S.,
claiming the carmaker secretly piled up VW shares and later
caused the investors to lose more than $1 billion. At the same
time, institutional investors in  Germany  are seeking 2.5 billion
euros in damages over the matter. Porsche has repeatedly denied
all the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Salzburg, Austria via 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 