-- 
Portugal's President May Call June Elections With Bond Redemptions Looming

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-03-28T16:05:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/portugal-president-may-call-june-vote-as-bond-redemptions-loom.html
Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva may call early elections for June, close to the date of a
key bond redemption that may determine whether Portugal seeks an
international rescue.  Cavaco Silva needs to schedule a vote after Prime Minister
 Jose Socrates  resigned on March 23 following opposition parties’
rejection of budget cuts aimed at reducing the deficit and
staving off a European Union-led bailout. The president met with
all parties on March 25 and was urged to call the ballot, more
than two years before the legislature’s term ends.  Portugal doesn’t need a rescue, Socrates said at a summit
of EU leaders in Brussels on March 25, seeking to counter
speculation that the country’s record bond yields will force it
to follow Ireland and  Greece  in seeking aid. The nation faces
bond redemptions of about 9 billion euros ($12.8 billion) on
April 15 and June 15.  “We think that Portugal has sufficient funds to cover the
April redemption of 4.5 billion euros, though further funding
would be required for the June 4.9 billion-euro redemption,”
said analysts including Guy Mandy at Nomura Holdings Inc. in a
note to investors on March 25.  Under Portuguese law, the elections may be held no sooner
than 55 days after being called. Parliamentarians from Socrates’
Socialist Party, the  Green Party  and the Communist Party
suggested that Cavaco Silva call the elections for early June.
The  People’s Party  asked for polls as soon as possible and the
Social Democrats’  Pedro Passos Coelho  said they should take
place at the end of May.  ‘Unequivocal Commitment’  “Portugal’s three largest parties guaranteed to the
president their unequivocal commitment to a strategy of budget
consolidation and the targets of  deficit reduction  announced by
the Portuguese state to guarantee the path of sustainability of
public debt,” Cavaco Silva said in a written response to e-
mailed questions. The three biggest parties are the Socialists,
the Social Democrats and the People’s Party.  Socrates’s resignation cast a shadow over the EU summit
that began the next day and that aimed to stop the spread of the
debt crisis and spare further bailouts through a package of
measures, including establishing a permanent-rescue fund.  “The opposition parties decided to start a political
crisis at the worst moment for Portugal,” Socrates said at a
Socialist Party meeting yesterday. “Resorting to external aid
would be bad for  Europe , it would be bad for the single currency
and it would be bad for many other European countries that are
expecting Portugal to fight for that not to happen.”  Record Yield  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield advanced to a euro-era record
of as much as 7.94 percent today. The difference in yield that
investors demand to hold the securities instead of German bunds
was at 463 basis points today, after reaching the most since
November on March 25. The Portuguese five-year yield also rose
to a record 8.707 percent, indicating investors perceive more
risk to lend to Portugal for five years than for 10.  Standard & Poor’s  said it may downgrade  Portugal ’s debt
again this week after cutting long- and short-term counterparty
credit ratings today on five Portuguese banks and two related
subsidiaries. S&P cut Portugal’s rating two notches on March 25,
to BBB from A-.  A bailout may total as much as 70 billion euros, said two
European officials with direct knowledge of the matter. Analyst
Laurent Fransolet at  Barclays Capital  estimated in a note on
March 25 that the country’s current cash position was likely to
be about 4.5 billion euros to 5 billion euros, enough to cover
the April redemption, though not the one in June. Debt agency
chairman Alberto Soares wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Uncomfortable Position  “Portugal needs to find financing in the coming weeks,”
Fransolet wrote, adding that funds could come through issuance,
credit lines or a bridge loan. “Portugal is likely to find
financing, but it is not in a comfortable position.”  The president must also consult with the Council of State,
an advisory body including past premiers and presidents, before
he can accept the resignation of Socrates, who was re-elected as
his party’s leader over the weekend. Cavaco Silva will meet with
the council on March 31 at 3 p.m., his office said today in a
statement on its website.  Socrates, who first came to power in 2005, leads a minority
government. The  Social Democrats , the biggest opposition group,
allowed the government’s earlier austerity measures to pass with
this year’s budget. They say they still back efforts to reduce
the budget gap to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product in 2011
and 3 percent next year.  Meeting Commitments  “In what concerns the Portuguese state’s external
commitments, namely redemptions and public debt payments, they
are usual acts of governments and I’m absolutely sure that the
caretaker government will assure those functions,” Passos
Coelho said after meeting with the president.  Portugal has already raised taxes and implemented the
deepest spending cuts in more than three decades to convince
investors it can reduce its budget shortfall. The additional
cuts, announced on March 11, were the equivalent of 4.5 percent
of GDP over three years and prompted a political backlash.  The Social Democrats led the Socialists in a survey of
voters’ intentions for parliamentary elections, television
station TVI reported on its website today. The poll gave the
Social Democrats 42.2 percent, compared with 41.6 percent in
December, TVI said. The party would still lack a majority in
parliament based on the projection.  The survey indicated 32.8 percent support for the
Socialists, compared with 30.1 percent in December, according to
TVI. About 61 percent of those polled favored a coalition
government, TVI said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  