-- 
Japan Radiation Levels Surge in Water at Stricken Fukushima Nuclear Plant

-- B y   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-03-27T15:11:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/radiation-levels-rise-at-fukushima-as-government-says-situation-is-stable.html
Radiation in water at Japan’s
earthquake-damaged nuclear plant reached potentially lethal
levels, hampering work to cool reactors.  As the worst atomic accident since Chernobyl entered its
third week, the government said soil near the Fukushima plant
would be tested for plutonium contamination. The radioactive
metal was used in the fuel mix of one of the reactors.  Water in the Fukushima Dai-Ichi No. 2 reactor’s turbine
building was measured at more than 1,000 millisieverts per hour,
Japan’s nuclear safety agency said yesterday. That’s higher than
the dose that would cause vomiting, hair loss and diarrhoea,
according to the  World Nuclear Association .  “They’re finding quite high levels of radiation fields,
which is impeding their progress dealing with the situation,”
said Richard Wakeford, an expert in radiation epidemiology at
the U.K.’s Dalton Nuclear Institute in Manchester. At reactor 2,
“you’d have a lot of difficulty putting anyone in there.”  Efforts to gain control over the damaged plant have been
hampered by radiation leaks, forcing repair work to be suspended
and engineers to rotate shifts. Two men who were exposed to
radiation had “significant” skin contamination on their legs,
the  International Atomic Energy Agency  said.  ‘Won’t Immediately Improve’  “I’ve said the situation won’t immediately improve, and
high radiation water is one of the unexpected things that I had
said might occur,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said at
a briefing in  Tokyo  yesterday. “We want to continue cooling,
and establish a direction toward ending the situation.”  Soil samples have been taken and will be tested for
plutonium, Edano told reporters.  The plant’s operator, Tokyo Electric Power Co., said its
analysis of radioactive substances at No. 2 reactor may have
overstated the amount of iodine-134 in the water and the test
would be redone. The reading of 1,000 millisieverts per hour
would probably stand, Naoki Tsunoda, a spokesman at the company,
said by phone.  Radiation leaks have contaminated vegetables in regions
around the plant and sparked scares over tap water in Tokyo,
which is 227 kilometers (140 miles) Dai-Ichi power station.  The number of dead and missing from the March 11
earthquake, tsunami and subsequent aftershocks reached 27,110 as
of 10 a.m. Tokyo time. The government is struggling to relieve
hundreds of thousands of people left homeless or without
essential services and food and water.  Radiation in water was found in one out of three Tokyo
water purification plants based on samples taken yesterday, the
Tokyo metropolitan government said. Two out of three facilities
detected radioactive levels the previous day.  Purification Plant  The water purification plant that found radiation was the
Asaka plant in Saitama, north of Tokyo, where the reading of
radioactive iodine-131 fell for a second day to 27 becquerels
per kilogram of water.  The levels of iodine-131 were within the 300 becquerels per
kilogram limit set by the Nuclear Safety Commission of  Japan  for
a fifth day. The levels have been below 100 becquerels per
kilogram, a level that is safe for infants, for a fourth day.  The workers exposed to radiation at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power plant are “walking and talking” as usual, Hiroko
Imazeki, a spokeswoman for the institute, said yesterday.  One of Dai-Ichi’s six reactors achieved “cold shutdown”
status, where the temperature inside the core dropped below 100
degrees Celsius. One was shut for maintenance at the time of the
quake, while the other four are at the center of the battle to
contain leaks and overheating.  Fresh Water  “In the first eight days you were in a cycle where you’re
trying to deal with the decay heat,” Robin Grimes, a professor
of materials physics at Imperial College in  London , said by
phone. “Now, 90 percent of that energy has decayed away, so
there is no longer a risk of something suddenly happening;
things are going to change much more slowly.”  Tokyo Electric, or Tepco, is also starting to switch to
fresh water for its cooling efforts of spent fuel rods and the
reactor core to prevent further salt corrosion.  Tepco switched to using fresh water to cool the No. 2
reactor at 10:10 a.m. local time, and began draining excess
water from the turbine building of the No. 1 unit, Tepco Vice
President Sakae Muto said yesterday. The company, which is
considering a similar operation on the No. 2 and No. 3 turbine
houses, announced that it had to suspend the draining work
because of high radiation levels.  Radioactive Nuclides  Radioactive nuclides including cesium-136 and  yttrium-91 
were found in water at the turbine building of the No. 1
reactor, the Japanese nuclear agency said in a  statement  on its
website. Three workers were exposed to radiation on March 24
after stepping in water at the No. 3 unit, which indicated a
possible leakage from the reactor core, the agency said.  The nuclear agency said it doesn’t believe there is a
physical crack in the pressure or containment vessels, which
surround the core of the No. 3 reactor. Leakage may be coming
from pipes connected to the reactor.  The March 11 quake left the plant without power needed to
cool nuclear fuel rods. The government has advised more people
living close to the nuclear site to evacuate because basic goods
are in short supply, while assuring them that radiation levels
hadn’t risen in the area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 