-- 
Renewable Energy Deals Increase as Confidence Returns, PWC Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-03-27T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/renewable-energy-deals-increase-as-confidence-returns-pwc-says.html
Renewable energy mergers and
acquisition activity escalated last year as confidence returned
to the market and sellers priced assets more realistically, the
global accounting firm PwC said.  The number of deals including biofuels and wind, solar and
hydroelectric power climbed by two-thirds to 530 in 2010 from
319 the previous year, PwC said today in an e-mailed report. At
the same time, renewable energy deals were smaller, with total
value falling to $33.4 billion from $48.8 billion.  “There’s relatively strong confidence coming back to the
renewables market,” Ronan O’Regan, London-based director of
renewables at PwC, said in a phone interview. “There was a
clear gap in 2008 and 2009 between sellers’ expectations and
buyers’ view of value, and people have become more realistic on
value.”  While deal activity picked up, renewable energy shares
slumped in 2010, with the Wilderhill New Energy Index declining
15 percent and the FTSE Renewable and Alternative Energy Index
falling 8.4 percent as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  both rose.  New low-carbon energy investment surged to a record $243
billion last year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
That figure includes share offerings, asset financing and
 venture capital , though not mergers and acquisitions,
because they’re not considered new investment.  Last year’s biggest renewable energy-related transaction
was the merger of ethanol assets of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, according to PwC, which valued
the deal at $1.6 billion -- the amount of cash Shell is plowing
into the venture. The next biggest was  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s $900
million purchase of a Deere & Co. wind-power unit.  Iberdrola, Norsk  Other companies involved in the year’s 10 biggest deals
include  Spain ’s  Iberdrola Renovables SA (IBR) , Norway’s Norsk
Vannkraftproduksjon AS and British Columbia Hydro & Power
Authority of  Canada .  The uptick is likely to continue this year as economic
growth picks up and renewable energy businesses become “more
mature,” O’Regan said.  “I’d expect wind and solar will continue to dominate deal
activity,” he said. “We’ll probably see some larger
transactions in the offshore wind space, where we’re starting to
see more assets come through into commercial operations, and
we’re starting to see stakes being sold.” 