-- 
RTS Stock-Index Futures Fall on Outlook for End of Fed Stimulus

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-03-27T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/rts-stock-index-futures-fall-on-outlook-for-end-of-fed-stimulus.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
fell on speculation demand for emerging-markets securities may
decline after Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President
 Charles Plosser  laid out a strategy for withdrawing record
monetary stimulus.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
fell 0.1 percent in New York on March 25, suggesting stocks may
decline in Moscow. The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded
fund that holds Russian shares, rose 0.1 percent. Futures on OAO
Lukoil, the country’s second-biggest oil producer, rose 0.1
percent, while contracts on OAO Gazprom, the natural-gas export
monopoly, were little changed.  “Withdrawal of easy money and subsequent tightening will
lead to reduced demand for emerging-markets assets,” said Yan Gloukhovski, a trader at Alforma Capital Markets, the  New York 
branch of Russia’s Alfa Bank.  Plosser, a skeptic of the Fed’s decision to expand bond
buying in November, also said on March 25 that the improving
economy means policy makers should consider how to end the
stimulus and laid out one of the most detailed plans by a policy
maker for how to tighten credit and shrink a $2.6 trillion
balance sheet. Fed officials were discussing the exit strategy a
year ago before a slowing recovery led them to increase
stimulus.  “Russian stocks might also see a pause in aggressive
inflows, due to a heavy initial public offering and second
public offering calendar,” Gloukhovski said, citing a planned
share sale by OAO Sberbank. “Investors might hold back putting
money to use in the market, reserving cash for upcoming deals.”  Share Sales  The government may sell part of its controlling stake in
Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, as early as this year, First
Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov said on March 16.  Russia’s Nomos Bank, controlled by billionaire Alexander
Nesis, will seek to sell a 20 percent stake in the second
quarter, according to its March 23 regulatory filing.  Oil, Russia’s major export, slid in New York on March 25 as
crude failed to breach technical resistance at its 30-month high
and on concern that the European debt situation and the crisis
in  Japan  will curb fuel demand.  Crude for May delivery fell 20 cents to settle at $105.40 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on March 25.  Prices
for oil, Russia’s biggest export, have climbed 31 percent in the
past year.  Global stocks gained for a seventh day, the longest rally
for the MSCI World Index since June. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of stocks in 45 nations rose 0.2 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index gained 0.8 percent, its sixth daily advance.  The Micex Index added 0.7 percent to 1,807.46 on March 25.
The dollar-denominated RTS Index gained 0.7 percent to 2,041.49.
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s largest miner, gained 2.9
percent and OAO Mobile TeleSystems, Russia’s largest mobile-
phone company, rose 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net 
NI AIR
NI BRIC
NI CIS
NI COS
NI EEU
NI EM
NI EUROPE
NI EXC
NI MARKETS
NI MICEX
NI MOV
NI MSCIEMEUR
NI MSCIWORLD
NI RUSSIA
NI STK
NI TRN 