-- 
Schaeffler Sells 1.8 Billion Euros in Continental AG Shares

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-03-28T16:05:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/schaeffler-to-sell-1-8-billion-euros-in-continental-ag-shares.html
Schaeffler Group , the world’s
second-biggest maker of roller bearings, sold  Continental AG (CON) 
stock worth 1.8 billion euros ($2.5 billion) to reduce debt.  M.M. Warburg and Bankhaus Metzler placed 29.7 million
shares in  Europe ’s second-largest tiremaker held on Schaeffler’s
behalf at 60 euros apiece, the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based
company said today. That reduces the stake controlled by
Schaeffler to 60.3 percent from 75.1 percent.  Continental has surged 63 percent in the past year, raising
its market value to 12.7 billion euros, as a rebound in the auto
industry increases earnings. Schaeffler said the higher
circulation of Continental stock will position the tiremaker to
reapply for inclusion on  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX Index. (DAX)   “This expands the independence and strategic options for
Continental and cuts Schaeffler’s access to its profits,” said
Aleksej Wunrau, an analyst at BHF-Bank AG in  Frankfurt  with a
“market weight” recommendation on the shares. “A merger is
still possible but a lot less probable now because Schaeffler
would have to confront a blocking minority of shareholders.”  Continental rose 4 percent to 63.40 euros at the market
close in Frankfurt today, the stock’s highest gain since Feb. 8.  Reducing Debt  Closely held Schaeffler accumulated 12 billion euros in
debt from purchasing its stake in the car-parts maker in 2008.
As part of the today’s transaction, Schaeffler, which intends to
convert to a corporation in the course of 2011, increased its
direct Continental holding to 49.9 percent from 42.2 percent.  Continental’s free float will rise to 39.7 percent from
24.9 percent. That’s “raising its chances to enter the DAX,”
said Anita Paluch, a sales trader at ETX Capital in  London .  Deutsche Boerse ’s next quarterly review of index members is
scheduled for June 6, said spokesman Andreas von Brevern. Any
changes would be effective as of June 20, he said, declining to
comment on Continental’s potential inclusion.  The two banks, which will still hold 10.4 percent of the
shares, and Schaeffler won’t sell additional Continental stock
in the next 12 months, they said.  Money from the sale will help reduce debt at Schaeffler’s
holding company, owned by Maria-Elisabeth Schaeffler and her son
Georg, by 2.8 billion euros to 4.6 billion euros, the component
maker said. The interest rate on the debt will be reduced to
less than 10 percent from as much as 17 percent. The credit
facility was arranged by UBS AG, UniCredit SpA, Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc, Commerzbank AG and Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg
in 2009.  Improved Finances  “As a result of the refinancing, Schaeffler’s financial
position and financing conditions have improved significantly,”
Klaus Rosenfeld, Schaeffler’s chief financial officer, said in
today’s statement.  The holding company will reach the 2.8 billion euros in
debt reduction by using the 1.8 billion euros from the share
sale and 400 million euros from operating cash. The final 600
million euros will be transferred to Schaeffler’s operating
business, where net debt was 5.76 billion euros as of Sept. 30.  The parts maker will “continue to examine all strategic
options to further intensify the cooperation with Continental,”
Schaeffler Chairman Georg Schaeffler said in the statement.  Continental said in December it’s exploring options for a
“possible” merger with Schaeffler. On March 3, Continental
Chief Executive Officer Elmar Degenhart said there are “no
joint activities” to prepare a combination.  Rising Sales  Continental this month reported fourth-quarter revenue and
profit that beat analyst estimates and predicted rising sales
from  Asia  this year will compensate for additional costs from
surging rubber prices.  “We appreciate that Schaeffler has made a decision that
creates a solid starting position for future developments,”
Continental spokesman Hannes Boekhoff said in an e-mail. “The
decision gives Continental the option of returning to the DAX.
We want to use this chance in the interest of all shareholders
to further work on the recovery of the stock.”  The Hanover, Germany-based company is also close to
agreeing to new financing after banks offered more loans than it
asked for, three people familiar with those talks told Bloomberg
March 26. Continental is seeking to secure cheaper terms and
replace loans coming due next year. The company, which requested
6 billion euros, was offered about 8.5 billion euros in loans,
two of the people said.  Continental was seeking 6 billion euros of term loans and
revolving credits from lenders for as long as three years to
replace maturing debt, people familiar with the matter told
Bloomberg News on March 10.  Credit Rating  Standard & Poor’s rates Continental’s debt B, or five steps
below investment grade. Moody’s Investors Service ranks it one
step higher at B1. Both have a stable outlook on the ratings.
Continental aims to return to investment grade by 2012.  One part of the credit coming due is a 4.06 billion-euro
term loan. The other is a forward-start credit line of 2.5
billion euros signed in December 2009. Continental agreed to pay
interest of between 475 basis points and 500 basis points more
than benchmark lending rates for the loans, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The debt stems from Continental’s 2007 acquisition of
Siemens AG’s VDO unit for 11.4 billion euros.  Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG are coordinating the
refinancing for the Hanover, Germany-based company, people
familiar with the discussions told Bloomberg on March 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  