-- 
Serbia May Cancel Telekom Srbija Sale, Turn to Bond Sales

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-03-28T13:56:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/serbia-may-cancel-telekom-srbija-sale-turn-to-bond-sales.html
Serbia will probably cancel the
sale of Telekom Srbija AD and turn to bond sales for its
financing needs after a lone bid by  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  failed to
match the government’s asking price.  A government commission is due to meet later in the
afternoon and will announce a decision tomorrow at 2 p.m. in
Belgrade on whether the government should accept the Austrian
offer of buying the 51 percent state stake for as much as 950
million euros in cash and 450 million euros in investments.  Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic , who is struggling to trim
the  budget deficit  to live up to terms of its international
bailout loan, said he won’t accept less than his demand for 1.4
billion euros ($2 billion) in cash. Serbian workers protested
last week against the government’s price, saying it was too low,
raising the prospect that accepting the offer may erode support
before next year’s elections, analysts said.  “We can see that the price is too high for investors and
too low for those who opposed the sale and who believe the price
must be much higher,” said  Goran Saravanja , the chief economist
at  Unicredit SpA (UCG) ’s Zagrebacka Banka unit. The government is
suffering from “poor expectation management.”  Telekom Austria was the only one of seven companies
registered for the sale to place an offer, making it harder for
the government to stick to its price demands, analysts said.  The other prospective bidders were  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,
 France Telecom SA (FTE) , America Movil SAB,  Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE (ORTE)  through Weather Investments SpA,  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  and Turkcell
Iletisim Hizmetleri AS.  ‘Very Disappointed’  “The Serbian government looks to be very disappointed by
the conditional offer being much below the minimum price set,”
Bernd Maurer, an analyst at Raiffeisen Centrobank in Vienna,
wrote in a March 24 note to clients. “And given elections at
the latest in the spring of next year, we see the likelihood
increasing that the deal will fail.”  Still, Maurer said, the two companies would be a “good
fit,” and would widen Telekom  Austria ’s “footprint on the
Balkans.”  Should the government back down and accept the offer,
Telekom Austria would gain access to almost all of Serbia’s
landline network and about 60 percent of its mobile-phone
market.  It’s already the third-biggest mobile-phone operator in
Serbia, with its Vip Mobile, launched in 2007, with a market
share of 14 percent, or 1.4 million customers, according to the
telecommunication company’s website.  Balkan Holdings  Telekom Austria last year combined its domestic fixed-and
mobile-phone units to reduce costs and bought two cable
operators in Bulgaria in September. It is said to be the leading
bidder to buy B.net Hrvatska d.o.o. in Croatia.  The Serbian government is trying to sell the company for
the second time in more than a decade. It originally sold a 49
percent holding in 1997 to  Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO)  of Greece and  Telecom Italia SpA. (TIT)   It bought back the Italian stake in 2003, pushing its
ownership back to 80 percent. The current 51 percent stake being
offered includes Hellenic’s current 20 percent.  If the government commission rejects the bid today, the
National Bank of Serbia’s forecast for foreign direct investment
inflows in 2011 would drop by half to 1.4 billion euros and
probably drive government borrowing costs higher, even after
 Standard & Poor’s  upgraded the Balkan nation’s credit rating to
BB from BB- on March 16, the first increase in five years.  ‘Investors’ Perception’  “It may affect investors’ perceptions of Serbia and it’s
possible that financing costs will rise,” said Dusko Vasiljevic
of the Belgrade-based Ceves economic institute.  In a March 23 note, analysts at Hypo Alpe Adria Bank warned
“government short-term debt will have to come at higher
prices.”  The government has already been drafting plans for a
Eurobond sale later this year should the sale fall through.
 Serbia  has relied on a 3 billion-euro bailout loan from the IMF
since mid-2009 to offset external liquidity pressures amid
capital flight triggered by the global financial turmoil that
hurt the country in late 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at   gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at  jagomez@bloomberg 