-- 
Ship Rejected in China on Radiation Heads to Japan

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-29T06:46:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/ship-rejected-in-china-port-on-abnormal-radiation-heading-back-to-japan.html
A ship that had “abnormal”
amounts of radiation after passing 67 nautical miles (124
kilometers) off  Japan ’s Fukushima prefecture, site of a crippled
nuclear-power station, was heading back to the country after
being rejected by authorities in  China .  The MOL Presence is due to arrive in Kobe on March 30 from
Xiamen, according to AISLive Ltd. ship-tracking data on
Bloomberg. A Xiamen port official, who declined to give their
name in a telephone call today, confirmed that the vessel had
left and declined to elaborate.  An inspection detected “abnormal” amounts of radiation on
the deck and the surface of containers on the Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd. vessel after it arrived in Xiamen on March 21,
according to a March 25  notice  on the website of the Xiamen
Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau. There were normal
levels in crew areas, it said.  Kazumi Nakamura, a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Mitsui
O.S.K., said today she couldn’t comment as she was traveling.
Calls to the City of Kobe’s port general affairs office and to
the Port of Kobe’s general affairs office went unanswered.  Radiation Concerns  Concerns about radiation leaking from the Dai-Ichi power
station have disrupted shipping from Japan with Hamburg-based
Hapag-Lloyd AG halting  Tokyo  calls, the Japan Coast Guard
advising ships to keep at least  30 kilometers  from the plant and
overseas ports scanning cargos. Tokyo port has tried to ease
fears through steps including posting information about
radiation levels  online .  “Radiation is not at a level where we should be
concerned,” Junko Tashiro, a port spokeswoman, said today by
phone. The nuclear-power plant, damaged following a magnitude-9
earthquake on March 11, is about 220 kilometers north of Tokyo.  Companies including Sony Corp. and Toyota Motor Corp. have
curtailed production since the quake and a subsequent tsunami
because of damaged factories or parts shortages. The nuclear-
power plant crisis has also caused electricity shortages.  U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection  scanned 355 boxes at the
Port of Los Angeles onboard the first container ship to arrive
in the country from Japan following the quake, according to
operator APL Ltd., a unit of Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. All boxes
on the vessel, the APL  Korea , were cleared for delivery.  Container Volumes  Japan accounts for about 3 percent of global container
volumes, compared with about 30 percent for China, according to
Barclays Plc. It is the third-largest container shipper to the
U.S. behind China and South Korea, with auto parts being the
largest component of cargos, according to  Piers , a shipping data
unit of United Business Media Ltd.  The MOL Presence used a berth in Xiamen before leaving and
anchoring offshore on March 23, according to the port bureau.
There was contamination at the berth, the bureau said. China is
Japan biggest export and import market, according to the  Japan
External Trade Organization .  Hapag-Lloyd has omitted port stops in Nagoya, Tokyo and
Yokohama because of “the current situation,” it said in a
statement on its website dated March 22. A March 25 update
showed that it was continuing to avoid these ports. A Hapag-
Lloyd spokesman couldn’t immediately be reached to comment.  Other lines are continuing business in Japan as usual.
Seoul-base Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. is operating its usual
services, Lee Jun Ki, a spokesman, said by phone today. STX Pan
Ocean Co.,  South Korea ’s biggest bulk carrier, is also operating
its vessels normally at Japanese ports, said Lim Wang Joo, a
spokesman.  APL is continuing its regular calls to Kobe and Yokohama,
Mike Zampa, a spokesman said today by phone. The shipping line
has directed vessels to stay 200 nautical miles from the
Fukushima area, he said.  The company has also stopped taking bookings for cargos to
be hauled by land or barge into “high risk” areas near the
nuclear plant, he said.  --Henry Sanderson. With assistance from Seonjin Cha in  Seoul ,
Anand Menon and Patricia Lui in  Singapore ,  Chris Cooper  in
Tokyo, Makiko Kitamura and Takehiko Kumakura in  Osaka  and Alaric
Nightingale in  London , as well as Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf.
Editors: Neil Denslow, Hellmuth Tromm.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 