-- 
Sinopec to Cut Costs, Expand Overseas as Refining Net Falls

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-28T01:35:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/sinopec-to-cut-costs-expand-overseas-operations-as-refining-profit-drops.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,
Asia’s biggest refiner, will cut costs and accelerate its
expansion overseas as government controls prevent the company
from passing on higher crude-oil prices to customers.  Profit rose 14 percent to a record 71.8 billion yuan ($11
billion) last year, the company known as Sinopec said yesterday.
Net income missed analysts’ estimates and trailed  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s
85 percent growth and PetroChina’s 35 percent increase.  Refining profit fell 13 percent last year as Sinopec paid
51 percent more to buy crude. The Beijing-based refiner, which
bought its first overseas oilfield stake in 2010, said it plans
to expand globally in the next five years to reduce dependence
on domestic fuel sales.  “Sinopec underperformed among its domestic peers because
of its bigger exposure to the refining business whose margins
are controlled by the state,” Shi Yan, an analyst at UOB-Kay
Hian Ltd., said by phone from  Shanghai . “Sinopec may want to
expand its upstream exploration segments, including the
development and acquisition of oilfields overseas, to counter
the negative impact of high crude oil costs.”  The refiner said in March last year it would pay its parent
China Petrochemical Corp. $2.5 billion for a share of an Angolan
asset to help offset the “challenges” in the refining business,
in its first acquisition of an oilfield stake outside China.  This month, Sinopec signed an agreement with Saudi Arabian
Oil Co. to take a 37.5 percent stake in a refinery in Yanbu as
the company known as  Saudi Aramco  expands oil-processing
capacity to meet domestic fuel demand.  Chinese Fuel Demand  Sinopec advanced 21 percent in Hong Kong trading in the
past year, compared with the 8.9 percent gain in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index . The stock dropped 2 percent to HK$7.69 at 9:33
a.m. local time.  Fourth-quarter profit fell 22 percent from the previous
three months to 15.4 billion yuan, according to calculations
made by subtracting third-quarter earnings from the full-year
net income.  Huang Wensheng , the Beijing-based spokesman for
Sinopec, didn’t reply to three phone calls seeking comment.  Sinopec, which gets 62 percent of its revenue from
producing and selling fuels, didn’t give fourth-quarter figures
in its earnings statement and revised its 2009 profit to 63.1
billion yuan from 61.8 billion yuan. The mean estimate of 15
analysts for 2010 net income was 72.5 billion yuan.  Oil processing volumes rose 13 percent in 2010 to 211
million metric tons as  China’s economy  grew at the fastest pace
in three years, spurring demand for energy. Crude refining may
increase to 222 million tons this year and oil-product output
may reach 132 million tons, according to the statement.  Government Price Controls  China,  Asia ’s biggest oil consumer, controls fuel prices to
curb inflation. The government raised tariffs three times last
year, by less than 5 percent each time, and cut once, while
average crude prices increased 28 percent in  New York  compared
with 2009.  Consumer prices rose 4.9 percent in February from a year
earlier, exceeding China’s 2011 target for a fifth month. The
state last increased fuel prices on Feb. 21, by as much as 4.6
percent, after crude surged above $100 a barrel on concerns that
anti-government protests in the Middle East and North Africa
would disrupt supplies.  Based on a mechanism introduced in December 2008, the
National Development and Reform Commission,  China ’s top economic
planner, can revise fuel prices when oil costs change by more
than 4 percent over 22 working days. Crude fell 0.2 percent in
New York on March 25 to settle at $105.40 a barrel.  Parent’s Assets  In October, Sinopec’s parent agreed to pay $7.1 billion for
a 40 percent stake in Repsol YPF SA’s Brazilian unit to help
meet Chinese demand. China Petrochemical and  Spain ’s largest oil
company are in talks on joint ventures around the world after
the investment, Repsol said on Jan. 4.  Sinopec’s parent said in December it would buy Occidental
Petroleum Corp.’s Argentine oil and gas unit for $2.45 billion,
marking the company’s first investment in the Latin American
country. The acquisition took Chinese bids for overseas energy
assets to a record $38.8 billion last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  -- Wang Ying . With assistance from  Paul Gordon  and John Duce in
 Hong Kong . Editors: Ryan Woo, Amit Prakash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wang Ying in Hong Kong at 
 Ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 