-- 
Spain Is Building Contagion ‘Firewall,’ Pimco’s Bosomworth Says

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-03-28T14:15:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/spain-is-building-contagion-firewall-pimco-s-bosomworth-says.html
Spain  is taking steps to build a
“firewall” to stem contagion from Portugal’s debt woes as it
cuts the deficit and retools its economy, said Andrew Bosomworth, a money manager at Pacific Investment Management Co.  “A firewall is what we are hoping for and the price action
in the markets appears to support it,” Bosomworth said in a
telephone interview from Munich. “I think the ingredients” for
it “are certainly in place,” he said.  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco managed $1.24 trillion of assets as of
December, including the world’s biggest bond fund.  The gap in yield between German and Spanish 10-year debt
narrowed for a third day to 188 basis points, its lowest level
since Feb. 2, while the spread on Portuguese debt widened, a
sign that investors are becoming more positive on Spain even
after the collapse of its neighbor’s government.  While Spain has won credibility for now with its pledges to
bring down the third-largest  budget deficit  in the euro region
and make its economy more competitive, investors will watch to
ensure the government meets its commitments, said Bosomworth, a
former European Central Bank economist.  “We’ve had the announcements and now it’s about the
execution and delivery of them,” said Bosomworth, 45. Pimco is
a unit of Munich-based Allianz SE.  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero has
changed rules on labor and pensions to bolster confidence in the
economy, and also committed to slashing the deficit to 6 percent
of gross domestic product this year from 9.2 percent in 2010.  Balance Sheets  The government has also given lenders deemed to be short of
capital about a year to bolster their balance sheets or risk
partial nationalization. The Bank of Spain, which says 12 banks
may need a combined 15.2 billion euros ($21.3 billion) to meet
new minimum  capital requirements , has told them they must  spell
out  by today how they intend to raise the money.  Banco Base, a grouping of four savings banks led by Caja de
Ahorros del Mediterraneo and Cajastur that needs to boost its
capital by 1.45 billion euros, said today it would tap the
government’s rescue fund. The lender follows savings banks that
have said they’ll take money from the fund, known as  the FROB ,
including CatalunyaCaixa, which will take 1.7 billion euros, and
Novacaixagalicia.  ‘Decoupling’  Yields on Spanish 10-year debt have fallen to 5.16 percent
from the euro-era record high of 5.67 percent on Nov. 30.
Portuguese 10-year bond yields jumped to 7.80 percent as the
spread between the debt of the two countries widened to 272
basis points from 246 basis points on March 23, the day of the
vote in Lisbon’s parliament that led to the government’s
collapse. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Analysts say it’s premature to conclude that Spain will be
able to stem contagion from a European debt crisis that has
caused Greece and Ireland to seek financial rescues. A bailout
for  Portugal , should the country request it, may total as much
as 70 billion euros, according to two European officials with
direct knowledge of the matter.  “It’s too early to say” whether a firewall has been built
for  Europe ’s debt crisis, said Luis de Guindos, a former deputy
finance minister in the government of Jose Maria Aznar and a
professor at  IE business school  in Madrid. “The fact is that
Spain is decoupling from Portugal and that’s a reality. Whether
this trend continues depends on the implementation of reforms
and the growth prospects for the Spanish economy.”  Bank Focus  Investors will look to see what progress the government
makes in cutting the deficit and repairing the finances of
regional administrations, de Guindos said by phone. Another
challenge will be how Spanish economic growth withstands the
prospect of higher  interest rates  signaled by the ECB, he said.  A concern for investors is the true scale of the capital
needs of lenders, said  Patrick Jacq , senior fixed-income
strategist at BNP Paribas SA. The amount of funds needed to
ensure an “adequate recapitalization” of Spanish banks may be
as high as 100 billion euros, according to  George Magnus , senior
economic adviser for  UBS Investment Bank  in  London .  “Spain as a country, as a government, has probably managed
to escape the crisis,” Jacq said. “The question that remains
is whether its banks have. We’re close to entering a period
where we’re going to see the focus shift away from the
sovereigns and back to the state of the banks.”  Spain is still in a “very, very tight spot,” Charles
Wyplosz, director of the International Centre for Monetary and
Banking Studies in Geneva, said in a March 24 interview with
Bloomberg Radio. “The Spanish government may have to bail out a
number of banks and there are good reasons to be nervous.”  Spanish banks’ capital needs, while probably higher than
the government’s estimates, may not be as high as some analysts
“blow them up to be,” said Soenke Siemssen, head of fixed-
income research at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. The
country’s lenders may need between 30 billion euros and 50
billion euros, he said.  “Spain has made progress,” Siemssen said. “It’s not a
strong fire-break, but I think it’s there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  