-- 
Spuntino’s Burgers Add Sizzle in Porn-Shop Zone: London Dining

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-03-27T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/spuntino-s-burgers-put-sizzle-into-london-porn-shop-street-richard-vines.html
It’s easier to get an indecent
proposal than a decent meal in Rupert Street. There’s a couple
of peep shows and a Prowler sex shop, and I’m sure those guys in
hoods on the corner all evening aren’t selling dreams.  “You want a massage?” a woman asked as I ambled up and
down the street in London’s Soho, looking around, peering in
windows, trying to find Spuntino, a new diner so hot that it
doesn’t need a sign that’s visible to the, erm, naked eye.  Spuntino is Italian for snack, not a porn film title. It’s
the latest venue of  Russell Norman  and Richard Beatty, who have
cleaned up over the past 18 months in Soho with Polpo and
Polpetto, two casual restaurants where you can’t make a booking
for dinner and you can spend an hour waiting for a table.  At Spuntino, which is open all day, you can’t book anytime
because there isn’t even a telephone line. Most of the 26 seats
are around a counter and you just stand until one comes free. In
the first week after opening on March 14, there were 1,000
customers. (There’s a small room at the back that seats seven
around an old school chemistry bench on which you are invited to
carve your initials. Mine are there: REV.)  The menu of American dishes is inspired by restaurants in
 New York , where Norman, 45, and his Australian chef, Rachel
O’Sullivan, 39, made repeat visits in search of ideas. The
macaroni and cheese at 8 pounds ($13), for example, followed a
meal at the Stanton Social. Spuntino’s version includes the
usual mozzarella and parmesan, with the addition of fontina and
also chopped leeks for texture.  Tribeca Inspiration  It’s finished and served in an individual skillet and has
so much rich flavor, I can’t remember tasting better. A group of
Americans I dined with loved it, as they did the grits with
Montgomery Cheddar, inspired by a version at Bubby’s, in
Tribeca. Sliders -- or mini-burgers -- include one with salt
beef and another with spiced mackerel.  Truffled egg toast (5.5 pounds) is one of the most popular
choices: a thick slice of bread from Flour Power City hollowed
out and filled with two yolks, surrounded by fontina cheese and
cooked in an oven with eight drops of truffle oil. It’s gooey
and also rich, so you might like to order a salad or a few
eggplant chips with fennel yogurt. (The truffled egg toast is a
homage to Ino, in the  West Village .)  Among the desserts, peanut butter and jelly is actually
peanut butter ice-cream molded to look like bread, with
raspberry coulis. Another favorite is thinly sliced pineapple
with licorice ice cream.  Kooky Tattoos  The food is very good but almost as important at Spuntino
is the ambience. Norman has a knack for finding kooky staffers
who are both very friendly and good at their job. There are more
tattoos on display behind the pewter-topped counter than you
might see at a Hells Angels’ convention.  The attention to detail at Spuntino is just extraordinary,
right down to the ice cubes, which -- instead of being perfectly
formed -- come in misshapen slices, just like at an American
diner.  The most dangerous cocktail is the Sazerac, served
Prohibition-style in a teapot. It contains a dash of Absinthe.
Wine starts at 19.50 pounds a bottle. If you’re not on a budget,
the A to Z unoaked 2009  Oregon Chardonnay  at 45 pounds or the
2009 Pinot Noir Drouhin Oregon at 70 pounds are top picks.  Spuntino isn’t for everyone. It’s crowded and noisy. It’s
also dark and the menu is hard to read. (There’s a “Torch of
Shame” for those who can’t make it out.) You’re squashed in
even before people start forming a line immediately behind you.
I’d say it’s a young person’s place if I didn’t like it so much
myself and if I hadn’t seen so many restaurateurs from around
London enjoying the buzz.  One evening, my guest and I felt the need to take a break
and stood outside for 10 minutes. First, a beggar approached and
then two women who decided they wanted to embrace us. This
appeared entirely acceptable behavior on Rupert Street until we
realized they were going through our pockets.  If Spuntino is New York-inspired, Rupert Street is more
like the Wild West.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 20-25 pounds for food, unless you are greedy.  Sound level? Starts at 75 decibels and keeps rising.  Inside tip? The bar stool at the far corner is for two.  Special feature? Tattoos.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Perfect if you don’t mind waiting.  Rating? ***  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80:  London  street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 