-- 
Status Reports on the Reactors at Japan’s Fukushima Nuclear Plant: Table

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 
2011-03-27T03:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/status-reports-on-the-reactors-at-japan-s-fukushima-nuclear-plant-table.html
The following is the  status  of each
of six nuclear reactors at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi  power plant  as of 9 a.m.,  Japan  time.  The company pumped fresh water into No. 1, No. 2, and No. 3
reactors, Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said. The
external power supply has been restored for all six reactors as
of March 22, according to Tokyo Electric Power.  Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said a
“certain level of progress” has been made while speaking on an
NHK television program today.  No. 1: Contaminated water in the turbine structure contains
10,000 times the radiation of regular cooling water, NHK said.
The company has started removing contaminated water from the
basement of the turbine building and will prepare more pumps to
drain the water, the agency said. The unit has been damaged
since a March 12 hydrogen explosion destroyed the building’s
walls. The seriousness of the reactor’s threat to safety is
rated level five on an  international  scale of 1-7.  No. 2: Contaminated water in the turbine structure contains 10
million times more radiation than normal cooling water, NHK said.
The company plans to remove contaminated water as early as today,
the agency said. The company plans to start using freshwater on
fuel pool from March 28, the agency said. The containment
chamber may have been damaged in a March 15 explosion, and a
power cable was reconnected to the unit on March 19. The reactor
is rated a level-five threat.  No. 3: Contaminated water in the turbine structure contains
10,000 times the normal radiation, NHK said. The company is
considering ways to remove the contaminated water, the agency
said. A March 14 explosion damaged the unit’s fuel cover. The
reactor is rated a level-five threat.  No. 4: The company plans to spray water in the spent-fuel
cooling pool this afternoon, the Nuclear and Industrial Safety
Agency said. The agency said on March 17 there may be no water
in the pool. It’s rated at three on the threat level. This
reactor was undergoing maintenance when the earthquake hit.  No. 5: The unit was idle for maintenance before the earthquake.  No. 6: The reactor achieved cold shutdown at 7:27 p.m. on March
20 when the temperature fell below 100 degrees Celsius, the
company said. A backup generator was fixed March 19, according
to a company press release. The unit was idle for maintenance
before the earthquake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Osaka at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei in Osaka at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  