-- 
U.K. Executive Pay Rises Will Likely Come in Bonuses, PwC Says

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-03-27T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/u-k-executive-pay-rises-will-likely-come-in-bonuses-pwc-says.html
Executives at the U.K.’s largest
350 companies will have to rely on a higher bonus rather than a
pay rise to get an increase in compensation this year, according
to a study by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Almost one in four companies plan to freeze executive
directors’ salaries in 2011 and the rest will award managers a
pay rise of around 3 percent, the London-based business advisers
and accountants said in an e-mailed statement today. Thirty
percent of companies plan to raise the maximum potential bonus,
according to the survey.  “Given current economic volatility and political scrutiny,
decisions on pay are not going to get easier,” Sean O’Hare,
reward partner at PwC, said. “Companies will need to get it
right as a significant increase in bonus payments will result in
difficult conversations with shareholders.”  Bank chiefs including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  Bob Diamond ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s  Stuart Gulliver  and  Stephen Hester  at  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  are in line for multi-million pound
bonuses as banks recover from the global financial crisis.  The median bonus for chief executive officers in the
benchmark  FTSE 100 index (UKX)  jumped 30 percent last year to 111
percent of their salary, said PwC, which surveyed directors in
charge of pay and human resources.  Tougher Requirements  The median potential bonus rose to 175 percent of base
salary from 150 percent, PwC said. One in six companies is
toughening the conditions required to achieve the maximum
payout, it said. The proportion of companies introducing bonus
clawback mechanisms is doubling to 40 percent, while a majority
of businesses have deferred bonus arrangements.  This year will be the third in a row of executive salary
increases rising in line with or below national average
earnings, PwC said.  “Shareholder activism on pay has stepped up substantially
over the last few years and seems to be having an effect,”
O’Hare said. “The difficulty for remuneration committees will
be managing executives’ expectations, which are rising again
post-recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh News at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  