-- 
U.K. Carbon Price Won’t Quicken European Emissions Cuts, EU Says

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-27T15:56:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/u-k-carbon-price-won-t-quicken-european-emissions-cuts-eu-says.html
A U.K. effort to speed up cuts in
 greenhouse gases  by setting a minimum price for  carbon emissions 
will not translate into faster reductions in the rest of the
European Union, the EU’s regulatory arm said.  The U.K. measure, which aims to wean British utilities from
burning fossil fuels by setting a minimum price for carbon,
won’t help the EU reach its targets for reducing greenhouse
gasses more quickly, said Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman
for the European Commission in Brussels. The reason is that
other nations in the bloc will offset any additional emissions
cuts in the U.K. by making fewer cuts of their own, he said by
e-mail today.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said on
March 23 that Britain would set a minimum or floor price for
carbon-dioxide permits of 16 pounds ($25.67) per metric ton of
carbon in 2013. The EU cap-and-trade program has no floor or
ceiling price.  The U.K. approach “will not deliver any additional
emission reductions in the EU,” Valero-Ladron said.  The EU emissions trading system, the world’s largest, is
the cornerstone of the bloc’s strategy to cut greenhouse gasses,
which some scientists blame for global warming. It sets an EU-
wide emissions limit and imposes pollution limits on more than
11,000 utilities and manufacturers in the region, including
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s largest oil company,
ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, and Electricite de
France SA, Europe’s No. 1 power generator.  Quota-Buster Fines  Companies emitting more than their quota must buy
allowances on the market from those polluting less or pay a fine
of 100 euros ($140.88) for each additional ton of discharges.
The EU set the program’s average annual limit at 2.08 billion
tons of carbon dioxide for the 2008-2012 period.  EU permits for delivery in December closed at 16.85 euros a
ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  on March 25,
extending their gains to 18 percent this year. One allowance
entitles the buyer to emit one ton of CO2.  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said last month
the current carbon price doesn’t give a sufficient incentive for
emitters to invest in the new technologies necessary for Europe
to meet its 2050 goal of reducing domestic emissions by 80
percent.  The commission opposes introducing a floor price in the
region’s cap-and-trade program, preferring to let the market
determine the price even when European permits dropped to as
little as 1 euro cent in 2007 amid an oversupply of allowances.  The best way for the EU to increase carbon prices and
strengthen the incentive for companies to curb emissions is for
the bloc to increase targets for cuts in greenhouse gasses,
Valero-Ladron said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  