-- 
U.K. Private Investors Boost Stock Holdings to Three-Year High

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-03-27T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/u-k-private-investors-boost-stock-holdings-to-three-year-high.html
Private investors holdings in U.K.
equities reached 233 billion pounds ($373.4 billion) at the end
of February, the most since November 2007, as global stocks
approached a two-year rally, according to Capita Registrars.  Individuals invested 473 million pounds in stocks in the
three months to the end of February, adding to 977 million
pounds in the previous six months, the unit of London-based
 Capita Group Plc (CPI)  said in a statement today. Private investors’
share of British equities rose to 11.8 percent, the highest
since August 2009. Their combined stake reached a record low of
10.9 percent in May 2010.  “With cash offering such paltry  interest rates , bond
yields exceptionally low, and property on shaky ground, private
investors have been attracted by strong dividend yields and the
recovery in corporate profits,” Charles Cryer, chief executive
officer of Capita Registrars, said in the release.  The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  has risen 68 percent since
reaching a six-year low on March 3, 2009, as central banks
around the world lowered interest rates and companies boosted
earnings. The gauge this month erased its gains for 2011 after
 Japan  suffered its worst earthquake on record, raising concern
demand from the world’s third-largest economy will wane.  The British benchmark rebounded 3.2 percent last week.  “Until six months ago, investors had spent well over a
year almost exclusively focused on buying defensives and selling
cyclicals,” Cryer wrote. “There has now been a distinct change
in behavior, buying both types of shares. This usually indicates
cautious optimism over the outlook for equities, rather than
suggesting private investors feel shares are especially cheap,
or especially risky.”  So-called cyclical stocks tend to do better when the
economy grows, while defensive shares outperform when the
economy slows.  Capita Registrars is Britain’s largest book-keeper of
shareholdings and corporate actions by number of clients. The
firm computes stakes owned by individuals in the companies it
oversees, before using the result as a sample to assess private
investors’ ownership of the broader market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Alexis Xydias} in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  