-- 
Clinton Says U.S. Won't Intervene in Syria, Sees Progress in Libya Fight

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-03-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/u-s-won-t-intervene-in-syria-unrest-clinton-says-on-cbs.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the U.S. won’t enter into the internal conflict in Syria
the way it has in Libya, where the international effort to
protect civilians from  Muammar Qaddafi  is progressing.  “No,” Clinton said when asked on the CBS program “Face
the Nation” if the U.S. would intervene in Syria’s unrest.
Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad’s security forces clashed with
protesters in several cities over the weekend after his promises
of freedoms and pay increases failed to prevent dissent from
spreading across the country.  Clinton said the elements that led to intervention in Libya
-- international condemnation, an Arab League call for action, a
United Nations Security Council resolution -- are “not going to
happen” with  Syria , in part because members of the  U.S.
Congress  from both parties say they believe Assad is “a
reformer.”  “What’s been happening there the last few weeks is deeply
concerning, but there’s a difference between calling out
aircraft and indiscriminately strafing and bombing your own
cities,” Clinton said, referring to Qaddafi’s attacks on the
Libyan people, “than police actions which, frankly, have
exceeded the use of force that any of us would want to see.”  Unique Situations  “Each of these situations is unique,” Clinton said,
referring to the North African and Middle Eastern countries
dealing with change and unrest, a list that now includes Yemen,
Jordan, Egypt, Libya,  Morocco , Syria and  Bahrain .  Clinton was interviewed with Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
on a round of Sunday television talk shows, taped March 26, as
Libyan rebels moved into the central city of Ajdabiya,
recaptured Brega in the east and advanced toward the strategic
oil port of Ras Lanuf as U.S. and allied warplanes bombarded
Qaddafi’s tanks, artillery and soldiers along the coastline.  Yesterday, rebel forces recaptured Ras Lanuf and advanced
toward Qaddafi’s hometown of Sirte. The  North Atlantic Treaty
Organization , which agreed March 24 to take responsibility for
the no-fly zone, yesterday assumed command of all aspects of the
military operation enforcing the UN mandate to ensure the safety
of Libyan civilians, including attacks on Qaddafi’s forces on
the ground.  Support from Defectors  Clinton said defectors from the Libyan military and
government are offering more support to the rebels, who, she
said, are “not a well-organized fighting force.”  “But they are getting more support from defectors, from
the former Libyan government military,” Clinton said on CBS.
She said that “a lot” of diplomats and military leaders in
 Libya  “are flipping, changing sides, defecting because they see
the handwriting on the wall.”  Gates said on CBS that the U.S. was receiving “a lot” of
intelligence reports that Qaddafi “has been taking the bodies
of people he’s killed and putting them at the sites where we’ve
attacked.”  “We have trouble coming up with proof of any civilian
casualties that we have been responsible for,” the defense
secretary said. Coalition forces have been “extremely careful
in this military effort,” Gates said.  Gates told NBC’s “Meet the Press” that the U.S. hasn’t
made a decision about whether to arm the Libyan rebels. “The
Security Council resolution would permit it,” Gates said,
referring the  United Nations Resolution 1973 . “But no decisions
have been made by our government about it,” he said.  ‘Vital Interest’  Asked on NBC whether the mission in Libya was vital to U.S.
interests, Gates said: “No, I don’t think it’s a vital interest
for the  United States , but we clearly have interests there and
it’s a part of the region, which is a vital interest for the
United States.”  Senator  Carl Levin , chairman of the  Senate Armed Services
Committee , told  CNN ’s “State of the Union” that the role of
the international military effort in Libya is to weaken Qaddafi,
and that doing so may help the opposition groups to dislodge
him.  “He can be so weakened and so put in a corner that he’s
unable to slaughter his own people,” the Michigan Democrat
said. Asked how the intervention helps the U.S., Levin said,
“There’s a democracy movement, and we should be on the side of
that movement.”  ‘Not at Stake’  Senator  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , ranking Republican on the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told “Meet the Press” that
President  Barack Obama  thus far hasn’t offered a plan or
objectives for U.S. involvement in Libya and that there should
have been congressional debate on the issue.  “I don’t believe we should be engaged in a Libyan civil
war,” Indiana’s Lugar said. “American interests are not at
stake.”  Obama is scheduled to address the nation today about the
situation in Libya.  Gates said that Libyan unrest had potential ripple effects
for Tunisia and  Egypt . Both countries have toppled their leaders
and have been dealing with refugees fleeing Libya.  “You had a potentially significantly destabilizing event
taking place in Libya that put at risk potentially the
revolutions in both Tunisia and Egypt, and that was another
consideration,” Gates said, explaining the U.S. interest in
taking action. Egypt, he said, is key to Middle East stability.  Middle Eastern Issues  While Libya dominated the interviews with ABC, CBS and NBC,
Gates and Clinton were also asked about turmoil in Yemen and
strains with  Saudi Arabia . Saudi King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz al
Saud has sent troops into Bahrain, where the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet is based, to help quell unrest.  Gates said on NBC that both the U.S. and Saudi Arabia are
concerned that  Iran  will take advantage of the regional
turbulence.  ‘We have a very strong relationship with Saudi
Arabia,’’ Gates said.  “Do we have some differences of view? Absolutely,” he
said. “But that happens between friends all the time.”  The potential fall of Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
is a “real concern” for the U.S., Gates said on ABC, “because
the most active and, at this point, perhaps the most aggressive
branch of al-Qaeda -- al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula --
operates out of Yemen.”  The protest movement against Saleh has grown in momentum
since March 18, when police and snipers killed 46 protesters in
the capital in the worst violence since the unrest began two
months ago.  ‘Additional Challenges’  Gates said Saleh and his security services have given the
U.S. “a lot” of counterterrorism cooperation. “If that
government collapses or is replaced by one that is dramatically
more weak, then we’ll face additional challenges out of Yemen,
there’s no question about it,” Gates said. “It’s a real
problem.”  Even as the defense secretary said the military is planning
to scale back its role in Libya, he stressed that it will
continue to play a role there.  “As long as there is a no-fly zone and we have some unique
capabilities to bring to bear -- for example, intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance, some tanking ability -- we will
continue to have a presence,” Gates said.  Clinton called international action on Libya a “watershed
moment in international decision-making” on ABC.  International cooperation took place in “record time,”
Clinton said, adding that the 1990s bloodshed in places like
 Rwanda , the Balkans and Kosovo taught the world the dangers of
delay. “I’ve never seen anything like it, where the world spoke
so unequivocally,” she said.  The U.S. is “nowhere near” negotiating Qaddafi’s
departure, Clinton told NBC. A  United Nations  envoy will work
with Qaddafi and those around him, she said. That envoy will
deliver a message to Qaddafi loyalists, said Clinton, who framed
that message in two questions: “Do you really want to be a
pariah? Do you really want to end up in the international
court?” -- a reference to the  International Criminal Court  in
 The Hague .  Gates said on NBC that “one should not underestimate the
possibility of the regime itself cracking.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  