-- 
Hungary’s New Monetary Council Likely to Keep Key Rate Unchanged

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-03-27T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/hungary-s-new-monetary-council-likely-to-keep-key-rate-unchanged.html
Hungarian rate-setters, half of
whom are new members of the Monetary Council, will probably keep
the benchmark interest rate unchanged for a second month as they
watch inflation developments.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  will leave the two-week deposit
rate unchanged at 6 percent, according to the forecast of all 23
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The decision will be announced
at 2 p.m. today in Budapest.  Hungarian policy makers were the first to begin raising the
benchmark rate to tackle inflation among the three biggest
eastern economies in the European Union, citing the pace of
price growth. Three quarter-point rate increases since November
were considered sufficient to steer inflation toward the central
bank’s 3 percent target, allowing a pause in raising borrowing
costs.  “We don’t expect a change in the interest rate,”  Gyorgy Barta , an economist at CIB Bank, a unit of Intesa Sanpaolo SpA,
said in an e-mail. “There is no reason for further tightening
but there isn’t sufficient room for easing either in light of
the current global sentiment.”  The inflation rate in February rose to 4.1 percent from 4
percent in January, matching the forecast of economist and
adding to arguments to leave  interest rates  unchanged. The
forint strengthened to an 11-month high against the euro on
March 25, after the government sold $3.75 billion in dollar-
denominated bonds, the country’s biggest issue on record.  New Members  Central bank President Andras Simor and his two deputies
will be joined today by Janos Cinkotai, Ferenc Gerhardt and
Andrea Bartfai-Mager, whom Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s ruling
party named to the panel this month. Gyorgy Kocziszky will join
the body next month.  Concern that the new policy makers may cut interest rates
to help the government’s pro-growth economic policies eased
after they told parliamentary hearings this month that fighting
inflation would be the priority. The main rate may stay
unchanged in the “coming months,” Gerhardt said on March 7
after his hearing.  The government, which criticized the central bank for being
slow to cut rates last year and quick to raise them, stripped
Simor of his right to nominate two of the four outside members
of the Monetary Council. European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet on March 3 said the European Commission may sue
Hungary over the changes in the nomination process.  The Hungarian central bank is also expected to publish
today the main forecasts in its quarterly inflation report. The
report, which will be presented in its entirety on March 30,
will now include a forecast on the direction of the benchmark
interest rate, as well as “qualitative information” on the
scope of interest-rate steps necessary to meet the inflation
target, Magyar Nemzeti Bank Chief Economist Agnes Csermely said
on March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  