-- 
Sebastian Vettel Opens Formula One Title Defense With Victory in Australia

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-27T10:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/vettel-wins-season-opening-australian-grand-prix-lewis-hamilton-is-second.html
Sebastian Vettel opened the defense
of his Formula One world championship by winning the Australian
Grand Prix for the first time.  Red Bull’s Vettel led from pole position to checkered flag
at  Melbourne ’s Albert Park circuit to finish 22.2 seconds ahead
of McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton . Vitaly Petrov of Lotus Renault
finished third to secure the first podium place of his career.  The 23-year-old Vettel, who last season became the youngest
driver to win the title, secured his 11th race victory to become
the first defending champion to start with a win since  Fernando Alonso  at the 2006 Bahrain Grand Prix.  “It was a good race,” Vettel said in a televised news
conference. “In the end things calmed down a bit. Lewis didn’t
push as hard anymore so we could control the last part of the
race. The start was crucial. I had a very good getaway.”  Vettel’s best result in his previous three starts in
Melbourne was 13th in 2009. He failed to finish in his two other
appearances at Albert Park.  Ferrari’s Alonso was fourth, ahead of Vettel’s Red Bull
teammate  Mark Webber , who was again unable to finish higher than
fifth place in his home race.  In the second McLaren,  Jenson Button , seeking a third
straight win in Melbourne, finished sixth after he was penalized
for an illegal passing move. Sauber pair Sergio Perez and Kamui
Kobayashi, Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa  and Toro Rosso’s Sebastien Buemi rounded out the top 10.  Michael Schumacher  was among six of the 22 drivers to
retire from the 58-lap race. The record seven-time champion quit
on lap 23 as a precaution following a puncture.  Vettel Clear  Vettel, who said before the weekend that he’s targeting
Schumacher’s record tally of titles, pulled clear at the start
and built a 2.6-second lead at the end of lap one. He made two
pit-stops and ran most of the race on his own out front.  That left the other drivers battling for the minor podium
position. Petrov, who started from sixth place on the grid, held
off two-time world champion Alonso to secure his first top-three
finish in 20 starts.  “Our car looks very strong,” Petrov said. “We just
focused on our race. The team did everything perfectly and we
must be proud of our podium place.”  Hamilton, who won the series in 2008, guided his car across
the finish line in second place even after being warned by his
team via the car radio that his car was damaged. Teammate Button
had to make a drive-through penalty after using a slip road to
pass Massa early in the race.  ‘Good Pace’  “A week or two ago we were not expecting to be anywhere
near the top five,” Hamilton said. “Generally we’ve got good
pace and I’m looking forward to the next race. At the end I was
trying to nurse the car home and bring in those points.”  With teams focusing on tire strategy and management after
new supplier Pirelli designed its tires to degrade more quickly
than its Bridgestone predecessors, most of the field made two
stops. Alonso and Webber used three-stop strategies, while
Mexican rookie Perez stopped once on his way to seventh place.  Nico Rosberg  in the other Mercedes went out of the race
after a collision with Williams’s  Rubens Barrichello , whose
teammate Pastor Maldonado was the first to quit. Virgin’s Timo Glock and Heikki Kovalainen of Lotus-Renault also didn’t finish.  The second race of the season is scheduled April 10 in
 Malaysia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  