-- 
Vettel Opens Formula One Title Defense With ‘Faultless’ Win in Australia

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-03-27T14:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/vettel-opens-f-1-defense-from-pole-with-faultless-victory-in-melbourne.html
Sebastian Vettel began his Formula
One world championship defense where he left off last season
by leading all the way from a pole-position start.    Vettel got away cleanly in his Red Bull at the start of
yesterday’s Australian Grand Prix and finished 22.2 seconds
ahead of McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton  for his first victory in
 Melbourne . Vitaly Petrov of Lotus Renault sealed the first
podium place of his career in third.  Vettel, 23, who last year became the youngest driver to
take the title with a pole-to-flag triumph in Abu Dhabi, secured
his 11th career victory to become the first defending champion
to start the season with a win since  Fernando Alonso  at the 2006
Bahrain Grand Prix.  “Sebastian’s been dominant all weekend and to turn up and
win the first race with a faultless drive was fantastic,” Red
Bull Team Principal Christian Horner said in a statement. “To
have book-ended the two championships by winning the last race
in  Abu Dhabi  and the first race here is a fantastic
achievement.”  Vettel, who hadn’t managed to score a point in his previous
three starts in Melbourne, took pole position after recording
the fastest-ever lap around the 5.3-kilometer (3.2-mile) Albert
Park circuit of 1 minute 23.529 seconds. Hamilton was almost
eight tenths of a second slower in qualifying second.  ‘Very Good Race’  “I try to keep saying to the team that we have to keep our
feet on the floor,” Vettel said in a televised post-race news
conference. “It was a very good race. A lot of points and I
think we enjoyed ourselves, which is even more important. But it
is a long year, a lot of things can happen.”  Ferrari’s Alonso finished fourth, ahead of Vettel’s Red
Bull teammate  Mark Webber , who was again unable to finish higher
than fifth in his home race.  Jenson Button , seeking a third straight win in Melbourne,
was sixth in the second McLaren after being penalized for an
illegal passing move. Sauber’s Sergio Perez and Kamui Kobayashi
ran seventh and eighth though were later disqualified by the
race stewards for technical infringements on their cars.  The decision promoted Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa  to seventh,
Toro Rosso’s Sebastien Buemi to eighth, Force  India ’s Adrian Sutil to ninth and Force India’s Paul di Resta to 10th in his F-
1 debut.  Michael Schumacher  was among six of 22 drivers to retire
from the 58-lap race. The seven-time champion quit on lap 23 as
a precaution after a puncture and damage to the floor of the
car.  Podium Positions  Vettel, who said before the weekend that he’s targeting
Schumacher’s record tally of titles, pulled clear at the start
and built a 2.6-second lead by the end of lap one. He made two
pit-stops and ran most of the race on his own out front.  “The car was quick from the first moment on, which we know
now, but also very reliable,” Vettel said. “That is the key.
It is the first time I have finished the Australian Grand Prix
as well, so I am really, really happy.”  The other drivers were left fighting out the minor podium
positions. Petrov, who started from sixth place on the grid,
held off two-time world champion Alonso to secure his first top-
three finish in 20 starts.  “I’m delighted to be on the podium, especially after the
winter that we had as a team, which was very tough,” said
Petrov, whose teammate  Robert Kubica  is out for the season after
being seriously injured in an offseason rally crash. “Even
during testing we didn’t really know where we were compared with
the others, but we continued adding new parts to the car this
weekend and they worked pretty well.”  ‘Good Pace’  Hamilton, who won the series in 2008, guided his McLaren
across the finish line in second place even after being warned
via radio that his car was damaged. Teammate Button had to make
a drive-through penalty after using a slip road to pass Massa
early in the race.  “A week or two ago we were not expecting to be anywhere
near the top five,” Hamilton said. “Generally we’ve got good
pace and I’m looking forward to the next race. At the end I was
trying to nurse the car home and bring in those points.”  With teams focusing on tire strategy and management after
new supplier Pirelli & C. SpA designed its tires to degrade more
quickly than its Bridgestone predecessor, most of the field made
two stops. Alonso and Webber used three-stop strategies, while
Mexican rookie Perez stopped once on his way to seventh place
before his disqualification.  Nico Rosberg  in the other Mercedes retired after a
collision with Williams’s  Rubens Barrichello , whose teammate
Pastor Maldonado was the first to quit. Virgin’s Timo Glock and
Heikki Kovalainen of Lotus Renault also didn’t finish.  The original season-opening race, due in Bahrain on March
13, was postponed because of civil disorder. The next race is
scheduled April 10 in  Malaysia .  “We learned a lot of things,” Vettel added. “It’s good
coming here after a long winter and setting the pace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  