-- 
Wal-Mart to Open Half of Japan Stores Shut After Earthquake

-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a ,   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-03-28T11:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/wal-mart-to-reopen-half-of-japanese-stores-hampered-by-earthquake-tsunami.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, is resuming normal operations at half the
stores hampered by  Japan ’s strongest earthquake as residents
struggle to find water, food and other necessities.  A dozen of Wal-Mart’s Seiyu stores in the quake-hit Sendai
area are restarting full operations today after being limited
mostly to relief efforts for two weeks, Scott Price, Wal-Mart’s
Asia chief, said in an interview yesterday. Of the remaining 12
stores, 10 will be opened as soon as possible and two may take a
“long time” because they’re covered in mud, he said.  Retailers from Wal-Mart to 7-Eleven operator Seven & I
Holdings Co. are racing to open stores and replenish shelves
after the March 11 disaster left hundreds of thousands in the
Tohoku region, northeast Japan, scrambling for shelter, food and
water. The magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami knocked out more
than 1,000 stores in the Tohoku and Kanto regions, according to
estimates at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   “Food, daily necessities and clothes are needed as the
scarcity of goods will likely continue for some time,” said
Mikihiko Yamato, an analyst at Japaninvest KK in Tokyo. “It’s
better to open shops where they can as soon as possible even
with limited operating hours.”  Tohoku Stores  In northeastern Japan, which bore the brunt of the tsunami,
relief workers are struggling to provide residents with two
meals a day, with self-defense forces helping provide food,
local authorities said. Evacuees in the hardest-hit Miyagi
prefecture may rely on authorities for basic needs for the next
two to three months as temporary homes are built, said a
spokesman for the local disaster control headquarters who asked
to be identified by his last name, Tokairin.  Seven to nine percent of Japan’s convenience stores are in
the earthquake-hit Tohoku region, with less than half having to
close, according to March 16 estimates at Goldman Sachs.  Seven & I, Japan’s biggest retailer, has gotten about 95
percent of its 1,454 shops in Tohoku and Ibaraki to remain open,
according to Katsuhiko Shimizu, a spokesman for the company.
Still, communication with the devastated areas remains difficult,
he said.  Tsuruha Holdings Inc. (3391) , Japan’s third-biggest drugstore
chain by market value, had to halt operations at 14 outlets in
Tohoku and Ibaraki, said Hiroyuki Fukuuchi, a spokesman. After
the earthquake hit, the company resorted to ad-hoc methods to
serve customers, he said.  FamilyMart, Starbucks  FamilyMart Co. had 585 stores closed in Tohoku as of March
26, while  Lawson Inc. (2651)  has yet to reopen 911 shops in the region,
according to spokespeople at the convenience-store operators.  More than half of McDonald’s Holdings Co. Japan’s 256
stores in the affected areas of Tohoku and Ibaraki were shut as
of March 25, said Kazuyuki Hagiwara, a spokesman.  Starbucks Coffee Japan Ltd. (2712) , a joint venture between a
local company and the world’s biggest coffee-shop chain, said a
team is in the region “to support the operation of shops that
have been damaged.” The company has about 50 shops in Tohoku.  Doutor Nichires Holdings Co. said March 25 that it had
opened about half of about 100 coffee shops closed right after
the quake. The operator has approximately 800 outlets in Japan,
of which about 85 are in Tohoku excluding Ibaraki, said Kazuhiro Sekine, a company spokesman.  Ikea Group today opened one store in Kanagawa prefecture,
which is part of the Kanto region, Chiharu Ohhata, a spokeswoman,
said today. Most Ikea workers moved from the Kanto region to the
Kansai prefecture west of  Tokyo , including Mikael Palmquist, the
country manager, have returned, Ohhata said. The Kanto region
encompasses Tokyo and six prefectures, including Kanagawa.  Handing Out Water  Wal-Mart, whose Japan operations consist of 371 Seiyu
outlets nationwide, said it began handing out bottled water and
noodles from the parking lots of its stores less than four hours
after the earthquake hit. The company said it gave away about
$650,000 of products in the first four days.  “The best service we could provide to our customers was to
get our stores open in the affected area where possible, even if
it meant just handing out mass amounts of bottled water and
instant noodles,” said Price, whose wife’s family is from
Sendai. Engineers need to test the structural integrity of the
stores before they are opened, he said.  The distribution center in Sendai recovered to about 65
percent of normal operations within a week and 95 percent by
yesterday, Price said. Wal-Mart used another distribution center
in Kanto during the first week to keep up with demand, he said.  ‘Panic Buying’  “There was a huge amount of panic buying going on,” he
said in the interview. “Even our stores from Tokyo were
stripped bare. We’d never seen anything like that before.”  To supply its trucks, Wal-Mart bought fuel from another
multinational that shut for a week, and found a service station
in northern Japan “to commit to us,” Price said.  Toru Noda, chief executive of the Japan operations, plans
to visit Sendai today, according to Wal-Mart. Price, who was
about to get on a plane to  Hong Kong  from the U.S. when the
earthquake hit Japan, plans to visit April 4.  The company also said it would donate $5 million in cash
and kind, on top of donations collected by a fund-raising
campaign involving its international operations, from  Argentina 
and  Brazil  to  China .  “Wal-Mart has a lot of experience in dealing with
disasters learning from the earthquakes in China,  Chile  and also
the Katrina disaster,” Price said. “Within minutes of the
earthquake in Japan we activated our emergency operations center
in  Bentonville  and command centers in Tokyo and Hong Kong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  