-- 
World-Beating Bonds Heading for Longest Rally Since 2007: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-28T05:42:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/world-beating-bonds-heading-for-longest-rally-since-2007-australia-credit.html
Australian corporate bonds are
returning more than four times as much as global company debt
this quarter as accelerating economic growth drives the longest
rally among developed nations.  Bondholders have earned 2.8 percent since Dec. 31 including
reinvested interest, beating the 0.6 percent gain for corporate
debt worldwide and 1 percent on U.S. notes, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Eight straight quarters of gains
is the best winning streak since 2007 and longer than the
advances in the Merrill Lynch indexes of debt sold globally or
in the U.S.,  Canada ,  Japan ,  Europe  and the U.K., which all
posted losses in the final three months of 2010.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia is forecasting the economy
will expand 4.25 percent this year, the fastest pace since 1999,
as Chinese and Indian demand for  iron ore  and coal spurs the
nation’s biggest resources boom in a century. Local bond sales
by companies and banks have increased 17 percent this quarter
from the same period in 2010, while relative yields on
Australian dollar-denominated corporate notes have fallen faster
this year than on global debt.  “The outlook is strong with bond demand still outstripping
supply and a healthy corporate sector,” said John Sorrell, the
Sydney-based head of credit at Tyndall Investment Management
 Australia  Ltd. who helps manage about A$14 billion ($14.4
billion) of fixed-income assets. “Australia has a healthy feel
about it due to its links into the China story and  Asia .”  Record Profits  The 200 members of Australia’s benchmark stock index have a
combined A$116 billion in cash, a 55 percent increase from two
years earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on
their latest annual results.  Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest
mining company, reported record first-half profit of $10.5
billion last month, driven by an almost threefold gain in iron
ore prices. Australia’s four biggest banks reported aggregate
profits of A$11.2 billion in their latest half-yearly results,
about A$3.7 billion higher than a year earlier.  SP AusNet (SPN) , which manages a A$6.3 billion electricity and
gas network, and the owner of Melbourne airport were among
companies whose bonds outperformed the 0.8 percent return on
Merrill Lynch’s Australian Corporate and Collateralized Index
this month.  The extra yield investors demand to own Melbourne-based SP
AusNet’s A$300 million of 7.5 percent bonds due in September
2017 instead of similar-maturity government debt has fallen 17
basis points this quarter to 198, Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. prices show.  Melbourne Airport, Woolworths  Spreads on Melbourne Airport’s A$100 million of 6 percent,
December 2015 notes have narrowed 20 basis points to 260.  The relative yield on Woolworths Ltd.’s A$500 million of
five-year notes, priced to yield 105 basis points more than the
swap rate on March 7, has fallen 13 basis points to 92, ANZ
prices show.  Interest rates  on Australian dollar-denominated investment-
grade corporate bonds average 6.55 percent, seven times more
than Japanese company debt and 248 basis points more than U.S.
equivalents, Merrill Lynch index data show.  “Yields are particularly attractive” for offshore buyers,
said Victor Rodriguez, head of the Australian fixed income unit
at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which manages $287 billion
worldwide. They’re “investing in a  bond market  where our
government is very well positioned in a fiscal sense and our
corporates are pretty sound,” he said.  Sovereign Burden  Australia’s sovereign burden of A$184 billion is 22 percent
of gross domestic product compared with 59 percent in the U.S.,
and is the smallest in the developed world after  Hong Kong ,
Bloomberg data show.  Ten-year government bond yields fell 5 basis points this
quarter to 5.495 percent. Yields on similar-dated Treasuries
increased to 3.457 percent from 3.294 percent in the same
period.  The RBA raised its benchmark interest rate seven times
between October 2009 and November last year to 4.75 percent, the
highest in the developed world.  The increases helped bolster Australia’s dollar, the
world’s fifth-most traded currency, which touched a record
$1.0294 on March 25. The currency climbed 6 percent in the past
six months against the greenback, the second-best performance
among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, to $1.0262 at 4:33
p.m. in Sydney today.  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors expect consumer prices
will rise an annual 2.94 percent for the next five years, the
fastest among eight developed nations tracked by Bloomberg. RBA
Governor Glenn Stevens said in a speech this month that global
prices are facing “upward pressure” on rising demand in Asia.  Inflationary Pressure  Economists are forecasting inflation in  China  to accelerate
to 4.6 percent this year. In  India , key wholesale-price
inflation unexpectedly quickened to 8.31 percent in February,
led by manufactured product costs.  The extra yield investors demand to own Australian dollar
corporate bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt fell
to 160 basis points on March 16, the lowest since January 2008,
according to Merrill Lynch index data.  The spread was last at 163, or 12 basis points more than
global company bonds. The gap between the two narrowed to 3
basis points on March 16, the least since July 2009.  “Credit spreads still more than compensate for default
risk and they continue to represent value for investors,” said
 Robert Mead , Sydney-based head of  portfolio management  at
Pacific Investment Management Co., the  Newport Beach ,
California-based manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 