-- 
Saleh Rules Out More Concessions, Says Yemen Is ‘Time Bomb’ Near Civil War

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-03-28T17:28:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-27/yemen-s-president-says-nation-is-time-bomb-nearing-civil-war.html
Yemen ’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh said he would offer no more concessions to his opponents
and warned that his nation faces chaos, as a senior military
official and former ally of the embattled leader called for him
to step down.  “Yemen is a time bomb,” Saleh said in an interview with
Al Arabiya television, according to a transcript published
yesterday by the state-run Saba news agency. “Everyone will
side with his tribe, and we will then end up with a destructive
civil war.”  Dozens of lawmakers, as well as senior military officers,
Cabinet ministers, diplomats and tribal leaders have abandoned
Saleh’s ruling General People’s Congress since March 18, when
police and snipers killed 46 protesters in the capital, Sana’a,
in the worst violence since the unrest began two months ago.
Saleh has been a key U.S. ally in the fight against Islamic
militant groups in the region including al-Qaeda.  In a speech delivered yesterday via a spokesman to
thousands of protesters in Sana’a, Ali Mohsen al-Ahmar, the
commander of Yemen’s First Armored Division, said Saleh should
respect the demands of the people and “step down from the
presidency peacefully.”  End of Concessions  Al-Ahmar’s speech, in which he vowed to support the
“peaceful youth revolution, whatever the cost will be,” came
after the ruling party agreed that Saleh would stay in power
until the end of his term in 2013, according to a statement
published on its website.  Since the protests began more than two months ago, Saleh
has tried to placate demonstrators with concessions ranging from
a proposed national unity government to promises that neither he
nor his son will seek office after 2013.  The Yemeni president said yesterday in a speech to the
party’s standing committee that there would be “no more
concessions from now on,” Saba reported.  The speech shows “he is out of touch with reality and he’s
going to fight to maintain power,” said  Theodore Karasik ,
director at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East & Gulf
Analysis. “That’s dangerous. He could use more violence to
achieve his goals since concessions didn’t seem to work for
him.”  ‘Real Problem’  Saleh dismissed Mohammed Ali Mohsen, a military commander
for the country’s eastern region, a week after he defected in
support of protesters, the Defense Ministry said in a statement
on its website today.  Saleh’s son-in-law, Yehia Mohammed Ahmed Ismail, also
defected today.  “From this stage, I declare my joining and support to the
youth of the revolution,” he told a rally in the Tagheer Square
in the capital Sana’a.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said yesterday that he
sees the possible fall of Saleh as a “real problem.” The U.S.
has aided the government’s fight against al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula, the Yemen-based group responsible for sending two
parcel bombs to U.S. synagogues in October and the attempted
bombing of a Detroit-bound plane on Dec. 25, 2009.  The situation in Yemen is “worrying,” U.K. Defense
Secretary  Liam Fox  said yesterday, “not just because of the
imminent collapse of the regime there, but because we know that
al-Qaeda have been particularly active in Yemen.”  Control Lost  Yemen’s central government “has lost control of a number
of areas, including Aljouf, Saada and parts of Ma’rib,” Gregory
Johnsen, a Yemen expert at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey ,
said by telephone. “As the stalemate continues, the Yemeni
government doesn’t have the ability to take on the battle
against al-Qaeda and they then may be able to raise money and
get weapons. That is the big fear.”  Seven Yemeni soldiers were killed in an ambush in Ma’rib,
Saba reported today. In the southern governorate of Abyan,
Yemen’s  Defense Ministry  said on March 26 on its website that
three suspected al-Qaeda militants were killed and six detained.
An explosion at a weapons factory today killed at least 80
people, Naser al-Mansri, head of the local council in the
Khanfar district of southern Abyan Province, said in a telephone
interview.  “The bodies were torn to pieces and charred, which made it
difficult to see how many they are,” said al-Mansri.  The government blamed al-Qaeda for the explosion, Saba
reported, citing an unidentified official.  Security Gap  Yemen’s air force bombed the town of Ja’ar in the south of
the country amid clashes in the surrounding area, Al Jazeera
television said.  “Al-Qaeda is making use of the loose security situation
caused by the protests,” Ahmed al-Sufi, Yemen’s presidential
press secretary, said in a telephone interview yesterday from
Sana’a. The group “is encouraged by the obstinate position of
the opposition over a peaceful transfer of power.”  Sheikh Sinan Abu Luhoom, leader of Yemen’s largest tribe,
said on March 24 that he supports the demands of anti-government
demonstrators, according to a statement e-mailed by Yemeni
protest groups. Abu Luhoom’s tribe is second in influence only
to Saleh’s own tribe, the Hashid, which announced its support
for the opposition on March 20.  “I have been in power for 32 years and I want to transfer
it to people peacefully, not with chaos,” Saleh told Al Arabiya
television in an interview. “Protesters are the minority and
they don’t consist of 2 percent of the people.”  Thousands of demonstrators gathered again today in Sana’a
to demand Saleh’s departure as a sandstorm enveloped the city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Dubai at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  