-- H.K. Share Sale Drought Worsens, Everbright Pulls Deal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-27T03:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/h-k-share-sale-drought-worsens-everbright-pulls-deal.html
China Everbright Bank Co. (601818)  became the
latest company to scrap a first-time share sale in Hong Kong,
where listings are on track for the worst year in almost a
decade.  Everbright Bank will delay the offering because of
“continuous sluggish  capital markets  and relatively low
valuations of banking shares,” it said in a statement to
 Shanghai ’s stock exchange late yesterday. The sale could have
raised about $1.7 billion, based on the price of Everbright Bank
shares traded in Shanghai.  Everbright Bank had already cut the proposed size of the
share sale from $6 billion last year. The lender joins companies
including London-based diamond retailer Graff Diamonds Corp. and
Chinese machinery maker Sany Heavy Industry Co. in shelving at
least $4.8 billion of offerings in  Hong Kong  this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Beijing-based lender will restart listing preparations
when there is a “relatively good window,” according to the
filing.  As  Europe ’s debt crisis and concerns about  China ’s economic
slowdown roiled stock markets, companies have raised just $5.7
billion in first-time offerings in the city this year, down from
$14.3 billion in the same period of 2011. Companies raised $1.9
billion going public in Hong Kong in the first nine months of
2003, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The figures include offerings by companies already listed
elsewhere.  Profit Pressure  Chinese banks trade at close to record-low  valuations  in
Hong Kong amid expectations that borrowers will have trouble
repaying debt as the nation’s economy slows. China is also
loosening controls on how much banks can charge borrowers,
allowing them to lower  interest rates  to take market share,
potentially hurting profit from lending.  First-half earnings at Chinese banks will mark their “last
solid results with a bumpy road ahead,” Deutsche Bank AG
analysts wrote in a July research note. The analysts expect the
nation’s 16 publicly traded lenders to post net income growth of
16 percent for the first six months, followed by a 1.5 percent
drop in the second half of the year.  Everbright Bank last week  reported  a 40 percent gain in
first-half profit, to 12.9 billion  yuan  ($2 billion). The
lender’s core capital adequacy ratio, a key measure of financial
strength, rose to 8.05 percent as of June 30 from 7.89 percent
at the start of the year. The ratio is still lower than the 8.5
percent minimum requirement imposed under new capital rules to
be phased in next year.  Deals Pulled  Sany Heavy Industry Co., China’s biggest machinery maker,
scrapped a $2 billion share sale in Hong Kong last month, while
Graff Diamonds Corp., based in  London , canceled a $1 billion
initial offering in May.  Bank of Communications Co., the nation’s fifth-largest,
yesterday raised $8.9 billion by selling 6.5 billion shares in
Shanghai and 5.8 billion shares in Hong Kong through a private
placement.  China Merchants Bank Co. (3968)  last month extended by
another year its plan to raise as much as 35 billion yuan
through a rights offering.  China’s central bank in June began to allow banks to charge
less for loans as it liberalizes rules on how they set interest
rates. After widening the discount on borrowing costs to 20
percent below the benchmark rate that month, it increased the
gap to 30 percent in July.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  