-- ‘Obama’s America’ to Add Theaters After Exceeding Forecasts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-08-27T20:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/-obama-s-america-to-add-screens-after-beating-sales-forecasts.html
The documentary “2016: Obama’s
America” will expand to about 1,600 theaters after taking in
$6.51 million in sales over the weekend and topping analysts’
forecasts, writer and co-director Dinesh D’Souza said.  The film, a critical look at President Obama’s view of
America’s role in world affairs, has collected $9.35 million in
the U.S. and  Canada  since it opened in one theater in July, to
become the top-grossing political documentary this year,
researcher  Box Office Mojo  said. The movie was expected to take
in $5.8 million, the forecasts of Mojo and Boxoffice.com.  “There are a lot of areas where this movie isn’t even
showing,” D’Souza, president of The King’s College in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “I’m just thrilled to see how
the film is striking a chord.”  “Obama’s America,” based on D’Souza’s best-selling 2010
book “The Roots of Obama’s Rage,” examines influences that
shaped Obama’s world view, including time living as a youth in
 Indonesia  and the experiences of his Kenyan relatives under
British colonial rule. This past weekend the movie expanded to
1,091 locations from 169 after winning praise from talk show
host  Rush Limbaugh  and the  Hoover Institution ’s Thomas Sowell.  The film, distributed by Salt Lake City-based Rocky
Mountain Productions, was made for about $2.5 million. The
makers spent another $7.5 million to market it, D’Souza said in
an Aug. 23 interview. The closely held company also distributed
2011’s “Atlas Shrugged” based on the novel by  Ayn Rand .  The picture, ranking seventh last weekend, outdrew two new
releases: “Premium Rush” from  Sony Corp. (6758)  and “Hit & Run”
from Open Road Films, according to Hollywood.com Box-Office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  