-- M&T to Buy Hudson City in Deal Valued at $3.7 Billion
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-27T20:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/m-t-to-buy-hudson-city-in-deal-valued-at-3-7-billion.html
M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  agreed to buy Hudson
City Bancorp for about $3.7 billion in the banking industry’s
biggest takeover this year as it seeks to expand in New Jersey.  Under terms of the agreement, each Hudson City shareholder
will receive 0.08403 of an M&T share in the form of either M&T
stock or cash, the companies said today in a statement. The deal
values Hudson City about 12 percent higher than the company’s
closing price on the Nasdaq Stock Market on Aug. 24.  M&T will gain 135 branches, including 97 in New Jersey,
becoming the fourth-largest lender in the state by deposits. The
Buffalo, New York-based company will add $25 billion in deposits
and $28 billion in loans, according to the statement. The
acquisition, which includes branches in  New York  and
 Connecticut , is the biggest takeover of a U.S. bank announced in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a very attractive transaction for M&T right off the
bat,” said Joseph Fenech, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP in New York who has a buy rating on M&T’s shares.
“If you look up and down the M&T franchise from upstate New
York to Virgina, two of the holes were  Long Island  and  New
Jersey .”  Hudson City  climbed  16 percent to close at $7.45 in New
York, the most since July 1999, and M&T gained 4.6 percent to
$89.82. Paramus, New Jersey-based Hudson City has advanced 19
percent this year and M&T has risen 18 percent, compared with a
20 percent increase in the 24-company KBW Bank Index.  Breakup Fee  The deal’s breakup fee is 3.25 percent of the merger value,
which would be distributed to both lenders, the companies said
today on a conference call following the announcement. Hudson
City Chief Executive Officer Ron Hermance, 65, said M&T
approached his bank about the takeover, and there was “not a
bidding process at all,” he said.  Hudson City was developing a plan to hire 230 people over
the next few years “and do the kind of things that M&T was
doing” when they were sought out by the larger lender, Hermance
said on the call. “It wasn’t a competitive process.”  Hermance returned to Hudson City Aug. 1 after taking
medical leave in February to receive a bone-marrow transplant.  The takeover of Hudson City creates a “comprehensive
community-banking franchise that provides a full range of
checking and savings accounts, debit and credit cards, home-
equity loans and other lending options, plus small-business and
commercial-banking services,” M&T CEO Robert G. Wilmers, 78,
said in the statement.  Wilmington Trust  The U.S. Treasury Department  said  earlier this month it
priced an offering of the preferred stock it holds in M&T as
part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program. As a result, the
Treasury will no longer hold any shares of M&T’s preferred
stock, though it still holds warrants to purchase about 1.7
million common shares, according to a statement at the time.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc., run by billionaire  Warren Buffett ,
owned 5.4 million shares, or a 4.3 percent stake, as of June 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Omaha, Nebraska-
based firm is M&T’s third-largest shareholder after Wellington
Management Co. and State Street Corp.  M&T expanded in 2011, when it bought Wilmington Trust Corp.
for more than $400 million to build market share in  Delaware  and
expand  wealth management  and corporate services to boost fee
income. In 2009, M&T bought Provident Bankshares Corp. to add
deposits in the mid-Atlantic region.  Secondary Market  Hudson City was the largest U.S. bank to forgo a government
bailout. The lender took an after-tax charge of $440.7 million
last year from the early repayment of $4.3 billion of so-called
structured putable borrowings. The company said it was under
pressure from regulators to reduce risk.  Denis Salamone, Hudson City’s acting chairman and CEO, said
earlier this year that it had become difficult for the bank to
profitably expand its residential-lending portfolio amid record-
low  interest rates  and the participation of government-sponsored
enterprises in the market. As a result, it began evaluating a
“variety of strategies” to adapt, he said.  “Historically, we have kept all of our loans on our
balance sheet,” Salamone said in July. “While we will continue
to offer loans to keep in our portfolio, we will also begin to
offer residential  mortgage loans  that are eligible for sale in
the secondary market.”  Salamone said at the time that the company planned to start
making commercial loans to help balance its risks.  Toronto-Dominion  Bank of America Corp., Wells Fargo & Co. and  Toronto-
Dominion Bank (TD)  are the largest banks in New Jersey. They all
expanded by acquiring other lenders in the state, which is the
third-wealthiest in the U.S. by per-capita income, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Toronto-Dominion,  Canada ’s second-
largest lender, bolstered its presence in New Jersey in 2008
with the purchase of Cherry Hill-based Commerce Bancorp Inc. for
more than $7 billion.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is Hudson City’s banker on the deal,
while Sullivan & Cromwell LLP provided legal advice. M&T is
using Evercore Partners Inc. and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  