-- Abengoa Plans to Reshape Share Structure to Improve Flexibility
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-08-27T16:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/abengoa-plans-to-reshape-share-structure-to-improve-flexibility.html
Abengoa (ABG)  SA, a Spanish engineering
and renewable-energy company, said it planned to reshape its
share structure to give it greater financial flexibility for
growth including a U.S. stock listing.  Abengoa called an extraordinary shareholders’ meeting for
next month to authorize the issue of new class B shares that it
will offer in exchange for existing class A or B shares, the
company said in a  filing  to regulators today. Abengoa will also
ask investors to approve the  class B  shares trading in the U.S.,
the Seville-based company said.  The B stock can attract new investors as Abengoa targets
growth, Chief Executive Officer Manuel Sanchez Ortega said today
on a webcast for analysts. The plan entails distributing four
new B shares for each A or B share that investors currently
hold, the company said.  Class B shares “are a familiar instrument on international
markets and, in particular, in the  United States of America ,
where Abengoa has an increasing presence both in the development
of its business and on the  capital markets ,” the company said.  The new class B shares share the same dividend rights as
class A shares but carry one vote compared to 100 votes for the
class A shares, the company said. Abengoa said it would give
investors five years to opt to convert A shares into B shares
and the transaction will only go ahead if it is approved by the
majority of class A stockholders other than its controlling
shareholder.  The extraordinary  shareholders’ meeting  will take place on
Sept. 30, Abengoa said. The company has no plans for a capital
increase, Sanchez Ortega said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  