-- Ackman Urges General Growth to Pursue Takeover by Simon
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-08-28T16:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/ackman-urges-general-growth-to-pursue-takeover-by-simon.html
(Corrects  Jim Sullivan ’s title in eighth paragraph of
story published on Aug. 27.)  Bill Ackman’s  Pershing Square 
Capital Management LP, the second-largest investor in  General
Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , urged the mall owner to enter
negotiations for a takeover by rival  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG)   General Growth should “immediately form a special
committee” and “initiate negotiations with Simon promptly,”
Ackman said in a letter filed today with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Ackman first said on Aug. 23 that Simon was
interested in buying Chicago-based General Growth.  “We believe the Simon transaction is in the best interest
of GGP shareholders and will have a positive impact on
substantially all other stakeholders,” Ackman said in today’s
letter to General Growth’s board.  General Growth, the No. 2 U.S. shopping-mall owner, exited
bankruptcy protection in November 2010 following a takeover
battle between Indianapolis-based Simon, its larger competitor,
and an investor group that included Pershing Square and
 Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM)  General Growth filed for
bankruptcy in 2009 after weighing itself down with $27 billion
in debt that it was unable to refinance because of the financial
crisis and collapse of the commercial mortgage-backed  securities
market .  A takeover by Simon may be hard because Brookfield, General
Growth’s largest investor, has said it doesn’t want to sell its
shares, said John Sheehan, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St.
Louis . Brookfield has a 42 percent stake in General Growth, and
the company’s chairman is J. Bruce Flatt, chief executive
officer of Brookfield.  ‘Mathematically’ Difficult  “It would be difficult for Simon to complete a transaction
unless Brookfield changes their public stance,” said Sheehan,
who has a hold rating on Simon’s shares. “Even if you got every
other shareholder to agree to it, mathematically it would be
hard for them to make it work.”  David Keating , a General Growth spokesman, and Andrew Willis, a spokesman for Toronto-based Brookfield, declined to
comment on Ackman’s letter today. A message left for Les Morris,
a Simon spokesman, wasn’t immediately returned.  “Simon buying GGP has substantial strategic merit,” said
Jim Sullivan, managing director for real estate investment trust
research at Green Street Advisors Inc., based in  Newport Beach ,
California. “The impediment is you have a substantial
shareholder that may not be a very willing shareholder, when it
comes to selling, so I would expect Simon not to invest a lot of
time in this if it involved pursuing a prize that’s not readily
attainable.”  General Growth rose 1.3 percent to $20.02 at the close of
 New York  trading.  ‘Create Liquidity’  Simon has discussed paying 0.1765 of a Simon share for each
General Growth share, according to Ackman. That would would
value General Growth at $27.73 a share, based on Simon’s Aug. 24
closing price.  That gives General Growth a higher per-share value than
Simon’s proposed takeover from more than two years ago. Simon
said in May 2010 that it offered $20 a share for its competitor,
which was under  bankruptcy protection  at the time.  Ackman said last week that Brookfield had also expressed
interested in taking over General Growth. Following Ackman’s
disclosure, Brookfield said in a statement that it “is not
taking any steps” to buy General Growth and that Pershing
Square was trying to “create liquidity for its interest” in
the company.  “At no time has Pershing Square sought liquidity for its
GGP stake in conversations with Brookfield, Simon or
otherwise,” Ackman wrote in today’s letter. Pershing Square
would be able to sell its General Growth stake within 90 days
“with minimal if any market impact” if it wanted to, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  