-- AES Corp. Unit Sues Idaho Wind Farm Developer for Payment
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-27T21:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/aes-corp-unit-sues-idaho-wind-farm-developer-for-payment.html
An  AES Corp. (AES)  unit sued an Idaho
wind-farm developer for allegedly failing to fully pay for 32
turbines and related equipment it agreed in May to buy for $34.6
million.  Exergy Development Group of Idaho LLC didn’t fulfill the
agreement after an initial delay resulted in a renegotiated
payment schedule and a price increase of more than $3 million,
according to a complaint filed at the U.S. court in Boise on
Aug. 22.  AES New Creek LLC is seeking an award of unspecified money
damages including interest from Boise-based Exergy, according to
the complaint. Exergy’s chief executive officer said payment is
forthcoming.  In a statement today, Exergy CEO James Carkulis attributed
the slow payment to a case pending before the Idaho Public
Utilities Commission which “has made project financing
reluctant to close on Idaho projects for several months.”  “We have put a substantial down payment on these turbines
and we fully intend to complete our purchase and use them in
other projects,” Exergy’s CEO said. “We have projects under
development in 17 states, Argentina and  Canada , over half of
which shall be online by the end of 2013.”  Exergy made a non-refundable payment of more than $1.7
million when the contract was signed on May 30, according to the
AES complaint.  According to  its website , Arlington, Virginia-base AES
Corp. is a 31-year-old developer and operator of traditional
thermal  power plants  as well as solar- and wind-power generators
with operations in 27 countries on five continents.  AES rose 5 cents to $11.56 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The case is AES New Creek LLC v. Exergy Development Group
of Idaho LLC, 12cv433, U.S. District Court, District of Idaho
(Boise).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  