-- Airbus Said to Be Nearing Chinese Order Exceeding 100 Jets
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-08-27T14:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/airbus-said-to-be-nearing-chinese-order-exceeding-100-jets-1-.html
Airbus SAS is close to winning an
order from China for more than 100 narrow-body planes in what
would be the European manufacturer’s single biggest agreement
this year, three people familiar with the negotiations said.  Chief Executive Officer Fabrice Bregier will head to China
this week to join  Tom Enders , the CEO of Airbus parent European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. Enders is traveling with German
Chancellor Angela Merkel on a state visit to China, where Airbus
assembles narrow-body jets for the local market.  A purchase exceeding 100 planes would help the Toulouse,
France-based company narrow the gap in orders this year with
 Boeing Co. (BA) , which dominated the Farnborough Air Show last month
with its 737 Max airliner. Airbus has said that its intake would
slow this year after customers rushed to buy its A320neo in
2011, a more fuel-efficient version of Airbus’s bestseller.  The agreement is still being negotiated, said the people,
who declined to be named because the discussions are private.
Eduardo Galicia, a spokesman for Airbus, declined to comment.
Two calls after office hours to the Civil Aviation
Administration of  China , or CAAC, which approves most aircraft
orders in China, went unanswered.  Final Step  The A320 has a list price of about $88.8 million, though
airlines typically buy at a discount. Airbus had secured orders
for 301 passenger jets through the end of July, less than half
of Boeing’s tally and leaving the European planemaker at the
mid-point of its minimum 2012 target of 600 units.  Contract signatures by CAAC are the last step for Chinese
airlines to secure orders. Airlines frequently negotiate with
plane manufacturers and agree on purchases, only to then wait
for approval from the government body.  Airbus is in the process of evaluating the future of its
assembly facility in Tianjin, China. The company owns 51 percent
of the venture and China’s Avic owns the rest. The facility
began delivering A320 jets in 2009, and the 100th plane will
roll off the line at the end of this week.  The Chinese team wants to build 284 single-aisle jets by
June 2016. The facility is churning out more than three planes a
month, with the rate of four monthly to come by year-end.  The Tianjin plant will deliver the last planes in the same
year that state-controlled Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China
Ltd. aims to have a rival plane with 168 seats in service, aimed
initially at the domestic market. Airbus also intends to start
delivering its A320neo with new engines from late 2015.  A large Chinese government order for Airbus A320s would be
the first since the country joined  India  and the U.S. in
protesting European Union plans to include airlines in its
carbon market from this year.  China has already backed off signing for at least 35 Airbus
wide-body planes. Single-aisle planes, which range from the 124-
seat A319 to the 185-seat A321, aren’t part of the dispute as
they are shorter range and wouldn’t link China with  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  