-- Taiwan Dollar Climbs on China Stimulus Speculation; Bonds Steady
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-08-27T08:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/taiwan-dollar-climbs-on-china-stimulus-speculation-bonds-steady.html
Taiwan’s dollar gained on
speculation China will take further steps to combat an economic
slowdown.  Government bonds  were little changed.  Global funds bought $586 million more Taiwanese shares than
they sold last week, boosting net purchases for the month to
$3.11 billion, exchange data show. Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao
urged extra measures to help meet economic targets as he toured
Guangdong, the nation’s biggest exporting province, the official
Xinhua News Agency said Aug. 25. China, the world’s second-
biggest economy, is the island’s biggest trading partner.  “China wants to stabilize exports and keep its economy
going,” said Tarsicio Tong, a foreign-exchange trader at  Union
Bank of Taiwan. (2838)  “It’s mainly exporters selling the greenback.”  Taiwan’s dollar advanced 0.1 percent to NT$29.98 against
its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, was little changed at 3.3 percent.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy
makers can take additional steps to boost the economy before
they meet on Aug. 30 in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming. The central bank
has already conducted two rounds of bond purchases to pump cash
into the banking system, a policy known as quantitative easing.  The yield on Taiwan’s 1.25 percent notes due March 2022 was
little changed at 1.183 percent, according to Gretai Securities
Market.  The  overnight money-market rate  slipped one basis point to
0.386 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Centre. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  