-- Taliban Behead 17 Afghans in Southern Militant Stronghold
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-08-27T07:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/taliban-behead-17-afghans-in-southern-militant-stronghold-1-.html
Taliban militants opened fire and
then beheaded 17 Afghan civilians, including two women, in the
southern province of Helmand, the government said.  The Ministry of Interior Affairs condemned in a statement
the “inhumane and cowardly act” yesterday that it said
occurred in the region’s Kajaki district. The victims had
gathered for a celebration and were listening to music and
dancing when the attack took place, the  Associated Press 
reported, citing provincial government spokesman Daoud Ahmadi.
The  area  is under Taliban control, the  news agency  said, making
it hard to gather details. AP said the killings were in
Helmand’s Musa Qala district.  Helmand is a militant stronghold where Taliban insurgents
yesterday also killed 10 Afghan soldiers in an attack. In other
violence, an Afghan soldier shot dead two members of the NATO
force in the country’s east, the latest in a series of so-called
“insider attacks” that have cast a shadow over the transition
of security duties to local troops.  The Taliban regime ousted by U.S. forces following the
Sept. 11 attacks banned music, games and other forms of
entertainment during its five years in power. The movement
interpreted Islamic law as banning women from work and school
and requiring them to wear the burqa in public.  Shootings Surge  Killings of Western troops by Afghan forces have raised
questions about a U.S. strategy that depends on training and
developing the Afghan army and police so that coalition combat
troops can leave by the end of 2014.  There have been more than 40 insider killings so far this
year, including about a dozen in the past month, compared with
35 in all of 2011, according to the  International Security
Assistance Force .  General John Allen, the top allied commander in
 Afghanistan , said this month that the attacks won’t disrupt his
strategy or require pulling troops from patrols with Afghan
forces.  The general indicated Aug. 23 he doesn’t agree with an
assertion by the Afghan government that spy agencies from other
countries were behind most of the attacks.  “I’m looking forward to Afghanistan providing us with the
intelligence that permits them to come to that conclusion,”
Allen said. U.S. officials have attributed most of the episodes
to personal grievances and stress on Afghan forces.  About 25 percent of the attacks stem from Taliban
insurgents who infiltrate and impersonate Afghan forces or who
coerce Afghan soldiers to turn against the coalition, Allen
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  