-- Allstate Has Lower Louisiana Risk as Isaac Approaches
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-27T20:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/allstate-has-lower-louisiana-risk-as-isaac-approaches.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL)  may benefit from its
decision to scale back homeowners’ risk in Louisiana and cede
market share to State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., as
Tropical Storm Isaac threatens the U.S. Gulf Coast.  Allstate’s sales of residential policies in Louisiana fell
to $209 million last year, 19 percent less than in 2006,
according to A.M. Best data compiled by Bloomberg. State Farm,
the only U.S. homeowners’ carrier larger than Allstate, sold
$466 million of the protection in the state in 2011, a 25
percent increase from five years earlier.  Isaac may make landfall early Aug. 29 in southeastern
Louisiana with winds as strong as 90 miles (144 kilometers) per
hour, according to the National Hurricane Center. Allstate, led
by Chief Executive Officer Tom Wilson, has been raising prices
for coverage, buying reinsurance and shifting where it sells
policies to improve homeowners’ underwriting results nationally.  “They’ve cut back on coastal exposure, in general,” Paul Newsome, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, said of
Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate in a phone interview today.
“It’s been a major strategy for them.”  Allstate fell 12 cents to $37.64 in  New York  today, and is
up 37 percent since Dec. 31. State Farm is owned by
policyholders and isn’t publicly traded.  Allstate has taken “prudent but difficult actions to
responsibly manage risk so that it can be in a strong position”
for all its customers, April Eaton, a spokeswoman for the
company, said in an e-mail.  State Farm seeks to “manage its business growth carefully,
and is continuing to do so,” said Holly Anderson, a spokeswoman
for the Bloomington, Illinois-based insurer.  Louisiana Risk  Insured losses in the U.S. from Isaac could be more than
$800 million with most of the costs in Louisiana, according to
estimates from Kinetic Analysis Corp. compiled by Bloomberg.
 Hurricane Katrina , the 2005 storm that caused levees to fail in
 New Orleans , cost insurers  $41.1 billion . Allstate dropped 11
percent in the four weeks ended Sept. 21, 2005, as the company
confronted losses from Katrina.  Isaac may peak at Category 1 strength on the five-step
Saffir-Simpson scale, according to a forecast from the hurricane
center. Katrina grew into a Category 5 system, the strongest,
and went ashore as a Category 3, according to  Weather
Underground  in Ann Arbor, Michigan.  BP Plc (BP/)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  were among oil producers
evacuating personnel or halting production at offshore rigs and
platforms in the Gulf. The  Republican Party ’s national
convention in Tampa was pushed back a day from its scheduled
start today even as Isaac tracked west of earlier forecast paths
that indicated it might hug  Florida ’s western coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  