-- Americans Would Rather Read About Platforms Than Speeches
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-08-27T19:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/americans-would-rather-read-about-platforms-than-speeches.html
More Americans are interested in
what the Democratic and Republican platforms have to say,
rather than the party’s presidential nominees, according to a
 poll  released today.  The Pew Research Center for the People & the Press survey
was taken as Republicans gathered in Tampa, Florida, this week
and Democrats prepared to meet a week later in Charlotte,  North
Carolina .  The poll found 52 percent of U.S. adults interested in the
Republican Party platform and 55 percent interested in the
Democrats’ statement of principles, both of which will be
adopted at their quadrennial gatherings. The documents will
contrast the parties’ positions on a number of issues such as
taxes, foreign policy and immigration.  The Republicans are expected to call for auditing the
 Federal Reserve  and reiterate their opposition to abortion
rights, while the Democratic platform is to endorse same-sex
marriage.  According to the Pew survey, 46 percent of adults are
interested in the acceptance speech by Romney’s choice for vice
president, U.S. Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin. Forty-
four percent are interested in Romney’s speech. That’s lower
than the 53 percent who said they wanted to hear from 2000
Republican presidential nominee  George W. Bush  in Philadelphia
and the 52 percent interested in the address by the party’s 2008
nominee,  John McCain  in St. Paul, Minnesota.  Democratic Convention  Fifty-one percent of adults say they are interested in
President Barack Obama’s acceptance speech and 52 percent say
they want to hear from the previous Democratic president,  Bill Clinton , who is to nominate the current incumbent in Charlotte.  Majorities say they aren’t interested in either convention.
For the Democrats, 57 percent say they aren’t interested and 43
percent said they are, a reversal of four years ago when 59
percent wanted to watch the gathering that nominated the first
black national candidate of a major political party. In 2008, 41
percent expressed no interest.  For the Republican convention, 55 percent say they aren’t
interested in the proceedings, compared with 51 percent in 2008.  The poll of 1,010 adults taken Aug. 23-26 had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Tampa,  Florida  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  