-- Hamptons Scene, Bruce Richards, $40,000 Colicchio Dinner
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-08-27T16:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/hamptons-scene-bruce-richards-40-000-colicchio-dinner.html
Bruce Richards  stood under a party
tent anchored by multiple stakes in the lawn of his Southampton
home. He was hosting the United Way of  New York  City “What’s on
the Table?” benefit Saturday night.  “They promised it will all be back to normal tomorrow,”
said the chief executive of Marathon Asset Management LP, who
clearly didn’t mind supporting programs that fight hunger and
boost nutrition in New York City.  Wearing a light-blue Brioni jacket, Richards and his wife,
Avis, welcomed more than 300 guests to their property. Her
dressy white shorts were covered in pink and yellow flowers.
Tickets were $250, and the event raised more than $200,000.  Among its many initiatives, United Way of  New York City 
funds urban farms, teaches healthful cooking, and brings local
farm produce to food pantries.  Nutritionist Leigh Kusovitsky said she spends about 25
percent of her job at food pantries and soup kitchens.  Last week a family at a pantry in Queens, New York, left
with a bag of whole-wheat pasta, fresh eggs, green beans and
bread from a local bakery.  “It looked like what anyone would get at a supermarket,”
Kusovitsky said, adding that the United Way promotes and funds
“client choice” at pantries, allowing clients to select their
own food.  Guests had their choice of produce from a farm stand set up
near the driveway. On their way out they filled up brown paper
bags with peppers, eggplant, zucchini and corn.  Small Plates  During the party, healthy fare came on small plates
prepared by chefs at  Tom Colicchio ’s restaurants, including
peaches served with prosciutto or sweet ricotta, from Craftbar’s
Lauren Hirschberg.  William Hardie, a managing director at Houlihan Lokey, gave
the evening a boost with his $40,000 bid for a dinner prepared
by Colicchio with music by Jon Bon Jovi. The chef and the rocker
were event co-chairmen.  Was it odd to be helping the hungry at a party in the
Hamptons? “Whatever it takes to get people to show up and open
up their wallets, that’s what it’s about,” Hardie said.  Colicchio’s wife,  Lori Silverbush , encouraged guests to
call their representatives in Congress to protect funding in the
Farm Bill for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. Her
documentary about hunger, “A Place at the Table,” is set for
theatrical release in February 2013.  “What’s hard is when people don’t ask the obvious
question, which is why we have double the food we need in this
country, and people are still hungry,” she said.  Rose Garden  John Demsey , the group president of  Estee Lauder Cos. Inc. (EL) ,
checked out the rose garden with hybrid varieties planted by the
home’s former owner, philanthropist Carroll Petrie.  Interior decorator Raphael Di Tommaso, who is working on
the home, pointed out highlights on the first floor such as an
old snooker table and books he arranged by color.  On the kitchen counter were home-baked muffins and Think
bars. The Richards family eats healthy, said son Dylan, a junior
at Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School.  With the help of his film-producing mom, he presents 90-
second videos on a show called  “Dylan’s Lunchbox,”  in which he
cooks nutritious meals with restaurant chefs. They appear on
YouTube and NYC Life, the flagship station of NYC Media, the
official network of the City of New York. A half-hour series of
the same name is scheduled to have its premiere on Oct. 31.  “He makes a very good challah,” his mom said.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 