-- Isofoton Challenges Hanwha Bid for Solar-Cell Maker Q-Cells
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-08-27T14:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/hanwha-draws-competing-approach-for-insolvent-solar-cell-maker.html
Hanwha Group’s bid to buy the
insolvent German manufacturer  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  drew a competing
approach from a Spanish power-plant builder that also wants to
own what was once the biggest solar-cell maker.  Isofoton SA was approved to bid for Q-Cells after Chief
Executive Officer Angel Luis Serrano met with the German
company’s insolvency administrator Henning Schorisch today,
according to an e-mailed statement from Isofoton. Serrano will
present the bid, to be made with a U.S. investor it didn’t
identify, to Q-Cells’ creditors at an Aug. 29 meeting, it said.  Hanwha,  South Korea ’s 10th-largest industrial group,
yesterday signed a contract with Q-Cells to pay as much as 40
million euros ($50 million) for the Thalheim-based company’s
headquarters, factories in Germany and Malaysia, as well as
sales units in the U.S., Australia and  Japan , Hanwha said today
in an e-mailed statement. The deal is subject to approval from
Q-Cells’ creditors at their meeting, it said.  Interest has increased in Q-Cells after its filing for
protection from creditors in April. The company’s market value
dropped to 34 million euros after its shares fell 98 percent in
the last three years. Q-Cells rose as much as 40 percent in
 Frankfurt  today, and was up 12 percent, at 19.1 euro cents a
share, as of 4:53 p.m. local time.  “Isofoton is still confident that there’s a chance to buy
Q-Cells as the creditors haven’t yet agreed to the Hanwha bid,”
Carl Graf von Hohenthal, a spokesman for Isofoton working for
Brunswick Group GmbH in Berlin, said today in an interview.  Hanwha, whose purchase contract signed with Schorisch
yesterday will be reviewed by creditors, also plans to assume
850 million Malaysian ringgit ($273 million) in debt guaranteed
by Q-Cells  Malaysia , the group said.  Optimism Over Creditors  “We are optimistic that Q-Cells’ creditors would approve
our offer in an Aug. 29 meeting,” Seoul-based spokesman for the
Korean group, Park Jang Woo, said by phone today. He said that
Isofoton’s possible bid would not affect Hanwha’s attempt to
acquire Q-Cells. “It’s almost impossible for them to hold talks
with other bidders without breaching the agreement signed
yesterday.”  Buying Q-Cells would enable Hanwha to boost its capacity to
make solar cells and panels to rank the world’s third-largest,
it said. Hanwha aims to sign a final contract in early October,
the statement said.  Isofoton is especially interested in Q-Cells’ research
capabilities and its “European dimension,” von Hohenthal said.
It would invest 300 million euros in producing solar-cells and
keep production and research sites in Germany and Malaysia as
the company seeks to boost its production capacity to 1,500
megawatts in the coming two years, it said in the statement. It
would cut 10 percent of Q-Cells’ workforce of about 1,300, it
said.  Government Aid  German solar companies are facing reduced  government aid 
and increasing competition from Chinese companies that has
created a global glut of panels. Q-Cells and German competitors
 Solon SE (SOO1) ,  Solar Millennium AG (S2M)  and  Solarhybrid AG (SHL)  are among a
group of solar companies that filed for protection from
creditors in the past year.  Hanwha plans to hold on to about three quarters of the
workforce in Thalheim, Q-Cells said in a statement yesterday.
Christoph Moeller, a spokesman for Schorisch, declined to
comment further on the planned sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  