-- Apple Seeks Ban on Samsung’s Cellular Galaxy Tab Computer
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-27T18:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/apple-seeks-sales-ban-on-samsung-s-cellular-galaxy-tab-computer.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said a court should bar
U.S. sales of the cellular version of  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s
Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer even though the product wasn’t
covered by an Aug. 24 verdict in the patent trial between the
companies, according to a court filing.  Samsung, ordered by a federal court jury in  San Jose ,
 California , to pay Apple Inc. more than $1 billion for
infringing six mobile device patents, asked U.S. District Judge
Lucy Koh to lift a ban on the U.S. sales of the Galaxy 10.1 Tab
tablet. The company said that the ban should be dissolved
because the jury decided the Galaxy device didn’t infringe an
Apple design patent upon which the June 26 injunction was based,
Samsung said in a court filing yesterday.  Apple, in a court filing today, objected to the request,
and sought to extend the ban to a cellular version of Tab 10.1.  “While the cellular version of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 was not
included in the verdict form, it is not colorably different from
the products that the jury found to be infringing as to some
Apple utility patents, and thus should be covered by an
injunction against sales of products that infringe those
patents,” Apple said in the filing.  Samsung fell the most in almost four years in Seoul trading
today after the Aug. 24 decision by the San Jose jury. The
company said in June, when Cupertino, California-based Apple won
the ban on U.S. sales of the Galaxy tablet, that it wouldn’t
have a significant effect on its business.  The Suwon, South Korea-based company said in yesterday’s
filing that it’s entitled to recover damages caused by the
imposition of the improper ban on the sales of the tablet.
Samsung proposed that Koh rule on the request without a hearing.
Apple said in its filing it opposes that request.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.,
11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Blumberg at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net  