-- Apple Promotes Two For Cook’s Executive Team
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-27T21:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/apple-promotes-federighi-riccio-to-executive-team-as-senior-vps.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  promoted Craig Federighi
and Dan Riccio to senior vice presidents and named them to the
company’s executive management team, reporting to Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook .  Federighi, a frequent presenter at product events as vice
president of Mac software engineering, will remain responsible
for development of operating systems for Mac computers, Apple
said today in a statement. Riccio, who was named earlier this
year to be vice president of hardware engineering, leads teams
working on the company’s Mac, iPhone, iPad and iPod.  The changes mark Cook’s third round of promotions to
Apple’s executive team.  John Browett , the company’s head of
retail, joined in April, while Eddy Cue was promoted last year
to senior vice president of Internet software and services,
overseeing iTunes and Apple’s iCloud storage service. Cook’s
 executive team  now totals 12.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , also said that Bob Mansfield, who had announced his retirement in June, will remain
at Apple to work on future products.  Becoming a member of Apple’s executive team can be
lucrative. Last year, six members of the company’s executive
team were each awarded 150,000 restricted stock units that are
now worth $101.4 million based on today’s closing price. Cue was
given 200,000 stock units last year. Cook was given 1 million
stock grants by Apple’s board of directors after taking over as
CEO last year.  Apple, the world’s most valuable company, rose to a record
$675.68 in New York today after a California jury ruled in its
favor in a patent trial last week. The shares have risen 67
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jillian Ward at 
 jward56@bloomberg.net  