-- Arctic Ice Cap Melts to Record Low ‘Like a Giant Slushy’
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-08-27T21:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/arctic-ice-cap-melts-to-record-low-like-a-giant-slushy-.html
The  Arctic Ocean ’s ice cover has
plummeted to a record low, and with as many as three weeks left
in the annual melt season, may continue to shrink.  The area covered by ice declined to 4.10 million square
kilometers (1.58 million square miles), the average of five
consecutive days through yesterday, according to  data  compiled
by the  U.S. National Snow and Ice Data Center  in Boulder,
 Colorado . The previous low was 4.17 million square kilometers in
September 2007, based on satellite records dating to 1979.  The ice cap is shrinking at a record pace this year, one of
the most visible signs of  climate change , according to Walt Meier, a research scientist at the NSIDC. It shrank about 17
percent in the past 11 days. Ice coverage for the five days
ending Aug. 15 was 4.93 million square kilometers.  “We’ve lost over a million square kilometers in the last
few weeks,” Meier said today on a conference call. “I would
definitely bet we’d go below 4 million square kilometers in the
next few days and that’s never been seen before in our satellite
records.”  The average annual minimum area from 1979 to 2010 was 6.29
million square kilometers. Arctic temperatures from June through
mid-August were 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) to 3
degrees Celsius warmer than in a typical year.  “It used to be that the Arctic ice cover was a huge block
of ice -- it melted from the edges -- but now it’s more like
crushed ice,” he said. “Parts of the Arctic have become like a
giant slushy.”  Sea ice melts every summer and typically starts to freeze
again in September. The NSIDC uses five-day averages when
calculating measurements to account for day-to-day anomalies.
Oceans with less ice reflect less sunlight, exacerbating rising
temperatures.  “The ice cover gets more and more vulnerable to these
extreme conditions,” Meier said. “The Arctic has become like a
fighter with a glass jaw.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  