-- Are Jews Who Fear Iran Obsessed With the Holocaust?
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-08-27T22:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/are-jews-who-fear-iran-obsessed-with-the-holocaust-.html
Bringing up the subject of the
Holocaust at a dinner party can be a downer. Genocide is an
unpleasant and apparently insoluble problem, and, when Jews
raise it, they run the risk of seeming parochial, even
narcissistic.  Sophisticated, cosmopolitan people don’t want to be thought
of as “Holocaust-obsessed,” and applying the lessons of the
Holocaust to current events -- particularly those that have to
do with the special concerns of Jews, and not Kurds or Tutsis or
Tibetans -- is sometimes understood as a form of distasteful
special-pleading. “Holocaust-obsessed” is, in fact, a new
insult, one meant to sting and to bully into silence.  One person who is undeterred by the accusation is the
writer Ron Rosenbaum, who has just published the most important
essay I’ve read this year. Rosenbaum, the author of “ Explaining
Hitler ,” writes in Slate that “Holocaust-obsessed,” a term that
shows up with disquieting frequency in mainstream discussions of
Jews and  Israel , is meant to marginalize those who believe that
vanquishing genocide is the most urgent issue facing humanity,
and that the Holocaust holds specific lessons about the way in
which Jews should understand hateful rhetoric directed against
them.  Two Challenges  “If there were an algorithm for suffering perhaps we would
be able to judiciously appraise the claims that there are some
among us (mostly Jewish) who are ‘holocaust obsessed,’”
 Rosenbaum writes . “It’s the new fashionable meme for those who
don’t want to be overly troubled by the memory of the death
camps and looming threats of a second holocaust. The term
enables those who use it to suggest that those more concerned
than they are ‘obsessed’ in an unseemly way.”  Two challenges -- one philosophical, the other political --
confront those who argue that one can be too concerned about the
Holocaust and its meaning. Rosenbaum quotes the German novelist
W.G. Sebald, who said of the Holocaust, “no serious person
thinks of anything else,” by way of arguing that the mechanized
extermination of 6 million Jews crystallizes the most acute
problem confronting civilization: How do we combat the desire on
the part of some groups to exterminate other groups?  For Jews, the issue Rosenbaum raises is more immediately
concrete: Is it a sign of “Holocaust obsession” to be
preoccupied by the violent rhetoric directed by the leaders of
the Iranian regime against the 6 million Jews of Israel?  “Imagine: worry about extermination threats just because
Hitler made extermination threats which he carried out,”
Rosenbaum writes. “No reason to get all obsessed because another
anti-Semitic leader who is seeking nuclear weapons makes similar
threats, right? No reason to be troubled about the
exterminationist anti-Semitic rhetoric that pervades the
airwaves and the cyber realm of every other nation in the
region.”  Rosenbaum’s essay refocused my attention on the largest
issues raised by the Iranian regime’s apparent pursuit of
nuclear weapons and its ferocious Jew-hatred. It is possible to
lose the plot amid the welter of International Atomic Energy
Agency reports and artfully crafted Iranian denials and
intricate discussions of sanctions and endless news coverage of
the relationship between Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and U.S. President  Barack Obama .  An Asymmetry  But what is happening here is something virtually without
precedent in our allegedly enlightened age: A member-state of
the  United Nations ,  Iran , regularly threatens another member-
state, Israel, with annihilation. It’s important to bear in mind
a fundamental asymmetry: Israel doesn’t seek Iran’s elimination.
Iran seeks Israel’s.  Regime apologists will note that Iranian leaders talk about
the elimination not of “Israel” -- a word they generally refuse
to utter -- but of the “Zionist regime,” which, to the naive and
the cynical, implies the replacement of one government with
another. This is a pernicious euphemism. Without the “Zionist
regime” -- which is to say, the democratically elected
government of Israel, its armed forces and security services,
and the courts and structures of state -- the Jews who survived
the onslaught that “dismantled” their government would face
immediate dispossession, and perhaps much worse.  Rosenbaum, an expert on Hitlerian euphemism, told me that
one difference between Nazi rhetoric and that of the Iranian
regime is that the Iranians’ words are blunter, especially when
compared with pre-Kristallnacht Nazi language. Rosenbaum notes,
in particular, the Iranian reliance on epidemiological metaphor
when describing Israel: This year, the Iranian supreme leader,
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei ,  said Israel  is “a true cancer tumor on
this region that should be cut off.”  Which returns us to Rosenbaum’s central question: Is it
obsessive for a group of people who not long ago saw a third of
their number slaughtered to worry when the leaders of Iran call
Israel a cancerous tumor? Or is it the natural and appropriate
response of a people who, conditioned by history, choose to err
on the side of caution?  (Jeffrey Goldberg, a national correspondent for The
Atlantic, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on applying  Mitt Romney’s
business sense  to defense and on  Libor-rigging ;  Ramesh Ponnuru 
on why we shouldn’t forget about  Social Security’s problems ;
William Pesek on  South Korea’s presidential election ; Fouad
Ajami on  Obama’s callow cruelty on Syria  extending to Lebanon;
 Stephen Smith  on the inflated  cost of U.S. commuter trains .  To contact the author of this column:
 Jeffrey Goldberg  at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 