-- Hasbro Suffers Missed Gain as Stores Hold Back Avengers
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-08-27T19:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/hasbro-suffers-missed-gain-as-stores-hold-back-avengers.html
Kids looking to grab an  Iron Man  toy
after being wowed by the hit “Marvel’s The Avengers” have some
choices on store shelves, including leftovers from the 2010
movie “Iron Man 2.”  Stores, burned after years of slow-selling Hollywood toys,
held back on orders for “Avengers” products. With the film a
huge success, retailers, including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Toys
“R” Us Inc. (TOYS) , have been peddling old Thor hammers and  Captain
America  action figures at or close to full price.  The “Avengers” surprise illustrates the challenges
marketers face capitalizing even on hits.  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) , which
licenses the rights to make many Marvel-related toys from  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) , will generate about $150 million in sales from
“Avengers” merchandise this year, according to Gerrick Johnson, a New York-based analyst at BMO Capital Markets Inc.  Normally, a movie that makes more than $1 billion at the
box office would produce $250 million to $300 million in toy
sales, said Johnson, who has an underperform rating on shares of
the Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based company.  “Nobody thought the movie would be this big,” said  Isaac Larian , chief executive officer of toymaker MGA Entertainment
Inc., which doesn’t make “Avengers” products. “Retailers
didn’t buy deep and Hasbro didn’t push hard. Sales took off and
now they are catching up.”  Second-quarter sales of boys’ toys at Hasbro fell 16
percent to $389 million from a year earlier, as “strong
growth” in Marvel products failed to counter declines in other
brands, the company said. Analysts project the company will
register $4.27 billion in revenue this year, down slightly from
last year’s $4.29 billion, so $150 million in lost “Avengers”
sales translates into no growth this year.  No Growth  “‘Avengers’ is ahead of expectations and selling well,”
Wayne Charness, a Hasbro spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Retailers still have some inventory of ‘Iron Man 2’
and ‘Thor,’ but we are well-positioned to meet holiday demand
for ‘Avengers’ products.”  Last week, a Toys “R” Us store in central  Los Angeles  was
selling a mask with packaging emphasizing 2010’s “Iron Man 2”
film for $9.99. The same mask in an “Avengers” wrapper was
offered for $11.99 nearby.  The Wayne, New Jersey-based retailer has stocked its
shelves with older “Iron Man 2,” “Captain America: The First
Avenger” and “Thor” movie products for “an avid collector
base, as well as kids,” according to Bob Friedland, a
spokesman.  ‘Bullish’ Prospects  Hasbro rose 0.8 percent to $37.79 at 3:02 p.m. in  New York .
Through Aug. 24, the stock had gained 18 percent this year,
trailing the 28 percent advance of its larger competitor,  Mattel
Inc. (MAT)  In March 2011, Hasbro traded at a 37 percent  premium  to
Mattel, based on a multiple of earnings. Mattel, with a price-
earnings ratio of 15.7 now, is at a 13 percent premium to
Hasbro’s 13.9.  “The Avengers” has taken in almost $1.5 billion in
theaters worldwide since its May release, becoming the top-
grossing film this year and the third-highest of all time, after
“Avatar” and “Titanic,” according to Box Office Mojo, an
industry researcher.  “We continue to see strong consumer demand for ‘The
Avengers,’ which coupled with a rich content pipeline in the
coming years, makes us feel very bullish about the growth
prospects for this franchise,” Tasia Filippatos, a spokeswoman
for Disney, said in an e-mailed statement.  Robert Iger , chairman and chief executive officer of
Burbank, California-based Disney, said on a May conference call
that while orders for “Avengers” goods exceeded those of
“Captain America” and “Thor,” two Marvel films last year,
“the interest was not commensurate with what we’ve seen in
terms of the success of the movie.”  ‘Cars’ Comparison  Disney generates royalties on sales of movie-related
merchandise from licensees such as Hasbro. Revenue in Disney’s
consumer products division rose 8.3 percent to $742 million in
the quarter that ended June 30. A smaller percentage of the
unit’s sales came from movie-related merchandise than in the
year-earlier period, the company said.  “This is kind of a long-term proposition,” Iger said on
an Aug. 7 conference call. “‘Avengers’ is not as strong as
‘Cars,’ but until the DVD comes out and we get into the
Christmas season, it’s way too early to assess this.”  “Cars” ranks first in merchandise sales for Disney
movies, Iger said.  Spider-Man Toys  Lego Systems Inc. increased its production of “Avengers”-
themed construction toys in the weeks before the film’s release
based on media interest and customer surveys, according to
Michael McNally, a spokesman for the closely held Enfield,
Connecticut-based company.  “It’s pretty rare to do that and we’re very glad we did,”
McNally said.  Changes in toy preferences have made it harder to predict
sales, said Johnson, the BMO analyst. Sales of action figures in
the U.S. fell 7 percent to $1.3 billion last year, according to
NPD Group Inc., a market researcher based in  Port Washington ,
New York.  Hasbro’s own calculations likely had an impact. The company
also makes Spider-Man toys and had to weigh how they and
“Avengers” characters, such as Iron Man and the Incredible
Hulk, would fare against each other and in competition with
Batman products from “The Dark Knight Rises.” At a  Target
Corp. (TGT)  store in  West Hollywood ,  California , Spider-Man occupied
as much shelf space as Avengers.  “‘Avengers’ toys actually got off to a pretty good start
and slowed after Spidey and Batman hit shelves,” said  Sean McGowan , an analyst at Needham & Co. who recommends buying
Hasbro stock. “They were trying to maximize the overall pot.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  