-- Asian Stocks Drop as China’s Industrial Profit Declines
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-08-27T11:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/asian-stocks-advance-on-u-s-china-stimulus-speculation.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index heading for a three-week low, as a drop in
profit at Chinese industrial companies offset optimism policy
makers around world will move to boost growth.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) ,  China ’s biggest supplier of the metal,
slid 1.9 percent in  Hong Kong . Samsung Electronics Co. tumbled
by the most in almost four years in  Seoul  after a U.S. jury
ruled that the world’s No. 1 maker of smartphones infringed
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  patents. Olympus Corp., the world’s largest
manufacture of endoscopes, rose 4.4 percent in  Tokyo  after
agreeing to sell unit ITX Corp.’s telecommunications business
for 53 billion yen ($674 million).  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index dropped 0.4 percent to 119.81,
as of 8:03 p.m. in Tokyo, heading for its lowest close since
Aug. 7. Almost three shares fell for every two that rose in the
gauge. The measure climbed 10 percent from a June low through
Aug. 24 on bets the U.S., Europe and China will take action to
propel economic expansion. Investors are awaiting comments from
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  as U.S. policy makers
meet on Aug. 30 in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “The markets have priced in some kind of positive policy
action,”  Mark Matthews , Singapore-based head of research for
Asia at Bank Julius Baer & Co., which has about $286 billion in
client assets globally, said on Bloomberg Television in Hong
Kong. “In the absence of that, markets may go back down by
about 10 percent. China is probably the big problem in the
world, it’s slowing.”  Industrial Profit  China’s Shanghai Composite Index sank 1.7 percent. Profit
at Chinese industrial companies fell for a fourth month in July.
Income dropped 5.4 percent to 366.8 billion  yuan  ($58 billion)
last month from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said in a report on its website today.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 0.4 percent and
Taiwan’s  Taiex Index  slipped 0.1 percent. Japan’s  Nikkei 225
Stock Average (NKY)  gained 0.2 percent and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index slid 0.1 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 0.1 percent, having
fluctuated between gains and losses throughout the trading day.
The nation’s sovereign-debt rating was raised by Moody’s
Investors Service, which said the country’s export
competitiveness will help Asia’s fourth-largest economy rebound
as global growth recovers.  The Jakarta Composite Index was little changed. Almost a
third of the Indonesian bourse’s members failed to connect to
its trading platform, disrupting trading. The exchange’s board
is discussing today’s problem and will release a statement
later, Samsul Hidayat, a director at the bourse, said by phone.
The stock market normally closes at 4 p.m. local time.  Vietnam Bear Market  Vietnam’s VN Index plunged 3.4 percent amid concern the
arrest of two banking officials last week may signal further
instability in the nation’s financial system. Today’s losses
extended the gauge’s decline since the recent peak on May 8 to
more than 20 percent, which some investors regard as a  bear
market .  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3
percent today. The gauge last week snapped a six-week gain amid
concern European leaders may fail to tame the region’s debt
crisis.  Chinese biggest commodities suppliers declined as the drop
in industrial company profits in July added to evidence the
nation’s economic slowdown is deepening. Jiangxi Copper fell 1.9
percent to HK$18.18.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the nation’s
biggest producer of the light-weight metal, decreased 4 percent
to HK$3.14.  Biggest Decline  Information technology companies posted the biggest decline
among the  10 industry groups  in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Samsung Electronics, which has the heaviest weighting on
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, was the biggest drag on the
regional benchmark measure. The stock tumbled 7.5 percent, the
most since Oct. 24, 2008, to 1.18 million won in Seoul after a
U.S. court ordered the South Korean company to pay more than $1
billion for infringing Apple Inc.’s patents for mobile devices.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index earlier gained after China’s
Premier  Wen Jiabao  urged extra measures to support exports and
help meet economic targets as evidence mounts that the nation’s
slowdown is deepening. Adding to stimulus speculation, Bernanke
said in an Aug. 22 letter to  Darrell Issa , the chairman of the
Congressional Oversight and Government Reform Committee, that
the central bank has the ability to take additional steps to
boost the  U.S. economy .  Bernanke Speech  “Clearly the chances of further quantitative easing are
higher than they were six months ago,” said George Boubouras,
Melbourne-based head of investment strategy at UBS AG’s
Australian wealth management unit. “The market is looking to
Bernanke’s speech at Jackson Hole for additional guidance on
policy.” The Swiss bank has about $1.5 trillion in assets under
management.  China Airlines Ltd. (2610)  dropped 2.1 percent to NT$11.55 in
Taipei after the Taiwanese carrier reported a first-half net
loss of NT$1.04 billion ($35 million), compared with a loss of
NT$661 million a year earlier.  Of the 477 companies in the Asia-Pacific index that have
reported quarterly earnings since July 1, and for which
Bloomberg has estimates, more than half failed to meet
projections, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Citic Resources Holdings Ltd. sank 7.2 percent to HK$1.03
after the Chinese oil and coal producer posted a 42 percent
decline in first half profit to HK$228.1 million ($29.4 million)
from a year earlier.  Parkson Slumps  Parkson Retail Group Ltd., a mainland CHinese operator of
department stores, dropped 6.5 percent to HK$6.65. The company
reported first half earnings that missed estimates, prompting
Barclays Plc to cut its rating on the stock to underweight.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 6.7 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through Aug. 24. Stocks on Asia’s
benchmark index were  valued  at 12.6 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.7 for the S&P 500 and 11.6 for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Among stocks that advanced, Olympus jumped 4.4 percent to
1,562 yen in Tokyo. The company may book an exceptional gain of
about 16 billion yen from the sales of ITX’s telecommunications
business, according to estimates by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The
Japanese camera maker didn’t provide a figure for the one-time
gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  