-- Asmussen Says Bailout Funds Should Buy Bonds Before ECB Acts
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-08-27T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/asmussen-says-bailout-funds-should-buy-bonds-before-ecb-acts.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said the bank shouldn’t buy
 government bonds  on the secondary market before the region’s
rescue fund has started intervening on the primary market.  “In my opinion, the EFSF or the ESM should intervene on
the primary market upon the request of a particular country
before the ECB steps in,” Asmussen said in a speech in Hamburg
today. “But such an application is only a necessary condition
for ECB action. The ECB council will continue to decide in full
independence whether, when and how it will purchase bonds on the
secondary market.”  The comments suggest the ECB wants to see either the
European Financial Stability Facility or the permanent European
Stability Mechanism physically buying bonds before it makes any
purchases of its own. For that to happen, a country must
formally apply to the bailout fund for help and agree to
conditions set out in a Memorandum of Understanding.  “With this procedure, we can ensure that the respective
countries implement all necessary and agreed reform measures,”
Asmussen said. The ECB is still working on the details of its
bond plan and council members will discuss it at their next
meeting on Sept. 6, he said.  Strict Separation  ECB President  Mario Draghi  on Aug. 2 announced that the
central bank may resume bond purchases if distressed governments
ask for aid from the bailout funds. So far, neither Spain nor
 Italy  have made a request.  Asmussen said the ECB will strictly separate monetary
policy from its future role as a supra-national bank supervisor,
including staff. While the ECB needs to ensure the independence
of its monetary policy, it is open to stronger parliamentary
control when it comes to supervision, he said.  “The ECB must be equipped with all instruments needed to
effectively fulfill its banking supervisory tasks,” Asmussen
said. “That means access to all necessary information” and
“the right to close non-viable banks,” he said. “Without this
minimum set of tools, the ECB won’t take any responsibility; the
risk for the reputation of the institution would be too high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Hamburg at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  