-- ATP Says Players Aren’t Organizing Boycott of Australian Open
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-27T03:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/atp-says-players-aren-t-organizing-boycott-of-australian-open.html
The Association of Tennis
Professionals said it isn’t helping to organize a boycott of the
Australian Open as male players fight for a bigger percentage of
revenues at the Grand Slam tournaments.  The Sunday Times  reported  yesterday that there were rumors
the  ATP , which governs the men’s professional circuit, was
considering staging an alternative tournament to January’s
Australian Open in Dubai if early-round losers didn’t receive
more prize money.  “The ATP has been clear and repetitive in telling players
that it will not organize a boycott,” read an e-mailed
statement from the ATP. “Instead, ATP management and players
have taken a diplomatic approach this year with the Grand Slams
to address player compensation issues.”  The  French Open  and Wimbledon increased prize money this
year for the early rounds after lobbying from the ATP and its
players for a better distribution of revenue generated by the
four majors. The  U.S. Open  starts today in  New York , while the
Australian Open is yet to announce its prize money for the 2013
edition, which is scheduled for Jan. 14-27 in Melbourne.  This year, the season-opening major offered $A20,800
($21,600) to first-round losers. The French Open paid 18,000
euros ($22,500), while those exiting in the opening round at
Wimbledon in June were paid 14,500 pounds ($22,915), a 26
percent jump on the previous year. First-round losers at the
U.S. Open will get $23,000 with the men’s and women’s singles
champions picking up $1.9 million each.  ‘Unified and Passionate’  The  Ponte Vedra Beach , Florida-based ATP said it remains
focused on having “active dialogue” with the four Grand Slams
about player compensation for 2013 and beyond.   “The Grand Slams are important events that generate
significant revenues, and the players who perform there should
share in an acceptable percentage of those revenues,” the ATP’s
statement added. “The players remain unified and passionate
about this issue.”  Australian Open Tournament Director Craig Tiley said in a
June interview with  Bloomberg News  that tennis lags behind
sports including golf when it comes to player compensation.  “The issue is to make tennis a viable career for a player
ranked from 80 to 200 in the world,” Tiley said in June. “It’s
not right now. Depending on where you are from, you probably
have to be ranked 120th in the world in the men, and 100th in
the world in the women to break even. That’s just to break even.
In golf, it’s triple that.”  Tiley said today that Australian Open organizers are taking
the possibility of some players boycotting the tournament
seriously and will try to address their concerns.  “We’re confident that the players will be in  Melbourne  in
January and we’ll be working through in the coming months to put
forward some solution towards compensation,” Tiley said in an
Australian Broadcasting Corp radio interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  