-- Aussie Dollar Touches Month-Low on Global Growth Concerns
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-27T06:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/australian-dollar-rallies-amid-bets-fed-to-add-stimulus.html
Australia ’s dollar touched its
lowest level in a month, extending a two-week decline, as
concern global growth is waning curbed demand for higher-
yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie slid versus most of its 16 major
counterparts after a report showed profits for industrial
companies in  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner, fell
5.4 percent in July from a year earlier. Australia’s currency
and its New Zealand counterpart weakened before a report today
that may show German business confidence fell to a two-year low,
adding to signs Europe’s debt crisis is damping the region’s
prospects for growth.  “There’s only so far the Aussie can rally when concerns
for the global economy remain significant,” said Greg Gibbs, a
senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in  Singapore . “Those concerns have only been further fueled by
what’s been happening in China.”  Australia’s currency dropped 0.2 percent to $1.0383 as of
4:27 p.m. in Sydney after touching $1.0372, the lowest since
July 26. The Aussie fell 0.2 percent to $1.0403 in the five days
ended Aug. 24. It lost 0.1 percent to 81.74 yen.  The  New Zealand dollar , nicknamed the kiwi, declined 0.1
percent to 81.04 U.S. cents after rising 0.5 percent to 81.12
last week. It traded at 63.81 yen from 63.83.  Ten-year note yields in Australia dropped three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.21 percent. The rate on
15-year securities fell to as low as 3.47 percent, sliding below
the 3.5 percent overnight cash rate target for the first time
since Aug. 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Zealand’s swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, dropped two basis points to 2.70 percent.  Profits Drop  The decline in Chinese industrial profits last month was
the fourth straight drop, according to data released today from
the National Bureau of Statistics.  On an inspection of  Guangdong province , Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said difficulties in stabilizing the expansion are “still
relatively large” and called for measures to promote export
growth to help meet the country’s annual economic targets, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported Aug. 25.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
expects “long-term” price declines for its commodities as
slower economic expansion in China weighs on demand, Chief
Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said on the Australian
Broadcasting Corp.’s Inside Business program yesterday.  The Munich-based Ifo institute’s  business climate index  for
Germany probably slid to 102.7 in this month, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
today’s report. That would be the least since March 2010 and
compares with a reading of 103.3 in July.  Aussie Longs  Futures traders increased their bets that the Australian
dollar will rise against the greenback, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.
The difference in the number of wagers on a gain in the Aussie
compared with those on a drop was 86,882 on Aug. 21, up from so-
called net longs of 66,679 a week earlier.  The most recent figure was the highest since April 2011,
when net longs climbed to a record, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg going back to 1993.  Demand for Australian and New Zealand’s currencies was
supported after  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
“there is scope for further action by the Federal Reserve to
ease financial conditions and strengthen the recovery.”  Bernanke made the remarks in a letter dated Aug. 22 to
California Republican  Darrell Issa , the chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee. The note was in
response to an Aug. 1 letter from Issa asking questions about
monetary policy.  Jackson Hole  The U.S. central bank chairman will speak at the Kansas
City Fed’s annual economic symposium in  Jackson Hole  on Aug. 31.
Minutes of the Fed’s latest policy meeting released last week
showed officials remained supportive of a third round of asset
purchases under quantitative easing, or QE. Policy makers will
next meet on Sept. 12-13.  “The reason why the Aussie has been so well-supported is
precisely because the  U.S. dollar  has been weak on expectations
for the Fed to ease monetary policy,” said  Andrew Salter , a
strategist in Sydney at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  “It should underpin the Aussie dollar for a while, at the
very least up until Jackson Hole.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  