-- Bank Rossii Placing Inflation Hopes on WTO, Alfa Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-08-27T13:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/bank-rossii-placing-inflation-hopes-on-wto-alfa-says.html
Russia’s central bank assumed a
“risky” stance by counting on the country’s accession to the
 World Trade Organization  and the reduction of import tariffs to
hold  inflation  within the target range, according to  Alfa Bank .  “WTO entry, leading to a cut in  import duties  starting at
the end of August, appears to be the core reason for the central
bank’s optimism,” Natalia Orlova and Dmitry Dolgin, analysts in
Moscow for the country’s biggest private lender, said in a
research note today. “September price growth would need to
shift to deflation to confirm the WTO’s positive impact on the
inflation trend, which we see as unlikely.”  Bank Rossii is trying to deliver a second year of record-
low inflation by holding the rate at 5 percent to 6 percent
after capping price growth at 6.1 percent in 2011.  Russia  became
the 156th member of the Geneva-based trade arbiter on Aug. 22
after completing almost two decades of negotiations.  Policy makers have refrained from raising interest rates,
even as inflation started to accelerate in June because of
rising grain prices and increases to utilities tariffs in July.
The central bank is held “hostage” by the financial industry’s
exposure to its funding, according to Alfa.  “An active increase in central bank refinancing support in
June-July signals that bank funding is a higher priority than
inflation,” Orlova and Dolgin said. Its “active role in
funding the banking system is partly in conflict with its
approach of inflation targeting.”  Economy Minister Andrei Belousov’s forecast that inflation
will reach 7 percent is “confusing for the market and damaging
for the central bank’s inflation-target ambitions,” according
to Alfa. Policy makers are losing credibility by remaining
silent on the diverging estimates, Orlova and Dolgin said.  “Even if the central bank’s target is not met, we believe
the key is to communicate the reasons and a plan of action to
the market,” they said. “The next policy rate meeting offers
an ideal opportunity to signal the deterioration of the
inflationary trend even if the central bank would still prefer
to keep  interest rates  unchanged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  