-- Baoshan Steel’s Quarterly Profit Surges on Unit Sale to Parent
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-27T13:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/baoshan-steel-s-quarterly-profit-surges-on-unit-sale-to-parent.html
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) ,  China ’s
biggest publicly traded steelmaker, posted a four-fold increase
in the second-quarter profit after selling two unprofitable
units. Nine-month profit may rise more than 50 percent, it said.  Net income surged to 8.39 billion yuan ($1.32 billion) in
the quarter ended June 30 from 2 billion yuan a year earlier,
based on first-half earnings  reported  today in Shanghai.  Baoshan completed the sale of its stainless-steel and
specialty-steel units to its parent for 42.6 billion yuan on
April 1. The Shanghai-based company, which supplies half of
China’s automobile steel, is facing shrinking margins as the
 European debt crisis  and domestic property curbs sap steel
demand and prices.  “We aren’t optimistic about the outlook for the third
quarter as Baoshan has been cutting prices drastically,” Sarah
Wang, an analyst with  Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)  in Shanghai,
said before the earnings announcement. “Demand from end users
such as automakers, machinery and shipbuilders is stagnant.”  Operating profit at Baoshan declined 60 percent to 2.72
billion yuan in the first half from a year ago as weakening
steel demand weighed on prices, it said today. Baoshan reported
a pretax profit of 9.09 billion yuan by selling the units.  First-half profit rose 89 percent to 9.61 billion yuan from
a year ago, Baoshan said. The company had expected an 80 percent
to 100 percent increase in earnings, it said April 27.  Shares Drop  Baoshan declined 0.7 percent to close at 4.07 yuan today
before the earnings announcement, compared with a 1.7 percent
drop in the benchmark  Shanghai  Composite Index.  The stock  has
fallen 16 percent this year. Baoshan plans to spend as much as 5
billion yuan buying back shares at no more than five yuan
apiece, the company said today.  Chinese  steel mills , overwhelmed by increasing capacity and
sluggish demand, have struggled to remain profitable as prices
plunged to an almost three-year low this month.  Wuhan Iron &
Steel Co. (600005) ’s first-half profit plunged 89 percent to 135 million
yuan from a year ago, the company said yesterday, while  Maanshan
Iron & Steel (323)  Co. posted a wider-than-expected loss last week of
1.9 billion yuan for the first six months.  Angang Steel Co., China’s biggest Hong Kong-traded
steelmaker, today posted a net loss of 1.98 billion yuan in the
first half from a profit of 220 million yuan a year ago.  Quarterly Challenges  The Chinese  steel industry  will face challenges in the
fourth-quarter and the first-quarter next year without strong
economic stimulus, China Securities Journal reported Aug. 24,
citing Wang Xiaoqi, vice chairman of China Iron and Steel
Association. Baoshan has cut prices for major products,
including cold-rolled coils, used in cars and appliances, and
hot-rolled coils, used in cargo containers and buildings, for
three straight months starting July.  “There’s mounting pressure on the domestic economy” to
slow further, Baoshan said in the statement, “Steel prices are
unlikely to rebound in the third quarter.”  The company will carry out annual maintenance of its major
production lines in the second half, it said.  China’s passenger-vehicle sales gained 11 percent to 1.12
million units last month, lagging behind analyst estimates of
1.16 million units for the first time in five months, as demand
fell with the slowing economy and some consumers held back
purchases in anticipation of government stimulus measures.  The country’s manufacturing may be contracting at a faster
pace this month, signaling the need for more monetary and fiscal
stimulus. A preliminary reading of 47.8 for a purchasing
managers’ index released Aug. 23 by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics compares with July’s final 49.3 figure.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  