-- Bayer’s Xarelto Helped Survival After Heart Attack: Study
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-08-27T13:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/bayer-s-xarelto-helped-survival-after-heart-attack-study.html
Patients who took  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and
 Johnson & Johnson’s (JNJ)  Xarelto with blood-thinning treatment after
a severe heart attack had a better chance of surviving without
another attack or stroke compared with placebo, a study found.  The 7,817 patients studied had a more serious type of heart
attack that is typically caused by a blood clot completely
blocking the coronary artery, leading to damage and the death of
 heart muscle . The treatment period was 24 months.  Xarelto is approved in the U.S. to prevent venous clots in
patients undergoing knee and hip surgeries and to prevent stroke
in people with atrial fibrillation. It’s surprising that a
benefit in mortality could be seen in such a small group because
normally it wouldn’t be statistically significant, Frank Misselwitz, head of Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer’s
cardiovascular unit, said in a telephone interview.  “This is, if you wish, a paradigm shift and has the
potential to position rivaroxaban in a specific way, and not
just as a drug used on the venous side,” he said, referring to
Xarelto by its active ingredient.  Anticoagulants like Xarelto dissolve existing blood clots
while antiplatelet therapies prevent components of the blood
from clumping together and forming a clot.  Bleeding Concern  Prior to this study, patients who suffered a severe heart
attack known as ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, or
STEMI, weren’t given long-term treatment with anticoagulants
such as warfarin in combination with antiplatelet drugs like
Bayer’s Aspirin and Plavix from  Sanofi (SAN)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  That’s because of concern that that would cause a “massive
increase in bleeding,” Misselwitz said.  Today’s data, presented at the  European Cardiology
Conference  in Munich, shows a low dose of anticoagulant Xarelto
in combination with an antiplatelet can offer a benefit,
Misselwitz said. Patients who received 2.5 milligrams of Xarelto
twice a day saw the most benefit, though with more bleeding than
the placebo, Misselwitz said.  Patients who took a larger 5 milligram dose didn’t see the
same benefit and had a higher risk of bleeding as a side effect,
according to slides presented at the conference today. The
findings in that group weren’t statistically significant.  About one-third of the 300,000 patients who have acute
coronary syndrome in the U.S. every year suffer STEMI,
Misselwitz said. Bayer has included the data in dossiers that
governments consult when setting prices for the drug, which
competes with Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Pradaxa. Bayer still
expects Xarelto will have peak annual sales of 2 billion euros
($2.5 billion), Misselwitz said.  Today’s study was a subset of about half of patients with
acute coronary syndrome in a study known as Atlas, which looked
at rates of heart attack, stroke and death.  Traditional Therapy  “After heart attack, our traditional treatment is to keep
people on antiplatelet therapy,” Spencer King, former president
of the  American College of Cardiology  and professor emeritus of
 Emory University  in Atlanta, said in an interview today. “This
study seems to indicate that anticoagulants, though with
increased bleeding, somewhat decrease mortality.” King wasn’t
involved in the study.  Bayer and J&J of  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , await a ruling
from European regulators to expand the use of Xarelto to prevent
heart attacks and strokes in patients with serious chest pain or
a previous heart attack. The companies said June 22 they failed
to get approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for a
2.5 milligram dose of Xarelto in the same group of patients,
saying the agency had questions about their application.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  