-- Best Buy Agrees to Let Founder Schulze Conduct Due Diligence
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-08-27T20:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/best-buy-reaches-due-diligence-agreement-with-founder-schulze.html
     Aug. 27 (Bloomberg) -- Best Buy Co., the world’s largest
electronics retailer, and founder Richard Schulze reached an
agreement allowing him to conduct due diligence in his effort to
acquire the company a week after earlier talks failed.  Schulze can bring a fully financed, definitive proposal to
the company within 60 days, and if that offer is rejected, he
must wait until January to pursue an acquisition through other
means, the Richfield, Minnesota-based company said today in a
statement.  The agreement gives Schulze, 71, immediate access to
financial data that may help him line up private-equity firms he
needs to fund a takeover of the company he founded more than
four decades ago and left in June. Talks between Schulze and
Best Buy broke down on Aug. 19 and resumed two days later after
the company posted quarterly  earnings  that trailed analysts’
estimates, a person familiar with the matter said last week.  “With access to company records, he can perform the due
diligence that would be a condition of any potential private
equity partner,”  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities in  Los Angeles , said today in an e-mail. “He will
have difficulty raising an additional $1 to $2 billion in equity
from a partner, but without due diligence, his chances of
raising that much in equity on blind faith were zero.”  Pachter rates Best Buy underperform, equivalent of a sell,
and said Schulze has 20 percent to 30 percent odds of raising
equity backing.  Best Buy rose 3.2 percent to $17.87 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have declined 24 percent this year.  Offer Price  The stock is trading below Schulze’s Aug. 6 offer of as
much as $26 per share, signaling “a high degree of skepticism
in the market around the ability to reach a deal,”  Colin McGranahan , an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New
York, wrote today in a note. He rates the shares market perform,
equivalent of a hold.  The likelihood of the two sides reaching a deal “remains
complicated and still relatively implausible,” said McGranahan,
citing Schulze’s need to secure equity partners and the
possibility that directors may deem whatever offer Schulze
presents as too low.  The board also will offer Schulze, who holds about 20
percent of the  shares , control of two board seats, Best Buy
said. Schulze would lose those seats if he violates the
standstill provisions of the agreement, the company said. Best
Buy also agreed to waive a Minnesota takeover law that Schulze
said was limiting his ability to line up private-equity
investors and committed financing.  Amoeba Strategy  Reaching an agreement with Schulze may protect Best Buy
from possible litigation claiming directors impeded an offer
superior to a turnaround by newly hired Chief Executive Officer
Hubert Joly, said Louis Meyer, a New York-based special-
situations analyst for Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.  “If the company continues to have difficult sales and
earnings trends in the next few quarters, it is like the board
saying to Mr. Schulze, ‘Here are your two board seats; you’re in
the same boat with us now,’” Meyer said by telephone. “It’s
like an amoeba slowly surrounding an irritation with the goal of
eventually neutralizing it.”  Schulze has offered to take Best Buy private for as much as
$9.5 billion and said he would contribute at least $1 billion in
equity to the deal.  Earlier Negotiations  Earlier in the negotiations, Best Buy had asked for a fully
committed offer from Schulze within 60 days and stipulated that
it remain in place for several months, people familiar with the
matter have said. Schulze sought 90 days to obtain financing and
didn’t want to incur millions of dollars in fees for keeping
commitments together for an extended period, they said.  Schulze was willing to agree to a five-month lock-up with
no restrictions on his ability to replace the board if it
rejected his offer. Best Buy initially wanted an 18-month lock-
up and later modified that to 12 months, before reducing that to
four months with limits on Schulze’s ability to speak with Best
Buy’s  management  or replacing the board, one of the people said.  The agreement, which was reached yesterday, allows Schulze
to make a second offer to the board starting in January if the
first proposal is rejected. The board would have 30 days to
review the second bid before Schulze would have the opportunity
to take it directly to shareholders at the company’s annual
meeting or at a special meeting, Best Buy said.  Year Wait  If that offer fails, Schulze has agreed not to pursue an
acquisition until the agreement expires in a year.  The sides’ law firms, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP for
Best Buy and Shearman & Sterling LLP for Schulze, were in talks
before negotiations collapsed Aug. 19.  Along with the law firms,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is
negotiating for Best Buy and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  for Schulze,
said one of the people.  Best Buy on Aug. 20 named Joly as CEO to oversee a
turnaround plan that entails shifting to smaller locations in a
bid to fend off Amazon.com Inc. and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Joly,
CEO of Carlson Cos., a Minneapolis-based operator of hotels,
restaurants and a travel agency, will take over in September,
replacing interim CEO  Mike Mikan .  The next day, the company reported second-quarter profit
that trailed analysts’ estimates and suspended providing an
earnings forecast as sales of computers and televisions dropped.  Schulze has been recruiting executives and seeking the
support of private-equity firms since resigning after the board
found he failed to relay allegations that then-CEO  Brian Dunn 
was having an inappropriate relationship with a female employee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  