-- Bidvest Enters Chile in Growth Move as Earnings Increasd
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-08-27T11:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/bidvest-enters-chile-in-growth-move-as-earnings-increasd.html
Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT)  said it made an
acquisition in Chile to enter  South America  after earlier
purchases helped full-year sales and profit increase.  Earnings per share after one-time transactions rose 27
percent to 14.74 rand in the 12 months through June, beating the
13.57-rand median of 12 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue advanced 13 percent to 133.5 billion rand ($15.9
billion), Johannesburg-based Bidvest said in a statement today.  The company, which has interests from cleaning to car
sales, said earnings at its industrial-products division were
bolstered by the takeover of work-clothes manufacturer Alsafe.
It has also bought a 26.4 percent stake in South African
services company  Mvelaserve Ltd. (MVS)  Following the acquisition of
Deli Meals in  Chile , Bidvest will seek other opportunities in
South America, particularly in  Brazil , Finance Director David Cleasby said in an interview.  “Brazil lends itself to the kind of food business we do,”
Cleasby said by phone from Johannesburg. He declined to predict
when further deals may materialize, saying that “other
acquisitions in the region will come when they come.”  Bidvest increased its dividend 30 percent to 6.22 rand a
share and is making a special payout of 80 cents.  Growth Strategies  The company, which also owns  Seafood Holdings  in the U.K.,
said it will use innovation and acquisitions to accelerate
expansion in the Asia-Pacific region, where it has operations in
 New Zealand , Australia and China. Bidvest will otherwise focus
on expanding existing businesses in its main markets worldwide,
Cleasby said.  “Our management teams are well positioned to deal with the
current economic environment and will pursue organic growth
mainly,” Cleasby said.  Bidvest rose as much as 2.2 percent to 205.22 rand, the
biggest intraday gain since Aug. 1, and traded 1.9 percent
higher at 1:41 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Mvelaserve operates the  Total Facilities Management Co. ,
which provides services ranging from office cleaning through
engineering project management. Bidvest is Mvelaserve’s biggest
shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It certainly has businesses that fit our  profile 
perfectly,” Cleasby said. “Our intention with the company will
become clearer in the next while.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 sikonathim@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  