-- Biggest Lumber Profit Since ’06 Led by U.S.
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-08-27T21:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/biggest-lumber-profit-since-06-led-by-by-u-s-corporate-canada.html
West Fraser Timber Co. (WFT)  and  Western
Forest Products Inc. (WEF)  are leading Canadian lumber producers to
the biggest combined profit since 2006 as mills run at five-year
highs to feed a U.S. housing rebound and near-record Chinese
demand.  Lumber mills in British Columbia, Canada’s leading forestry
region, ran at 86 percent of production capacity in the five
months through May, compared with 82 percent for all of 2011,
according to the Western Wood Products Association. Lumber
futures rose to a 15-month high on Aug. 15 on the  Chicago 
Mercantile Exchange.  The industry is recovering from losses and mill closures
during the four-year U.S. housing bust amid resurgent new-home
sales and building activity south of the border. Some producers
are also capitalizing on orders from  China  for imported Canadian
lumber even as the Asian country’s economy slows.  “We’re extremely early on in the lumber cycle and it has
the potential to be a four-year run,” Paul Jannke, a lumber-
market analyst at Westford, Massachusetts-based Forest Economic
Advisors LLC, said in a telephone interview. He estimates the
industry in West Canada in 2012 will probably earn the most
since before the housing decline and that next year is looking
even better.  Shares of West Fraser, the largest North American maker of
softwood lumber used in  home construction , have  advanced  34
percent this year in Toronto while Western Forest has gained 32
percent. The S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite Index has
risen 0.8 percent.  West Fraser rose 0.5 percent to close at C$55.65 in Toronto
today. Western Forest rose 0.9 to C$1.11.  Spectacular Combination  “For lumber producers, it’s really the combination of
China and the U.S. that’s been so spectacular,” David Elstone,
an analyst at Gibsons, British Columbia-based research firm  ERA
Forest Products Research , said in a telephone interview. ERA
recommends holding West Fraser shares.  “We have market diversification that we’ve never seen
before, with the U.S. as the biggest, China in second, and we
still have  Japan ,” he said.  West Fraser’s British Columbia and Alberta mills operated
at full capacity in the second quarter, the company said on a
conference call last month. The Vancouver-based company’s
earnings before one-time items will more than double to C$59.8
million ($60.4 million) this year, according to the average of
four analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Profit will
advance to C$191.5 million next year, the highest since 2006,
according to the analysts.  Strandboard Demand  “We’re price takers and we run our business on cost
control,” West Fraser Chief Financial Officer Larry Hughes said
by telephone on Aug. 23. He declined to comment on the outlook
for earnings.  The company mostly harvests trees in British Columbia’s
interior. Western Forest, which operates in the province’s
coastal forests, will see its earnings climb 52 percent this
year and more than double in 2013 to the highest since at least
2004, according to  analysts .  Stronger U.S. demand for building materials is also helping
Toronto-based  Norbord Inc. (NBD)  and other makers of oriented
strandboard, a plywood substitute. Norbord, which has its
biggest operations in the southern U.S., has doubled this year
to C$16.21 this year in Toronto on higher prices for the
material.  Norbord executives weren’t immediately available for
comment.  Lumber futures rose 0.1 percent to $292.30 per 1,000 board
feet at 2:07 p.m. in Chicago. They traded at $309.50 on Aug. 13.
One board foot of wood is 1 inch thick and 1 foot square.  Pine Beetles  Oriented strandboard  rose  24 percent through July,
according to monthly price data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor.  While  U.S. housing starts  fell 1.1 percent in July versus
June, the number of building permits climbed to an annual rate
of 812,000 last month, the most since August 2008, according to
Commerce Department data.  That suggests residential construction activity in the
largest export market for Canadian lumber may extend gains in
the second half of the year. Historically low borrowing costs
are among reasons that demand for homes in the U.S. is
increasing.  About 36 percent of British Columbia lumber was exported to
the U.S. in the first six months of this year, according to
FEA’s Jannke.  Canada  ships higher-quality lumber to the U.S. for use in
new-home building and residential renovations, according to
Elstone. Much of the lumber destined for China is lower-quality
wood from trees killed by mountain pine beetles, he said. The
infestation in the interior of British Columbia is the world’s
worst. The affected lumber is used in residential construction
and for making concrete forms.  China Exports  Canadian lumber exports to China were about 1.2 billion
nominal board feet in the second quarter, the second-highest
quarterly tally on record, FEA’s Jannke said. By comparison, the
quarterly average in 2009 was about 400 million board feet.  Most of the Chinese imports are comprised of spruce, pine
and fir -- known in the industry as SPF -- that comes from
British Columbia, ERA data show.  “The Chinese consumer, they are essentially in love with
our SPF product,” ERA’s Elstone said.  Chinese demand for British Columbia lumber is showing signs
of easing, said Bryan Yu, Vancouver-based economist at  Central 1
Credit Union , a trade association for  credit unions  in British
Columbia and Ontario.  Pulp Demand  “China has really stepped up in recent years to support
our forest industry,” Yu said in a telephone interview. “We
are now seeing some cresting of lumber exports to both China and
the U.S.”  Canfor,  North America ’s second-largest soft-wood lumber
producer by production capacity, will have a loss of about C$14
million this year, according to the average of four analysts’
 estimates . That partly reflects expectations for the company’s
50 percent-owned  Canfor Pulp Products Inc. (CFX)  amid weak demand and
falling prices for pulp used to make paper tissue and printing
and writing paper, ERA’s Elstone said.  Next year will probably be better. The analysts surveyed
expect Canfor to swing to a profit C$72.7 million in 2013,
according to the average of their estimates. Canfor fell 0.4
percent to C$12.67 in Toronto. The shares have risen 19 percent
this year.  Patrick Elliott, a Canfor spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  “There are risks to the lumber recovery, such as the U.S.
election and the health of the global economy,” said ERA’s
Elstone. “But this is a cycle that looks like it’s turned for
the better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  