-- BMW to Nissan Pump Figures With Extra Sales to Dealers
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-08-27T02:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/bmw-to-nissan-pump-figures-with-extra-sales-to-dealers.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and
Nissan Motor Co. have turned to unconventional buyers of their
vehicles at times this year: their dealers.  BMW, locked in a U.S. luxury sales race with  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz, began offering dealers allowances of as much as
$7,000 a car on July 31 to boost sales to their demo fleets that
are used for test drives. Nissan, pushing to pass Honda Motor Co.
in U.S. market share, sells vehicles to dealers for use as
rentals, as it did in March at the fiscal year-end.  The actions by at least two of the world’s largest
automakers resemble the ways  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  used such practices to lead luxury and car segments in the
1990s. Dealers said BMW and Nissan’s moves also reflect
rivalries within carmakers’ operations, as U.S. sales units vie
for vehicles with retailers in  China  and other markets.  “This all comes from tremendous competition,” said
Geoffrey Pohanka, president of  Pohanka Automotive Group , which
owns Nissan and Mercedes dealerships in Maryland and  Virginia .
“It’s ultimately artificial. The key is to get the car into the
customer’s driveway, not to get it from one side of my lot to
the other.”  BMW introduced “Specialty Demo Allowance” deals late last
month by offering total payments ranging from $2,500 for some
2012 5-Series models to $7,000 for the 2012 7-Series, according
to a July 31 notice sent to dealers. The allowances, which also
were available for the 2012 3-Series, were kept in place this
month, according to an Aug. 14 e-mail to dealers.  Lead Narrowed  The incentives helped BMW narrow Mercedes’s lead in U.S.
sales to just 104 vehicle deliveries through July, according to
statements from the automakers. Munich-based BMW beat Mercedes
last year by 2,715 deliveries, snapping an 11-year reign by
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus  brand.  Mercedes’ U.S. sales rose 14 percent to 147,905 through the
first seven months of the year, while BMW’s increased 9.4
percent to 147,801. BMW trailed by more than 2,000 U.S. sales
entering the month of July. The figures exclude Stuttgart,
Germany-based Daimler’s Sprinter vans and Smart cars and BMW’s
Mini brand, which aren’t  luxury vehicles .  “Reporting vehicles being transferred from new vehicle
inventory to ‘demo inventory’ as ‘sales’ may look funny from the
outside, but in the context of global competition for product
and inventory balancing, it is a widespread practice,” said
Greg Goodwin, chief executive officer of Kuni Automotive, which
counts a BMW franchise among its 14 dealerships in  Washington ,
 California , Colorado and Oregon.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier about BMW’s demo
sales.  2012 Models  BMW’s incentives were aimed at selling down 2012 model-year
vehicles to make way for 2013 models, including the all-wheel
drive version of the 3-Series and new X1 compact sport-utility
vehicle, Kenn Sparks, a BMW spokesman, said August 24 in a
telephone interview.  “There was a real move to get as many of the model year
2012s off the lots as fast as possible,” he said.  The company also wanted to ensure it has enough demo
vehicles on dealer lots, because it saw a “surge of interest”
from its Olympic sponsorships, Sparks said.  China is among the markets contending with BMW’s U.S.
operation for allocation. BMW increased deliveries of its
namesake brand vehicles in that market by 30 percent to 147,600
in the first half, according to a July 9 statement. Mercedes
sales in China rose 11 percent to 105,200.  Nissan’s Fleet  Nissan asked its dealers to boost vehicle purchases from
the manufacturer to use in service fleets in March, according to
representatives of 25 Nissan franchises. Most of the dealers
asked not to be identified to avoid losing future allocation of
vehicles from Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan.  “It’s not correct that we had a program similar to
BMW’s,” Travis Parman, a spokesman for Nissan’s North American
unit in Franklin,  Tennessee , said in a phone interview. “We’ve
been doing a rental-car program. Some of the dealers have been
setting up their own rental operations, and vehicles have been
sold for that purpose. There weren’t any special incentives for
that.”  Parman said he didn’t know how many dealers have rental
operations or how many vehicles are sold into those fleets.  Dealers’ purchases helped Nissan increase U.S. sales by 13
percent to 136,317 in March, the last month of the company’s
fiscal year. Nissan reported that profit in its fiscal fourth
quarter more than doubled to  75.3 billion  yen, beating the 65
billion yen average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Rapid Payback  That selling pace was short-lived. Nissan deliveries
plunged the next month by 48 percent to 71,329, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  “If you report more cars than were sold, you’re going to
report less cars than were sold in some future period,” Pohanka
said in a telephone interview. “It’s going to catch up to you.
The advantage will be very fleeting.”  Carlos Ghosn , who leads both Nissan and alliance partner
Renault SA, is pushing the Japanese carmaker to outsell Honda in
the U.S. and eventually take 10 percent of the market, up from
8.2 percent last year.  Nissan edged Honda by 2,196 vehicle sales in the first
quarter. The maker of Altima sedans now trails its Tokyo-based
rival by 141,864 deliveries, as Honda rebounds from last year’s
tsunami in  Japan  that more severely crimped its production.  Light-vehicle sales in the U.S. climbed 14 percent to 8.43
million through July, according to Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-
based Autodata. The industry is headed toward a third straight
year of at least 10 percent gains, the first such streak since
1973.  ‘Dishonorable Performance’  Automakers generally have resorted to “dishonorable
performance” in the past during the final months of the year,
 George Pipas , a retired former Ford sales analyst, said in a
telephone interview.  To fend off Honda’s Accord for the title of the industry’s
best-selling car in 1994, Ford sold “an aircraft-carrier load”
of Taurus cars to daily rental fleets or at cheap lease rates in
December, Pipas said. The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker
reported 42,198 Taurus sales in December, 31 percent more than
the average monthly deliveries for the model in the year’s first
11 months.  “We had to hold some back because the numbers got so
obscene,” Pipas said. “It was embarrassing.”  In 1998, Ford’s Lincoln brand had a shot at outselling
Cadillac for the first time since World War II. Hopes were
dashed when GM said its luxury brand’s December sales rose 38
percent, boosting full-year deliveries to 187,343 and beating
Lincoln by 222 vehicles.  Dealers’ Pride  “We were disheartened,” Pipas said. “Lincoln never was
the sales leader before and hasn’t been since. Dealers take
pride in that sort of thing. It meant there was nothing to
celebrate.”  Months later, the truth came out: In May 1999, GM said it
overstated its Cadillac division’s sales for the previous
December by 4,773 vehicles and dropped its claim that the brand
outsold Lincoln. John F. Smith, then-general manager of Cadillac,
notified Ford’s Mark Hutchins, then-general manager of the
Lincoln-Mercury division, of the findings and apologized in a
letter.  “Back in the day, sales races generated a lot of less-
than-honorable programs to hype the numbers,” Pipas said.  While it would be difficult to quantify the value of being
the top seller in a segment, it does help appeal to customers,
said Ian Beavis, executive vice president of the global
automotive group at Nielsen Holdings NV and a former sales and
marketing executive at Ford,  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  and Mitsubishi
Motors Corp.  ‘Focus Groups’  “People in focus groups do say they justify purchases
because a vehicle is popular,” said Beavis, who was the head of
sales and marketing at Lincoln when Cadillac admitted inflating
numbers. “They like to belong to a successful group. It’s a
psychological issue, and it works in reverse, because people
will be suspicious of models that aren’t popular.”  Cadillac and Lincoln ceded leadership in annual U.S. luxury
auto sales to Lexus, the luxury brand of Toyota City, Japan-
based Toyota. Last year’s tsunami disrupted Lexus production,
giving BMW and Mercedes the chance to claim the No. 1 spot.  Mercedes said Jan. 9 that it held back final 2011 U.S.
sales results from December because it suspected BMW would
adjust its own number to be the top seller.  Lexus ‘Puzzled’  Lexus was “puzzled” by a discrepancy between BMW’s
reported sales in July and registrations tracked by Polk, a data
supplier that collects such information from state agencies,
 Mark Templin , U.S. head of Toyota’s luxury brand said in an Aug.
8 interview in  Palo Alto , California.  “This whole volume fight for No. 1, God bless them if
that’s what they want to fight for,” Templin said. “That’s a
difficult place for a luxury brand to be. If you’re fighting for
volume -- your stated No. 1 goal is volume -- I think a lot of
bad habits creep into the way you do business.”  The Polk data, which shows more Lexus vehicles than BMWs
were registered in May, does include models sold to dealers as
demonstration vehicles, said Tom Libby, an analyst at Polk. The
numbers often vary when vehicles that are sold late in one month
are registered in the next one, he said.  “Some manufacturers offer incentives for dealers to sell
units into dealer-rental service or loaner service or demo
service, and these may not be registered right away,” Libby
said in an e-mail. “Over time the sales and registration
results tend to approach one another. In the short term, though,
it is not that uncommon for there to be slight differences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  