-- Bunds Halt Three-Day Gain as Germany Agrees to Work With France
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-08-27T15:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/bunds-gain-after-weidmann-repeats-opposition-to-ecb-bond-buying.html
German  10-year bonds  halted a three-
day advance after Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
Germany and  France  will work together to help fix the crisis in
the  euro zone , damping demand for the safest assets.  Two-year German yields  climbed toward the highest level in
seven weeks after the country sold 1.975 billion euros ($2.48
billion) of 12-month bills. Spanish  10-year bonds  rose amid
speculation European leaders are making progress on containing
the debt crisis. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
may provide hints on future policy when he speaks at the  Federal
Reserve ’s annual symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , on Sept. 1.  “We are now awaiting some key decisions and the market
will be in a wait-and-see mode,” said Niels From, chief analyst
at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Copenhagen. “From a fundamental
perspective they do look expensive but the safety of bunds
remains appealing.”  The German 10-year yield was little changed at 1.36 percent
at 4:28 p.m. London time after dropping to 1.32 percent on Aug.
24, the lowest level since Aug. 3. The 1.75 percent bond due in
July 2022 traded at 103.61.  Germany’s two-year yield climbed one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to minus 0.002 percent, after rising to 0.02
on Aug. 22, the highest level since July 5. Yields below zero
mean investors who hold the debt to maturity will receive less
than they paid to buy them.  ‘Joint Decisions’  Germany’s Schaeuble, speaking after talks in Berlin with
his French counterpart,  Pierre Moscovici , said the two countries
will seek to advance cooperation on banking union, fiscal union
and the strengthening of monetary union in  Europe .  “We’re having to deal with a phase of weakening growth in
the global economy but also in Europe,” Schaeuble said to
reporters. “We want to take joint decisions” to counter that.  French President  Francois Hollande  will travel to  Madrid  on
Aug. 30 for talks with Spanish Minister  Mariano Rajoy ,
Hollande’s office said today. Rajoy has said he will host Merkel
in the Spanish capital on Sept. 6.  German two-year note yields stayed below zero as the
country sold securities due in 12 months.  Germany auctioned 1.975 billion euros of one-year bills at
an  average yield  of minus 0.0246 percent, the Bundesbank said.
That compares with minus 0.054 percent at a sale of similar-
maturity debt on July 23. The nation received bids for 3.86
billion euros of the securities, versus a maximum sales target
of 3 billion euros, the Bundesbank said.  French Sale  French two-year yields were little changed at 0.19 percent
as the country auctioned 7 billion euros of bills maturing
between 84 and 357 days. The 84-day securities were sold at a
yield of minus 0.013 percent.  Spanish  10-year bonds  rose for the first in four days, with
the yield falling four basis points to 6.38 percent.  The extra yield, or spread, that investors demand to hold
the securities instead of German bunds shrank four basis points
to 503 basis points.  Draghi said this month the ECB may intervene in the
secondary market to lower borrowing costs in countries that ask
for Europe’s bailout fund to purchase their securities.  German bonds are likely to decline if the ECB comes up with
a program that is convincing to investors, who may switch to
higher-yielding assets and push the 10-year yield to 1.75
percent by year-end, Nordea’s From said.  “There’s a huge amount of event risk in September and
against that backdrop, investors are still happy to keep some
money in core markets” even with negative yields, said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at broker RIA Capital
Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “There’s so much uncertainty, and
many hurdles for markets to overcome.”  Most Volatile  Volatility in Portuguese government debt was the highest in
the euro area today, followed by Ireland, according to measures
of 10-year bonds, the spread between two- and 10-year
securities, and credit default swaps.  The yield on Portugal’s 4.375 percent security maturing in
June 2014 increased 19 basis points to 4.89 percent. The rate on
Ireland’s 4 percent note due in January 2014 fell four basis
points to 2.50 percent.  Finland is preparing to sell a 10-year bond denominated in
euros according to a person familiar with the offering who asked
not to be named because the terms weren’t set.  German bonds returned 3.8 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities fell 2.5
percent, and Italy’s gained 11 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  