-- Cameco to Acquire BHP Uranium Project for $430 Million
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-08-27T20:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/cameco-to-buy-bhp-uranium-project-for-430-million-correct-.html
Cameco Corp. (CCO) , the world’s third-
largest uranium miner, agreed to buy  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s
Yeelirrie uranium project for $430 million to expand in
 Australia .  “Yeelirrie represents an attractive deposit that fits well
with Cameco’s vision and corporate strategy,” Tim Gitzel, chief
executive officer of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Cameco, said
in a statement yesterday.  Cameco is buying resources at Yeelirrie for the equivalent
of about $3.20 per pound of uranium, or 6.5 percent of the
current uranium spot price, Rob Chang, a Toronto-based analyst
at Versant Partners, said today in a note. That compares with a
9 percent average for uranium industry transactions since 2007,
he said.  This is “understandable” given the deposit’s lower grade
relative to recent higher-grade transactions, Chang said.  Cameco is aiming to increase its annual uranium output to
40 million pounds by 2018 by developing new mines and extending
the life of existing ones. The company forecast production of
21.7 million for this year.  Cameco had 23 projects in Australia, including 22 operated
by the company, according to its  website . Among Cameco’s
holdings is the Kintyre project in Western Australia acquired
through a joint venture with Mitsubishi Development Pty in 2008.  Olympic Dam  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, this month
announced it will delay an expansion at its Olympic Dam in  South
Australia  in favor of a less capital-intensive development plan.
The expansion would have made Olympic Dam into the world’s
largest uranium mine.  The acquisition is Cameco’s  third  since Gitzel, who is a
former executive of  France ’s  Areva SA (AREVA) , became the Canadian
company’s CEO in July 2011.  Cameco agreed in May to buy uranium trader Nukem Energy
GmbH for 105 million euros ($131.2 million) after acquiring
Areva’s minority stake in a uranium project in Saskatchewan for
C$150 million ($151.4 million). Cameco terminated an offer last
year to buy Hathor Exploration Ltd. after being outbid by Rio
Tinto Group.  Cameco  fell  1 percent to C$22.23 at the close in Toronto.
The shares have increased 21 percent this year.  Cameco expects the acquisition of Yeelirrie in  Western
Australia  to close by the end of the year. Yeelirrie has
measured and indicated mineral resources of about 139 million
pounds of uranium, with an average grade of about 0.13 percent,
Cameco said in the statement.  Cameco was the third-largest uranium miner last year after
Kazatomprom,  Kazakhstan ’s state-owned producer, and Paris-based
Areva, according to the  World Nuclear Association . Uranium is
the raw material in nuclear-reactor fuel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  