-- Chalco Drops as ADRs Slide to Three-Week Low: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-08-27T21:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/chalco-s-drop-pushes-adrs-toward-three-week-low-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  fell for a third day
in  New York , led by state-owned companies, after industrial
firms’ profits declined at a faster pace in July.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slid 0.8 percent to a three-week
low of 89.02 yesterday. State-controlled  Aluminum Corp. of
China , known as Chalco, sank the most in two months while China
Life Insurance Co. plunged to a one-month low before reporting
first-half results that may show net income declined. Online
games operator Perfect World Co. dropped for a fifth day while
SouFun Holdings Ltd. retreated.  Chinese industrial companies’ profits fell 5.4 percent in
July from a year earlier to 366.8 billion yuan ($57.7 billion),
the statistics bureau said on its website yesterday, compared
with a 1.7 percent decline in June. China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao 
urged extra measures to support exports and help meet economic
targets during an inspection tour of  Guangdong province , the
official Xinhua News Agency reported Aug. 25.  “Investors were looking for a recovery in earnings to take
place in the second half, but they’re pushing that out one
quarter or even two,” Colin Bell, director of Global Emerging
Market Equities at Auerbach Grayson Co., said in a phone
interview in New York. “There’s more uncertainty about the
timing for a cyclical recovery, so expectations for a slight
rebound in equities have been put off.”  China ETF Retreats  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slumped 1.5 percent to $33.51,
extending its decline to a ninth day, the longest losing stretch
since May. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of the biggest U.S.
shares was little changed at 1,410.44 as investors awaited
indications on whether the  Federal Reserve  will provide further
stimulus measures.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  won’t use his Aug. 31 speech
at the Fed’s annual symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , to
suggest a third round of bond buying is at hand, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  American depositary receipts of Chalco, China’s largest
aluminum producer, slumped 4 percent to $9.95, the steepest loss
since June 25. The ADRs, each representing 25 underlying shares
in the company, were 1.7 percent  below  its  Hong Kong  stock. The
ADRs have traded at discounts to Hong Kong since Aug. 10.  The company reported on Aug. 24 a net loss of 3.25 billion
yuan in the first half, compared with a profit of 412.6 million
yuan a year ago and the average estimate of a 1.6 billion  yuan 
loss by four analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The company also
forecast a loss for the first three quarters this year.  China Life Slumps  Of the five analysts who updated their Chalco ratings after
its earnings, three  reiterated  recommendations to sell the stock
while two maintained hold, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ADRs of China Life, the nation’s biggest insurer by market
value, tumbled 4.2 percent in its fifth day of declines to
$39.47, the lowest level since July 12.  The Beijing-based insurer, due to release earnings today
for the six months ended June 30, may say  net income  fell 12
percent from a year earlier to 11.4 billion yuan, according to
the average estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
China Life’s insurance premium income in the first seven months
fell to 203.3 billion yuan from 215.3 billion yuan for the same
period of 2011, it said in a regulatory filing Aug. 14.  Perfect World Sinks  Perfect World, China’s fourth-biggest online games
operator, tumbled 4.4 percent to $10.52, the biggest decline in
three weeks.  The Beijing-based company reported after U.S. markets
closed that net income fell 50 percent in the second quarter
from a year ago to 158.2 million yuan, below the  mean estimate 
of 162.4 million yuan of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , owner of China’s biggest real estate
information website, retreated 5 percent to a three-week low of
$13.06.  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ) , a property agency based in
Shanghai, dipped 0.6 percent to $4.76.  China’s housing market will continue to be a drag on the
economy, Derrick Irwin, who helps manage $2.5 billion in the
Wells Fargo Advantage  Emerging Markets  Equity Fund, said in an
interview from  Boston  yesterday. “There are enough distortions
in the Chinese economy at this stage that it’s making it
difficult for the government’s stimulus policy to work,” he
said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 1.7 percent yesterday to
2,055.71, the lowest level since February 2009. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies lost 1.3 percent to
a four-week low of 9,544.62.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  