-- Chile Peso Outstrips Colombian Currency Weakened by Central Bank
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-08-27T16:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/chile-peso-outstrips-colombian-currency-weakened-by-central-bank.html
Chile ’s peso climbed to its
strongest this year relative to Colombia’s currency after policy
makers in Bogota lowered  interest rates  and expanded the central
bank’s dollar buying program.  The Chilean peso strengthened 0.4 percent to 3.7884
Colombian pesos as of 11:21 a.m. in Santiago, on course for its
highest closing level since Dec. 8. Chile’s currency gained 0.1
percent to 480.67 per  U.S. dollar .  Chile’s peso is outperforming Latin American peers as
faster-than-forecast  economic growth  leads traders to forecast
the central bank will leave benchmark borrowing costs unchanged
until next year. Two rate cuts at Colombia’s central bank and
pledges by monetary officials and the government to buy dollars
have stemmed gains this year in that country’s peso, which was
the world’s best performer versus the dollar in the first half
of 2012.  “The additional intervention wasn’t a big deal but they
have shown that they have options,” said Flavia Cattan- Naslausky, a currency strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Chile has been doing very well despite
everything. Macroeconomic growth has been strong and, unlike
 Colombia  and  Brazil , the Chileans aren’t rushing to cut rates.”  Colombia reduced borrowing costs for a second straight
month on Aug. 24 after inflation slowed to the target rate,
while also announcing that the central bank will buy $700
million by the end of September to curb gains in the peso.  Rate Outlook  In Chile, the median forecast of 51 traders and investors
surveyed by the central bank for an Aug. 22 report was that the
bank would leave rates unchanged at 5 percent through December.
On Aug. 20, the bank announced gross domestic product grew 5.5
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, faster than
economists had forecast.  Chilean domestic demand may grow 6.7 percent this year as
the stronger currency cheapens imports, economist Javier Salinas
at Larrain Vial SA wrote today in a note to clients. Larrain
Vial raised its growth forecast for this year to 5.3 percent
from 5 percent.  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
increased their short peso position to a three-week high of $8.9
billion on Aug. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  