-- Chinese Industrial Companies’ Profits Drop by Most This Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-27T03:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/china-july-industrial-profits-fall-5-4-after-1-7-drop-in-june.html
Chinese industrial companies’
profits fell in July by the most this year, a government report
showed today, adding to evidence the nation’s economic slowdown
is deepening.  Income dropped 5.4 percent last month from a year earlier
to 366.8 billion  yuan  ($57.7 billion), the fourth straight
decline,  National Bureau of Statistics  data today showed. That
compares with a 1.7 percent slide in June and a 5.3 percent drop
in May.  Today’s data add pressure on the government to step up
policy easing to reverse a slowdown that may extend into a
seventh quarter. On an inspection of  Guangdong province  from Aug.
24 to 25, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said difficulties in stabilizing
the expansion are “still relatively large” and called for
measures to promote export growth to help meet the country’s
annual economic targets, the Xinhua News Agency reported.  “The economy is slowing faster than what had previously
been expected,” said  Patrick Bennett , a strategist at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce in  Hong Kong . The profit outlook is
for “further weakness throughout the year,” he said.  Industrial companies’ profits in the first seven months of
the year declined 2.7 percent to 2.7 trillion yuan, according to
today’s statement. That compares with a 2.2 percent drop in the
first half and a 28.3 percent gain in the same period in 2011.  Stocks Decline  China ’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks
dropped 1 percent at 10:19 a.m., extending a decline after
falling last week to the lowest level in more than three years.  State-owned companies’ profits declined 12.2 percent in the
first seven months from a year earlier, while foreign-funded
companies’ earnings dropped 12.6 percent, today’s report showed.
Private industrial companies’ profits increased 15.5 percent.  Among 41 industries, 25 reported year-over-year profit
growth in the first seven months and 15 recorded declines, while
one group -- oil refining, coking and nuclear-fuel processing --
swung to a loss from a profit, the statistics bureau said.  The government will probably lower banks’ reserve
requirements and boost infrastructure investment and consumption
incentives, among other steps, said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior
economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.  “Today’s profit data and Wen’s weekend comments should be
supportive for  market sentiment  as they suggest that the
situation is bad enough for policy makers to take more action to
support the economy,” Kowalczyk said.  Growth Pace  Gross domestic product  expanded 7.6 percent last quarter,
the slowest pace in three years, as  Europe ’s debt crisis hurt
exports and Wen’s campaign to cool consumer and property prices
damped domestic demand. Bank of America Corp. estimates a
further slide to 7.4 percent in the three months through
September.  Bank of America and Deutsche Bank AG this month reduced
their forecasts for full-year economic expansion to 7.7 percent,
which would be the slowest pace since 1999. Wen in March set a
target of 7.5 percent.  Company profits are declining amid falling prices, higher
costs and slower demand.  Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. (2208) , China’s second-
biggest maker of  wind turbines , said last week that first-half
profit slumped 83 percent as competition intensified and market
growth slowed.  Manufacturing Gauge  A preliminary reading of a manufacturing purchasing
managers’ index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics on Aug. 23 showed the lowest reading since November.
Export growth almost stalled in July and new yuan loans and
industrial production both trailed estimates.  China cut  interest rates  in June for the first time in
three years, and again in July. The central bank has also
lowered the reserve-requirement ratio for lenders three times
starting in November to support growth. The ruling Communist
Party last month pledged to keep adjusting policies to ensure
stable economic expansion this year.  Industrial companies’ revenue in the first seven months
increased 10.6 percent to 50 trillion yuan, today’s report
showed.  “A big problem at present is the weak investment from the
corporate sector, and China has to do more to encourage
corporate investment,”  Li Daokui , a former central bank adviser,
said in an interview last week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  