-- China Refiners to Cast Abroad as Price Curbs Hit Profit: Energy
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-08-27T16:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/china-refiners-to-cast-abroad-as-price-curbs-hit-profit-energy.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,
 Asia ’s largest refiner, and rival  PetroChina Co. (857)  are poised to
seek assets overseas to diversify as domestic earnings are
depressed by state-controlled prices for processed fuels.  Refining losses resulted in China Petroleum, known as
Sinopec, reporting a 41 percent decline in first-half net income
to 24.5 billion yuan ($3.9 billion) yesterday. PetroChina, the
nation’s biggest oil and gas producer, last week said first-half
profit declined 6 percent to 62 billion yuan.  Chinese refiners, which sell gasoline and diesel below cost
because the government caps retail prices to contain inflation,
aren’t waiting for the controls to be relaxed. PetroChina said
it plans to generate more than half its oil and gas output from
overseas projects by 2020 to offset refining losses, while  China 
Petrochemical Corp., Sinopec’s state-owned parent, said it would
more than double its foreign production by 2015.  “Every dollar spent on domestic refining projects would be
a waste of a dollar, since it generates absolutely no return,”
said Simon Powell, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian oil and gas
research at CLSA Ltd. “Overseas acquisition is a short cut to
balance refining losses, but it’s a gradual process and takes a
long time because of political scrutiny and availability of
assets globally.”  China’s state oil companies have spent more than $100
billion on assets over the past decade to supply the world’s
largest energy importer.  Sinopec lost 9.3 percent in  Hong Kong  trading this year
through today, while PetroChina fell 1.8 percent. They’re the
second- and third-biggest members of the  MSCI Far East Energy
Index (MXMF0EN) , which also fell 1.8 percent in the period. The Bloomberg
World Oil & Gas index, whose largest member is Exxon Mobil
Corp., dropped 1.3 percent.  Sinopec climbed 3.4 percent to HK$7.41 today and PetroChina
slipped 1.6 percent to HK$9.50 in Hong Kong.  Cnooc Deal  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil and natural gas
maker with no refining operations, has proposed the nation’s
biggest overseas acquisition, offering $15.1 billion for
 Canada ’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  Canadian and U.S. regulators are reviewing
the takeover.  “If the Cnooc deal is approved, we can expect more Chinese
energy investment in those countries almost right away,” said
CLSA’s Powell.  Sinopec lost 18.5 billion yuan after processing 811 million
barrels of oil in the first half compared with PetroChina’s loss
of 23.3 billion yuan from refining 489.7 million barrels.  “The loss came purely from the government’s policy of
capping retail fuel prices,” said Laban Yu, head of Asia oil &
gas equity research at Jefferies Hong Kong Ltd. “There is not
much Sinopec can do. We believe current low inflation will allow
higher refiner margins in the second half and quite possibly a
change in the fuel-pricing mechanism.”  Price Controls  Gasoline and diesel prices are set by the National
Development and Reform Commission, China’s economic planner,
under a system that tracks the 22-day moving average of a basket
of crudes, including Brent, Dubai and  Indonesia ’s Cinta. The
cycle may be shortened to 10 days, China Petrochemical said
March 28.  NDRC has indicated it may relax price controls on natural
gas and fuels in the second half, PetroChina President Zhou Jiping said at a post-earnings briefing on Aug. 23.  The fuel pricing reform may not materialize in the second
half, especially after the government has made and missed
similar commitments in the past, said Shi Yan, a Shanghai-based
energy analyst at Uob-Kay Hian Ltd.  “I believe both Sinopec and PetroChina understand the
situation well and both of them are determined to expand in
upstream quickly with or without the pricing reform being
finally implemented,” she said.  Overseas Targets  PetroChina wants half its oil and gas output to come from
overseas by the end of the decade, Chairman Jiang Jiemin said in
March. Production abroad rose 0.9 percent to the equivalent of
62.5 million barrels, accounting for 9.4 percent of the
company’s output in the first half.  Chinese companies can sell oil and gas from overseas assets
at market prices.  President Zhou said in Hong Kong on Aug. 23 the explorer is
looking closely at assets in Central Asia, east  Africa ,
Australia and Canada. Zhou said he’s “completely confident” of
achieving the 2020 goal.  China Petrochemical, Sinopec’s parent, seeks to produce 50
million metric tons of crude a year overseas by 2015. Last year,
foreign production was 22.9 million tons. Sinopec said it
boosted first-half crude output 4.3 percent to 163.09 million
barrels and overseas production jumped 82 percent to 11.13
million barrels.  Opportunities vs. Risks  Sinopec has been looking at many energy projects globally
and from a strategic point of view Sinopec needs to buy up
assets to balance its refining losses, Sinopec Chairman Fu Chengyu told a press conference in Hong Kong today.  “But I wouldn’t prefer the word ’eager’ to describe our
attitude in overseas acquisition, because eagerness usually
leads to risks,” Fu said.  There are many acquisition opportunities because of
sluggish global economy, “but opportunities come with risks and
we have to be careful not to buy assets because they look
cheap,” Fu said. “We buy assets only because they can bring
long-term value to our shareholders.”  Shale Assets  Sinopec has held talks with Oklahoma-based  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK)  and others about investing in shale assets,
Chairman Fu said after the company’s annual shareholder meeting
in May.  “We’ve always been talking to and cooperating with U.S.
and Canadian companies on unconventional and shale gas and
oil,” said Fu, who became chairman in April 2011. “Not just
Chesapeake.”  Fu has already announced at least $12 billion in deals at
Sinopec and its parent since he was appointed, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That includes a $1.5 billion agreement for a 49
percent stake in  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) ’s U.K. unit on July 23 and
the acquisition of a 30 percent stake in  Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP) ’s
Brazilian unit in November.  Cnooc cut the  interim dividend  by 40 percent to 15 Hong
Kong cents a share on Aug. 21 in order to fund its acquisition
of Nexen, a Calgary-based company that operates in the U.S.
portion of the  Gulf of Mexico , and other potential overseas
deals and future production growth. Cnooc posted a 19 percent
profit decline after a spill closed its largest offshore
oilfield, Penglai 19-3, in China’s Bohai Bay.  Regulatory Approvals  The Nexen acquisition needs approval from regulators in
Canada, and the U.S., where the Committee on Foreign Investment
in the  United States  examines whether foreign purchases of U.S.
assets raise security risks.  Nexen’s oil and gas assets include production platforms in
the  North Sea , the Gulf of Mexico and  Nigeria , as well as oil-
sands reserves at Long Lake,  Alberta , where it already produces
crude in a joint venture with Cnooc.  Sinopec and PetroChina would probably wait until the
outcome of the Nexen regulatory screenings before announcing new
deals, said Uob-Kay’s Shi.  “They certainly want to push the tempo but they also
understand acquisition is a game of patience and timing,” Shi
said. “Takeovers are only going to happen over a long period of
time, not something that can be achieved in days or months.”  PetroChina will spend at least “over 10 billion  yuan ” in
developing unconventional natural gas in the next couple of
years, President Zhou said last week in Hong Kong.  Sinopec is one of the two winners of China’s first shale
gas parcel auction last June and plans to accelerate the
exploration of the fuel by teaming up with domestic and
international shale gas explorers, Chairman Fu said in March.  In the second half, Sinopec will “step up efforts in
exploration and development of unconventional resources,”
including building production capacity in the Fuling continental
shale gas project and preparing for coal-bed-methane production
in the southern part of Yanchuan, it said in a statement to Hong
Kong’s stock exchange yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  