-- China Southern Air Tumbles After Profit Slump: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-08-28T03:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/china-southern-profit-slumps-84-on-slower-travel-fuel-prices.html
China Southern Airlines Co. (1055) ,  Asia ’s
biggest carrier by passenger numbers, slumped the most in more
than two months in Hong Kong trading after reporting a larger-
than-expected 85 percent drop in first-half profit.  The airline,  China ’s biggest on domestic routes, fell as
much as 6.1 percent, the biggest decline since June 8. It was
down 5.3 percent at HK$3.41 as of 10:29 a.m.  Air China Ltd. (753) ,
which is due to report earnings later today, and China Eastern
Airlines Corp. both dropped about 2 percent.  China Southern’s net income fell to 424 million yuan ($67
million), under international accounting standards, because of
an economic slowdown sapping  travel demand  and higher fuel
costs. The Guangzhou-based carrier also posted a currency-
exchange loss, compared with a year-earlier gain, after the  yuan 
weakened against the dollar for the first half-year decline
since 2009.  “Business travel demand in China was dragged by the
economic slowdown, which was worse than expected,” said Li Lei,
a Beijing-based analyst at China Securities Co. “The carrier’s
plans to add more overseas flights will be good in the long
term, but may pressure profitability in the short term.”  The airline, China’s only operator of  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A380s, has
also suffered from only flying the superjumbos on domestic
routes, he said. The planes will be introduced on the carrier’s
Guangzhou-Los Angeles route in October, ending a yearlong wait
caused by regulatory delays.  Higher Sales  The carrier’s sales rose 13 percent to 47 billion yuan,
according to a  filing  to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday.
The carrier was expected to report a first-half profit of 570
million yuan based on the median of three analyst estimates
compiled by  Bloomberg News . Under domestic accounting standards,
first-half profit slumped 84 percent to 449 million yuan. The
airline didn’t propose to pay an interim dividend.  The airline booked a net exchange loss of 314 million yuan,
compared with a 1.24 billion yuan gain a year earlier. The
Chinese currency weakened 0.95 percent against the dollar in the
first six months, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. Chinese carriers benefit from a stronger yuan as it
pares the repatriated value of dollar-denominated debts used to
buy planes and fuel overseas.  It is “hard” to see material gains in the yuan happening
against the dollar again, the airline said. “Looking into the
second half of 2012, the international economic situation will
be more complicated with weak growth of the global economy.”  Empty Seats  The carrier’s load factor, or the percentage of seats
filled, dropped 1.1 percentage points to 79.5 percent as
expansion outpaced demand. Passenger yields, a measure of
average airfare, increased 3 percent in the first half from a
year earlier. The carrier flew 41.2 million passengers during
the period, 7.2 percent more than a year earlier.  Fuel costs rose 27 percent to 18.5 billion yuan on higher
fuel prices and greater consumption. Average domestic fuel
prices in China were about 15 percent higher in the first six
months than a year earlier, Li said. Kerosene prices averaged
$127.14 a barrel in Singapore trading in the period, compared
with $125.91 a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company said in July that it expected first-half net
income to slump more than 50 percent. It is due to receive the
nation’s first  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 later this year. It had a fleet of
468 planes as at the end of June.  China Southern has unveiled plans to challenge  Singapore
Airlines Ltd (SIA)  and Emirates on Australia-Europe routes using its
hub in  Guangzhou . It started flights to  London  in June, building
on existing services to Paris and Amsterdam. Australian services
are due to climb to as many as 110 a week by 2015 from 42.  “Their aggressive capacity expansion and pricing strategy
mean that yields should remain under pressure,” said Credit
Suisse analysts Davin Wu and Timothy Ross in a note to clients
today. “We expect the poor outlook on yields and the company’s
inability to operate their five A380s profitably should continue
to impact its earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  