-- Christie’s Biggest Fight May Be Weight as Job Strains Willpower
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-08-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/christie-s-biggest-fight-may-be-weight-as-job-strains-willpower.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
has won concessions from the state’s public-employee unions.
He’s stopped the Democratic-controlled Legislature from raising
taxes. He’s put hecklers in their place.  The first-term Republican has yet to win one of his biggest
battles: shedding weight.  Christie, who turns 50 on Sept. 6 and will give the keynote
speech at this week's  Republican National Convention , told
 Oprah Winfrey  in January that he was working with a dietitian
and exercising four days a week. Since that interview, he shows
no signs of slimming down.  “He’s gotten a bit heavier,” said  John Catsimatidis , the
billionaire supermarket tycoon who has raised tens of thousands
of dollars for Christie.  About a year after spurning a run for president -- and
being hospitalized for asthma that he said was aggravated by his
size -- Christie will take on a political role that in 2004 set
 Barack Obama  on a path to the White House. Should the governor 
seek higher office, his weight may be an obstacle, said Russell
Riley, chairman of the Miller Center’s Presidential Oral History
Program at the  University of Virginia .  Fitness Junkies  Christie contrasts with presidents, vice presidents and
White House candidates who have sought to convey an image of
health and fitness in a nation where two-thirds of the
population are overweight.  Obama plays basketball and Vice President  Joe Biden  works
out regularly. Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican
presidential candidate, uses an elliptical machine, and his
running mate  Paul Ryan  follows the grueling P90x fitness
routine. Former President  George W. Bush , who nicknamed Christie
“Big Boy,” ran the 1993 Houston Marathon in 3 hours, 44
minutes.  “We live in a media age in which there are these
conventional expectations of what a successful individual looks
like,” Riley said in an Aug. 21 interview from Charlottesville.
“The closer you comport with those kind of cultural ideas about
how someone on television looks, the better you do.”  As Christie’s national profile grows, his weight has become
fodder for late-night comedians and social media users. It also
was addressed by “his personal advisers,” said Catsimatidis,
63, who wouldn’t specify further.  “Remember: I have the same problem,” said Catsimatidis,
who is 5 feet, 11 inches tall and weighs 275 pounds.  30-Year Struggle  The governor, who is the same height, declined to be
interviewed or to answer questions about his weight. Photographs
and video taken when he was a U.S. prosecutor five years ago and
this week show that he has become larger.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for the governor, declined to
comment on whether Christie is following any weight-loss
regimen, saying the matter is personal.  During a radio interview last year, the governor said that
he doesn’t like talking about his weight because “you’re
setting yourself up for failure.” His most candid discussions
of the topic were during nationally televised interviews with
Winfrey and  CNN ’s Piers Morgan.  “I don’t like being overweight,” Christie told Winfrey.
“I know I’d be healthier and better off if I weren’t.”  Christie has said his struggle with weight began 30 years
ago when he stopped playing organized school sports. During a
February 2011 radio interview, the married father of four said
he was trying to lose weight “so I can watch my two daughters
get married, so that I can see grandchildren when I get older.”  Asthma Attack  In July 2011, Christie’s shortness of breath related to
chronic asthma forced a detour to a hospital emergency room on
the way to a news conference. When he was released after eight
hours, he faced a barrage of questions from the national media
about his health. He said his weight “exacerbates everything,”
and that he was working with a personal trainer.  “I’m sure it frustrates the heck out of him” that he
hasn’t been able to slim down, Katherine Tallmadge, a dietitian
and weight-loss counselor who has worked with members of
Congress and White House staffers, said in an Aug. 9 telephone
interview. “These really successful people, it drives them
crazy -- there’s one thing they haven’t been able to overcome.”  Ed Rendell , the Pennsylvania Democrat whose taste for a
high-calorie Philadelphia specialty sandwich earned him the
nickname “Governor Cheesesteak,” said the job comes with long
hours and exercise-disrupting travel.  Free Food  “There’s all this free food, and food that gets passed
right in front of you,” said Rendell, 68. When he reached 260
pounds (118 kilograms) his son Jesse suggested that he get
healthy. He said he lost 60 pounds mostly by reducing portions.  “Is it harder for politicians who live that type of
schedule than the ordinary person to lose weight? Yes,” he
said. “Is it an excuse and a justification if they want to?
No.”  Bill Clinton , the 66-year-old former president, was once a
fan of fast food. After he underwent quadruple cardiac bypass
surgery in 2004 and had two stents placed in a clogged artery in
2010, he adopted a vegan diet.  Former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee , who ran for
president in 2008, lost 110 pounds through diet and exercise
after being diagnosed with diabetes. He went on to complete
marathons and champion wellness programs, including taking junk
food out of schools.  ‘Fat Rear End’  Christie has shown a willingness to joke at his own
expense, exaggerating to radio host Don Imus that he weighed 550
pounds and referring to “my big, fat rear end.”  It was a strategy once used by U.S. Representative Gary Ackerman, a  New York  Democrat who has maintained a weight loss
of more than 100 pounds since the 1990s.  “It bothers you until it makes your feelings numb -- you
just block it out,” Ackerman said by phone Aug. 14. He said he
admires Christie for exposing himself “to greater observation
and more criticism than people in other fields would get, and
put up with it.”  Christie told Winfrey that the weight issue hurt him more
when he was younger and that he has “developed a bit of a
shell” about it in public life. His official website includes
the line “ David Letterman  Fat Jokes -- 327,832” in a post that
also tallies bills signed and letters received.  The first Republican elected New Jersey governor since
1997, Christie became a national political figure for raising
public employee contributions to pensions and benefits, vetoing
tax increases against millionaires and leveling insults at
critics during “Jersey-style” confrontations.  Jersey Shore  In July, gossip website TMZ.com showed video of him
shouting at a detractor who used profanity as Christie was
buying an ice cream cone on the Seaside Heights boardwalk with
his kids and their friends. Letterman, who has made Christie the
topic of monologues and “Top 10” lists, set the confrontation
to “fat guy music” and said that angering Christie is like
“crossing a rhino.”  “My kids think it’s incredibly cool that, like, David Letterman even knows who I am,” Christie said during a January
press conference. “I don’t really let it bother me all that
much if at all.”  Christie has campaigned across the nation for Romney and
other Republican candidates. More than half of all registered
voters in his home state, where Democrats outnumber Republicans,
approve of the job he is doing as governor.  ‘More Human’  The focus on Christie’s weight “is an asset,”  Mark
McKinnon , an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  during
his 2008 run for president, said in an e-mail.  “Voters today find so little they can believe, they put a
real premium on anything they perceive as authentic,” McKinnon
said. “Governor Christie’s weight just makes him more human,
more real, and, therefore, more credible.”  Christie’s weight doesn’t slow him, said his friend state
Senator Joe Kyrillos, a Republican from Middletown. The governor
has “enormous energy and discipline,” said Kyrillos, who was
chairman of Christie’s 2009 gubernatorial campaign and is
running for  U.S. Senate .  “He runs circles around almost everyone else I know, me
included,” Kyrillos said. “That’s the way he produces so much
and that’s why he’s so successful.”  As Christie returns to the national spotlight, the
questions -- and jokes -- about his weight will only intensify,
said  Jennifer Duffy , a senior editor of the nonpartisan Cook
Political Report in Washington.  “If you put somebody in a position of great responsibility
then their health is always going to be the subject of some
concern and curiosity,” Duffy said. “If they weren’t talking
about weight they’d be talking about his sometimes over-the-top
way of speaking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  