-- Cigarettes, Money Market Funds, Basel Rule: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-08-27T11:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/cigarettes-money-market-funds-basel-rule-compliance.html
Tobacco companies defeated a U.S.
law forcing cigarette packaging and advertisements to display
images such as diseased lungs, persuading a federal appeals
court that the requirements violate their free speech rights.  In a 2-1 decision, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington
on Aug. 24 ruled that Food and Drug Administration regulations
mandating visual-image warnings of smoking’s health risks, along
with the telephone number 1-800-QUIT-NOW, are “unabashed
attempts to evoke emotion” and “browbeat consumers” to stop
buying the companies’ products.  “These inflammatory images and the provocatively named
hotline cannot rationally be viewed as pure attempts to convey
information to consumers,” U.S. Circuit Judge  Janice Rogers
Brown  wrote in her majority opinion.  Commonwealth Brands Inc., Liggett Group LLC and Santa Fe
Natural Tobacco Co. sued the FDA last year, claiming the
mandates for cigarette packages, cartons and advertising, passed
as part of the Family Smoking Prevention and Control Act,
violated the First Amendment.  The companies said in court papers that complying with the
requirements would cost them a total of about $20 million. The
mandate, scheduled to go into effect next month, was put on hold
by a lower-court judge while the appeals court considered its
legality.  The government argued in court papers that nine images
selected by the agency to be placed on packages and
advertisements are true depictions required by Congress in the
 law  to show the negative health consequences of smoking.  The graphics were supposed to cover the top half of the
front and back of cigarette packages and 20 percent of print
advertisements. The FDA estimated the visual warnings would help
lower the smoking rate by about 0.212 percentage points,
according to the lower court judge who also ruled against the
FDA.  Jennifer Haliski, an FDA spokeswoman, said the agency
doesn’t comment “on possible, pending or ongoing litigation.”  The Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, an anti-smoking group,
urged the government to appeal the ruling, noting that a federal
appeals court Cincinnati upheld the packaging requirements in
March.  “The split decisions make it likely the U.S. Supreme Court
will settle the issue,” the group said in an e-mailed
statement.  In a dissent, U.S. Circuit Judge  Judith Rogers  said Brown’s
opinion applied the wrong level of First Amendment scrutiny and
disregarded the tobacco companies’ history of deceptive
advertising.  Noel Francisco, a lawyer for  R.J. Reynolds , a unit of
 Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , argued that “the purpose of the
warnings is not to inform, but to scare consumers into adopting
the government’s course of action.” He said during the February
hearing that the government was using “threats and fear” to
motivate people to stop using a lawful product.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 11-5332, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia (Washington).  Compliance Policy  Money Funds Test Geithner, Bernanke as Schapiro Defeated  Money-market mutual funds, an alternative to bank accounts
for individuals and companies, will test the resolve of the U.S.
 Federal Reserve  and Treasury Department to prevent another
financial crisis after the $2.6 trillion industry successfully
lobbied against more regulation by the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  has said the central bank could
tighten rules on banks’ borrowing from money-market funds, and
Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  has said officials have the
option to force banks to back their money funds with capital.
The Fed and the Treasury could also work through the Financial
Stability Oversight Council, a new regulatory panel formed under
the Dodd-Frank Act, to seize oversight of money funds from the
SEC and grant that power to the Fed.  “There’s real unanimity in the bank regulatory arena about
the need to do something about money-market funds,” Karen Shaw
Petrou, managing partner of Washington-based Federal Financial
Analytics Inc., said in an interview. “What the Fed can do, and
I think will try to, is put the funds back in a much more
limited corner, by isolating them from integration with the
banking sector.”  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  last week abandoned a four-year
effort to adopt tougher rules for money funds as three fellow
commissioners said they wouldn’t support her proposal. The
announcement marks a victory for the fund industry, which had
lobbied against the plan.  Former SEC Chairman  Arthur Levitt  called the decision by
three commissioners to block Schapiro’s proposal a “national
disgrace” and said the Obama administration should pursue the
issue through the Financial Stability Oversight Council, or
FSOC, the panel Congress charged under Dodd-Frank with
monitoring the country’s financial threats.  “This is an important time for the President to weigh in”
and for the Fed and Treasury to make “changes in how the system
works,” Levitt said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  For more, click here.  EU Lawmakers to Resume Basel Bank Rule Talks on Sept. 5  European Union lawmakers and government officials will
resume talks on Sept. 5 over how to apply Basel  bank  capital
rules amid calls from lenders to delay implementing the
measures, said  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the European
Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee.  Cyprus, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, and
members of the EU assembly are seeking a deal on the draft law
ahead of an international deadline of January 2013.  Banks have urged a delay in applying the rules, saying the
ongoing talks mean that they will have insufficient time to
adapt their systems and internal procedures.  “We’re obviously going to have to have discussion about
it,” Bowles said in an interview. “I’m not unsympathetic, I
recognize the practicalities.”  Negotiators will begin a series of meetings on the
legislation on Sept. 5, Bowles said.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which brings
together regulators from 27 nations including the U.S., U.K. and
China, agreed in 2010 that the measures should be phased
starting Jan. 1, 2013, with full implementation from 2019.  Compliance Action  Deutsche Bank Unit Sued by FHFA Over Mortgage Securities  A  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  unit was sued by the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, which seeks the repurchase of loans backing
mortgage securities.  DB Structured Products Inc. breached promises about loans
that were pooled and securitized and failed to repurchase them
as required, the FHFA said in a filing Aug. 24 in  New York  State
Supreme Court in Manhattan.  The FHFA oversees mortgage-finance companies Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac. The agency didn’t disclose in its court filing the
size of the investment at issue in the case. The securities were
issued by ACE Securities Corp. Home Equity Loan Trust, Series
2006-FM1.  Deutsche Bank will fight the lawsuit,  Renee Calabro , a
spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based bank, said.  “Deutsche Bank has acted appropriately in response to
legitimate repurchase demands,” Calabro said in an e-mailed
statement. “These suits are based on brazen factual assumptions
and unsupported legal theories.”  The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. DB Structured
Products Inc., 652978-2012, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Scan Health Settles U.S. Medi-Cal Probe for $324 Million  A California health-care group will pay about $324 million
to settle state claims that it received excess payments from
Medicare and Medi-Cal, the state’s medical program for the poor.  The settlement with SCAN, a Los Angeles-based health
maintenance organization comprising SCAN Health Plan, Senior
Care Action Network and Scan Group, is the largest Medi-Cal
recovery in the state’s history, California Attorney General
 Kamala Harris  said Aug. 23 in an e-mailed statement. SCAN
provides health care in Southern California to the elderly and
disabled.  The settlement resolves California’s claims that SCAN
failed to provide required financial information to the
California Department of Health Care Services, preventing the
agency from revising payment rates for the group.  “We played no role in how the state set rates for the
population at issue, and we were previously unaware of the
mistake the state made,” SCAN Chief Executive Officer Chris Wing said in an e-mailed statement. “Once we learned that the
state made errors, we decided to refund all the money mistakenly
paid.”  Because of the overpayments, Californians lost millions of
dollars “that should have been going toward the health care of
our most vulnerable citizens,” Harris said in her statement.
The U.S. Justice Department also announced the settlement.  The U.S. will receive $3.82 million for the Medicare
portion of the settlement, according to the statement. For the
Medi-Cal portion, $319.9 million will be split between the
federal government and California, with the U.S. receiving
$129.4 million and the state $190.5 million, Harris said.  The case is U.S. v. Scan Health Plan, 09-05013, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of California ( Los Angeles ).  In the Courts  Omnicare Agrees to Settle False Claims Case Over Kickback  Omnicare Inc. (OCR) , a supplier of drugs to nursing homes, agreed
to settle a lawsuit claiming it paid a kickback in buying a
pharmacy company, and that it submitted false claims for
reimbursement to government health insurers.  Lawyers told a federal judge in Chicago Aug. 23 that they
reached a “settlement in principle” to resolve a 2007 lawsuit
by whistle-blower Maureen Nehls, a court docket entry shows. The
terms, if final, weren’t entered into the docket. U.S. District
Judge John J. Tharp Jr. set a hearing for Sept. 25.  Nehls claims Omnicare’s $25 million purchase of Total
Pharmacy Services LLC in 2004 included a kickback to one of its
owners, Philip Esformes, and his father, Morris. That payment
helped Omnicare win contracts with nursing homes owned or
controlled by Morris Esformes and gave the company thousands of
elderly and disabled customers, according to the complaint.  “Omnicare capitalized on the illegal kickback arrangement
at the heart of Total Pharmacy’s operations,” Nehls attorney
Matthew Organ said in a March 21 filing. “As Total Pharmacy
held no assets, aside from a small inventory, virtually all of
the $25 million that Omnicare ultimately paid to purchase Total
Pharmacy amounted to a kickback” for long-term contracts.  Omnicare, based in Covington, Kentucky, has denied
wrongdoing in court papers. Ed Loyd, an Omnicare spokesman,
declined to comment in an e-mail.  David Chizewer, an attorney for Nehls, also declined to
comment on the settlement. He said that Nehls, who once worked
at Total Pharmacy, is now pursuing a nursing degree.  The settlement doesn’t include the Esformes, Philip’s
lawyer, Michael Pasano of Miami, said. The father and son have
rejected Nehls’ offers to resolve the case, he said.  “Philip Esformes understands that Omnicare made a business
judgment to reach a settlement in this case,” Pasano said in an
e-mail. “That settlement in no way speaks to Mr. Esformes’
position, and Mr. Esformes continues to emphatically emphasize
he has done nothing wrong and is in no way liable in this
matter.”  Last year, U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve, who had
overseen the case, denied Philip Esformes’ request to dismiss
Nehls’s fifth amended complaint. He filed an answer denying
wrongdoing.  “Omnicare’s purchase of Total Pharmacy Services LLC was
the result of an arm’s-length negotiation,” his lawyers said in
that April 2011 filing. “Omnicare paid the reasonable market
value for Total Pharmacy Services LLP and therefore, no kickback
was paid and no violation of federal and state anti-kickback
laws can be alleged in connection with the purchase.”  In a separate filing, Morris Esformes also substantially
denied the allegations against him.  One of his attorneys, Harvey Tettlebaum of Husch Blackwell
LLP, declined to comment on the Omnicare settlement, saying he’d
not seen the settlement documents.  Tettlebaum said his client “continues to insist that he’s
done nothing wrong,” and that a motion seeking judgment in
favor of the elder Esformes would soon be filed with the court.  The case is United States of America v. Omnicare Inc., 07-
cv-5777, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC Deputy Inspector General Leaves Office Amid Investigation  Noelle Maloney, who was second in command of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s troubled internal watchdog
office, has left the agency.  Maloney served as the SEC’s deputy inspector general since
2008, a period in which the office produced landmark
investigations including probes of the agency’s failure to catch
the  Bernard Madoff  and R. Allen Stanford frauds. Her last day at
the agency was Aug. 17, SEC spokesman  Kevin Callahan  said on
Aug. 24.  The office has been in turmoil since March after an
employee complained to the SEC that possible conflicts of
interest involving former inspector general H.  David Kotz  could
have tainted the integrity of certain reports the agency
produced.  David Williams , the U.S. Postal Service’s inspector
general, is conducting an investigation into the allegations.  Following the January departure of Kotz, who has denied any
wrongdoing, Maloney served as interim inspector general until
the agency named Jon Rymer, inspector general for the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., to temporarily take over the office.  Attempts to find contact information for Maloney weren’t
successful.  Interviews  Feds May Play Future Role in Student Loans, Chopra Says  Federal agencies intervened in the student-loan market
during the financial crisis and could play a future role, said
the  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s  student-loan
ombudsman.  “Regulators and agencies and the Fed may have a role to
play to ensure that the market is working well and is liquid and
that risk really reflects a price appropriately,” Rohit Chopra
said in an interview for Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg EDU with
Jane Williams” program.  “Certain low-risk borrowers probably don’t need to be
paying such high rates and paying those high rates is leading
them to delay a lot of economic milestones, which have really
large consequences and ripple effects for the entire economy,
including the housing market,” Chopra said.  Outstanding student-loan debt is about $1 trillion. About
15 percent comes from private loans made by banks and other
lenders, and the rest is federally backed, according to the
agency.  The Federal Reserve Board of Governors exercised its
authority to establish the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan
Facility, which facilitated the issuance of a wide range of such
securities, including those backed by student loans.  “During the financial crisis, we had seen the Fed try and
ensure that capital markets were functioning and used certain
authorities to make sure that asset-backed securities, whose
underlying assets were private student loans, were able to be
made,” Chopra said in the interview. “It seems that there are
some places where the market is not working. You have a lot of
responsible borrowers paying very high interest for several
years now, but they’re unable to refinance that debt.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  