-- Colombia Central Bank’s Monetary Policy Rate Statement (Text)
-- B y   D o m i n i c   C a r e y
-- 2012-08-27T14:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/colombia-central-bank-s-monetary-policy-rate-statement-text-.html
Following is the text from
 Colombia ’s  Central Bank  statement on the benchmark interest
rate decision. The translation to English was provided by the
Central Bank on its website.  Banco de la Republica (the Central Bank of Colombia) lowers by 25
basis points its intervention interest rate  At its meeting today, the Board of Directors of Banco de la
Republica, the Central Bank of Colombia, lowered its intervention
interest rate by 25 basis points. In this manner, the  base rate  for
expansion auctions will be 4.75%. This decision was based on the
following factors taken into account:  Results for the second quarter confirm the weakening of world
growth. The Eurozone GDP fell as compared with the level observed
in the first quarter, and economic growth in the  United States  and
some emerging countries in  Asia  was slightly weaker. International
financial markets are still volatile, and confidence continues to
be affected by risks originating in  Europe .  The latest foreign trade and industry figures at world level do
also suggest the increasing transmission of European problems into
the rest of the economies. This heightens the likelihood of an even
weaker world growth in the future.  The international prices for some basic agricultural products have
risen as a result of droughts in producing countries. Likewise, the
oil price rose after having experienced a reduction in the second
quarter of the year.  In Colombia, the value of commodity exports of mining origin
continued to slow down; its annual growth of 0.7% can be explained
by lower international prices. In turn, agricultural exports as
well as those of the other sectors, particularly in the industry,
fell 21.4% and 3.8% respectively in annual terms.  Although industry and commerce figures in June were slightly better
than expected, growth was low. In the same month, the Fedesarrollo
industry survey reflected deterioration again in confidence and
order volume, as well as an increase in stock.  Consumer confidence 
rose slightly in July and is standing above the average observed in
2011.  Credit growth is still slowing down, thus reducing the risk of
financial imbalances.  The recent moderation has been concentrated in household credit,
which continues to grow at high rates.  Real  interest rates  are at
levels close to the average observed since 2000, and the interbank
interest rate is standing above the intervention interest rate.  The observed and expected inflation in December 2012 fell at rates
close to 3%. Core inflation measures remained relatively stable,
and the average of the four indicators calculated by the Bank stood
at 3%.  All term inflation expectations declined, while those deriving from
the 2, 3, and 5-year Treasury Bonds - TES - stood around 2.4%.  According to the assessment of the current balance of risks, the
Board of Directors deemed that reducing the intervention interest
rate is appropriate. The new information will allow for introducing
future monetary policy actions concerning both the development of
events in the advanced countries and their impact on confidence,
global demand and international prices of basic goods, as from
internal dynamics.  In addition, in order to provide more the economy with more
permanent liquidity, the Board has decided that, in the remainder
of August and in September it will by US$700 million through the
daily auction mechanism with minimum price of US$ 20 million.  The Board restates that Banco de la Republica has both the proper
tools and sufficient resources to meet local and foreign currency
liquidity needs regularly required by the economy as well as those
likely to occur in an environment of international financial
turmoil.  The Board will continue to keep close watch on the international
situation as well as on the behavior and projections of inflation,
growth, and the asset markets, while reiterating that the monetary
policy will depend upon the new information available.
Bogotá, August 24 2012  SOURCE: Banco de la Republica
 http://www.banrep.gov.co/   To contact the reporter on this story:
Dominic Carey in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dcarey5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  