-- Colombia Peso Approaches 12-Week Low as Dollar Purchases Boosted
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-08-27T18:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/colombia-peso-approaches-12-week-low-as-dollar-purchases-boosted.html
Colombia ’s peso fell toward a 12-
week low after the central bank said it will step up dollar
purchases to $700 million by the end of September to stem the
local currency’s gains.  The peso depreciated 0.5 percent to 1,823.17 per  U.S.
dollar  in Bogota after touching 1,831.60 on Aug. 16, the weakest
level since June 1. It pared this year’s rally to 6.3 percent,
still the best performance after the Hungarian forint and
Chilean peso among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The increase announced Aug. 24 boosts central bank dollar
purchases through September to an average of $28 million a day.
The bank had said it would buy a minimum of $20 million a day in
the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2. The Treasury began its
own program of foreign currency intervention this month to help
exporters.  “Authorities are clearly worried about the  exchange rate ,
having moved from rhetoric to action,”  Benito Berber , a Latin
America strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a phone
interview from  New York . “It will be difficult for the peso to
appreciate with this new element and given volatility in
external markets.”  Colombia’s central bank also on Aug. 24 unanimously voted
to cut the overnight lending rate by a quarter-percentage point
for a second straight month to 4.75 percent. The decision
matched the forecasts of 29 of 33 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, with the others projecting no change.  Treasury Purchases  The Treasury will continue to buy dollars this week to
weaken the peso, outgoing Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry
said last week. While declining to say how much the Treasury
would purchase in total, he said it would buy $200 million last
week on top of the $300 million bought earlier. Colombia’s bank
deposit-guarantee fund, known as Fogafin, purchased $200 million
over the past few weeks, Echeverry said last week.  Berber predicts the peso will weaken to about 1,825 per
dollar at the end of the year.  Echeverry, who resigned last week citing personal reasons,
is being replaced by  Mauricio Cardenas , an economist trained at
the  University of California  at Berkeley who currently serves as
mines and energy minister.  Colombia’s interbank interest rate is higher than the
central bank’s target rate, creating an opportunity for policy
makers to step up their purchases of dollars, central bank chief
Jose Dario Uribe said today in an interview with Javeriana
Radio.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 was little changed at 6.62 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  