-- Kim Clijsters Starts Final U.S. Open With Win as Federer Rolls
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-28T05:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/defending-champion-samantha-stosur-wins-as-u-s-open-begins.html
Kim Clijsters  is looking forward to
life after tennis. Before that, the four-time Grand Slam singles
champion from Belgium said she’s gearing for another deep run in
her final U.S. Open.  Clijsters, 29, kicked off her last tournament with a 6-3,
6-1 victory over 16-year-old American Victoria Duval last night
at the National Tennis Center in New York.  The 51-minute victory in Arthur Ashe Stadium -- on the same
court where Clijsters captured U.S. Open titles in 2005, 2009
and 2010 -- pushed her winning streak at the season’s final
major championship to 22 matches. While she’s missed five of the
past eight U.S. Opens due to retirement or injuries, Clijsters’s
last loss in New York came against fellow Belgian Justin Henin
in the 2003 final.  “There’s a lot of great emotions and positive feelings
that I use whenever I’m out here,” said the 23rd-seeded
Clijsters, who plans to retire again following the tournament.
“I’ve had a good feeling now in practice for a few weeks now.
It’s going in the uphill direction, so that’s good.”  Roger Federer  of Switzerland also extended a winning streak
last night, improving to 22-0 in U.S. Open night matches with a
6-3, 6-2, 6-4 victory over  Donald Young .  “It definitely brings the best out of me,” said Federer,
who will play Bjorn Phau of Germany in the second round. “The
crowds are amazing and it makes it a lot of fun.”  Top Seeds  The 31-year-old Federer, a five-time champion who’s won a
record 17 Grand Slam singles titles, capped Day 1 at the U.S.
Open by joining fellow No. 1 seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus
in the second round. Azarenka was a 6-0, 6-1 winner against
Alexandra Panova of Russia.  While Azarenka is the top seed in the women’s draw, three-
time champion  Serena Williams  of the U.S. is the oddsmakers’
favorite and plays her first-round match today against American
Coco Vandeweghe. Williams, who turns 31 next month, would be the
oldest U.S. Open winner since  Margaret Court  in 1973 by
continuing the form that yielded dominating wins at Wimbledon
and the Olympics.  Defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic of Serbia is also
scheduled to be in action today, facing Paolo Lorenzi of Italy.  Roddick, Venus Williams  Americans  Andy Roddick  and Venus Williams play matches in
Arthur Ashe Stadium today, as does women’s No. 2 seed Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland. Other men’s seeds scheduled to play their
tournament openers include No. 5 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France,
No. 6 Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic  and No. 10  Juan Monaco 
of Argentina.  Eighth-seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark faces Irina-
Camelia Begu of Romania, while No. 6 Angelique Kerber of Germany
and No. 10 Sara Errani of Italy also begin play.  Olympic gold medalist  Andy Murray  and defending women’s
champion Samantha Stosur won their first-round matches
yesterday, when rain halted play during the day session for more
than two hours.  Murray, the No. 3 seed from the U.K., beat Alex Bogomolov
Jr. of Russia 6-2, 6-4, 6-1, while Stosur, the No. 7 seed from
Australia, topped Petra Martic of Croatia 6-1, 6-1.  Maria Sharapova  of Russia, the 2006 U.S. Open champion who
is seeded third this year, defeated Melinda Czink of Hungary
6-2, 6-2. American Mardy Fish, the men’s 23rd seed, also won in
straight sets, as did women’s fifth-seed Petra Kvitova of the
Czech Republic, No. 9 Li Na of China, No. 11 Marion Bartoli of
France and No. 15 Lucie Safarova of the Czech Republic, who beat
 Melanie Oudin  of the U.S. 6-4, 6-0.  Upset Win  American wild card Jack Sock upset No. 22 seed  Florian Mayer  of Germany, who retired while trailing 6-3, 6-2, 3-2,
while 16th-seeded Sabine Lisicki of Germany was eliminated by
Sorana Cirstea of Romania 4-6, 6-2, 6-2.  Clijsters cruised to victory against a teenager who’s
ranked 562nd in the world and received a wild-card invitation to
make her debut in a Grand Slam.  Clijsters’s 22-match winning streak is the second-longest
at the tournament since professionals were permitted to enter
major championships in 1968, trailing only  Chris Evert ’s run of
31 straight victories from 1975-79.  “Vicky before the match was saying how she hardly slept
the night before and I did the same back then, so I said we’ve
all been there,” said Clijsters, who will play Laura Robson of
Britain in the second round. “I was even nervous to come out
here. I’m happy that I’m still here and still winning some
matches, so it’s been exciting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  