-- Dell Seeks Reboot as Traders See Junk Status: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-27T15:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/dell-seeks-reboot-as-traders-see-junk-status-corporate-finance.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , which has $6 billion of
debt  due  before 2016, is being treated like a junk-rated
borrower as its cash falls to the lowest level in a decade with
customers favoring tablets and smartphones over personal
computers.  Credit-default swaps tied to the fourth-largest PC maker
are trading at levels that imply Dell should be rated Ba1, or
six levels below its current grade, according to Moody’s Corp.’s
capital markets research group. Moody’s Investors Service has
Dell at A2, while  Standard & Poor’s  puts it at A-.  The contracts, which climb as confidence in a borrower’s
creditworthiness dims, surged after  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell
forecast last week third-quarter revenue below analysts’
estimates and cut its full-year outlook. Attempts to transform
by  adding  software, storage and networking equipment have been
slow to offset falling sales of desktops and laptops, which make
up about half of revenue. Customers increasingly prefer tablets
such as Apple Inc.’s iPad to traditional machines.  “You have to figure out how you transition the model in a
world where you’ve become commoditized,” Noel Hebert, chief
investment officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon
Wealth Management LLC, said in a telephone interview. “Dell’s
saying service and maybe selectively software or selectively
storage, but those are all rooms where people already live, so
you have to figure out how to get into those rooms and take
share.”  In Line  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, said the company’s bonds
are a “more accurate market indicator,” which are “trading in
line with indices at our rating.”  “Our second-quarter performance and growth of our
enterprise solutions provided a proof point that our long-term
strategy is making progress,” Frink said in an e-mail.  Net cash fell to $3.45 billion last quarter, the least
since 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down
from a high of $11.9 billion in the company’s third quarter of
2008 as Dell acquired makers of data storage, networking
equipment and  business software  to diversify beyond PCs.  Credit-default swaps tied to the company’s debt have surged
to 256 basis points through Aug. 24, from this year’s low of 110
on March 21, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That
means investors pay $256,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt for five years. The contracts reached 280
basis points on July 23, the most expensive since December 2008.  Shares Tumble  The credit-default swaps, which pay the buyer face value if
a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt, indicate the market sees Dell as a Ba1 credit,
or one level below investment grade, Moody’s Corp. data show.  Dell’s $400 million of 4.625 percent notes due in April
2021 traded on Aug. 22 at 110.7 cents on the dollar to yield
3.19 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Investors have boosted the computer maker’s  cost of debt 
maturing in more than 10 years higher than average technology
bonds rated BBB, Bloomberg data show. Dell’s bonds with a 15-
year tenor yield 4.87 percent, while BBB rated technology bonds
average a 4.04 percent yield.  Shares have fallen 23 percent this year to $11.25 at 11:40
a.m. in  New York  and reached a more than three-year low of
$11.24 on Aug. 23.  Forecast Reduction  As some businesses “deteriorated more than we expected,”
and macroeconomic conditions worsened, damping  consumer
spending , the company cut its fiscal 2013 earnings forecast
outlook to at least $1.70 a share, Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden said in an Aug. 21 earnings conference call. That’s 20
percent lower than its projection in February, and shy of the
average $1.90 estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The company, started by  Michael Dell , 47, in his dormitory
room at the  University of Texas , traditionally has focused on
the PC business, which has helped make its founder the 56th
wealthiest person on the  Bloomberg Billionaires index  with a net
worth of $13.3 billion.  Dell agreed this year to acquire  Quest Software Inc. (QSFT) , a
maker of programs to manage corporate computer systems, bought
Wyse Technology Inc. in May to gain desktop devices used by
cloud-computing customers, and purchased software vendors
including data-backup maker AppAssure and network-security
company SonicWall Inc. earlier this year.  Deploying Cash  “The flurry of acquisitions has not pummeled the balance
sheet,”  Dave Novosel , an analyst at Chicago-based bond
researcher Gimme Credit LLC, wrote in an Aug. 23 note titled
“Remember When PCs Were Sexy.” “While revenue growth is
likely to remain sluggish at best, we do believe margins will
begin to increase.”  The company has $15 billion in cash and investments and has
averaged almost $4 billion of free  cash flow  over the past three
years, he wrote. Dell’s profit margin climbed to 5.05 percent
from 4.4 percent in the prior quarter, down from 5.68 percent a
year ago, Bloomberg  data  show.  Dell said in June it will initiate a quarterly dividend of
8 cents a share and will use acquisitions to add products for
corporate customers and curb reliance on PCs.  The dividend “reinforces management’s confidence of
generating substantial levels of free cash flow,” Stephen Sohn,
a senior credit officer at Moody’s, said in a statement June 12.
Dell will “maintain a disciplined approach to capital
allocation, which includes modest-sized acquisitions to support
its strategy of building higher margin data center and
enterprise solutions.”  Computer Sales  PC sales stalled globally in the second quarter, a seventh
straight period of anemic growth, market researcher Gartner Inc.
said in July. Dell’s share of the global PC market slipped to 12
percent in 2011 from almost 15 percent in 2007, while Apple grew
to 10.9 percent from 5.8 percent, Bloomberg Industries data
show.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  accounted for 17 percent last year,
while  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and  Acer Inc. (2353)  made up 12.5 and 8
percent.  “Dell is in a tough period of transition in purchasing
trends of its products and increased competition from Lenovo and
Acer,” said Adrian Helfert, a Boulder, Colorado-based senior
vice president at Smith Breeden Associates who helps oversee
$6.4 billion. Weak consumer and commercial spending will
reinforce “the challenging environment for Dell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  