-- Thoma Bravo Buys Software Company Deltek for $1.1 Billion
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   J a m e s   C a l l a n
-- 2012-08-27T20:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/deltek-agrees-to-be-acquired-by-thoma-bravo-for-1-1-billion.html
Thoma Bravo LLC, one of the two
private-equity firms that spun out of Chicago-based buyout
pioneer Golder Thoma & Co., agreed to buy  Deltek Inc. (PROJ)  in an all-
cash deal valued at $1.1 billion.  Shareholders of Deltek, a provider of computer software for
government contractors, will receive $13 a share, the companies
said today in a statement. That’s 7.2 percent less than Herndon,
Virginia-based Deltek’s closing price on Aug. 24 and 24 percent
more than the price on June 11, the day before the company
shared information on the sales process to potential buyers on a
confidential basis.  Thoma Bravo, which specializes in investing in software,
education and financial-services companies, plans to expand
Deltek through a combination of acquisitions and internal
growth. In the past five years, the private-equity firm has
bought 14 software companies and has expanded them through 29
“add-on” acquisitions, according to Thoma Bravo’s website.
This year, it has invested in Telestream Inc., which makes
software for on-demand video viewing, and Blue Coat Systems
Inc., the Internet-security software maker.  “Thoma Bravo is excited to work with Deltek’s leadership
team to accelerate growth of the company through the firm’s
proven buy and build strategy,” Holden Spaht, a partner at the
firm, said today in the statement.  Deltek  fell  $1.08, or 7.7 percent, to close at $12.93 in
New York. The stock has gained 32 percent this year, compared
with the 12 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Ebitda Multiple  Thoma Bravo’s offer is 14.6 times Deltek’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization over the past 12
months as of June 30, Deltek said. The median Ebitda multiple of
85 acquisitions of application-software in the past five years
was about 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Mountain Capital LLC, Deltek’s largest shareholder,
agreed to the transaction, which will close in the fourth
quarter, according to the statement. The New York-based private-
equity firm acquired a majority of Deltek in 2005 and took the
company public in November 2007. Deltek’s services are used by
15,000 organizations and 2 million users in more than 80
countries.  Secondary sales, where private-equity managers exit an
investment by selling to another buyout firm, are the second-
most common method of exiting deals, after sales to strategic
buyers. The method accounted for seven buyout transactions worth
more than $1 billion during the second quarter, according to
London-based researcher  Preqin Ltd .  Net Income  Deltek posted net income of $4.24 million in the second
quarter compared with a loss of $3 million a year earlier,
according to a statement last month. Revenue fell 2.2 percent to
$86 million.  Thoma Bravo, which manages funds with almost $4 billion of
commitments from offices in  Chicago  and  San Francisco , will make
the investment out of its flagship Thoma Bravo Fund X pool,
which closed in February with $1.25 billion in commitments.  Greenhill & Co. provided financial advice, helped by  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CS) , while Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP
served as legal counsel to Deltek. Jefferies Group Inc. was
Thoma Bravo’s financial adviser and Kirkland & Ellis LLP served
as legal counsel.  Golder Thoma & Co., which was started by Stanley Golder and
Carl Thoma in 1980, split into two firms in 1998. GTCR, the
other firm, has invested more than $9 billion in more than 200
companies, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Miller at   kmiller@bloomberg.net  