-- Dollar Loses Hedge Fund Bulls as Risk Drops at G-10 Nations
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a ,   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-27T18:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/dollar-loses-hedge-fund-bulls-as-risk-drops-among-g-10-nations.html
Hedge funds  and large speculators
are abandoning bets on a stronger dollar at the fastest pace
ever amid growing confidence in the global economy.  Futures contracts favoring gains in the U.S. currency
surged to the most on record in June as growth faltered and
investors retreated from risky assets. Now, hedge funds are
reversing those bets as central banks from China to the U.S. vow
to stimulate their economies, prompting money managers to seek
higher returns from  Sweden  to Australia.  Traders have less need for the relative safety of assets
denominated in dollars as the cost of insuring sovereign bonds
for Group of 10 and other nations tumbles to the lowest level in
a year and stocks reach the highest since 2008. Sweden’s krona,
backed by  interest rates  about six times those in the U.S., rose
more than any other major currency in the past month. The dollar
and the yen, havens in periods of turmoil, weakened the most.  “We are seeing a recovery of risk appetite in financial
markets across the board including foreign exchange,”  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency strategy at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt , said on Aug. 21. “People will try to diversify away
from the dollar into currencies that have strong fundamentals
like the Australian dollar and the Scandinavian currencies.”  Dollar Swings  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the greenback against the
euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, krona and Swiss franc, surged
16 percent from last year’s low in May of 72.696 to this year’s
peak of 84.1 on July 24. It has since slipped 3 percent since
then to 81.61 at 2:24 p.m. in New York.  The U.S. currency fell 1.4 percent last week against the
euro to $1.2512 and depreciated 1.1 percent to 78.67 yen. It was
little changed today at $1.2511 per euro and 78.70 yen.  Net bets that the world’s reserve currency will weaken
against eight major peers increased to 131,512 contracts as of
Aug. 21, data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
show. That compares with about 311,000 contracts betting on an
advance on June 5, the biggest reversal on record.  The data tracks positions in the dollar against the euro,
yen, pound, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar,  New Zealand 
dollar, Swiss franc and Mexican peso.  The median estimate of more than 50 forecasters is for the
dollar to appreciate to $1.21 per euro by year-end. The U.S.
currency will be little changed versus the yen, according to
separate analyst predictions compiled by Bloomberg.  Stimulus Expectations  Rather than reflecting less optimism about the U.S., the
shift in the futures contracts may show growing expectations
that the  Federal Reserve  will increase efforts to stimulate the
economy by pumping more cash into the banking system through
purchases of bonds, known as quantitative easing, or QE.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said there’s “scope for further
action by the Federal Reserve to ease financial conditions and
strengthen the recovery” in a letter dated Aug. 22 to
California Republican  Darrell Issa , the chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  The Dollar Index slumped as much as 19 percent to 72.696
from 89.624 as the Fed printed currency to buy $2.3 trillion of
mortgage and Treasury debt in two rounds of QE from December
2008 to June 2011.  The dollar’s recent decline also illustrates that the rest
of the world is getting safer. The average cost of  credit-
default swaps  insuring the debt of about 50 nations tracked by
Bloomberg fell to 160 basis points, or 1.6 percentage points, on
Aug. 24 from as high as 250 basis points in November.  Spanish Swaps  Swaps tied to Spain dropped to 445 basis points this month
from a record 647 on July 25, and those for Italy declined to
394 from this year’s high of 580 on June 1.  Contracts on China fell the lowest in five months, while
the U.S. slid to levels not seen since May, and Germany touched
a 13-month low. The swaps rise when perceptions of
creditworthiness deteriorate and fall when they improve.  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said on Aug.
22 that adjustments to interest rates and banks’ reserve
requirements were still possible, leaving the door open for
further monetary stimulus.  On an inspection of  Guangdong province , Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for measures to promote export growth to help meet
the country’s annual economic targets, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported Aug. 25.  Draghi Pledge  Sentiment toward Europe improved after European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  vowed on July 26 to do “whatever it
takes” to defend the euro, helping to stem a slide that pushed
the 17-nation currency down about 6 percent since late March
against its  major counterparts  as the region’s sovereign crisis
intensified. Draghi’s comments came after Spain and Cyprus
joined Greece, Ireland and Portugal in seeking bailouts.  “The difficulties of Europe created one of the supports
for the dollar early on in the year,” Brian Kim, a currency
strategist in Stamford, Connecticut, at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, said in an Aug. 23 telephone interview. “You had the
safe-haven demand. You could now see some short-term further
dollar weakness if Draghi and European government officials get
their act together.”  Since Draghi’s comments, the krona has gained 4 percent
against the dollar, the Norwegian krone rose 3.1 percent and the
Canadian currency appreciated 1.9 percent.  Buying Bonds  While expectations for a stronger dollar are declining in
the futures market, investors are moving back into U.S.
government bonds after a selloff last month, a sign they
anticipate growth will remain subdued. The median estimate of
more than 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for gross
domestic product to expand 2.15 percent this year.  Speculators raised bullish  positions  in 10-year Treasury
note contracts this month to the highest since March 2008 as
yields surged to 1.86 percent Aug. 21, amid the worst losses for
a four-week period since December 2010.  The dollar may gain support after Germany’s Bundesbank
signaled opposition to Draghi’s proposal to buy European bonds
and contain borrowing costs. The U.S. currency snapped a four-
day decline against the euro on Aug. 24 after two ECB officials
said the plan may be held up until a German ruling on the
legality of Europe’s permanent bailout fund. The people spoke on
condition of anonymity because the deliberations aren’t public.  Gains Seen  “A lot of what has happened in the past couple of weeks is
just based on hope and rhetoric about the ECB, and the markets
will become doubtful once again,”  Derek Halpenny , the European
head of global markets research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. in London, said in an Aug. 24 interview.  Halpenny sees the U.S. currency appreciating to about $1.18
per euro by February. “The story is still one of dollar
strength and certainly we think QE3 is not going to have the
same effect. The focus is still going to be on Europe, and
there’s still scope for disappointment,” he said.  During the first seven months of the year the dollar rose
5.3 percent versus the euro and 1 percent against the krone,
boosted by dimming prospects for the global economy. Spanish
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said March 2 the country would miss
its budget deficit target. The nation later sought as much as
100 billion euros in European rescue loans for its banks.  Embracing Risk  Working against the dollar are some of the lowest interest
rates in the developed world. The Fed’s target rate for
overnight loans between banks has been in a range of zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008. Benchmark interest rates in
Australia, New Zealand and Sweden are 3.5 percent, 2.5 percent
and 1.5 percent respectively.  At the same time, signs of strength in the  U.S. economy  are
encouraging investors to wade into riskier assets and
diminishing speculation the Fed will need to do QE3.  The Labor Department said on Aug. 3 that employment rose by
163,000 in July. The median estimate of 89 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for an increase of 100,000. A report from the
Commerce Department on Aug. 14 showed that retail sales rose 0.8
percent in July, the most since February.  The Citigroup Economic Surprise  Index (SPX)  for the Group of 10
countries, which measures how much data is beating or trailing
the median forecasts of analysts, climbed to a three-month high
of minus 26.8 on Aug. 24, after sliding to this year’s low of
minus 56.2 on June 26.  ‘Improved Sentiment’  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks reached a four-
year high of 1,426.68 on Aug. 21.  While output in the  euro zone  will shrink this year,
developed economies including the U.S., New Zealand and Norway
will expand, according to economist estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Japan’s gross domestic product is forecast to grow
2.5 percent in 2012, while Australia’s will climb 3.6 percent,
separate analyst predictions show.  “Better economic data, particularly from the U.S., and the
hope that something will be done by the ECB has improved
sentiment and removed some of the safe-haven flows from the
dollar,” Ken Dickson, an investment director of currencies at
Edinburgh-based Standard Life Investments, which manages $257
billion, said on Aug. 21 in a telephone interview. “We’ve seen
some of this haven demand removed from the dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  