-- Yen Gains Against Major Peers Amid Global Slowdown Signs
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-08-28T08:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/dollar-remains-higher-versus-yen-before-confidence-report.html
The yen strengthened after Japan cut
its economic assessment, underlining the fragility of the global
economy and spurring demand for the safest assets.  Japan’s currency weakened against all except three of its
16 major counterparts as Asian and European stocks declined. The
euro fell to the lowest in a week against the yen after a
government report showed  Spain ’s recession deepened in the
second quarter. New Zealand’s dollar dropped after dairy
exporter Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. lowered its forecast
payout to suppliers, citing the currency’s strength.  “It’s not a big surprise that Japan has cut its forecasts
because growth is falling short of expectations in many
countries,” said  Simon Smith , chief economist at FXPro Group
Ltd. in  London . “The yen is doing pretty well.”  The yen climbed 0.2 percent to 98.27 per euro at 9:07 a.m.
London time after appreciating to 97.89 yen, the strongest level
since Aug. 20. Japan’s currency gained 0.2 percent to 78.58 per
dollar. The euro gained 0.1 percent to $1.2508.  The yen will probably advance beyond 78 per dollar in the
next four-to-six weeks, FXPro’s Smith said.  Japan’s Cabinet Office said risks to the economy include a
“further slowing down of overseas economies and sharp
fluctuations in the financial and capital markets,” according to
a monthly report released in  Tokyo . The government lowered its
view on personal consumption, home-building, exports, imports
and industrial output.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares dropped 0.5 percent,
and the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slid 0.5 percent.  Spain Recession  Spain’s  gross domestic product  shrank 0.4 percent from the
previous three months, after shrinking 0.3 percent in the first
quarter, the Madrid-based National Statistics Institute said.  “The overall backdrop to the global economy remains mostly
weak,” said Callum Henderson, global head of currency research
at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore. “The yen should
outperform the euro.”  Europe’s common currency has depreciated 5 percent in the
past six months, the biggest decline among the 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The yen was the best performer, rising 5.9 percent, and
the dollar advanced 3.1 percent.  “Everybody wants to sell the euro,” said  Satoshi Okagawa ,
a senior global-markets analyst at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.
in Singapore. “I don’t expect a swift recovery” in the euro
region’s economy, he said.  Spain is scheduled to sell as much as 3.5 billion euros of
bills today, while Italy will auction zero-coupon and inflation-
linked securities.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  snapped a two-day gain as investors
weighed whether the  Federal Reserve  will embark on a third round
of bond purchases, known as quantitative easing.  The gauge, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to
track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, was little changed at 81.62. The index dropped to
81.221 on Aug. 23, the lowest level since June 20.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will speak in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , on Aug. 31 at an annual symposium hosted by the Fed
Bank of  Kansas City .  “The market may be open for disappointment” at Jackson
Hole, said Derek Mumford, a Sydney-based director at Rochford
Capital, a currency risk-management company. “Assuming there
won’t be significant quantitative easing, then the  U.S. dollar 
could have quite a strong performance in the next couple of
months.”  Factory Index  The Fed Bank of Richmond will say today its regional
 factory index  improved to minus 10 this month, from minus 17 in
July, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. A reading
below zero signals contraction. A  gauge  of U.S.  consumer
confidence  rose to 66 in August, from 65.9 last month, a
separate survey showed before today’s Conference Board report.  New Zealand’s dollar weakened for a second day against the
yen after Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy exporter, cut its
forecast payout to farmers for the current production season.  The company will pay its 11,000 shareholders NZ$5.25
($4.24) a kilogram of milk solids in the year ending May 31,
2013, down 13 percent from a year earlier, the Auckland-based
company said in a statement.  The so-called kiwi declined 0.3 percent to 63.47 yen, and
dropped lost 0.1 percent to 80.79 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  