-- Dubai Stocks Drop for a Second Day as Tamweel Retreats
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-08-27T13:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/dubai-shares-drop-on-bets-rally-this-year-overdone-oman-falls.html
Dubai’s  benchmark stock index 
retreated to the lowest level in almost three weeks on bets this
year’s advance may be overdone amid  Europe ’s debt crisis that
risks worsening global economic growth.  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL) , a Dubai-based mortgage provider whose shares
doubled this year, fell to the lowest in almost a month.
 Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Co. (DU) , the smaller of the
two United Arab Emirates’ mobile-phone operators known as Du,
declined to the lowest since Aug. 13. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
dropped 0.9 percent to 1,558.83 at the close in Dubai, the
lowest since Aug. 8. The Bloomberg GCC 200 Index rose 0.1
percent.  Dubai’s benchmark gauge climbed  in the past four weeks ,
taking this year’s gain to 15 percent as the emirate’s economy
rebounded and earnings at companies such as developer  Emaar
Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  beat analysts’ estimates. The rally left
companies on the index trading at 14.7 times their earnings,
compared with 11.7 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  “It’s a normal profit-taking situation,” said Talal Touqan, head of research at Al Ramz Securities LLC in Abu Dhabi.
“Sentiment is affected by global factors, but it’s justified by
internal factors,” with second-quarter results out of the way
and “the price level of most of the stocks close to the holding
cost of the clients, so everyone now is willing to exit whenever
a drop comes.”  Euro-Area Crisis  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.4 percent. Europe’s
Stoxx 600 index declined 1.8 percent last week amid renewed
concern about the ability of the euro area’s officials to stem
the region’s debt crisis.  Tamweel declined 1.6 percent to 1.23 dirhams, the lowest
since July 29. Du, which has the fourth-biggest weighting on
Dubai’s index, fell 0.6 percent to 3.48 dirhams. Emaar, the
company with the heaviest weighting on the gauge, slipped 1.2
percent to 3.35 dirhams, paring this year’s gain to 30 percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s ADX General Index and Oman’s MSM30 Index
dropped 0.4 percent. Bahrain’s measure declined 0.5 percent and
Kuwait’s gauge rose 0.4 percent. Qatar’s QE Index lost 0.1
percent and Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index advanced 0.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  