-- Dundee Industrial REIT Said to Seek C$176 Million in Canada IPO
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-08-27T15:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/dundee-industrial-reit-said-to-seek-c-176-million-in-canada-ipo.html
Dundee Industrial Real Estate
Investment Trust (0590454D)  seeks to raise about C$176 million ($178
million) in an initial public offering to buy industrial sites
across Canada, according to two people familiar with the sale.  Dundee Industrial REIT, created by a unit of  Dundee Real
Estate Investment Trust (D-U) , plans to sell trust units for C$10 each
yielding between 6.5 percent and 7 percent, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the plans aren’t public. A
message left with Michael J. Cooper, Dundee REIT’s chief
executive officer, wasn’t immediately returned.  Dundee Industrial REIT plans to buy 86 light industrial
properties in seven Canadian provinces that are owned or co-
owned by Dundee REIT, the company said in an Aug. 17 filing. The
sites, used for warehousing and light manufacturing, have 6.64
million square feet of gross leasable area, according to the
Toronto-based company.  “The initial properties will provide us with significant
scale in the industrial real estate sector in  Canada  and will
serve as a platform from which we will seek future acquisition
opportunities in major industrial markets,” the company said.  Scott Hayes, previously the chief operating officer of  Pure
Industrial REIT (AAR-U) , is CEO of Dundee Industrial, the filing said.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Canada’s second-biggest lender, is
leading a group of banks on the sale, which is expected to close
in early October. Dundee Properties LP and its subsidiaries may
own as much as 50 percent of Dundee Industrial after the sale
closes, the company said in a statement.  Canadian companies have raised $1.3 billion in initial
stock sales this year, 45 percent less than the same period a
year ago, and the slowest eight-month start since 2008,
according to Bloomberg data. Dundee Industrial would be the
second-biggest Canadian-listed IPO this year, following the
C$212.3 million sale of  Argent Energy Trust (AET-U)  on Aug. 1, Bloomberg
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  