-- China Lead Stockpiles Seen Dropping as Battery Makers Expand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-27T08:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/lead-stockpiles-in-china-seen-falling-as-demand-growth-picks-up.html
Lead stockpiles held in so-called
commercial warehouses in China, the world’s largest user, have
dropped to the lowest level in more than two years as battery
makers expand output, boosting demand growth for the metal.  The inventories in  Guangdong province  and  Shanghai , the two
main trading regions, fell to about 100,000 metric tons this
month, the lowest level since February 2010 and down from a
record 300,000 tons in August 2011, according to SMM Information
& Technology Co., citing data from a weekly survey. The figure
doesn’t include  holdings  in Shanghai Futures Exchange warehouses,
which have dropped 52 percent since the year’s peak in February.  Falling inventories and higher demand growth may support
prices on the London Metal Exchange, while boosting profit at
China’s biggest lead producer, Henan Yuguang Gold & Lead Co.
Chinese battery production expanded to a record in June,
according to Barclays Plc, which said that there may be a global
lead deficit in the final quarter of this year.  “Compared with other base metals, lead has a relatively
good fundamental picture,” said Hu Yongda, an analyst at
Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. Demand in China may
rise 10 percent to an all-time high of almost 4.5 million tons
this year, up from growth of 6.8 percent in 2011, Hu said,
citing increased sales of electric bicycles.  China Slowdown  Three-month lead declined 21 percent to $1,971 a ton on the
LME over the past year as copper and zinc lost 16 percent and
nickel tumbled 23 percent. Base metals have declined amid
concern that slower economic growth in China, the largest user,
will hurt demand. Lead for immediate delivery on Shanghai’s
Changjiang market was quoted at about 15,150  yuan  ($2,383) a ton
today, down 7.6 percent in the past year.  Lead stockpiles monitored by the SHFE declined 40 percent
this year to 18,282 tons last week, the lowest level since April
2011, according to bourse data. Reserves monitored by the LME
lost 11 percent in 2012, dropping to 315,125 tons last week, the
smallest amount since August last year.  China last year started to shut down battery makers and
recycled-lead producers that didn’t meet environmental standards
after reports of lead poisoning in Zhejiang and Guangdong. As
much as 90 percent of battery units were closed, according to a
November estimate from the China Battery Industry Association.
The Ministry of Environmental Protection also released revised
entry criteria for the industry in May.  Adding Capacity  China’s biggest battery producers are now adding capacity,
said Zhang Shu, an analyst at SMM, without providing details.
“They want to grab market share after the new industry entry
criteria wiped out smaller players,” Zhang said.  Lead  production  in China rose 8.9 percent to 2.68 million
tons in the first seven months of this year from a year earlier,
according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics. Output
of zinc, nickel and tin declined in the period.  “Orders are picking up at the large battery producers,”
said Chen Jianfang, vice president of Nanjing, Jiangsu-based
Chunxing Group’s recycled-lead production division, the
country’s biggest re-user of lead-acid batteries. “Some
companies even find it difficult to deliver in time.”  Lead-acid battery output jumped 21 percent in the first
half to 83.4 million Kilovolt-Ampere Hours, according to SMM.  “Demand for lead is very good now,” said Zhang. “The
situation may get even better from October as lower temperatures
lead to faster consumption of batteries.”  Global lead production may expand 1.1 percent to 10.77
million tons this year, according to an Aug. 16 report from
Barclays, with  China  accounting for 43 percent of forecast
output. While supply may exceed usage by 49,000 tons in 2012,
there may be a fourth-quarter deficit of 17,000 tons, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  