-- Emerging Stocks Fall to Three-Week Low as Chinese Profits Slump
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-08-27T22:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/emerging-stocks-fall-to-three-week-low-samsung-slumps-on-ruling.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped to a
three-week low as Chinese industrial companies in July posted
their biggest decline this year, heightening concern that global
demand for natural resources will continue to ebb.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.5 percent to 960.86
at 5:20 p.m. in New York, the lowest close since Aug. 3.  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  declined the most in almost four years in Seoul
after a U.S. jury ruled it infringed Apple Inc.’s patents.
Samsung Electronics, the heaviest weighted stock on the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index, fell the second most of any stock on the
gauge. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  retreated 1.7 percent, the
most in six weeks, while Brazilian iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE3) ,
whose top export market is  China , declined as the  Bovespa (IBOV)  index
fell for a third session, its longest losing streak in a month.  Chinese industrial companies’ profits fell 5.4 percent last
month after slipping 1.7 percent in June, the statistics bureau
said on its website. Chinese industrial companies including
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  reported a decline in profits.
China Petroleum, Asia’s biggest oil refiner, recorded its lowest
half-year profit since 2008. Commodities, including oil,
declined.  ‘Big Story’  “China is the big story, and the slowdown there is
impacting a lot of investors’ concerns,”  Matt McCormick , who
helps oversee $6.5 billion, as a  fund manager  at Bahl & Gaynor
Inc. in Cincinnati, said in a phone interview. “Many people
think ‘so goes China, so goes emerging markets.’ With China
slowing, a recession in Europe and the U.S. on hold until after
the elections, it’s natural to conclude that emerging markets
are going to be slowing as well.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong lost 1.3 percent. Mexico’s  IPC (MEXBOL)  index fell
0.6 percent as Mexichem SAB, the chemicals producer, dropped the
most in 11 months after announcing a financing plan including a
$1 billion sale of new shares. India’s  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  declined
as  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  slumped to a more than three-year
low.  Russia’s  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index slipped 0.4 percent, the first decline
in three days. Brazil’s Bovespa  index  retreated 0.5 percent and
India’s Sensex lost 0.6 percent. Benchmark gauges in South
Korea, Poland and Chile lost ground. A measure of technology
stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index  declined  2.1 percent,
the worst performer among 10 industry groups.  The developing-nation gauge has climbed 4.8 percent this
year, trailing an 8.8 percent gain by the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO) 
Shares in the emerging-markets index trade at 10.8 times
estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for extra measures to
support exports and help meet economic targets, the official
Xinhua News Agency said Aug. 25.  Samsung Tumbles  Samsung Electronics tumbled 7.5 percent in Seoul, the
largest decrease since October 2008. A U.S. court ordered the
South Korean company to pay more than $1 billion for infringing
Apple Inc.’s patents for mobile devices.  Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co. (009150) , a supplier of handset parts
to Samsung Electronics, plunged 6.4 percent.  HTC Corp. (2498) , a mobile
phone maker, fell 1.9 percent in Taipei. Two of the patents in
the case brought by Apple against Samsung are also part of the
iPhone maker’s case targeting more than a dozen HTC devices
before the International Trade Commission. HTC declined to
comment in an e-mail.  Foxconn Technology Co. (2354) , a supplier to
Apple, rose 1.8 percent in Taipei.  Earnings Drop  Vale fell 1.6 percent as data showing that  China’s economy 
is slowing damped the outlook for Brazilian exports.  TSRC Corp. (2103)  slid 6.9 percent, the most since July 2010,
after the Taiwanese synthetic rubber maker reported lower
profit. The company’s diluted earnings per share fell to NT$1.65
a share in the first half from NT$4.18 a share in the previous
year.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the nation’s No. 1 supplier
of the metal, slid 4 percent in  Hong Kong , while  China Airlines
Ltd. (2610)  dropped 2.1 percent in Taipei after the companies reported
first-half losses.  “Corporate earnings in the region have been significantly
affected by the sharp slowdown in the global economy,” Saharat Chudsuwan, chief investment officer at Bangkok-based Tisco Asset
Management Co., which manages about $4.8 billion, said by phone.  Indonesia’s exchange delayed trading after almost a third
of its members were unable to connect to the bourse’s trading
system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  