-- Energy Drinks May Have Positive Effect on Heart: Study
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-08-27T08:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/energy-drinks-may-have-positive-effect-on-heart-study.html
Energy drinks containing caffeine
and taurine boost heart function in healthy people, an Italian
study found.  Function in the left and right ventricles, which pump blood
to the body, increased one hour after consuming an energy drink,
according to the researchers, who used echocardiography on 35
healthy people with an average age of 25. Diastolic  blood
pressure  rose 6 percent, while an increase in  heart rate  and
systolic blood pressure wasn’t statistically significant, they
said. The results were presented at the  European Society of
Cardiology  conference in Munich today.  The global energy-drink market grew 14 percent in 2011 to
$41.5 billion, accounting for 8.7 percent of the $498 billion
global soft drinks industry, according to an analysis by
Bloomberg Industries. As the market has expanded, concerns have
been raised about the beverages’ impact on the heart, Matteo
Cameli, a researcher at the University of Siena in  Italy  and co-
author of the study, said in a statement today.  “Future studies need to focus on whether such benefits
persist after long-term consumption of energy drinks, and what
the effects are of consuming these drinks during physical
activity,” Cameli said. “It will also be important to
determine which of the effects are induced in patients with
cardiac disease to further our understanding of the potential
benefits or risks of energy-drink consumption.”  The improvement in heart contractions may be caused by
taurine, an amino acid in energy drinks which is known to
stimulate calcium production in muscle, Cameli said.  Too much caffeine can cause people to sweat and experience
heart palpitations, W. Douglas Weaver, former president of the
 American College of Cardiology , said in an interview in Munich.  “People are showing up in the emergency room and doctor’s
office after having these drinks and not feeling well,” Weaver
said. “Now we can see some of the physiological effects.”  Monster Beverage Corp., (MNST)  the largest U.S. energy drink maker
by volume sales, said Aug. 9 that an unspecified attorney
general is investigating the company’s flagship drink and
ingredients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  