-- Merkel Cast as ‘She-Wolf’ Intent on Destroying Democracy
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-08-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/merkel-cast-as-she-wolf-intent-on-destroying-democracy-in-book.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  is a “she-
wolf in sheep’s clothing,” intent on chewing apart the very
fabric of German democracy, according to an unpleasant new book
by a former adviser to one of her predecessors,  Helmut Kohl .  She is an “undercover agent” with a hidden agenda, a
locust, a chameleon and a sphinx, says author Gertrud Hoehler.
And a shadowy “godmother,” the translation of the book’s
title. The cover of  “Die Patin”  shows Merkel’s profile
silhouetted against a white background. Inside, the metaphors
tumble over each other as the hysteria wells.  It’s a book that betrays more about its author than the
woman it ostensibly portrays. Hoehler, who is 71 and has
published several management books as well as advising  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , casts herself as a standard-bearer
for the western traditions and values of the ruling  Christian
Democratic Union ; values she says Merkel doesn’t share and is
determined to sabotage as a “usurper” from the east.  Merkel has made mistakes during her rule. Her handling of
elections for the German presidency was catastrophic, and her
frantic efforts to fill the post with an ally were unseemly. The
speed of her U-turn on nuclear energy after the Fukushima
disaster (and before important regional elections) was
breathtaking, and the costs of that decision are astronomical.  Power Grab  Her handling of the  European debt crisis  has invited both
scorn and plaudits. Hoehler accuses her of claiming “a
permanent state of emergency” to push through centralized
decisions and bypass parliament. There is no acknowledgement
that “the permanent state of emergency” is an undeniable fact,
and that Merkel is navigating stormy, uncharted waters.  To say Merkel’s government has “left the path of
democracy” to become “an authoritarian system” is patently
ridiculous. Merkel, Hoehler says, is becoming a “trendsetter
for European nonchalance toward legal norms and laws.”  While it is legitimate to question the state of democracy
in crisis-ridden  Europe , Hoehler goes too far. She even asks
whether Germans have forgotten “the experience that allowed two
dictatorships in the 20th century.”  “One day we will wake up with no freedom, in a new
centrally planned economy,” she says. “Germany is allowing
authoritarian rule without resisting.”  Superiority Complex  It’s an attention-grabbing thesis. Unfortunately -- or
rather fortunately -- there is very little to back it up in the
book, which is most interesting as a compendium of superiority
complexes toward East Germans that exist in privileged pockets
of West German society.  Merkel clearly does not belong to Hoehler’s world. She is
by turns “an alien,” “the girl from Otherland,” “a woman
from another star” and even “an impostor.”  All this smacks of an over-developed sense of entitlement
in cozy western CDU circles -- how dare this woman take the job
that by birthright belongs to one of us?  What some would see as attributes, such as dispassionate
analytical skills, an open mind or disdain for old-boy networks
acquire sinister overtones in Hoehler’s book.  Merkel has no commitments, no loyalty, no morality, no
empathy, no passion and no values, she argues. The points that
contain some truth -- Merkel has switched direction quickly, she
doesn’t give much away, she can appear mistrustful, she does
dispose of rivals ruthlessly -- are undermined by Hoehler’s
exaggeration.  Horror Movie  The chancellor becomes something out of a Cold War horror
movie -- an imported Soviet automaton, programmed only to
acquire power and destroy the west. Yet polls consistently show
she is the most popular politician in  Germany , a subject Hoehler
doesn’t even address.  It seems the act that Hoehler cannot forgive Merkel for
dates back to 1999; the article she wrote as the CDU general
secretary that finally pushed Kohl out of his remaining party
roles in the wake of a funding scandal that threatened to
annihilate the CDU.  Instead of admiring her moral courage for stepping in where
none of her colleagues dared, Hoehler accuses Merkel of
“patricide” and a “terrible deed.” By the end of “Die
Patin” it has become “a spectacularly gruesome act” -- the
first time I’ve seen a newspaper article described like that.  Hoehler shows her true colors here -- as someone who would
rather defend a corrupt system than allow an outsider in to
challenge established networks. She is affronted, indignant at
the audacity of this upstart.  There is not a word of criticism for Kohl, whom she quotes
liberally on Merkel, and who to this day refuses to reveal the
names of illegal donors.  Backstreet German  Hoehler’s snide snobbery is equally off-putting. “The fact
that she is a very simple girl who never went to an elite school
rises to the surface every now and then,” she writes. “The
backstreet German gushes out.”  An objective analysis of Merkel’s rule -- the triumphs and
the failures -- could be an interesting read. “Die Patin” is
repetitive, alarmist, unbalanced and packed with unsubstantiated
statements, contradictions and bogus psychology. Above all,
those sour grapes in its pages leave a nasty taste in the mouth.  “Die Patin” is published by Orell Fuessli Verlag, 296
pages, 21.95 euros. To order the book, click here:
 http://www.ofv.ch/index.php?action=titel_detail&id=15348   Muse highlights include  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night
and  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 