-- Hertz Buying Dollar Thrifty for $2.6 Billion in Cash
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-08-27T20:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/hertz-said-to-reach-deal-to-acquire-dollar-thrifty.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  and
 Dollar Thrifty  Automotive Group Inc. jumped after Hertz struck a
deal to buy the smaller company for about $2.6 billion following
more than half a decade of trying.  Dollar Thrifty rose 7.5 percent to $87.08 at 4:02 p.m. in
 New York  for the biggest jump since May 2011. The  shares  have
advanced 24 percent this year. Hertz increased 8.1 percent, the
most since September 2011, to $14.21.  The $87.50-a-share offer represents an 8 percent premium to
Dollar Thrifty’s closing price of $81 on Aug. 24. It’s more than
double what Hertz offered a little more than two years ago to
secure the company’s No. 2 position in the U.S. market.  “We are pleased to have finally reached an agreement with
Dollar Thrifty after a lengthy -- but worthwhile -- pursuit,”
Hertz Chief Executive Officer Mark Frissora said in a statement
yesterday. “We have always believed that a combination with
Dollar Thrifty is the best strategic option for both
companies.”  Frissora’s acquisition of Dollar Thrifty may be the last
combination of major U.S. car-rental companies that regulators
will tolerate, an analyst said. Hertz, Enterprise Holdings Inc.
and  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  together control about 75 percent of
the market, with Dollar Thrifty at 5 percent, according to a
February report from IBISWorld. No other competitor has more
than 1 percent market share, IBISWorld said.  Based on 29.8 million shares outstanding, Dollar Thrifty is
being acquired for an equity value of about $2.6 billion. It
will cost Hertz about $2.3 billion after considering almost $300
million in cash on Dollar Thrifty’s balance sheet at the end of
June, said Richard Broome, a Hertz spokesman. Dollar Thrifty
traded below $1 a share in March 2009.  Since 2007  Hertz began its pursuit of Dollar Thrifty in April 2007 and
made a formal bid in 2010 of about $1.2 billion that  Dollar
Thrifty shareholders  rejected.  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based
Hertz made another offer last year that it later withdrew,
citing market conditions.  Since that 2010 offer, Dollar Thrifty’s shares have more
than doubled,  compared  with a 9.1 percent increase in the
Russell 2000 Index. Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty has
traded at a premium to the index on a price-to-sales  ratio  since
early last year.  “Hertz has made a compelling offer to our stockholders
that reflects the strengths of our business and our team,”
Dollar Thrifty CEO  Scott Thompson  said in the statement. “Hertz
is the logical partner for us with the resources to expand our
value-focused leisure brands in key car-rental markets around
the world.”  Advantage Sale  Hertz also said yesterday that it agreed to sell its
Advantage brand to  Franchise Services of North America Inc . and
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ’s Macquarie Capital. The purchase price was
$16 million, one person with knowledge of the situation said.
The sale is dependent upon Hertz completing the acquisition of
Dollar Thrifty.  Franchise Services, which operates the U-Save brand, is run
by Co-Chief Executive Officer Sanford Miller, the CEO of Budget
Group Inc. from 1997 to 2004.  Hertz and Dollar Thrifty described their transaction as a
two-step process starting with a cash tender offer for all
outstanding shares of Dollar Thrifty followed by a cash merger
to acquire any remaining common shares. Frissora said on a
conference call with analysts and investors that Hertz will use
cash on hand and new borrowings to finance the purchase, and
that he doesn’t anticipate a credit-rating downgrade.  Credit Watch  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service said today it put its
ratings on Hertz on credit watch, meaning it is considering a
downgrade.  The transaction is subject to clearance by the Federal
Trade Commission. Hertz said it has remained closely engaged
with the FTC to secure antitrust clearance and expects that to
come by mid-October.  Hertz and Dollar Thrifty see savings of at least $160
million annually from the combination over the next two years.  The combined company would have reported $10.2 billion in
sales and $1.8 billion in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization over the last 12 months, according
to the statement.  “Dollar Thrifty is the last acquirable rental-car company
of size,” Fred Lowrance, a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst
at Avondale Partners, said in a telephone interview. “We may
see some other, smaller things happen, but nothing that will
change the composition of the industry in any material way.’  Market Shares  Enterprise’s brands will command 38 percent of the $30.5
billion market in the U.S. this year, according to a February
report from IBISWorld, the  Santa Monica , California-based
industry researcher. Hertz will have 18.9 percent, followed by
Avis with 18.5 percent and Dollar Thrifty at 5 percent.  Hertz’s largest rivals have more than one brand, allowing
them to charge varying prices and target a broader range of
customers from higher-end business travelers to vacationing
families seeking a discount, Lowrance said.  Enterprise, based in  St. Louis , operates National Car
Rental and Alamo Rent a Car, as well as its flagship Enterprise
Rent-A-Car brand. Parsippany, New Jersey-based Avis has both the
Avis premium brand and Budget Car Rental, which caters to
leisure travelers. Leisure travel makes up 41 percent of the
market in the U.S., according to IBISWorld.  Hertz’s original offer for Dollar Thrifty came in April
2010 and was $41. That prompted Avis Budget Group Inc., which
had also considered a bid, to join the pursuit. Avis made its
initial bid for Dollar Thrifty on July 28 and sweetened it
twice. Dollar Thrifty’s board backed Hertz’s offer, deeming it
the one most likely to clear antitrust hurdles.  ‘Final’ Offer  Dollar Thrifty shareholders rejected what Hertz called its
‘‘best and final” offer in Sept. 2010 to buy the company for
about $1.2 billion. The vote was about 13.8 million shares
against the Hertz bid, versus 11.8 million shares in favor.  After the other aborted offer, Hertz said it planned to
divest its Advantage brand to appease Federal Trade Commission
concerns.  Antitrust experts said the FTC may scrutinize whether the
merger will hurt competition in local markets, such as airports
and train stations, where the combined company might gain more
control of retail space.  “The government might want them to loosen up leases for
space or spin off a lease in some situations -- for example if
the merging firms dominate terminal space and everybody else is
a shuttle bus away,” said Herb Hovenkamp, a professor and
antitrust specialist at the University of Iowa College of Law in
Iowa City. “I don’t see much here that suggests they would
block it.”  Weight Lifted  Hertz shares rose 14 percent the day the original deal was
announced in April 2010. Investors see the acquisition as an
“extremely positive” development for Hertz, Lowrance said.  “I think what you’re seeing today is the lifting of the
merger-overhang that was weighing on shares of all the industry
players,” he said in an interview.  Avis in October 2011 acquired Avis  Europe  Plc, a month
after ending its formal pursuit of Dollar Thrifty. Avis saw it
as getting too expensive, according to the person familiar with
the situation.  While Hertz reaffirmed in a July 31 statement that it still
was interested in an acquisition, Dollar Thrifty CEO Thompson
said the next day Hertz should make a “compelling offer” or
end the process.  Dollar Thrifty contacted Avis Budget Group Inc. last month
to solicit a new offer, a person with knowledge of the matter
said at the time. Avis declined, the person said.  Relative Value  The Hertz bid for Dollar Thrifty, at 3.63 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization is more
expensive than Avis’ acquisition of the European business, which
went for 2.97 times Ebitda.  In recent weeks, Hertz began soliciting Dollar Thrifty
shareholders to gauge their selling price, according to three
people with knowledge of the process. Hertz also asked investors
if a hostile bid should be pursued, said one of the people.  The final offer was approved unanimously by the two boards.
Now a majority of Dollar Thrifty shares must be tendered for the
deal to proceed.  Breakup Fees  The transaction doesn’t include breakup fees, people
familiar with the negotiations said. That means that Hertz
wouldn’t have to pay Dollar Thrifty if antitrust regulators
block the transaction, and Dollar Thrifty wouldn’t have to pay
if it took a higher offer from a third party.  The terms of the deal allow Dollar Thrifty to solicit a
higher offer for 30 days, the company said in  filing .  “We’ll be a stronger global competitive player with a full
range of rental options not only in the U.S. but in Europe and
other markets given Dollar Thrifty’s strong international
presence,” Frissora said in the statement. “We look forward to
moving efficiently and swiftly through the regulatory process
having reached an agreement to divest our Advantage brand.”  Thompson’s Payout  Thompson stands to profit personally from the transaction,
especially because of options granted to him when the stock
price was much lower. Based on Thompson’s holdings as of an
April filing, his stock and options would be worth $59.4 million
at the takeover price.  If he loses his job because of the deal, he’s also entitled
to benefits including about $10.4 million in severance, $6.5
million in performance shares and a $5.8 million tax “gross
up,” Dollar Thrifty said in the April filing.  Hertz was advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Bank of
America Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG, while Cravath, Swaine &
Moore LLP, Debevoise & Plimpton LLP and Jones Day LLP acted as
legal advisers. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman, Sachs & Co.
advised Dollar Thrifty, with  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
LLP  acting as legal advisers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  