-- European Stocks Climb Amid Debt-Crisis Talks
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-08-27T16:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/european-stock-futures-drop-thyssenkrupp-may-move.html
European stocks  rose as Germany’s
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the continent’s two
largest economies will create a working group to strengthen the
euro area’s fiscal and monetary union.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  both gained more than 2
percent.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  jumped 7.7 percent after a jury found rival
Samsung Electronics Co. had violated Apple Inc. patents.  Q-Cells
SE (QCE)  surged 12 percent after South Korea’s Hanwha Group signed a
deal to acquire the insolvent German company.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.5 percent to 269.2 at
the close, after earlier falling as much as 0.2 percent. The
volume of shares changing hands on the equity benchmark was 64
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, because the U.K. market was closed
for a public holiday.  “Markets are more driven by political headlines than by
fundamental news,” said Lex Van Dam, who manages $500 million
at Hampstead Capital LLC in London. “It’s a very quiet market
which is no surprise for a U.K. bank holiday. Real investors
remain on the side lines.”  Schaeuble said today that Germany and France will seek to
develop common proposals on a fiscal, banking and monetary
union. He also told reporters, after meeting with French Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  in Berlin today, that the two
countries will look for measures to boost economic growth.  Next month, the  European Central Bank  will formulate a
bond-buying plan and representatives of Greece’s international
creditors will issue a progress report. A German court will also
announce its decision on the legality of the euro area’s
proposed permanent bailout fund.  Jackson Hole  Investors are also awaiting a speech from Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on Aug. 31 at the Kansas City Fed’s
annual economic symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . His speech
in 2010 preceded a second round of bond purchasing, or
quantitative easing, to help support the economic recovery.  Fed Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans today urged the
central bank to begin a third round of asset buying. The Fed
should buy bonds until the U.S. unemployment rate declines for
at least six months, Evans said in a speech in Hong Kong today.
Speculation that central banks will do more to bolster growth
has helped drive up stocks and commodities, with the  S&P 500 
rallying 10 percent since June 1 and the Stoxx 600 climbing  15
percent (SXXP)  from June 4.  “We are unlikely to get anything out of the Fed” this
week, said Van Dam. “Consensus is still that if they print
enough money, markets will continue to rise, but this is in no
way a certainty.”  European Equities  National benchmark indexes gained in every Western-European
market that opened today. France’s CAC 40 rose 0.9 percent and
Spain’s IBEX 35 increased 1.2 percent. Germany’s DAX Index
climbed 1.1 percent after a report showed  business confidence 
fell less than some economists forecast.  A gauge of European banks climbed 0.8 percent as Spanish
10-year bonds rallied.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender, gained 2.4 percent
to 27.92 euros, while BNP Paribas climbed 2.1 percent to 34.90
euros in Paris.  Nokia surged 7.7 percent to 2.68 euros, for the biggest
advance on the Stoxx 600, amid speculation the company’s sales
will benefit if the U.S. bans some of Samsung’s mobile devices.  Samsung plummeted in Asian trading after a U.S. court on
Aug. 24 ruled that the world’s biggest handset maker infringed
six of seven Apple patents. A ban may undermine Samsung’s grip
on the smartphone market and set a precedent for rival handset
makers that use Google Inc.’s Android operating system.  Q-Cells Jumps  Q-Cells soared 12 percent to 19 euro cents. The shares
surged as much as 40 percent after Hanwha agreed to buy the
company that filed for insolvency in April. Hanwha, which signed
a deal yesterday with Q-Cell’s administrator, Henning Schorisch,
will assume “business liabilities in the low hundreds of
millions” and a cash purchase price “in the medium double-
digit million euro range.”  Spain’s Isofoton SA had said it would bid for Q-Cells at
the beginning of this week. Q-Cells surged 33 percent on Aug. 24
following a report that Hanwha would buy the business.  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE)  climbed 4.4 percent to 153.60 kronor
after the Swedish  oil company  said it discovered a 25-meter oil
column at an appraisal well in the northeastern part of Johan
Sverdrup deposit, Norway’s largest oil find since 1974.  Statoil ASA (STL)  also said today that its Geitungen prospect in
the North Sea holds as much as 270 million barrels of oil. The
shares increased 0.8 percent to 148.10 kroner.  ThyssenKrupp Gains  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  rose 1.7 percent to 16.49 euros after Welt
am Sonntag reported that  Germany’s biggest steelmaker  wants to
sell plants in the U.S. and Brazil for at least their book value
of 7 billion euros ($8.8 billion). The newspaper cited an
interview with Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger .  Several parties have shown interest in the assets and the
company will wait to see what offers it receives, Welt am
Sonntag reported. ThyssenKrupp will use the funds for
investments and to pay down debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  