-- Europe Naphtha Cargoes Headed to Asia in August Rise to Eight
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-08-27T06:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/europe-naphtha-cargoes-headed-to-asia-in-august-rise-to-eight.html
An eighth tanker was scheduled to
transport naphtha from  Europe  to  Asia  this month, one more than
booked last week, according to shipbroker data.  The Four Wind was chartered to haul the gasoline and
petrochemical feedstock, taking the total volume of naphtha
loading in August for delivery to Asia to about 640,000 metric
tons, shipping data compiled by Bloomberg showed. Bookings are
provisional and subject to change or cancellation.  The East-West spread, or the premium of European naphtha to
Asian prices, dropped to $2.62 a ton on Aug. 24, the smallest
difference in four months, signaling lower profit from
transporting cargoes. The spread was at $2.76 a ton today,
according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd. It has averaged
$9.38 in August, compared with $15.91 in July.  “Asia’s appetite for European naphtha appears to be
satisfied for the time being,”  David Wech , a managing director
at JBC Energy GmbH, a Vienna-based energy consultant, said in a
report dated Aug. 24.  About 700,000 tons of naphtha may load in Europe in August
for shipment to Asia, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of seven shipbrokers and traders this month.
That compares with 410,000 tons in July and would be the biggest
monthly volume since Bloomberg records began in January 2010,
the survey showed.  A vessel traveling from  Italy  to  Japan  would take about 37
days to complete the voyage, based on calculations from the e-
ships.net website.  The following table lists oil-product tankers reported to
ship naphtha in July and August, according to shipbroker data
and transmissions captured by  IHS Inc. (IHS)  on Bloomberg:  The following table lists the monthly volume of European
naphtha shipments to Asia by loading month, according to ship
transmissions captured by IHS Inc. and a Bloomberg News survey
of traders and shipbrokers:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  