-- Euro Strengthens Against Most Counterparts on Crisis Plan
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-27T21:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/euro-remains-lower-before-german-business-confidence-data.html
The euro gained against the majority
of its most-traded peers as investors speculated that European
leaders will make progress on measures to stem the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency traded near a seven-week high
against the dollar after German business confidence fell less
than some economists forecast and as German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Germany and France will create a working
group to enhance the region’s monetary union. European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 the bank may buy
bonds to aid the bloc’s recovery even as Germany’s Bundesbank
has opposed such purchases. Sweden’s krona appreciated after
retail sales increased more than forecast.  “The ideal situation would be for a compromise position
between the Bundesbank and the ECB,”  Nick Bennenbroek , head of
currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York , said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen. “One way or another, these bond purchases are going to
come through.”  The euro declined 0.1 percent to $1.2499 at 5 p.m. in New
York after climbing to $1.2590 on Aug. 23, the strongest level
since July 4. The common currency was little changed at 98.43
yen after advancing to 99.18 yen on Aug. 21, the highest since
July 5. The dollar added 0.1 percent to 78.74 yen.  U.K. financial markets were shut today in observance of the
Summer Bank Holiday.  The euro has strengthened 0.3 percent in the past month
among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen declined 1.7 percent and
the dollar fell 1.3 percent.  Sweden ’s krona led gainers, rising
3.1 percent, while the Australian dollar fell 2.5 percent to
pace decliners.  Krona, Loonie  The krona rose against all but one of its 16 major
counterparts as retail sales climbed an annual 2.4 percent in
July from a revised 1 percent the previous month, Statistics
Sweden said. The krona has appreciated 8.4 percent against the
euro this year as overseas investors sought safer assets.  The Swedish currency rose 0.1 percent to 6.5983 per dollar
after appreciating to 6.5662, the strongest since Feb. 29. It
gained 0.2 percent to 8.2463 versus the euro.  Canada’s dollar strengthened for a second day against its
U.S. counterpart and rose against a majority of its most-traded
peers amid sharper appetite for higher-yielding assets. The
currency, nicknamed the loonie, rose 0.2 percent to 99.07 cents
per  U.S. dollar .  ‘Structural’ Solutions  Australia’s dollar touched its lowest level in a month,
extending a two-week decline, as concern global growth is waning
curbed demand for higher-yielding assets. The Aussie fell
against most of its major peers, declining 0.3 percent to
$1.0369.  The Australian currency may extend losses to $1.017 if it
declines below so-called support at $1.3042, according to
 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA) , citing trading patterns.  The euro fluctuated against the dollar after Schaeuble said
the working group will prepare solutions in the areas of banking
union and a strengthening of a fiscal union and monetary union.
He spoke after meeting with French Economy and Finance Minister
 Pierre Moscovici  in Berlin. Moscovici said the two states will
work on “structural” solutions.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told officials in her
coalition calling for a Greek exit from the euro to “weigh
their words” as she signaled a renewed determination to keep
the single currency intact.  ‘Decent Read’  The Ifo institute in Munich said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 102.3
from a revised 103.2 in July. The lowest prediction in a
 Bloomberg News  survey of 37 economists was for a decline to 101.  “Some in the market had expected a much worse report, and
that’s why the euro gained some ground,” said Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at Swissquote Bank SA in
Geneva. “The key number may be softer than expected, but it’s
still a decent read, and is consistent with the economy that
remains resilient. It’s not an absolute collapse.”  The euro will fall toward $1.20 over the next three months,
 Gareth Berry , foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG, said in
Bloomberg Television interview on “The Pulse” with Caroline
Hyde. The median estimate for economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News is for the euro to drop to $1.21 by year end.  Draghi, Bernanke  Draghi may provide hints on future policy when he speaks at
the  Federal Reserve ’s annual symposium in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming,
on Sept. 1. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will deliver a speech
there on Aug. 31.  “There is scope for further action by the Federal Reserve
to ease financial conditions and strengthen the recovery,”
Bernanke wrote in a letter dated Aug. 22 to California
Republican  Darrell Issa , chairman of the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee.  Bernanke probably won’t use his speech at Jackson Hole to
suggest a third round of bond buying, according to economists
including  Michael Feroli , chief economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York, and  James O’Sullivan , chief U.S. economist for
High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York.  Members of the  Federal Open Market Committee , who meet next
on Sept. 12-13, are closely monitoring unemployment and other
data and have been divided about whether to spur expansion.  “There’s nothing really to shock the market,” Dan Dorrow,
head of research in Stamford, Connecticut, at Faros Trading LLC,
said in a telephone interview. “We’re just going to have to
wait for the upcoming comments from Draghi and the FOMC.”  Euro Shorts  Futures traders cut bets the euro will weaken against the
dollar, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission showed. The difference in the number of
wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a decline
in the European currency compared with those on a gain was
123,932 on Aug. 21, down from 137,810 a week earlier.  “The decrease in euro shorts indicates substantial
expectations for some form of U.S. monetary easing,” said
Makoto Noji, a foreign-exchange strategist at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in Tokyo.  Hedge funds and large speculators are abandoning bets on a
stronger dollar at the fastest pace ever amid growing confidence
in the global economy.  Futures contracts favoring gains in the U.S. currency
surged to the most on record in June as growth faltered and
investors retreated from risky assets. Now, hedge funds are
reversing those bets as central banks from China to the U.S. vow
to stimulate their economies, prompting money managers to seek
higher returns from Sweden to Australia.  Traders have less need for the relative safety of assets
denominated in dollars as the cost of insuring sovereign bonds
for Group of 10 and other nations tumbles to the lowest level in
a year and stocks reach the highest since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  