-- Evans Calls for Open-Ended Fed Purchases of Securities
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-08-27T14:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/evans-calls-for-open-ended-fed-purchases-of-securities.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  urged the central bank to begin a third
round of bond purchases and to persist with the buying until
U.S. unemployment declines for at least six months.  “These could be open-ended purchases, meaning that they
would continue at a certain rate until there was clear evidence
of improvement in economic conditions,” Evans said today in a
speech in Hong Kong. “To me, one example of clear evidence
would be a resumption of relatively steady monthly declines in
unemployment for two or three quarters.”  Evans, among the central bank’s most vocal advocates for
increasing record accommodation, joined Boston Fed leader  Eric Rosengren  and San Francisco’s  John Williams  in urging an “open-
ended” bond buying. Many policy makers said additional stimulus
would probably be needed “fairly soon” without evidence of a
“substantial and sustainable” pickup in the economy, according
to minutes of their July 31-Aug. 1 meeting released last week.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who last month said a third
asset-purchase program was an option, has an opportunity to
update his policy outlook on Aug. 31 in a speech to the Kansas
City Fed’s annual symposium at  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . Evans
doesn’t vote this year on the  Federal Open Market Committee .  “It is time to take even stronger steps, such as the
purchase of more mortgage-backed securities, to increase the
degree of monetary support for the recovery,” Evans said at an
event hosted by Market News International. Once “momentum was
confidently established, the Fed could stop adding to our
balance sheet but keep the funds rate at zero,” he said.  Two Rounds  The Fed has expanded its balance sheet with two rounds of
bond purchases, known as quantitative easing. In the first,
starting in 2008, the Fed bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-
backed securities, $175 billion of federal agency debt and $300
billion of Treasuries. In the second round, announced in
November 2010, the Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries.  Evans said the asset purchases have been effective in
keeping long-term U.S. interest rates low. He’d like to see the
Fed start another round of purchases as soon as possible, he
said in response to audience questions.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at
1,410.76 at 10:23 a.m.  New York  time, while the yield on the 10-
year Treasury note declined three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.66 percent.  ‘Tepid’ Recovery  The Chicago Fed leader described the U.S. recovery since
2009 as “tepid” and said 2013 growth may be “only moderately
higher” than this year, with “significant risks” because of
the  European debt crisis  and turmoil over fiscal policy in the
U.S. The political debate over the “fiscal cliff” could cause
households and businesses to put spending on hold, he said.  Those concerns “raise the specter of an even more
worrisome outcome,” Evans said. “At the moment economic growth
is not much above stall speed. Another negative shock could send
the economy into recession. And if a recessionary dynamic takes
hold, it would be especially difficult to regain momentum.”  Evans also repeated his view that the Fed shouldn’t raise
rates until the  unemployment rate  falls below 7 percent or
inflation rises above 3 percent.  Other Fed presidents voiced skepticism last week about the
desirability of additional monetary stimulus. Atlanta Fed
President  Dennis Lockhart  said there are risks to moving “too
aggressively” on problems that can only be fixed by fiscal
policy, while St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said he
opposed new action with the economy showing signs of picking up.  U.S. economic data has been mostly better than expected
since the Aug. 1 FOMC meeting with government data showing
163,000 jobs added by employers in July, the most in five
months, and retail sales rising after three months of decline.  Evans, 54, was the only member of the FOMC last year to
cast a dissenting vote in favor of more accommodation. He became
the president of the Chicago Fed in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  