-- Express Scripts Wins Dismissal of Medco Purchase Claims
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-28T16:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/express-scripts-wins-dismissal-of-medco-purchase-claims.html
Express Scripts  Inc. persuaded a
judge to dismiss most of the legal claims filed by groups of
retail drug stores challenging its $29.1 billion acquisition of
Medco Health Solutions Inc.  The National Association of Chain Drug Stores, the National
Community Pharmacists Association and independent pharmacies
sued Express Scripts and Medco in March, claiming the pharmacy-
benefit managers’ merger would reduce competition and make fewer
services available to retail customers.  U.S. District Judge Cathy Bissoon in Pittsburgh yesterday
threw out the retailers’ claims made as buyers of national,
full-service benefit-management services, saying any injuries
they’d suffer from a loss of competition would be compensable
with cash while they’d sought only injunctive relief.  Bissoon provisionally dismissed other claims -- including
those the retailers said arose as potential competitors in the
prescription benefits management business -- and gave the
plaintiffs until Sept. 10 to re-plead them.  “Plaintiffs provide no indication that they are
competitors in this market other than that unspecified members
of the ‘Associations’ tried and failed to enter the market in
the recent past,” the judge said.  Still, Bissoon added, allowing the petitioners to amend the
claim if possible wouldn’t be futile and she gave them
permission to do so.  Choke Competition  Finally, the judge declined to toss retailer claims the
Express Scripts/Medco combination could choke off competition in
the dispensation of medicine requiring special handling, also
known as clinical specialty drugs.  “NACDS and NCPA appreciate that the judge has maintained
several claims in this lawsuit,” the groups said today in a
statement. “We are reviewing the decision to determine our next
steps with regards to the case.”  Express Scripts completed the acquisition on April 2 after
receiving Federal Trade Commission approval. On April 25,
Bissoon denied the retailers’ request she suspend the merger
until ruling on their claims.  Brian Henry , a spokesman for St. Louis-based Express
Scripts, declined to comment on the court’s decision.  The case is National Association of Drug Stores v.  Express
Scripts Inc. (ESRX) , 12-cv-395, U.S. District Court, Western District
of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  