-- FAA to Study Smartphone Use While In-Flight Calls Banned
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-08-27T21:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/faa-to-study-smartphone-use-while-in-flight-calls-banned.html
The  Federal Aviation Administration 
said it will study whether to allow more widespread use of
smartphones and other portable electronic devices during
flights, while ruling out voice calls.  A government-industry group will be formed to review
current policies, testing methods and technological standards
and will make recommendations to the FAA, the agency said today
in a news release.  “We’re looking for information to help air carriers and
operators decide if they can allow more widespread use of
electronic devices in today’s aircraft,” Michael Huerta, acting
FAA administrator, said in the release.  The working group is to be established in the coming months
and will meet for six months before making recommendations. The
group won’t consider allowing the use of mobile phones for voice
communications during flight, the agency said.  Many airlines offer Wi-Fi signals when planes are cruising,
and new policies could let business travelers work as aircraft
ascend and descend, adding about 40 minutes to their productive
time,  Kevin Mitchell , chairman of the Business Travel Coalition,
a trade group for corporate travel managers, said in an
interview.  “It’s a good thing,” said Mitchell, whose trade group is
based in Radnor,  Pennsylvania . “The pilots use iPads during
taxi and takeoff, so why shouldn’t we see if passengers can?”  Safety First  FAA regulations require airlines to determine that radio-
frequency interference from electronic devices won’t affect a
plane’s avionics before allowing them to be used during certain
phases of flight, testing few have been willing to do.  “The safety of our passengers and crews remains our top
priority and our members will work cooperatively with the FAA on
opportunities to evaluate personal electronic devices to ensure
customers can use these products safely during flight,”  Steve Lott , a spokesman for Airlines for America, said in an e-mail.
Members of the Washington-based trade group include AMR Corp.’s
American Airlines, Delta Air Lines Inc. and United Continental
Holdings Inc.  Federal Communications Commission rules prohibit airborne
use of phones to protect wireless devices on the ground, and the
FAA regulates use of mobile devices to prevent interference with
aircraft navigation and communications systems,  according to  the
FCC’s website.  “This is an issue of consumer interest,” Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood, who supervises the FAA, said in the
release. “We must set appropriate standards as we help the
industry consider when passengers can use the latest
technologies safely during a flight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  