-- Faculty Question SUNY-Buffalo About Fracking Institute
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-08-27T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/faculty-question-suny-buffalo-about-fracking-institute.html
State University of New York  at
Buffalo faculty are seeking more information on industry ties to
an institute created to study fracking for natural gas.  A group of 83 professors and staff have requested documents
on the founding and funding of the school’s  Shale Resources and
Society Institute , according to an Aug. 23 “ open letter ” to
the university administration in the UB Reporter, an online
faculty newspaper.  The institute released a report in May that didn’t
acknowledge “long-term” ties by its authors to the gas
industry while it seeks more than $1 million in corporate
funding,   Bloomberg News  reported on July 23.  A U.S. boom in natural gas production from a process called
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has raised concerns that ties
between industry and academic research may compromise scholars’
independence, Bloomberg reported. Other universities have
responded to similar concerns.  “A number of questions have been raised about whether the
institute was really intended to provide independent academic
inquiry,” according to the faculty members’ letter. “Only
complete transparency can dispel the shadow now cast over UB.”  University spokesman John Della Contrada did not return a
phone call or e-mail seeking comment on the faculty action.  In fracking, millions of gallons of chemically treated
water and sand are forced underground to break shale rock and
free trapped gas. While shale gas production has lowered energy
prices, created jobs, and enhanced national security, fracking
has been blamed for groundwater contamination.  Institute’s Report  Regulators in New York have banned fracking while
environmental rules are drafted. New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
is considering a plan that would allow fracking in five counties
near the Pennsylvania border.  In April, the newly formed Shale Resources and Society
Institute issued a report that found drillers in Pennsylvania
had reduced by half the rate of blowouts, spills and water
contamination since 2008. Potential environmental problems could
be “entirely avoided or mitigated” under New York’s proposed
rules, according to the shale institute’s report.  The Public Accountability Initiative, a Buffalo nonprofit
that focuses on corruption in business and government, said the
report contained errors and didn’t acknowledge “extensive
ties” by its authors to the gas industry.  Last month, the  University of Texas  at Austin announced it
would convene a group of independent experts to review its
February study on gas fracking after reports that the professor
who led the study is on the board of a gas drilling company.  Texas Panel  Charles Groat, associate director of the university’s
Energy Institute and former Director of the  U.S. Geological
Survey , proposed the study, selected the researchers, edited its
summary and presented it to the  American Association  for the
Advancement of Science on Feb. 16.  Groat also sits on the board of  Plains Exploration &
Production Co. (PXP) , a relationship he didn’t disclose in the report
or to his boss. Company filings show that in 2011 he received
more than $400,000 in compensation from the Houston-based
company, which has fracking operations in  Texas .  The university announced Aug. 14 that Norman Augustine,
former chief executive officer of defense contractor  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , will lead the panel. Augustine is also a former
board member at the oil and gas producer ConocoPhillips.  Industry Ties  Kevin Connor, president of the Public Accountability
Initiative, said Augustine’s ties to the oil industry raise
questions about the panel’s independence. Augustine over almost
20 years received “millions of dollars” in stock and
compensation from  ConocoPhillips (COP) , according to Connor.  “It is extremely troubling that the university chose an
energy industry insider to chair the panel,” Connor said in a
statement.  Steven Leslie, the university’s executive vice president
and provost, said one of the reasons that he wanted Augustine
“to take the lead of this committee is because of his
longstanding board relationship with Conoco.”  “Because we want the truth, we wanted to have this panel
led by someone who knew all of the elements in detail and who
had credentials and reputation that were impeccable,” Leslie
said in an interview.  Augustine is a former member of the President’s Council of
Advisors on Science and Technology under presidents  Bill Clinton 
and  George W. Bush . The panel’s other members are James Duderstadt, former president of the  University of Michigan , and
Rita Colwell, former director of the  National Science
Foundation .  Pennsylvania State University  now requires faculty research
to be submitted to university officials before it is published,
according to Michael Arthur, co-director of the school’s
Marcellus Center for Outreach and Research. A 2009 report on the
economic impact of gas drilling in Pennsylvania’s portion of the
Marcellus shale was released without disclosing industry
funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  