-- Far East Hospitality Climbs in Trading Debut: Singapore Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-08-27T10:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/far-east-hospitality-climbs-in-trading-debut-singapore-mover.html
Far East Hospitality Trust, the
hotel unit of  Singapore ’s biggest closely held developer,
climbed in its trading debut after raising S$717.6 million ($573
million) in the city-state’s largest initial public offering
this year.  The shares rose 2.2 percent to 95 Singapore cents at the
close in Singapore. The hotel trust sold stapled securities at
93 cents apiece, the top end of its 86 cents to 93 cents price
 range , according to a prospectus filed with the Monetary
Authority of Singapore this month.  Far East Hospitality’s advance exceeds gains among the 42
stocks on Singapore’s  property index , while the city’s benchmark
Straits Times Index declined 0.2 percent to the lowest in more
than three weeks. The country’s hotel occupancy rates climbed to
86.4 percent last year, according to the Singapore Tourism Board,
while  visitor arrivals  rose to a record 13.2 million.  “It’s a good proxy to the tourism and hotel industry in
Singapore, where there aren’t too many options,” said Siew Ling Tan, Singapore-based analyst at CIMB Research Pte said. “The
hotel business is still quite positive here.”  IPOs in Singapore have raised about $2 billion so far in
2012 compared with $7 billion in the first seven months of 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ascendas Hospitality
Trust (ASHT)  started trading in the city last month after raising S$459
million.  Far East Hospitality’s placement tranche was 30 times
oversubscribed, Gerald Lee, chief executive officer of the
manager of the trust, said earlier this month.  A stapled security allows investors to purchase both a
trust and a related company. The Far East Hospitality units
comprise a real estate investment trust and a business trust,
according to the listing prospectus.  Far East Hospitality will initially have 11 properties,
among them seven hotels, including Albert Court Village Hotel
and Orchard Parade Hotel, as well as four serviced residences,
according to the offer document. Far East Hospitality forecasts
a dividend yield of as much as 6.5 percent for 2012.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. managed the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  