-- Fat -Bellied People at Higher Death Risk Than Obese
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-08-27T10:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/fat-bellied-people-at-higher-death-risk-than-obese.html
Normal-weight people with fat
bellies have a higher risk of death than the obese, according to
data presented at the  European Society of Cardiology  conference
in Munich today.  People with a normal body mass index, or BMI, and “central
obesity” as defined by a high waist-to-hip ratio had the
greatest risk of cardiovascular-related death and the highest
death risk overall, researchers said today in a statement. The
risk of cardiovascular death was 2.75 times higher and the risk
of death from all causes was 2.08 times higher compared with
subjects with normal BMI and a normal waist-to-hip ratio.  “We knew from previous research that central obesity is
bad, but what is new in this research is that the distribution
of the fat is very important, even in people with a normal
weight,” Francisco Lopez-Jimenez, senior author of the study
and a cardiologist at the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota ,
said in the statement. “This group has the highest death rate,
even higher than those who are considered obese based on BMI.”  The risk of death may be related to a higher visceral fat
accumulation, which is associated with insulin resistance and
other risk factors, Karine Sahakyan, a research fellow at the
 Mayo Clinic  who is presenting the results at the meeting, said
at a press conference. Risk for fat-bellied subjects may also be
connected to a limited amount of “protective” fat on the hips
and legs and a relatively limited amount of muscle mass, she
said.  Defining Fat  The study included 12,785 people representative of the  U.S.
population  with an average age of 44 years where 47.4 percent
were male. Over a median of about 14 years there were 2,562
deaths, of which 1,138 were cardiovascular-related, the study
said.  BMI, which is  calculated  using a person’s height and
weight, is considered normal if it’s between 18.5 and 24.9,
according to the U.S. National Institutes of Health. A normal
waist-to-hip ratio is less than 0.85 for women and less than 0.9
for men, Sahakyan said. The causes of central fat distribution
have yet to be determined, she said.  Given that only one-third of the U.S. population is normal
weight, it’s unlikely that today’s findings apply to a large
portion of the population, said Donna Arnett, the president of
the  American Heart Association .  “I don’t know that there’s a strong message that people
should be concerned,” Arnett said in an interview in Munich
today.  People should know their waist measurement, and those who
are prone to have central fat distribution should talk to a
physician about their diet and managing their cholesterol,  blood
pressure  and blood-sugar levels, Arnett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  