-- Fed Rejected by Republican Delegates as Wall Street Gets Pass
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-08-27T08:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/fed-rejected-by-republican-delegates-as-wall-street-gets-pass.html
The U.S.  Federal Reserve  is bad for
the economy, Wall Street has been punished enough for the 2008
financial crisis and the auto bailout was a mistake, according
to a survey of delegates to the  Republican National Convention .  As  Mitt Romney  prepares to accept his party’s nomination
for president at this week’s convention in Tampa, a Bloomberg
News sample of 158 delegates from 10 battleground states shows
that his stances are in line with the majority of delegates on
some of the biggest questions about federal economic
intervention during President  Barack Obama ’s term.  “The Fed is too independent, they have too much control,
their manipulation is not good for a free-market system,”
Martin Simmons, 51, a delegate from Milton,  Florida , said in a
follow-up interview. He said he has more faith in Romney than
Obama in choosing economic appointees.  Romney, in an interview last week with Fox Business Network,
said if elected he intends to replace Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  when his term is up in 2014.  The former Massachusetts governor earlier said he would
have let  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC go bankrupt
rather than extend a federal bailout, although he later took
credit for recommending a version of the auto restructuring that
turned the companies’ fortunes around.  He’s also vowed to repeal the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial-
regulatory overhaul.  Voting Against Fed  Sixty-four percent of respondents rated the Fed’s
performance as poor and another 30 percent said it was no better
than average. Sixty-three percent said the Fed’s independence is
a bad thing because the central bank is unaccountable, rejecting
the idea that its independence is good because it protects
monetary policy from political pressure.  Asked whether enough has been done to hold  Wall Street 
responsible for its part in precipitating the financial crisis,
62 percent said yes -- and that more punishment would hurt the
economy by discouraging banks from lending.  Nine in 10 respondents said the automotive bailout was a
mistake, despite positive assessments by industry analysts.  “The bailout of GM was with taxpayers’ money, and we’re
hurting enough as it is economically,” said Barbara Finger, a
delegate from Oconto, Wisconsin, who lost her job as a crew
trainer at a fast-food restaurant in April when the
establishment closed. “To prop them up when the rest of us are
having trouble doesn’t seem right to me,” she said in an
interview.  Business Experience  Finger, 56, said she’s “not exactly sure” where Romney
stands on the auto bailout. “But I do trust him more because he
has real-world business experience.”  As far as Wall Street is concerned, Simmons, the Florida
delegate, said he favors words like “oversight” or
“accountability” over “punishment” or even “regulation” to
describe the government’s proper role.  The questionnaire tapped delegates from Arizona, Colorado,
Florida, Iowa, New Hampshire,  North Carolina , Ohio, Pennsylvania,
Virginia and Wisconsin.  Allen Sinai , chief executive officer of Decision Economics
Inc. in New York, said the delegates’ views go beyond
ideological positions and reflect a feeling that “the Federal
Reserve has systematically been late in the last six years in
identifying the risks, the extreme downturn and expecting more
than the economy delivered.”  Alan Baum, a principal of Baum & Associates, an automobile-
industry analyst in West Bloomfield, Michigan, said the impact
of the bailout of carmakers “has obviously been very positive”
for suppliers as well as GM and Chrysler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  