-- Fed Says Credit Quality of Large Loans Improves for 2012
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-08-27T16:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/fed-says-credit-quality-of-large-loans-improves-for-third-year.html
The quality of large loans in the
portfolios of federally supervised banks improved for the third
year in 2012, with problem credits falling 8.1 percent to $295
billion, according to the  Federal Reserve .  “Despite this progress, poorly underwritten loans
originated in 2006 and 2007 continued to adversely affect” bank
portfolios, the Fed, the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said in their
annual review of loans of $20 million or more shared by three or
more banks known as shared national credits.  The regulators said total shared national credit loans
outstanding rose $125 billion to $1.24 trillion, an increase of
11.2 percent. So-called criticized assets -- including weak,
doubtful, substandard or uncollectable credits -- made up 10.6
percent of the portfolio, compared with 12.7 percent last year.
The regulators analyzed data submitted by financial institutions
as of Dec. 31 and March 31.  U.S. regulators failed last decade to avert an asset-price
bubble in housing caused partly by lax lending standards. Rising
mortgage defaults led to a financial crisis and taxpayer-funded
rescues of the nation’s largest banks beginning in 2008. The
 U.S. economy  plunged into the worst recession since the Great
Depression from December 2007 to June 2009.  Congress tightened oversight of banks, overall financial
stability and consumer protections by passing the Dodd-Frank Act
in 2010. The Fed, led by Governor  Daniel Tarullo , has raised
capital standards for the largest banks, subjected them to
annual stress tests and is boosting scrutiny of their lending
and trading practices. That’s helped tighten credit conditions
for all but the highest-quality borrowers at a time when the
economy is posting only moderate growth.  Growth ‘Headwinds’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers in his semi-
annual testimony last month that the recovery “continues to be
held back by a number of other headwinds, including still-tight
borrowing conditions for some businesses and households.”  While the  credit quality  of bank assets is improving, the
regulators said troubled assets “remain elevated.”  “Reasons for improvement in credit quality included better
operating performance among borrowers, debt restructurings,
bankruptcy resolutions and ongoing access to bond and equity
markets,” the regulators said.  Improving credit quality has helped lift bank stocks. The
KBW Bank Index, which tracks the shares of 24 large banks, has
risen 20 percent this year compared with a 12.5 percent gain for
the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index.  Housing Slump  “If you look at bank loan losses, they have come down for
eight or nine consecutive quarters,” said  Jason Goldberg , a
senior analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New York . “Real
estate still has a ways to go.”  The regulators said that media and telecommunications
companies led other industry groups in the volume of criticized
loans with $66 billion. Finance and insurance companies were
second with $34 billion.  Nonbank financial companies such as securitization pools,
 hedge funds , insurance companies and pension funds owned the
largest share of substandard credits, the regulators said.  Refinancing risk eased, the agencies said, with 37.1
percent of shared national credits maturing over the next three
years, compared with 63.4 percent in the 2011 review.  The 2012 review included an analysis of 110 large leveraged
finance borrowers, the report said. Federal regulators
criticized leveraged loan standards in March this year and said
they were revising supervisory guidance on the products.  “The review again identified an excessive level of risk
associated with this subset of the portfolio,” the shared
national credit review report said.  The U.S. banking agencies’ sample reviewed $811 billion of
the $2.79 trillion credit commitments in the portfolio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  