-- Fed’s Pianalto Says Bond Buying Can Boost Growth
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-08-27T17:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/fed-s-pianalto-says-bond-buying-can-boost-gdp-if-risk-managed.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said the recovery remains
“frustratingly slow” and that additional bond purchases can
boost growth if the risks are managed.  “Large-scale asset purchases can be effective” and they
“justify more analysis,” Pianalto said today in a speech in
 Newark , Ohio. “It is conceivable that, at some point, policies
designed to promote further declines in rates could interfere
with financial stability.”  Pianalto’s concern about the risks from more bond buying
contrasts with the views of presidents  Charles Evans  of Chicago,
San Francisco’s  John Williams  and Boston’s  Eric Rosengren , who
favor “open-ended” purchases of securities. Pianalto and
Williams vote on the  Federal Open Market Committee  this year,
while Evans and Rosengren don’t.  Fed policy makers plan to meet on Sept. 12-13 to assess
whether the recovery warrants an increase in record stimulus.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will have an opportunity clarify his
policy views in an Aug. 31 speech at a forum for central bankers
in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  Evans said today in a speech in Hong Kong that the central
bank should begin a third round of bond purchases and continue
buying until unemployment falls for at least six months.  Bond buying could “continue at a certain rate until there
was clear evidence of improvement in economic conditions,”
Evans said. “One example of clear evidence would be a
resumption of relatively steady monthly declines in unemployment
for two or three quarters.”  Core Inflation  Gross domestic product will probably expand by about 2
percent this year while unemployment will remain above 7 percent
through 2014, Pianalto said. Wage growth will probably be
“slow,” while  core inflation  is likely to remain near the
Fed’s 2 percent long-term objective “over the next few years.”  “The remarkably unusual economic environment we are in
today calls for a highly accommodative monetary policy,”
Pianalto said. “Even with the aggressive and extraordinary
actions that the FOMC has taken, we remain in a frustratingly
slow economic recovery. Our economy is still struggling to build
momentum.”  The Fed has expanded its balance sheet with two rounds of
bond purchases, known as quantitative easing. In the first,
starting in 2008, the Fed bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-
backed securities, $175 billion of federal agency debt and $300
billion of Treasuries. In the second round, announced in
November 2010, the Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries.  Stocks Rise  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,414.31 at 1:37 p.m. in  New York , while yields on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note fell 0.04 percentage point to 1.65
percent.  Policy makers must consider the risks of further actions
and the “potentially adverse effects that our policy actions
might impose on financial markets and the economy,” she said.
While large-scale asset purchases have proved effective, she
said that “at some point, the Federal Reserve’s presence in
certain securities markets would become so large that it would
distort market functioning,” according to the prepared text.  There are “limits to what monetary policy can
accomplish,” she said, and it “cannot solve all of the
economy’s problems.”  Pianalto, 58, has been  president  of the Cleveland Fed since
2003. She first joined the regional bank in 1983 as an economist
in the research department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  