-- Fired CEO Bahar Files Claim Against Lotus
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-08-28T02:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/fired-ceo-bahar-files-claim-again-lotus-malaysian-parent.html
Dany Bahar, sacked as chief
executive officer of unprofitable British sports-car maker  Group
Lotus Plc.  in June, filed a claim against the company and its
Malaysian parent  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB)  for wrongful dismissal.  Bahar, 40, is seeking 6.7 million pounds ($10.6 million)
from Lotus for alleged unlawful early termination of his
employment, DRB said in a Kuala Lumpur stock exchange filing
yesterday. The Malaysian company’s lawyers in the U.K. were
notified of the claim on Aug. 23, it said.  “Dany Bahar was dismissed after an investigation into his
stewardship of Lotus,” DRB said in the filing, without being
specific. “We believe we have acted properly at all times,” it
said, adding that DRB and Lotus would “vigorously” oppose and
defend the claim.  DRB, controlled by billionaire Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary, is
tightening its grip over Lotus after inheriting the British
company through its purchase of Malaysian taxi-and-sedan maker
Proton Holdings Bhd. Bahar was fired from Lotus following a
complaint from DRB about unspecified concerns over his conduct,
the U.K.-based auto manufacturer said on June 7.  Bahar joined Hethel, U.K.-based Lotus as CEO in 2009 after
being recruited from Fiat SpA’s Ferrari, where he was a senior
vice president, according to Lotus’s website. Prior to that, the
Istanbul-born executive worked at energy drink maker Red Bull
GmbH and Fritz Kaiser Group, according to the website.  DRB and Lotus will file counter-claims against him,
yesterday’s announcement said. Shares of DRB fell 0.4 percent 
in  Kuala Lumpur  as of 10:12 a.m. today. The  benchmark  FTSE Bursa 
Malaysia KLCI Index was little-changed.  Lotus, the maker of Elise sports cars, has struggled to
compete against Porsche AG and Ferrari in  Europe , and has hung
on to relevance in the  auto industry  partly because of its
decades-long expertise in designing lightweight frames.  Light Car  The Lotus Elise, at 2,010 pounds (912 kilograms), is the
lightest performance car sold in the U.S., according to  Santa
Monica , California-based Edmunds.com. Tesla Motors Inc. has
relied on Lotus chassis designs since 2008 for its Roadster
sports car.  DRB, which in March said it may sell Lotus if it doesn’t
meet performance targets, said in May it has decided against
selling the British carmaker.  DRB announced a 64 percent drop in first-quarter earnings
to 32.6 million ringgit yesterday. This was due to higher
finance costs related to its Proton acquisition and continuing
losses at its Lotus unit, it said in a separate exchange filing.  In 2010, Bahar spearheaded a five-year turnaround plan for
Lotus to increase sales in  emerging markets  -- especially  China 
-- and introduce five new models, starting with the Esprit at
the end of 2013, according to Proton’s annual report for the
year ended March 31, 2011. Bahar said in December it could break
even by 2014.  Lotus sold 1,985 units during the year ended March 2011,
according to Proton’s annual report. That compares with Ferrari,
which boosted global deliveries by 9.5 percent to a record 7,195
cars during 2011, led by sales in the U.S. and China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  