-- First Reserve, SK Capital to Buy TPC Group for $628 Million
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-08-27T20:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/first-reserve-sk-capital-to-buy-tpc-group-for-628-million.html
First Reserve Corp. and SK Capital
Partners agreed to acquire  TPC Group Inc. (TPCG) , the world’s largest
producer of butadiene, for $628 million as supplies of the
chemical used to make synthetic rubber become scarce.  Investment funds backed by First Reserve and SK Capital
will pay TPC shareholders $40 a share in cash, Houston-based TPC
said today in a statement. That represents a 1 percent premium
to the Aug. 24 closing price. The transaction including
assumption of net debt is valued at about $840 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  TPC, formerly known as Texas Petrochemicals Inc., increased
butadiene prices 56 percent last year as competitors cut
production. Most rivals produce butadiene as a byproduct of
making ethylene from the oil-derivative naphtha, a process
that’s fallen out of favor as low natural-gas prices prompt a
switch to gas-based feedstocks such as ethane.  “We continue to believe $40/share would be viewed as
inadequate by many shareholders, below where the stock was
earlier this year and last year,” Edward Yang, an Austin,
Texas-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. who recommends buying
the shares, said in a note today. The acquisition price
represents 10.4 times estimated per-share earnings in 2013, he
said.  Supply Falls  Low gas prices have caused butadiene supply to drop by 25
percent in five years, Yang said. The global butadiene deficit
will expand to 1.7 billion pounds by 2016, he said.  The purchase price is a 20 percent premium to its July 24
price, TPC said. That’s the day before  Bloomberg News  reported
the company may go private.  TPC rose 1.5 percent to $40.19 at the close in New York.  TPC directors formed a special committee in late 2011 to
review strategic and financial alternatives. It’s the fifth
largest U.S. chemical transaction this year, and the eighth
biggest worldwide, according to data compiled Bloomberg.  “First Reserve is looking forward to helping TPC Group
expand its core business to capitalize on the advent of the
shale plays in  North America  and the resulting increase in
supply of natural gas and natural gas liquids,” Neil Wizel, a
First Reserve director, said in the statement.  TPC can produce as much as 765,000 metric tons of butadiene
a year, according to the San Francisco-based research company
Nexant Chemsystems. Its butadiene rivals include  LyondellBasell
Industries NV (LYB) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Exxon Mobil Corp.  Transaction Approval  The transaction requires approval of TPC shareholders and
antitrust regulators. The company plans to ask investors to
approve the transaction at a special meeting of shareholders.
Stockholders representing 22 percent of shares support the deal,
TPC said.  TPC’s financial adviser is Perella Weinberg Partners LP and
its legal counsel is Baker Botts LLP. Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP provided legal advice to the board committee.  First Reserve and SK Capital got financial advice from
Jefferies & Co. and legal counsel from Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP. The firms obtained financing commitments from Bank
of America Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and Jefferies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  