-- Ford’s European Legacy Losing to Hyundai’s Newcomer Edge: Cars
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-08-27T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/ford-s-european-legacy-losing-to-hyundai-s-newcomer-edge-cars.html
For Anja Schlosser,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
Fiesta and Focus didn’t stand much of a chance against the i30
from  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   “I chose the Hyundai because it was the cheapest,” said
the 31-year-old purchasing manager from  Frankfurt , who was
looking to replace her Fiat Punto. “And I liked the design
better than Ford.”  Schlosser’s decision against Ford isn’t an isolated case.
The Dearborn, Michigan-based company is losing market share and
piling up losses in  Europe  with a model lineup that has failed
to stand out from the competition.  That’s forced Ford to compete on price, even though it’s
hampered by labor costs in Europe that are more than double
those at Hyundai’s factories. Like other legacy carmakers in the
region, the root of Ford’s disadvantage is plants set up decades
ago in western European countries like  Germany  where workers
command high wages and growth prospects are now dim. By
contrast, newcomer Hyundai swooped in to build modern facilities
in the low-cost east, taking advantage of cheap wages and
efficient infrastructure.  “Labor costs have a big influence on car manufacturers’
profitability,” said  Marc-Rene Tonn , an analyst with Warburg
Research in Hamburg, who estimates that wages and related
expenses account for as much as 10 percent of production costs.  Europe Losses  At its factory in Saarlouis, Germany, which dates to 1970,
Ford pays workers a total of about 480 euros ($600) to make each
Focus compact, based on man-hour estimates and published labor
costs. That compares with 207 euros for the Hyundai i30 at the
Korean carmaker’s four-year-old plant near the Czech town of
Nosovice. The difference helps Hyundai offer the i30 from 15,990
euros, 960 euros below the Focus’s starting price.  With discounting in Europe’s slumping car market
accentuating the cost disadvantages, Ford reported a second-
quarter operating loss in the region of $404 million after a
profit of $176 million a year earlier. Its European sales
dropped 9.9 percent to 532,819 vehicles in the first half, while
Seoul-based Hyundai grew 12 percent to 232,454 cars, and sister
brand Kia jumped 25 percent to 173,232, according to the ACEA,
an auto industry group.  Hyundai says it builds a car in Nosovice with 19.5 man-
hours. Ford is quicker, needing around 11 hours to produce
vehicles in Europe, according to  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer ,
director of the Center for Automotive Research at the  University
of Duisburg-Essen . The company declined to comment on production
hours.  Century Old  Still, Ford’s speed isn’t enough to offset German labor
costs, which at 43.85 euros per hour are more than quadruple the
10.62-euro rate for workers in the  Czech Republic , according to
the European Labor Cost Index.  While Ford opened its first European plant in 1911 and
built up a network of 23 factories in the region over the
following  decades , Hyundai-Kia began European assembly in 2005.
The Korean manufacturer now has plants in Slovakia,  Turkey  and
the Czech Republic, allowing for a more efficient production
network, according to Ron Harbour, a partner at New York-based
consulting company  Oliver Wyman .  Alongside the Hyundai plant in Nosovice, for instance, the
company has built a companion factory that produces 600,000
transmissions annually. A Kia plant 56 kilometers (35 miles)
away in Zilina, Slovakia, makes the same number of engines in
addition to cars. Trucks can therefore depart the Czech plant
loaded with transmissions and return with engines from Slovakia.  Full Trucks  “You’ve always got a full truck going both ways, and it
helps optimize costs,” said Harbour, who developed industry
standards for measuring the productivity of auto factories. “If
Ford were starting new today and building their footprint in
Europe, they would be doing exactly the same. You’re dealing
with the legacy of what was built over 100 years.”  Ford’s main European assembly plants are in the more
affluent west, with facilities in Germany,  Belgium , the U.K. and
 Spain . While the second-biggest U.S. carmaker does have plants
in  Romania  and Turkey, where it makes vans, it’s failed to make
the most of lower costs there, said Christoph Stuermer, a
Frankfurt-based analyst with IHS Automotive. Rival  Renault SA (RNO) ,
by contrast, based its budget Dacia brand in Romania.  Ford didn’t find the right vehicles to build in the low-
cost factories, Stuermer said. Because Hyundai’s “products are
comparatively affordable,” he said, “they can keep their
factories running at full pace so that they’re not losing
money.”  Overcapacity Fix  The utilization rate of Ford’s European plants is 63
percent, according to Morgan Stanley, while auto factories
typically need to produce at around 80 percent of capacity to
make money.  “We do have overcapacity,” Ford spokesman  Mark Truby  said
in an e-mailed response to questions. “We will continue to
match production to demand and further raise our capacity
utilization rate.”  Experience suggests that the solution is not as simple as
relocating production to eastern Europe from the west. Ford’s
sales in Britain have declined 44 percent to 265,894 units since
2002, when it moved its European headquarters to Germany and
closed much of its Dagenham facility, according to U.K. auto
industry association SMMT.  “If I pull out of a country, do I lose my brand image
there?” said Wyman’s Harbour. “If I save a billion, do I lose
a billion in  revenue  in that country? There is no magic formula.
But it has hurt Ford in the U.K.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  