-- Ford Says It Got Clearance to Split China Venture With Mazda
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-27T05:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/ford-says-it-got-clearance-to-split-china-venture-with-mazda.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  said it received
approval from  China ’s top economic planner to split its venture
in China with  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , paving the way for the U.S.
automaker to increase control of its expansion in the country.  The National Development and Reform Commission approved an
application for Ford to have a separate venture with Changan
Automobile Co. instead of the current three-way ownership
structure with Mazda, Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally 
told reporters in Chongqing, China today. The plan still needs
to be approved by two ministries, Ford said in a statement.  The separation would restore Ford’s ability to have an
equal say as its Chinese partner for the first time since 2006,
when the U.S. company transferred a 15 percent stake to then-
affiliate Mazda. The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker has
sought to break up the China venture after selling down its
stake in Mazda in 2008 to raise cash.  “For Ford, they won’t have to think of Mazda and will have
more freedom in making decision for future development in
China,” said Lin Huaibin, a Shanghai-based analyst with
industry researcher IHS Global Insight. “They will be able to
make full use of Chongqing as a strategic production base in
western China and they can focus on developing their own
products suitable for the Chinese market.”  Increasing its stake in the China venture to 50 percent
would allow Ford to book more revenue from car sales and parts,
according to  Bill Russo , a Beijing-based senior adviser at Booz
& Co.  China Expansion  Mulally was in Chongqing to attend the groundbreaking
ceremony for Ford’s third passenger-vehicle assembly plant in
the city, which would add annual capacity of 250,000 vehicles a
year when completed.  The reorganization is still subject to approval from the
Ministry of Commerce, State Administration of Industry and
Commerce and the Ministry of Industry and  Information
Technology , according to Ford.  Ford this year has disclosed moves to add production output
in China, including plans to build a $760 million assembly plant
in Hangzhou. The company today signed a letter of intent to
expand research and development in the country.  “We’re very pleased with the restructuring and the way its
going,” Mulally said today. “We have approval from the NDRC
and we’re proceeding through the regulatory process, so we’re
very appreciative and encouraged.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  