-- Forest Labs Adopts Shareholder Plan to Fight Icahn Effort
-- B y   A n d r e w   P o l l a c k   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-08-27T22:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/forest-laboratories-adopts-shareholder-plan-to-fight-takeover.html
Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , a
drugmaker that has been the subject of two proxy fights led by
investor  Carl Icahn , adopted a shareholder rights plan to
protect against a takeover effort.  The plan will be triggered if a person or group acquires 12
percent or more of Forest’s common stock and will expire in a
year unless ratified by the shareholders, the New York-based
company said today in a statement.  Forest’s shareholders on Aug. 15 elected one of four
candidates proposed by Icahn in his second effort in two years
to run a slate for the company’s 10-member board. Icahn, the
second-largest  shareholder  with more than 11 percent of the
company’s stock as of Aug. 24, has said the drugmaker didn’t
adequately prepare for the loss of patent protection on its top-
selling drug, the antidepressant Lexapro, and questioned the
 succession plan  for Chief Executive Officer Howard Solomon.  “After concluding a second proxy contest during which he
repeatedly -- and erroneously -- disparaged Forest’s business
model and growth prospects, Mr. Icahn increased his already
significant position in Forest with rapid open market
purchases,” Solomon said today in the statement. “In light of
these recent developments, the Board has adopted a stockholder
rights plan that is designed to ensure that all of Forest
Laboratories’ stockholders receive fair and equal treatment in
the event of any proposed takeover of the Company.”  Icahn didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
Forest’s plan.  The two sides have traded barbs since Icahn announced his
intention to nominate directors in May. The investor criticized
the loss of  shareholder value  as Forest’s stock, which has
 declined  to $34.69 at the close of trading in  New York  today
from a high of $77.59 in 2004. Icahn has also said he planned to
investigate stock sales made by Solomon.  Forest countered that Icahn has ignored the progress made
in the last year, such as bringing new drugs to the market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Pollack in  San Francisco  at 
 apollack1@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  