-- Fox Seeks Ban on Dish’s Ad-Skip Feature Pending U.S. Trial
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-08-27T01:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/fox-seeks-ban-on-dish-s-ad-skip-feature-pending-u-s-trial.html
Fox Broadcasting Co., a unit of
 Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , sought a preliminary court ban
against Dish Network Corp.’s feature that let consumers skip
commercials, saying it would lose revenue otherwise.  Fox, in an Aug. 22 filing in Los Angeles federal court,
also sought to stop Dish from offering a function that records
all prime-time shows on the four major U.S. networks and saves
them for as long as eight days.  TV networks including Fox,  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBC sued Dish in May, claiming its new AutoHop digital video-
recording feature, which allows viewers to automatically skip
through commercials on recorded programs, infringes their
copyrights and breaches Dish’s contracts.  The services by Dish, the third-largest U.S. pay-TV
company, and possibly by competitors, would lead to a “massive
reduction” of viewers for  network television , prompting
advertisers to pay less or stop buying commercials altogether,
Fox said.  “PrimeTime Anytime and AutoHop cut the legs out from under
the advertiser-supported broadcast television model,” Richard
Stone, an attorney at Jenner & Block LLP, representing Fox,
wrote in the filing seeking a ban on the services before a
trial. “Fewer viewers will see the commercials during Fox
programs and the amount advertisers will be willing to pay for
commercials inevitably will fall.”  Credit Implications  Dish’s new service might affect the television networks’
ability to borrow money, with AutoHop having “broad negative
credit implications across the television industry,” Neil
Begley, an analyst for Moody’s Investors Service, said in a May
25 report cited by Fox in its filing.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in Manhattan ruled
July 10 that the copyright-infringement lawsuits will be tried
in  Los Angeles , where the three major TV networks sued. Breach
of contract claims between Dish and the networks will be heard
in  New York , she said.  Dish sued in New York less than 24 hours after  The
Hollywood Reporter  published an article, citing unidentified
people stating that the networks were planning to sue.  The networks are trying to stifle innovation, Dish said in
its complaint. AutoHop “complies with Dish’s bargained-for
contractual rights,” it said. Dish said it pays the networks
“hundreds of millions of dollars per year in retransmission
fees, collected from its subscriber base, for the right to
rebroadcast these signals.”  Comcast, also a cable operator, and  DirecTV (DTV) , a satellite TV
company, are the largest U.S. pay-TV providers.  The networks’ cases are Fox Broadcasting v. Dish Network
LLC, 12-4529; NBC Studios LLC v.  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , 12-4536;
and CBS Broadcasting Inc. v. Dish Network Corp., 12-4551, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).
The Dish case is Dish Network LLC v. American Broadcasting Cos.,
12-04155, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  