-- Foxconn, Sharp Need to Tackle High Tax, Labor, Gou Says
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-08-28T07:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/foxconn-sharp-need-to-tackle-high-tax-labor-gou-says.html
Foxconn Technology Group and  Sharp
Corp. (6753)  need to tackle  Japan ’s high tax rate, strong yen and
expensive  labor force  to make their tie-up succeed, said Terry Gou, chairman of the Taiwanese company.  Gou spoke with Sharp President Takashi Okuda by phone
yesterday and hopes to meet with his Japanese counterpart in the
evening of Aug. 30 or the following day, he said after a press
conference in Tokyo. Gou said he hopes talks with the Osaka-
based company will proceed smoothly this week. Sharp’s shares
rose for a sixth straight day in Tokyo trading.  Sharp, facing back-to-back annual losses, is seeking to
raise money by selling a stake even as its shares have plunged
69 percent this year. Gou and Foxconn, whose flagship  Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. (2317)  makes Apple Inc.’s iPad, announced plans
March 27 to invest 133 billion yen ($1.7 billion) in the TV
maker and its display venture before a decline in Sharp’s market
value prompted Foxconn to say it would renegotiate.  “Hon Hai wants to come in as soon as possible,” Gou said.
“If Hon Hai can’t come soon to help Sharp speed up development
of products, lower manufacturing cost, improve supply-chain
management, it’s probably hard to make an achievement.”  Gou, who invested 66 billion yen of his own money into a
display venture with Sharp, will be in Japan until Aug. 31,
Simon Hsing, a spokesman for Hon Hai, said by phone yesterday.  Sakai Display  Sharp rose 9.1 percent to close at 215 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange, the highest since Aug. 2, the day the company
widened its annual loss forecast after market hours.  The company, the  biggest loser  this year on Japan’s
benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average, fell to a 38-year low on
Aug. 15 after Deutsche Bank AG cut its rating on the stock,
citing concerns Sharp’s  cash flow  won’t cover funding needs.  Sharp will offer buyouts to about 2,000 workers in
November, the company said in a statement today.  Gou’s schedule includes attending meetings with a Taiwan-
Japan business delegation in Tokyo and leading the group on a
tour of the Sakai Display Products Corp. facility in  Osaka  on
Aug. 30, Hsing said.  Operations at Sakai Display are running smoothly, Gou said.  Foxconn agreed in March to pay 66.9 billion yen for a 9.9
percent stake in Sharp through its Hon Hai and  Foxconn
Technology Co. (2354)  units at 550 yen per share. The Taiwanese company
said earlier this month it will renegotiate the deal and hopes
to make the details final by the end of August.  The two sides agreed Aug. 3 not to discuss the matter with
outside parties, Gou said yesterday.  Loss Forecast  Sharp widened its  loss forecast  eightfold this month as a
stronger yen, slumping demand for televisions and intensifying
competition erode earnings.  The Japanese company is counting on the proposed tie-up
with Foxconn to turn around its money-losing LCD unit. The unit
may lose 105 billion yen in the year ending in March 2013, Sharp
said Aug. 2.  The operation rate of the display venture with Gou is
expected to rise to 80 percent during the quarter ending Sept.
30 from 30 percent in the previous quarter, helped by orders
through Foxconn group, Sharp said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  