-- France’s Leclerc Stores to Sell Fuel at Cost, Chairman Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-08-27T13:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/france-s-leclerc-stores-to-sell-fuel-at-cost-chairman-says.html
E.Leclerc, the French supermarket
chain, will sell gasoline and diesel at cost during September,
adding to the government’s promised consumer tax rebate, said
Chairman Michel-Edouard Leclerc.  “Prices will probably fall 2 or 3 cents a liter” at all
of the company’s retail gas stations in  France  because of the
measures, Leclerc said today on RTL radio. “We won’t be making
any profit.”  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  will unveil the
government’s plan tomorrow, which will reduce prices by a couple
of cents a liter, the executive said. E.Leclerc has 546 gas
stations in France, holding 12 percent of the retail fuel market
and 7 percent of the diesel market, according to an e-mailed
statement from the company.  Leclerc said he will be among the French fuel distributors
meeting with Moscovici and Energy Minister Delphine Batho
tomorrow on public and private measures to cut gas prices. Prime
Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said last week that in addition to a
tax rebate, the government is seeking a longer-term plan to curb
prices. President  Francois Hollande  pledged a three-month freeze
during elections in May.  “It’s political signal,” Leclerc said today. “Fuel is an
extremely symbolic product.”  French consumers’ purchasing power will keep dropping
through the end of the year as the costs of housing and other
necessities rise, he said.  ‘Who Will Pay’  While the government has the power to block prices, “the
question is who will pay,” Leclerc said. The government and
private sector measures will mean fuel prices could fall this
week, he said.  The reduction in the fuel tax rate will be “modest and
temporary” while the government devises a system to regulate
prices, Ayrault said last week. Moscovici said today that France
will cut its  budget deficit  to below 3 percent of gross domestic
product next year after tax increases this year.  A 1 cent-a-liter tax cut would cost the state an annual 500
million euros ($626 million), according to the  Union Francaise
des Industries Petrolieres , an oil industry lobby.  France’s parliament last month voted in a one-time charge
on fuel inventories that will cost refiners and other holders of
stock 550 million euros this year, according to the industry
group.  Hollande vowed during election campaigning to ease the
burden of higher energy costs on consumers by imposing a price
freeze as well as developing a system of lower electricity and
water prices for low-income households.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  