-- Free Online Games Sink Pirates for Emerging-Market Growth
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-08-28T13:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/free-online-games-sink-pirates-to-unlock-emerging-market-growth.html
Video-game makers that once steered
clear of emerging markets to avoid getting ripped off by
copycats are returning with free online offers to make money
from customers willing to pay for add-on features.  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , whose “Command & Conquer” is ranked
by researcher NPD among the top-five best-selling PC franchises
of all time with more than 30 million copies sold since 1995,
will make the game free online next year.  Ubisoft Entertainment
SA (UBI) , known for its “Assassin’s Creed” and “Tom Clancy,”
introduced seven browser-based free-to-play titles at the
Gamescon event in  Germany  this month.  Free games with extras that cost often less than $1, a
model pioneered by  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , are poised to push sales in
countries where disposable income is low and piracy has hurt
revenue. Latin America,  Africa  and the  Middle East  made up 6
percent of the industry’s almost $67 billion in revenue last
year, according to researcher Idate Digiworld.  “With the growing availability of mobile devices and PCs,
the number of potential customers is rapidly expanding,
especially in emerging markets,” said Frank Gibeau, head of
labels at Electronic Arts, the world’s second-largest game
developer by revenue. “The free-to-play model makes our games
accessible to these audiences.”  Eastern Europe  Gamers in emerging markets are more likely to use a handset
than a recent  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Xbox or Nintendo Co. Wii games
console. More than half of U.S. households own a current-
generation console, according to research firm  Nielsen Co .
Ownership in emerging markets is about 25 percent to 33 percent
of the level of that in Western countries, said Peter Warman,
chief executive officer of researcher Newzoo.  “Emerging markets are where the growth is,” said Jan Ten
Sythoff, a Brighton, England-based analyst at Pyramid Research.  In many countries, people don’t often buy games, according
to the Interactive Software Federation of  Europe . In Eastern
Europe, 81 percent of gamers had played free online games in the
previous three months when questioned in spring 2010. At the
same time, 51 percent of gamers in the region hadn’t bought or
been given a game in the previous year.  Overcoming Piracy  Those gamers may be willing to pay for in-game items or
skills, new content and maps. The purchase of a fashionable lamp
in Electronic Arts’s “Sims Social,” where gamers can lead a
second life in a virtual village,  costs  about 91 cents in a
 virtual currency  that may be purchased with real money, while a
designer rug is about $1.60.  Ubisoft fell 1.6 percent to 6.10 euros at 3:31 p.m. in
Paris trading, paring the advance this year to 18 percent.
Electronic Arts rose 0.7 percent in  New York  and has fallen 37
percent this year. Zynga climbed 0.3 percent and has retreated
67 percent this year.  Ubisoft, based in Montreuil-Sous-Bois,  France , and founded
25 years ago by the Guillemot family, sees the model as a way to
overcome piracy and attract new players.  “Online games are a way to stay in connection with players
and tie them to our products,” said Geoffroy Sardin, Ubisoft’s
chief of marketing and sales. “It is a service that adds value
to gaming and thereby incentivizes players not to get our games
through illegal channels.”  To avoid piracy, game developers only enable social and
interactive features, such as chat windows and multi-player
modes, once a player is registered with the digital distribution
platform. Web-based games can only be played if the user is
connected with the game’s server.  Profit Path  In  China , revenue from all video games is expected to grow
to $9.2 billion by the end of 2014, up 39 percent from last
year, according to Pearl Research.  There is little data available about sales lost to piracy
in  emerging markets . In the U.S. and  Canada , piracy causes $3.5
billion of  lost revenue  every year for the computer-game
industry, according to the Entertainment Software Association of
Canada. That is about a fifth of total sales in the U.S. last
year, based on data compiled by  NPD .  “Many companies tried to enter emerging markets in the 80s
and 90s and failed because of piracy,” said Allison Luong,
managing director of Pearl Research in  San Francisco . “With
online gaming, they have managed to grow the markets into
billions of dollars.”  The global market leaders are following the lead of smaller
competitors, which pioneered the online model of cheaper,
relatively simple games that reach profitability more quickly.  ‘Song Pop’  Zynga, the biggest developer of games played on  Facebook
Inc. (FB) ’s social networking site, had revenue of $1.14 billion last
year. By comparison, Ubisoft had 80 million euros ($100 million)
of online sales during the last fiscal year, out of total
revenue of 1.06 billion euros. Electronic Arts had $1.2 billion
of online revenue, with total sales of $4.1 billion in the last
fiscal year.  Zynga raised $1 billion in its initial public offering in
December 2011. The San Francisco-based company, which makes
money by selling virtual goods, produces the four most popular
games on Facebook, including city simulation game “The Ville”
with 60.6 million monthly active users, according to data posted
Aug. 21 by  AppData .  Other startups are also grabbing their share. New York-
based FreshPlanet’s “Song Pop,” a free song-guessing game, is
available for Facebook, where it has about 15.8 million users.
About half of daily players of the game are from  Latin America .  Crowded Market  Such competition means that success in the online market
isn’t guaranteed for Electronic Arts and Ubisoft. While the
companies traditionally relied on sophisticated blockbusters
which cost tens of millions of dollars to make -- meaning there
were fewer rivals -- they now face a slew of little competitors
willing to settle for smaller profit.  “Electronic Arts and Ubisoft have made reasonable progress
in increasing their exposure to the online business,” said
Christopher Hickey, a London-based analyst for Atlantic Equities
LLP. “Considering that the online market is already a crowded
place, digital markets represent not only opportunities but
threats -- intense competition and low barriers to entry may
impact profitability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  