-- German Business Confidence Falls for a Fourth Month
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-08-27T10:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/german-business-confidence-fell-for-a-fourth-month-in-august-1-.html
German business confidence fell for
a fourth straight month in August as the sovereign debt crisis
curbed growth in  Europe ’s largest economy.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 102.3
from 103.2 in July. That’s the lowest reading since March 2010.
Economists predicted a decline to 102.7, according to the median
of 37 forecasts in a  Bloomberg News survey .  German economic growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the second
quarter from 0.5 percent in the first as the debt crisis damped
demand for exports and prompted companies to postpone
investments. While sales to faster-growing markets outside
Europe and domestic spending are helping to insulate Germany
from the turmoil, the Bundesbank said last week that the
prevailing uncertainty may cause the economy to cool further.  “Recent economic data are not encouraging,” said Jens- Oliver Niklasch, an economist at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg
in Stuttgart. “The  construction industry  as well as the export
industry will see a slowdown in the months to come.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation eased to 111.2 from
111.5 in July, while a measure of executives’ expectations fell
to 94.2, the lowest since June 2009, from 95.5.  The euro rose after the report before easing to trade
little changed at $1.2521 at 11:45 a.m. in  Frankfurt , up 0.1
percent today. European stocks were flat, with the  Stoxx 600
Index (SXXP)  down 0.1 percent at 267.69.  Debt Crisis  The debt crisis has driven up borrowing costs in  Spain  and
 Italy , threatening the survival of the euro and undermining
confidence in Germany, which sells about 40 percent of its
exports to the euro area.  German  capital investment  fell 0.9 percent in the second
quarter from the first, with spending on plant and machinery
down 2.3 percent and construction spending falling 0.3 percent,
a breakdown of gross domestic product showed on Aug. 23.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest bank, said Aug. 9
that profit will fall “significantly” in the second half of
the year as slowing economic growth results in higher loan-loss
provisions and mutes clients’ demand for services.  Financial markets rallied after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do whatever is needed to
preserve the euro. On Aug. 2, he said the ECB may intervene in
bond markets to lower yields in Italy and Spain if those
governments request aid from the region’s bailout fund.  World Economy  The European Commission forecasts a 0.3 percent contraction
for the 17-nation euro economy this year.  The debt crisis is also damping the global outlook. China’s
failure to secure an economic rebound is adding to austerity
measures in Europe and unemployment in the U.S. in limiting
prospects for Japanese trade and growth.  Japan ’s risk of an economic contraction this quarter has
increased as faltering demand from Europe to  China  drags down
exports, strengthening the case for more government measures to
support growth.  JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. forecasts a 0.3 percent
annualized decline in Japanese GDP in the three months through
September after previously seeing 1 percent growth. BNP Paribas
SA estimates a 0.9 percent fall after earlier predicting no
change.  German Growth  By contrast, the Bundesbank in June raised its 2012 growth
forecast for Germany to 1 percent from 0.6 percent, citing
domestic consumption. Unemployment remains at a two-decade low
of 6.8 percent as German companies tap faster-growing markets
outside Europe.  Bilfinger Berger SE (GBF) , a German construction company and
maintenance provider, on Aug. 21 forecast profit will increase
this year, with Chief Executive Officer  Roland Koch  saying it is
focused on growing its business abroad.  The euro’s 13 percent decline against the dollar in the
past year is also helping exporters by making their goods
cheaper overseas.  “If an economy goes into recession, like the  euro zone  is,
the currency weakens and that’s quite natural,” Kai Carstensen,
an economist at Ifo in Munich, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s The Pulse with Caroline Hyde. “That helps
exporters, especially German exporters, even though German
exports are not as price sensitive as many believe.”  The Bundesbank said in its monthly report published on Aug.
20 that as long as demand for German products from non euro-area
countries remains essentially intact, a reversal of the cyclical
growth trend in  Germany  is “highly unlikely.”  “Private consumption is still growing and Germany is still
a big player when it comes to exports,” said David Milleker,
chief economist at Union Investment GmbH in Frankfurt.
“However, the weak investment dynamic is a big concern, and
this is why managers are becoming more pessimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  