-- German Stocks Rise; Deutsche Bank, ThyssenKrupp Lead Gain
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-08-27T15:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/german-stocks-advance-dax-gains-led-by-deutsch-bank.html
German stocks rose as Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the continent’s two largest
economies will create a working group to strengthen the euro
area’s fiscal and monetary union, offsetting a fall in business
confidence.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the country’s largest lender, paced
gains, rising 2.4 percent.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  rose 1.7 percent
after a report it wants to sell some steel plants. Rhoen-
Klinikum AG fell 0.7 percent as B. Braun Holding GmbH took a
stake of at least 5 percent in the German hospital operator.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 1.1 percent to 7,047.45 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt. The measure has still rallied 18
percent from this year’s low on June 5 as  European Central Bank 
President  Mario Draghi  said he would do everything possible to
preserve the euro. The broader HDAX Index added 1 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands on the DAX was 39
percent below the average of the last 30 days, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Schaeuble said today that Germany and France will seek to
develop common proposals on a fiscal, banking and monetary
union. He also told reporters, after meeting with French Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  in Berlin today, that the two
countries will look for measures to boost economic growth.  Next month, the European Central Bank will formulate a
bond-buying plan and representatives of Greece’s international
creditors will issue a progress report. A German court will also
announce its decision on the legality of the euro area’s
proposed permanent bailout fund.  Business Confidence  German business confidence fell for a fourth straight month
in August as the sovereign debt crisis curbed growth in  Europe ’s
largest economy.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 102.3
from 103.2 in July. That’s the lowest reading since March 2010.
Economists predicted a decline to 102.7, according to the median
of 37 forecasts in a  Bloomberg News survey .  German economic growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the second
quarter from 0.5 percent in the first as the debt crisis damped
demand for exports and prompted companies to postpone
investments. While sales to faster-growing markets outside
Europe and domestic spending are helping to insulate Germany
from the turmoil, the Bundesbank said last week that the
prevailing uncertainty may cause the economy to cool further.  Bernanke Speech  Investors are awaiting a speech from Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on Aug. 31 in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .
His speech in 2010 preceded a second round of bond purchasing,
or quantitative easing, to help support the economic recovery.
Draghi is scheduled to speak on Saturday.  “The market is hoping to get something similar this time
after that last round made a massive impact on stock markets,”
Lars Mogeltoft, a chief equity adviser at Nordea Private Bank in
Copenhagen, wrote in a note to clients. “Draghi’s speech will
also be scrutinized for any indications as to how to handle the
debt crisis.”  Bernanke said in a letter to Californian Republican  Darrell Issa , the chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, released late last week that “there is scope for
further action by the  Federal Reserve .”  China’s Premier Wen Jiabao has urged extra measures to
support exports and help meet economic targets as a report today
showed that industrial companies’ profits dropped, adding to
evidence that the nation’s slowdown is deepening. Industrial
profits fell 5.4 percent in July from a year earlier, the
statistics bureau said today.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank climbed 2.4 percent to 27.92 euros as a gauge
of European banks was among the best performers of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  ThyssenKrupp advanced 1.7 percent to 16.49 euros after Welt
am Sonntag reported that Germany’s biggest steelmaker wants to
sell plants in the U.S. and  Brazil  for at least their book value
of 7 billion euros ($8.8 billion). The newspaper cited an
interview with Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger .  Several parties have shown interest in the assets and the
company will wait to see what offers are made, Welt am Sonntag
reported. ThyssenKrupp will use the funds for investments and to
pay down debt.  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  jumped 12 percent to 19 euro cents after South
Korea’s Hanwha Group agreed to buy the company which filed for
insolvency in April. Hanwha and Q-Cell’s insolvency
administrator, Henning Schorisch, signed a deal yesterday.
Hanwha will assume “business liabilities in the low hundreds of
millions” and a cash purchase price “in the medium double-
digit million euro range.”  Rhoen-Klinikum  Rhoen-Klinikum fell 0.7 percent to 20.14 euros as  B. Braun
Holding GmbH  took a stake of at least 5 percent in the German
hospital operator and a renewed takeover bid from Fresenius SE
failed to materialize.  B. Braun, a closely held maker of medical supplies,
notified Rhoen-Klinikum of the stake today, Rhoen-Klinikum said
in a statement. Braun, based in Melsungen,  Germany , crossed the
threshholds of 3 percent and 5 percent, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  