-- Ghavami’s Rigged Bids Betrayed Muni Issuers, U.S. Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-08-27T21:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/ghavami-s-rigged-bids-betrayed-muni-issuers-u-s-says.html
Ex- UBS AG (UBSN)  managing director Peter Ghavami and two former colleagues lied and cheated to rig bids
for city and state finance deals, a federal prosecutor said in
closing arguments at their criminal trial.  Ghavami and former co-workers Gary Heinz and Michael Welty
defrauded municipal-bond issuers by manipulating the competitive
bidding process for investment transactions, the prosecutor,
John Van Lonkhuyzen, told jurors today in federal court in
 Manhattan .  States, cities and other issuers of tax-exempt municipal
bonds must use competitive bidding to select firms that will
invest proceeds of the securities, according to a six-count
indictment in the case. Ghavami and his co-defendants are
accused of circumventing that process.  “They lied, they cheated, they stole,” Van Lonkhuyzen
said. The three defendants “were greedy, were deceitful and
betrayed dozens of municipalities.”  From August 2001 to at least July 2002, the defendants
colluded with conspirators at banks and at least one brokerage
firm to learn about other bids before submission deadlines,
according to an indictment. They also conspired to commit  wire
fraud  from March 2001 to November 2004, prosecutors said.  $700 Million  UBS,  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and GE Funding Capital Market Services, a former
General Electric Co. unit, have paid more than $700 million to
settle U.S. claims over the scheme. As many as 13 individuals
have pleaded guilty to criminal charges.  Ghavami, a Belgian citizen, was co-head of the municipal
bond reinvestment and derivatives group at Zurich-based UBS from
about January 2001 to March 2004, with Heinz and Welty reporting
to him, according to prosecutors.  Ghavami’s attorney,  Charles Stillman , argued during his
closing argument that the government had “not come close” to
proving its case. Ghavami was a “diligent, successful employee
who carried out his work in good faith,” he said. Cooperating
witnesses who testified in the trial should be disregarded as
untrustworthy, Stillman told jurors.  “The tapes offer a picture of Peter Ghavami acting within
the rules entirely in good faith to do his job,” he said about
recordings used by the government.  Closing arguments are scheduled to continue tomorrow.  During the trial, which began July 30 before U.S. District
Judge Kimba Wood, prosecutors sought to show that the defendants
rigged auctions by talking to competitors and by paying
kickbacks to brokerage firm CDR Financial Products Inc.  Ghavami and co-conspirators often attempted to deliberately
lose auctions rather than win them, according to the indictment.
Mark Zaino, a former UBS employee, testified for the prosecution
that the group sometimes excluded aggressive bidders, solicited
intentional losing bids and gave information to favored bidders
to rig outcomes.  Took Payments  A former CDR employee, Douglas Goldberg, told the jury that
the brokerage firm took payments from UBS’s municipal
derivatives group 10 to 15 times in return for helping to rig
municipal finance bids.  Goldberg and Zaino both pleaded guilty to three criminal
counts in 2010. Each faces a possible sentence of 35 years in
prison. They testified under cooperation agreements with the
government.  Defense lawyers called Zaino a “snake” in opening
statements.  Marc Mukasey , a lawyer for Heinz, told jurors that
there were “plenty of sound, legitimate, honest business
reasons,” for firms to bid on deals they didn’t want to win.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  