-- Gilead’s 4-in-1 Stribild HIV Pill Wins U.S. FDA Approval
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-08-28T20:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/gilead-s-4-in-1-stribild-hiv-pill-wins-u-s-fda-approval.html
Gilead Sciences Inc., (GILD)  the world’s
biggest maker of AIDS drugs, won U.S. approval to sell a pill
for new HIV patients that combines four of the company’s drugs
into one.  The therapy, called Stribild, was cleared as a medicine
that will help simplify patients’ treatment regimens, the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  said yesterday in a statement.
Stribild contains two new drugs and two previously approved
compounds that make up  Foster City , California-based Gilead’s
Truvada HIV medicine.  The new treatment, previously referred to as Quad, will
help make up for a potential $5 billion in lost sales when
Gilead’s other HIV drugs lose patent protection starting in 2018
and face generic competition, said Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst
with Deutsche Bank Securities in  New York . Stribild may generate
$4.7 billion in peak annual sales, she said.  “It’s a big deal for Gilead,” Karnauskas said in a
telephone interview before the FDA’s decision. “It offers
convenience for patients that never had it before and a better
side-effect profile.”  Gilead rose less than 1 percent to $57.63 at the close of
New York trading. The shares have gained 49 percent in the past
12 months.  Karnauskas estimated that about 35 percent of new patients
will use the drug at a cost of as much as $29,000 a year. About
1.2 million people in the U.S. have HIV, the virus that causes
AIDS, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. About 50,000 people become  infected  each year.  Kidney Risks  The other drugs that make up Stribild are elvitegravir,
which interferes with the enzymes HIV needs to multiply, and
cobicistat, which inhibits an enzyme that metabolizes certain
HIV drugs to prolong the effect of elvitegravir, the FDA said.  Gilead’s Atripla, approved in 2006, is the top-selling HIV
treatment. The $3.2 billion medicine combines three drugs in one
pill, two compounds that make up Gilead’s Truvada and  Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Sustiva. Atripla will lose patent protection
in 2021, Karnauskas said.  Truvada also won expanded approval in July as the first
preventative against HIV in healthy people who are at high risk
of contracting the disease.  “For much of the company’s 25-year history, Gilead has
focused on the development of improved treatments and simplified
regimens for HIV,” John C. Martin, the company’s chairman and
chief executive officer, said yesterday in a statement.
“Therapies that address the individual needs of patients are
critical to enhancing adherence and increasing the potential for
treatment success, and we are proud to introduce a new single
tablet regimen.”  Side Effects  A Gilead-sponsored  study  found Stribild worked as well as
Atripla and patients experienced fewer abnormal dreams, anxiety
and dizziness.  An FDA  review  of studies funded by Gilead found a higher
number of kidney complications reported in people taking
Stribild compared with other HIV treatments. Those side effects
included four cases of  kidney failure  and one case of a rare
syndrome in which substances aren’t absorbed into the blood
stream by the kidneys.  The drug’s label gives advice to health-care providers on
how to monitor patients for kidney effects. Gilead is required
to conduct additional studies on the drug’s safety in women and
children, how resistance develops to Stribild and the
possibility of interactions between the treatment and other
drugs, the FDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  