-- GM Said to Halt Chevrolet Volt Production for Four Weeks
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-08-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/gm-said-to-halt-chevrolet-volt-production-for-four-weeks.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S.
automaker, is planning to stop production for about four weeks
in September and October at the factory that makes Chevrolet
Volt cars, two people familiar with the plan said.  Sales of the plug-in hybrid sedan haven’t met Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson’s projections this year. Through
July, GM sold 10,666 Volts in the U.S., according to researcher
Autodata Corp. Akerson had aimed for sales of 60,000 globally,
of which 45,000 would be delivered in the U.S. In June he said
sales would probably total 35,000 to 40,000.  The people who described the temporary shutdown declined to
be identified because Detroit-based GM doesn’t make its
production plans public. Automotive News earlier reported that
the Detroit-Hamtramck assembly plant will close from Sept. 17
through Oct. 15.  “I can’t confirm those dates,” William Grotz, a GM
spokesman, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s just
a matter of we’re matching supply with demand and gearing up for
the production of the Chevy Impala.”  The redesigned Impala sedan will arrive in U.S. showrooms
in the first half of next year, Chris Perry, vice president of
Chevrolet global marketing, said earlier this year.  “In the past couple of months, the production of the Volt
was running ahead of sales, but I thought that might be for this
particular process because they’re bringing in the new vehicle,
so they were intentionally trying to get ahead,” Alan Baum,
principal of Baum & Associates, an automobile-industry analyst
in West Bloomfield,  Michigan , said in a telephone interview.  The Volt can travel more than 30 miles (48 kilometers) on
electric power before a gasoline engine takes over.  Sales of the Volt slowed after a U.S. investigation into
the safety of the car late last year that was followed by a
congressional hearing in January, Akerson said. The  National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration  said in January that the
Volt poses no more fire risk than other cars.  The Volt failed to meet its sales goals last year as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  