-- HSH Nordbank Sues Golman Sachs Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-27T16:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/goldman-sachs-sued-by-hsh-nordbank-over-mortgage-securities.html
HSH Nordbank AG, a German regional
lender bailed out during the financial crisis, sued  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  over more than $634 million
in residential mortgage-backed securities.  HSH Nordbank accused Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, both
based in  New York , of making “material misrepresentations and
omissions” about the underwriting standards used to issue
 mortgage loans  that were pooled together into the securities,
according to documents filed Aug. 24 in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan.  Goldman Sachs declined to comment on the lawsuit, Tiffany Galvin, a company spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.
Lauren Onis, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on the lawsuit immediately in a telephone interview.  HSH Nordbank sued Goldman Sachs over $110 million in
mortgage securities and Morgan Stanley over $524 million of the
investments, according court papers.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  HSH Nordbank, based in Hamburg, is one of a group of
regional German lenders sued in state court in  Manhattan  over
mortgage-backed securities during the past year. Other banks
sued by HSH Nordbank include UBS AG and Barclays Plc.  The new cases are HSH Nordbank AG v. Morgan Stanley,
652988/2012, and HSH Nordbank AG v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
652991/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County,
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 