-- Gold Set for Best Year Since 2010 as Stimulus Bets Increase
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-08-27T11:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/gold-set-for-best-year-since-2010-as-stimulus-bets-stoke-demand.html
Gold is poised to climb the most in
two years as prospects for additional economic stimulus by
governments from the U.S. to  China  stoke demand for the precious
metal as a bet against inflation, a survey showed.  Bullion for immediate delivery may reach $1,800 an ounce by
the year-end, extending gains this year to 15 percent, according
to the median forecast in the Bloomberg survey of 15 traders and
analysts at a conference in Hyderabad in South India on Aug. 25.
That would be the most since a 30 percent surge in 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gold is set for a 12th year of gains as the European
sovereign-debt crisis boosts haven demand amid speculation of
further policy easing by central banks, including the U.S.
Federal Reserve, which may be considering a third round of so-
called quantitative easing, or QE3. Investment holdings have
expanded to a record on demand for a hedge against inflation.  “The  euro zone  has been quiet of late, but that doesn’t
mean the problems have disappeared,” said Jeffrey Rhodes,
global head of precious metals at  INTL FCStone Inc. (INTL) , who expects
gold to rally to $1,975 by year-end. “The  U.S. economy  has been
sluggish and there is a growing belief that there is going to be
QE3 soon. This anticipation is driving the market.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week there’s “scope
for further action” from the U.S. central bank. He is scheduled
to speak later this week at the Fed’s annual symposium in
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming. China’s Premier Wen Jiabao has urged
additional steps to support exports and help meet economic
targets as evidence mounts the slowdown is deepening.  Europe Strains  Gold for immediate delivery rose as much as 0.4 percent to
$1,676.90 an ounce today, the highest since April 13, and was
little changed at $1,670.60 an ounce at 4:42 p.m. in Mumbai.
Prices gained 3.4 percent last week, the most since the week
ended Jan. 27. Spot gold reached a record $1,921.15 on Sept. 6.  “ Europe ’s financial situation is straining at the seams
and with no fix forthcoming, demand for safe havens is likely to
remain strong,” said Bimal Das, director at ScotiaMocatta, the
metals trading unit of Bank of  Nova Scotia .  The European leaders are preparing for a critical month in
the three-year-old crisis that will involve the formulation of a
European Central Bank bond-buying plan, a progress report by
Greece’s international creditors and a looming German court
decision on bailout funding on Sept. 12.  “More cash is coming into the market from investors,”
said Philip Klapwijk, the global head of metals analytics at
Thomson Reuters GFMS Ltd. “We expect there to be QE3 by
September and gold will move substantially higher. The ETF
demand has picked up and will continue to grow as prices rise.”  Soros, Paulson  Holdings in gold-backed exchange-traded products, or ETPs,
rose 0.1 percent to 2,448.64 metric tons on Aug. 24, data
tracked by Bloomberg show. Billionaire investors  George Soros 
and  John Paulson  increased their stakes in the  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD) ,
the biggest gold-backed ETP, in the second quarter, U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filings showed Aug. 14.  Central banks will purchase close to 500 tons this year
after becoming net buyers in 2009, according to the producer-
funded World Gold Council. Central banks added 254.2 tons to
their holdings in the first half, according to the council, as
countries from Russia to  South Korea  added to reserves.  “There is official interest in gold and central banks are
buying, from Russia to  Korea ,” said Jeremy East, global head of
metals trading at Standard Chartered Plc. “Central bank
purchases are not driven by price but by  asset allocation .”  Losing Steam  Gold may “lose steam quickly” if the market is
disappointed by a lack of action to stimulate economies,
Barclays Plc said in an e-mailed report today. “For gold to
extend its gains, it needs to continue to draw wider investor
support in light of the fragile physical market,” analysts
including  Suki Cooper  said in the report.  Gold imports by India, the biggest buyer, may decline by
250 tons to 350 tons this year as record prices in rupees cut
into demand, East said. Consumption rose to a record 963.1 tons
last year, driving bullion imports to the highest ever at 958
tons, according to the gold council.  “The Indian currency has weakened and could weaken
further, so demand may not come in,” East said. The  Indian
rupee  declined to a record of 57.3275 per dollar on June 22,
making imports costlier.  Bullion for October delivery gained as much as 0.5 percent
to an all-time high of 31,091 rupees ($559) per 10 grams on the
Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. today. Prices have
climbed 13 percent this year.  GFMS is owned by  Thomson Reuters  Corp. and Bloomberg
competes with Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal
information and trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  