-- Gulf Coast Gasoline Hits Four-Year High on Isaac, Amuay
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-08-27T19:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/gulf-coast-gasoline-hits-four-year-high-on-isaac-amuay.html
Spot gasoline on the U.S. Gulf Coast
rose to the highest level in almost four years as refineries
shut as Tropical Storm Isaac approached Louisiana and a fire
shut Venezuela’s largest plant.  Tropical Storm Isaac may go ashore south of  New Orleans 
early Aug. 29 as a hurricane.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  shut its
refineries in Meraux and Norco, Phillips 66 idled its Alliance
plant, Marathon Petroleum Corp. closed its Garyville facility
and Exxon Mobil began shutting the Chalmette plant near New
Orleans. Venzuela’s Amuay plant fire may boost demand for U.S.
exports to Latin America.  “There’s some caution here ahead of the storm,” said
 Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition
Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “It’s still a long way off
before it comes ashore and a lot could happen between now and
then.”  Conventional 87-octane gasoline in the Gulf jumped 18.5
cents to 32 cents a gallon over October gasoline futures on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg at 2:03 p.m. in  New York . That’s the largest premium
since Sept. 19, 2008, when the Gulf Coast was ravaged by
hurricanes Gustav and Ike.  A total of 15 percent of fuel-making capacity in the region
has been shuttered, according to Bloomberg data. About 78
percent of Gulf oil production was shut in as of 12:30 p.m. East
Coat time today, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental
enforcement reported.  ‘Orderly Shutdowns’  “If you’re short, you want to cover,” said  Andrew Lebow ,
a senior vice president at Jefferies Bache LLC in New York.
“The good news is these will be orderly shutdowns and one would
hope this would be short-term in nature.”  A  hurricane warning  was posted from Louisiana to the
 Florida panhandle . Isaac was about 280 miles (450 kilometers)
southeast of the mouth of the Mississippi River at 2 p.m. East
Coast time, with top winds of 65 miles per hour, the National
Hurricane Center in Miami said. It was moving northwest at 14
mph.  The  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port , the single largest entry
point for crude coming into the U.S., planned to suspend
offloading  oil tankers  today. Between 900,000 barrels and 1
million barrels of oil a day is offloaded at the LOOP, Barb Hestermann, a spokeswoman for the port, said yesterday.  “I’m guessing you see other refineries at minimum rates
because there’s not going to be crude up the Mississippi and the
Loop is shutting operations,” said  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  October Rollover  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in Chicago jumped to a 44-
cent premium to October futures from a 5-cent discount to
September futures last week.  About 16 cents of the increase can be accounted for by the
switch today to pricing against October futures, said Lewis Adam, president of ADMO Energy LLC, a supply consultant in
Kansas City.  He said the rest of the gain came after Marathon, which has
a refinery in Robinson, Illinois, announced it would close its
Garyville refinery in Louisiana because of the storm.  “Garyville pumps lot of barrels to Robinson for
processing,” Adam said. “I think Marathon was a big buyer up
there.”  In New York, conventional 87-octane gasoline gained 7.13
cents to trade at a 5-cent premium to September futures, the
highest level since November.  Ultra-low sulfur diesel in the  Gulf Coast  increased its
premium to futures widening 2.75 cents to 11.63 cents a gallon,
the strongest performance since Oct. 2, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  