-- Gupta Insider-Trading Sentence Is Re-Set for Oct. 17
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-27T22:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/gupta-insider-trading-sentence-is-re-set-for-oct-17.html
Ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
 Rajat Gupta ’s sentencing on securities fraud for leaking inside
information to fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam  was reset for Oct.
17, a day earlier than previously set.  Gupta, 63, formerly managing partner of McKinsey & Co., was
convicted by a federal court jury in Manhattan on June 15 of
three counts of securities fraud and one count of conspiracy.
Prosecutors said Gupta, who sat on the board of New York-based
Goldman Sachs and Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , leaked
tips he learned from board meetings to Rajaratnam, who had also
been his business partner.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who presided over the
trial, originally set Gupta’s sentencing for Oct. 18. Rakoff, in
an order made public today, said that date had been reset with
“the consent of the parties.”  Prosecutors said Gupta’s tips included information about a
$5 billion investment by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  in Goldman Sachs on Sept. 23, 2008, and on Goldman Sachs
losses in the fourth quarter of 2008. Gupta faces as long as 20
years in prison for his conviction for securities fraud while
conspiracy carries a maximum term of five years.  67 Convicted  He is most prominent of the 67 people convicted since the
nationwide crackdown by agents with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in New York and prosecutors in the office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara began five years ago. To
date, the U.S. has brought cases against 71 traders and their
sources from Wall Street to Silicon Valley. No one has won an
acquittal; six cases are pending.  Gary Naftalis , a lawyer for Gupta, said the sentencing date
was changed at Rakoff’s request.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to
comment on the rescheduling.  Rajaratnam, who co-founded Galleon Group LLC, was convicted
at trial last year and sentenced to 11 years in prison, a record
at the time for insider-trading crimes. He’s appealing the
verdict.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  