-- IBM to Buy Social-Business Company Kenexa for $1.3 Billion
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-08-27T20:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/ibm-to-buy-social-business-company-kenexa-for-about-1-3-billion.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  agreed to buy  Kenexa Corp. (KNXA)  for about $1.3 billion in cash,
adding social-networking services that help companies handle
human resources and recruiting.  IBM will pay $46 a share for the Wayne, Pennsylvania-based
company, a 42 percent premium over the stock’s closing price on
Aug. 24. The deal is expected to be completed in the fourth
quarter, IBM said today in a statement.  The purchase bolsters IBM’s business-analytics software,
which helps companies cull vast amounts of data to make
decisions and study trends. Kenexa works with more than 8,900
customers, including Starbucks Corp., General Electric Co. and
Boeing Co. Armonk, New York-based IBM  has spent  $16 billion on
30 analytics acquisitions in the past five years.  “This ties very directly into the investments we’ve made
in helping clients create enterprise social networks and how we
apply analytics,” Alistair Rennie, IBM’s general manager of
social business, said in an interview. “This idea of how you
leverage talent and bring it forward has become a significant
operational issue.”  IBM will focus on analysis of the communication patterns
using Kenexa’s systems, Rennie said. The company has been moving
into software and analytics for income growth as hardware and
services become less profitable. Kenexa’s software helps
companies recruit new workers, communicate with employees about
goals and develop succession plans.  Rival Acquisitions  The acquisition follows deals by IBM’s competitors for
human-resources software makers, including  SAP AG (SAP) ’s agreement in
December to purchase SuccessFactors Inc. for $3.4 billion and
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s $1.9 billion takeover of Taleo Corp., announced
in February.  Kenexa is unlikely to get a rival bid because of the price
IBM is paying and because there probably won’t be regulatory
delays, Bryan Schwartz, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co. in New
York, said in a note to investors.  Kenexa shares  jumped 41 percent to $45.79 at the close in
New York. They have climbed 71 percent in 2012. IBM, up 6.4
percent this year, fell 1 percent today to $195.69.  The $1.3 billion purchase price excludes Kenexa’s cash on
hand. The company had about $90 million in cash and short-term
investments at the end of the second quarter. IBM is aiming to
generate $16 billion from business analytics by 2015.  Lazard Ltd. served as Kenexa’s financial adviser, while
Pepper Hamilton LLP was its legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  