-- Libor’s Trillion-Dollar Question
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-27T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/libor-s-trillion-dollar-question.html
The global investigation into the
manipulation of Libor has so far done a good job of exposing how
bankers corrupted one of the world’s most important financial
indicators. Now authorities need to take a giant step further:
Make banks release the data needed to determine how much damage
was done and who should bear the most responsibility.  For those still not familiar with the  London  interbank
offered rate, it’s an array of benchmarks designed to provide an
objective assessment of banks’ borrowing costs -- information
that is used to set the payments on hundreds of trillions of
dollars in loans, securities and derivatives worldwide. The
rates are calculated by asking banks, every workday morning in
London, how much they would pay to borrow money in 10 currencies
and at 15 time periods, from  overnight  to  a year .  Investigators are focusing on two kinds of manipulation. In
one, bankers submitted false data to push Libor in a direction
that would benefit their own traders. In the other, bankers
intentionally lowered the reported rates, which are published
daily, to make their institutions’ financial positions look
better than they really were. In June, for example, Barclays Plc
paid about $450 million in fines after confessing that, during
the 2008 financial crisis, it  lowered its quotes  below its true
borrowing rates to keep them in line with those of other banks,
which Barclays thought were fudging even more.  Measuring Shortfall  How long the lying went on, and how systematic it was,
matters a lot. If, for example, underreporting caused Libor to
be artificially depressed by 0.1 percentage point for only a few
months, payments on more than $300 trillion in mortgages,
corporate bonds and derivatives tied to the benchmark might have
fallen short by about $75 billion or so. If the problem lasted a
few years, the shortfall could be close to $1 trillion.  Such manipulation would represent a big gift to payers of
Libor, such as financially stretched U.S. homeowners whose
interest costs on floating-rate mortgages would have been lower.
But for bond investors, municipalities,  hedge funds  and others
on the receiving end of Libor, it would mean major losses. Many
are already trying to recoup suspected underpayments through
litigation.  How much Libor was off, then, could be a trillion-dollar
question. So far, researchers have managed only partial
estimates. A 2008 Wall Street Journal  analysis  suggested that
three-month and six-month U.S. dollar Libor -- two of the most
widely used rates -- were understated by an average of about a
quarter percentage point in the first four months of 2008. A
 separate study  by economists at the  New York  Federal Reserve
used 2007 to 2009 data on interbank loans made through the Fed’s
wire-transfer system. It found a smaller average discrepancy,
but estimated that dollar Libor rates could have been
understated by more than 0.2 percentage point in the two weeks
after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008.  It’s worth noting that the pressures on banks to understate
their borrowing rates didn’t end with the darkest days of the
financial crisis. Concerns about their creditworthiness flared
up with the  European debt crisis  in 2010 and 2011. In June,
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded a number of banks that
report Libor rates on the grounds that their trading activities
could threaten their solvency. Big financial institutions
typically borrow $10 or more for every dollar in equity provided
by shareholders, so managing the market’s perceptions of their
borrowing costs is crucial to their profitability -- and at
times to their survival.  Complete Picture  To give a more complete picture of the misbehavior, and to
establish what share of the compensation burden each Libor-
reporting bank should bear, researchers need access to better
data on actual borrowing costs. If they could get records of
observable transactions, they could produce an independent
estimate of how much the banks’ Libor quotes were off on any
given day. Such an authoritative benchmark would have many
benefits: Plaintiffs, for example, could use it to reach
settlements with banks, avoiding legal wrangling that could
weigh on the financial sector for years.  Good data, though, are hard to find. The Fed hasn’t made
information from its wire-transfer system public. The Libor
panel banks, for their part, closely guard information on the
 interest rates  they pay on actual short-term loans. This is an
odd habit, given that they are supposedly publishing their
borrowing rates in great detail every day for the purpose of
calculating Libor. If they’re not lying, there should be no news
in the transactions.  It’s up to the authorities investigating Libor to break the
information blockade. In the U.S., for example, the Office of
Financial Research, set up by the Dodd-Frank financial reform
act, has the subpoena power needed to get the data and the brain
power required to crunch the numbers. Ideally, it would also
make the data public, so independent academics and journalists
could check its work.  Shedding light on the extent of Libor manipulation is
essential to restoring the market’s integrity. The point of
justice, after all, isn’t only to punish the guilty. It’s also
to establish the truth, so we can draw the right conclusions,
fix what needs fixing and move on.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on applying  Mitt Romney’s
business sense  to defense;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Jews’ “obsession”
with the Holocaust ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why we shouldn’t forget
about  Social Security’s problems ; William Pesek on  South Korea’s
presidential election ; Fouad Ajami on  Obama’s callow cruelty on
Syria  extending to Lebanon;  Stephen Smith  on the inflated  cost
of U.S. commuter trains .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 