-- Iceland to Apply New Rules Before Capital Controls Are Removed
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-08-27T20:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/iceland-to-apply-new-rules-before-capital-controls-are-removed.html
Iceland will apply “prudential
rules” to reduce risks associated with unrestricted capital
movements before the government removes  capital controls 
blocking as much as $8 billion from leaving the economy, the
 central bank  said.  “The pertinent ministries, the central bank, and the
Financial Supervisory Authority will begin to formulate such
rules in their final form, including proposing legislative
amendments where appropriate,” Reykjavik-based Sedlabanki said
in a  statement  on its website. The suggested rules “should
limit foreign exchange risk in the financial system, as well as
limiting foreign currency  liquidity risk ; furthermore, they
will, in combination, limit the banks’ potential for excessive
growth.”  Sedlabanki wants parliament to impose a financial tax that
limits capital movements and  reserve requirements  on foreign
financing. The central bank also called for rules to curb
liquidity risk with financial institutions’ foreign-currency
denominated balance sheets, and for regulations that limit on
Icelandic lenders’ ability to accept deposits from other
countries.  Iceland, whose banks defaulted on $85 billion in 2008,
completed a 33-month  International Monetary Fund  program in
August last year. The island’s approach to its rescue has led to
a “surprisingly” strong recovery, Daria V. Zakharova, the
IMF’s mission chief to the country said in an interview this
month.  Fitch Ratings  in February raised the island to investment
grade, praising its “unorthodox crisis policy.”  The country imposed capital controls in 2008 after the
krona plunged as much as 80 percent against the euro offshore.
The controls blocked as much as $8 billion in kronur assets from
leaving the economy, according to  Arion Bank hf . Iceland’s $13
billion economy will expand 2.4 percent this year, the IMF said
April 17. That compares with a 0.3 percent contraction in the
17-member euro area, the fund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 