-- Idenix Says FDA Places Hold on Hepatitis C Drug
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-08-27T20:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/idenix-drops-after-fda-places-hold-on-hepatitis-c-drug.html
Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX) , a
developer of hepatitis C drugs, said U.S. regulators delayed
study of one of its medications after a patient taking a
competing therapy died from heart failure.  The hold on clinical trials was the second this month for
Idenix drugs. They were held up after safety issues arose in
testing of a  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  hepatitis C therapy in the
same family of compounds as Idenix’s. Bristol-Myers ended
development of the drug Aug. 23 after it was linked to the death
of one patient and kidney and heart problems in others.  Idenix, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , hadn’t yet begun
testing IDX19368 in humans. A more advanced drug, IDX184, was
suspended in trials Aug. 16. The  Food and Drug Administration 
has requested additional cardiac testing be done on those
enrolled in a trial of that therapy, Idenix said today in a
statement.  “We understand the clinical hold is a precautionary
decision made by the FDA in light of the adverse events seen
with BMS-986094,” Idenix Chief Executive Officer Ron Renaud
said in the statement. There are qualities in the company’s
therapies that “favorably differentiate the toxicity profiles
from that of” Bristol-Myers’ drug, he said.  Idenix rose 2.3 percent to $6.15 at the close in New York.
The shares have declined 17 percent this year.  More than 50 patients in a trial of IDX184 have been
scheduled for echocardiograms, a heart-imaging test, and the
company said it plans to submit data to the FDA in the next few
weeks. Results have been normal for the small number of patients
tested already, Idenix said.  “I don’t think it takes both Idenix drugs off the table,
but it does slow them down,” said Brian Skorney, an analyst
with Brean Murray Carret & Co. in  New York , in a telephone
interview. He has a hold rating on Idenix shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  