-- Tiffany Jumps After Store Sales Drop Less Than Estimated
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-08-27T20:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/tiffany-cuts-full-year-profit-forecast-as-sales-growth-slows.html
Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the world’s second-
largest luxury jewelry retailer, jumped the most in a year after
reporting a drop in worldwide comparable-store sales that was
smaller than some analysts projected.  Tiffany  advanced  7.2 percent to $62.71 at the close in New
York, for the biggest gain since Aug. 26, 2011. The  shares  have
declined 5.4 percent this year.  Sales at stores open at least a year dropped 1 percent,
excluding the effect of currency exchange-rate fluctuations, the
New York-based company said in a statement today.  David Schick ,
an analyst with Stifel Financial Corp., estimated a 3 percent
decline. Comparable-store sales in  Europe  rose 2 percent, while
Schick projected a 5 percent drop.  “There were some fears among investors that the worldwide
comparable sales number could be a lot worse,” Schick, who’s
based in Baltimore, said in a telephone interview today. “The
numbers have shown some resilience in the brand.”  Schick recommends holding the shares.  Tiffany’s comparable-store sales decline was “not as bad
as feared,” Brian Nagel, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New
York, wrote today in a note. He rates the shares outperform, the
equivalent of a buy.  Sluggish economic growth, the struggling housing market and
persistent joblessness have hampered some American consumers’
purchasing power.  Forecast Reductions  Economic uncertainty prompted Tiffany to cut its annual
profit and sales forecasts today for a second time this year.
Sales have been curbed by weaker spending by Americans in their
home market, with demand fluctuating at all price points, and by
restraint among European tourists in  New York , Mark Aaron, a
company spokesman said on a conference call today.  Global net sales will increase as much as 7 percent this
year, down from a previous forecast of a maximum of 8 percent,
and an original projection of 10 percent, Tiffany said.  Tiffany said profit excluding some items in the year ending
Jan. 31 will be $3.55 to $3.70 a share, down from a May forecast
of $3.70 to $3.80 a share. Analysts projected $3.64, the average
of 24 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. In March, Tiffany
forecast profit of as much as $4.05.  Profit Gains  Net income in the three months ended July 31 increased 2
percent to $91.8 million, or 72 cents a share, from $90 million,
or 69 cents, a year earlier. Analysts projected 73 cents, the
average of 21  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue in the second quarter rose 1.6 percent to $886.6
million. The average of 19 analysts’ estimates was $890.1
million.  Sales at stores open at least a year retreated 5 percent in
the Americas, including a 9 percent drop at the jeweler’s main
store on Fifth Avenue.  Tiffany’s flagship store accounts for 8 percent of
worldwide sales, and a little more than 40 percent of that comes
from foreign tourists, Aaron said at an investor conference in
April.  Tiffany also said in a regulatory filing today that it was
discussing with Elsa Peretti a phased wind-down of sales of the
designer’s products as an alternative to buying her trademarks.
Peretti, 72, wants to end her agreement with Tiffany, which
produces 10 percent of the jewelry retailer’s sales, the company
first disclosed in May. A phased wind-down would mitigate the
impact on the company, according to the filing.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  is the world’s largest luxury
jewelry maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  