-- Lilly’s Alzheimer Drug Finding Splits Investors, Doctors
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-08-27T20:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/lilly-s-alzheimer-drug-finding-splits-investors-doctors.html
While investors supported the sliver
of promise offered when  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  said its Alzheimer’s
drug may slow progression early in the disease, doctors weren’t
as impressed, saying it could take years to find out for sure.  Lilly announced last week that its experimental treatment
solanezumab failed to improve thinking skills, memory and
function in a broad range of patients. At the same time, an
unusual reanalysis of the data found the drug may slow mental
decline in those with the mildest form of Alzheimer’s.  Investors responded on Aug. 24 by boosting Indianapolis-
based Lilly 3.4 percent in New York trading. Current patients,
though, found little solace in the result, said Samuel Gandy,
director of Mount Sinai Center for Cognitive Health in  New York .  The need to reanalyze the data “was a red flag,” Gandy
said in a telephone interview. “For the layman, this means
poking around a dataset in hand, hunting for a result that may
be statistically significant but is unlikely to be clinically
significant. So caveat emptor here.”  About 5.4 million Americans have Alzheimer’s, the most-
common form of dementia, and the number is expected to surge to
as many as 16 million by 2050 as the population ages, according
to the  Alzheimer’s Association . Drugs on the market now address
only the symptoms, not the underlying cause, and none has been
shown to slow progression of the disease.  That makes the finding on solanezumab particularly crucial,
doctors said, if it can be duplicated by further research.  Brain Target  Solanezumab attaches to a protein called beta amyloid
before it builds up in the brains of patients, forming clumps
that many doctors believe to be the cause of Alzheimer’s.
Whether this change makes a difference is a question still
largely unanswered, said  David Knopman , a neurologist at the
 Mayo Clinic  in Rochester, Minnesota, and head of the data safety
monitoring board for the solanezumab trials.  To find out for sure, Lilly probably will have to set up
new research focusing only on mildly impaired patients.  “I take care of people with  Alzheimer’s disease  who
desperately want to see something positive here,” Knopman said
in a telephone interview. “For my patients right now,
absolutely it won’t be available commercially. I don’t want them
thinking this is something being withheld by a ‘nasty’  Food and
Drug Administration , or that the scientists are being too
cautious. This was a negative study.”  Added trials could run as long as three years and cost
several million dollars, said  R. Scott Turner , director of the
Memory Disorders Program at  Georgetown University  in  Washington .  ‘Continue to Invest’  “On the first pass it’s a big disappointment that this was
negative,” he said. ‘But there were hints of effectiveness and
it was relatively safe. I don’t think it’s worth completely
abandoning. I hope they would continue to invest in the drug and
do the next trial.”  Lilly rose 1.7 percent to $44.59 at the close of New York
trading. The shares gained 25 percent in the past 12 months.  Company officials declined to say whether they are planning
a new study focusing on patients with the mildest form of
Alzheimer’s.  Lilly will present the current results, including the
reanalyzed portion, to regulators worldwide and discuss what
steps should be taken next, said Dave Ricks, the company’s
senior vice president, in a conference call. He wouldn’t rule
out anything, including filing for regulatory approval with the
current results. The results also will be presented at two
medical meetings in October, Lilly officials said.  When asked about additional solanezumab trials, his
response was to point out that Lilly has other Alzheimer’s
disease drugs in development, along with 11 unrelated medicines
that are in the last of three stages of testing usually required
for U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval.  ‘Glimmer of Hope’  J. Anthony Ware, group vice president of Lilly Bio-
Medicines Product Development, said in a conference call that
company officials were excited rather than surprised by the
“glimmer of hope” seen in the secondary analysis.  The studies that failed to meet their goals initially are
continuing, he said, with all patients now receiving the drug.
That effort may yield additional information about the drug by
2014,  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in New York, wrote in an Aug. 22 note to investors.  “At this point, theoretically all possibilities are still
on the table,” including Lilly seeking approval for its drug
without added testing, he said.  ‘Unmet Need’  The argument for such a move, would be “the large unmet
medical need in patients with Alzheimer’s disease and the
generally acceptable safety profile,” Anderson wrote.  The  studies , dubbed Expedition 1 and Expedition 2, included
about 2,000 patients, roughly two-thirds with mild disease and
one-third with moderate disease.  The results of Expedition 1 came in first, with the
medicine failing to slow mental and functional decline across
all 1,000 patients. A planned analysis of just patients with
mild disease showed those getting solanezumab were significantly
less likely to worsen, the company said in its statement. After
getting those results, Lilly altered the statistical plan for
Expedition 2, which was still under way, to look only at
cognition in those with mild disease.  The second trial didn’t show a significant benefit in
patients with mild disease. When the results of the two studies
were added together, giving more statistical power, there was a
significant decline in the progression of the disease for mild
patients alone and a combination of mild and moderate patients,
the company said. The only group that didn’t benefit was
patients with moderate disease.  Early Testing  While the Lilly findings probably won’t help current
patients, success in patients with a mild form of the disease
suggests that early testing for Alzheimer’s could one day make a
big difference, said  Ronald Petersen , a neurologist at the Mayo
Clinic in Rochester,  Minnesota .  “It does raise the million dollar question of are we still
trying to treat these patients too late in the disease
process,” said Petersen, who wasn’t involved in the studies and
has no financial connection to Lilly. “It’s a mild clinical
effect. At this stage of the disease, maybe that’s all we can
expect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  