-- ImmunoGen Rises on Partner Roche’s Results: Boston Mover
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-08-27T20:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/immunogen-rises-on-partner-roche-s-results-boston-mover.html
ImmunoGen Inc. (IMGN)  climbed 5.6 percent
after partner  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  said its experimental  breast
cancer  drug significantly extended the lives of patients when
compared with standard therapy.  ImmunoGen, a biotechnology company that develops anticancer
products, increased to $14.62 at 4 p.m.  New York  time. The
Waltham, Massachusetts-based company had risen 32 percent in the
12 months before today.  The treatment, dubbed T-DM1, for people with HER2-positive
metastatic breast cancer, combines Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche’s Herceptin with ImmunoGen’s technology that helps the
treatment carry chemotherapy directly into malignant cells while
bypassing healthy ones. The data will be presented at a future
medical meeting, Roche said in a statement today.  “The overall survival data basically just wraps everything
up very nicely,” Adnan Butt, an analyst with RBC Capital
Markets in San Francisco, said in a telephone interview. “The
data is a very big validation for their technology.”  The study compared T-DM1 to  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Tykerb
approved in 2007 and Genentech’s Xeloda, an oral chemotherapy
treatment approved in 1998.  $5 Billion  The treatment may generate more than $5 billion in peak
sales, Butt said. ImmunoGen is due royalty payments once the
drug reaches the market, he said.  Roche said it submitted an application to the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration for review. Butt expects FDA clearance by
February at the latest.  ImmunoGen would receive $10.5 million upon U.S. approval
and $5 million if the European Medicines Agency clears the drug,
Barbara Yates, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Roche presented trial results in June showing T-DM1 delayed
tumors longer and with fewer side effects than established
therapy. Roche plans to offer the treatment to patients, under
certain circumstances, who can’t participate in a trial.  “We look forward to working with regulatory authorities in
the hope of bringing another potential treatment option to
people with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer,”  Hal Barron , chief medical officer and head of global product
development for Roche’s Genentech unit, said in a statement
today.  There are about 2.5 million breast cancer survivors in the
U.S. and about 227,000 new cases in women estimated this year,
according to the  American Cancer Society .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  