-- In South Korea, It’s Ross Perot vs. Queen Elizabeth I
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-08-27T21:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/in-south-korea-it-s-ross-perot-vs-queen-elizabeth-i.html
South Koreans may face a fascinating
choice come December’s presidential election: Elizabeth I or
 Ross Perot ?  Park Geun Hye, the unmarried ruling-party candidate, touts
the virgin queen who ruled  England  from 1558 to 1603 as a role
model. Ahn Cheol Soo is the businessman most Koreans want to
take her on. He’s  Korea ’s answer to Perot, the billionaire who
20 years ago ran as America’s most successful modern third-party
candidate.  So far, Ahn hasn’t said if he will run. Should he do so, he
could stand as an independent or as part of Korea’s opposition
party. Either way, his involvement may leave  Asia ’s fourth-
biggest  economy  better off. Ahn has talked about narrowing the
 income gap , reining in family-owned conglomerates known as
chaebol, and economic engagement with  North Korea . Even if he
doesn’t run, he is already altering the dynamics of the election
in the same vein as Perot.  For all his erratic behavior and idiosyncrasies, Perot
fired up Americans disenchanted with the two major parties in
1992. Perot surged in polls at a time of legislative gridlock
and distraction. While he finished third, Perot forced incumbent
 George H.W. Bush  and the winner,  Bill Clinton , to address
prickly fiscal and trade matters they might have preferred to
ignore.  Forsaking Koreans  Ahn’s criticism rests on the premise that Korea’s two main
parties are ignoring the interests of the nation’s 50 million
people. The gap between rich and poor is widening;
competitiveness has waned; the population is aging; and North
Korea’s  Kim Dynasty  poses a constant threat.  Part of Ahn’s appeal is his quirky pedigree. He’s a
physician-turned-technology-guru-turned-academic; Ahn, 50, is
now the dean of Seoul National University’s  Graduate School of
Convergence Science and Technology . His eclecticism,
philanthropy and success as founder of software firm Ahnlab Inc.
have made him a draw as a motivational author and speaker. What
he has to say might rouse a nation that needs a collective pick-
me-up.  Park, 60, is a veteran legislator and inspiration in her
own right. She would be the first female leader in a nation
where sexism is part of the political and business landscapes.
Park is the daughter of Park Chung Hee, who ruled Korea from
1961 until his assassination in 1979. Like Elizabeth I, Park
Geun Hye lost her parents to tragedy.  Many credit Park Chung Hee with reviving the South’s
 economy  after the devastation of the  Korean War . That, for some
Koreans, is just the problem. Park’s policies empowered a
handful of politically connected conglomerates such as Samsung
Electronics Co., LG Corp. and Hyundai Motor Co. to form the core
of the economy. Their ambition and hard work transformed the
nation into the export power it is today. The sitting president,
 Lee Myung Bak , is enmeshed in that world, serving as head of
several Hyundai units from 1977 to 1992.  These same family-controlled businesses that did so much to
help Korea get where it is today, now may be holding it back.
Their dominance stymies innovation and fosters wariness of the
kind of startup community that gives birth to small and medium-
sized enterprises. Park, whose father established this
arrangement, would be replacing Lee, a creature of the chaebol
system who has presided over rising youth unemployment and
waning national confidence. (He is constitutionally barred from
running run again.)  Ahn, for better or worse, is coming from a different place.
He calls for a restoration of “welfare, justice and peace” and
advocates banning cross-shareholdings and investments in
subsidiaries among the family conglomerates. He also has a more
moderate stance on North Korea. That includes expanding a joint
economic zone in Gaeseong, north of the border, and resuming
tours of North Korea’s  Mount Geumgang .  North Korea  Lee’s administration, let’s face it, has achieved zero on
North Korea. His government doesn’t seem to realize that Kim Jong Un, the third in a dynasty of communist dictators in the
North, may be different from his father, who died in December.
Where has refusing to negotiate with North Korea’s leaders
gotten the world?  It is true that Ahn has no legislative experience. As
president, he might be hard-pressed to get big things done. Yet
Ahn’s outsider status may be an advantage, distancing him from
what he calls the “outdated” practices of Korea’s dominant
parties.  Even if Park wins four months from now, Korea will be
better off for Ahn’s participation. He is putting the biggest
challenges up for discussion: Korea’s role in an Asia torn apart
by territorial disputes; its ability to prosper in the space
between wealthy  Japan  and low-cost  China ; why rapid economic
growth hasn’t made South Koreans any happier.  It takes more than one candidate to alter a nation’s
political trajectory. Perot’s obsession with the  U.S. budget
deficit  was forgotten in the 2000s amid tax cuts, wars and
financial crises.  Yet  South Korea  shows how even a fairly healthy democracy
can get so bogged down in party infighting that the leadership
forgets whom they are fighting for: the people and anything, or
anyone, who gets to the root of the nation’s malaise.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on applying  Mitt Romney’s
business sense  to defense and on  Libor-rigging ;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on  Jews’ “obsession” with the Holocaust ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why
we shouldn’t forget about  Social Security’s problems ; Fouad
Ajami on  Obama’s callow cruelty on Syria  extending to Lebanon;
 Stephen Smith  on the inflated  cost of U.S. commuter trains   To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  