-- Indonesia Stock Trading Delayed as Members Unable to Connect
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   G r e g   A h l s t r a n d
-- 2012-08-27T08:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/indonesian-stock-trading-delayed-as-members-unable-to-connect.html
The Indonesian stock  exchange 
delayed trading after almost a third of its members failed to
connect to the bourse’s system. Trading resumed about 1:30 p.m.
according to Samsul Hidayat, the bourse’s director of trading
and membership.  Only 84 of 114 bourse members were able to connect this
morning, Uriep Budhi Prasetyo, director of surveillance and
compliance, said by phone today. Bourse members have a seat on
the exchange and can trade directly. Hidayat said by phone that
he was in a meeting with his team to review what happened. The
benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  rose less than 0.1 percent to
4,147.33 as of 3:03 p.m. local time.  The exchange experienced an hour-long disruption in April
2009 when a cable used for sending transaction data
malfunctioned after a buy order overran its capacity, the bourse
said at the time. In October 2008, the bourse halted trading for
three days following a 10 percent plunge in the key  stock index .  “It creates a reputation problem,” Siswa Rizali, who
helps manage about $367 million at PT Andalan Artha Advisindo
Sekuritas, said by phone from Jakarta. “It happened before. The
stock exchange has to convince people that they have the
capability to provide smooth transactions.”  The disruption won’t deter foreign investors lured by the
 Indonesia ’s economic growth, Samsung Asset Management Co.’s  Alan Richardson  said. Overseas funds bought a net $935.2 million of
Indonesian equities this year to Aug. 24, on course for three
straight years of purchases, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Foreign investors sold $21.3 million of shares on Aug. 24,
snapping nine days of buying, the data showed.  Attractive Growth  “It’s a temporary glitch,” Richardson, a Singapore-based
 fund manager  who helps oversee $82 billion, said by phone. “It
won’t scare foreign investors away. Investors are attracted by 6
percent to 7 percent gross domestic product growth which is
expected to sustain next year, and 20 percent corporate earnings
growth.”  The Jakarta Composite Index has tripled since the end of
2008, driven by the nation’s  economic  prospects. The stock gauge
gained 8.4 percent this year, compared with the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index’s 5 increase. The Indonesian index trades for 14.9
times  estimated profit , compared with its three-year average of
13.6, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The government plans to increase  capital spending  by 15
percent next year to boost infrastructure and support growth,
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said in his annual budget
address on Aug. 16. Economic growth is forecast to accelerate to
6.8 percent in 2013 from an estimated 6.3 percent to 6.5 percent
this year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Ahlstrand in Jakarta at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at  dboey@bloomberg.net  