-- Investors Prefer Options to Structured Notes Amid Low Volatility
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-08-27T14:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/investors-prefer-options-to-structured-notes-amid-low-volatility.html
Investors are starting to buy
options and swaps tied to stocks instead of structured notes
that use the derivatives as declining volatility makes the
contracts a more attractive purchase.  U.S. sales of equity-linked notes and reverse convertibles,
high-yielding bank bonds that convert into stock if a company’s
share price plunges, have dropped 16 percent this year to $17
billion.  Fund managers say they’d rather buy directly in the options
market, where prices have decreased, than pay a premium for the
notes. Volatility, as measured by the Chicago Board of Options
Exchange, known as the  VIX (VIX) , has fallen 31 percent to 16.21 this
year. When price swings are expected to be smaller, options to
buy and sell stocks at set prices can be purchased more cheaply.  “Notes are great because they’re efficient, but if the
returns aren’t there, we have to look elsewhere to try to
achieve that,” John Farrall, director of derivatives strategy
at PNC Wealth Management in  Cleveland , said in a telephone
interview. The fund has $112 billion in assets under management.  Low volatility also makes it harder for issuers to create
certain types of equity-linked notes with enticing terms such as
large coupons or big cushions against losses. At the same time,
fees on U.S. products tied to stocks have been as high as  7.85
percent this year .  “With volatility as low as it is, those associated fees
become a bigger drag on performance,” said Max Breier, senior
volatility trader at BMO Capital Markets Corp. in  New York .  Counterparty Risk  Moving away from structured notes also reduces counterparty
risk, said Jerry Miccolis, chief investment officer of Brinton
Eaton Associates Inc. in Madison,  New Jersey . There’s too great
a chance that the banks guaranteeing payment on the notes could
fail, he said.  “We’ve been replacing structured notes with other vehicles
over the last twelve months,” he said in a telephone interview.
Brinton Eaton bought swaps with a face value of $80 million to
hedge its investments, and didn’t have to pay any upfront costs,
he said.  Accuvest Global Advisors likes options after buying two
structured notes from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. that plunged
in value after the company declared bankruptcy, said David Garff, the company’s president and chief investment officer.  “The bottom line for us on structured notes vs. options is
that options are more simple vehicles that don’t imply the same
level of credit risk that structured notes do,” he said in an
e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 