-- Ivi TV Loses Bid to Overturn Court-Ordered Shutdown
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-08-27T19:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/ivi-tv-loses-bid-to-overturn-court-ordered-shutdown.html
Ivi Inc.  lost its bid to overturn a
court-ordered shutdown of its business of capturing over-the-air
television signals and transmitting them to online subscribers.  A lower-court judge was correct in granting TV broadcasters
such as  CBS Corp. (CBS)  a preliminary order last year that put Ivi out
of business, a panel of federal appeals judges ruled today in
 New York .  “The district court did not abuse its discretion in
finding that plaintiffs were likely to succeed on the merits of
the case,” the judges said.  TV, film and sports companies including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
ABC,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox sued Seattle-based
Ivi and its founder, Todd Weaver, in September 2010. The
broadcasters said capturing TV signals in cities including New
York and Los Angeles and retransmitting them to Ivi’s
subscribers constituted copyright infringement.  U.S. District Judge Naomi Buchwald granted the preliminary
injunction in February 2011. She said the TV companies showed
they probably will win the suit. Oral arguments in the appeal
were heard in May.  “We’re gratified with the court’s decision,”  Dennis Wharton , a spokesman for the  National Association of
Broadcasters , said in a phone interview. “This sends a strong
signal that copyrighted material on the broadcast airwaves
deserves protection.”  Not Final  “This is not the final chapter to this story,” Hal
Bringman, a spokesman for Ivi, said in an e-mail.  Ivi argued that under Section 111 of the U.S. Copyright Act
it qualifies as a cable TV provider and thus is entitled to a
license from the  U.S. Federal Communications Commission  to
retransmit broadcast signals. It also said the networks and TV
stations hadn’t proved they were harmed by the service.  “The Copyright Office has consistently concluded that
Internet retransmission services are not cable systems and do
not qualify for  Section 111  compulsory licenses,” the judges
said in their opinion. “The Copyright Office’s position is
reasonable and persuasive.”  The appeals judges also said the district court was correct
in finding that the broadcasters would be harmed without a
preliminary injunction.  Ad Revenue  “Ivi’s live retransmission of plaintiffs’ copyrighted
programming over the Internet would substantially diminish the
value of the programming,” the judges wrote. Advertising
revenue might decline, they said.  Other plaintiffs include Twentieth Century Fox Film, WPIX
Inc., WNET.org,  Major League Baseball  and Telemundo Network
Group.  This year the networks sued New York-based Aereo Inc.,
which also captures over-the-air TV signals and retransmits them
to subscribers online. In July, U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan refused to grant the networks’ motion for a preliminary
injunction that would have shut down the service.  The appeals case is WPIX v. Ivi, 11-0788,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-court case
is WPIX v. Ivi, 1:10-cv-07415, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  