-- Japan Contraction Risk Rises on Faltering Global Demand: Economy
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-08-27T08:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/japan-contraction-risk-rises-on-faltering-global-demand-economy.html
     Aug. 27 (Bloomberg) --  Japan ’s risk of an economic
contraction this quarter has increased as faltering demand from
 Europe  to  China  drags down exports, strengthening the case for
more government measures to support growth.  JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. forecasts a 0.3 percent
annualized decline in gross domestic product in the three months
through September after previously seeing 1 percent growth. BNP
Paribas SA estimates a 0.9 percent fall after earlier predicting
no change.  China’s failure to secure an economic rebound is adding to
austerity measures in Europe and unemployment in the U.S. in
limiting prospects for Japanese trade and growth. Pressure may
build for an extra government budget and additional stimulus
from the  Bank of Japan  as subsidies for purchases of fuel-
efficient cars wind down, damping  consumer spending .  “We’ve revised down our forecast because the global
economy is looking weaker than we anticipated,” said  Ryutaro Kono , chief Japan economist at BNP and a former government
nominee for the central bank board. “We expected a gradual
rebound for the emerging economies but the recent data aren’t
signaling it. Europe continues to slump and exports to the U.S.
also are slowing.”  Japan will downgrade its assessment of the domestic economy
for the first time in 10 months in a report to the cabinet
tomorrow, according to the Nikkei newspaper. The nation had a
wider-than-estimated trade  deficit  in July as  shipments  to the
European Union fell 25 percent from a year earlier and those to
China slid 12 percent.  Stocks, Yen  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent as of 5:36
p.m. in Tokyo after Chinese firms reported profit declines.  “Chronic” upward pressure on the yen is placing downward
pressure on Japan’s economy, central bank Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said Aug. 24. Gains in the currency erode the sales
and profits of exporters such as  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  The yen traded
at 78.71 per dollar as of 5:37 p.m. in Tokyo.  For now, the economists forecasting a contraction this
quarter are in a minority. The median of 27 forecasts compiled
by  Bloomberg News  this month was for a 1 percent expansion.
Besides BNP and JPMorgan Securities Japan, those now seeing a
decline include Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse
Group AG. Growth was 1.4 percent in the second quarter.  Mitsubishi Research Institute, the best forecaster of
Japan’s GDP in the past two years according to Bloomberg data,
sees a 0.2 percent expansion in the third quarter and a 0.7
percent gain in the fourth quarter, with earthquake
reconstruction work playing a role.  Avoiding Recession  “Exports are slowing more than we thought,” said Akihiro
Morishige, an economist at Mitsubishi Research. “However, Japan
will probably be able to avoid a recession because the
reconstruction demand continues to support the recovery.”  Second-quarter figures for gross domestic product showed
that consumption rose the least since households cut spending in
the immediate aftermath of the March 2011 earthquake.  “Without a smooth baton pass from domestic demand to
external demand, the Japanese economy may get into serious
trouble,” said  Masamichi Adachi , a senior economist at JPMorgan
Securities in Tokyo and a former central bank official. “There
is high possibility that not only the  Bank of Japan (8301)  but also the
government will need to introduce stimulus measures.”  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said his nation needs to do more
to support exports, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
Aug. 25. China’s industrial companies’ profits dropped for a
fourth month in July, the government said today. German business
confidence fell for a fourth month in August, a report showed
today, and South Korean consumer sentiment slipped to the lowest
level in seven months.  Export Weakness  Weakness in Chinese manufacturing has dashed hopes for a
quick, strong recovery in Japan’s exports in coming months,
Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at  JPMorgan Securities  Japan Co.
in Tokyo and a former BOJ official, wrote in a report. “The
odds are rising that real exports will contract in the third
quarter.”  Meanwhile, most of the 300 billion yen ($3.8 billion)
budgeted by the government for car subsidies has been spent.  “Car sales will likely decline as the boosts from the
government’s subsidy program fade out,” said Takashi Shiono, an
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo. “The adjustments
in consumption will be the biggest drag on Japan’s economy” in
the third and fourth quarters, Shiono said.  Shiono said a 2 trillion yen extra budget is possible by
year end, including measures to spur investment in green
technology and agriculture, and subsidies for environmentally-
friendly housing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  