-- Julius Baer Says Employee Stole German Offshore Client Data
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-08-27T17:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/julius-baer-says-employee-stole-data-on-german-offshore-clients.html
Julius Baer  Group Ltd., the Swiss
wealth manager established in 1890, is contacting German
customers after an employee stole information on their offshore
bank accounts in Switzerland.  “We launched an internal investigation and we discovered a
case of data abuse,” Jan Vonder Muehll, a spokesman for the
Zurich-based bank, said today by phone. “We are in contact with
potentially affected clients.”  The suspected data thief was fired by the company and
arrested, according to Vonder Muehll, who declined to give
further details of the theft. SonntagsZeitung reported the
information theft yesterday, citing an interview with Julius
Baer Chief Executive Officer Boris Collardi.  U.S. and European authorities are analyzing information
from thieves, whistle-blowers and client disclosures to probe
the alleged role of Swiss banks in fostering  tax evasion  by
wealthy customers. North-Rhine Westphalia, a state run by
Germany’s  Social Democratic Party , has regularly been the
subject of reports it bought CDs with stolen Swiss bank account
information on rich Germans.  “These presumed data purchases are making Germans with
untaxed Swiss accounts more nervous and a voluntary disclosure
is usually the cheapest way to resolve the situation,” said
Gerd Kostrzewa, a lawyer working in Dusseldorf and Zurich for
Heuking Kuehn Lueer Wojtek. “North-Rhine Westphalia will keep
buying data and increase its prosecution efforts.”  Jail Threat  Julius Baer said Aug. 22 it had contacted some German
clients because of speculation over data theft and the
acquisition of CDs by German authorities.  Switzerland’s Office of the Attorney General is
investigating the  data theft ,     Jacqueline Buhlmann, a spokeswoman
for the office, said in an e-mailed statement. The suspected
data thief is still being detained, she said.  Zurich’s police department declined to confirm whether it
was involved in the matter. Swiss secrecy laws threaten bank
employees with a jail term if they divulge client information.  Julius Baer rose 1.1 percent to 32.04 Swiss francs in
Zurich trading, paring this year’s decline to 13 percent and
giving the bank a market value of 6.29 billion francs ($6.6
billion).  Tax authorities have increasingly been offered secret bank
information since Germany in 2009 prosecuted tax evaders,
including former  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  Chief Executive Officer Klaus Zumwinkel, using the information bought from a former computer
consultant at LGT, owned by Liechtenstein’s princely family.  Customer Data  UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, and Coutts, a
subsidiary of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, have both said
in response to German media reports over the summer they haven’t
found evidence of staff stealing customer data.  Merrill Lynch Bank Suisse SA has also investigated the
possibility of data theft, said Valerie Bastardoz, a Geneva-
based spokeswoman, who declined to comment on the outcome of the
inquiry. Julius Baer agreed two weeks ago to buy Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch wealth management units outside the U.S.
for about 860 million francs.  Baer has opened offices in Munich, Wurzburg and Kiel in the
past three years as it tries to retain offshore clients
repatriating money to  Germany . While the onshore business, which
also has offices in Dusseldorf, Hamburg, Stuttgart and
 Frankfurt , attracted inflows in the first half of this year, it
wasn’t profitable, Baer said last month.  Swiss Haven  “Most Julius Baer clients I’ve seen have kept their
offshore accounts after disclosing their affairs to the
authorities,” Kostrzewa said. “There’s still a demand for
banking in the Swiss haven given the level of uncertainty in the
euro region.”  Julius Baer agreed last year with German authorities to pay
50 million euros ($63 million) to end an investigation over
undeclared client assets in a separate case of data theft.  Rudolf Elmer, who worked for Baer’s Cayman Islands unit
until December 2002, handed over data on about 2,000 cross-
border accounts to WikiLeaks’ founder Julian Assange last year.
Elmer was later detained by Swiss prosecutors investigating
whether he broke banking secrecy laws.  Julius Baer is one of 11 Swiss financial firms under
investigation for allegedly helping Americans hide money from
the  Internal Revenue Service  and expects to pay a fine to the
U.S. authorities as part of a settlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  