-- New York Can’t Escape Corruption as Senator Huntley Indicted
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-08-27T19:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/n-y-can-t-escape-corruption-as-senator-says-she-ll-be-arrested.html
New York’s Legislature is once again
being dogged by the corruption that has marred its image for
decades.  On Aug. 24, Assemblyman Vito Lopez, a Brooklyn Democrat,
was stripped of his committee chairmanship when an ethics
committee determined he sexually harassed two staff members, and
yesterday Governor  Andrew Cuomo  called for him to resign if the
allegations are true. Today, Senator Shirley Huntley, a Queens
Democrat whose nonprofit has been under state investigation, was
indicted on charges of conspiracy, tampering with evidence and
falsifying business records.  “I want my day in court,” Huntley said at a press
conference in front of her home in  Jamaica , Queens on Aug. 25.
“I don’t know the charges. I have no idea what this is about.”  Cuomo has built a reputation for getting things done in
 Albany . Where perennial gridlock has stifled previous governors,
Cuomo has pushed through a divided Legislature a bill legalizing
same-sex marriage and the first consecutive on-time budgets
since 2006. Still, the latest allegations of wrongdoing by
lawmakers shows that the 54-year-old Democrat has more work to
do when it comes to cleaning up the scandal-plagued capital.  In December, two people associated with Parent Workshop
Inc., a nonprofit Huntley started and to which she directed
$30,000 in state funds, were accused of stealing the cash by  New
York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, a Democrat. Two others
were accused of covering it up.  Seafood Platter  Investigating the theft of state funds through a nonprofit
is familiar ground for prosecutors in New York. This year,
former Senate Majority Leader Pedro Espada Jr., a Democrat, was
convicted of embezzling $448,000 from a nonprofit health care
network he founded. The funds were used on lobster dinners,
theater tickets and spa treatments, prosecutors said.  Another former Senate majority leader, Joseph Bruno, a
Republican, was charged this year by federal prosecutors,
accused of taking bribes and pleaded not guilty. Senator Carl Kruger, a Democrat, was sentenced to seven years in
prison this year for taking payoffs.  Alan Hevesi , a Democrat who as comptroller was the sole
trustee of the state’s pension fund, pleaded guilty in October
2010 to approving a $250 million pension investment in exchange
for a $1 million kickback. He had resigned in 2006 as part of a
separate plea deal struck after he assigned a state employee to
be the chauffeur for his ailing wife.  Cleaning Up  In response to the corruption, Cuomo pushed through the
Legislature last year a package of bills meant to tighten ethics
controls in part by creating a new commission to investigate
allegations.  The Joint Commission on Public Ethics began its work in
December. This month, Ravi Batra, a Brooklyn lawyer appointed to
the body by  Senate Democrats , threatened to resign after the
commission approved a rule that would require lobbying groups to
disclose donors only as of July 1. He said it should have
required groups like the Committee to Save New York, which runs
campaign-style advertisements backing Cuomo’s initiatives, to
divulge their donors from the time the commission was created in
June 2011.  Schneiderman and Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , a Democrat,
are targeting elected officials who use nonprofits to steal
public funds through a joint public integrity initiative they
started last year. Since 1999, lawmakers have directed more than
$900 million in state funds to 20,000 nonprofit entities,
Schneiderman has said.  Bearing Fruit  It was Schneiderman and DiNapoli’s initiative that led to
the indictment of Huntley’s nonprofit workers in December. The
organization was created to help parents navigate the New York
City school system, a job Schneiderman has said was never done.
The four aides accused have pleaded not guilty.  Huntley, first elected in 2006, is in the midst of a
primary battle and said at her press conference that she won’t
be stepping down.  “Although our office cannot comment on an ongoing matter,
we are aware of the comments made by Senator Huntley,” James
Freedland, a Schneiderman spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “The appropriate forum in which to respond
to the Senator is a court of law, where the Attorney General
will prove all facts according to the rules of evidence. Those
facts will speak for themselves.”  Accusations of sexual impropriety are nothing new for New
York. Democratic Governor  Eliot Spitzer  resigned in 2008 amid
allegations that he was a customer of a prostitution ring.  Lopez is accused by two female staff members of
“pervasive, unwelcome verbal conduct,” according to a letter
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, sent to
Lopez last week notifying Lopez that he had lost his job as head
of the housing committee.  Intolerable Acts  Lopez also is accused of putting his hand on an aide’s leg.
When she removed it, he placed his hand between her upper thighs
and moved it “as far up between her legs as you could go,” the
letter said. In another incident, he required an aide to take a
trip with him to  Atlantic City  in July. Once there he tried to
kiss her and she had to struggle to fend him off, the letter
said. On the drive back, he put his hand between her legs, it
said.  “Sexual harassment at the workplace cannot be tolerated in
any shape or form,”  Josh Vlasto , a Cuomo spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “These are serious allegations
and if true, the Governor believes he should resign.”  Lopez told the New York Daily News last week he won’t leave
office and said the accusations weren’t true. He didn’t return
phone calls yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  