-- Nautilus Seeks Partner for Undersea Mining
-- B y   A o y o n   A s h r a f   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-08-28T20:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/nautilus-seeks-partner-for-undersea-mining-corporate-canada.html
Nautilus Minerals Inc. (NUS) , seeking to
be the first large-scale miner of copper and gold from the ocean
floor, is in talks with potential partners to sell a stake in
the project off the coast of Papua New Guinea.  Nautilus may sell shares to help raise $100 million if it
can’t find a partner for the project 1,600 meters (5,250 feet)
deep in the Bismarck Sea, where the Toronto-based company plans
to start production in 2014, said Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Rogers.  “We’ve had discussions and continue discussions with a
number of parties,” Rogers said in a telephone interview from
 Brisbane ,  Australia . “There are a lot of people interested in
what we are doing, interested in this potential new frontier for
the metals sector.”  Nautilus is exploring underwater for metals as rising
demand in the past 10 years pushed up prices, while conventional
miners battle increasing costs. The average industry cost to
produce a pound of copper climbed 30 percent to $1.30 last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Land-based grades are getting thinner, costs are
obviously going up as a result of that, and of course we are now
having to push into more pristine wilderness areas to find these
metals,” Rogers said. “There are some benefits offered up by
looking at the oceans as a potential source of minerals in the
future.”  Vessel Program  Nautilus’s biggest shareholders are Moscow-based
Metalloinvest Holding Ltd., which owned 21 percent of the
company’s shares as of May 1, London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,
and MB Holding Company LLC, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The $100 million figure doesn’t include the funds that
Nautilus still needs to pay for the vessel that will be used at
the project, Solwara 1. The company said on June 1 that there
may be a delay in finalizing the financing amid tighter banking
rules in  Europe  and a “depressed” shipping market.  Germany ’s
Harren & Partner is building the vessel and will own 50.01
percent after it’s delivered.  “We still have to get our vessel program back on track,
but we have a way of doing that, we’re not uncomfortable with
that situation,” Rogers said in the Aug. 24 interview. The
company may arrange a type of ship mortgage, he said.  Nautilus also is seeking an “amicable” solution before
full arbitration begins in a dispute with the  Papua New Guinea 
government, which owns 30 percent of the project, Rogers said.  Government Stake  The government agreed in March 2011 to exercise an option
to buy a 30 percent stake in Solwara 1. The pact included an
agreement that Papua New Guinea pay 30 percent of the funds
Nautilus had already spent, as well as its share of development
costs going forward.  Nautilus said June 1 the government asserted the company
had not met certain obligations required for the March 2011
agreement to be completed, and an arbitrator in the dispute was
named last month.  The company “will only determine its precise additional
funding requirements when it has finalized details of the vessel
financing and secures a resolution to the current dispute with
the PNG government,” it said today in a statement.  Nautilus fell 3.3 percent to C$1.19 at the close in
Toronto, bringing its  decline  this year to 34 percent.  Rogers said in the interview he’s still hoping to reach an
agreement with the government before the arbitration begins.  ‘Purely Commercial’  “We’ve had representation in PNG for the last few weeks
and we’re doing everything we can to resolve this amicably with
the state,” he said.  Rogers declined to comment on the specifics of the dispute,
other that the disagreement is “purely commercial.” The
arbitration process may last about three to four months, Rogers
said.  Nautilus was awarded the world’s first deep-sea mining
lease by the government of Papua New Guinea in January 2011. The
company is developing a production system using technology
adapted from the offshore oil and gas industry. It will cut and
gather ore from the sea floor and pump it to the vessel, where
it will be processed and transferred to barges for transport and
further processing.  The company already is building the seafloor production
equipment, which was about 51 percent complete at the end of
June, Nautilus said in the statement.  Likely Partners  Chinese copper smelter operators are probably the most
likely partners for Nautilus,  Raymond Goldie , a Toronto-based
analyst at Salman Partners Inc., said yesterday in a phone
interview. Nautilus said April 23 it agreed to sell 1.1 million
tons a year of materials from Solwara 1 for three years to
China’s  Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. (000630)   “It most likely would be someone that owns a copper
smelter that’s getting hungry for feedstock, and the usual
suspects in that area are the Chinese,” Goldie said. “Perhaps
Tongling or a similar company might like to buy part of the
project, as well as agreeing to buy product from them.”  Nautilus had $87.1 million in cash as of June 30 and raised
C$34 million ($34.4 million) in an equity offering this month.
The total capital cost of the Solwara 1 project, excluding the
vessel, is expected to be $407 million, Rogers said.  Nautilus’s future financing needs will depend on whether or
not the Papua New Guinea government pays its share of the costs
under the March 2011 agreement, Goldie said.  The company has enough cash to continue work on the project
for now, Rogers said.  “We have a good solid cash position today to allow us to
continue with the current burn rate and the current progress
rate on the project,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoyon Ashraf in Toronto at 
 aashraf7@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  