-- New York State Senator Huntley Indicted After Probe
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-27T22:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/new-york-state-senator-huntley-indicted-after-probe.html
New York  state Senator Shirley Huntley, a Queens Democrat whose nonprofit group has been under
state investigation, was indicted on charges of conspiracy,
tampering with evidence and falsifying business records.  Parent Workshop Inc., an organization founded by the
senator, funneled public money to an aide and to Huntley’s
niece, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office said
today in a statement. The aide and the niece submitted
fraudulent documents to the state to obtain public money from a
legislative member item sponsored by Huntley, and pocketed about
$30,000, according to the statement.  “The investigation revealed that, after learning of the
probe, Senator Huntley personally wrote a template for a false,
backdated letter designed to fool investigators into believing
that the Parent Workshop had conducted workshops that never took
place,” Schneiderman’s office said. “Parent Workshop then
submitted this letter to the attorney general’s office in
response to a subpoena.”  Huntley is charged with tampering with physical evidence
and falsifying business records in the first degree, each a
felony carrying a maximum sentence of four years in prison, and
conspiracy in the fifth degree, a misdemeanor, Schneiderman’s
office said. She pleaded not guilty today at a court appearance
in Mineola, New York, Schneiderman’s office said.  Denies Charges  Conviction of a felony would result in her automatic
removal from office under state law. Huntley, of  Jamaica , who
was first elected to the state senate in 2007, has vowed to
fight the charges.  “Senator Huntley maintains her innocence, believes in our
judicial system and will be exonerated of all charges,” her
office said in a statement today. “The fact that this
indictment against the senator is coming down less than three
weeks before the primary election is no coincidence.”  Member items are state grants sponsored by a member of the
legislature for a specific purpose, according to the indictment.
The state has distributed more than $900 million to more than
20,000 not-for-profit groups since 1999, Schneiderman’s office
said.  The aide, Patricia D. Savage, the president of Parent
Workshop, and the niece, Lynn H. Smith, who served as treasurer,
were indicted in connection with the probe in December. They
face as long as seven years in prison if convicted of the
charges.  Parent Workshops  The indictment accuses Savage and Smith of claiming that
Parent Workshop would use the funds secured with the member item
to hold workshops and counsel parents on the workings of the
city’s public school system, according to the statement from
Schneiderman’s office.  Savage and Smith never intended to hold such events and
instead kept $29,950 that was paid to Parent Workshop by the
state, according to the indictment.  Two other suspects, Roger N.  Scotland , president of the
Southern Queens Park Association, and David R. Gantt, a
consultant, were also indicted in December.  Scotland was accused of creating a fake letter for the
Southern Queens Park Association to help hide the theft from
investigators, and Gantt was accused of falsifying records to
make it seem like he was paid in cash for conducting workshops,
while not holding any such events.  Court Appearance  Savage, Smith and Gantt were scheduled to appear in court
in Nassau County today, according to state records. Attorneys
representing Savage and Gantt didn’t immediately respond to
messages seeking comment on Huntley’s indictment.  Smith’s attorney, Howard R. Birnbach, said his client has
pleaded not guilty and anticipates a trial sometime around the
end of the year. Scotland is apparently a cooperating witness,
and may have testified before a grand jury, Birnbach said.  “We look forward to a trial and we’re confident when the
facts come out she’ll be completely vindicated,” Birnbach said.  Scotland didn’t immediately return a telephone message
seeking comment and nobody answered the phone at the Southern
Queens Park Association after normal business hours. Scotland
wasn’t named in the new indictment and his case is still
pending, said James Freedland, a spokesman for Schneiderman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  