-- Nigerian Breweries Gains Most in More Than 3 Weeks: Lagos Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-08-27T14:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/nigerian-breweries-gains-most-in-more-than-3-weeks-lagos-mover.html
Nigerian Breweries Plc (NB) , a unit of
 Heineken NV (HEIA) , rose the most in more than three weeks on
speculation that full-year sales growth will match a second-
quarter expansion even amid militant attacks in the nation’s
north.  The  stock  of the West African country’s biggest brewer and
second-largest company by market value advanced 1.6 percent to
121.6 naira at the 2:30 p.m. close of trading in Lagos, the
commercial capital, the biggest jump on a closing basis since
Aug. 2. Nigerian Breweries gained 29 percent this year, compared
with a 13 percent climb in the  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share
Index. (NGSEINDX)   The company said July 25 that second-quarter revenue rose
24 percent to 136.5 billion naira ($862 million) from a year
earlier, while net income increased 2 percent to 19.38 billion
naira. Bombings and attacks by Boko Haram Islamist militants are
curbing beer sales in northern  Nigeria , Chief Executive Officer
Nicolaas Vervelde said on May 10.  “We are cautiously optimistic that Nigerian Breweries will
maintain this growth trajectory for the rest of the year, noting
that this performance is in spite of Nigerian Breweries’ warning
that the insecurity in northern Nigeria was hurting sales,”
Lagos-based Vetiva Capital Management Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed
note to clients today.  Boko Haram, which says it is campaigning to establish an
Islamic state in  Africa ’s top oil producer, has carried out bomb
and gun attacks targeting government buildings, security forces
and churches in the mainly Muslim north and the capital, Abuja,
in the past two years.  The insurgency by Boko Haram, which means “Western
education is a sin” in the local Hausa language, is a more
serious threat to Nigeria than the 1967-1970 Biafra civil war,
President  Goodluck Jonathan  said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  