-- Norway’s Drilling Costs Create Disadvantage, Lundin CEO Says
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-08-27T20:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/norway-s-drilling-costs-create-disadvantage-lundin-ceo-says.html
Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE) , which holds a
stake in the biggest oil discovery off the coast of  Norway  since
the 1970s, said the country should tackle high drilling costs.  “The cost structure in the Norwegian  North Sea  is
extremely high, and that does put at some point Norway in a
disadvantaged position,” President and Chief Executive Officer
Ashley Heppenstall said today in an interview in Stavanger, on
Norway’s western coast. “They’ve got to acknowledge the issue,
and they’ve got to get the balance right between regulation and
cost.”  A report ordered by the Norwegian government this month
showed that tighter regulations and higher labor costs are
making drilling more expensive in Norway than in countries such
as the U.K. Drilling costs, which doubled from 2000 to 2010,
mean Norway isn’t reaching its potential in terms of oil and gas
output, the committee’s leader, Eivind Reiten, said Aug. 16.  Lundin has a 40 percent and 10 percent stakes in the two
licenses that hold the Johan Sverdrup field, Norway’s biggest
find for more than 30 years.  Partner  Statoil ASA (STL)  said today a new find had been made at
Geitungen in the PL265 license where Lundin has a 10 percent
interest, which is probably linked to Sverdrup and could hold as
much as 270 million barrels.  “It validates the view that there’s more to find on the
Utsira High,” as the area is known, Heppenstall said.  Bigger Pie  Statoil’s director for operations at Johan Sverdrup,
Oeivind Reinertsen, said today that the schedule for the
development of the field, which would have it producing by the
end of 2018, could be adjusted. Heppenstall said the partners’
primary objective was to “make the pie as big as possible” by
appraising the find, before deciding on the best way to develop
it by the end of next year.  He said there would then be a debate on how to divide the
find among the partners, and that it was too early to say which
share each would get.  “We’re all grown-ups, and we’ll come to a resolution,” he
said. “I’d be very happy if we got a smaller percentage of a
bigger pie.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  