-- Nose Job Implants May Raise Infection Risk, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-08-27T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/nose-job-implants-may-raise-infection-risk-study-finds.html
Patients who undergo nose surgery
with synthetic implants may increase the risk of infection
requiring additional medical procedures, a study found.  About 20 percent of the patients who used implants such as
 Stryker Corp. (SYK) ’s Medpor developed infections, while 5.3 percent
who used products like W. L. Gore & Associate’s Gore-Tex got
infections, according to research released today by the  Archives
of Facial Plastic Surgery .  Nose surgery, called rhinoplasty, is the most common
cosmetic or reconstructive procedure for men and women younger
than 35, the  American Academy  of Facial Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery said in a February report based on a
 survey  of its member doctors. Today’s study, one of the largest
to look at synthetic implants such as Stryker’s Medpor, shows
that patients need to know the risks before the procedure, said
Andrew Winkler, the lead study author.  “This is a cautionary paper,” said  Winkler , an assistant
professor in the Department of Otolaryngology at the  University
of Colorado  in Aurora, in an Aug. 24 telephone interview. “The
patient needs to be aware that the complication rate is higher
with this implant at least in this study.”  Joe Cooper, a spokesman for Kalamazoo, Michigan-based
Stryker, declined to comment on the study findings.  Implants may be used when a patient’s tissue is unavailable
from the nose, the ear or the ribs. Medpor, a type of porous
high-density polyethylene, is firm and used in rhinoplasty to
help structurally rebuild the nose. Stryker gained the product
in its October 2010 acquisition of Porex Surgical.  Gore-Tex , or
expanded polytetrafluoroethylene, is floppy and most commonly
used on the ridge of the nose to build up height, Winkler said.  If an infection occurs, patients may have to take an
antibiotic and if it doesn’t clear up then the implant needs to
be removed and the surgery may have to be redone, he said.  Researchers in the study looked at 662 rhinoplasty
procedures conducted from 1999 to 2008. Of those, 151 procedures
used implants. They found that 19 of the patients developed an
infection. All the infections occurred in patients who had
implants used during their surgery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  