-- Obama Voting Fight on Photo ID Targets South Carolina
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-27T18:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/obama-voting-fight-on-photo-id-targets-south-carolina.html
Ten weeks before the  U.S.
presidential election , the Obama administration is wielding the
Voting Rights Act against laws it claims will keep minorities
from the polls. Today, the target in federal court in  Washington 
is  South Carolina ’s photo identification rules.  The Justice Department, in a week-long trial, is asking
three judges to reject South Carolina’s measure requiring
residents to show federal or state-issued photo ID at polling
stations, arguing the burdens imposed by the law will weigh more
heavily on minority voters than on white ones.  South Carolina is among at least six states awaiting
decisions on the legality of new voter identification
requirements passed by Republican-controlled legislatures.
 Texas , whose law was blocked by the Justice Department, said it
needs a federal court ruling by the end of the week.
 Pennsylvania ,  Mississippi  and  New Hampshire  are waiting to see
whether the department will oppose their laws.  Wisconsin  is
appealing a state court judge’s ruling that declared its voter-
ID law unconstitutional.  “It’ll be interesting to see how Texas and South Carolina
play out with the clock ticking down and the difficult
administrative problem of trying to get IDs into the hands of
people who need them if the courts allow the laws to go
forward,”  Rick Hasen , an election law blogger and professor at
the  University of California ,  Irvine ’s law school, said in an
interview.  Proposed Changes  At issue are proposed changes in procedures that Republican
lawmakers say are necessary to prevent fraud. Democrats and
liberal activist groups argue the steps are aimed at limiting
votes for President  Barack Obama  and other Democratic candidates
for local and federal offices.  South Carolina is one of 16 jurisdictions with a history of
voting rights violations that need either approval from the
Justice Department or a special panel of federal judges in
Washington to change election procedures under Section 5 of the
Voting Rights Act of 1965.  South Carolina’s law requires residents to present one of
five approved state or federal-issued photo IDs. It did away
with a non-photo voter registration card in favor of one bearing
the voter’s photo that would be issued free of charge to all
residents.  First Rejected  South Carolina’s voter ID law, one of eight enacted last
year, was the first to be rejected by the Obama administration
under the Voting Rights Act. The state responded to the  Justice
Department ’s refusal to clear the plan by filing a lawsuit in
February.  “The evidence in the case establishes that South Carolina
cannot meet its burden that these strict photo ID requirements
will not have a retrogressive effect,” on minorities, Bradley
Heard, a lawyer in the Justice Department’s civil rights
division, told the judges today during opening remarks.  He said minorities are less likely to possess the required
identification or the means to obtain it and therefore some
won’t vote.  The department argues that South Carolina didn’t produce
any evidence of in-person voter fraud in the state. Rather,
legislators ignored information from election officials showing
that of the 178,175 voters who lack state photos, about 36
percent, or 63,756, were non-white.  ‘Discriminatory Impacts’  “Given that approximately 30 percent of South Carolina
registered voters are non-white, this chart provided clear
evidence of the likelihood of racially discriminatory impacts,”
according to the department’s trial brief.  South Carolina claims that just 149,021 registered voters,
less than 6 percent of the state’s 2.7 million registered
voters, currently lack the required identification. Of those,
about 57,000 are minorities, H. Christopher Bartolomucci, a
lawyer for the state, told the judges today.  “The law affects many more white voters than minority
voters,” said Bartolomucci, a partner at Bancroft Pllc in
Washington.  The state said the department and the intervening groups
ignore the law’s provision that would make photo identification
cards available free of charge at motor vehicle offices and
polling stations.  “Presenting photo ID is a common, if not daily, occurrence
in this country,” the state said in an Aug. 21 filing by its
legal team, which includes  Paul Clement , former solicitor
general in the administration of President  George W. Bush .  Courthouse ID  “This very court has a ‘100 percent ID check’ policy,”
the state said in its brief. “Voter ID laws do not burden the
right to vote (or any other right) any more than courthouse ID
checks burden the right of access to the courts.”  South Carolina said in a June 29 filing that if the court
rules in its favor before Nov. 6, it will immediately enforce
the identification requirements.  If the law isn’t approved by Sept. 15 -- unlikely given
that closing arguments are scheduled for Sept. 24 -- then some
of the law’s provisions, such as offering free ID documents at
polling places, can’t be carried out for the November election.  For this year, citizens arriving at the polls without the
required identification would fill out an affidavit and then
cast a provisional ballot that would be valid unless election
officials find the affidavit to be false, according to the
filing.  Fraud Allegations  George “Chip” Campsen III, a Republican state senator who
sponsored the legislation, testified today that the issue of
voter fraud was brought up by constituents after the 2008
election following media reports involving allegations of fraud
by minority-activist group Acorn.  He said individuals in his state “expressed concern”
about the electoral process or lack of confidence in it.  Groups that intervened in the case against South Carolina
said the plan gives thousands of poll workers discretion to
decide whether a vote will count.  “The trial will make clear that the state’s proposed photo
identification measure will have a significant impact on its
minority voters,” Ryan Haygood, director of the political
participation group at the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Haygood’s group represents two intervenors in the case, the
South Carolina State Conference of the NAACP and a black college
student.  Bush Appointees  The three judges who will decide the South Carolina case
are U.S. Circuit Judge Brett Kavanaugh and U.S district judges
 John Bates  and Colleen Kollar-Kotelly. Kavanaugh and Bates were
appointed by President George W. Bush. Kollar-Kotelly was
appointed by President  Bill Clinton .  Bates, in September 2011, dismissed a direct challenge to
the constitutionality of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act
brought by Shelby County,  Alabama , and was upheld by the U.S.
Appeals Court in Washington. The U.S. Supreme Court may decide
in October whether to hear the county’s appeal of that decision.  South Carolina’s voter ID law is the second to go to trial
in Washington this year. To ensure the law could be implemented
by November, Texas, which sued to have its rules approved, told
the court it needs a ruling before the end of the month.  “A lot that happens in the South Carolina case might be
influenced by what the Texas case does, assuming it comes out
before the election,” Hasen said.  The case is South Carolina v. U.S., 12-cv-00203, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 