-- Obama’s Callow, Cruel Reaction to Syrian Massacres
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2012-08-27T22:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/obama-s-callow-cruel-reaction-to-syrian-massacres.html
Last week, U.S. President  Barack Obama  drew a “red line” for Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad.  “We have been very clear to the Assad regime, but also to
other players on the ground, that a red line for us is we start
seeing a whole bunch of chemical weapons moving around or being
utilized,” he said. “That would change my calculus. That would
change my equation.”  Eighteen months into the Syrian slaughter, Obama  finally 
happened on a barbarism he would not countenance. Fighter jets
and helicopter gunships had been pounding the city of Aleppo,
and the dictator had made it clear that the cruelty meted out to
Homs could be Aleppo’s fate, as well. Massacres had become the
rule of the day, more than two dozen torture centers had turned
 Syria  into a hellish land, and now finally a red line had been
drawn. Assad “hasn’t gotten the message,” Obama says. But the
truth is that the Syrian ruler some months back concluded that
he could kill with abandon, and that powers beyond wouldn’t come
to the rescue of the Syrian people.  The cruel fate of Daraya, a working-class Sunni town a few
miles southwest of Damascus, tells of a Syrian regime free of
any scruples or worries about the outside world. Over the past
week, hundreds perished in  Daraya , women and children killed
execution-style. The Local Coordination Committees, a
reliable group that has been monitoring and documenting the
protests, put the  death toll  in that town at 630, a mini-
Srebrenica in many ways.  Just Pretense  It was one thing to run out the clock on the Syrians, but
that didn’t suffice. The sophistry and the cynicism that covered
up the abdication assumed that all, at home and abroad, were
incapable of seeing through the pretense. Thus, help was always
on the way, just another round of deliberations at the  United
Nations Security Council  away.  We exhausted and stretched the language of outrage -- our
diplomacy ran out of  adjectives , as Senator  John McCain  so aptly
put it. Our cavalry would turn up if only the Syrian opposition
would overcome its differences. Then there was the specter of
the jihadists: They were converging on Syria, and surely,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said, we wouldn’t want to be
on the side of  Ayman al-Zawahiri  and al-Qaeda.  The best is the enemy of the good: There was no way of
determining in advance what kind of regime would emerge in the
aftermath of Assad, hence we should be forgiven our caution.
What might look like moral callousness in  Houla  and Aleppo
should then be considered strategic wisdom.  The ways of the world are what they are: The custodians of
American policy had placed their wager on the attention span of
spectators to the Syrian slaughter. Crimes, however monumental,
become routine. Wait out the initial outrage and people move on,
they weary of calamities. Besides, the policy of the Obama
administration had skillfully depicted the choice in Syria
between boots on the ground or total indifference. Now it could
be argued that this is a false choice, that there is a great
deal that could be done short of dispatching the Marines to the
shores of Latakia.  From the very beginning of this war between the Syrian
ruler and the vast majority of his people, it was well
understood that Turkish policy deferred to America’s
preferences, so close is the relationship between President
Obama and Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan .  Turkey  could have
tipped the scales with a no-fly, no-drive zone on the Syria-
Turkey border. A buffer zone would have given would-be defectors
from the Syrian army protection and encouragement. Sunni
recruits have been eager to desert the Alawite regime, shamed
and violated by the cruelties inflicted on ordinary civilians.  Turkey’s Timidity  But all the talk of such a zone has been in vain. No green
light came from  Washington , and Turkish policy grew timid and
hesitant. The Syrian downing of a Turkish F4 fighter plane in
late June was  a moment  of great consequence in this crisis. No
retribution came from Turkey, or from its patrons in Washington.
It didn’t really matter whether the plane had been shot down
over Syrian or international waters. This was a chance to punish
the dictator and embolden his people.  Instead, the myth of Prime Minister  Erdogan , the new
darling of “the Arab street” and the standard-bearer of Sunni
Islam in the regime, was laid to rest. The Syrian people were on
their own, and they had come to a stark recognition of their
solitude.  One mantra of the Obama administration has been that Syria
isn’t  Libya , that the former has more difficult and sensitive
borders. But these borders call for a more assertive American
policy. The feuds of Syria were bound to spill into neighboring
lands.  Lebanon is, of course, the  most sensitive  of these
neighbors to the Syrian contagion. That delicately balanced
country is on the verge of a relapse into its old, deadly ways.
Loyalists of Assad battle his opponents, while kidnappers and
masked men roam free in  Beirut . It is a veritable hell in the
northern city of Tripoli, where a conservative Sunni majority is
at war with an  Alawite  enclave.  There are tremors of Syria making their way into  Iraq , as
well, playing on the  fault lines  between the Sunni sympathizers
of the Syrian rebellion and its Shiite opponents.  A swifter outcome to this fight for Syria would have been
both a strategic and a moral imperative. The U.S. didn’t have to
carry the burden alone. Turkey and the Sunni Arab states would
have been assured that the U.S. was in this fight, as well. But
Obama has only now chosen to speak out on Syria and to draw a
line that the dictator in Damascus never intended to cross.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at the  Hoover Institution 
and author of “The Syrian Rebellion,” recently published by
Hoover Institution Press. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on applying  Mitt Romney’s
business sense  to defense and on  Libor-rigging ;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on  Jews’ “obsession” with the Holocaust ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why
we shouldn’t forget about  Social Security’s problems ; William
Pesek on  South Korea’s presidential election ;  Stephen Smith  on
the inflated  cost of U.S. commuter trains .  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 