-- Obama Campaign Stretches Truth on Jobs: Reality Check
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-27T16:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/obama-campaign-stretches-truth-on-jobs-reality-check.html
In the heat of the presidential
campaign, both sides have made statements that don’t square with
reality. Here’s a look at some claims compared to the facts.  Obama’s Jobs Data  The Claim:  Stephanie Cutter , deputy Obama campaign manager,
said his record on  job creation  coming out of a recession was
better than that of former Presidents  George W. Bush  and  Ronald Reagan .  “Over the past, you know, 27 months, we’ve created 4.5
million private-sector jobs. That’s more jobs than in the Bush
recovery, in the Reagan recovery,” she said.  The Background: The economy is the No. 1 issue in the
campaign, and Republicans have hammered President  Barack Obama 
on the sluggish recovery.  The Facts: Cutter was wrong. Bush and Reagan did better
than Obama. She misspoke about the number of months it took
Obama to see the recovery of 4.5 million private sector jobs. It
was 29, not 27.  Measuring from the employment trough in February 2010,
through July 2012, the economy did add the 4.5 million jobs
Cutter cited. Over the same span from the employment low point
under Bush, 4.7 million private-sector jobs were created.  Reagan’s record was 3.5 million better than Obama’s. There
were 8 million private sector jobs added during the first 29
months after the December 1982 low point, compared with Obama’s
4.5 million.  By another measure, net job growth since the
official end of the recession 37 months ago, Obama does
outperform Bush, 3.4 million to 1.1 million.  Reagan’s recovery
still leaves Obama in the dust: 9.1 million.  Romney on Medicare  The Claim:   Mitt Romney  says the Obama health-care overhaul
would hurt Medicare beneficiaries.  “The trustees of Medicare estimate that approximately 4
million people will lose their coverage under Medicare
Advantage,” he said.  The Background: The Medicare Advantage program allows
beneficiaries to get coverage through private insurers, paid for
by the government. More than a quarter of Medicare recipients
used private plans in 2011.  The theory was that competition would lower costs. Instead,
Medicare Advantage became more expensive than traditional
Medicare: in 2010, the difference averaged 9 percent.  The Obama overhaul reduces payments to insurers by an
estimated $136 billion through 2019, bringing them closer to
traditional Medicare’s costs.  The Facts: Romney’s statement is half true. After the law
was passed, Medicare’s trustees estimated that fewer people
would get benefits through private plans. How many depends on
which period you look at.  Even so, saying that people will “lose their coverage”
suggests private insurers will drop them. That isn’t what the
trustees predicted, and it’s unlikely. As payments to insurers
fall, so will the extra benefits they offer, causing some people
to choose traditional Medicare instead.  Romney’s claim also overlooks the fact that Medicare
Advantage has failed to contain costs.  Romney on Obama’s Taxes  The Claim: Romney says tax increases hurt economic growth
and shouldn’t be used to balance the budget.  “What they don’t understand is that raising taxes slows
down growth and it’s like a dog chasing its tail. You’re never
going to get to the balanced budget by raising taxes,” he said.  The Background: Part of Obama’s deficit-reduction plan
would impose higher tax rates on the highest-earning households
and caps on their tax breaks. Romney says he’ll balance the
budget in eight to 10 years without tax increases.  The Facts: Tax increases were part of the successful
deficit reduction effort of the 1990s under President  Bill
Clinton . The deficit was turned into a surplus and economic
growth averaged 3.8 percent. The  budget deficit  returned under
President George W. Bush, as taxes were cut while costs rose for
the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan . Most economists say higher
taxes may be a drag on growth in the short term, while smaller
deficits help in the long term. A boost of 0.1 to 0.6 percent of
gross domestic product could result from continuing the Bush-era
tax cuts into 2013, according to an estimate by the
 Congressional Budget Office .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  