-- Oil Trades at Two-Week Low on Isaac; Gasoline at Four-Month High
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-08-28T06:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/oil-trades-near-two-week-low-on-forecasts-isaac-impact-limited.html
Oil traded near the lowest level in
two weeks on speculation Tropical Storm Isaac’s impact on output
in the  Gulf of Mexico  will be limited. Gasoline was near a four-
month high amid a fire at  Venezuela ’s biggest refinery.  West Texas Intermediate futures were little changed in  New
York  after dropping a third day yesterday, the longest losing
streak since June. Isaac was near hurricane strength as it
headed for the  Gulf coast , according to the National Hurricane
Center. Storage tanks burned for a fourth day at Venezuela’s
645,000 barrels-a-day Amuay plant, where an Aug. 25 gas
explosion killed 48 people. Oil has pared gains before a U.S.
Federal Reserve symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , on Aug. 31.  “It seems likely now that Isaac won’t be doing any lasting
damage to oil facilities in the Gulf,” said Ric Spooner, a
chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “Buyers seem
reluctant to take prices too much higher from here until they
get further detail” on what the Fed might do to boost economic
growth, he said.  Oil for October delivery was at $95.35 a barrel, down 12
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 4:46 p.m. Sydney time. The contract yesterday fell 68 cents,
or 0.7 percent, to $95.47, the lowest close since Aug. 15.
Prices are 3.5 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement was at $112.27 a barrel,
up 1 cent, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to WTI was at $16.92, from
$16.79 yesterday.  Gulf Output  Isaac’s center was about 145 miles (235 kilometers)
southeast of the mouth of the  Mississippi River  with top winds
of 70 miles per hour, the National Hurricane Center said in an
advisory at 2 a.m. in Miami. That’s 4 mph less than hurricane
intensity. It was moving northwest at 12 mph and is forecast to
strengthen before approaching southeastern  Louisiana  and
Mississippi today, the center said.  The storm halted about 78 percent of oil output and 48
percent of natural-gas production in the Gulf and forced
evacuations from 346 production platforms and 41 rigs, the
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement said yesterday.
Four refineries in Louisiana were shut, idling combined capacity
of 832,700 barrels a day, or 4.8 percent of the U.S. total, and
at least four are running at reduced rates.  The region accounts for 23 percent of U.S. oil output and 7
percent of natural gas production, according to the U.S. Energy
Department in  Washington .  Refinery Closures  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  is shutting the St. Charles and Meraux
refineries in Louisiana,  Bill Day , a company spokesman in  San
Antonio , said by e-mail. Phillips 66 is temporarily shutting
down its 247,000 barrel-a-day Alliance refinery at Belle Chasse,
Louisiana, the company said in a statement on its website. Exxon
Mobil Corp. began closing operations at the Chalmette plant near
 New Orleans , the company said on a community hotline.  Marathon Petroleum Corp.’s Garyville refinery in Louisiana
is operating at reduced rates, Shane Pochard, communications
manager for the company, said in an e-mail. Motiva Enterprises
LLC’s Norco and Covent refineries in Louisiana are also running
at lower rates, the company said on its website, as is Exxon
Mobil’s Baton Rouge plant.  In Venezuela, firefighters have put out one of the three
blazes at the Amuay refinery and extinguished about 75 percent
of another, President  Hugo Chavez  said on his Twitter account
today. There is no structural damage to the processing units at
the facility about 240 miles west of Caracas, according to Oil
Minister  Rafael Ramirez .  Gasoline Premium  Venezuela has 4 million barrels of inventories of gasoline
and other petroleum products and continues to produce 735,000
barrels of gasoline a day at plants, including nearby Cardon,
according to Ramirez. Amuay will be restarted within two days
after all the fires have been extinguished, he said.  Gasoline for September delivery advanced as much as 0.2
percent to $3.1621 a gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange
today after climbing 2.5 percent to $3.1548 yesterday, the
highest settlement since April 30. The  premium  of the motor fuel
to WTI gained as much as 1 percent to $28.71 a barrel, the
widest gap in a week, after increasing 9 percent yesterday.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably shrank  2 million barrels 
last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. That would be the fifth weekly drop,
the longest run of declines since July 2011. The decrease would
leave inventories at the lowest level since March 23.  Fuel Supplies  Gasoline supplies may have fallen  1.4 million barrels ,
according to the median estimate of 11 analysts in the Bloomberg
survey. Distillate stockpiles, a category that includes diesel
and heating oil, probably rose 400,000 barrels.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Oil in New York has technical support around $94.05 a
barrel along the bottom of a short-term uptrend channel on the
daily chart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
channel started from the June 28 drop to $77.28, the 2012
intraday low. Crude’s moving average convergence-divergence
indicator yesterday fell below its signal line, indicating a
loss of momentum. Investors tend to sell contracts on a so-
called MACD crossover.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will speak at the
Kansas City Fed’s annual symposium in Jackson Hole, where he may
shed light on the likelihood of a third round of asset
purchases. The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of debt since
2008 in two previous rounds of quantitative easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  