-- Homebuilding Revival Sparks Rush for Best California Land
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-08-27T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/homebuilding-revival-sparks-rush-for-best-california-land.html
Guy Asaro, president of McMillin
Homes LLC, bought three land parcels in  Texas  this year while
coming up empty in the  San Diego  area, where the closely held
builder is based.  Ready-to-build lots around San Antonio, where McMillin has
constructed houses since 2005, cost $55,000 to $70,000, or as
little as one-sixth the going price in San Diego, Asaro said. He
keeps searching in  California , the most populous state, because
a little land in the right place can yield a big return.  “In Texas, land is like lumber -- something to build a
house for somebody to live in,” Asaro said in a telephone
interview. “In California, the land is what’s valuable. The
house is just how you monetize it.”  The nascent recovery in  new-home sales  has U.S. builders
rushing to buy up a diminishing supply of well-located, ready-
for-construction land. They added more than 18,000 lots during
their most recent quarter, the biggest gain since their
inventory hit a nadir in the fourth quarter of 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Demand is becoming so
overheated in areas such as coastal California that developers
are forced to pay more or shop in less-favorable markets.  Around the California coast, where the technology and
health-care industries are fueling job gains, plots are selling
faster than developers can prepare the dirt. The supply of
finished lots -- which have permits, streets and water and power
lines, enabling construction -- will fall to zero within a year
in San Diego, Orange County and San Jose, said the Concord
Group, a Newport Beach-based consulting firm.  ‘Running Out’  “We’re running out of inventory,” Richard Gollis, a
Concord Group principal, said by phone.  U.S.  new-home  sales rose in July to an annual pace of
372,000, up 25 percent from a year earlier and the fastest since
April 2010, the Commerce Department reported last week.  Land prices probably will climb an average of 5 percent
this year and next, faster than home values, according to  Paul Diggle , property economist for Capital Economics Ltd. in London.  “We expect the early stages of the recovery to be
characterized by demand for land that can be relatively easily
developed and which is within a reasonable commuting distance of
downtowns,” Diggle said in an e-mail. “Speculative buying of
land in the desert, miles from business hubs, is unlikely to
make a quick reappearance.”  Job Growth  California payrolls increased by 25,200 positions in July,
the most of any state, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 
reported on Aug. 17. The  unemployment rate  in the 10 largest
cities varied from a low of 7.3 percent in the San Francisco-
Silicon Valley area to a high of 14.7 percent in Fresno, in
central California, according to the state Employment
Development Department. The statewide 10.7 percent  jobless rate 
was the third-highest in the U.S., behind Nevada and Rhode
Island.  Lot shortages are also looming in and near Seattle;
Raleigh, North Carolina; and Washington, D.C., where job growth
has outpaced the addition of home sites, Gollis said.  In Phoenix, where 48,500 jobs were added in the 12 months
through July, prices for finished plots in desirable areas have
tripled since 2010, said Nate Nathan, a Scottsdale, Arizona-
based land broker. He completed two deals in the Phoenix area
this month, totaling $54.5 million for 1,061 lots.  “This market is on fire,” he said in a interview.  Bubble Warning  Permit applications  for new U.S. homes climbed last month
to an annual rate of 812,000, the most in almost four years,
according to the Commerce Department. While that’s up 30 percent
from July 2011, housing construction must reach an annual pace
of about 1.2 million to accommodate  population growth , said  Mark Kiesel , managing director for Pacific Investment Management Co.
in Newport Beach.  “New  inventories  are at 50-year lows,” he said during an
Aug. 14 interview on Bloomberg Television. “Housing starts are
really half of what the long-term average is.”  Kiesel became a homeowner again in May, six years after he
sold his last house and said that over-construction and easy
credit had created a housing bubble.  Robert Shiller , a Yale University professor of economics
who also forecast the property crash, said this month that real
estate is still prone to busts.  “California is the worst,” Shiller said during an
appearance with Kiesel on Bloomberg Television’s “Street
Smart.” “There are the repetitions of the bubble psychology.
It could be building up in some places.”  Inland Markets  In the San Francisco Bay area, the median home price jumped
13 percent in July from a year earlier to the highest level in
almost four years, according to DataQuick. The increase was 8.1
percent in  Southern California , the San Diego-based information
company said.  While the coast recovers, California’s inland real estate
markets remain among the weakest in the country. The five U.S.
metro areas with the highest rates of  foreclosure  filings in the
first half of the year were Stockton, Modesto, Riverside-San
Bernardino, Vallejo and Merced, all inland California cities,
according to RealtyTrac Inc.  Vallejo filed for bankruptcy in 2008, followed by Stockton
and the city of San Bernardino this year, after declining
property values and rising public-employee costs left them
insolvent.  Even some inland areas are starting to experience rising
demand for lots, said Layne Marceau, Northern California
division president for closely held builder Shea Homes LP. Shea
manages development of Mountain House, a planned community for
15,000 homes 58 miles (93 kilometers) east of San Francisco. The
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  wrote down its
$1.12 billion investment in the project to $96.8 million as land
values plunged, according to the fund’s 2011 annual report.  ‘Future Inflation’  This month, builders agreed to buy almost 300 finished lots
in Mountain House, at prices 50 percent higher than a year ago,
Marceau said.  “They’re paying today for projected forecasted future
inflation,” he said in an interview. “It’s been amazing.”  In San Diego, well-capitalized public builders such as
 Lennar Corp. (LEN)  are driving up land prices beyond the reach of
smaller competitors, said Bill Davidson, president of Davidson
Communities, a closely held builder based in Del Mar,
California. Lennar recently outbid him for a 10-lot parcel near
San Diego, a property so small that large builders would have
ignored it a few years ago, he said.  “They’re here with a vengeance,” Davidson, whose company
has built 5,000 homes since 1978, said in a phone interview.
“I’ve seen land prices go up 50 percent.”  Lennar, Toll  Lennar, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
spent $287 million on land and lots in its most recent quarter,
a 74 percent increase from a year earlier, according to
President Richard Beckwitt.  “We continued to acquire great deals in Florida and Texas,
but invested more heavily in some extremely high-margin
opportunities in California and the Mid-Atlantic,” Beckwitt
said on Lennar’s June 27 earnings conference call.  Lennar declined to comment further, said Allison Bober, a
spokeswoman for the Miami-based builder.  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S. luxury-home builder,
agreed in May to pay about $110 million for half of an Orange
County subdivision with permits to build 1,780 single-family
homes and 414 apartments. The Horsham, Pennsylvania-based
company is raising prices for its California homes because
demand is so strong, Chief Executive Officer Douglas Yearley Jr.
said on an Aug. 22 earnings conference call.  “Silicon Valley: hot,” Yearley said as he ranked
California’s markets. “We just wish we had more. San Francisco:
strong. Coastal Southern California, Orange County and northern
San Diego County: very strong.”  Higher Risk  Publicly traded builders recorded more than $32 billion in
losses on land purchases and options contracts from 2005 through
the first quarter of this year, and should restrain from
depleting their cash to buy land “in these still uncertain
times,” according to a July report by  Fitch Ratings .  California, among the states hit hardest by the housing
crash, offers a high-risk path to profits compared with Texas,
where  home prices  have moved in a narrower range, said  Brad Hunter , chief economist for Houston-based Metrostudy, which
tracks new construction.  Land in Texas -- the second-most populous state, which has
a quicker development approval process -- offers steady returns
while it “isn’t particularly sexy or exciting,” Hunter said in
a phone interview from his office in Palm Gardens, Florida.
“People in California have to bite their fingernails and
stomach the risk that there won’t be another wave of
foreclosures.”  ‘Big Dollars’  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI) , the largest builder by volume, spent $938
million on land in the first three quarters of its fiscal year,
up from $582 million a year earlier. While recent deals boosted
the Fort Worth, Texas-based builder’s nationwide lot count to
more than 130,000, the most since mid-2008, little of the new
land was in California because prices seemed “overheated,” CEO
 Donald Tomnitz  said.  “It takes big dollars and it’s a higher risk, given the
state of California’s economy,” Tomnitz said on a July 27
earnings call. “So we’re trying to choose land and lot
positions in low-risk areas to provide us the best return.”  Approval Process  Developers preparing California land for construction face
an approval process that delays projects and pushes up costs.
Newhall Ranch, a master-planned community north of Los Angeles,
received initial county approval in 1998 for 20,000 homes. Its
developer,  Aliso Viejo , California-based FivePoint Communities
Inc., doesn’t expect to break ground until next year, after
delays caused by litigation and a 2009 financial restructuring,
CEO Emile Haddad said.  “The barriers to entry are so lengthy and complicated, it
makes the supply limited,” Haddad said in phone interview.
“Unless you’re working on deals and entitlements today, you’re
going to miss the next cycle.”  Builders are required to foot the bill for infrastructure
development, further driving up land costs. FivePoint is in
talks to pay $1.2 billion for parkland, roadways and schools for
the right to construct as many as 10,700 homes at the former El
Toro Marine Corps Air Station in Orange County.  Environmental regulations, such as requiring developers to
report the potential impact of  greenhouse gases  generated from
new projects, discourage investors with limited time to get a
return on their money, said Bob McLeod, CEO of Newland Co., a
planned-community developer based in San Diego.  ‘Expensive Place’  California’s “not expensive because everybody’s running to
buy land, but because it’s an expensive place to do business by
a wide margin,” he said. “It takes three to five to 10 years
to get a project approved.”  Lots at Newland’s Cinco Ranch, a 12,000-home master-planned
community outside Houston, cost about $65,000, compared with
more than $338,000 for similar properties at the company’s 4S
Ranch north of San Diego, McLeod said.  Builders pay a premium for California land with the
expectation of wider profit margins, Asaro of McMillin said. His
company, which sold 456 homes last year, lists a 2,800-square-
foot (260-square-meter) house in San Diego for $459,900,
compared with $246,900 for a similar property in Texas.  KB Home (KBH)  sold its average California house for $402,000 in
its most recent quarter, a 32 percent jump from a year earlier.
That compared with an average of $163,700 for homes in its
central region of Texas and Colorado, where prices dropped 7.7
percent, the Los Angeles-based builder said.  Those price differences will increase as California lots
become more scarce, Asaro said.  “I see immense price pressure here in the next couple
years,” said Asaro, this year’s chairman of the Building
Industry Association of San Diego. “It’s going to be very hard
to meet the upcoming demand. The future of homebuilding is where
people are and people are where jobs are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  