-- Hong Kong’s Occupy Protesters Face Deadline to Leave HSBC
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-08-28T01:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/hong-kong-s-occupy-protesters-face-deadline-to-leave-hsbc.html
Occupy Central protesters in  Hong
Kong  defied a 9 p.m. deadline last night to leave  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) ’s Asian headquarters where they have spent more than 10
months demonstrating against income inequality.  More than 10 tents were still pitched on the ground floor
plaza under HSBC’s Central building today, with some
demonstrators sleeping on couches.  “There are things that we need to persist in,” Ho Yiu-
shing, a protester who was named in the eviction court case HSBC
brought against the group. “There’s a symbolic meaning in our
move. I will continue to get more people to support the Occupy
movement.”  The demonstrators, who totaled about 50 at the height of
the protest, were to evacuate by 9 p.m., according to an order
given by Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance on Aug. 13. Police
in other countries have evicted activists from the Occupy
Movement, which started in  New York  last year. Authorities in
 London  removed campaigners in London on June 14, while in
November, U.S. demonstrations ended in confrontation with
authorities.  Last night, media outnumbered a few dozen protesters as
cameramen crowded around a band whose music elicited head-
banging and shouts from those remaining in the makeshift camp.
Security guards didn’t intervene.  Dwindling Numbers  While Hong Kong has seen its wealth gap widen to a record,
stoking public discontent, the Occupy Central movement has
failed to attract demonstrators equal in number to those who
took part in protest marches this year. On July 1, the
anniversary of Hong Kong’s return to  China , as many as 112,000
people took to the streets to demand more be done about  income
inequality , human rights in China and higher minimum wages.  “Most of them have already gone,” said D. Tam, a woman
who wore a baseball cap and green face mask, and declined to
give her full name. “There are not enough people left. Even
though we are just a small group we will stay until the last
minute to support the anti-capitalist movement.”  Six people who came to attend the Occupy Central concert
last night were chatting at the area this morning and said they
will leave soon.  One shirtless male protester clad in ripped trousers and
face paint danced under an escalator in the area last night,
surrounded by shreds of Chinese funeral money and HK$10 notes.
As he filmed himself on a pink digital camera perched on a
tripod, the man was joined by a girl who spun in circles around
him.  If the protesters don’t leave, a writ of possession will be
issued by the court, and executed by a bailiff, HSBC spokesman
 Gareth Hewett  said in an e-mail yesterday.  Court Bailiff  “HSBC will work in consultation with the court bailiff to
agree the timing and terms of the execution of the writ of
possession,” Hewett said. “No eviction will take place on the
plaza until the writ of possession is in place.”  Occupy Central aimed to create a community space for the
discussion and sharing of the group’s ideals, activists said on
its Facebook page. They have pitched tents, laid out couches,
and conducted English and music classes at the HSBC plaza since
Oct. 15.  “We may be forcefully moved out of here but at the same
time we will also be making a peaceful protest,” said Riyah
Mahbu, a teacher who has participated in in the protest since
June. “There will not be violence.”  Police Officers  HSBC said earlier that it had requested the protesters
leave voluntarily on May 29 because of a number of events
scheduled at the plaza. The bank sought a court order after the
demonstrators failed to comply with the request.  In June, as many as 100 police officers were involved in
evicting the last Occupy London campaigners from Finsbury Square
near the city’s financial district. There were no arrests and no
violent incidents during the operation, said a spokesman for
London’s  Metropolitan Police Service .  The non-confrontational end to the London occupation
contrasts with cities like New York and Oakland,  California . New
York City police in riot gear swept into a Lower Manhattan park
on Nov. 15 to remove Occupy  Wall Street  protesters. About 142
people were arrested inside the park and more than 50 outside,
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said.  The U.S. demonstration started as a way to highlight “the
role of Wall Street in creating an economic collapse,”
according to the  Occupy Wall Street  website. The action spread
to more than 1,500 cities worldwide, it said.  Hong Kong is one of several Asian cities including Seoul,
Taipei and  Tokyo  which have seen protests inspired by the  Occupy
Wall Street  movement in New York spread to their streets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  