-- Lonmin Seen Tempting Chinese Offers on Discount: Real M&A
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-08-28T16:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/lonmin-seen-tempting-chinese-platinum-bid-on-discount-re.html
For an acquirer willing to bet
platinum prices will rebound,  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  has never been valued
so cheaply versus its biggest mining competitor.  The third-largest platinum producer has plunged to the
 lowest share price  since 2008 as Lonmin posted an unexpected
loss and grappled with higher wage and power costs and an
industrywide glut of platinum that’s used in jewelry and cars.
The stock slump accelerated this month as 44 protesters and
police officers were killed at Lonmin’s Marikana project, the
worst mine violence in South Africa since apartheid ended.  With Lonmin’s chief executive officer also out for “some
months,” investors are willing to pay the least on record per
dollar of profit to own the London-based company’s shares
compared with  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. After Lonmin said it may need to sell new
shares as it faces a likely breach of debt covenants, Stanlib
Collective Investments Ltd. and Renaissance Group said a Chinese
buyer may see a chance for a takeover if  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  will sell
its 25 percent stake. Other South African mining companies may
also be interested, said Momentum Asset Management.  “These are extreme conditions and that’s when extreme
things happen,” Peter Major, head of mining at Cadiz Corporate
Solutions, which advises on mergers and acquisitions, said in a
telephone interview from Johannesburg. “Everything’s got a
price. It’s a real asset. It’s a platinum company with metal in
the ground.”  Police Violence  James Clark, an outside spokesman for Lonmin at Cardew
Group in  London , said the company doesn’t comment on
speculation. While Lonmin is registered in London, the
operational headquarters and some of the management team have
moved to Johannesburg.  Lonmin’s shares reached their lowest price since December
2008 last week in the wake of a labor uprising at its Marikana
mine. On Aug. 16, police killed 34 people at the mine, the
deadliest police action since the end of apartheid in 1994.
Prior to the shooting, 10 people, including two policemen, died
in fighting and protests after an illegal strike that began Aug.
10 at the operation about 100 kilometers (62 miles) west of
 South Africa ’s capital,  Pretoria .  About 3,000 rock-drill operators had gone on strike this
month demanding that Lonmin increase their pay. Lonmin said the
protests turned violent because of rivalry between two unions.
Marikana accounts for about 96 percent Lonmin’s output.  Today, Lonmin shares fell 1.6 percent to 630 pence.  Platinum Prices  Spot prices for platinum have advanced 9 percent since Aug.
15 as violence idled about a fifth of the world’s platinum-
output capacity. Previously, prices were down 23 percent in a
year as demand slowed for the metal. According to Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd., global supply last year exceeded demand.  Platinum is little changed from 2010, when prices averaged
$1,613.46 an ounce, while electricity and labor costs increased
by amounts exceeding inflation each year in South Africa, the
nation with the most known platinum reserves. Lonmin gave
workers pay increases of as much as 10 percent last year, and
state-owned Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. raised average electricity
prices 26 percent in the country in the year ended March 31.  That led to a  net loss  in the six months ended in March and
sent the stock down  46 percent  in a year, giving Lonmin a market
value of 1.3 billion pounds ($2 billion). In addition, Lonmin
said last week that CEO Ian Farmer won’t return to full-time
work for “some months” as he is treated for a “serious
illness.” Chief Financial Officer Simon Scott is acting CEO.  Declining Valuation  Anglo American Platinum, the world’s largest producer of
the metal, has fallen  21 percent  in the past year, less than
half of Lonmin’s decline, giving the Johannesburg-based company
a  price-earnings ratio  of more than 109. Lonmin traded at 13
times profit on Aug. 24. Anglo American Platinum’s multiple was
more than eight times higher than Lonmin’s last week, the
biggest premium on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg that dates back to 1999.  Last week, Lonmin’s price-book ratio was as much as 59
percent less than Johannesburg-based  Impala (IMP) ’s multiple of 1.64
for the steepest discount since December 2008, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Lonmin was at 0.71 times book value, a measure
of its assets minus liabilities, on Aug. 24. Impala, the second-
largest platinum producer, is down  18 percent  in the past year.  “Long-term it has traded above 2 times book over the last
14 years,” Paul Whitburn, a mining analyst at Regarding Capital
Management in  Cape Town , said of Lonmin. “I wouldn’t say it’s
the best business around, but it’s a good business.”  ‘Widespread Crime’  The violent Marikana protests highlight structural problems
in South Africa, including high unemployment that’s associated
with “widespread crime, which is regularly cited as one factor
deterring foreign investment,”  Fitch Ratings  said Aug. 24.  The now-expelled youth leader of the ruling  African
National Congress  last year called for mines to be nationalized,
saying it will create more jobs in a country where about one in
every four people are unemployed. Mining accounts for 8.8
percent of the country’s gross domestic product and generates
jobs for about 1 million of the nation’s 51 million people,
according to the South African Chamber of Mines.  “If you look at developments in South Africa -- one, on
account of labor unions and, second, talks of mine
nationalization -- any foreigner would be very foolhardy to bid
for assets at this time,” said Abhishek Shukla, an analyst at
Paris-based  Societe Generale  SA. “While price has certainly
come down, the fact remains that you might keep on losing money
for several years if platinum prices don’t recover. I just don’t
see why someone would be in a great hurry to buy Lonmin.”  Selling Shares  Lonmin said on Aug. 21 it will probably breach debt
covenants and is studying funding options including issuing
shares. It may need to raise $1 billion, Societe Generale
estimated Aug. 16.  Xstrata, the owner of 24.6 percent of Lonmin’s  shares 
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, could maintain its
holding by purchasing stock should the company offer new equity,
or it could opt not to exercise those rights and reduce its
stake. A spokesman for Xstrata declined to comment on the
company’s plans.  Xstrata raised its ownership in Lonmin in October 2008
after scrapping a bid to acquire the whole company. The
following year, Xstrata CEO Mick Davis said the attempt was
“one deal too many” and that it was “not so smart” to raise
its stake to prevent any other company from buying Lonmin. He
paid an average 1,979 pence a share to raise the stake after
bidding 3,300 pence a share for Lonmin in August 2008.  Xstrata’s Options  Xstrata is being acquired by  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ,
which hasn’t been “too enamored with deep-level mining or
platinum,” said Whitburn of Regarding Capital, which owned
shares of Lonmin as of June 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  If Xstrata doesn’t want to increase its holdings of Lonmin
shares through the rights offering, “then there’s a chance that
you can see corporate activity on the company,” Kobus Nell, a
 fund manager  at Stanlib Collective Investments, said in a phone
interview from Johannesburg. “The obvious crowds are the
Chinese and Russians.”  Stanlib, which manages more than 365 billion rand ($43
billion) according to its website, owned shares of Lonmin as of
June 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies in  China  may consider acquiring Lonmin to secure
platinum supplies for the automotive industry, said Patrick Mathidi, a fund manager in Johannesburg at Momentum Asset
Management, a unit of Momentum Investments which has more than
320 billion rand under management. Platinum is used in
pollution-control equipment for cars.  Chinese Buyers  “Longer term, platinum is still a very strategic metal,”
Sven Richter, who helps manage $3 billion of assets at
Renaissance, said in a phone interview. “There have been issues
of oversupply but I don’t perceive that pollution controls are
going to go away. So, especially if you’re Chinese and you’re
thinking strategically, it must be very attractive.”  Jeffrey Rhodes, global head of precious metals at INTL
FCStone Inc., forecasts that platinum may climb to $2,000 an
ounce by December, which would be 31 percent higher than the
metal’s spot price of $1,521.38.  Mathidi of Momentum Assets said  African Rainbow Minerals
Ltd. (ARI)  may also be a potential buyer as it seeks to boost
platinum’s contribution to its net income, while  Exxaro
Resources Ltd. (EXX)  might study a deal to diversify into new metals.  African Rainbow, which owns platinum mines with  Russia ’s
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Anglo and Impala, said in February it
appointed banks to advise it on potential platinum deals.  African Rainbow  “In line with ARM’s growth strategy, we continually
evaluate new business and acquisition opportunities in all
commodities that we see value in,” Johannesburg-based African
Rainbow said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Exxaro, based in Pretoria, declined to comment about
whether it has any interest in acquiring Lonmin. On Aug. 1,
Exxaro, the country’s second-largest supplier of coal, said it
was studying gold, platinum and copper acquisitions.  A takeover of Lonmin won’t happen any time soon even though
“the potential upside in Lonmin is enormous,” according to
Blake Allen, a London-based mining analyst at Anchor Capital.
“Although we think the platinum companies are cheap and the
metals they produce are fundamentally undervalued, we still
think an acquisition of Lonmin won’t happen in the near term.”  While acquirers may remain on the sidelines during the
political fallout from the recent violence, buyers, including
Chinese companies, could still see an opportunity, said Kurt Benn, head of resources at Cape Town-based Cadiz, which owned
shares of Lonmin as of June 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Anyone who is looking for top-quality assets in the
platinum space would definitely be interested” in Lonmin, Benn
said in a phone interview. “You’d need deep pockets. The
Chinese government wouldn’t have a shareholder to explain things
to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 