-- Thorning-Schmidt Says Danish Recovery to End Era of Deficits
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-08-27T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/thorning-schmidt-says-danish-recovery-to-end-era-of-deficits.html
Denmark ’s Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt said the government will get rid of its  budget
deficit  in the “medium term” as economic growth picks up in
the Nordic country.  “We are hoping that next year will have more growth,”
Thorning-Schmidt said in a texted reply to questions in
Reykjavik late yesterday, after meeting with her Icelandic
counterpart Johanna Sigurdardottir. “That will improve the
economy and help us achieve the goal of a balanced budget in the
medium term.”  Thorning-Schmidt’s Social Democrat-led coalition said this
week it will cut its domestic borrowing need by 29 percent in
2013 as the budget deficit is reduced by more than half to 1.9
percent of gross domestic product and economic growth almost
doubles to 1.7 percent. The improved outlook means Denmark will
probably cut its bond issuance next year, according to Danske
Bank A/S, the country’s biggest lender.  Yet even the projected fiscal consolidation may understate
the potential to reduce the deficit, the government signaled
yesterday. An estimated 5 billion kroner ($840 million) in
revenue from an overhaul of capital pension taxes may end up
“considerably higher” than budgeted, meaning the outlook for
public finances is “much less certain than usual,” the  Finance
Ministry  said. Denmark last posted a  budget surplus  in 2008,
according to the European Commission.  Debt Reduction  “Ours is a low but safe estimate,” Finance Minister
Bjarne Corydon told reporters in Copenhagen yesterday. “Others
have estimates that are much higher and it’s clear that if those
estimates turn out to be true, we’ll use the money to reduce our
debt.”  The country’s debt office has so far signaled it won’t
revise its outlook for issuance. Ove Sten Jensen, head of debt
management at the central bank said his department is sticking
to this year’s estimated 100 billion kroner in bond sales. The
office has yet to arrive at an estimate for next year’s
issuance, he said in an interview yesterday.  Reduced Danish debt issuance would coincide with the
growing haven appeal of the nation’s bond markets. Denmark,
which pegs the krone to the euro, pays less than  Germany  to
borrow and has charged investors to hold its two-year debt
through most of July and August.  The yield on Denmark’s benchmark 10-year note was 1.097
percent yesterday, about 26 basis points lower than the yield on
similar-maturity German bunds.  Denmark’s public debt will be less than 30 percent of gross
domestic product this year and next. The government’s commitment
to debt reduction has boosted its haven status as much of the
euro area struggles to emerge from a fiscal crisis, Thorning-
Schmidt said.  “There’s no doubt that the economic policies that we’ve
had in Denmark have made Denmark a safe-haven,” she said.
“It’s also connected to the insecurities” associated with
investing “in other countries,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  