-- Tottenham Sells Modric to Real Madrid for Reported $47 Million
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-08-27T14:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/tottenham-sells-modric-to-real-madrid-for-reported-47-million.html
Tottenham Hotspur traded Luka Modric
to Real  Madrid  after more than a year of rejecting offers for
the playmaker.  The 26-year-old from  Croatia  signed a five-year contract
after passing a medical examination today, Real Madrid said on
its website. Real will pay about 30 million pounds ($47.4
million), the British Broadcasting Corp. reported.  Modric, who scored 17 goals in 160 games for Spurs after
joining from Dinamo Zagreb in 2008, was a target for Chelsea
among other clubs since June 2011.  Tottenham said Real Madrid agreed to collaborate with the
London team with regard to players, coaching and commercial
relationships as part of the deal. It didn’t provide details.  “Luka has been a terrific player for us and, whilst we
preferred not to part with him, we are pleased that it is to
Real Madrid, a club with which we now look forward to sharing a
long and productive partnership,” Spurs Chairman  Daniel Levy 
said in a  statement .  Tottenham has signed three players since finishing fourth
in the Premier League last season, adding striker Emmanuel Adebayor from  Manchester City , Hoffenheim midfielder Gylfi
Sigurdsson and Ajax defender Jan Vertonghen.  Spurs hired Andre Villas-Boas as manager last month to
replace  Harry Redknapp .  Real, the defending champion, saw its 24-game unbeaten run
in the Spanish league end yesterday with a 2-1 defeat at Getafe.
It was Real’s first La Liga loss since a 3-1 defeat by Barcelona
on Dec. 10.  Real opened its title defense with a 1-1 draw against
Valencia. The last time it was winless after two matches was in
2001-02, according to Infostrada Sports.  Modric is Real’s first signing of the season.  “I am honored and proud to have joined the best club in
the world,” Modric said, according to the Real website. “It’s
the biggest challenge of my soccer career.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net 
Alex Duff through the London newsroom
at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  