-- Tottenham to Sell Modric to Real Madrid as Clubs Agree Alliance
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-27T10:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/tottenham-to-sell-modric-to-real-madrid-as-clubs-agree-alliance.html
Tottenham Hotspur agreed to sell
midfielder Luka Modric to Real  Madrid  and also signed a
partnership agreement with the Spanish soccer champion.  The 26-year-old Croatian playmaker, who scored 17 goals in
160 games for Spurs after joining from Dinamo Zagreb in 2008,
will sign a five-year contract with Real subject to him passing
a medical examination, the clubs said today.  “Luka has been a terrific player for us and, whilst we
preferred not to part with him, we are pleased that it is to
Real Madrid, a club with which we now look forward to sharing a
long and productive partnership,” Spurs Chairman  Daniel Levy 
said in a  statement  on his club’s website.  Modric is joining a team whose 24-game unbeaten run in the
Spanish league ended yesterday with a 2-1 defeat at Getafe. It
was Real’s first La Liga loss since getting beaten 3-1 by
Barcelona on Dec. 10. The last time Real, which opened its title
defense with a 1-1 draw against Valencia, was winless after two
matches was in 2001-02, according to Infostrada Sports.  Details of Modric’s transfer fee weren’t given in separate
statements by the teams announcing the deal. Real will pay about
30 million pounds ($47.4 million) for Modric, the British
Broadcasting Corp. reported without saying where it got the
information. The  Daily Mail  earlier said that Spurs will use the
money to fund moves for Brazilian duo Willian of  Shakhtar
Donetsk  and Internacional’s Leandro Damiao.  The north London club has signed three players since
finishing fourth in the Premier League last season, adding
striker Emmanuel Adebayor from  Manchester City , Hoffenheim
midfielder Gylfi Sigurdsson and Ajax defender Jan Vertonghen.
Spurs also hired Andre Villas-Boas as manager last month to
replace  Harry Redknapp , who left his position June 14.  Tottenham and Real are also entering a longer-term
collaboration that Spurs said will result in them working
together “in respect of players, coaching, best practices and
commercial relationships.”  “We are delighted to welcome Luka and look forward to
working closely with Tottenham in the coming years,” Real
Madrid President  Florentino Perez  said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  