-- Tower Hits Three-Year Low on Bond Conversion: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-28T15:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/tower-hits-three-year-low-on-bond-conversion-israel-overnight.html
Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM) , the
Israeli maker of customized computer chips, slumped to a three-
year low as investors in the company’s convertible bonds sell
the stock before a price is set for the swap into equity.  The shares lost 2.1 percent in  New York  to $7.04 yesterday,
bringing the Migdal Haemek, Israel-based semiconductor company’s
decline in August to 28 percent, its worst monthly performance
since 2008. The drop contributed to a 0.4 percent retreat in the
 Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most traded Israeli
companies in New York. Its Tel Aviv shares dropped 1.5 percent
to 27.58 shekels, or $6.86, at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv.  Tower is the worst performer on the  Nasdaq Computer Index (IXK) 
in August after the company cut its sales forecast and on
speculation moves by investors Bank Hapoalim Ltd. and Bank Leumi
Le-Israel Ltd. will dilute the shares. Additionally, holders of
convertible debentures are pushing the stock lower as the three-
week period that will set the conversion price begins, according
to Leader & Co. Investment House Ltd. and Oppenheimer & Co.  “Traders are starting to pressure the stock because it
will benefit them when the conversion price is set,” Sabina
Podval, an analyst at Leader & Co., said by phone from  Tel Aviv .
“Lowered revenue expectations and the dilution of the company’s
shares by banks that hold its capital notes are the other two
concerns.”  Israel’s TA-25 benchmark index dropped 0.7 percent to
1,108.23 in Tel Aviv today, trimming this year’s gain to 2.1
percent. The Israel-US Equity Index’s slide yesterday trimmed
this year’s gain to 3.1 percent.  Debt Restructuring  Tower issued about $100 million of 7.8 percent convertible
bonds in October 2010 as part of a debt restructuring, with the
conversion price set at 1.2 times the shares’ average value in
the 15 trading days before Sept. 18, 2012. Bondholders can
change the debt into equity through December 2016.  “There is an interest to keep the stock lower because of
the big window to convert,” Podval said.  Third-quarter sales will be between $152 million and $162
million, Tower said in an Aug. 9 statement that cited slower
revenue growth at its largest customers. Analysts at the time
were expecting revenue of $174 million, according to the average
of three estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are also concerned about a glut of supply as Bank
Hapoalim and  Bank Leumi  convert their capital notes into shares
and may sell them in the market, according to Podval.  In 2006 and 2008, the banks restructured Tower debt they
held into the notes. The banks received regulatory approval to
convert about half their securities to shares, Tower Chief
Executive Officer Russell Ellwanger said in an Aug. 9 call with
investors.  Financial Troubles  “Tower had to increase debt and share count to overcome
financial troubles, and those issues are coming to head now,”
Andrew Uerkwitz, an analyst at Oppenheimer, said by phone from
New York. “They have to work through some of these issues, but
once they do, investors will wake up and see that the company is
a strong performer.”  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
stock market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Cellcom gained the most since Aug. 15, advancing 5.3
percent to $7.11 in New York yesterday. Its Tel Aviv shares rose
1.3 percent to 28.21 shekels, or the equivalent of $7.02, today.  Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. raised its
recommendation on shares of the Netanya, Israel-based
telecommunications company to buy from neutral.  Cash flow  and
improved operations are the main reasons for the upgrade, Ori Licht, an analyst at IBI, said by phone from Tel Aviv.  Mellanox Gains  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the Israeli maker of technology
used to transfer and store data, increased 2.2 percent to
$116.80. Its shares in Tel Aviv advanced 1.8 percent to 472
shekels, or $117.38.  The company will be added to the MSCI Standard Index and
removed from the MSCI Small Cap Index at the end of the month, a
move that may result in net inflows of $120 million, according
to a report from Clal Finance dated yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  