-- Petrobras Lures Private Equity to Deep Waters
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-08-27T18:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/petrobras-lures-private-equity-to-deep-waters-corporate-brazil.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ’s oil finds
are attracting private-equity investments to the country’s
energy industry after the Brazilian state-run company struck its
thickest layer of crude ever in an offshore field.  First Reserve Corp. and Riverstone Holdings LLC last year
invested $1 billion to help Barra Energia Petroleo & Gas buy a
stake in the Carcara area from Royal Dutch Shell Plc. Petrobras,
which operates the block, said Aug. 13 it found good-quality oil
at Carcara that’s thicker than the layer at Lula, Brazil’s
largest field with an estimated 6.5 billion barrels of reserves.  Petrobras got the attention of investors with a plan to
spend $236.5 billion on developing the world’s biggest crude
discoveries in more than a decade. Banco Santander SA started
Brazil’s first oil-industry private equity fund in 2010 as
analysts forecast the industry will attract as much as 600
billion reais ($296 billion) in five years. Funds including
 Singapore ’s Temasek Holding Pte. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
Gavea Investimentos Ltda. have bought stakes in equipment
suppliers set to benefit from Petrobras drilling.  “Without a doubt there is more space for investments in
oil and gas,” Clovis Meurer, chief executive officer of venture
capitalist CRP Companhia de Participacoes and head of the
Brazilian Private Equity & Venture Capital Association, said in
a telephone interview from  Porto Alegre , Brazil. “Investment
volumes are going to increase.”  Petrobras rose 0.3 percent to 21.30 reais at 3:08 p.m. in
Sao Paulo. The stock is down 0.7 percent this year, compared
with a 2.5 percent gain in the benchmark  stock index .  $8.1 Billion  Private equity and venture capital funds dedicated to
Brazil raised $8.1 billion last year, up from $6.2 billion in
2010, according to the Latin American Venture Capital
Association, or Lavca. Gavea, Vinci Partners, BTG Pactual and
Patria Investimentos raised $7.3 billion of that last year,
Lavca said on its website.  Santander started its Brazil oil fund in a partnership with
Rio de Janeiro-based asset management firm Mare to raise $1.4
billion for investments in startups supplying Petrobras. Mare is
controlled by former Vale SA director Demian Fiocca and Rodolfo Landim, an ex-Petrobras director who helped billionaire  Eike Batista  set up oil producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA.  Banco Bradesco SA, the country’s largest bank by market
value after Itau Unibanco Holding SA, also started a fund to
raise 2 billion reais last year. Valora Gestao de Investimentos,
a Sao Paulo-based private equity firm, raised 500 million reais
this year to invest in providers of offshore drilling equipment.  Barra bought 10 percent of the BM-S-8 block where Carcara
is located from Shell in July 2011. The Rio de Janeiro-based
startup also acquired part of the Atlanta and Olivia oil fields
in the Campos Basin from Chevron Corp.  Discovery  Drilling at Carcara’s first well found a layer of oil
that’s more than 400 meters (1,300 feet) thick, compared with as
much as 350 meters at Lula, Jose Formigli, the head of
Petrobras’s exploration and production unit, told reporters Aug.
15. That would make it the thickest layer of oil ever discovered
in Brazil’s so-called pre-salt region, according to finds
announced by Petrobras on its website. Formigli said the company
is still assessing how wide the reservoir is.  The initial data indicates Carcara may be one of the
largest fields discovered in Brazil, Cleveland Jones, an oil
specialist and geology professor at  Rio de Janeiro  State
University, said in a telephone interview. Jones estimates the
entire area holds “in excess” of 100 billion barrels, compared
with government estimates of at least 50 billion barrels.  ‘Right Place’  First Reserve and Riverstone “were in the right place at
the right time,” said Beth Ramos, a partner for the oil and gas
division of consulting firm Ernst & Young LLP in Rio.
“Petroleum is risky economically, but petroleum is petroleum --
if you have a find you’re easily going to recover” your
investments.  “We are encouraged by management’s progress in building a
diversified portfolio in the Santos Basin and with the results
so far at Carcara,” Will Honeybourne, managing director of
Greenwich, Connecticut-based First Reserve, said in an e-mailed
response to questions about Barra. Jeff Taufield, a spokesman at
New York-based Riverstone, declined to comment when reached by
telephone.  Brazil hasn’t sold any exploration licenses since 2008,
reducing opportunities for investing in oil startups and
prompting private-equity firms instead to focus on services and
equipment providers, said Sergio Brasil, a mergers and
acquisitions lawyer at Mayer & Brown in  Sao Paulo .  “I see more opportunities in the supply chain,” he said.
“In exploration there are huge investments and most of them are
foreign companies” that don’t need equity financing.  Oil Boom  The  oil boom  led by Petrobras means Brazil’s offshore
industry will require about $400 billion worth of goods and
services in the 10 years through 2020, according to estimates by
local oil-industry association ONIP.  One of the biggest risks facing private-equity firms
investing in Brazil’s oil is increased government intervention,
said Auro Rozenbaum, an analyst at Bradesco in Sao Paulo. In
2010, Brazil passed a law giving Petrobras operating control of
all blocks in the pre-salt region. That means Barra and other
minority shareholders have no control over how fast fields get
developed, Rozenbaum said.  ‘Depending on Petrobras’  “It all depends on Petrobras,” Rozenbaum said. “The time
value of money is a question mark here.”  The access to funding that its partners and suppliers are
getting in  Brazil  and abroad is “very positive” for the
company, Petrobras said in an e-mailed response to questions,
declining to comment further.  While Barra has sufficient funds to finance the development
of the two concessions where it has minority stakes, the
exploration company wouldn’t have any problems raising
additional funds should it seek to expand further, Chief
Executive Officer Renato Bertani said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  “Should the Carcara discovery prove to be so large that
additional capital will be required, we do not foresee many
issues in raising funding for such development,” Bertani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  