-- Plane Part Failed Before Reno Air-Race Crash, NTSB Finds
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2012-08-27T16:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/plane-part-failed-before-reno-air-race-crash-ntsb-finds.html
An air-race crash last year in Reno,
 Nevada , that killed 11 and injured 66 resulted from aircraft
vibrations that caused a tail-wing part to fail, a U.S. safety
board found.  Loose screws in the part that helped the pilot keep the
nose pointed downward made the aircraft susceptible to what’s
known as flutter, the  National Transportation Safety Board  found
in  Washington . The part failure on the modified 1944 P-51D
Mustang plane called the Galloping Ghost occurred during a race
in which the aircraft reached speeds of 530 miles per hour, the
NTSB found.  “One moment spectators were thrilled at the spectacle of
speed, only to have it followed by inescapable tragedy,” NTSB
Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said at a meeting today. “The fine
line between observing risk and being impacted by consequences
when something goes wrong was crossed.”  The NTSB’s findings today and recommendations it issued
months ago are an effort to improve safety at future Reno races,
starting with the one to be held in two weeks.  While the NTSB has investigated 22 accidents associated
with Reno air races in the past 30 years, and positions
investigators at events in case of mishaps, this was the first
time spectators as well as participants were killed.  This year’s Reno race will be safer as a result of changes
the NTSB sought, including a course redesign that moved the race
to the north and flattens one of the turns, Hersman told
reporters after the meeting.  Galloping Ghost  The Galloping Ghost, running in third place in the third
lap of a race on Sept. 16, had been in a steep left turn before
it banked sharply to the left, then right, and pitched upward
ahead of the crash.  The NTSB couldn’t decide whether the initial steep-left
bank was due to the plane being buffeted by the wake of another
aircraft ahead of it in the race, or due to the tail-part
failure.  The board, after studying hundreds of photograhs of the
race from fans and a dozen videos, concluded the tail parts were
vibrating a second after the left-bank upset. The G-force
generated at that moment, which exceeded 17 times the force of
gravity, incapacitated the pilot, who slumped forward in the
cockpit next to the control stick he’d just moved to the right
in response to the left-bank upset.  The plane at the annual race exhibition was flown by Jimmy
Leeward, 74, a movie stunt pilot. Modifications made to the
plane by Leeward, who was also its owner, were listed by the
safety board as a contributing factor to the accident.  Stressed Aircraft  The 10 modifications, nine of which he failed to notify the
 Federal Aviation Administration  about, were designed to make the
plane easier to handle at the high speeds he sought in the race.
For instance, a right tail-wing part that helped him control the
nose of the plane was anchored in place, so he relied only on
the similar part on the left tail wing for that control.  The mechanism that let him control that part, called the
left trim tab control rod, was the first part to fail as a
result of the flutter, the NTSB found.  The pilot was operating the plane at such high speeds that
he exceeded the structural limits of the aircraft, originally
built in 1944 and rebuilt in 2009. Photographs showed the skin
of the plane buckling during the race and the dome over the
cockpit being pushed off center.  “He was really testing the limits on this aircraft,”
Hersman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  