-- Poulter, Colsaerts Added to European Ryder Cup Team by Olazabal
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-08-27T13:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/poulter-colsaerts-added-to-european-ryder-cup-team-by-olazabal.html
Ian Poulter of England and Nicolas
Colsaerts of Belgium were selected as the wild-card picks for
Europe’s Ryder Cup.  Poulter, 36, and Colsaerts, 29, were chosen by European
captain Jose Maria Olazabal, joining 10 other golfers who
automatically qualified.  Europe faces the U.S. at Medinah Country Club outside
Chicago on Sept. 28-30. Europe won the last edition in 2010 by
one point.  Rory McIlroy and Graeme McDowell of Northern Ireland; Luke Donald,  Lee Westwood  and Justin Rose of England;  Paul Lawrie  of
Scotland; Francesco Molinari of Italy;  Sergio Garcia  of Spain;
Peter Hanson of Sweden; and  Martin Kaymer  of Germany qualified
based on their ranking this season.  Poulter has competed in the Ryder Cup three times since
2004, winning eight of his 11 matches.  “He’s had a great Ryder Cup record,” Olazabal said,
according to the European Tour website. “He gets the best out
of himself playing the Ryder Cup.”  Colsaerts, who was playing on Europe’s second-tier
Challenge Tour as recently as 2009, is the only golfer on the
team who is a Ryder Cup rookie.  “He really showed me that he wants to be a part of that
team,” Olazabal said.  Colsaerts missed the last automatic spot when he finished
19th yesterday at the Johnnie Walker Championship at Gleneagles
in Perthshire, Scotland. He had needed a top-two finish.  Lawrie won the tournament by four shots, finishing with a
16-under-par 272.  U.S. team captain Davis Love is scheduled to announce his
four wild-card picks on Sept. 4. Tiger Woods and  Phil Mickelson 
are among eight players who have already qualified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff through the London newsroom at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  