-- Prostate Cancer Gene May Determine Tumor Growth, Return
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-08-27T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/prostate-cancer-gene-may-determine-tumor-growth-return.html
Scientists may have found a clue to
one of the most vexing questions in cancer care: How to
determine which prostate tumors will return after surgery and
spread aggressively, and which won’t.  A gene called SPARCL1 may be the switch that makes some
prostate tumors more destructive than others, according to a
study today in the  Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences . When the amount of protein secreted by the gene
declined, cancer recurrence rose, researchers at the  Johns
Hopkins  University medical school found.  Prostate malignancies are the  second leading cause of
cancer  death in U.S. males, with more than 240,000 cases
diagnosed yearly, according to the  American Cancer Society .
About 40 percent of cases carry a higher risk that the disease
will spread after surgery, said  Edward Schaeffer , a study
author. Today’s report suggests doctors may one day be able to
know early on which patients have the most aggressive disease.  “It’s very important to identify patients who are going to
do really well after surgery, and maybe don’t need to worry so
much about cancer recurrence,” said Schaeffer, an associate
professor of urology and oncology at the  Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine  in Baltimore. “Those individuals
who are at an increased risk may need closer follow up or more
intensive interventions with treatments such as radiation.”  When the prostate is forming, SPARCL1 turns off to allow
the gland cells to grow. It then turns itself back on after
puberty to produce a steady level of its protein to a healthy
prostate, Schaeffer said by telephone.  Higher Risks  The researchers examined the DNA within the prostates of
men who had the gland surgically removed, said Paula Hurley, the
lead study author and an instructor of urology at Johns Hopkins.
After identifying the SPARCL1 gene as a possible cancer culprit,
they determined an 86 percent increased risk of recurrence over
10 years in men in whom the gene was shut off who had highly
aggressive prostate cancer, Schaeffer said.  The researchers are now trying to design a test to look at
SPARCL1 in men, he said.  “Although this work focused on prostate cancer, our work
also suggests that it may play a role regulating other cancer
recurrences as well,” Schaeffer said. “Mechanisms that
regulate SPARCL1s expression are key next steps so this
molecular pathway can be modulated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  