-- PTT Bids S$1.2 Billion for Rest of Sakari to Add Coal Assets
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-08-27T06:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/ptt-bids-s-1-2-billion-for-remaining-shares-in-sakari-resources.html
PTT (PTT)  Pcl, Thailand’s biggest company,
offered S$1.2 billion ($959 million) for the rest of  Sakari
Resources Ltd. (SAR)  to add energy coal assets in  Indonesia , giving
the target the biggest gain in almost six years.  State-controlled PTT offered S$1.90 a share for Singapore-
based Sakari through its PTT International Co. unit, the
Bangkok-based company said today in a statement. The bid, which
valued the target at S$2.2 billion, sent the shares up 28
percent to S$1.905. PTT already owns a  45.3 percent  stake in
Sakari, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Buying Sakari would give PTT control of two mines in
Indonesia and a Singapore-based trading company after a slump in
 coal prices  depressed values. PTT, which this year made the
nation’s biggest overseas energy takeover through its publicly-
traded  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  unit, plans to invest
720 billion baht ($23 billion) over the next five years as it
adds assets.  The nation’s energy reserves in the Gulf of Thailand are
“not sufficient to meet the rapidly growing domestic demand,
hence the interest in overseas assets,” said Tony Regan, a
consultant with Singapore-based Tri-Zen International Ltd. “The
chairman seems to have a mandate to spend really quite a lot of
money on overseas acquisitions.”  Sakari surged 28 percent to S$1.905 at 1:53 p.m. local
time, the most since Nov. 3, 2006.  Deal Comparisons  The bid values Sakari at 8.8 times earnings before interest
and tax compared with an average of 17 times for 10 comparable
deals collated by Bloomberg. The value of coal deals globally
this year has dropped to $12 billion, with an average premium of
19.6 percent. That compares with total value of $39 billion last
year at a 20.2 percent premium.  The bid implies a value of $12 a metric ton for Sekari’s
coal reserves, Bualuang Securities Pcl said today in a note. The
scope for upgrading production and reserves means the price is
“reasonable,” Bualuang said in the note.  “Coal represents an important long-term diversification
strategy and growth opportunity for PTT,” the Thai company said
in the statement. Coal sales accounted for 1.2 percent of PTT’s
sales last year, according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg.  Coal Share  Coal generated about 20 percent of  Thailand ’s electricity
last year, compared with 67 percent from natural gas, according
to the Energy Ministry.  Chatchawal Eimsiri, acting president of PTT International,
didn’t answer four calls made to his office in Bangkok today.
Chatchawal is responsible for PTT’s coal businesses.  PTT, which owns 65 percent of PTT Exploration, completed
the purchase of  Straits Resources Ltd. (SRQ) ’s Indonesian coal assets
for A$544 million ($565 million) in March last year. Benchmark
prices for thermal coal at  Australia ’s port of Newcastle have
declined 21 percent since the start of the year.  PTT and its major affiliates account for about a fifth of
the value of Thailand’s benchmark SET index. The company is
seeking to acquire new oil and gas reserves and secure LNG
imports as it aims to supply half of Thailand’s daily energy
demand by 2020, up from 15 percent now, it said in March.  PTT Exploration added gas assets in  Mozambique ’s Rovuma
Area 1 through its acquisition of  Cove Energy Plc. (COV)  The bid,
which valued Cove at 1.2 billion pounds ($1.9 billion), had
achieved acceptances from 97.8 percent of Cove holders as of
Aug. 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  