-- South African Yields Rise on Mine Violence as Rand Reverses Fall
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-08-27T15:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/rand-worst-performer-as-mine-violence-clouds-sovereign-ratings.html
South African bond yields rose for a
second day on concern that recent violence at platinum mines may
weigh on the nation’s credit ratings.  Yields on the nation’s 13.5 percent bonds due September
2015 advanced one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.58
percent by 4:44 p.m. in Johannesburg, the highest in a week
after jumping 10 basis points Aug. 24. The rand strengthened
less than 0.1 to 8.3951 per dollar, reversing an earlier 0.4
percent decline. The currency slid 2.4 percent last week.  Protests at a  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  platinum mine which left 44 dead
and sparked wage protests at other mines highlight structural
problems that may weaken South Africa’s credit rating,  Fitch
Ratings  said in a statement on Aug. 24. Mining accounts for 8.8
percent of the country’s gross domestic product and generates
jobs for about 1 million of the nation’s 51 million people,
according to the South African Chamber of Mines.  “The mine violence continues to take its toll,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “It
remains a news story around the world, the latest angle being
that it’s a threat to the country’s sovereign ratings.”  Fitch, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service have
cut their outlook for South African credit to negative from
stable since November, citing unsustainable spending and
political stability in Africa’s largest economy. The ruling
 African National Congress  holds leadership elections in
December.  “Continuing political uncertainty regarding ANC leadership
as well as spreading labor unrest have dented South Africa’s
prospects as a competitive investment destination for  emerging
markets  fund allocations,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury
strategic research at Johannesburg-based  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , and
colleagues wrote in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  