-- Real Madrid to Pay $42.7 Million for Luka Modric: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-27T07:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/real-madrid-to-pay-42-7-million-for-luka-modric-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Modric Fee  Tottenham Hotspur midfielder Luka Modric will join Real
Madrid after the Spanish champion worked out a 27 million-pound
($42.7 million) fee for the Croatian playmaker last night, the
 Daily Mail reported .  Spurs will use the money to fund moves for Brazilian duo
Willian of  Shakhtar Donetsk  and Internacional’s Leandro Damiao,
the Mail said. Spurs manager Andre Villas-Boas is also keen on
Fulham’s Moussa Dembele, the newspaper added.  Rooney Injury  Manchester United striker  Wayne Rooney  may miss as many as
14 games after his right thigh was cut in the Premier League win
against Fulham two days ago, the  Sun reported .  The gash, which occurred when  Hugo Rodallega  inadvertently
stood on Rooney, went through to the bone and required 10
stitches to pull the skin together, the newspaper said. United
manager  Alex Ferguson  said after the game that the injury would
only sideline Rooney for a month, the Sun added.  Sinclair to City  Swansea winger  Scott Sinclair  is set to complete his move
to Manchester City tomorrow for a transfer fee said to be 6.2
million pounds, the  Daily Mail reported .  Swansea manager Michael Laudrup left Sinclair out of his
squad for the 3-0 win against West Ham United two days ago in a
sign that Sinclair’s future lies elsewhere, the Mail added.  Frantic Five Days  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  said the club’s
activity before the transfer window closes Aug. 31 will shape
the defense of its Premier League title following yesterday’s
2-2 draw at Liverpool, the  Guardian reported .  “We need to bring players in and we have five days in
which to do it,” the newspaper cited Mancini as saying. “We
have to work very hard in these four or five days. It will be a
long week for us.”  Arsenal Targets  Arsenal wants to bring in two players this week and is
considering a 15 million-pound move for Newcastle midfielder
Yohan Cabaye, the  Mail reported .  The Gunners’ list of targets includes Rennes midfielder
Yann M’Vila and Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  is also keen to
sign a defender, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  