-- Treasuries Maintain Gains Before Bernanke Policy Speech
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-27T01:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/treasuries-maintain-gains-before-bernanke-policy-speech.html
Treasuries held gains after rising
last week on speculation  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will use his speech in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, on Aug.
31 to outline the case for further central bank action to
support the economy.  Bernanke said the Fed has the ability to take steps to
boost the expansion, in a letter last week. The central bank has
already conducted two rounds of bond purchases to pump cash into
the banking system under the policy of quantitative easing,
programs known as QE1 and QE2. The U.S. is scheduled to sell $99
billion of notes over three days starting tomorrow.  “There’s a greater possibility of QE3,” following
Bernanke’s comments, said Kei Katayama, who buys  U.S. government
debt  in Tokyo for Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which manages the
equivalent of $63.1 billion. Daiwa SB is betting Treasury rates
will rise as the economy improves, he said.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.69
percent as of 10:10 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the 1.625 percent security due in
August 2022 was 99 13/32.  The rate declined 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage
point, last week. It compares with the record low of 1.38
percent set July 25.  Further Action  “There is scope for further action by the Federal Reserve
to ease financial conditions and strengthen the recovery,”
Bernanke said in a letter dated Aug. 22 to California Republican
 Darrell Issa , the chairman of the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee.  Bernanke repeated the statement from the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s Aug. 1 meeting that the Fed will provide
“additional accommodation as needed.” He has an opportunity to
expand on his views in his speech at the end of the week at the
Kansas City Fed’s annual economic symposium in Jackson Hole.  Trading of Treasuries is scheduled to close at 3 p.m. Tokyo
time and stay shut during London market hours in observance of
the U.K. Summer Bank Holiday, according to the New York-based
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. Trading
in New York will take place as usual, the  schedule  shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net . 