-- Treasuries Advance Before Bernanke Speaks at Jackson Hole
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-08-27T21:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/treasuries-advance-before-bernanke-speaks-at-jackson-hole.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
yields almost to a two-week low, on speculation  Federal Reserve 
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will use his Aug. 31 speech in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming , to outline the case for more bond purchases.  Five-year yields extended declines from last week before
the U.S. auctions the securities among $99 billion of note sales
this week. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  called for
another round of asset purchases under quantitative easing. The
central bank has already conducted two rounds to pump cash into
the banking system.  “More people are feeling comfortable that the Fed’s going
to do more QE,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading
in New York at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , one of 21 primary dealers
that trade Treasuries with the central bank. “There’s a lack of
sellers. The auctions should go fine. These markets are manic --
they move on any piece of news.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.65 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. It touched 1.64
percent. The price of the 1.625 percent security due in August
2022 rose 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 3/4.  The yield slid 12 basis points  last week , touching 1.63
percent on Aug. 24, the lowest since Aug. 13. It dropped to a
record of 1.38 percent on July 25, compared with the average of
3.73 percent for the past decade, before reaching a three-month
high of 1.86 percent on Aug. 21.  Treasury  five-year yields  declined two basis points to 0.68
percent after losing nine basis points last week. Thirty-year
bond yields dropped four basis points to 2.76 percent.  Volume Drops  Treasury trading  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , dropped to about
$109 billion, from $181 billion on Aug. 24. Daily volume has
averaged $238 billion this year.  The  butterfly  chart spread formed by seven-, 10- and 30-
year Treasury yields suggests that 10-year notes will outperform
as U.S. government debt rises, according to CRT Capital Group
LLC, citing technical analysis.  The spread, which measures how the 10-year note is
performing against the other two securities, was at negative 56
basis points today. It may reach negative 59 basis points, a
level last seen in May, if it drops below negative 56.5 basis
points,  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.  A negative reading indicates the market is bullish on the
benchmark 10-year note.  More Expensive  Treasuries are the most expensive in three weeks, according
to the term premium, a model created by economists at the Fed
that includes expectations for  interest rates , growth and
inflation. The gauge was at negative 0.87 percent today, the
costliest since Aug. 6. It reached negative 0.70 percent on Aug.
16, the least expensive since May. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  The Treasury will sell $35 billion of two-year debt
tomorrow, the same amount of five-year notes the following day
and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Aug. 30.  Demand dropped below 2012 averages at the government’s last
auctions of notes and bonds this month. A $24 billion sale of
10-year notes on Aug. 8 drew a bid-to-cover  ratio , a gauge of
demand that compares the amount bid with the amount offered, of
2.49, the lowest level since August 2009. The year-to-date
average ratio is 3.09. A $16 billion offering of  30-year bonds 
on Aug. 9 had a ratio of 2.41, versus 2.6 for the year.  Good Demand  “These auctions will go very well,”  Ray Remy , head of
fixed income in New York at the primary dealer Daiwa Capital
Markets America Inc., said of the sales scheduled for this week.
“There will be plenty of demand for fives and sevens because
there’s a lot of dovish sentiment out of the Federal Open Market
Committee minutes.”  Treasury 10-year notes snapped the longest weekly losing
streak since 2010 on Aug. 24, rising for the first time in five
weeks amid speculation the Fed will buy more debt under
quantitative easing as global economic growth slows, renewing
demand for safety.  Bernanke is scheduled to speak at the end of the week at
the Kansas City Fed’s annual economic symposium in Jackson Hole.  “There is scope for further action by the Federal Reserve
to ease financial conditions and strengthen the recovery,” he
said in a letter dated Aug. 22 to Representative  Darrell Issa ,
the California Republican who chairs the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee.  ‘Additional Accommodation’  Bernanke repeated the statement from the FOMC’s Aug. 1
meeting that the Fed will provide “additional accommodation as
needed.” The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage debt from 2008 to 2011 to spur growth.  “You know he wants to ease; the question is when,” said
 Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading
at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “It’s a matter of
timing and what’s going to give him the biggest bang for the
easing dollar.”  The Chicago Fed’s Evans urged the central bank to begin a
third round of debt purchases and to keep buying until U.S.
unemployment declines for at least six months.  “These could be open-ended purchases, meaning that they
would continue at a certain rate until there was clear evidence
of improvement in economic conditions,” Evans said today in a
speech in  Hong Kong . “To me, one example of clear evidence
would be a resumption of relatively steady monthly declines in
unemployment for two or three quarters.”  Labor Market  The U.S. added 120,000 jobs in August, versus 163,000 in
July, economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast before a
Labor Department report on Sept. 7. The  unemployment rate  will
remain above 8 percent, where it’s been since 2009.  The Fed is implementing a program to put downward pressure
on borrowing costs by exchanging shorter-maturity Treasuries in
its holdings for longer-term debt. It bought $1.8 billion of
Treasuries today due from February 2036 to August 2042 as part
of the plan, known as Operation Twist.  QE announcements have usually increased inflation
expectations and that’s caused a steepening of the yield curve,
said Terry Belton, global head of fixed-income and foreign-
exchange research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, in a
company video presentation. “The 10s-30s curve has steepened
each of the last three balance-sheet expansions by the Fed,” he
said, recommending investors add positions in the trade.  The gap between yields on 10- and 30-year Treasuries, the
yield curve, was little changed today at 1.109 percentage points
after widening to 1.121 percentage points on Aug. 17, the most
on a closing basis since June 11.  The difference in yields between 10-year notes and
comparable Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, which
represents traders’ expectations for the inflation rate over the
life of the securities and is known as the break-even rate, was
2.31 percentage points today, near the highest in more than two
weeks. It’s down from the 2012 high of 2.45 percentage points on
March 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  