-- Redford, Affleck, Spike Lee Head for Venice Red Carpet
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-08-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/redford-affleck-spike-lee-head-for-venice-red-carpet-preview.html
An erotic thriller by “Scarface”
director Brian De Palma and a Spike Lee documentary about the
making of  Michael Jackson ’s “Bad” album are to get red-carpet
rollouts at the Venice Film Festival, which starts tomorrow.  De Palma’s “Passion” (a remake of a French movie titled
“Love Crime” and starring Kristin Scott Thomas) casts  Rachel McAdams  as a domineering executive. She robs an idea from
underling Noomi Rapace (“The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo”) and
suffers lethal consequences. It’s one of 18 movies competing for
the Golden Lion trophy at the world’s oldest film festival.  Lee’s out-of-competition “Bad 25” premieres on Aug. 31.
That’s 25 years to the day after the 1987 release of the “Bad”
album, which instantly surged to the No. 1 spot in world charts.
The CD is also being re-released in a deluxe edition next month.  “I’m more than just a huge fan of Michael Jackson,” Lee
said in a news release, “and having had the chance to actually
know him and work with him, I deeply care about his legacy.”  This year’s nine-person jury is steered by “Heat”
director  Michael Mann . Fellow jurors include performance artist
 Marina Abramovic , actresses Samantha Morton and Laetitia Casta,
and “Gomorrah” director Matteo Garrone.  Another U.S. contender for the Golden Lion is “To the
Wonder” by Terrence Malick, whose “The Tree of Life” clinched
the Palme d’Or at the Cannes Film Festival in 2011. It’s about a
man who hooks up with a woman from his Oklahoma hometown after
his marriage to a European breaks down. The movie stars  Ben Affleck ,  Javier Bardem  and McAdams, in her second Venice role.  Hoffman, Phoenix  Philip Seymour Hoffman and Joaquin Phoenix are the leads in
“The Master” by Paul Thomas Anderson, whose “There Will Be
Blood” won two Academy Awards. His new film is the story of a
Navy veteran who gets drawn into a cult around a man known to
his followers as The Master.  Robert Redford  directs and stars in another thriller: out-
of-competition “The Company You Keep,” co-starring  Shia
LaBeouf  and Julie Christie. It’s about a former activist from
the revolutionary Weather Underground movement whose identity is
uncovered by a reporter.  The festival’s opening movie is Mira Nair’s “The Reluctant
Fundamentalist,” with Riz Ahmed, Kate Hudson and  Kiefer Sutherland .  Venice this year ends with a title starring Gerard Depardieu: “L’Homme Qui Rit” (“The Man Who Laughs”),
directed by Jean-Pierre Ameris.  Actors Zac Efron and Dennis Quaid star in the in-
competition title “At Any Price,” directed by Iranian-American
Ramin Bahrani.  The Venice Festival was started in August 1932 by Mussolini
on Lido island -- where the festival still takes place -- and
dubbed the First Exposition of Cinematic Art. Two years later,
Mussolini transformed it into a permanent event.  Muse highlights include  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night
and  Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 