-- Refinery Blast Casts Shadow Over Hugo Chavez’s Re-election Bid
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-08-27T18:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/refinery-blast-casts-shadow-over-hugo-chavez-s-re-election-bid.html
An explosion at Venezuela’s largest
refinery that killed at least 48 people and injured dozens on
Aug. 25 is threatening to cast a shadow over President  Hugo Chavez ’s re-election bid.  The blast and ongoing fire at Amuay, 240 miles west of the
capital, Caracas, adds to a number of events in recent weeks
that have fueled concern over mismanagement, including a
collapsed bridge connecting Caracas with the east of the
country, deadly prison riots and protests by state workers over
collective contracts.  Chavez will need to divert blame from a poor refinery
maintenance record to avoid political fallout ahead of the Oct.
7 vote, said Luis Vicente Leon, president of Caracas-based
polling firm Datanalisis. The self-declared socialist, who is
seeking to extend almost 14 years in power with another six-year
term, trailed his opponent, Henrique Capriles Radonski, for the
first time in a Consultores 21 poll earlier this month.  “What’s risky for Chavez in terms of the campaign is that
all of these events accumulate in the minds of voters,” Leon
said in a phone interview. “One event can trigger off the
perception that the government has lost control of the
country.”  Capriles had 47.7 percent of support against 45.9 percent
for Chavez in a poll taken two weeks ago, Consultores 21 Vice
President  Saul Cabrera  said Aug. 24. The survey of 1,000 people
had a margin of error of 3.2 percentage points, he said.  In a separate poll of 1,288 people by Datanalisis between
July 16 and Aug. 9, Chavez had 46.8 percent support compared
with 34.2 percent for Capriles. The survey had a margin of error
of 2.73 percentage points.  National Guard  The explosion two days ago occurred after a gas cloud
erupted into a ball of flames that engulfed a National Guard
post as well as homes and shops in front of the refining
complex. Chavez said he ordered an investigation into the causes
and said they won’t discard any hypotheses.  The blast is among the world’s deadliest at an oil
refinery. Fifteen workers were killed at BP Plc’s Texas City
refinery in 2005, while more than 50 people died in a fire at
Hindustan Petroleum Corp.’s refinery in Visakhapatnam,  India , in
1997.  The National Guard members stationed at the refinery bore
the brunt of the deaths, including 18 troops and 15 family
members, according to Vice President Elias Jaua.  The official death toll may rise further after El Universal
reported that two burn victims who were flown to a hospital in
nearby Zulia state died yesterday.  No Negligence  Chavez, who visited the site of the explosion yesterday,
ruled out negligence as a cause and described as “impossible”
reports that the gas leak had begun hours before the explosion
and that state-owned oil producer Petroleos de Venezuela SA had
failed to respond.  Seven out of nine planned maintenance programs for the
Amuay refinery were postponed last year because of a lack of
materials, according to PDVSA’s 2011 annual report.  The accident follows several events that have shone a
spotlight on defects in  Venezuela ’s infrastructure. A bridge on
the main highway connecting Caracas to the eastern part of the
oil-producing country collapsed Aug. 15, restricting transit to
cities including Puerto La Cruz.  Four days later a prison riot at the Yare I prison in
Miranda state killed 25 people after a confrontation between two
armed groups.  Capriles today called for a “serious, responsible”
enquiry into the causes of the accident and highlighted the
collapsed bridge and the prison riots as evidence of government
negligence.  ‘Country of Accidents’  “A country of accidents isn’t the path Venezuelans want to
take,” Capriles said in comments broadcast on Globovision.
“There needs to be a serious investigation that honors the
victims.”  Chavez could use the explosion to his advantage, said
Carlos Romero, a political analyst at the Universidad Central de
Venezuela.  “The president wants to convert this tragedy into a heroic
narrative, obfuscating the principle problem which is the causes
of why this happened,” he said.  While Chavez’s popularity has fallen in recent years he
still retains strong support and many people are prepared to
forgive events as long as they continue to benefit from social
programs such as subsidized food markets and health clinics in
poor neighborhoods, said Gregory Weeks, director of Latin
American studies at the University of  North Carolina  in
 Charlotte .  Still, Capriles may be able to capitalize on Chavez’s poor
record in maintaining the country’s infrastructure, Weeks said.  “What Capriles needs to do is to create a narrative that
connects all these things together that shows why this
government needs to be defeated,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 