-- Republicans Raise Cash on Fishing Boat, Shooting Range
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-08-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/republicans-raise-cash-on-fishing-boat-shooting-range.html
When  Texas  Representative Mike Conaway goes fishing during the Republican National Convention
this week, he’s also looking to reel in piles of cash for his
leadership political action committee.  AT&T Inc. (T)  is reaching out and touching lawmakers, hosting
receptions for the Alabama and Mississippi delegations. And the
National Rifle Association is teaming up with the Congressional
Sportsmen’s Caucus for the Stars and Stripes shoot.  For lawmakers, companies, interest groups and lobbyists,
the quadrennial gathering in Tampa isn’t about simply nominating
a candidate for president, Bloomberg reports in its Political
Capital blog. It’s about raising money and schmoozing.  “You get to have all the power players grouped together in
one convenient location,” said  Sheila Krumholz , executive
director of the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks
campaign donations. “It’s the perfect opportunity to throw
fancy parties and create a festive atmosphere. It’s a golden
opportunity to buttonhole a legislator.”  Conaway is chartering a fishing boat for donors Tuesday,
seeking to raise money for his Conservative Opportunities for
New America PAC, according to the Sunlight Foundation, a
Washington watchdog group. Conaway’s campaign didn’t respond to
a request for comment.  Party Committees  The political party committees, too, take advantage of the
conventions, hosting events to let members of Congress and
candidates meet contributors and prospective donors. A National
Republican Senatorial Committee breakfast Tuesday features the
committee chairman, Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, and Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky.  AT&T has been a fixture at conventions of both parties. The
company is providing wireless service in Tampa and is helping to
fete delegations from Alabama and Mississippi, represented by
Senator  Roger Wicker , a senior member of the Senate Commerce
Committee and a member of its communications subcommittee.  AT&T spokeswoman Claudia Jones didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment after normal business hours.  Lobbying firms are staging their own events. Williams &
Jensen, which was paid $9.1 million during the first half of the
year to lobby on behalf of clients like  Visa Inc. (V) , Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP and  General Electric Co. (GE) , is hosting a
reception for the Ohio delegation, whose members include House
Speaker  John Boehner .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  