-- Tribune Judge Demands Creditor Bond to Halt Chap. 11 Exit
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-08-27T22:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/tribune-judge-demands-creditor-bond-to-halt-chap-11-exit.html
Tribune Co. creditors lost their bid
to halt the newspaper chain’s plan to exit bankruptcy without
first posting a $1.5 billion bond.  The decision by U.S. District Judge Gregory M. Sleet means
noteholders must post the bond by Aug. 29 if they want to
temporarily prevent the company from exiting bankruptcy while
they appeal its reorganization plan.  Sleet, in Wilmington,  Delaware , found that a bankruptcy
court ruling last week that required the bond “was
appropriate.”  Aurelius Capital Management LP  and other creditors had
sought to overturn a decision by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey that required the bond to protect Tribune lenders from any
delay stemming from an appeal of the exit plan.  On Aug. 22, Carey gave Aurelius and other Tribune
noteholders the chance to temporarily halt the television and
newspaper company’s exit from bankruptcy, if they agreed to post
a $1.5 billion bond.  Aurelius and other holders of Tribune’s oldest debts say
Carey erred in approving Tribune’s reorganization plan and a
related legal settlement. That settlement ended some lawsuits
against lenders that financed the more than $8 billion leveraged
buyout of Tribune in 2007.  Tribune, based in  Chicago , owes creditors about
$13 billion. The company is valued at more than $7 billion,
Tribune said in court papers.  Tribune owns the Los Angeles Times, the  Chicago Tribune  and
television and radio stations around the country. Without a
temporary halt to the reorganization plan, Tribune will be free
to move to the next phase in the bankruptcy: winning approval
from federal regulators to transfer its radio and television
licenses to the proposed new owners.  Tribune officials have said the company will be able to
exit bankruptcy this year if federal regulators approve the
reorganization plan and the license transfers.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  -- Editors: Fred Strasser, Glenn Holdcraft  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  