-- Robusta Coffee Beats Arabica as Folgers Cut Prices: Commodities
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   J e s s i c a   A b r a h a m s
-- 2012-08-28T16:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/robusta-coffee-beats-arabica-as-folgers-cut-prices-commodities.html
Robusta is beating arabica for the
first time in four years as roasters use more of the cheaper
grade and farmers reap fewer beans in  Vietnam , the top grower.  While robusta, used in espresso and instant coffee,
typically costs less than the arabica used to make specialty
drinks by retailers including  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , its discount has
narrowed to 73 cents a pound, from 145 cents at the end of 2011.
The spread will contract to 55 cents by the end of the year, the
lowest since July 2009, as demand increases to a record, the
average of 10 trader estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Roasters used more robusta in their blends to control
prices as arabica surged to a 14-year high in May 2011 after the
smallest Colombian crop since 1976 and reduced output from top
supplier  Brazil . Even after falling 26 percent this year,
arabica is still more expensive than robusta and is the worst-
performing commodity of 24 raw materials. Retailers are
reluctant to change the taste of products again so soon in the
$75.5 billion global market as consumers choose cheaper options.  “We have additional demand the market has to cater for and
roasters are unlikely to shift back to arabica,” said  Kona Haque , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London  who has
followed agricultural markets for 14 years. “A smaller crop in
Vietnam is very bullish for robusta prices.”  Robusta’s Rally  Robusta rose 14 percent to $2,067 a metric ton (94 cents a
pound) this year on NYSE Liffe in London as arabica declined to
$1.672 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  after Brazil
forecast a record crop for this year. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
 gauge  of 24 commodities added 3.6 percent and the MSCI All-
Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 8.2 percent. Treasuries
returned 2.1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The slump in arabica is already spurring some companies to
cut retail costs. JMSmucker Co., which owns the Folgers brand,
lowered retail prices in May by about 6 percent. Futures have
declined another 6.3 percent since then. Smucker anticipates
lower coffee costs for the remainder of the year, President and
Chief Operating Officer Vincent C. Byrd said on a conference
call with analysts Aug. 17.  As much as 2 million bags, each weighing 60 kilograms (132
pounds), of the 5.5 million bags of additional robusta demand
this year came from roasters switching varieties, according to
Holland Capital LLP, a London-based agricultural  investment
company  founded in 2011. Robusta will account for 46 percent of
all coffee consumption in 2012-13, up from 44 percent this
season and 40 percent in 2010-11, Volcafe Ltd. estimates.  Changed Blends  “Blend recipes were changed, and consumers were also
shifting to the cheaper option in the supermarket,” Volcafe,
the coffee unit of commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.,
said in a quarterly report e-mailed yesterday.  Vietnamese production may drop 10 percent to about 21.7
million bags in the 12 months starting Oct. 1, from a record
24.2 million, according to the median in a survey of as many as
10 traders, growers and shippers this month.  The weight of last year’s crop on trees weakened older
branches, obliging farmers to prune them. That means production
will decline this year, said Le Tien Hung, the Dak Lak-based
deputy general director of Sept. 2nd Import-Export Co., the
country’s fourth-biggest exporter.  Additional robusta demand also came from arabica-producing
nations, which imported cheaper beans for consumers and exported
more of the costlier variety, according to Euan Mann, a partner
at Holland Capital. Shipments from Vietnam to  Mexico , the third-
biggest source of arabica in stockpiles monitored by ICE Futures
U.S., more than doubled from October through June, data from the
General Statistics Office in Hanoi compiled by Bloomberg show.  Arabica Glut  The glut of arabica may diminish because the next harvest
in Brazil will be the smaller one of the two-year growth cycle.
Coffee production in Brazil dropped to 43.5 million bags in
2011-12 from 48.1 million bags in 2010-11, according to Conab,
the Brazilian agriculture ministry’s crop forecasting agency.  While robusta is taking a larger share of the increase in
demand for coffee, overall consumption growth is slowing. It
expanded 0.5 percent last year, below the past decade’s average
of 2.5 percent, according to the London-based International
Coffee Organization, which has 43 member countries.  Sales in  Spain  fell 2.6 percent in 2011 and in  Italy 
retreated 1.6 percent, ICO data show. Retail prices rose 16
percent in both countries, according to the ICO. Consumers in
countries including  Portugal , Greece,  Belgium  and Spain are
drinking more at home, said  Michael Schaefer , the head of
consumer foodservice at Euromonitor International Ltd., a
London-based researcher. A grande latte at Starbucks in London
costs 2.50 pounds ($3.95), about the same price as a 200-gram
(0.44-pound) jar of own-brand instant coffee at Tesco Plc, the
world’s third-largest retailer.  Brazilian Demand  Emerging markets  are compensating for the decline, with
Brazilian demand rising every year since at least 2005-06,
Macquarie data show. Brazil consumed 19.6 million bags of coffee
in 2011 and the U.S. 22 million bags, according to the ICO.
Brazil may become the biggest consumer in two to three years,
according to Marcos Pinta Gama, the country’s permanent
representative to international organizations in London.  Worldwide sales will reach $75.5 billion this year, from
$70.8 billion in 2011, according to Euromonitor.  “In lean economic times, consumers make trade-offs with
their household budgets and that often includes moving toward
lower-priced coffee options,” said Brian Kubicki, the vice
president of marketing at Massimo Zanetti Beverage USA Inc.,
based in Portsmouth, Virginia. Massimo Zanetti Beverage is using
more robusta because consumers want cheaper coffee and the
company, whose brands include Segafredo Zanetti, isn’t planning
to alter its blends, he said.  Securing Vietnam  Roasters are seeking to secure Vietnamese supply from the
next harvest earlier than normal this year because the old crop
was “wolfed down” at such speed, Volcafe said in a July 27
report. Robusta demand will reach 59 million bags in 2012-13,
from 57 million, matching supply, estimates CoffeeNetwork. The
Miami-based unit of broker INTL FCStone Inc. is also predicting
a 7.6 million-bag surplus in arabica.  Speculators turned bullish on robusta in February and are
holding close to their biggest bet on rising prices since the
Liffe exchange started publishing the data in October.  Hedge
funds  are their most bearish on arabica since about the start of
2009, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Their
net-short position of 14,783 futures and options now compares
with a net-long 36,754 contracts when arabica reached $3.089 in
May last year, the highest since 1997.  Coffee Stockpiles  Robusta stockpiles monitored by Liffe have fallen 66
percent from a record 417,420 tons (about 7 million bags) in
July 2011. Arabica inventories tracked by ICE Futures U.S. stood
at 1.89 million bags by Aug. 23, the most since October 2010.  Shipments from  Colombia ,  Honduras , Mexico and six other
Latin American nations jumped 50 percent in July from a year
earlier, according to Guatemala’s National Coffee Association.  Robusta exports from Brazil, the second-biggest grower
after Vietnam, fell 62 percent in the first seven months of the
year, according to Cecafe, the country’s coffee exporters’
council. Drier weather in  India , the fourth-largest producer,
may curb output by 15 percent, said Ramesh Rajah, president of
the Coffee Exporters Association of India. Monsoon rainfall was
14 percent below the 50-year average as of Aug. 22, according to
the  India Meteorological Department .  “People are buying lower quality and cheaper coffees,
which usually have a higher content of robusta beans,” said
Michela Stama, the director of the coffee buying department at
Luigi Lavazza SpA in Turin, Italy, which operates in more than
90 countries. “People have less money available for foodstuffs
and coffee is one of the items being impacted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Abrahams in London at 
 jabrahams7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 