-- Roche Drug ‘Significantly’ Extended Lives in Cancer Trial
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-08-27T16:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/roche-drug-significantly-extended-lives-in-cancer-trial.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s experimental
breast cancer drug T-DM1 “significantly” extended the lives of
breast cancer patients in a trial that may improve the
likelihood of approval of the medicine.  Roche announced in March that the drug, a so-called
antibody-drug conjugate that combines the company’s Herceptin
with an older chemotherapy, delayed the disease from worsening
in the late-stage study dubbed Emilia. T-DM1 has thus met both
of the main goals of the trial, the Basel, Switzerland-based
company said in a statement today.  The drugmaker, which gained Herceptin with its $46.8
billion purchase of Genentech Inc. in 2009, is developing T-DM1
with technology it licensed from Waltham, Massachusetts-based
 ImmunoGen Inc. (IMGN)  Today’s results were important because European
regulators had signaled they wanted proof the drug helps
patients live longer before approving it, said Odile Rundquist,
a Geneva-based analyst for Helvea SA.  “Antibody-drug conjugates are really the future of cancer
therapy,” Rundquist said by phone. She estimates peak annual
sales for T-DM1 of 1.6 billion Swiss francs ($1.67 billion).  Roche has applied to the  U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
for approval of the medicine and said today it will “shortly”
submit an application to the European Union’s drug regulator.  Today’s data is “taking it to the next step on the
survival issue” and reinforces the quality of the patient
testing of the drug, ImmunoGen Chief Executive Officer Dan
Junius said in a telephone interview.  ‘Armed Antibody’  T-DM1 is a so-called “armed antibody” that combines
Herceptin with DM1, which is derived from an older chemotherapy
medicine called maytansine. That drug was found to be too toxic
for patients in clinical trials two decades ago. ImmunoGen’s
technology enabled chemists to fuse DM1 to Herceptin in such a
way that it isn’t activated until Herceptin shepherds it
directly to the cancer cell.  Roche rose 0.6 percent to 175.9 francs in Zurich. The stock
has returned 15 percent this year including reinvested
dividends,  compared with  a 16 percent return for the Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  The Emilia trial compared the drug with combined doses of
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Tykerb and Roche’s Xeloda in women who
have a gene mutation that causes the body to create an excess of
a protein called HER2.  About 25 percent of breast cancer cases are distinguished
by HER2 on the surface of the cancer cells that causes them to
multiply more quickly. Herceptin, which generated 5.3 billion
francs in sales last year, latches on to HER2, interfering with
it without killing the cell.  Patients in the trial who received the Tykerb-Xeloda
combination will be offered T-DM1, Roche said. The company also
will set up a program to provide the drug to U.S. patients under
certain circumstances while Roche seeks regulatory clearance.
The FDA rejected a request in 2010 to accelerate the approval
process.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  