-- Romney Straddles Warmer Pitch With Obama Attacks in Tampa
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-08-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/romney-sraddles-warmer-pitch-with-obama-attacks-in-tampa.html
When the storm clouds clear,  Mitt Romney  and the  Republican Party  will face a compressed political
convention that will make the task of balancing biography and
criticism of President  Barack Obama  more difficult.  The convention’s new opening night may present the greatest
challenge with  Ann Romney ’s address aimed at women and
independent voters, as tough-talking governors --  New Jersey ’s
 Chris Christie  the foremost -- expected to rally the party’s
faithful with attacks on the president. The candidate’s wife, in
her speech tomorrow, will try to humanize her husband,
introducing him as a loving spouse and father of five.  On the convention’s second day,  Paul Ryan  will represent
the voice of the party’s anti-tax grassroots activists and a new
generation of Republican leadership. He’ll probably highlight
the tax-and-spending issues that were among the reasons Romney
chose the Wisconsin congressman as his running mate.  Romney’s life story will be presented on the convention’s
final night through Olympians and fellow members of his Mormon
faith, before the Republican nominee makes the case for himself,
trying to convince voters that he can relate to them and offers
a legitimate alternative to Obama.  Some of that could still change as a result of Tropical
Storm Isaac, which left Republicans yesterday trying to
reconfigure their convention -- after months of planning -- to
try to avoid having their campaign message diluted by the storm.  Romney’s top convention planner demurred when asked about
the possibility the convention could be extended by a day and
said the party is watching the weather.  ’Hypothetical Question’  “We are planning on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,” Russ Schriefer, a senior Romney strategist, told reporters on the
conference call yesterday. “It’s a hypothetical question.”  Reducing the convention from four days to three will mean
that the daily sessions will be lengthened and some portions
eliminated. The planned prime-time speakers will get time on the
stage.  “All of the headliner speakers I’ve been able to find a
place for,” Schriefer said. “There have been a few speakers
who weren’t headliners who we had to let go.”  Republicans played down the disruption to their convention.  “It’s a logistical nightmare, but it’s not a political
nightmare,” said  Charlie Black , a Romney adviser who helped
reschedule the Republican convention in  St. Paul  four years ago
when the party decided to cancel a day of events as Hurricane
Gustav headed toward the  Gulf Coast .  2008 Convention  The 2008 convention was still a success, Black said,
because most voters tune in only for speeches given by the
nominee, his spouse and the vice-presidential candidate.  “We’ll obviously get all that in,” he said. “What you’re
doing is trying to reorder the other 10 percent.”  Republican Party leaders announced Aug. 25 that they
planned to essentially eliminate the first day of the convention
because of wind and rain crossing  Florida , among the most
hurricane-prone states in the nation. About 50,000 visitors will
be in the Tampa area for the convention, including delegates,
members of the media, protesters and security teams.  Romney, 65, and his chief campaign strategist, Stuart Stevens, spent yesterday afternoon practicing his convention
speech at a private high school near his vacation home in
Wolfeboro,  New Hampshire . Romney expressed concern for people in
the storm’s path.  “I hope everybody’s fine there,” he told reporters.
“It’ll be a great convention.”  Romney’s Debut  The convention is supposed to be Romney’s debut for
Americans who haven’t been paying much attention to the
presidential race, where he can make his argument against Obama
and share his life story.  Another goal is to boost his favorability rating among
voters. A CNN/ORC International Poll taken Aug. 22-23  showed 
that among likely voters 53 percent say Obama cares about their
needs, while just 40 percent say that about Romney.  Romney’s advisers designed the national convention to show
off their candidate’s softer side, in an effort to combat a
summer wave of Democratic attacks on his character.  Because the networks weren’t planning to carry today’s
session anyway, the effect will be “minimal,” said  Jack Pitney ,
a political science professor at  Claremont McKenna College  in
Claremont,  California .  “The real challenge is one that is common to all
challengers: How do you make a strong case against the incumbent
while making a positive case for yourself?”  “Candidates who attack too harshly can come across as
mean,” Pitney said. “But candidates who just accentuate the
positive will not give voters a reason to replace the
incumbent.”  Making the Case  Romney needs to make the case that he understands the
everyday struggles of voters, he said.  “The main rap against Romney is that he’s a rich guy who
doesn’t understand the problems of ordinary Americans. Romney
can’t plausibly pretend that he’s just a regular Joe,” Pitney
said. “But he can talk about the ways in which faith and family
have kept him in touch with the problems of everyday life.”  Republican strategist  John Feehery  said the condensed
convention works in the party’s favor.  “You’re best at messaging when you have a shorter time
frame,” he said. “Brevity is helpful for them. It helps
tighten their message.”  Other than Romney himself, the convention speakers won’t
necessarily make a lasting impression on voters, he said.  “At the end of the day, people are going to remember Mitt
Romney’s speech,” Feehery said.  The convention’s toughest assault against Obama had been
scheduled for today. The theme was to be “we can do better”
and would highlight Americans hurt by the economic downturn.  Schriefer said that theme would now be woven into each
day’s presentations.  Economic Theme  On Aug. 29, the evening Ryan gives his speech, speakers
were instructed to center their remarks on Republican proposals
to improve the economy for middle-class families. Before Romney
formally addresses the gathering on Aug. 30, Olympic athletes
who participated in the 2002 Salt Lake City games organized by
Romney and members of his Mormon church were to give
testimonials about his leadership skills.  The decision to speak about Romney’s religion -- a major
part of his life that he has mostly kept private -- illustrates
the extent of Republican efforts to humanize him. Recent polls
have shown Romney with high unfavorable ratings, after a months-
long onslaught of Democratic attack ads focusing on his tenure
at Bain Capital LLC, questions about his finances, and his
refusal to release additional tax returns.  Even the Frank Lloyd Wright-inspired convention stage,
designed to resemble “America’s Living Room,” seeks to convey
approachability and warmth. Thirteen high-resolution screens
have been set up to broadcast quotes, pictures, and tweets
complimenting the party’s message. A house band will provide
musical entertainment and a debt clock will remind voters of
Romney’s commitment to fiscal discipline.  -- With assistance from Catherine Dodge and Phil Mattingly in
Tampa. Editors: Jeanne Cummings, Jodi Schneider  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Tampa at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Wolfeboro, New Hampshire, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  