-- Romney Must Show He Will Get Down to Business on Defense
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-27T22:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/romney-must-show-he-will-get-down-to-business-on-defense.html
National defense is traditionally a
Republican strength in U.S. presidential elections. Although
conventional wisdom holds that this year’s contest will be won
or lost on the domestic economy, defense can still be a winning
issue for Republicans -- if  Mitt Romney , the presumptive
nominee, can apply some of the expertise he gained in the
private sector to the military budget.  So far, Romney has done nothing to set aflutter the heart
of a defense wonk. He has lamely excoriated President  Barack Obama  for trying to  “slash”  the  defense budget  by nearly $500
billion over the next decade -- cuts that were actually mandated
by the  Budget Control Act of 2011  approved by Congress.  Romney has called for the Pentagon budget to have a floor
of 4 percent of gross domestic product, up from the current 3.8
percent (including funding for the wars in  Afghanistan  and
 Iraq ). This idea is odd for someone running to get America’s
fiscal house in order, as  analysts predict  it would mean an
additional $2.3 trillion in spending over a decade. It also
raises two red flags for even ardent hawks: Why base defense
spending on an abstract number rather than on an assessment of
actual threats and capabilities? And do we want aggregate
military spending to decline when the economy slows?  Troop Strength  Romney has also insisted that the U.S. not cut uniformed
forces, but rely on savings through new efficiencies and
shrinking civilian and contractor ranks. He’s right about
trimming the fat, especially from procurement. Yet the U.S.
simply cannot afford the Army and Marine Corps strengths it now
has, which have risen by 65,000 and 27,000 active-duty
personnel, respectively, since Sept. 11, 2001. The Pentagon
itself  has called  for the Army to be cut to 490,000 active
troops from 520,000, and the Marines to 182,000 from 202,000. If
Romney thinks these cuts would imperil security, he should let
voters know exactly why he thinks the generals are wrong. And
though eliminating contractors is necessary, their ranks have
grown because they cost less, on average, than uniformed
personnel doing the same work.  Romney says that the military inventory is “largely
composed of weapons designed 40 to 50 years ago,” noting that
the average age of U.S. strategic bombers is 34 years. Well,
that’s because the B-52 bomber remains the world’s finest
strategic aircraft, and the fleet has been kept in fine working
order with a permanent refitting program. Today’s joint-force
mix of fighters, bombers, stealth craft, drones and cruise
missiles is vastly superior to what we had in the 1990s, even if
most of the actual hardware is dated.  Romney would be well advised to drop his talking points and
show, with nuance and specificity, how he can bring his
corporate skills to bear on the Pentagon’s bottom line.  For example, the Defense Department and Office of
Management and Budget seem intent on spreading budget cuts (and
the potentially devastating “sequestration” cuts that could hit
on Jan. 3) evenly across services and programs. A smart
businessman would make the case that certain parts of any
enterprise (such as the unnecessary Ford Class aircraft carrier,
the troubled littoral combat ship and the overbudget F-35
fighter) should be cut back or killed, while cost-effective
efforts geared toward tomorrow’s challenges (improved helicopter
lift, and drone and cyberwarfare capabilities) deserve greater
funding.  Command Consolidation  If Romney wants to target payroll bloat, he might look at
the military’s nine combat commands, where the number of staff
members per commander has increased by more than 50 percent in a
decade. A team from the  Center for a New American Security 
headed by Lieutenant General David W. Barno recommends
consolidating the geographic commands to four from the current
six, by merging the U.S. European Command with the Africa
Command and combining the North American and South American
commands. Plenty of  Bain Capital ’s takeover targets were
drowning under  retirement plans , good practice for taking on the
military’s Tricare health-insurance plan, which has had a 300
percent cost increase since 2001.  Romney, who has slammed  China  on trade issues, might want
to question the Obama administration’s much-vaunted pivot to
 Asia . The administration has barely explained what the pivot
will entail, other than that it will be based on an air-sea
battle platform in which the services are going to have to learn
to work together and coordinate their capabilities. Isn’t this
exactly the sort of reorganization Romney undertook at
inefficient companies? Let him tell us how he would accomplish
it.  There are plenty of other relatively simple efficiencies
worth endorsing that could be talking points in a presidential
stump speech or debate: moving an attack submarine from a home
port on the U.S. Pacific coast to one in  Guam  or  Australia  would
almost triple its mission days to more than 100 a year and save
perhaps $100 million; analyst  Michael O’Hanlon  of the  Brookings
Institution  projects that simple improvements in ways  Navy crews
are rotated  could improve deployment efficiency by as much as 40
percent and save $100 billion a year.  Romney’s critics have argued that the president cannot be a
“CEO in chief,” and indeed the office demands more than
corporate expertise. The Pentagon, however, is in many ways best
seen as a business -- an inefficient, money-wasting behemoth
that is truly too big to fail. It’s up to the private-equity
mogul to tell voters how he would turn it around.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Libor-rigging ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  Jews’ “obsession” with the Holocaust ;  Ramesh Ponnuru 
on why we shouldn’t forget about  Social Security’s problems ;
William Pesek on  South Korea’s presidential election ; Fouad
Ajami on  Obama’s callow cruelty on Syria  extending to Lebanon;
 Stephen Smith  on the inflated  cost of U.S. commuter trains . 