-- Russia Stocks Fall First Day in Three on Oil; Federal Grid Drops
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-08-27T16:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/russia-stocks-tumble-before-bernanke-speech-federal-grid-falls.html
Russian stocks  fell for the first
time in three days as crude oil declined and analysts speculated
global leaders may fail to signal more stimulus measures.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  declined 0.4 percent to 1,448.57 by the
close in Moscow. Federal Grid Co. slumped 2 percent, while OAO
MRSK Holding, a Russian electricity distributor, dropped 1.8
percent. OAO Surgutneftegas, an  oil company , and OAO Novatek, a
natural gas and liquids producer, both slipped 0.8 percent. OAO
Aeroflot, the national carrier, added 1.7 percent.  Oil,  Russia ’s chief export earner, declined 1.2 percent to
$94.97 in  New York . U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke   -- returning this week to the scene of a 2010 speech
that foreshadowed a second round of quantitative easing -- may
disappoint investors looking for him to signal new stimulus,
economists said before his Aug. 31 speech at the Fed’s annual
symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “The markets are looking to the end of the week, Bernanke
is unlikely to implement more easing measures,”  Mark Rubinstein , head of research at Metropol IFC, said by phone.
“It’s a seasonally slow week, very low volume trading.”  The volume of shares traded in the Micex was 52 percent
lower than the daily average of the past 30 days as  London  was
closed for a public holiday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Bernanke Expectations  China ’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for extra measures to
support exports and help meet economic targets, the official
Xinhua News Agency said Aug. 25.  “This week, the discussion on markets will likely be
dominated by what to expect” from Bernanke, Troika Dialog chief
strategist  Chris Weafer  said in a research note. “Markets will
also be sensitive to any further comments from German leaders”
and the  European Central Bank  concerning  Greece ’s request to
restructure its bailout deal, he said.  Billionaire  Vladimir Lisin ’s OAO Novolipetsk Steel,
Russia’s steelmaker, rose 0.4 percent. Preferred shares of OAO
Transneft gained 0.6 percent.  OAO Mobile Telesystems dropped 0.3 percent to $18.235 at
11:43 a.m. in New York before Russia’s biggest mobile phone
company announces earnings tomorrow. Otkritie Capital cut MTS to
hold from buy on the weaker ruble and reduced its price estimate
for American depositary receipts to $21 from $22.80, according
to today’s report.  Fund Outflows  Russia-dedicated equity funds posted outflows of $20
million in the week ended Aug. 22, compared with an inflow of
$23 million a week earlier, according to Troika Dialog, which
cited EPFR Global data.  The Micex trades at 5.4  times estimated earnings  after
gaining 3.3 percent this year. That compares with 10 times for
the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has added 4.9 percent.  Russian equities trade at the cheapest valuations among 21
emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg. The oil and gas industry
contribute about 50 percent to the government’s revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  