-- S. Korea Says Japan Free Trade Talks ‘Difficult’ Due to Tensions
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-08-27T05:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/s-korea-says-japan-free-trade-talks-difficult-due-to-tensions.html
South Korea  said resuming
negotiations with  Japan  over a free trade agreement will be
difficult given a maritime territorial spat.  “Soured relations between Korea and Japan pose a
difficulty for us,” head trade negotiator Choi Kyung Lim said
at a briefing today in Seoul. “It is difficult for us to decide
whether we will resume the talks unless these problems are
resolved.”  Choi’s comments were the latest indication economic ties
between  Asia ’s second and fourth-biggest economies have soured
since South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s Aug. 10 visit to
rocky islets claimed by both nations. Japan last week said the
spat threatens a bond purchase deal that was aimed to strengthen
regional cooperation in the face of global uncertainty.  “The deal won’t progress for years with the relationship
between the two sides this bad,” said Kim Hyung Joo, an
economist at the LG Economics Research Institute in Seoul.
“There may be working-level discussions, but it will be all-
talk, no-action in this climate.”  Japan is South Korea’s second-biggest trading partner, and
commerce between the two rose 16.8 percent to $108 billion in
2011, according to the Korea International Trade Association
website.  The two countries played diplomatic ping-pong last week
over a letter Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  wrote to
Lee protesting the visit to the rocks, known as Takeshima in
Japanese and Dokdo in Korean. South Korea returned the letter
without response because it referred to the islets by the
Japanese name. Japan’s foreign ministry initially refused to
accept the returned letter.  Noda on Aug. 24 said Japan will increase security around
its outlying islands given separate disputes with South Korea
and  China . He called South Korea’s occupation of the islets
“illegal.”  The islets are 87 kilometers (54 miles) east of the closest
South Korean territory and 158 kilometers from the nearest
Japanese land. Sovereignty over the area means control of
fishing grounds and natural gas reserves, and South Korea has
bolstered its claims by stationing coast guard personnel there
year-round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  