-- Samsung to Buy 3% Stake in ASML for 503 Million Euros
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-08-27T09:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/samsung-to-buy-3-stake-in-asml-for-503-million-euros.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  agreed to
invest 779 million euros ($974 million) in  ASML Holding NV (ASML) ,
joining  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.
in taking a stake in  Europe ’s largest chip-equipment maker to
secure future technology.  Samsung will buy a 3 percent equity holding in Veldhoven,
Netherlands-based ASML for 503 million euros and invest a
further 276 million euros in research and development of next-
generation lithography technologies, ASML said today.  The deal completes ASML’s so-called co-investment program
announced in July, with which the company seeks to accelerate
product development. Samsung, Intel and TSMC have now agreed to
buy 23 percent of ASML for 3.85 billion euros, and the Dutch
manufacturer said it no longer plans to solicit the
participation of other customers.  “ASML is getting the maximum amount to fund research and
development costs, and Samsung opted for only a 3 percent equity
stake instead of the 5 percent that was still available,” said
Niels de Zwart, an analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam who
recommends holding ASML shares. “That is good news for existing
shareholders.”  ASML advanced 0.2 percent to 46.26 euros at 11:18 a.m.
Amsterdam time, giving the company a market value of 19.4
billion euros. Since the announcement of the program on July 9,
ASML has gained 16 percent.  ‘Win-Win’  Under the investment program, ASML will speed up the costly
development of extreme ultraviolet, or EUV, technology, which
will help shrink the size of chips while increasing their
capacity and speed for devices such as mobile phones and tablet
computers.  The funding from Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, Intel
and TSMC should also allow ASML to step up the transition to a
new chipmaking standard that relies on 450-millimeter disks of
silicon, compared with the current 300-millimeter standard, a
shift that will enable manufacturers to produce more chips
faster.  The investment program is “a win-win,” giving ASML
funding and allowing the shareholders to benefit from a possible
appreciation in the company’s value, ASML Chief Executive
Officer Eric Meurice said after announcing the plan last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  