-- Sands China Sees Macau Pick Up, Says No Illegal Activity
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-08-28T08:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/sands-china-sees-macau-pick-up-says-no-illegal-activity.html
Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the Asian unit of
 Sheldon Adelson ’s U.S. casino operator, expects growth to pick
up next year in Macau and said it has followed regulations in
its home territory and Las Vegas.  More hotel rooms and transportation to Macau will aid
growth in the world’s largest gambling hub next year, Sands
 China ’s Chief Executive Officer Edward Tracy said in an
interview in  Hong Kong  yesterday. The company, which is being
investigated by the Macau government in connection with data
transfers to the U.S., doesn’t engage in any “crimes or any
illegal activities,” he said.  Sands China is facing weaker growth in the former
Portuguese colony this year as  China’s economy  slows and high-
stake gamblers cut spending. The company and its U.S. parent  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  are also under greater scrutiny amid the Macau
investigation and probes by U.S. regulators.  “We not only abided by the rules in Macau, we also abided
by the rules in Las Vegas,” Tracy said, while declining to
comment on specific investigations.  Sands China shares closed up 2.2 percent at HK$27.70 at the
4 p.m. close in Hong Kong. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  gained
0.07 percent.  The company’s Venetian Macau Ltd. subsidiary is being
investigated by the Macau government in connection with the
transfer of data to the U.S.  Steven Jacobs , the former Sands
China chief executive officer who is suing the company, has in
filings said that a large amount of evidence in his case has
been transported from Macau to the U.S.  More Growth  The company is “cautiously optimistic” about revenue
growth this year, Tracy said. Macau’s gambling revenue rose 1.5
percent to 24.6 billion patacas ($3.08 billion) in July, the
slowest pace since June 2009, on easing demand and the effects
of a typhoon. The casino operator expects to add about 200 more
gambling tables next year, when growth is likely to pick up.  “Macau will have new supply, new hotel rooms, and new
facilities,” Tracy said. “It will keep growing.”  Other  casino  operators are predicting a similar pick up in
Macau.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) ’s Chief Financial Officer
 Robert Drake  in an interview today said the mass market will
grow 25 percent to 30 percent in 2013, higher than the “high-
teens growth” expected this year. He projected 8 percent to 15
percent growth for the VIP, or high-stakes gambling, industry
next year.  Taipei Resort  Sands is interested in building a resort in Taipei that
would be the size of its Venetian Macau gambling center, if it
can get government permission, Tracy said. Casinos aren’t
allowed in Taiwan, only on offshore islands. Taiwan legalized
casinos on its outlying islands in January 2009, allowing
Kinmen, Matsu and Penghu to open casinos pending referendum
approval.  “We like the demographics in Taipei, we think there’s
enough population to support an integrated resort,” Tracy said.
“We’re not looking at any outlying islands.”  Sands would also be interested in expanding to  Vietnam ,
 Japan  and South Korea if it can get government permissions to
set up casinos in those countries, Tracy said.  Macau Investigation  The Macau government’s Office For Personal Data Protection
confirmed via e-mail this month that it has started an
investigation into whether the Venetian Macau breached local
rules.  Jacobs’ filings have said that among missing documents are
e-mails outlining Sands’s strategy of allowing prostitutes in
casinos and its hiring of a casino attorney who also represents
the Macau government. Las Vegas Sands responded in a July filing
that Jacobs’s claims regarding it having a “prostitution
strategy” were reckless, irrelevant and false.  Las Vegas Sands in 2011 received a subpoena from the
Securities and Exchange Commission requesting the company
produce documents relating to its compliance with the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. The company has said the  Department of
Justice  was conducting a similar investigation.  The subpoena may also have emanated from allegations
contained in the Jacobs lawsuit, Las Vegas Sands  has said  in
corporate filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  