-- Shearman & Sterling, Cleary, Merrill: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-08-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/shearman-sterling-cleary-merrill-business-of-law.html
Former brokers of  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit asked a federal judge to
approve a $40 million settlement in a lawsuit over deferred
compensation.  Charles McCallum , a lawyer for the brokers, told U.S.
District Judge Alison Nathan on Aug. 24 in Manhattan federal
court that the proposed settlement would cover more than 1,400
people. The judge said she will rule later on preliminary
approval.  The lawsuit, filed by Scott Chambers and John Burnette,
relates to Bank of America’s 2009 purchase of the investment
firm. The brokers alleged in their complaint that they were
entitled to cash distributions stemming from a change in control
of Merrill Lynch.  “We’re hopeful, given the nature of the settlement and the
amount involved, the settlement will be well-received,”
McCallum, lawyer at McCallum Hoaglund Cook & Irby LLP in
Vestavia Hills,  Alabama , told the judge.  William Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said in a phone interview that the firm
“agreed to a resolution to avoid the cost and distraction of
what would likely be continued, lengthy litigation.”  The case is Chambers v. Merrill Lynch & Co., 10-cv-07109,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Stem-Cell Funding Challenge Rejected by U.S. Appeals Court  A lawsuit challenging U.S. funding for human embryonic
stem-cell research was rejected by a federal appeals court in
 Washington , which upheld a lower court’s ruling dismissing the
case.  A three judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Washington on Aug. 24 said that U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth “committed no error” when he threw out the lawsuit
filed by  James Sherley , a researcher at  Boston  Biomedical
Research Institute, and Theresa Deisher, founder of AVM
Biotechnology in  Seattle . Lamberth, in his July 2011 dismissal
ruling, cited an earlier appeals court finding that the
government-backed research is probably lawful.  The two doctors sought to block the U.S. Health and Human
Services Department and the  National Institutes of Health  from
spending federal funds on research involving human embryonic
 stem cells , arguing it violates a law known as the Dickey-Wicker
Amendment.  The 1996 statute bars government spending on research that
damages or destroys a human embryo. In a 2-1 decision in April
2011, the appeals court let the funding continue while Lamberth
considered a final ruling. The appellate panel said the language
of the statute wouldn’t support a funding cutoff.  The case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 11-5241, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  Deals  Codelco, Anglo Settle Dispute Over Fifth-Biggest Copper Mine  Codelco, the biggest copper producer, reached an agreement
with  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  to end a 10-month dispute over the
world’s fifth-largest copper mine.  Partners George Casey and Michael McGuinness and counsel
Heiko Schiwek of Shearman & Sterling LLP represented Anglo
American. Partners Jeffrey Lewis and Duane McLaughlin, and
counsel Grant Binder of  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP 
represent Codelco.  According to terms of the deal released last week, Anglo
American will reduce its stake in its Sur unit, which owns the
Los Bronces mine in central  Chile , to 50.1 percent from 75.5
percent. A joint venture between Codelco and  Mitsui & Co. (8031)  will
buy 29.5 percent of Sur in a cash deal valued at about
$2.8 billion.  The arrangement ends a feud that began Oct. 12 when Codelco
announced it secured financing from Mitsui to take up an option
to acquire 49 percent of Sur for about $6 billion. Anglo reacted
by selling a 24.5 percent stake to  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  in November
in a deal that valued Sur at twice that of the Codelco option.
Anglo American and Codelco halted legal proceedings in June to
seek an out-of-court settlement.  “The combination of Anglo American, Codelco, Mitsubishi
and Mitsui forms a compelling proposition for future investment
in the Los Bronces district,” Anglo Chief Executive Officer
Cynthia Carroll said in the statement.  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP represented Mitsui. On the
Debevoise team are partners Maurizio Levi-Minzi, Craig A. Bowman, Gary M. Friedman and Christopher Smeall and counsel Kyra
K. Bromley.  For more on the deal, click here.  Law Schools  Stanford Law Makes Course, Career Guide Available to Public  In a move akin to open source software,  Stanford Law School 
has created an online career and curriculum guide that enables
law students to learn about legal careers and shape their course
choices for those careers.  The content of the guide is based on interviews with
faculty, alumni, practicing attorneys and other legal
professionals. It is geared around offerings throughout  Stanford
University  and incorporates more than 1,500 courses that may be
useful to the school’s law students as they consider different
specialties.  Called the  SLSNavigator , the guide is the brainchild of
Larry Kramer, the outgoing dean of the law school.  “Most law schools teach students how to spot problems, but
not how to solve problems,” Kramer said in a telephone
interview. There is “no generic problem-solving class,” he
said. “An environmental lawyer faces different problems than a
corporate lawyer.”  By spelling out “what lawyers do and what skills they
have,” Kramer said the guide can show students “the
foundational requirements” for particular careers.  The guide was created as part of broader curriculum changes
at the law school undertaken during Kramer’s tenure. He is
leaving to head the  William and Flora Hewlett Foundation .  The school decided to release it to the public because it
could be “of use to students anywhere,” Kramer said.  Moves  Milbank Tweed Adds New Partner in London Office  Clive Ransome, formerly a partner in the London office of
Linklaters LLP, left to join the London office of Milbank Tweed
Hadley & McCloy LLP.  Ransome, an energy and infrastructure lawyer, will join the
firm’s global project finance group. Ransome’s experience
includes power, refinery, liquid natural gas and petrochemical
projects in Europe, the  Middle East  and Asia.  “We have long known and worked with Clive in both London
and Asia, and we are confident that he has the experience and
relationships to help reinforce and expand our energy and
natural resources practice,” Phillip Fletcher, practice group
leader of Milbank’s Global Project Finance group, said in a
statement.  Ransome is the fourth new partner to join Milbank’s London
office in the past three months. In May, the firm announced the
arrival of corporate lawyer Mark Stamp from Linklaters.  In June, Nicholas Spearing joined from Freshfields as the
office’s first competition/antitrust partner. This month, Neil
Caddy joined from Mayer Brown to expand the firm’s leveraged
finance practice.  Milbank has 575 lawyers worldwide.  Intellectual Property Attorney Joins McCarter & English  Thomas O. Hoover, an intellectual-property lawyer, joined
the Boston office of McCarter & English LLP as a partner.  He focuses his practice on patent, trademark and copyright
law. He previously was with Weingarten, Schurgin, Gagnebin &
Lebovici LLP in Boston.  “His technical background and legal experience are a great
benefit to our clients and we’re delighted to have him on
board,” said Elizabeth A. Hanley, leader of the firm’s IP
group.  Hoover’s practice includes the prosecution of patents
before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, patent appeals and
opposition proceedings in foreign jurisdictions, the firm said
in a statement. He also has been involved in trade-secret and
infringement litigation. Hoover has experience in industries
including medical devices and imaging technologies,
semiconductors and optics.  McCarter’s IP group has more than 90 lawyers and patent
agents. The firm has 400 attorneys nationwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  