-- Shell Seeks to Extend ’12 Oil-Drilling Time in U.S. Chukchi Sea
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-27T16:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/shell-seeks-to-extend-12-oil-drilling-time-in-u-s-chukchi-sea.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is seeking
additional drilling time in the Chukchi Sea off  Alaska  as delays
have cost the company about two months of exploration this year.  Shell has spent $4.5 billion to obtain drilling rights,
purchase equipment and procure permits from various federal
agencies in pursuit of an underwater supply of oil estimated at
more than 20 billion barrels.  While the company initially planned to begin in July, ice
that remained longer than usual and Coast Guard concerns with a
spill-containment barge, the Arctic Challenger, delayed the
start and caused Shell to cut the number of wells planned for
this year from five to one or two.  Shell is still waiting for clearance to begin drilling. It
filed a request with the U.S. Interior Department at the end of
last week for about two weeks more to drill once it gets under
way, Kelly op de Weegh, a Shell spokeswoman, said by phone
today.  “Ice forecast is indicating just under two more weeks of
open water,” she said. “Because we could remain in the open
water longer, it could also potentially allow us to drill even
in the hydrocarbons zone past the Sept. 24 date.”  Drilling was to end by Sept. 24 in the  Chukchi Sea , and
Oct. 31 in the   Beaufort Sea  -- and can’t resume until July --
under the terms of permits Shell has already obtained.  Shell also asked Interior for approval to do some
preparation work in the Arctic, such as digging holes for
blowout preventers -- devices designed to avert spills -- on the
sea floor, before the Hague-based company gets the final permit
to drill, op de Weegh said.  Drillships Kulluk and Noble Discoverer departed from Dutch
Harbor, Alaska, to the exploration sites earlier this month and
are expected to arrive around Sept. 3, she said.  The Interior Department didn’t reply to emails and phone
calls seeking comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  