-- Social Security’s Woes Are Worse Than You Think
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-08-27T22:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/social-security-s-woes-are-worse-than-you-think.html
While the Romney and Obama
camps have made increasingly bitter accusations about each
other’s plans for Medicare,  a bipartisan consensus on
entitlements has emerged in the past few years. Too bad
that consensus is wrong.  On both left and right, the politicians and the
experts are saying the U.S. needs to fix Medicare -- and
have made fixing  Social Security  an afterthought. President
 Barack Obama  has signed changes to Medicare into law, but
has done nothing about Social Security. For two years in a
row, Republicans in Congress have supported budgets that
rein in the growth of Medicare spending but leave Social
Security alone. Expect to hear a lot more about Medicare
than Social Security at the Republican convention this
week.  The main reason Medicare is getting more attention is
that in the long run, it has much higher costs than Social
Security. That’s why it’s often described, accurately, as
the driver of America’s long-term debt problem.  The Social Security gap looks small, though, only in
relation to Medicare. On any other scale, it’s pretty big.
The 1983 deal to fix Social Security is often held up as a
model of bipartisan achievement, with the implication that
it just needs to be replicated to fill the gap: No big
deal. Charles Blahous, a Social Security trustee and the
author of a recent book on the program, points out that
this model is actually pretty discouraging.  Twice as Large  In 1983, the financing gap over the next 75 years
amounted to 1.8 percent of payroll. Blahous estimates that
the gap today, measured using the same standards as in
1983, is 3.5 percent: almost double what it was then. And
every year that passes without action, that number gets
bigger. Do we think today’s politicians are prepared to
solve twice as large a problem as their predecessors did?  Right now, we spend more money on Social Security than
on Medicare, and that will remain the case for a while. The
programs’ trustees  project  that by 2035 Social Security
will consume 6.4 percent of the economy and Medicare 5.7
percent. The Medicare projection may be optimistic about
recent attempts to impose cost controls, but we shouldn’t
expect Medicare to become vastly larger than Social
Security in the next two decades. After that point, Social
Security costs start going down as demographics play out
while Medicare becomes a vastly larger problem.  But our finances will be in what’s technically called
a world of hurt before Social Security costs peak. Under
 current projections  by the  Congressional Budget Office , by
2025 public debt will have reached 106 percent of gross
domestic product. By 2035, it will have reached 181
percent. What would happen after that point is an academic
question: We can’t allow ourselves to get there.  We need to fix both programs. If anything, it’s Social
Security that ought to be saved first because it’s the more
urgent near-term problem. Some of the steps we can take to
make the program solvent, moreover, would improve
Medicare’s finances, too. Raising the  retirement age , for
example, would encourage people to work longer and thus pay
more taxes into both programs.  Restraining Growth  Perhaps even more important, we have a better sense of
how to restrain the growth of Social Security than of
Medicare.  One promising option is to reduce the growth of Social
Security benefit levels, especially for high earners. The
program could be reformed so that high earners who retire
in 2040 receive the same benefit level that high earners
who retire in 2020 will -- with an adjustment for
inflation, but nothing more. Under the program as it stands
now, those future retirees will get a bigger benefit.  Benefit levels for people in the middle of the income
spectrum, meanwhile, could be set so that they more than
keep up with inflation but don’t rise as much as currently
scheduled.  It’s easy to attack this sort of proposal. In the
past, opponents have said, for example, that it would be a
draconian 40 percent cut in benefits for high earners.
That’s true, when the proposal is compared with the benefit
levels that the law has scheduled but hasn’t figured out
how to pay for. Compared with today’s benefit levels,
though, it’s not a cut at all.  Democrats will prefer to raise taxes, especially on
high earners, to let benefits grow faster. The drawback to
this approach is that higher payroll taxes, the  CBO has
found , discourage people from working and saving. We would
be taking a hit to economic growth for a purpose --
boosting benefit levels for relatively well-off seniors --
that shouldn’t be a high social priority. It seems perverse
to raise taxes on high earners to finance higher benefits
for them.  Just to have that argument over taxes and benefit
levels would be progress. One way or the other, we need to
get Social Security’s finances in order, instead of acting
as though there’s no problem to be solved.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
senior editor at National Review. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials,
columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on applying  Mitt Romney ’s
business sense to defense and on  Libor-rigging ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on  Jews’ “obsession” with the Holocaust ; William
Pesek on  South Korea’s presidential election ; Fouad Ajami
on  Obama’s callow cruelty on Syria  extending to Lebanon;
 Stephen Smith  on the inflated  cost of U.S. commuter trains .
Today’s highlights:  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at  tlavin1@bloomberg.net  