-- Solar Panel Maker Doubles Output as Prices Drop: Corporate India
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 2012-08-28T09:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/solar-panel-maker-doubles-output-as-prices-drop-corporate-india.html
Surana Ventures Ltd. (SURA) , an Indian
maker of solar panels, is planning to double production after
oversupply from Chinese manufacturers pushed prices down by
almost 34 percent in the past year.  The company, based in the southern city of Hyderabad, plans
to increase output of panels to 30 megawatts this year and
invest 250 million rupees ($4.5 million) in a solar cell plant,
Managing Director Narender Surana said in an interview. Rising
demand for alternative energy driven by coal supply bottlenecks
and blackouts may help reverse a slide in revenue, he said.  Surana is counting on one of the fastest-growing solar
markets where larger local rivals including  Moser Baer India
Ltd. (MBI) , the country’s biggest maker, and  Indosolar Ltd. (ISLR)  are
struggling to cope with the crash in prices. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s government seeks to turn India into a global
hub with rules to help almost triple manufacturing capacity to 5
gigawatts by 2020.  “The shortage in coal supply is a great opportunity for us
as more and more people are looking at solar energy as a viable
alternative,” Surana said. “As India’s energy needs rise, the
shift towards solar power shall become more pronounced.”  Sales, which slid 29 percent in the year ended March 31 to
727 million rupees, may jump 38 percent in the current financial
year to 1 billion rupees, Surana said.  Stock Slide  Shares of the company have  slumped  71 percent since
touching 65 rupees on its debut in Mumbai on Jan. 7, 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock fell 2.6
percent to 18.5 rupees as of 2:32 p.m. in Mumbai trading today.  India  is struggling to add electricity generation capacity
to meet peak demand. Power cuts are common across the country,
which battles an average 9 percent shortfall that the government
says shaves about 1.2 percentage points off annual economic
growth. The South Asian country has missed every annual capacity
target since 1951, with 76,000 megawatts targeted for the five
years ending March 2017.  A shortage of coal and gas used in conventional thermal
plants has prompted the government to set a sun-power generation
target of 20 gigawatts by 2022, a 20-fold increase.  Welspun
Energy Ltd. , the country’s biggest developer of solar projects,
said last month that the nation will surpass the target in the
next decade by twofold.  Idle Capacity  The biggest panel suppliers including  China ’s  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  and Tempe, Arizona-based  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  say India
is about to become one of the fastest-growing solar markets,
countering waning demand in Europe where governments are cutting
back clean-energy subsidies.  Surana may be putting up the investment, anticipating such
a surge in demand, even though solar-panel makers in India have
almost 80 percent of their capacity lying idle now, said  Bharat Bhushan , a New Delhi-based analyst for Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  India is soon set to release a 3 gigawatt capacity plan for
the next four years and it will have a domestic content
requirement, Bhushan said.  “The home market is the big hope for solar manufacturers
in India,” Bhushan said. “The government has already been
promoting the use of locally made cells and modules,” which
will be extended in the next phase, he said.  First Solar, the only profitable panel maker among the 10
biggest in the world, plans to develop solar farms in India,
with demand coming from industrial and commercial users without
any government subsidies involved, Sujoy Ghosh, the India head
of the world’s biggest thin-film panel maker, said last week.  Debt Revamp  A lot of investment planned for thermal projects will go to
renewables, Welspun Energy’s Managing Director Vineet Mittal
said last month. Indian power utilities have stalled plans to
invest about $34 billion to build 42 gigawatts of capacity as
coal output fails to meet demand.  The oversupply of solar panels has claimed at least 14
U.S., German and French makers, while prices have plunged 34
percent in the past year amid dwindling demand in  Europe , the
largest market for the equipment. Moser Baer said in May that it
was revamping 35 billion rupees of secured debt and selling
bonds to pay off dollar-convertible notes.  Surana faces the threat of competition from Chinese makers
that are bigger in size and capacity, said Vishal Kothari, a
power analyst at JHP Securities Pvt. in Mumbai, adding it will
be difficult for a small company to succeed when bigger ones
have failed.  Dim Outlook  “I don’t see any major growth in this sector as the cost
of generation is too high and competition is too much,” said
Kothari, who doesn’t have a rating for the stock. “Surana’s
performance has been volatile historically.”  Surana Ventures was spun off from the solar business of
 Surana Telecom & Power Ltd. (SRTL)  in November 2009 and started trading
about a year later.  Bhagyanagar India Ltd. (BHIL) , the parent company,
holds about 24 percent of the solar-panel maker, while the phone
company owns about 18 percent.  Access to the group’s cash will allow Surana Ventures to
buy raw materials from distressed European companies at half the
cost, said Surana.  Cash reserves  and equivalent at Bhagyanagar
rose sevenfold to 95 million rupees as of March 31 from 12
months earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Surana
Ventures had 252 million rupees of debt in the period.  “This gives us an edge when we bid for contracts,” Surana
said. “It also helps in pricing our products competitively.”  The company is also exploring opportunities after the
country’s phone regulator this year recommended that carriers
shift to renewable energy from diesel to power their
communication towers, he said.  “With the cost of equipment coming down drastically, the
cost of generating solar power has also fallen,” he said.
“Solar is more attractive than other forms of alternative
energy and we expect state governments to encourage setting up
of projects as well. That will provide a big boost to us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  