-- Korea’s Rating Raised by Moody’s on Resilience to Shocks
-- B y   P a u l   P a n c k h u r s t   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-08-27T06:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/south-korea-s-rating-raised-by-moody-s-on-resilience-to-shocks.html
South Korea ’s sovereign debt rating
was raised by Moody’s Investors Service to a par with Japan’s
after Asia’s fourth-largest economy strengthened its resilience
to crises.  “Korea’s strong fiscal fundamentals enable a relatively
large degree of policy space to cope with contingent domestic
risks and external shocks,” Moody’s said in a statement today.
The company elevated South Korea one step to Aa3, the fourth-
highest ranking and one also shared with  China .  The upgrade is a vote of confidence in President  Lee Myung Bak ’s efforts to strengthen the nation’s ability to cope with
financial turbulence even as his popularity wanes ahead of the
end of a five-year term. The move also reflects South Korea’s
fiscal discipline, with government debt at 33 percent of gross
domestic product, against 108 percent for advanced economies as
a whole, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “The fiscal situation is the strongest aspect of Korea’s
economy,” said Lim Ji Won, an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Seoul. “A lot depends on how the government deals with the
aging problem in the longer term, but in the next few years the
fiscal situation will be relatively strong.”  Like Japan, South Korea’s population is aging after its
birth-rate declined, potentially imposing a higher pension-cost
burden on the economy as fewer workers support greater numbers
of retirees.  Bond Yields  South Korean sovereign credit default swaps fell two basis
points to 104 basis points as of 1:52 p.m. in Seoul, according
to prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The gauge has
declined from 117 basis points at the start of the month,
according to data provider CMA.  The yield on 3.25 percent government notes due in June 2015
declined two basis points to 2.82 percent, the lowest since Aug.
10, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.  Bond-market history indicates that the utility of sovereign
ratings may be limited. Almost half the time, yields on
 government bonds  fall when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service suggests they should climb, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook
changes going back as far as the 1970s.  After S&P stripped  France  and the U.S. of AAA grades,
 interest rates  paid by the countries to finance their deficits
dropped rather than rose.  Fitch, S&P  Fitch Ratings  has South Korea at A+ for its
foreign-currency, long-term debt, the fifth-highest rating.
 Standard & Poor’s  ranks the nation one level lower, at A.  Export competitiveness will help the nation to rebound from
a slowdown as global growth recovers, Moody’s said. The nation’s
banks have been strengthened by improved regulation and a
reduction in reliance on short-term external financing, it said.  The risk of a collapse in North  Korea  during the transition
to a new leadership “is diminishing,” Moody’s also said today.
Kim Jong Un in December became the third generation in his
family to lead the North since its formation after World War II,
with little public sign of resistance to the succession.  “The North Korean risk is and will always be there, but it
seems the risk is increasingly known and stabilized,” said
Kim Yong Hyun, a professor of North Korean studies at  Dongguk
University .  Any eventual reunification with North Korea, which has
relied on foreign aid to feed itself, could pose a fiscal hit to
the South, Lim said.  Emerging Economies  Today’s move by Moody’s underscores an appeal to the
country that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has highlighted as an
alternative to investing in the so-called BRIC nations.  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
who coined the term BRIC for Brazil, Russia, India and China, is
using MIST for Mexico,  Indonesia , South Korea and  Turkey  --
nations he considers to be among the next big 11  emerging
markets .  South Korea “happens to be the only populated country that
in my lifetime has transformed its income from that of an
African country to being that of a G-7 country,” O’Neill said
before today’s announcement. “It’s an example that all these
other countries can learn from.”  Lee, 70, made strengthening the international financial
safety net a priority of South Korea’s leadership of the Group
of 20 nations during its tenure in 2010. He has also overseen an
expansion in currency swaps agreements with  Japan  and China in
recent years.  A former chief executive officer of Hyundai Engineering &
Construction Co., Lee has seen support slide since his 2007
victory after failure to deliver on a campaign pledge to boost
wage growth and an aborted effort to enact a second round of tax
cuts in three years for the chaebol, as the nation’s industrial
groups are known. He’s constitutionally barred from seeking re-
election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  