-- Sprint Joins GE in Leaving Policy Group Backing Voter-ID Laws
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-08-28T04:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/sprint-joins-ge-in-leaving-policy-group-backing-voter-id-laws.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  joined the exodus of companies from the American
Legislative Exchange Council following the group’s support of
voter-identification and self-defense laws.  Spokesmen for both companies said yesterday they are ending
their membership with the Washington-based public policy
organization, which charged corporations as much as $25,000 and
allowed them to help write bills that some lawmakers then tried
to enact in their home states.  Western Union Co. (WU)  also has left ALEC, spokesman Tom
Fitzgerald said.  GE, Sprint and Western Union were among those lobbied to
quit the group by  ColorofChange.org , a New York-based civil
rights organization that has counted more than three dozen
companies that have ended their ALEC memberships, including
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Walgreen Co. (WAG)   “These significant developments, coupled with recent
withdrawals from ALEC by companies like Walgreens and GM,
further prove that everyday people working together to hold
corporations accountable can achieve tremendous change,” said
Rashad Robinson, executive director of ColorOfChange.org.  ’Ongoing Review’  A spokeswoman for Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, Lindsay
Lorraine, said the company left ALEC “in connection with our
ongoing review of the political and policy organizations we
belong to.”  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint was solely involved in
telecommunications issues with ALEC and participated on a
communications task force “to ensure that Sprint’s voice is
heard by state lawmakers,” said  John Taylor , a spokesman.  Kaitlyn Buss, a spokeswoman for ALEC, said Sprint “simply
decided not to renew.”  She has previously decried “this corporate intimidation
and bully campaign” to get companies to exit ALEC, saying it
was “politics at its worst and should be ignored.”  Those praising the departures included Bob Edgar, president
of  Common Cause , a Washington-based advocacy group that has
challenged ALEC’s tax-exempt status on the basis that it is a
lobbying organization.  “Clearly the light bulb has gone on at General Electric
that ALEC’s extreme agenda is not good for business,” said
Edgar, a former Democratic congressman from Pennsylvania.  ALEC has been criticized for advocating the “Stand Your
Ground” laws that allow individuals who feel threatened in a
public space to fight back rather than retreat.  Florida Killing  A state version of the law was cited by authorities in
Sanford, Florida, when they didn’t initially arrest George
Zimmerman, who claimed self-defense in the killing of teenager
Trayvon Martin in February. Zimmerman later was charged with
second-degree murder and has pleaded not guilty.  ALEC also has pushed for voter-identification laws, which
the U.S. Justice Department has blocked from taking effect in
 South Carolina  and Texas, saying they discriminate against
minorities.  Studies by the Brennan Center for Justice at  New York 
University Law School said voter-ID laws disproportionately
affect groups that tend to vote Democratic, studies show. The
center reported that 25 percent of voting-age blacks, 16 percent
of voting-age Hispanics and 15 percent of voting-age Americans
in households earning less than $35,000 lack the IDs required by
the laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Tampa, Florida, at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 