-- Storm Isaac May Become Hurricane on Katrina Anniversary
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-27T13:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/storm-isaac-may-become-hurricane-on-katrina-anniversary.html
Tropical Storm Isaac churned through
the  Gulf of Mexico  on a path toward offshore oil and gas
operations and may go ashore near  New Orleans  on the seventh
anniversary of Katrina’s devastating strike.  Gasoline and natural gas futures rose and some offshore
production was halted as a hurricane warning was posted along a
290-mile stretch from Louisiana to Florida. Isaac was about 360
miles (579 kilometers) south of mouth of the Mississippi River
with top winds of 65 miles per hour and moving west-northwest at
14 mph, the National Hurricane Center said  in an advisory  at 8
a.m. East Coast time.  “It looks like it hasn’t done a whole lot overnight,”
said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda, Maryland. “The key is going to be tonight and
tomorrow, and that may be the time for some potential rapid
development.”  Gasoline advanced 2.8 percent on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange as of 9:07 a.m. and natural gas climbed 1.3 percent.
The storm shut 24 percent of U.S. Gulf oil production and 8.2
percent of Gulf natural gas output, the  Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement  said yesterday. The region is home to
23 percent of U.S. oil production, 7 percent of natural gas and
44 percent of refining capacity.  The  Republican Party ’s national convention in Tampa was
pushed back a day from its scheduled start today even as Isaac
tracked west of earlier forecast paths that indicated it might
hug Florida’s western coast.  Storm Anniversary  The storm may go ashore in southeastern Louisiana early
Aug. 29 with winds peaking at Category 1 strength of 85 mph to
90 mph, according to the hurricane center. Katrina struck the
Gulf Coast on Aug. 29, 2005, causing levees to fail  in New
Orleans  and killing more than 1,800 people.  Isaac won’t have the power of Katrina when it hits, said
 Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in
Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  Current hurricane center forecasts call for Isaac to peak
at Category 1 strength on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson  scale.
Katrina grew into a Category 5 system, the strongest, and went
ashore as a Category 3, according to  Weather Underground  in Ann
Arbor, Michigan.  Isaac will probably cause minimal damage to rigs and
platforms as well as onshore refineries and pipelines, Rouiller
said.  Gulf Impact  “Shut-ins are widespread south and east of New Orleans,”
he said. “There could be a bullish market reaction this
morning. Most should be up and running by Friday morning.”  Andy Lipow , president of Houston-based Lipow Oil Associates
LLC, estimated yesterday that the storm may force shutdowns of
12 coastal refineries in Louisiana, Alabama and Mississippi that
together account for 16 percent of the nation’s gasoline
production capacity.  Phillips 66 (PSX)  is temporarily shutting down its 247,000
barrel-a-day Alliance refinery at Belle Chasse, Louisiana, the
company said in a statement on its website. The refinery
shutdown is expected to be completed today, and non-essential
staff have been released from work, the company said. The
239,000 barrel-a-day Lake Charles refinery at Westlake hasn’t
been affected by the storm, Phillips 66 said.  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  is initiating the shutdown of its
Garyville refinery in Louisiana because Isaac, Shane Pochard,
communications manager for the company, said in an e-mail today.
The plant has the ability to produce 460,000 barrels of oil per
day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rig Preparations  Companies including  BP Plc (BP/) , ConocoPhillips and Murphy Oil
Corp. were evacuating personnel or halting production at
offshore rigs and platforms. The  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port ,
the largest point of entry for crude coming into the U.S., said
it planned to suspend offloading tankers today.  Rogers said Isaac has potential to cause damage with  storm
surge  and wave height as it nears the shore. Waves 30 feet high
are possible, he said.  The hurricane center said if the surge strikes at high
tide, the ocean may rise 6-12 feet above normal across
southeastern Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. In addition,
the storm may bring as much as 18 inches of rain to the area.  Isaac flooded Haiti with heavy rains on its path through
the Atlantic and Caribbean and killed at least eight people
there, according to the  Associated Press .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  