-- Sweden’s Krona Slumps as Rate Cut Bets Grow: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-10-03T12:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/sweden-s-krona-strengthens-as-retail-sales-rise-stockholm-mover.html
Sweden ’s krona was the worst
performing major currency against the euro and the dollar amid
rising speculation the central bank will cut  interest rates 
again at the end of the month.  The krona fell 0.83 percent against the euro to 8.6093 and
traded 0.9 percent lower at 6.6662 per dollar as of 2:28 p.m. in
the Swedish capital. It slumped against all major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The krona “remains vulnerable after its strong third-
quarter run,” said Kit Juckes, the London-based head of
foreign-exchange research at Societe Generale SA, in a note
today. “The rate support it enjoys has all but gone away.”  A survey released today showed Sweden’s services economy
contracted in September, sinking at the fastest pace since
August 2009. That came after a manufacturing survey earlier this
week signaled a deepening contraction, as slumping demand from
 Europe  endangers growth in the largest Nordic economy.  Overnight index swaps in Sweden showed a probability of
35.7 percent that the Riksbank will cut by a quarter percentage
point later this month, up from 9.2 percent yesterday. By
December, the probability of a cut to 1 percent has risen to
43.2 percent, according to OIS implied probability calculated by
Bloomberg.  Policy makers, who cut rates last month for a third time
since December to 1.25 percent, estimated then they will keep
rates unchanged and then raise in a year as growth withstands a
contraction in the euro area. The bank said its September cut
was driven by the deepening debt crisis in Europe and a surge in
the Swedish currency to a 12-year high against the euro.  The Riksbank’s next interest rate decision is scheduled to
be announced on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  