-- Swedish Wind Power May Slow on Price, Subsidy, Association Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-08-27T09:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/swedish-wind-power-may-slow-on-price-subsidy-association-says.html
Electricity prices and subsidies at
current levels in  Sweden  may slow growth in wind power unless
decision-makers boost targets, according to the Swedish Wind
Energy Association.  The nation needs to raise its political objectives for
installing new wind power “if we are to avoid a steep slowdown
in the construction of turbine capacity,” Annika Helker
Lundstroem, the association’s managing director, said in an e-
mail last week. “Currently, low power prices and electricity-
certificate subsidies offer no room for raising targets.”  The association will update its forecast for growth in wind
power in October. Sweden’s Energy Agency, Energimyndigheten,
scaled back its outlook for wind-power production this year by
0.7 terawatt-hours to 7.1 terawatt-hours, it said Aug. 14 in a
 report  submitted to the government. The estimate for 2013 was
reduced to 8.1 terawatt-hours from a March forecast of 9
terawatt-hours, it said.  “Prices are low right now both for power and for
electricity certificates, which creates challenges for some
projects, though different companies are affected to highly
varying degrees,” Lundstroem said.  The Swedish government aims to raise annual wind-power
output to 30 terawatt-hours by 2020, while the Energy Agency
still expects a yearly increase rate of 2 terawatt-hours from
2014 through 2020, supported by subsidies paid to producers by
consumers via their monthly electricity bills, she said.  The average price for the electricity-certificate subsidy
for the past twelve months has been 199 kroner ($30) per
megawatt-hour, according to data on grid operator  Svenska
Kraftnaet’s website .  The Nordic power contract for 2013 was at 39.50 euros
($49.46) a megawatt-hour on Nasdaq OMX Inc.’s energy exchange in
Oslo today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  