-- France Urges Syrian Rebels to Form Post-Assad Government
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-08-28T06:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/syrian-helicopter-shot-down-in-damascus-after-244-killed.html
France  called on the Syrian
opposition to form a provisional government in anticipation of
the fall of President Bashar al-Assad as fighting intensified in
and around the capital.  Syrian government forces killed  231 people  across the
country yesterday including 148 in Damascus and its suburbs, the
opposition Local Coordination Committees said in an e-mailed
statement. Syrian rebels said yesterday they shot down a
helicopter and a MiG-21 warplane. Syrian military jets bombed
the Damascus neighborhoods of Qadam, Assali and Tadhamon
overnight, Al Arabiya television reported, citing activists.  Western nations are pressing the Syrian opposition to be
ready to fill the void if Assad’s rule collapses. French
President  Francois Hollande  said yesterday that he favors
establishing liberated zones in  Syria  and that the opposition
should form a transitional government.  “France asks the Syrian opposition to constitute a
provisional government that is inclusive, representative, that
can become the legitimate representative of the new Syria,”
Hollande said in a speech in Paris to his nation’s ambassadors.
“France would recognize the provisional government once it has
been formed.”  In  Washington , State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
didn’t endorse the French call for a provisional government. She
said it is up to the Syrian opposition to decide when it is
ready to take that step and called for any such development to
be “based on a solid, democratic plan” that reflects the
interests of a “broad cross-section” of Syrians.  Falling Plane  The Syrian Revolution General Commission’s website said
yesterday that rebels shot down a government helicopter over
Damascus. While the crash was confirmed by state television, the
broadcaster gave no details. The BBC and  Al Arabiya  showed video
of an aircraft falling to the ground in flames.  The rebel Free Syrian Army said it shot down a MiG-21 jet
fighter yesterday over Idlib province, Al Jazeera television
reported, citing rebels of the al-Haq brigade. There was no
independent confirmation of the rebel group’s claim, posted on
its Facebook page, that it captured the pilot.  Assad’s forces have used helicopter gunships, warplanes and
artillery in a bid to push anti-government fighters out of
Damascus and Aleppo, the country’s most populous city.  ‘Bad to Worse’  Egyptian security forces have arrested a Syrian national
who threatened to blow up the Arab League’s headquarters in
Cairo,  Egypt ’s official Middle East News Agency said. The man
said his car, parked in front of the league’s office, was laden
with explosives and threatened to detonate them if the group
doesn’t condemn Assad, the news agency said. The man had
recently been told his parents were killed in Syria during a
battle between government and opposition forces, MENA said.  The situation in Syria is going from “bad to worse,”  Arab
League  Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi was cited as saying Aug.
26 by MENA.  The bloodiest day since the uprising began 17 months ago
was Aug. 25, when 440 people were reported dead by the
opposition Local Coordination Committees. More than 23,000 lives
have been lost during the uprising, the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights estimates.  The Syrian Observatory and the LCC, a network of activists
within the country, are among several groups opposed to Assad’s
government that offer casualty numbers that can’t be
independently verified.  Assad vowed Aug. 26 to defeat the rebels “no matter the
cost” and reiterated his assertion that a “foreign plot” was
behind the violence, according to the state-run Syrian Arab  News
Agency .  Assad and most top officials come from the Alawite sect,
affiliated with Shiite Islam, while the majority of Syria’s
population and many leaders of the armed uprising are Sunni.  The number of refugees who have fled Syria has exceeded
202,000, the  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees  said
on Aug. 24. Registered refugees included 61,000 in  Jordan ,
51,000 in Lebanon, 16,000 in  Iraq  and 74,000 in  Turkey , it said,
though many other Syrians fled without registering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  