-- U.K. Mortgage Bonds Trade at Best Levels Since ’08 on Haven Bid
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-08-27T10:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/u-k-mortgage-bonds-trade-at-best-levels-since-08-on-haven-bid.html
Mortgage bonds in the U.K.,  Europe ’s
biggest market, are trading at their best levels in 4 1/2 years
as buyers shrug off the impact of a worsening economy and seek
top-rated alternatives to benchmark government debt.  Investors demand 95 basis points more than the euro
interbank offered  rate  to hold five-year bonds backed by prime
U.K. home loans, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. That’s the
first time the spread has narrowed to less than 100 basis
points, or a percentage point, since February 2008.  “We expect the tightening trend to continue as the search
for yield goes on,” said Markus Ernst, a strategist at
UniCredit SpA in Munich. “U.K. prime RMBS are characterized by
a sound fundamental performance despite a challenging economic
and housing-market environment in the country.”  Fund managers seeking a haven from the euro-region crisis
are stoking demand for bonds pooling British home loans even as
the continent’s third-biggest economy wallows in a double-dip
recession. U.K. residential mortgage-backed securities offer top
ratings and low defaults while at the same time paying investors
a return when yields on  government bonds  from countries such as
 Germany  have turned  negative .  Stable Performance  The performance of the mortgages underpinning the U.K.
bonds has remained stable amid Europe’s sovereign debt woes,
with outstanding repossessions at 0.2 percent and cumulative
losses at 0.3 percent as of the end of May, Moody’s Investors
Service said in a July 31 report.  That’s despite Britain’s economy  shrinking  0.5 percent in
the three months through June, the third straight quarter of
contraction, according to official figures published Aug. 24.
U.K.  house prices  fell for a second month in August as demand
declined amid a “fragile” market, London-based property-research
company Hometrack Ltd. said today.  U.K. residential mortgage bonds are the most popular asset-
backed securities in Europe, with 20 billion euros ($25 billion)
of primary sales this year out of a total market of 43 billion
euros, according to JPMorgan data.  Supply has been hurt by banks having less need to sell ABS
to raise money because of the flood of liquidity from central
banks. Lenders are also using the bonds as collateral for
central bank loans instead of offering them to investors,
helping to keep prices buoyant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  