-- U.S. Corn Harvest Accelerates After Drought; Soy Ratings Decline
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-08-27T20:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/u-s-corn-harvest-accelerates-after-drought-soy-ratings-decline.html
The U.S. corn  harvest  is proceeding
at the fastest pace ever after farmers planted early and the
worst drought in generations accelerated crop maturity, the
government said. Soybean  conditions  fell.  About 6 percent of the corn was harvested as of yesterday,
compared with 4 percent a week earlier and none a year ago, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today in a  report . About 26
percent of the crop was rated mature, up from a revised 16
percent a week earlier, increasing the risks wind and rain will
knock ears off stalks or blow plants over.  Corn futures surged 60 percent since mid-June before today,
prompting the  United Nations  to predict higher global food
costs.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S. meat processor, said
Aug. 6 its profit will be lower after paying more for grain to
feed animals.  “We started taking in corn on Aug. 17, the earliest
ever,” Scott Docherty, the general manager for Monticello,
Illinois-based Top Flight Grain Cooperative, said in a telephone
interview before the report. “Farmers are harvesting early
because many fear that the heat weakened the stalks and they
don’t want to lose any more bushels.”  Docherty said the corn crop in central  Illinois  may be 35
percent smaller than last year. Nationwide, about 22 percent of
the crop was in good or excellent condition, down from 23
percent a week earlier and 54 percent a year earlier.  About 30 percent of the nation’s soybeans were rated good
or excellent  of Aug. 26, compared with 31 percent a week
earlier, the USDA said. Approximately 8 percent of the plants
were dropping leaves, a sign of maturity, up from 4 percent a
week earlier and 4 percent on average the prior five years.  Crop ratings are the worst for this time of year since
1988, when corn production plunged 31 percent from a year
earlier and soybeans declined 20 percent. This year, corn output
will fall 13 percent to 10.779 billion bushels, the smallest
since 2006, the USDA said Aug. 10. The soybean crop may be 12
percent smaller at 2.692 billion bushels. The government will
update its crop forecasts on Sept. 12.  Corn and soybean prices surged to records this month as
output was poised to decline for the third straight year. Based
on average temperatures and rain in June and July, the drought
in the Midwest was the most-severe since 1936, according to T-
Storm Weather LLC.  About 51 percent of the  Midwest  was in a moderate to
exceptional drought on Aug. 21, down from 66 percent a week
earlier and up from 9.5 percent a year earlier, according to the
U.S. Drought Monitor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in  Chicago  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 