-- U.S. Company Credit-Default Swaps Ease Before Bernanke Speech
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-27T21:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/u-s-company-credit-swaps-fall-on-germany-france-crisis-steps.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk decreased for a second day as investors await a speech from
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to gauge the outlook
for monetary policy.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on company debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 0.7 basis point to a mid-price of
100.3 basis points at 5:12 p.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts on Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
fell by the most in three weeks.  Most credit investors are focused on Bernanke’s speech in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , on Aug. 31, meaning trading volumes are
“likely to be abysmal,” according to Noel Hebert, chief
investment officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon
Wealth Management LLC.  Bernanke probably won’t use the speech to suggest a third
round of bond buying is imminent, according to economists
including  Michael Feroli  at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  James O’Sullivan  with High Frequency Economics. The central bank’s
Jackson Hole symposium was the scene of a 2010 speech that
foreshadowed a second round of quantitative easing.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves, is up from 98.5 basis points on Aug. 20.
The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  European Steps  The measure earlier fell by the most since Aug. 16 after
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Germany and
 France  will create a working group to advance cooperation on
banking and fiscal union and strengthening of monetary union in
Europe. The renewed show of unity by the region’s two biggest
economies is reassuring investors that European leaders will
take steps to fix the debt crisis, taking pressure off U.S.
corporate balance sheets.  Credit swaps tied to Goldman Sachs declined by the most
since Aug. 6, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The contracts linked to the New
York-based firm decreased 10 basis points to 244.5 basis points,
the data show.  Media and entertainment, oil and gas, and health care are
the most troubled industries with the highest levels of credit
risk, for a third straight month, a research group at  Standard &
Poor’s  said in a note dated today. S&P’s global fixed income
research group’s criteria identified 115 companies in those
segments.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, narrowed 0.23 basis point to 17.9
basis points. The measure, which falls when investors favor
assets such as corporate bonds and rises when they seek the
perceived safety of  government securities , has narrowed from
54.7 in November, the highest since May 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  