-- U.S. Open Odds Make Longshot of Anybody But Federer or Djokovic
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/u-s-open-odds-make-longshot-of-anybody-but-federer-or-djokovic.html
Roger Federer  and Novak Djokovic
have a better chance to win the U.S. Open tennis championship
than the other 126 players in the men’s draw combined, according
to oddsmakers.  With the withdrawal of 2010 champion and 2011 runner-up
 Rafael Nadal , there’s a 55 percent chance Federer or Djokovic
will be holding the winner’s trophy after the final point at the
two-week tournament at the National Tennis Center in  New York ,
said RJ Bell, the founder of Las Vegas-based handicapping
information website Pregame.com.  The tournament begins today; Federer will face unseeded
 Donald Young  of the U.S. in his first match.  Djokovic, of  Serbia , is the defending champion and enters
the season’s final major tournament as the favorite with 3-2
odds at the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. Federer, a Swiss
right-hander who won five straight U.S. Open titles from 2004 to
2008 and is the No. 1 men’s seed, is the 9-4 second choice after
winning Wimbledon.  Of tennis’s past 30 majors, 29 have been won by Federer,
Djokovic or Nadal, with Juan Martin del Potro’s victory at the
2009 U.S. Open the lone exception.  After Nadal, of Spain, pulled out of the tournament last
week because of injuries, del Potro of Argentina has the fourth
best odds to win at 8-1, while Olympic champion  Andy Murray  of
Britain is the third choice at 7-2. No other player in the men’s
draw has odds of better than 25-1.  “I feel like the tournament is about three deep to win it,
maybe four, that’s about it,” Brad Gilbert, who won 20
tournaments as a pro before becoming an ESPN tennis analyst,
said on a media conference call. “That’s just kind of the way
it is in the men’s. It’s obviously a little bit different this
year with Nadal not in it.”  Federer Momentum  While Djokovic, 25, is the defending champion, 31-year-old
Federer comes in with the most momentum.  After both players lost to Murray at the Olympics on the
grass courts in  London , Federer rolled past Djokovic in the
final of last week’s hardcourt Masters series event in
Cincinnati. Federer didn’t lose a set in the tournament.  “There is no doubt about it, beating Novak in a final
makes it extra special,” said Federer, who last month at
Wimbledon captured his record-extending 17th major title. “Even
though I reached almost all goals already this year by securing
a medal, winning Wimbledon, and getting back to world No. 1,
it’s important for me to push forward.”  Serena Williams  of the U.S. may be seeded only fourth in
the women’s draw, yet the three-time U.S. Open champion is the
1-1 favorite among Las Vegas oddsmakers. Top seed  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus and  Maria Sharapova  of Russia have 7-1 odds,
followed by Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic at 10-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  