-- UN Sanctions Kenyan National Over Support for Terror Groups
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-08-27T09:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/un-sanctions-kenyan-national-over-support-for-terror-groups-1-.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
said it added Abubaker Shariff Ahmed to a list of people subject
to travel bans, asset freezes and targeted arms embargoes for
supporting extremist groups.  Ahmed, a Kenyan national, has been a leading facilitator
and recruiter of young  Kenyan Muslims  for militant activity in
Somalia, the council said in a statement on its website. He has
told male worshippers at mosques in the port city of  Mombasa  to
travel to Somalia and commit acts of violence on behalf of al-
Qaeda including killing U.S. citizens, it said.  “He provides material support to extremist groups in  Kenya 
and elsewhere in  East Africa ,” the council said. “Through his
frequent trips to al-Shabaab strongholds in  Somalia , including
Kismayo, he has been able to maintain strong ties with senior
al-Shabaab members.”  Al-Shabaab, which has ties to al-Qaeda, has led an
insurgency against Somalia’s UN-backed government for the past
five years, and still controls swathes of territory in the south
and central regions. African Union forces are targeting Kismayo,
one of the last major bastions for al-Shabaab and a key source
of its income, after recapturing several militia bases including
the capital, Mogadishu, over the last year.  While Somalia has had no effective government for the last
20 years, the UN and U.S. have expressed optimism that the
selection of a parliament this month, which is due to elect a
president and speaker, will mark political progress.  Kenyan police arrested Ahmed, who is known by at least six
alternate names, two years ago for his role in a grenade attack
at a Kenyan bus depot that left at least three people dead.  The U.S. said last month that it had imposed sanctions on
six men including Ahmed for “contributing to the conflict in
Somalia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  