-- Hungary to Avoid Rate Cut on Inflation, Bailout Concern
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-08-28T10:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/hungary-to-refrain-from-rate-cut-on-inflation-bailout-concern.html
Hungary ’s central bank will probably
refrain from cutting the European Union’s highest  benchmark
interest rate  because of accelerating inflation and possible
delays in obtaining a bailout.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  will leave the two-week deposit
rate at 7 percent for an eighth month, according to 17 of 18
economists in a Bloomberg survey. One expects a cut to 6.75
percent. The central bank will announce the decision at 2 p.m.
in Budapest.  Policy makers last month voted five to two to keep rates
unchanged, rejecting arguments that easing policy would prop up
the economy that entered its second recession in four years,
minutes of the July 24 meeting show. The majority argued that
the central bank should wait for the outcome of bailout talks
with the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union
before lowering borrowing costs.  “We think the National Bank of Hungary will resist
pressures and keep its 7 percent base rate on hold, however,
this is a close call,”  Daniel Hewitt , an economist at  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  in  London , said in an e-mailed note.  Forward-rate agreements used to wager on interest rates in
one month fell 7 basis points to 6.87 percent yesterday, the
lowest since November. The FRAs traded 28 basis points below the
Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, the biggest spread in more than
two years and signaling expectations for a quarter-point rate
cut. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ECB Rates  The  European Central Bank  this month kept its main interest
rate unchanged at a record-low 0.75 percent and the deposit rate
at zero. Czech policy makers left their two-week repurchase at a
record-low 0.5 percent on Aug. 2, while their Polish colleagues,
who surprised the market with a quarter-point increase in May,
also kept the benchmark rate at 4.75 percent on July 4.  A rate cut may add momentum to the economy and would be
accepted by investors, Ferenc Gerhardt, a monetary-policy maker
said in an Aug. 10 interview. Meanwhile, Simor, speaking after
last month’s rate decision, argued for a “cautious policy
stance” until the outcome of bailout talks is known.  Hungary is set to resume talks with the international
lenders on a credit line of about 15 billion euros ($18.8
billion) to protect the economy from euro-area contagion and to
lower financing costs. IMF and EU officials are focusing on
untangling policies that contributed to an economic contraction
in the first two quarters and the downgrade of Hungary’s credit
to junk.  ‘Weak GDP’  “Weak second-quarter GDP data further boost the chance of
monetary easing, however, we only expect this at the end of
September due to accelerating inflation and pending IMF-EU
negotiations,” Istvan Horvath, director at the Budapest
investment management unit of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , said in a statement
yesterday. Hungary may lower borrowing costs in several steps
until the end of the year, Horvath wrote.  The economy contracted 0.2 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three months and shrank 1.2 percent from the
year-earlier period.  Inflation, the fastest in the EU, accelerated to 5.8
percent in July from 5.6 percent in June, drifting further from
the central bank’s 3 percent target. The pace of consumer-price
increases may slow to the goal in 2014, Simor said last month.  Forint, CDS  The forint, which gained 13 percent against the euro this
year as investors speculated that Hungary will obtain an IMF
bailout, has advanced 1.2 percent this month, the third-best
performance among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The currency weakened 0.3 percent to trade
at 278.47 per euro at 11:38 a.m. in Budapest.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt for
five years using credit-default swaps fell to 427 basis points
from this year’s highest close of 735 basis points on Jan. 5.  “While we still see 50 basis points in rate cuts this
year, we perceive some risks to the path priced in by the
market,” analysts at OTP Bank Nyrt. wrote in a research report
last week. Policy makers will “take a wait-and-see” stance
until the next Report on Inflation is published in September,
according to the note.  Recent comments by Gerhardt and fellow council member
Gyorgy Kocziszky showed a rift between Simor and his two
deputies on one side and at least three of the four non-
executive rate-setters, who were appointed last year with
ruling-party backing, on the other. The four united against the
bank’s leadership in January when they outvoted a proposal to
raise the benchmark rate by a half-point to 7.5 percent to keep
borrowing costs unchanged.  Council Rift  Gerhardt and Kocziszky, along with fellow non-executive
rate-setter Andrea Bartfai-Mager, voted with Simor and his
deputies to maintain  interest rates  against Janos Cinkotai, the
fourth non-executive member, who backed rate cuts, since
February. Last month, Kocziszky joined ranks with Cinkotai in
backing a 25 basis-point reduction.  Simor and the two deputy governors will probably vote to
hold rates, and three of the non-executive council members are
likely to back a 25 basis-point cut, David Nemeth, economist at
ING Groep NV in Budapest said in an e-mailed before the rate
decision.  “The only question is, what will Ms. Bartfai-Mager
prefer?” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  