-- New Orleans Travel Ties Cut as Isaac Threatens Gulf Coast
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-08-28T17:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/united-southwest-to-halt-new-orleans-flights-on-isaac.html
New Orleans ’s travel routes are
being severed as airlines and railroads brace for Hurricane
Isaac to strike a region not fully recovered from the
devastation wrought by Katrina seven years earlier.  The city’s airport is shut today after carriers from
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , New Orleans’s busiest, to  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s largest, rushed planes
and people out of harm’s way.  “There’s an extra sensitivity about what went down during
Katrina,” said Keith Gerr, a spokesman for data tracker
FlightStats.com. “You’ve got airports and airlines that maybe
in the past they’ve waited until the last second to cancel
flights, but they’re being very proactive this time.”  Isaac’s approach also roiled train shipments because New
Orleans is a junction between western carriers such as  Warren
Buffett ’s Burlington Northern Santa Fe and eastern railroads  CSX
Corp. (CSX)  and Norfolk Southern Corp. Commercial traffic on the
Mississippi River, the traditional boundary for the eastern and
western lines, has been essentially halted, the U.S. Coast Guard
said.  The storm  was upgraded to a hurricane after the crew of an
Air Force Reserve monitoring craft reported winds of 75 miles
per hour (120 kilometers per hour), the National Hurricane
Center said in a statement at 12:20 p.m. New York time. A
landfall tomorrow would be seven years to the day after the
onslaught of Katrina, whose storm surge burst levees, flooding
parts of the city.  JetBlue, American  Cancellations for today at Louis Armstrong New Orleans
International Airport totaled 290, according to the tally from
data tracker FlightAware.com. Those accounted for the bulk of
the 456 U.S. trips scrubbed as of 12:09 p.m. New York time,
FlightAware said.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , JetBlue
Airways Corp. and  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  were among the
carriers joining United and Southwest in announcing they were
halting operations hours before the city decided to shut the
airport.  “I believe that everything is going to be OK,” Mayor
Mitchell Landrieu told reporters yesterday in New Orleans.
“That does not mean you can let your guard down.”  United’s operations will be halted until the morning of
Aug. 30,  Megan McCarthy , a spokeswoman, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. Southwest will resume service on Aug. 30,
said Ashley Dillon, a spokeswoman. United has 30 daily New
Orleans round trips, and Southwest has 84, according to the
airlines.  Airports Closing?  The New Orleans airport already accounts for 113 of the 182
U.S. flights canceled tomorrow, FlightAware said.  Other cancellations included all 24 daily round trips for
Delta and five for JetBlue, spokesmen said. The Gulfport-Biloxi
International Airport in Mississippi closed to air traffic, as
did the Mobile, Alabama, Regional Airport and the Pensacola,
Florida, International Airport.  New Orleans’s shutting of its floodgates cut rail access
for carriers that include Burlington Northern, CSX, Norfolk
Southern,  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , Kansas City Southern and Canadian
National Railway Co. That convergence of track networks makes
New Orleans unusual among major U.S. cities.  The railroads are working together to reroute traffic away
from New Orleans, interchanging east-west cargoes in cities
including Birmingham, Alabama, and Memphis, Tennessee, spokesmen
said. Shipment delays varied among the railroads and ranged from
24 hours to 72 hours.  Cargo Delivery  Union Pacific is the biggest U.S. railroad, followed by
Burlington Northern, which is owned by Buffett’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   Floodgates closed to protect the city from the hurricane’s
surge waters may reopen by Thursday, permitting rail traffic, if
water levels and winds have subsided, said Steve King of the New
Orleans Emergency Operations Center.  “As soon as the water is down enough where we feel
comfortable, one of the first things we do is open up railroads
and main highways,” he said.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the world’s largest cargo airline,
suspended service in a Louisiana parish that is under mandatory
evacuation orders and anticipated delays in air-freight service
in Florida, Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana. Ground shipping
delays are expected in New Orleans and  Key West , Florida.  “We’ll evaluate it moving forward based on weather
conditions,” Benjamin Hunt, a spokesman, said in a telephone
interview. “These things are kind of tricky.”  River Traffic  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  planes that were idled have been
moved from the area, said Mike Mangeot, a spokesman. UPS
suspended pickups and drop-offs in dozens of  postal-delivery
zones.   Commercial barges that remained on the Mississippi were
required to anchor two to three times more strongly than usual
to prevent being torn loose in a storm and smashing into ports
and other vessels, the Coast Guard said.  “As the storm makes landfall and progresses inland, we’ll
be able to assess where we are with the conditions,” said Lt.
Commander Michael Wolfe, a Coast Guard spokesman. “It’s really
for the safety of the commerce that’s moving through.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tori Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  