-- Venezuela Refinery Fire Spreads as Death Toll Reaches 48
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-08-27T22:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/venezuela-battles-flames-at-largest-refinery-after-deadly-blast.html
A blaze at  Venezuela ’s largest
refinery spread to a third storage tank as firefighters try to
contain flames burning since an Aug. 25 gas explosion killed at
least 48 people. Gasoline prices rallied in  New York .  Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said two of the fires at tanks
holding naphtha at the Amuay refinery probably will burn out by
tomorrow as firefighters contend with a third fire that started
at 2:15 p.m. local time today. There was no structural damage to
the processing units at the facility about 240 miles west of
Caracas, he said, adding that exports haven’t been unaffected.  “We have to announce that a third tank which has had
flames on its roof is also catching fire at this moment,”
Ramirez, who is also head of state oil company Petroleos de
Venezuela SA, said on state television. “We estimate that with
the wind and conditions the two tanks should extinguish
themselves by tomorrow, with this new tank we’re obliged to
continue putting in all the effort to extinguish the fire.”  President  Hugo Chavez , who faces elections in October,
declared three days of mourning and toured the affected areas.
The explosion occurred after a gas cloud formed and erupted into
a ball of flames that engulfed a National Guard post as well as
homes and shops in front of the refining complex. The shutdown
threatens refined product supply as U.S. Gulf Coast plants halt
operations as Tropical Storm Isaac heads toward the region.  Chavez said he ordered an investigation into the causes and
said they won’t discard any hypotheses.  Gasoline Inventories  Venezuela has 4 million barrels of inventories of gasoline
and other petroleum products and continues to produce 735,000
barrels of gasoline a day at plants, including nearby Cardon,
according to Ramirez. Amuay, which has capacity to produce
645,000 barrels a day, will be restarted within two days after
all of the fires have been extinguished, he said.  PDVSA, as the Caracas-based company is known, has 10 days
of inventory to meet its supply obligations internally and
externally, Ramirez said. The state-owned company shipped five
tankers of crude oil from Paraguana yesterday, he said.  “It’s probably going to be far longer than their public
statements given the track record we’ve seen of maintenance at
PDVSA facilities over the last couple of years,”  Andy Lipow ,
president of Houston-based Lipow Oil Associates LLC, said by
phone. “I think it concerns the market that it could take a
long time given that it’s their largest refining complex.”  Refinery Accidents  PDVSA is the sole owner and operator of the refinery. The
blast is among the world’s deadliest at an oil refinery. Fifteen
workers were killed at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s  Texas  City refinery in 2005,
while more than 50 people died in a fire at Hindustan Petroleum
Corp.’s refinery in Visakhapatnam,  India , in 1997.  Amuay, Cardon and Bajo Grande form the Paraguana complex,
which has a capacity of about 950,000 barrels a day. That’s
second in size to  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s Jamnagar refinery
in India, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. CRP, as the
complex is known, supplies 67 percent of gasoline to the local
market, according to PDVSA’s  website . Cardon and Amuay also
export refined products to the Caribbean and the U.S.  Stella Lugo, governor of Falcon state in western Venezuela,
described the early-morning blast as similar to an earthquake
and said more than 200 homes near the refinery were damaged.
Lugo told Union Radio today that the death toll had risen to 48
from a previous estimate of 39.  Prices Rise  The National Guard stationed at the refinery bore the brunt
of the deaths, including 18 troops and 15 family members,
according to Vice President Elias Jaua. More than 500 homes in
vicinity of the plant have been damaged, Chavez said today.  Gasoline rose to the highest level in almost four months
today as some refineries shut with the approach of Isaac and the
disruption at Amuay. BP and other companies have suspended some
crude and gas operations in the  Gulf of Mexico . The area is home
to 23 percent of U.S. oil production and 44 percent of refining
capacity, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Gasoline for September delivery advanced 7.68 cents to
$3.1548 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since April 30.  Refiners with Texas operations that are less exposed to
Isaac stand to benefit by exporting more product after the
Venezuela explosion, said  John Auers , senior vice president at
Turner Mason & Company, a Dallas-based energy consultant.  U.S. Refiners  “On a sustainable basis, Venezuela hasn’t been able to
produce much product as they used to,” Auers said by telephone.
“The U.S. refiners have taken their place. Now in a short term,
they certainly can step up and do even more.”  Shares in Valero Energy Corp., based in  San Antonio , Texas,
jumped 5.2 percent to $30.77 today, while Marathon Petroleum
Corp., based in Findlay,  Ohio , gained 1.7 percent to $49.60.  The fire at Amuay, which opened in 1950, highlights the
risk to supplies of oil products from large, aging plants and
may lead to more exports from Asia to the U.S., according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Other major refinery fires elsewhere caused months of
delays before full operations resumed, Nilesh Banerjee, an
analyst at Goldman in Mumbai, said in a note e-mailed today.  Venezuela, one of the 12 members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries and  South America ’s biggest crude
producer, had an average output of 2.7 million barrels of oil a
day last year, according to BP  statistics . Its main export
markets are the U.S. and  China .  Crude Exports  Venezuela was the fourth-largest source of crude for the
U.S. in May, after  Canada ,  Saudi Arabia  and  Mexico , at 821,000
barrels a day, based on data from the U.S. Energy Information
Agency. Venezuelan product imports from the U.S. nearly doubled
in the first five months of 2012 to 38,000 barrels a day from
23,000 in the year earlier period, according to the EIA. They
include gasoline, fuel additives and liquefied petroleum gas.  Cardon has closed units several times this year after
incidents. PDVSA had to halt production and evacuate workers
from its Petropiar heavy-crude upgrader last year after a gas
leak and a fire.  Jose Bodas, an oil union leader, told Globovision on Aug.
25 that PDVSA has ignored calls by workers to improve
“hazardous” working conditions at refineries.  Seven out of nine planned maintenance programs for the
Amuay refinery were postponed last year because of a lack of
materials, according to PDVSA’s 2011  annual report .  Maintenance  Ramirez denied that PDVSA has failed to invest in
maintenance and said the company spent $6 billion in the past
five years on its refining circuit. Chavez also denied reports
that the leak of gas had begun hours before the explosion.  “Today’s price action probably already discounts refinery
outages of a few days duration,”  Tim Evans , an energy analyst
at Citi Futures Perspective in New York, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “If refineries are in restart mode by
the end of the week we could see the futures market rebalance.
If the outages are extended beyond the next few days, then we’d
look for more gains for gasoline and more weakness in crude.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  