-- Verizon, Lilly, Apple, Viacom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-27T22:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/verizon-lilly-apple-viacom-intellectual-property.html
Verizon Communications Inc. must pay
royalties to a California company whose patents it infringes,
though it doesn’t have to stop providing FiOS TV customers with
video-on-demand services, a U.S. appeals court said.  A jury’s $115 million damage award to ActiveVideo Networks
Inc. was affirmed, as was an order for Verizon to pay
ActiveVideo $2.74 a month for each FiOS TV subscriber. The  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in Washington on Aug.
24 upheld a finding that three ActiveVideo patents were
infringed and reversed a finding as to a fourth.  ActiveVideo, which licenses its technology to Verizon
competitor  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , owns inventions related to
delivering interactive television to subscribers. After Verizon
lost the trial, a federal judge in Norfolk,  Virginia , gave
Verizon six months to alter its video-on-demand service or stop
providing it. That order was put on hold pending the appeal.  Edward McFadden, a spokesman for Verizon, said the company
had no immediate comment.  Paul Schneider, an ActiveVideo spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement that the company is “gratified” with the
verdict validating the lower court’s findings and the awards of
damages and royalties. The company is “glad to have this part
of the case behind us,” he said.  The appeals court said that “substantial evidence supports
the jury’s verdict” against New York-based Verizon regarding
three patents, while it doesn’t back up a claim against FiOS.  ActiveVideo can’t prevent Verizon from providing a video-
on-demand service when the San Jose, California-based company
was actively licensing its patents to all comers, the panel
wrote. Cablevision might lose customers to the competition;
ActiveVideo only loses potential revenue which would be balanced
out by Verizon’s royalties, it said.  “In light of the record evidence including ActiveVideo’s
past licensing of this technology and its pursuit of Verizon as
a licensee, no fact finder could reasonably conclude that
ActiveVideo would be irreparably harmed by the payment of a
royalty,” the three-judge panel wrote in an opinion posted on
its website.  The Federal Circuit panel also vacated a judge’s ruling
that a Verizon patent was invalid and remanded that part of the
case for further proceedings. The jury had awarded Verizon
$16,000 in damages based on infringement of its patents.  The case is ActiveVideo Networks Inc. v.  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , 2011-1538, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is
ActiveVideo Networks Inc. v. Verizon Communications Inc.,
10cv248, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Norfolk).  Lilly Wins Appeal Upholding Patent for Alimta Cancer Drug  Eli Lilly & Co. won a U.S. appeals court ruling that
upholds the validity of a patent for the lung-cancer drug Alimta
and blocks generic competition through 2017.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on Aug.
24 rejected arguments made by  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA)  that patent 5,344,932 was invalid. It affirmed a lower
court ruling. The decision was posted on the court’s website.  Alimta, whose chemical name is pemetrexed, generated $2.5
billion in sales last year for Indianapolis-based Lilly, making
it the company’s third biggest-selling drug. Alimta is designed
to hamper cancer cells’ ability to use folic acid to grow after
an initial treatment with other drugs.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva, Israel, had argued that Lilly
had patented a compound that wasn’t much different from what was
covered by two earlier patents. The three-judge panel said the
lower court was correct to rule that the 2017 patent is distinct
from the earlier inventions.  “By affirming the district court ruling, we believe that
the court fairly applied long-standing patent law principles,”
Lilly General Counsel Robert Armitage said in a statement.
“Protection of  intellectual property  rights is extremely
important to the biopharmaceutical industry and the physicians
and patients we serve, as these rights help support the
development of the next generation of innovative medicines to
treat unmet medical needs.”  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva, said the company
had no comment.  The case is  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  v. Teva Parental Medicines
Inc., 2011-1561, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Eli Lilly & Co. v. Teva
Parenteral Medicines Inc., 08CV335, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Apple, Samsung Must Stop Some Korea Sales in Patent Dispute  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  must stop selling
some smartphones and tablet computers in South Korea and pay
damages after a Seoul court ruled they infringed on each other’s
patents.  Apple, maker of the iPhone, violated two Samsung patents
related to mobile-data transfer technologies, the Seoul Central
District Court said Aug. 24. Samsung, the world’s largest
mobile-phone maker, infringed one Apple patent related to a
“bounce-back” touchscreen feature, though the Suwon, South
Korea-based company didn’t copy the design of the iPhone, the
court said.  The sales bans don’t cover Apple’s iPhone 4S, its newest
iPad, or Samsung’s latest products including the Galaxy S III
phone, all of which were released after the lawsuits were filed.
The companies have sued each other on four continents since
April, accusing each other of copying products, design and
technology as they battle for dominance of a smartphone market
estimated by Bloomberg Industries to be worth $219 billion.  “The ruling is in line with what we had expected,” Im
Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $29 billion, said by
phone. “What’s important is how the verdict that’s coming out
soon in the U.S. will affect other pending cases in places like
Europe and Australia.”  Samsung said it welcomed the ruling, “which affirms our
position that Apple has been using our mobile telecommunications
standards patents without having obtained the necessary
licenses,” according to a company statement. The ruling “also
affirmed our position that one single company cannot monopolize
generic design features,” Samsung said.  Three phone calls to  Steve Park , a Seoul-based spokesman
for Apple, went unanswered.  Under the ruling, Apple must stop selling the iPhone 3GS,
iPhone 4, iPad 1 and iPad 2 in South Korea, while Samsung must
stop selling 12 products including the Galaxy S, Galaxy S II and
Galaxy Tab. Cupertino, California-based Apple must pay Samsung
40 million won ($35,000), and the Korean company must pay its
U.S. rival 25 million won.  The sales bans take effect immediately, though the
companies can ask the court to rescind them.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Viacom Opposes Mike ‘The Situation’ Sorrentino’s ‘GTL’ Trademark  The application of Mike “The Situation” Sorrentino to
register “GTL” as a trademark may have hit a roadblock.  Sorrentino, who appears on the “Jersey Shore” reality
television program, filed applications to register the acronym
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in February. He used
“GTL” frequently on the show to describe his preferred
activities of “gym, tanning, laundry.”  According to the patent office database,  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  filed
papers indicating it opposes the trademarks. Generally,
intellectual property created in the course of employment is the
property of the employer.  Sorrentino sued  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  in federal court in
Miami in November, claiming the clothing company sold t-shirts
that infringed his trademarks. Abercrombie responded in
December, saying that Viacom owned the marks and that Sorrentino
lacked standing to pursue the case. The most recent filing in
that case is a request from Abercrombie for an extension of time
to take a deposition from Sorrentino.  The case against Abercrombie is MPS Entertainment LLC v.
Abercrombie & Fitch Stores Inc., 11-cv-24110, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Says 10 Individuals, Groups It Paid Commented on Suit  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said at least 10 individuals and groups
receiving company money, including Google attorney William Patry
and the Electronic Frontier Foundation, wrote commentaries about
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s copyright lawsuit over Android software.  Google said in a filing in federal court Aug. 24 that it
didn’t pay anyone to write or comment about the case. The filing
was in response to an order from the judge who presided over the
Oracle trial and who said public commentary that purports to be
independent can influence courts “in subtle ways” and writers’
financial ties to the companies should be disclosed.  “Our reply to the court is clear; no one on our side paid
journalists, bloggers, or other commentators to write about this
case,” Google’s Jim Prosser said in an e-mail.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the filing.  A jury found May 7 that  Mountain View , California-based
Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
infringed Oracle’s copyrights when it developed Android software
for mobile devices. The jury deadlocked on whether the copying
was “fair use.”  The deadlock denied  Redwood City , California-based Oracle
the ability to seek as much as $1 billion in damages from
Google. The jury found May 23 that Google didn’t infringe two
Oracle patents.  Oracle hired one writer, Florian Mueller, author of the
FOSS Patents blog, as a consultant, not to blog about the case,
Oracle said in an Aug. 17 filing. Mueller, who disclosed the
relationship in April, has written extensively on the lawsuit.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  New Yorker Pleads Guilty in Virginia Criminal Copyright Case  A New York resident pleaded guilty to copying and
distributing computer software and training materials without
authorization, the government said in a  statement .  Dennis Newsome, 36, of Beacon, New York, entered a guilty
plea in federal court in Norfolk, Virginia, to four counts
relating to criminal copyright infringement, according to an
Aug. 23 court filing.  The government said in its statement that he sold illegal
copies of copyrighted material from content owners including
 John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A)  and CBT Nuggets LLC.  Some items he sold through his PCTec101 business for $24.99
had a retail price ranging from $750 to $4,295, according to the
government statement. He sold pirated content in the U.S. and
worldwide from 2008 to 2010, the U.S. said.  Newsome agreed to forfeit the proceeds from his piracy, the
government said. He previously was sued in federal court for
civil copyright infringement, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  In June 2006, Wiley sued Newsome in federal court in
Manhattan, accusing him of copyright infringement. In March
2007, that court entered a judgment against him for $14,475.  That case is John Wiley & Sons Inc. v. Newsome, 06-
cv-04326, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  The case is U.S. v. Newsome, 12-cr-00044, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  