-- Vietnam Market Tumble Means Cheapest Stocks in Six Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-28T07:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/vietnam-drop-means-cheapest-stocks-in-six-months-southeast-asia.html
Vietnamese  stocks  falling into a
 bear market  dragged valuations to a six-month low against
Southeast Asian peers as the arrest of bank officials last week
fueled concern of instability in the nation’s financial system.  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  fell 0.1 percent to 385.78 as of the 2:15 p.m.
close in  Ho Chi Minh City , the lowest close since Jan. 30. The
gauge has fallen 21 percent from its high this year on May 8,
more than the 20 percent some investors consider a bear market.
The measure traded yesterday at 9.4 times estimated profit, the
lowest level since May 25 and a 33 percent  discount  to the 141-
member MSCI South East Asia Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Vietnamese gauge slumped 12 percent since Aug. 20 after
Nguyen Duc Kien, a founder of  Asia Commercial Bank (ACB) , was detained
for what the central bank called conducting “business
illegally.” The lender’s former Chief Executive Officer Ly Xuan Hai was subsequently arrested for alleged economic
mismanagement, according to a police statement. Moody’s lowered
Asia Commercial Bank’s credit rating to B2 from B1 on Aug. 24
and put the company on review for future downgrades.  The arrests “will provide long-term investors with a
buying opportunity,”  Marc Faber , publisher of the Gloom, Boom &
Doom Report, said by phone yesterday. “The market is now
relatively inexpensive.”  Faber, chairman of Hanoi-based Indochina Capital with $480
million under management including about $20 million of
Vietnamese equities, plans to purchase stocks in the next two
weeks and is considering bank shares as well.  Foreign Purchases  Overseas investors bought a net 17 billion dong ($815,000)
of Vietnamese equities on the Ho Chi Minh City bourse yesterday,
according to data from the exchange. Foreigners bought a net
$16.4 million of stocks last week, the biggest weekly purchases
since the period to March 30.  The buying “shows that overseas investors are still
interested in  Vietnam ,” Nguyen Thi Hoang Lan, deputy general
director of the Hanoi stock exchange, said by phone yesterday.
“They tend to look at the prospects of the market rather than
just the recent sentiment changes and still consider Vietnam as
a potential market for long-term investment.”  The VN Index’s discount to the MSCI South East Asia Index
was the widest since Feb. 21 as of yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Vietnamese gauge was the third-
cheapest 15 Asian benchmark stock indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  Asia Commercial Bank sank 5.9 percent in Hanoi trading,
taking its slump since Aug. 20 to 27 percent. Moody’s lowered
the lender credit rating following the “negative developments
at the bank,” it said.  Bank Liquidity  “Moody’s is concerned that these developments have
resulted in pressure on the bank’s liquidity and that there
could be longer-term negative consequences for the bank’s
franchise value,” the rating company said.  Fitch Ratings  also placed Asia Commercial Bank on review
for a possible downgrade, it said on Aug. 24. The lender’s long-
and short-term issuer default ratings may be cut if there’s
sustained weakening in the bank’s liquidity and reputation.  State Bank  of Vietnam Governor Nguyen Van Binh said Aug. 21
the monetary authority stands ready to ensure banks have
adequate cash after Kien’s detention. The central bank injected
13 trillion dong into the financial system through open-market
operations on Aug. 22, the most over a seven-day period this
year. It added 3.5 trillion yesterday.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s government is seeking to
shore up a banking system saddled with the highest bad debt in
 Southeast Asia  that credit-rating companies cite as a threat to
the economy.  ‘Positive News’  Vietnam Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade ,
the second-largest lender, lost 2.6 percent, taking its slump
since Aug. 20 to 12 percent. Saigon Thuong Tin Commercial Joint-
Stock Bank, known as Sacombank, was unchanged at 20,000 dong
today. It has declined 12 percent since Aug. 20. The central
bank began an inspection of Sacombank in July and will complete
the probe this month, Binh told lawmakers last week.  Last week’s arrests are “positive news rather than
negative,” Faber said. Authorities are “not going to clean up
100 percent. They can clean up 30 percent, which would already
be an improvement,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  