-- Vietnam Swings to Trade Deficit for First Time in Three Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-27T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/vietnam-swings-to-trade-deficit-for-first-time-in-three-months.html
Vietnam  reported that its  trade
balance  swung to a deficit in August for the first time in three
months as imports rose, signaling domestic demand may be growing
after authorities eased monetary policy.  The  shortfall  was $150 million in August compared with a
revised surplus of $579 million in July, the General Statistics
Office said in Hanoi today. The median estimate of five
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was for trade to be
balanced. For the first eight months of the year, the deficit
was $62 million.  Vietnam’s  economy  expanded 4.38 percent in the first half
of 2012, down from 5.63 percent in the same period a year ago.
The monetary authority has cut  interest rates  and told banks to
reduce lending rates to spur growth, and while demand for  Asia ’s
goods has faltered, faster credit growth in Vietnam will
probably boost expansion in the second half, Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. wrote in a report last month.  “Given Vietnam’s stage of development, Vietnam would have
a trade deficit if the economy was performing well,”  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-based economist at Barclays Plc, said before
the data. “Once you see growth pick up again, you’ll probably
also see a gradual increase in investment and a return to
manageable trade deficits.”  The dong traded at 20,905 per dollar as of 7:07 a.m. local
time. The currency has gained almost 1 percent this year,
outperforming peers including the Indonesian rupiah.  Exports fell to $9.8 billion in August from $10.19 billion
in July, the statistics office said today. For the year to date,
shipments have increased 17.8 percent to $73.35 billion.  Imports rose to $9.95 billion in August from $9.61 billion
in July, the statistics office said. Imports have risen 6.7
percent to $73.41 billion so far this year.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . With assistance from Minh
Bui in Sydney. Editors: Rina Chandran, K. Oanh Ha  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  