-- Vietnam Stocks Enter Bear Market on Financial System Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-27T08:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/vietnam-stocks-enter-bear-market-on-financial-system-concerns.html
Vietnam ’s stocks plunged, dragging
the benchmark index into in a  bear market , on concerns the
arrest of two banking officials last week may signal further
instability in the nation’s financial system.  The VN Index fell 3.4 percent to 386.19 at the close on the
Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange, extending the drop since the
recent peak on May 8 to more than 20 percent, which some
investors regard as a bear market.  Bank for  Foreign Trade  of
Vietnam, the nation’s largest lender by value, slid 5 percent.
 Asia Commercial Bank (ACB) , whose credit rating was cut by Moody’s
Investors Service after the arrests, plunged about 7 percent.  Moody’s lowered  Asia  Commercial Bank’s credit rating to B2
from B1 on Aug. 24 and put the company on review for future
downgrades following the “negative developments at the bank,”
it said. Nguyen Duc Kien, one of the bank’s founders, was
detained Aug. 20 for what the central bank called conducting
“business illegally.” That was followed by the arrest of
former Chief Executive Officer Ly Xuan Hai by the police for
alleged economic mismanagement, according to a police statement.  “The question is if last week’s arrests are just the
beginning of something bigger, and investors are worried about
that,” said Marc Djandji, a Ho Chi Minh City-based senior vice
president at Indochina Capital. “There’s little clarity as to
what’s going on, or if there’s something going on behind the
scenes.”  Djandji is buying stocks because the  valuations  are “very
compelling,” he said. The VN Index trades at 9.4 times of
estimated earnings this year, the lowest in Asia after  Pakistan ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Injecting Funds  State Bank  of Vietnam injected 13 trillion dong ($623
million) into the financial system through open-market
operations on Aug. 22, the most over a seven-day period this
year. Governor Nguyen Van Binh said Aug. 21 the monetary
authority stands ready to ensure banks have adequate cash after
Kien’s detention.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s government is seeking to
shore up a banking system saddled with the highest bad debt in
 Southeast Asia  that credit-rating companies cite as a threat to
the economy.  Vietnam Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade ,
the second-largest lender, lost 4.9 percent, while Saigon Thuong
Tin Commercial Joint-Stock Bank, known as Sacombank, fell 0.5
percent. The central bank started inspecting Sacombank in July
and will complete the probe this month, Binh told lawmakers at
the National Assembly last week.  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  slumped 12 percent since Aug. 20 with the
arrests of the two bank officials.  Fitch Ratings  also placed Asia Commercial Bank on review
for a possible downgrade, it said on Aug. 24. The lender’s long-
and short-term issuer default ratings may be cut if there’s
sustained weakening in the bank’s liquidity and reputation.  “Moody’s is concerned that these developments have
resulted in pressure on the bank’s liquidity and that there
could be longer-term negative consequences for the bank’s
franchise value,” the rating company said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  