-- Vin Scully to Return for 64th Season in Dodgers’ Broadcast Booth
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-08-27T04:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/vin-scully-to-return-for-64th-season-in-dodgers-broadcast-booth.html
Vin Scully will return to the
broadcast booth for a 64th season of calling Los Angeles Dodgers
games, saying he’s revitalized by the new ownership group that
two days ago completed a trade that brought  Adrian Gonzalez ,
 Josh Beckett  and  Carl Crawford  from Boston.  “I’m so convinced of their great purpose and leadership
that I eagerly look forward to joining them in pursuit of the
next Dodgers championship.” Scully, 84, said in a statement.  Scully’s 63 years of service represent the longest tenure
of any broadcaster in sports history, the Dodgers said.  Basketball Hall of Famer Magic Johnson is a member of the
group that completed its purchase of the Dodgers in May. The
group is led by  Mark Walter , chief executive of Guggenheim
Partners LLC, which financed much of the record $2.15 billion
purchase from  Frank McCourt , who put the Major League Baseball
team into bankruptcy in June 2011.  “It was a treat to be able to listen to Chick Hearn
through my years with the Lakers,” Johnson said. “And it’s
been great to be able to listen to Vin work his magic in the
broadcast booth since I came to Los Angeles in 1979. Generations
of Angelenos have been blessed to have these Hall of Famers in
their midst.”  Scully began his professional baseball broadcasting career
in 1950 with the Brooklyn Dodgers and was presented with the
Ford C. Frick  award  for “major contributions to baseball” by
the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 1982.  Scully’s Highlights  He has called three perfect games -- including that of New
York Yankees pitcher  Don Larsen  in the 1956 World Series -- 25
no-hitters, 25 World Series and 12 All-Star Games. Among the
highlights Scully described for fans were  Kirk Gibson ’s winning
Game 1 homer in the 1988 World Series,  Hank Aaron ’s record-
setting 715th home run,  Barry Bonds ’s record-breaking 71st, 72nd
and 73rd home runs and the scoreless-inning streaks of Dodger
pitchers Don Drysdale and Orel Hershiser.  Scully’s decision to return came a day after the Dodgers
completed a trade to acquire Gonzalez, Beckett and Crawford --
Boston’s three highest-paid players -- in a nine-player swap.
They join a Dodgers team that’s in second place in the National
League Western Division.  Scully said baseball still brings out childlike excitement
in him and that he’s especially anticipating one interleague
series in 2013.  “I really would like to see Yankee Stadium and the Dodgers
and Yankees,” Scully said. “That really gets my imagination
stirring. First of all, I’ve never seen the new Yankee Stadium.
But to just go back and play the Yankees.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net ;
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  