-- Virgin Australia Returns to Profit as Qantas Flyers Lured
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-08-28T00:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/virgin-australia-returns-to-profit-as-qantas-flyers-lured.html
Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH) , the
country’s second-largest airline, posted full-year profit that
missed analyst estimates as surging costs curbed benefits of
increased sales to corporate customers.  Net income was A$23 million ($24 million) in the 12 months
ended June 30 after a loss of A$68 million a year earlier, the
Brisbane-based carrier said in a statement today. That missed
the A$47 million average of 10  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares slumped the most in almost five months.  Operating costs increased 16 percent to A$3.81 billion as
the airline paid more for fuel, staff and airport charges and
added more seats on domestic routes. The increased spending
limited the benefit of a 4.3 percent rise in passenger numbers
as the company won business class clients from  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN)  and entered tie-ups with carriers including  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and Etihad Airways PJSC.  “The cost base is going up and the challenge for Virgin is
to ensure their revenues rise well in excess of their costs,”
 Russell Shaw , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Sydney, said
by phone before the results.  The  shares  fell 5.2 percent to 45.5 Australian cents as of
10:31 a.m., the biggest decline since April 3. The slide pared
this year’s gain to 60 percent compared with a 7.4 percent
advance for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index. Qantas has slumped
19 percent in 2012.  Virgin Australia’s shareholders include Richard Branson’s
Virgin Group, Etihad and Air New Zealand Ltd.  Sales Rise  Sales rose 20 percent to A$3.91 billion as the company
extended its international reach and added new premium services
as it sheds its budget roots. Competition from the airline
contributed to Qantas reporting its first loss in at least 17
years last week.  Virgin’s move to add business class flights has ended an
effective monopoly on the segment enjoyed by Qantas since the
collapse of Ansett  Australia  in 2001, and the larger carrier has
been adding extra seats to defend a 65 percent share of the
Australian market which it considers optimal.  “We have changed the competitive landscape in Australian
aviation,” John Borghetti, Virgin Australia’s chief executive
officer, said in a statement.  Virgin said it had met a goal set last year of about
doubling its share of Australia’s corporate travel market to 20
percent as it shed its former lower-cost image and name. That
level was a “tipping point which we believe effectively creates
a new competitive norm”, Borghetti said.  Premium Airfares  Virgin has “ticked all the boxes,” Macquarie’s Shaw said.
“The next 12 months will be about bedding down what they’ve
achieved.”  The carrier’s push to meet this target and increase the
frequency of its flights contributed to  premium airfares 
slumping to their lowest levels in a decade in July, based on a
government index.  The airline’s capacity on domestic flights rose 9.6 percent
from a year earlier during the year. The move from a low-cost to
a full-service carrier model meant that group yields, a measure
of ticket prices, rose 12 percent.  Virgin didn’t give any forecast for the current year
“given the uncertain economic environment,” the company said.  Capacity will rise by between 8 percent and 9 percent by
the end of December. Qantas said Aug. 23 it would add as much as
11 percent to its domestic capacity by the end of December from
a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  