-- VMware Incoming Chief Says ‘Time to Move On’ to Cloud
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-08-28T20:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/vmware-incoming-chief-says-time-to-move-on-to-cloud.html
VMware Inc. (VMW) ’s incoming chief
executive officer, Pat Gelsinger, plans to accelerate growth by
expanding in software for managing  computer networks  and  storage
devices , stepping up competition with  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   VMware’s $1.26 billion acquisition of Nicira Inc. is part
of a strategy Gelsinger called the “software-defined data
center.” His goal is to supply tools that let businesses move
to cloud computing by more readily shifting network capacity,
storage and processing power to applications that need it, he
said in a keynote address yesterday at the company’s VMworld
 conference  in San Francisco.  Gelsinger, who becomes CEO Sept. 1, is seeking to reignite
growth and position  Palo Alto , California-based VMware to gain a
greater share of corporate technology spending by branching out
into software that controls more parts of their data centers,
including networking gear, according to  Brent Thill , a UBS AG
analyst. Software license sales will increase 13 percent to $2.1
billion this year, after climbing 31 percent in 2011, Thill said
in an Aug. 22 report.  “If we look in the data center of today we see a museum of
the past,” Gelsinger said. “It’s time to move on.”  The strategy may pose an increased competitive threat to
Cisco, the largest maker of computer-networking gear, as it
faces a new breed of software helping customers handle data
traffic with fewer switches and routers. VMware and  EMC Corp. (EMC) ,
its majority owner, are now competing more with Cisco in data-
center management tools, three years after the three companies
 teamed up  to sell combinations of networking equipment, storage
and VMware’s server-virtualization software.  Network Capacity  “I don’t expect the tension to get resolved anytime
soon,” said  Frank Gillett , an analyst at Forrester Research.  VMware is the largest maker of virtualization tools, and
buying Nicira gives it software for moving network capacity
where it’s needed. Demand for cheaper ways to manage a rising
flood of information over networks will propel software-related
networking revenue to $17 billion worldwide by 2016, from $6
billion last year, according to Pacific Crest Securities.  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  also pushed into the market with its July purchase of
Xsigo Systems Inc.  Nicira technology can be used to create a network that
spans applications virtualized with VMware and other computing
workloads, saving customers time, outgoing CEO Paul Maritz said
at a press conference yesterday.  ‘Bold’ Choice  Gelsinger told reporters Nicira was a “bold” acquisition,
while allowing VMware would continue to cooperate with Cisco.  “Almost no revenue and $1.26 billion -- so that’s bold,”
Gelsinger said. VMware and Cisco said yesterday they would
expand their partnership by investing more in engineering needed
to make their products work well in tandem.  VMware also simplified pricing for its own users. A bundle
of virtualization software called the vCloud Suite 5.1 will be
available Sept. 11 in three editions priced starting at $4,995
per processor, VMware said yesterday in a statement. The new
pricing replaces an old cost structure that had been based on
the memory customers used, making expenses less predictable.  “We’d made things overly complex, so we are rectifying
that mistake,” Maritz said.  Many potential clients are also not comfortable putting
their applications into someone else’s data center, which would
give VMware an edge over cloud providers such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Maritz said in an interview yesterday. “We’re
not believers that all the world’s computing has to go into two
or three uber-clouds.”  Executive Transitions  Gelsinger, who takes over from Maritz, had spent the last
three years as chief operating officer at EMC. Prior to that, he
had spent 30 years at chipmaker  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and ran the
company’s business products division.  Maritz, a former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  executive who joined EMC
in 2008 and became VMware’s CEO that year, is returning to EMC
as a technology strategist.  EMC and VMware began planning the CEO transition late last
year to let each executive devote the time to attacking the
market for delivering insights from so-called big data, both
said in an interview. Gelsinger said his new job isn’t a “warm-
up” for eventually succeeding EMC CEO Joe Tucci.  “That’s just nonsense,” he said, adding that he’d like to
be VMware’s CEO for “one to two decades.”  Microsoft, which offers competing virtualization software
as part of its Windows Server product, plans to release a new
 version  on Sept. 4.  “This is not a new strategy for Microsoft,” said Maritz.
“This is the third or fourth time they’re coming to market
saying, ‘Our product is now good enough.’ ”  Shares of VMware declined 1.6 percent to $90.82 at the
close in  New York . The shares have gained 9.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  