-- Twitter Seeks Court Order to Say Users Can Fight Subpoena
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-08-27T21:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/twitter-seeks-court-order-to-say-users-can-fight-subpoena.html
Twitter Inc. challenged a judge’s
order that it turn over to prosecutors information about an
 Occupy Wall Street  protester’s posts, saying it will seek a
ruling allowing users to fight subpoenas directed at the company.  New York  state  Supreme Court  Justice Matthew A. Sciarrino
Jr. denied Twitter’s request to block a subpoena by  Manhattan 
District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., holding in a June 30 decision
that the real-time short-messaging service must turn over posts
written by protester Malcolm Harris, who was arrested after a
protest on the Brooklyn Bridge, from Sept. 15 to Dec. 30.  “Twitter users own their tweets,” Twitter’s legal counsel
Ben Lee said today in an e-mailed statement. “They have a right
to fight invalid government requests.”  The case may determine whether Twitter faces the burden of
responding to subpoenas on behalf of its users, the San
Francisco-based company has said. The  American Civil Liberties
Union  said in a May 31 filing in the case that the outcome may
have national implications as  law enforcement  becomes more
aggressive in seeking information posted on the Internet.  Twitter “provides a voice for liberty around the globe,”
from political movements in the  Middle East  to Chinese citizens
seeking to evade state barriers on communication, the company
said in court papers filed today in Manhattan. The U.S. State
department has also sought the company’s assistance to help
Iranians communicate about election issues, Twitter said.  Standard Policy  Twitter’s standard policy is to let users know if their
information has been subpoenaed, giving them an opportunity to
fight it, lawyers for the company wrote.  Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for Vance, declined to comment
on the appeal. Vance’s office has said in court papers that the
subpoena doesn’t violate the Constitution because Harris can’t
have “a reasonable expectation of privacy in information he
publicly and intentionally broadcast to the world.”  Twitter signed an agreement with the  Library of Congress  in
2010 that would have every public “tweet” archived, according
to court papers filed by Vance.  The subpoena by Vance’s office seeks Harris’s past Twitter
posts and user information linked to his “@destructuremal”
account. Harris was arrested with about 700 protesters on the
Brooklyn Bridge on Oct. 1, according to court filings. Occupy
Wall Street protestors seek to draw attention to unemployment,
financial inequality and wrongdoing in the banking industry.  Martin Stolar, an attorney with the National Lawyers Guild
who had filed the request to invalidate the subpoena on behalf
of Harris, called it “unusual” for Twitter to be involved in
such a case. There was no indication Harris had a conspiratorial
role or did anything out of the ordinary, Stolar has said.  Information Sought  The information sought covers about 3 1/2 months, including
Harris’s arrest date, as well as  Internet Protocol  addresses
corresponding to each post -- something that would allow
prosecutors to see Harris’s location at the time the posts were
sent.  Twitter said users have three legal grounds to block
subpoenas directed at the company: Under New York law, a
proprietary interest in the subject matter of a subpoena gives a
third party such rights; the Stored Communications Act, which
governs disclosure from  Internet service providers ; and the U.S.
Constitution.  The case is People of the  State of New York  v. Harris, 11-
80152, Supreme Court of the State of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  