-- Myanmar Leader Shuffles Cabinet to Strengthen Reforms
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-08-27T18:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/myanmar-leader-shuffles-cabinet-to-strengthen-reforms.html
Myanmar’s President  Thein Sein 
replaced nine cabinet members in the largest shake up of his
administration since embarking on political reforms after taking
power last year.  Thein Sein replaced ministers responsible for information
and economic development, finance, industry and railways, and
will transfer oversight of those ministries to the office of the
president, according to a statement on his official website.  Democratic reforms since Thein Sein took power last year
have prompted Western nations to ease sanctions and galvanized
lawmakers to focus on economic growth after about five decades
of military rule left Myanmar disconnected from the global
financial system. The president, who has freed political
prisoners, allowed greater media freedom and held peace talks
with rebels, is seeking to create jobs before elections in 2015.  “It shows very clearly a strengthening of the president’s
reformist agenda,” Thant Myint-U, an author of two books on
Myanmar, said yesterday by phone from Bangkok. “It’s also
notable that a lot of the reshuffle has been around economic
positions. That shows the focus the president has on reforming
the economy.”  Myanmar dismantled a fixed exchange-rate in April and
parliamentarians are revamping laws to attract investors to the
country of 64 million people, attracting companies such as  Coca-
Cola Co. (KO)  and Visa Inc. The nation’s economy may grow as much as
8 percent a year over the next decade as inflation remains low
and the government increases trade ties with neighbors China and
 India , the  Asian Development Bank  said in an Aug. 20 report.  ‘Upbeat’ Outlook  The near-term outlook for the economy, which is 1/10th the
size of neighboring  Thailand , is “relatively upbeat” because
of higher foreign investment and commodity sales, the ADB said.
Annual growth of 8 percent may triple per capita gross domestic
product to $3,000 by 2030, it said. Myanmar’s per capita gross
domestic product is less than 10 percent that of neighboring
Thailand, according to International Monetary Fund estimates.  President  Barack Obama  last month authorized U.S. companies
to invest in Myanmar for the first time in about 15 years. Thein
Sein met Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  at a July 13
business forum in  Phnom Penh  that included representatives from
Google Inc.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Boeing Co. and General
Motors Co.  ‘Good Sign’  Key ministers who have worked closely with Thein Sein have
been moved into his office, said Thant Myint-U, a former United
Nations official whose grandfather, U Thant, was UN Secretary-
General from 1961 to 1971. It’s also a “good sign” that many
key deputy-minister positions have been filled by technocrats
and academics, he said.  Thein Sein replaced Finance Minister Hla Tun, Industry
Minister Soe Thein, Railays Minister Aung Min and Minister for
Economic Planning Tin Naing Thein, according to the statement on
his website, which didn’t name all of the successors.  Aung Kyi, the former labor minister, will head the
information ministry, replacing Kyaw Hsan, who will be moved to
the ministry for co-operatives, according to the statement. Ohn
Myint, the former minister for livestock, fisheries and
cooperatives, will oversee livestock and fisheries only.  Winston Set Aung, an adviser to the president, will become 
a deputy minister for economic planning.  “The fact that four ministries that are key to reforms are
becoming key posts in the presidential office is a positive sign
for the country’s democratic transition,” Min Thu, a lawmaker
from former political prisoner  Aung San Suu Kyi ’s National
League for Democracy, said late yesterday by phone. “We also
welcome Aung Kyi who has become a minister of information, since
he has dealt with Daw Aung San Suu Kyi as a liaison minister
during the military regime and has good experience dealing with
the public.”  Suu  Kyi was elected to parliament in May after spending 15
years under house arrest, prompting the U.S. and European Union
to ease sanctions as the country transitions to democracy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  