-- Yellow Tail Maker Plans $10 Wine as Dollar Shaves Profits
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-08-27T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/yellow-tail-maker-plans-10-wine-as-dollar-shaves-profits.html
Casella Wines Pty., the maker of
Yellow Tail wine, is developing a product that will sell for
about 50 percent more than its main brand to escape a squeeze on
 Australia ’s wine exports from the strong local currency.  A good vintage during 2012 will allow the winemaker to
introduce the new brand by the end of next year, with two red
and one white varieties priced at about $10 a bottle, about 50
percent above the cost of Yellow Tail, John Casella, managing
director, said in a telephone interview Aug. 22.  Australian wine exports fell 10 percent from a year earlier
to decade lows during 2011 as the strength of the local currency
and bargain-hunting by U.S. drinkers pared profit margins. The
success of cheaper Yellow Tail, the third-best selling wine in
U.S. supermarkets according to data compiled by Nielsen Co. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., has also been blamed for pushing the
image of Australian wine down-market.  “There’s scope for some premium Australian wines that are
badly under-represented,” Casella said. “This dollar level
isn’t sustainable for this economy.”  Some critics and rivals have said Yellow Tail’s low price
and uncomplicated style has damaged the image of Australian wine
overseas. A 2003  tasting  by the Los Angeles Times described its
2002 chardonnay as “excellent lighter fluid” and reminiscent
of “pineapple juice.”  Kangaroo Label  The dominance of Yellow Tail, whose labels carry an
Aboriginal-style painting of a kangaroo, “left most Americans
with the impression that Australian wine is sweet, cheap, and
adorned with a ’critter’,” U.K.-based wine critic Jancis Robinson wrote in an April 18  article .  “A focus on volume sales and not value building” had hurt
the reputation of Australian wine,  Pernod-Ricard SA (RI) ’s Premium
Wine Brands unit said in a October 2011 government inquiry
submission.  The success of Yellow Tail wasn’t to blame for the poor
performance of other brands, Casella said.  Treasury Wine Estates
Ltd. (TWE) , Australia’s largest listed winemaker, said net sales in
constant currency terms in the six months through June fell 7.8
percent in the Americas, its biggest market.  “Yellow Tail is at a certain price point and people buy it
because it’s there; the Toyota Corolla didn’t destroy the
 Lexus ,” Casella said. “Someone buying $12 wine doesn’t buy $6
wine.”  Australian Exports  Australian wine exports have suffered as the local
currency, driven by mining and energy investment, has risen in
recent years.  The Australian dollar is the best-performer among a basket
of major currencies against the  U.S. dollar  over the past three
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency is
more than 24 percent stronger against the greenback than at the
same time in 2009, the data show.  Accounting for about a  fifth  of Australia’s bottled wine
exports, Yellow Tail has been squeezed by the move in the
currency, Casella said. The company was having to explore
alternatives to offset the effect of the currency, including
buying vineyards overseas, developing the higher-priced product,
and a move into brewing, he said.  It’s built a brewery adjacent to its vineyard in Griffith
in central New South Wales state capable of producing 500
million liters of beer a year, equivalent to about 15 percent of
Australia’s premium beer market.  Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd. (CCL) , the country’s largest soft-drink
maker, announced Aug. 22 a A$46 million ($47.8 million)
convertible loan agreement with Casella that will give it rights
to a stake in the business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  