-- Asia Typhoon Grounds Flights, Shuts Oil Refinery in Okinawa
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-08-27T07:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/typhoon-bolaven-lashes-okinawa-with-wind-rain-on-path-to-korea.html
Typhoon Bolaven hammered into
 Japan ’s southernmost islands, forcing flight cancellations, the
closing of an oil refinery and one of the highest weather alerts
at the Kadena U.S. military base on Okinawa.  As much as 50 millimeters (2 inches) of rain per hour could
fall in parts of Okinawa and Kyushu, Japan’s weather agency
said. Landslide and high wave warnings were issued as wind gusts
reached 213 kph. Video by Japan’s public broadcaster NHK showed
tree limbs being snapped in Naha, Okinawa’s capital.  “My yard is getting filled with water,” Sayaka Higa said
by phone, adding the storm forced her to stay home from her job
as a spokeswoman at the U.S. military’s Kadena Air Base about 18
kilometers north of Naha.  Japan Airlines Co.  canceled 125 domestic flights to Okinawa
and surrounding islands, the carrier said on its website. Some
international flights are also affected.  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) 
also canceled flights to the region and advised passengers to
check with the airline.  Bolaven was about 410 kilometers (255 miles) north-
northwest of Naha, a city of 321,000, at 2:45 p.m. local time,
according to the  Japan Meteorological Agency . It had sustained
winds of 148 kilometers per hour (92 mph), making it a Category
1 storm, the weakest on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson Hurricane
Wind Scale .  Refinery Shuts  Nansei Sekiyu KK halted refining and shipping operations at
its 100,000 barrel-a-day Nishihara plant in Okinawa, the company
said in an e-mail today.  Refining operations and marine shipping were halted on Aug.
25, while truck terminal operations were halted yesterday, the
company said.  About 8,900 homes were without power due to storm damage as
of 2 p.m., Tomohiro Shimono, an Okinawa Electric Power Co.
spokesman, said in a phone interview. Six people in the
prefecture had sustained minor injuries, NHK reported on its
website, citing fire department officials.  The Kadena Air Base was under Storm Watch  alert  as of 4
p.m., indicating that the typhoon was moving away but the base
still felt some effects, according to its website. Earlier in
the day, the base had been placed on its highest-level Typhoon
Condition-1 Emergency alert, prohibiting all outside activities.  The storm is forecast to move northwest toward the Korean
peninsula today and may pass to the west of  Seoul  as a Category
1 storm tomorrow, the  U.S. Joint Typhoon Warning Center  said on
its website.  Meteorologists in the northeast Chinese province of
Liaoning, where the storm is expected to make landfall tomorrow,
had issued a yellow alert, the second-highest level in the
country’s four-tier color-coded weather warning system,  China ’s
official Xinhua News Agency said today.  Bolaven is the name for a plateau in  Laos , according to the
 Hong Kong Observatory , which  lists  names assigned to storms in
the northwest Pacific.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  