-- Typhoon Bolaven Capsizes Fishing Boats, Lashes Korea
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-08-28T10:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/typhoon-bolaven-sinks-chinese-fishing-boats-heads-toward-seoul.html
Typhoon Bolaven killed at least
eight people as it lashed the Korean peninsula with strong winds
and heavy rain, capsizing fishing boats and grounding aircraft.  Five fishermen from two Chinese vessels drowned, 10
remained missing and 18 were safe ashore after the storm passed
Jeju Island off the southern tip of  Korea , according to an e-
mailed statement from the Coast Guard.  Another three people were killed in separate accidents, the
Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs said, without
providing details. Yonhap News reported that one of the victims
was an apartment guard who was crushed by a container box,
another a truck driver struck by a falling tree and the third a
man who was hit by a cross that fell from a church.  While  Seoul  escaped widespread  damage , as many as 109
overseas flights in and out of Incheon International Airport,
the nation’s biggest gateway, were canceled as of 6 p.m. Almost
300 domestic flights from Gimpo, Gimhae, Jeju and other smaller
South Korean airports were canceled, and some 87 ferry routes
were closed today, according to the transport ministry.  The center of Bolaven was over the sea and 120 kilometers
(75 miles) south of the North Korean capital of Pyongyang as of
6 p.m. local time, said Kim Dong Jin, a forecaster from the
Korea Meteorological Administration’s typhoon center in Seoul.  U.S. and South Korean forces suspended military exercises
due to the typhoon and will resume the drills tomorrow if the
weather improves, Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok said
by phone.  Power Cut  Power outages due to the typhoon disrupted operations at
petrochemical plants at the Yeosu Industrial Complex, including
those owned by  LG Chem Ltd. (051910)  and Hanwha Chemical Corp. LG Chem
resumed operations after a one-hour stoppage while Hanwha
Chemical forecast its plant may restart operations later in the
day, spokesmen for the companies said.  A total of 1.7 million homes and commercial buildings
temporarily lost power in southern areas of the peninsula,  Korea
Electric Power Corp. (KEP)  said in an e-mailed statement. As of 5 p.m.,
power was restored to 80 percent of the houses and buildings.  The typhoon flooded 314 hectares (776 acres) of rice
paddies and damaged fruit across 800 hectares of pear farms,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Ministry for Food,
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.  Most schools in areas in  South Korea  hit or expected to be
affected by the typhoon were closed today, the Ministry of
Education, Science and Technology said.  Bolaven yesterday hammered into  Japan ’s southernmost
islands, forcing flight cancellations, the closing of an oil
refinery and one of the highest weather alerts at the Kadena U.S.
military base on Okinawa.  Bolaven is the name for a plateau in  Laos , according to the
 Hong Kong Observatory , which lists names assigned to storms in
the northwest Pacific.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  