-- Zara Enters South Africa as Foreign Brands Seek Growth
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-08-27T23:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-27/zara-enters-south-africa-as-foreign-brands-seek-growth.html
For years, South Africans wanting
clothes from stores such as  Zara (ITX)  and Topshop could only get them
when traveling abroad. Now, they’re available at the local mall
as mid-market apparel retailers rush into the country, seeking
to create a base for expansion across Africa.  In the last year at least a half-dozen foreign clothing
brands, including Superdry, Steve Madden and G-Star, have opened
outlets in  South Africa .  Arcadia Group Ltd.’s Topshop is slated to open its first
stand-alone outlet in South Africa before December, in the
Johannesburg suburb of Sandton. A few kilometers away in Hyde
Park centre,  LVMH Louis Vuitton Moet Hennessey SA (MC) ’s Thomas Pink
in June opened its first shop in Sub-Saharan Africa.  Retail sales in South Africa advanced 8.3 percent in June
from a year earlier, compared with a 1.2 percent  decline  in the
euro region. Spending on clothing and footwear in South Africa
totaled 86.9 billion rand ($10.5 billion) last year, according
to the central bank.  While there’s no shortage of retailers in South Africa,
“the average person has not had access to these brands, so
there is growth for them,” said Mashuda Cassim, managing
director of  fund manager  Cachalia Capital Ltd. in Johannesburg.  Linda Kamauj spent a recent afternoon flipping through 499-
rand jeans and 259-rand T-shirts at Zara in Sandton, opposite
the newly renovated flagship of local clothing retailer
 Truworths International Ltd. (TRU)  The Zara store appeared to be at
least twice as busy as Truworths, with a line of more than a
dozen mothers, teenagers and young professionals waiting to
check out.  Aspirational Appeal  “I’d heard Zara had come to South Africa and came to see
what was on offer,” said the 34-year-old Kenyan, visiting
friends in Johannesburg. “I like the materials and styles,
they’re a bit different from what I can get back home” in
Nairobi.  South African shoppers have been able to buy brands such as
Gap and Levi locally for some years, though mostly in other
companies’ stores and typically at prices that were 30 percent
to 50 percent higher than in their home markets. For many  South
Africans , having foreign brands in your closet meant you had
money to travel and buy abroad.  “These brands are seen as aspirational in the South
African market,” said Gabriel Sacks, an assistant fund manager
at Aberdeen in  London . “To be seen buying or wearing a foreign
brand is still associated with wealth.”  ‘Sophisticated Economy’  The newcomers have to compete with South African stalwarts
such as Truworths, Woolworths Holdings Ltd. and the Foschini
Group Ltd., which operate chains that sell clothing, cosmetics,
jewelry, accessories and sporting goods.  “South Africa is quite a sophisticated economy with lots
of young emerging professionals who are increasingly becoming
aware of fashion,” said Truworths Chief Executive Officer
Michael Mark. The foreign brands “will have to still prove to
the local market that they can serve them.”  Woolworths Holdings Chief Executive Officer Ian Moir says
he welcomes the competition, since the arrival of companies such
as Zara will help raise consumer awareness of fashion. His
company, which has no relation to other Woolworths in the U.S.,
Britain and  Australia , focuses on office attire, casual wear and
lingerie.  “If your prices and quality are good, you will see
customer loyalty,” Moir said. “Whether I’m competing with
Zara, Topshop or Truworths, it makes no difference to me -- it’s
about getting the fashion mix right.”  Heading North  The real prize for both the South African incumbents and
the foreign interlopers may lie to the north. Political
stability is increasing, and Africa’s 1 billion-plus people are
young -- 42 percent are under 15, World Bank data show. As these
people increasingly migrate to cities in search of greater
opportunity, a new retail culture is springing up. In the
Nigerian cities of Lagos and Abuja, at least nine new malls have
opened in the past five years.  Sub-Saharan  Africa ’s economy has grown an average of 5.2
percent a year over the past five years, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , fueling the expansion of the middle
class. Africa now has more families earning in excess of $20,000
a year than India, according to McKinsey & Co.  “Africa remains a good long-term investment,” said
Woolworths CEO Moir. And he insists that his company and other
South African retailers have advantages over the foreigners when
it comes to working in Africa. “We’ve been around longer and
have developed relationships,” he said. “And it’s easier to
supply and source from South Africa.”  Planting Brands  South African retailers are planning new stores in
countries from  Angola  to  Nigeria  to benefit from rising wealth
on the poorest continent. Woolworths expects to more than triple
the proportion of sales it derives from other African countries,
Moir said, from about 3 percent today to 10 percent within seven
years.  Truworths expects to increase its stores on the continent
outside South Africa to 45 by yearend, up from 35 in June. The
company said revenue from Africa, excluding its home market,
rose 14 percent to 268 million rand in the year through June,
versus 12.5 percent growth in South Africa.  “The brands that get in first will have first mover
advantage, to get your brand firmly in the mind of the
consumer,” said Syd Vianello, an analyst at  Nedbank Group
Ltd. (NED) ’s securities unit. “You don’t want to be the last one
in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  