-- Abe’s Stimulus Folly May Destroy Yen and JGBs, Doshisha’s Hama
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-11-25T03:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/abe-s-stimulus-folly-may-destroy-yen-and-jgbs-doshisha-s-hama.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
reliance on fiscal and monetary easing to defeat deflation may
precipitate a “plunge” in the yen and sovereign bonds, said
Noriko Hama, an economics professor at Doshisha University’s
Business School in Kyoto.  “The  Bank of Japan  is no longer functioning as a proper
central bank,” Hama said at a speech in  Tokyo  on Nov. 21,
referring to the BOJ’s doubling of monthly bond purchases to
more than 7 trillion yen ($68.8 billion) in April. “The
scariest scenario, and the one we should be most wary of, is a
bottomless crash in the yen,” as the global financial community
loses faith in the currency, Hama said.  The introduction of so-called Abenomics has spurred a 19
percent tumble in the yen against the dollar in the past 12
months, pushing the currency 101.81 yen today, the weakest since
May 29. Hama said it should trade at 50 yen and that the
policies as are throwback to an era of export-driven economic
growth underwritten by a weak yen.  “Once the dollar’s excessive valuation is corrected, the
world will regain balance, with  Japan  as a pre-eminent exporter
country,” said Hama, who previously served as chief economist
at Mitsubishi Research Institute.  A plunge in the yen may also lead to a sell-off of the
country’s sovereign bonds, as domestic investors would be forced
to dispose of the notes, she said.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year yield was little changed at 0.63
percent as of 12:40 p.m. in Tokyo. It dropped to a record-low
0.315 percent on April 5, the day after the BOJ unveiled the
unprecedented bond-buying program.  In April, BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda announced a target
of achieving 2 percent inflation in about two years. He is
speaking today ahead of an announcement this week by Japan’s
statistics bureau that is expected to show the nation’s consumer
prices excluding fresh food rose 0.9 percent last month from a
year earlier, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . That would be the strongest advance
since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  