-- Activist Investors Help Companies, Not Workers
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-11-25T19:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/activist-investors-help-companies-not-workers.html
Activist funds, which buy stakes in
companies in order to force changes in their operations, are one
of the hottest trends in finance. Over the past year, the money
flowing into them has surged so much that their assets under
management are up more than 50 percent, while those of hedge
funds as a whole have risen less than 15 percent.  What is driving the growth of activism? The most immediate
reason is that the funds are performing well, as  a report  from
Citigroup Inc.’s Financial Strategy and Solutions Group, of
which I am chairman, shows. Since the beginning of 2009,
activist hedge funds, on average, have earned an annual return
after fees of almost 20 percent, compared with 13 percent for
the stock market as a whole and 8 percent for all hedge funds.
(That’s right: After fees are taken into account, hedge funds
have underperformed the market.) The managers of the most
successful funds are becoming legends by combining outsize
returns with colorful personalities.  These funds are also growing in number, and they’re aiming
for larger and larger companies. This year, for example,  Carl Icahn  bought a large share of Apple Inc. stock, ValueAct
Holdings LP has targeted Microsoft Corp., and Trian Fund
Management LP has pursued DuPont Co. Although most activist
campaigns still occur in the U.S., foreign activity is rising
rapidly, too.  Even strong stock market performance is no longer
protection against an activist effort. This year, more than half
of targets had outperformed their peers before the activist
campaigns began. Activists clearly believe that, with changes,
successful companies can perform even better in the future.  Added Value   Activists are increasingly turning their attention to
conglomerates with multiple lines of business and low
investment. And many companies are targeted multiple times; 60
percent of the companies activists went after this year had been
the subject of previous campaigns.  What impact do the activist funds have on the companies
they invest in? It would be impossible for activists to earn
such high returns if their campaigns did not increase the value
of the shares they buy. And that is indeed what happens: On
average, from a month prior to the campaign through two years
after it starts, targeted companies receive returns about 20
percent to 30 percent higher than those of their untargeted
peers.  This average, however, masks substantial variation in the
targeted companies, research by the Financial Strategy and
Solutions Group shows. Indeed, more than half of them experience
returns that lag the market. Activists often invest in several
companies simultaneously, and big returns from one more than
offset weak returns from the others and bring the average well
above the market.  Productivity Change  All of this makes you wonder: What lasting differences do
activist hedge funds make in the way targeted companies operate
and in the lives of the people working there?  Alon Brav of Duke University, Wei Jiang of Columbia
University and Hyunseob Kim of Cornell University  have explored 
these questions for manufacturing companies in the U.S. On
average, the researchers find, activism causes a temporary
decline in productivity, presumably as the company reorganizes,
but within three years, productivity rises significantly.  That scenario is consistent with the financial returns, and
research shows an important mechanism for the improvement:
Activists often push for the sale of less productive plants and,
under new owners, those plants become noticeably more
productive.  What about the effect on workers? Brav and his co-authors
find it is decidedly negative. While the workers’ productivity
rises -- on average, 7 percent -- their hourly wages remain the
same.  Furthermore, the number of workers and the hours per worker
both fall, for a total decline of more than 10 percent in labor
hours. Brav and his co-authors conjecture that the workers may
have previously enjoyed wages above their market value, and that
the activist intervention removes this wage premium. Note also
that they examined only averages; given the variation in
financial returns, one might expect the effects on business
performance and workers to also vary significantly.  As activists become ever more prominent, and the easier
targets are exhausted, their average excess financial returns
may diminish. And even (or especially) where activism helps to
produce better value, workers do not seem to share in the
benefits.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 