-- ADHD Fakers Hankering for Pills Thwarted by Lie Detectors
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2013-11-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/adhd-fakers-hankering-for-pills-thwarted-by-lie-detectors.html
College students faking symptoms of
attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder to get hold of pills
may have met their match in an ADHD lie detector device.  People are acting fidgety and inattentive to try to dupe
doctors into writing prescriptions for ADHD drugs, which can be
used to get high, stay awake or concentrate while studying. The
growing illicit use of the drugs on college campuses and a
tripling in emergency-room visits linked to the pills have
helped spur efforts to improve diagnosis.  That’s why Jeffrey Wishik, a neurologist and clinical
neurophysiologist specializing in ADHD, is one of a growing
number of doctors testing patients with  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Quotient
device. It’s not only to help root out fakers, but to improve
diagnosis standards as well.  “There have always been a few people who misuse, abuse and
divert medication,” said Wishik, a Providence, Rhode Island,
physician who has been seeing ADHD patients for about 30 years.
“It seems to have gotten much more prevalent in the last two to
three years.”  ADHD diagnosis usually relies on patient interviews -- a
subjective method that’s in part to blame for why prevalence
varies  substantially  by region. While behavior management and
counseling are treatment options,  most  patients receive
prescription stimulants including  Shire Plc (SHP) ’s Adderall XR and
Vyvanse and  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Ritalin.  Red Flags  Quotient is a computer equipped with infrared motion-tracking equipment, because even ADHD patients who aren’t
hyperactive tend to exhibit disorder-specific movements. It
works by comparing a test taker’s answers against a database of
responses from actual ADHD patients who aren’t taking
medication. A Pearson-funded study shows Quotient helps experts
predict with up to 92 percent accuracy whether someone is faking
the symptoms of ADHD.  Feigning distraction or answering questions haphazardly
raises red flags because responses don’t align with those of a
real ADHD patient, said Theresa Cerulli, one of 300 doctors
across the U.S. using the test on patients.  “When they’re performing no better than chance, you can
see that they’re not putting in true effort,” said Cerulli, who
practices in North Andover,  Massachusetts . “They’re trying to
throw the test.”  A surge in diagnosis rates since 2007 has helped U.S. sales
of such medicines more than double to $8.97 billion last year.
One survey found that more than a third of college students used
stimulant ADHD pills illicitly. Among members of fraternities,
that number soared to 55 percent.  Fooling Doctors  Mirroring those trends is the 15,585 U.S. emergency-room
visits linked to the medication in 2010, almost triple the
number in 2005, the Drug Abuse Warning Network  said in January .
The drugs, known to act on the brain in the same way as cocaine,
can raise blood pressure and heart rate and  lead  to feelings of
hostility and paranoia.  Not everyone is convinced that Quotient and similar devices
will have much impact on diagnosis standards or curbing
unnecessary prescriptions.  “Diagnosis relies on histories and a variety of functions,
not on how you do on a test at one certain time or in one
domain,” said Rachel G. Klein, professor of child and
adolescent psychiatry at  New York University’s Langone Medical
Center . “The notion that we can measure all this information
with a test is wishful thinking.”  Crisis Points  Still, the rise of overdoses and other “crisis points”
suggest more must be done, says Travis Millman, who manages the
Quotient unit at Pearson, a London-based publisher specializing
in education materials. Pearson publishes the Financial Times,
which competes with Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP in
providing financial news and information.  Even experienced doctors can be fooled by those motivated
enough to get their hands on the pills, Wishik said. A 2010
American Psychological Association  study  compared real ADHD
patients off their medication against university students
feigning ADHD symptoms. The fakers “readily produced ADHD-consistent profiles,” the researchers said.  “There is less vigor in this area then in other medical
conditions,” Millman said. “We need more stringent measures.”  Pearson  acquired  the product after purchasing BioBehavioral
Diagnostics Co. this year in a bid to gain entry in universities
and high schools. Quotient may also be useful in ruling out ADHD
for parents hoping medication will help their children’s school
performance or help discern whether ADHD-like symptoms are
better explained by stress, anxiety or sleep disorders.  Doctors’ Burden  “If the diagnosis is incorrect, the medication can make
things worse,” Cerulli said. “It puts a great burden on the
physician to know who is appropriately in need.”  Demand for Quotient is likely to rise among educators as
some  universities  tighten rules for the use of ADHD pills on
campus, Pearson said. Among doctors, the device went from
virtually no users in 2008 to about 100 in 2010, to about 300
today.  Quotient isn’t the only device approved by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration for ADHD assessment. NEBA Health LLC in
July won FDA approval for a  test  that calculates the ratio of
two standard brain wave frequencies to help determine whether a
child has ADHD. Such tools are gaining popularity as more
doctors find it challenging to spot fakers.  “It’s not terribly difficult to walk in to my office and
say, ‘Doc, I can’t sit still, I can’t focus, I’ve been this way
since I was a child,’” Wishik said. “But with the Quotient, I
actually have some data I can look at as well. The more
information you have, the better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  