-- Thai Baht, Stocks, Bonds Drop on Anti-Government Protests
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-11-25T09:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/thai-baht-stocks-bonds-drop-as-anti-government-protests-swell.html
Thailand ’s baht fell to a 10-week
low and the  stock index  had its worst close in two months after
foreign funds pulled money from local assets amid concern
political tension will intensify and harm growth.  Anti-government protests spread to government offices and
television stations today after more than 100,000 people joined
rallies yesterday against Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra.
Global funds pulled a net $2.1 billion from  Thai bonds  and
equities this month through Nov. 22, official data show. Signs
the  Federal Reserve  will taper stimulus also contributed to a
2.7 percent drop in the baht and a 35 basis point increase in
the 10-year bond yield in November.  The baht fell 0.5 percent to 31.98 per dollar as of 4:43
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 32.003, the weakest level since Sept. 12. The  SET Index (SET) 
of shares slumped 0.5 percent to 1,352.86, its lowest close
since Sept. 6, and the yield on the 3.625 percent notes due June
2023 climbed seven basis points to 4.28 percent.  “Investors want to stay away from Thailand amid concern
the protests will intensify or lead to violence again like last
time,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the Asian and
emerging-markets team at Mizuho Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Risk
sentiment wasn’t strong to begin with due to the Fed’s tapering
talk, and the political concern encouraged investors to take
some money out from Thailand.”  Amnesty Bill  Thai police spokesman Piya Utayo said forces are being
mobilized to counter a rally at the Ministry of Finance in
Bangkok as more than 100 anti-government protesters entered the
compound on Bangkok’s Rama 6 road earlier today.  Government opponents started street rallies in Bangkok last
month to oppose legislative efforts that they said would benefit
Yingluck’s brother,  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was ousted as
premier in a 2006 coup and has lived in self-imposed exile
overseas since fleeing graft charges in 2008. Yingluck’s
administration has struggled to contain weeks of protests
against a bill that would have provided amnesty for most
political offenses stretching back to the 2006 coup and a
separate move to make the senate fully elected.  The purpose of the demonstrations has switched in the past
week from opposing those legislative efforts to ending
“suffering under the rule of Thaksin and his people,” Suthep
Thaugsuban, a former member of the opposition Democrat Party who
resigned this month to lead the protests, said yesterday.  “The government has instructed police and all security
officers to handle the situation gently, based on international
practices, so the demonstration won’t be used as a tool by
people who want to make changes in a non-democratic way,”
Yingluck said yesterday on her official Facebook page, remarks
that were confirmed by her office.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, declined two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 6 percent.  Thailand’s economy grew by 2.7 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace since the first three
months of 2012, official data show. The government cut its 2013
expansion forecast to 3 percent last week, from an earlier
projection of as much as 4.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  