-- Taking Up Exercise at Retirement Triples Healthy Aging
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-11-25T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/taking-up-exercise-at-retirement-triples-healthy-aging.html
It’s never too late to start
exercising to improve your health, even if you’re about to
retire, according to a study.  People who took up exercise over a four-year period were
more than three times as likely to be healthy agers as those who
did nothing, according to the study of 3,454 people in  England 
whose average age was 64. Active adults who continued to
exercise during that time were seven times as likely to be
healthy agers as those who were consistently inactive.  The study,  published  today in the British Journal of Sports
Medicine, is one of the first to focus on how exercise affects
health in the elderly. Physical inactivity is the  fourth leading
risk factor  for premature death -- after smoking, excessive
drinking and obesity -- causing an estimated 3.2 million deaths
globally, according to the  World Health Organization .  “This study supports public health initiatives designed to
engage older adults in physical activity, even those who are of
advanced age,” the researchers, led by Mark Hamer at  University
College London , said in the published paper.  Participants, taken from the English Longitudinal Study of
Ageing, described the frequency and intensity of regular
physical activity from 2002 and every subsequent two years until
2011. Any participants with existing chronic disease were
excluded.  Healthy aging was measured through absence of major disease
and disability, mental health, cognitive abilities and ability
to maintain social connections.  The study was funded by the U.S. National Institute on
Aging and a consortium of U.K. government departments
coordinated by the  Office for National Statistics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  