-- Ansell to Purchase BarrierSafe Glove Maker for $615 Million
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2013-11-26T02:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/ansell-agrees-to-buy-barriersafe-glove-maker-for-615-million.html
Ansell Ltd. (ANN) , the maker of Hyflex
industrial gloves, agreed to buy BarrierSafe Solutions
International for about $615 million, bolstering sales of hand
protection products in  North America .  The acquisition from Odyssey Investment Partners and others
is subject to U.S. antitrust clearance and is expected to be
completed in the first quarter of 2014, Melbourne-based Ansell
said in an e-mailed statement today. The purchase will be funded
by a $300 million debt facility and the sale of new shares
through a private placement of A$338 million ($308 million) and
a share purchase plan of as much as A$100 million.  Acquisitions will be a key part of Ansell’s growth
strategy, the company said in July 2010. BarrierSafe is the
leading North American provider of single-use gloves, Ansell
said today. Founded in 1987, it has annual sales of about $290
million and will start adding to Ansell’s earnings next year,
excluding transaction costs and one-time integration expenses.  “The acquisition of BarrierSafe is a rare opportunity to
strengthen the position of Ansell in the core North American
single-use glove market and will further enhance our position as
the global leader in hand protection solutions,” said Magnus
Nicolin, Ansell’s chief executive officer and managing director,
in the statement.  Standard & Poor’s  revised its rating outlook on Ansell to
negative from stable following the announcement, meaning the
ratings company sees a one-in-three chance that Ansell’s BBB-long-term credit rating may be lowered over the next two years
“because of greater financial leverage and potential
integration risks following the acquisition,” it said today.  Ansell was advised by UBS AG, and Drinker Biddle & Reath
LLP and  Baker & McKenzie  provided legal advice.  The announcement was made before the start of trading on
the Australian stock exchange. Ansell fell 0.3 percent to
A$19.46 yesterday. The  shares , which are halted from trading
until tomorrow, have jumped 27 percent in 2013, almost double
the 15 percent increase of the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  