-- Markets Have ‘Deep Roots’ in UN Climate Process, IETA Says
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-11-25T16:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/markets-have-deep-roots-in-un-climate-process-forrister-says.html
Market mechanisms such as the
European Union’s  emissions-trading  system still have “deep
roots” in the United Nations climate talks after negotiators
failed to adopt major decisions this year, the head of a trading
lobby said.  Envoys from more than 190 countries backed some measures to
improve the UN’s carbon offset market, the Clean Development
Mechanism, at last week’s climate summit in Warsaw. They
postponed a mandated review until June and failed to agree on a
framework for linking national systems. While decisions on long-term measures were put back, the commitment to have markets at
the core of the future agreement is strong, according to Dirk Forrister, the chief executive officer of the International
Emissions Trading Association, a market lobby.  “Markets are going to be a part of the future
architecture,” IETA’s Forrister said in an interview in Warsaw
on Nov. 22. “We have to fight to ensure they’re workable and
that they’ve got good fundamentals.”  Market-based mechanisms such as emissions trading are
regarded by groups including IETA and the Climate Markets and
Investment Association as being the most economically efficient
way to achieve a set target for reducing climate pollution. The
UN’s Kyoto Protocol gave 39 industrialized countries a goal of a
collective 5.2 percent cut in greenhouse-gas output from 1990
levels by 2012, and discussions are continuing over extending a
target to 2020.  Emissions Clarity  Nations were unable to complete talks on a proposal known
as the Framework for Various Approaches to link domestic markets
from  China  to  California  and offer common standards for elements
like reporting and measuring emissions.  Chile was one developing nation that supported the start of
a global framework at the Warsaw meeting, said Juan Pedro
Searle, head of the climate change unit in the ministry of
energy.  “If you have a global deal with tools such as market
instruments, countries will have more clarity on how to tackle
emissions,” Searle said in a Nov. 22 interview.  Talks broke down as countries from the European Union to
 New Zealand  sought to continue discussions in Warsaw while
nations including  India  and  Bolivia  proposed delaying discussion
to a meeting in June.  “There was no agreement on the text of an agreement, and
no agreement to continue the work into a second week,” Richard Muyungi, a delegate from  Tanzania  chairing the discussions, said
at the closing session of the negotiating group.  Ambition   Countries need to increase their emission-reduction targets
before talks can continue, T. S. Tirumurti, a climate negotiator
for India, said in Warsaw. Until then, “we don’t see how we can
start discussions on another market mechanism,” he said.
“Ambition is the key.”  The postponement of talks on the future framework for
national markets disappointed emissions-trading supporters, who
pointed out that when countries first approved a linking
mechanism in Durban in November 2011, they gave negotiators two
years to come up with the mechanism.  “Warsaw’s been a big disappointment just because I think
there were some things within reach, close to getting good
conclusions, but that seemed to get bogged down in procedure and
petty disputes rather than big fundamentals,” IETA’s Forrister
said.  The failure of the talks to advance a global network of
markets means that confidence in carbon trading won’t come from
the United Nations process, but instead from national and
regional markets, according to Jonathan Grant, the
sustainability and climate change director at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “We’re not seeing anything yet from this process that
builds confidence in the carbon markets,” Grant said by e-mail
on Nov. 22. “That boost will have to come from developments in
Brussels, Beijing and  Sacramento .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in Warsaw at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net 
Mathew Carr in Warsaw at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  