-- Harrisburg Sets Sale of Incinerator That Drove Insolvency
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-11-25T18:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/harrisburg-to-sell-incinerator-that-drove-insolvency-next-week.html
Harrisburg left potholes unfilled
and raised income taxes as it sank into debt from an incinerator
that was supposed to reap millions. Now, residents of
 Pennsylvania ’s capital are days away from shedding the facility
that drove the city to insolvency.  The Lancaster County Solid Waste Management Authority said
it would issue $132.3 million in tax-exempt revenue bonds as
early as next week to finance its purchase of the incinerator,
according to deal documents and William B. Lynch, the city’s
state-appointed receiver. Proceeds would go toward creditors
owed $362.5 million, or about seven times the city’s general-fund budget.  “When the incinerator is actually sold, an enormous burden
is lifted from the city,” Lynch said by telephone today. “It
marks the start of a new beginning.”  The sale marks one toward fiscal stability. Another
municipal-bond offering that will finance the lease of the city
parking system, also to go toward incinerator claims, will occur
in December, Lynch said. Harrisburg must then deal with other
challenges, such as a limited tax base and a  poverty rate  more
than twice Pennsylvania’s.  The plight of Harrisburg, a city of about 50,000 on the
Susquehanna River, stems from the borrowing binge of former
Mayor Stephen Reed. Over his 28-year tenure, the municipality
spent millions of dollars on projects from a minor-league
baseball team to a Wild West museum that was never built.  ‘Substantial Risk’  The trash-to-energy facility, which dates to 1972, fell out
of compliance with federal regulations in the 1990s. In 2003,
Harrisburg decided to overhaul and expand the plant that already
had over $100 million of outstanding debt, according to an audit
released last year. City officials and advisers knew there was
“substantial risk” that the facility wouldn’t repay its debt
and proceeded with bond deals anyway, the report said.  Costs ran over estimates, the contractor was fired, and
taxpayers ended up owing more than $300 million for a project
that was supposed to cost $64.2 million and generate a total
surplus of $57.4 million by 2028, according to a 2001 projection
cited in the audit.  Dauphin County and bond insurer Assured Guaranty Municipal
Corp. made incinerator debt payments after the city started
skipping them in 2009. Harrisburg unsuccessfully filed for
bankruptcy in 2011 and that year was placed in receivership,
Pennsylvania’s only one for a municipality.  Bond Proceeds  Under Lynch’s recovery plan, proceeds from the bonds
financing the plant’s sale will go to the county and Assured, a
unit of Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  The county
and company will also receive cash from the lease of the parking
system.  The Lancaster authority buying the facility is selling the
bonds in two series. The largest, at $108.29 million, received a
grade of AA-, fourth-highest, with a stable outlook from
 Standard & Poor’s , deal documents say. The second piece, at $24
million, is rated one step higher at AA and is guaranteed by
Dauphin County, the documents show. The final maturity of both
deals is 2033.  The agency, which handles trash in Lancaster County, will
give the plant a new name -- the Susquehanna Resource Management
Complex. Harrisburg will pay tipping fees of $190 per ton
annually through 2019, increasing to $195 in 2020, documents
show.  Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC and
Wells Fargo Securities are underwriting the incinerator
obligations.  A Harrisburg Authority incinerator bond backed by Assured
Guaranty Municipal traded Nov. 22 at an average yield of 5.5
percent, or about 162 basis points above benchmark debt, data
compiled by Bloomberg shows. The average yield premium was 214
basis points on June 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  