-- Asia Refiners Weigh Impact of Iran Oil Insurance Deal on Imports
-- B y   D e b j i t   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-11-25T05:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/asia-refiners-weigh-impact-of-iran-oil-insurance-deal-on-imports.html
Refiners in  South Korea  and Japan
said they have no immediate plans to boost crude purchases from
 Iran  while Indian processors intend to maintain contracted
volumes after the EU lifted a ban on insuring tankers.  It’s still too early to say whether  SK Innovation Co. (096770) ,
South Korea’s largest refiner, will increase purchases, Lee Mi
Ji, a spokeswoman in  Seoul , said by phone. Japan’s Showa Shell
Sekiyu K.K. doesn’t plan to change its supply deals for the time
being, according to the company. Indian Oil Corp., Hindustan
Petroleum Corp. and Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd.
said that while the removal of restrictions will enable them to
import contracted volumes more easily, they don’t intend to buy
more than previously planned.  “Insurance was an issue, but the key point is that there
is no lifting of current restrictions on Iranian crude, they
just remain the same,” said  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. “We don’t anticipate any
change in crude exports.”  The end of the European Union ban on insuring ships
carrying Iranian crude is part of a first-step agreement that
will give the country as much as $7 billion in relief from
economic sanctions over six months in exchange for curbs on its
nuclear program. Oil exports will be held to about 1 million
barrels a day, or 60 percent below 2012 levels, under western
sanctions that remain in force, according to the White House.  Buyers of Iranian crude that have already reduced purchases
won’t be required to make further cuts over the next six months
under yesterday’s accord. The EU will continue to prohibit crude
imports from the country while banking and financial measures
will remain in place. Sanctions have deprived the nation of more
than $80 billion in revenue, U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration said in a statement.  Import Cut  Iranian crude imports by  China , Japan and South Korea
averaged about 783,000 barrels a day in 2012, down 29 percent
from the previous year, according to customs data from the three
countries. The three nations imported about 761,000 barrels a
day during the first nine months of this year, up 1 percent from
the same period in 2012.  India ’s purchases are forecast to total 11 million tons in
the twelve months ending March 31, a drop of about 15 percent
from the previous year, Petroleum Secretary Vivek Rae said Nov.
8. That’s the equivalent of about 220,000 barrels a day.  “We can go ahead and import the contracted volume for this
year,” said Rajkumar Ghosh, the director of refineries at
Indian Oil, the country’s largest processor. The company has a
deal to buy 1.2 million metric tons of Iranian oil in the year
ending March 31, of which 0.5 to 0.6 million tons have been
imported since April, he said. Middle East suppliers sell the
bulk of their crude in long-term contracts.  Tanker Fleet  The insurance restrictions affected about 95 percent of the
global tanker fleet because the ships are covered under rules
governed by European law. Carrying Iranian oil would invalidate
ships’ insurance against risks including spills and collisions,
according to the  International Group  of P&I Clubs. The Japanese
government started providing sovereign cover for its tanker
operators while India was due to consider a 20 billion rupee
($320 million) fund to help cover imports.  “This is a precursor to overall easing of Iran
sanctions,” P.P. Upadhya, the managing director of Mangalore
Refinery, said by phone yesterday. “We are importing about
500,000 tons every month since August, so we should reach our 4
million-ton plan by March.”  The accord will let Iran raise exports by nearly 300,000
barrels a day from last month’s level, said  Olivier Jakob ,
managing director of consultant Petromatrix GmbH.  IEA Estimates  Imports fell to 715,000 barrels a day in October, compared
with 1.26 million in the previous month, the  International
Energy Agency  said in a Nov. 14 market report. Shipments from
the country still averaged 1.1 million barrels a day in the
first nine months of this year, according to the IEA.  The combined effects of oil, shipping and financial
restrictions caused buyers of Iranian crude to take less than
sanctions allowed, Jakob said by phone from Zug,  Switzerland . By
loosening sanctions on insurance, the agreement will enable
importers to buy their full allotments, he said.  Showa Shell is “closely monitoring” the situation around
sanctions, Satoshi Yoshida, a Tokyo-based spokesman for the
refiner, said by phone today. The company imports crude from
Iran based on annual term-contracts. An official for JX Nippon
Oil & Energy Co.,  Japan ’s biggest refiner, couldn’t comment
immediately when called today.  Insurance Pool  “We are waiting to see how things will unfold from now on
but it’s too early to say whether we will expand our imports,”
SK’s Lee said by phone today. “If things work out well, we are
willing to take a positive perspective on this lifting of the
sanctions.”  Hindustan Petroleum plans to import 0.8 million tons of
Iranian crude by March if it can begin shipments next month,
B.K. Namdeo, director of refineries at India’s third-largest
state-run refiner, said yesterday. The country’s processors are
unlikely to exceed their targets in the current financial year,
he said.  “We will be able to start importing Iran crude even
without the government’s insurance pool,” Namdeo said.  In June 2012, there were 23 importers of Iranian crude;
today, only six remain - China, India, South Korea, Japan,
 Turkey  and  Taiwan , according to U.S. officials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debjit Chakraborty in  New Delhi  at 
 dchakrabor10@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pratish Narayanan at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net  