-- Auto Loan Underwriting Poised to Loosen in 2014, Moody’s Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-11-25T19:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/auto-loan-underwriting-poised-to-loosen-in-2014-moody-s-says.html
Underwriting standards on auto loans
will slip in 2014 as increased competition pushes lenders to
take more risk, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  “Auto lenders will continue their return to higher levels
of risk-taking, a trend that emerged in 2013 and will gain
momentum in the coming year,” Moody’s analysts Jeffrey Hibbs,
Mack Caldwell and William Black wrote in a report today.
Heightened competition will result in “ever-more generous loan
terms,” they said.  Losses on vehicle debt for borrowers from the least
creditworthy to prime customers have held below historic norms
during the past several years as the  U.S. economy  improves,
according to Moody’s. Along with low interest  rates , that’s
drawing new lenders, the New York-based analysts said.  Loan terms to buyers with good credit started to relax
“marginally” about a year ago, they said. Subprime lenders
have been loosening their standards back toward pre-crisis
levels for several years, leading to an increase in
delinquencies in recent months, the analysts said.  Losses on asset-backed bond deals linked to the debt are
expected to be contained as an improving economy offsets relaxed
underwriting, according to Moody’s.  The credit grader is forecasting auto sales, which are on
pace for the best year since 2007, to exceed 16 million in 2014
as U.S. households look to replace old cars. Underwriting will
likely get worse when purchases level off.  “Once sales begin to peak and subsequently subside,
lenders anxious to maintain share and sales targets will further
accelerate the pace of weaker credit originations,” the
analysts said.  Leases are becoming more common as lenders seek to make
cars more affordable, they said. Leasing, which had
traditionally been more popular in the luxury market, is taking
a growing share of non-luxury sales as prices rise, according to
Moody’s. The percentage of vehicle  sales  resulting from leases
surpassed 28 percent this year, up from less than 19 percent in
2007, the credit grader said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  