-- Banco do Brasil Leads Banks Lower Before Supreme Court Rulings
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-11-25T18:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/banco-do-brasil-leads-banks-lower-before-supreme-court-rulings.html
Banco do Brasil SA  fell to an 11-week low, leading a decline among Brazilian lenders before the
 Supreme Court  starts ruling on depositor lawsuits that could
cost the country’s banks 149 billion reais ($65 billion).  Banco do Brasil, Latin America’s largest lender by assets,
slipped 3.9 percent to 23.68 reais at 4:23 p.m. in  Sao Paulo . A
close at that level would be the lowest since Sept. 5. It was
the worst performer on the MSCI  Brazil /Financials Index, which
lost 1.5 percent as 12 of its 15 member stocks fell.  STF, as the country’s highest court is known, is set to
start ruling Nov. 27 on depositor lawsuits stemming from
Brazil’s efforts to stem hyperinflation from 1986 to 1994. The
government froze  bank deposits , introduced new currency and
reduced returns on  savings accounts .  “The ruling should be the driver for banks in the short
term,” Felipe Rocha, an analyst at brokerage firm Omar Camargo
said by phone from Curitiba, Brazil. “It’s hard to assess the
risk. And when in doubt, the market is selling the stocks. It
will continue to pressure banks until we get a clearer
picture.”  Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Banco Bradesco SA, Latin
America’s largest banks by market value, slumped 2.5 percent and
1.7 percent.  A ruling in depositors’ favor may cost lenders 149 billion
reais collectively and reduce by 1 trillion reais the amount of
credit available nationwide, according to Isaac Ferreira, the
central bank’s prosecutor.  “One-quarter of the financial-system capital would be
impacted,” he told reporters in Brasilia on Nov. 22 after
meeting with Chief Justice Joaquim Barbosa.  Brazil’s bank association, Febraban, said in an e-mailed
statement that lenders complied with the law that was in effect
and shouldn’t be penalized. The group declined to comment on the
central bank’s estimated losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  