-- Beermaker Efes No Match for Putin Faces Downgrade: Turkey Credit
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-11-25T15:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/beermaker-efes-no-match-for-putin-faces-downgrade-turkey-credit.html
Turkey ’s biggest brewer risks losing
an investment-grade rating as government officials at home and
in Russia, its two largest markets, clamp down on alcohol sales
and consumption.  The yield on  Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii AS (AEFES) 
dollar bond due November 2022 surged 57 basis points in the past
month to 5.79 percent on Nov. 22 amid alcohol restrictions in
Turkey and as the company said Nov. 14 that it will stop brewing
beer in Moscow from Jan. 1. That compares with an 11 basis-point
gain in JPMorgan Chase & Co’s CEMBI Consumer Index.  Turkey imposed on Sept. 9 a night-time ban on sales of
alcohol from shops and kiosks following a law earlier this year
restricting promotion of alcohol, adding warning labels and
outlawing sales near mosques and schools. In Russia, higher
excise taxes and restrictions on beer sales have crimped revenue
after the government passed laws curbing consumption. Moody’s
Investors Service changed its  credit rating  outlook on Istanbul-based Efes to negative on Nov. 20.  “Revenue generation and profit margins are issues,”
Neslihan Yilmaz, a trader at Maxis Securities in  London , said in
a phone interview Nov. 22. “The possibility of a downgrade
could have a negative impact on Anadolu Efes’s outstanding bond
issue and lead to a repricing of risk.”  Russian Market  In its note Moody’s cited “depressed” financial and
operational performance and warned it could cut the rating next
year unless the brewer took steps to improve it.  Moody’s at the same time affirmed Efes’s Baa3 rating, the
lowest investment-grade, on its $500 million bonds due November
2022. The rating benefits from Efes’s equity investment in Coca-Cola Icecek AS, the Baa3-rated unit owned by Coca-Cola Co. and
Efes’s parent Anadolu Endustri Holding AS, Moody’s said.  Standard & Poor’s  has an equivalent BBB- rating on Efes
with a stable outlook, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Fitch Ratings  hasn’t assigned a grade to the company.  The company’s decision to close a brewery in Moscow was
part of efforts to counter slowing sales, Efes said in an e-mailed response to questions today. Russia’s beer market will
register declines in the “low-double digits,” while Turkey’s
will drop by “high-single digits” this year, it said.  Beer Sales  Efes sales in the first nine months of this year retreated
10 percent in Russia, which accounts for 45 percent of its
global market, according to Moody’s. Its share in Russia
declined “over-proportionally when compared to the wider
market” because some Russian retailers dropped Efes products
after price negotiations, the ratings company said.  “Despite the unfavorable market conditions in both Turkey
and Russia, we are taking all necessary measures to
counterbalance these negative impacts to our performance,” Efes
said today.  The company bought  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s Russian operations in
2012 in a $1.9 billion deal, in which the London-based brewer
acquired a 24 percent stake in the Turkish company. Efes, whose
market share in Russia fell to 13.5 percent by the end of
September from 16.1 percent a year earlier, according to
Moody’s, competes with  Carlsberg A/S (CARLB) ,  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) 
and  Heineken NV (HEIA)  in the country.  “Efes may opt to increase its prices for some premium
brands with an eye on market share in order to improve
margins,” Melda Agirdas, an analyst for Istanbul-based
Finansinvest, said in an e-mailed note Nov. 22.  Turkish Outlook  In Turkey, where Efes sales volumes fell 12.2 percent in
the nine months through September, the brewer has a 77 percent
market share, according to a Nielsen report cited by Moody’s.
The remainder is held by  Turk Tuborg (TBORG) , owned by Carlsberg’s
Israeli partners CBC Group.  “Contractions in volumes in Turkey will continue in the
first half of next year,” Agirdas said. “In the remainder of
next year, I expect flat sales in volumes.”  The yield on  two-year  lira government notes fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 8.95 percent at 4:19 p.m.
in Istanbul. The lira rose 0.1 percent to 2.0028 per dollar,
paring its drop this year to 10.9 percent.  Shares in Efes slid 4.7 percent since the brewer announced
its intention to stop making beer in Moscow, taking this year’s
drop to 13 percent.  “The company was a bit late in responding to changing
market dynamics and competitive pressures, partly due to the
merger process with SAB Miller” in  Russia , Kenan Cosguner, an
analyst at BNP Paribas SA’s Istanbul unit, said in e-mailed
comments Nov. 22. Next year will see “tougher competition in
Russia.” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  