-- Best Italian Wine Boosted by Pinot Grigio Pioneer: Review
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2013-11-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/best-italian-wine-boosted-by-pinot-grigio-pioneer-review.html
You can thank Livio Felluga of
Friuli for two things: one, for bringing pinot grigio to the
attention of the American public, and, two, for unleashing a
tsunami of bad pinot grigio on the American public.  I remember clearly the first time I tasted Livio Felluga’s
pinot grigio in 1978 in  New York . Before that, there wasn’t a
single Italian white wine I would have rated as anything more
than pleasant.  Not that there was much to judge by: soave (often sold in a
green bottle shaped like a fish) and verdicchio were about the
only examples available.  So I was amazed by the richness, complexity, and aromatics
of the Felluga pinot grigio I tasted, as well as by its coppery
color -- called ramato -- that made many potential buyers think
the wine had gone bad.  Though its production and distribution was narrow,
Felluga’s wine was widely praised by the critics. It took
American importers to capitalize on the novelty of pinot grigio.
David Taub, who brought in  Cavit  wines, and  Tony Terlato , who
did the same for Santa Margherita, were both enormously
successful.  Today pinot grigio is the top-selling Italian wine in the
U.S. and U.K., with more than 600 producers making about 9
million liter cases. Some 90 percent is exported, principally to
the U.S., Germany and U.K.  Most of them make plonk from any region of Italy the grape
would grow. Thus, while Livio Felluga is still the high standard
for pinot grigio, the company has focused more on its own
proprietary wines,  Terre Alta  and Abbazia di Rosazzo.  Bottling Plan  Livio Felluga, now in his nineties, founded his winery in
1955 on the northern region of Friuli Venezia-Giulia, bottling
his wines at a time when most others made and sold wine in bulk.  By the 1960s, he was using the most advanced vinicultural
techniques to prevent oxidation and to keep his wines fresh and
long-lived, which came to be called the “Friulian method.”  Today the family, which includes his children, Maurizio,
Elda, Andrea and Filippo, oversees 395 acres (160 hectares) in
the Collio and Colli Orientali del Friuli regions, producing
800,000 bottles yearly, for sale in 70 countries.  Felluga still produces a great deal of pinot grigio -- and
I still think it’s the best in  Italy .  He has broadened the vineyards with many other varietals
like pinot bianco, chardonnay, sauvignon blanc, picolit,
refosco, sauvignon blanc and friulano, as well as making red
wines from refosco dal peduncolo rosso, merlot, and pignolo.  Wine Picks  The family is most proud of two current wines.  One is the single vineyard “Super Friulano” called Terre
Alte (“Highlands”) made since 1981 from a blend of Friulano,
pinot bianco, and sauvignon blanc, only in excellent vintages.
It now carries the Italian wine law designation of IGT
(indicazione geografia tipica).  The other is  Felluga’s  newest project, Abbazia di Rosazzo,
made on the estate of an historic abbey with roses, leased to
the family since the 1970s. First produced in 2009, within two
years the wine was awarded the prestigious designation of DOCG
Rosazzo (denominazione di controllata e guarantita). The wine is
a blend of historic strains of pignolo, picolit and ribolla
gialla.  After the grapes go through a cold soaking and pressing,
the must is fermented in steel tanks with Friulian yeasts, then
racked into oak casks to complete the alcoholic and malolactic
fermentations.  Tasting Notes  I sampled an array of Felluga’s wines with Andrea, 50, who
is in charge of the winemaking, over pizza and pasta.  Upon tasting the first wine, I was brought back to that
moment when I was introduced to Felluga’s wines. These had the
same degree of finesse and specific terroir that distinguished
that first pinot grigio 35 years ago.  What’s more, I found that unlike 99 percent of all Italian
white wines -- and 90 percent of all white wines -- the
potential for aging in the Felluga wines was remarkable, with
older bottlings taking on added nuance with no compromise of
freshness and fruit.  Terre Alte 2011: Pale green gold, very distinctive nose,
aromats of roses that is very identifiable as Felluga, clean
with fine acid balance.  Terre Alte 2009: More velvety, smoother, with a synergy of
terroir elements. Bottle with a screw cap for U.S. and U.K.  Terre Alte 2008: Not as much complexity as 2009, a little
pepper, quite dry, but the fruit is bright and makes this ideal
with seafood and cheeses.  Terre Alte 2007: Very big mouthful, with grapes harvested
early. A remarkable long lasting wine.  Terre Alte 2006: Very round, voluptuous showing remarkable
longevity, suggesting all Felluga whites should be saved for a
year or two for true maturity.  Abbazia di Rosazzo 2011: Unusual, unique flavor unlike any
other Italian white wine, with lots of spice from malvasia,
ribolla gialla, more fruit, a blend of friulano, sauvignon
blanc, pinot bianco.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 