-- BlackBerry Executives Leave as CEO Rebuilds Management
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-11-25T21:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/blackberry-executives-depart-as-new-ceo-rebuilds-management-team.html
BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  announced the
departure of three top executives as new Chief Executive Officer
John Chen shifts away from the consumer market to try to turn
around the struggling smartphone maker.  Chief Financial Officer Brian Bidulka is departing after
eight years at BlackBerry and will be replaced by James Yersh,
who had been controller and head of compliance, the company said
in a statement today. Chief Operating Officer Kristian Tear and
Chief Marketing Officer Frank Boulben, who were hired under
previous CEO Thorsten Heins, are both leaving.  Chen, the former CEO of Sybase Inc., took the reins at
BlackBerry on Nov. 4, following a failed attempt by  Fairfax
Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  to buy the Waterloo, Ontario-based
company for $4.7 billion. BlackBerry then raised $1 billion in a
convertible debt sale, giving it more of a cushion as Chen
formulates his comeback plan to rebuild BlackBerry as a smaller,
more focused company.  “The organization was top-heavy to begin with,” said
Sameet Kanade, an analyst at Jacob Securities Inc. in Toronto.
“If the management team was not effective, it made sense to
start with a clean slate.”  Neither Boulben nor Tear will be replaced, a sign of the
company’s strategy to narrow its focus to business users after
failing to attract consumers.  “We need to focus more on the enterprise, and this is
where my experience comes in,” Chen said in an interview the
day he joined the company.  Z10 Flop  Given that shift, eliminating the marketing chief position
makes sense, Kanade said. Removing the operating chief “shows
that Chen wants a more hands-on approach,” Kanade said. The
move also might be a precursor to bringing some of his former
Sybase colleagues over to BlackBerry, he said.  BlackBerry fell short of analysts’ expectations this year
with its new flagship phone, the Z10. It wasn’t introduced in
the U.S., a top market for new smartphones, until months after
its debut in the U.K. and  Canada . In September, BlackBerry took
a charge of $934 million to write down unsold inventory and cut
the number of planned models to four from six.  An ad for the Z10 during February’s Super Bowl, where a 30-second spot can cost as much as $4 million, was  panned  by
critics such as Alexander Chernev, a Northwestern University
marketing professor, for failing to highlight the device’s
features.  Sybase Experience  With consumers falling out of its grasp, BlackBerry is
counting on Chen’s experience to help it hold on to business
customers. When Chen assumed control of Sybase in 1998, the
software maker was in the midst of a restructuring, had
announced plans to cut 10 percent of its workforce and was
trading near a record low. In 2010, he sold Sybase to SAP AG for
$5.8 billion, with the  stock trading  more than six times higher
than at the start of his tenure.  BlackBerry was little changed at $6.25 at the close in  New
York . The stock has dropped 47 percent this year and is more
than 95 percent below its 2008 high.  Roger Martin , a professor at the University of Toronto’s
Rotman School of Management, also has resigned from the
company’s board, BlackBerry said today.  Chen, who also serves as executive chairman, will give an
update on the company’s new organizational structure when
BlackBerry posts its fiscal third-quarter earnings on Dec. 20.
It’s expected to report a loss of 42 cents a share, excluding
some items, and a sales decline of 42 percent to $1.59 billion,
according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts’ estimates.  “I look forward to working more directly with the talented
teams of engineers and the sales and marketing teams around the
world to facilitate the BlackBerry turnaround and to drive
innovation,” Chen said in today’s statement.  Severance Packages  Bidulka will get a severance package worth about $3.06
million, based on a company filing in May. Boulben, who was
named as marketing chief in May 2012, will receive about $2.27
million, made up of a combination of base pay, benefits,
retirement savings and options. Tear, a former executive at Sony
Mobile Communications whose hiring was announced the same time
as Boulben, will get $1.52 million.  Adam Emery, a spokesman for BlackBerry, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  