-- Blackstone Said to Seek IPO of La Quinta Instead of Sale
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-11-25T16:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/blackstone-said-to-seek-ipo-of-la-quinta-instead-of-sale.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  plans to file
for an initial public offering of its La Quinta Inns & Suites
hotel chain rather than sell the company on the private market,
according to people with knowledge of the firm’s thinking.  Blackstone, which had started a sales process for La Quinta
and received initial bids last month, is betting it can get
higher returns through an IPO, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the plans are private. A 20 percent gain
in Extended Stay America Inc., co-owned by Blackstone, since its
Nov. 12 share sale helped sway the decision, they said.  Blackstone, the world’s largest alternative-asset manager,
is taking some of its biggest real estate holdings public as
U.S. stocks  rise  to records and hotel occupancies  climb . La
Quinta, valued at about $4.5 billion, would be the New York-based company’s third lodging IPO. In addition to Extended Stay,
Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. is poised for a $2.25 billion
offering next month that would set a record for the industry.  “It’s an advantageous point in the hotel cycle,” said
Drew Babin, senior lodging analyst at CBRE Clarion Securities, a
Radnor, Pennsylvania-based firm that manages about $20 billion.
“Supply growth is limited and we expect three more years” of
above-average gains in rates and occupancy.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, declined to comment
on the IPO plans.  Year’s End  La Quinta, based in Irving,  Texas , may file for the stock
offering before the end of the year, said the people with
knowledge of its plans. Blackstone hired JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Morgan Stanley earlier this year to explore a sale or IPO of
the company, and received first-round offers in early October.  Companies have raised $69 billion in IPOs in the U.S. this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the most
since 2007, the data show. The Bloomberg IPO Index, which
measures the performance of U.S. stocks in their first publicly
traded year, has gained 45 percent in 2013.  Hotel stocks have been outperforming the rest of the
market.  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the largest publicly traded
chain, gained 35 percent in the 12 months through last week;
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. jumped 41 percent; and
Wyndham Worldwide Corp. surged 43 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  has rallied 30 percent to a record.  La Quinta operates more than 800 mid-price, limited-service
hotels with about 80,000 rooms in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Mexico ,
according to its website. Select-service hotels offer limited
food and beverage and other services.  Fewer Costs  “Room rates are similar to full-service hotels, but you
don’t have to have all the costly bells and whistles,” said
 John Murray , president of  Hospitality Properties Trust (HPT) , which
owns about 291 hotels under brands such as Hyatt Place,
Courtyard and Candlewood Suites that are managed by operators
including Marriott.  Murray declined to comment on whether his company made a
bid for La Quinta. Hospitality Properties, based in Newton,
 Massachusetts , last year formed an alliance with Wyndham, which
is trying to expand its portfolio of managed hotels.  Wyndham and  Choice Hotels International Inc. (CHH)  were among the
companies that had expressed interest in buying La Quinta, as
had private-equity firms, people familiar with the auction
process have said. It couldn’t be determined whether they had
submitted offers.  Scott Carman, a spokesman for Rockville, Maryland-based
Choice Hotels, and Margo Happer, a spokeswoman for  Wyndham (WYN)  in
Parsippany,  New Jersey , declined to comment.  Hotel Brands  Blackstone acquired La Quinta in January 2006 for about $3
billion. The company at the time owned and operated about 360
 hotels  and franchised more than 240 others under its namesake
brand, Baymont Inn & Suites, Woodfield Suites and Budgetel.
Blackstone sold the Baymont brand to Wyndham’s predecessor
company and consolidated properties under the La Quinta name.  Blackstone also folded other purchases into La Quinta and
invested more than $600 million in improvements. Last year, the
firm won a two-year extension to July 2014 on $2.65 billion of
La Quinta loans as part of a debt restructuring.  Blackstone named three directors to La Quinta’s board in
August, including Henry Cisneros, former secretary of the
Department of Housing and Urban Development. Boards often add
outside members before IPOs to meet exchange listing rules
requiring public companies to have independent directors.  Better Margins  Lower development and operating costs give select-service
hotels higher profit margins than luxury chains, making them
attractive to investors, said  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. in  New York .  “There are only so many Four Seasons you can build, but La
Quintas you can build almost indefinitely,” he said. “There is
tremendous demand with these types of businesses.”  Revenue per available room, an industry measure of average
daily room  rates  and  occupancy , in the midscale category rose 4
percent to $44.23 from January through October compared with a
year earlier. For luxury hotels, there was a 7.6 percent
increase to $218.24, according to STR, a Hendersonville,
Tennessee-based lodging-research firm.  Midscale chains fared the best during the credit crisis and
subsequent recession, according to STR. Revpar for the sector
fell 1.5 percent in 2008 and and 15 percent in 2009, the
smallest declines among six lodging categories. Luxury hotels
performed the worst, with revpar decreasing 5.2 percent in 2008
and 24 percent in 2009.  There probably will be enough investor demand to
accommodate three hotel IPOs from Blackstone, said Babin of CBRE
Clarion. La Quinta’s business is a different part of the
industry from Extended Stay, which caters to long-stay
travelers, and Hilton, which owns brands ranging from Embassy
Suites to Waldorf Astoria.  “Market demand is clearly absorbing Extended Stay, and
early indications on Hilton paint a similar picture,” Babin
said. As long as the IPOs are “reasonable,” there are
“sufficient funds available to absorb them as generalist
investors rotate away from yield investments with less-compelling growth stories,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  