-- Brazil State Seeks 180 Megawatts of Solar Farms to Lure Industry
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-11-25T14:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/brazil-state-seeks-180-megawatts-of-solar-farms-to-lure-industry.html
Brazil ’s northeastern state of
Pernambuco will auction 180 megawatts of solar farms on Dec. 20
as it seeks to become a manufacturing hub for the expanding
industry.  Developers will bid down from a maximum price of 250 reais
($109.13) a megawatt hour and the power plants must be completed
within three years, Eduardo Azevedo, Pernambuco’s executive
secretary for energy, said today in a telephone interview.
Companies that agree to buy the power will qualify for a
government rebate on the value-added tax ICMS, so they’ll be
effectively paying 164.87 reais a megawatt hour, in line with
market rates.  Brazil is seeking to boost investment in solar plants and
Pernambuco is well suited to supply equipment, Azevedo said. The
state is in talks with German, Korean, Chinese and Italian
companies to build factories for solar equipment including
inverters and support structures for panels.  “Brazil’s sunniest region is the northeast and Pernambuco
is right in the middle of this,” he said. “It’s got great
transport links and Suape Port, which can be used to export
equipment to other states and countries.”  One of Brazil’s ten biggest energy traders will guarantee
power bought by companies in the auction, Azevedo said without
identifying the company because a contract hasn’t been signed
yet.  Brazil has three solar plants with 2.5 megawatts of total
capacity online, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About
7.6 megawatts of projects have been financed or are under
construction.  Brazil’s ICMS tax is officially known as Imposto sobre
Circulacao de Mercadorias e Servicos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  