-- WTI Crude Declines After Iran Nuclear Agreement
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-11-25T20:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/brent-slide-leads-energy-prices-lower-after-iran-accord.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
for a second day after Iran and world powers reached an interim
accord on its nuclear program.  Prices dropped 0.8 percent. The agreement signed yesterday
in Geneva limits Iran’s atomic activities in exchange for as
much as $7 billion in relief from sanctions over six months. The
country’s oil exports will be held to about 1 million barrels a
day under restrictions that remain in force.  “The Iranian deal is pushing  oil prices  down,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “People are cautiously bearish
today. It didn’t solve all the problems, but it’s a first
step.”  WTI for January delivery fell 75 cents to settle at $94.09
a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Volume was 8
percent below the 100-day average at 3:24 p.m. Prices ended last
week’s trading up for the first time since the seven days ended
Oct. 4.  Brent for January settlement slid 5 cents to end the
session at $111 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe.
It tumbled as much as 2.7 percent in intraday trading. The
volume of all futures was 15 percent above the 100-day average.  Brent, the benchmark for half the world’s crude, was at a
premium of $16.91 to WTI, the widest spread in eight months
based on settlement prices. It shrank as much as $1.89 to $14.32
in intraday trading on news of the  Iran  accord.  Geneva Agreement  The agreement was reached after foreign ministers from the
U.S., Europe,  China  and  Russia  made unscheduled trips yesterday
to Geneva to push the third round of talks in six weeks to a
conclusion.  “The simple fact of the matter is that there is defusion
of tensions,” said Tom Finlon, Jupiter, Florida-based director
of Energy Analytics Group LLC. “The price of Brent is
effectively a barometer for geopolitical concerns.”  In return for Iran limiting its nuclear program, the
interim agreement provides for the release of $4.2 billion in
frozen oil assets and will let Iran continue exporting oil at
current levels, rather than forcing continued reductions by
buyers, as would be required under current law, according to a
White House statement.  Israeli officials and some U.S. lawmakers have said
sanctions on Iran should be tightened rather than eased.  “It’s nothing concrete, but it’s a good first step,” said
Tariq Zahir, a New York-based commodity fund manager at Tyche
Capital Advisors.  OPEC Producer  Iran was the sixth-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries last month, with 2.6 million
barrels a day, according to a Bloomberg survey. That’s down
565,000 barrels from June 2012, when it was ranked second.  Sanctions have cost Iran $120 billion in lost revenue since
the U.S. and European Union started imposing penalties on
energy, ports, insurance, shipping, banking and other Iran-related transactions in 2010, according to U.S. Treasury
estimates.  Brent’s earlier drop was excessive as the agreement kept
oil-export sanctions in place, said  Gene McGillian , an analyst
and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “The initial excitement subsided,” he said. “We still
have a long way to go, and the market is having some
skepticism.”  Iran’s Buyers  Under U.S. embargoes that started Feb. 6, Iran’s six
remaining buyers -- China, India, Japan,  South Korea , Turkey and
Taiwan -- can buy its oil only with their own currencies, not
dollars or euros, and must bank those payments in accounts that
Iran uses to purchase local goods from the trading partners.  “This is a six-month agreement and it’s really too early
to tell any possible outcome,” Maria van der Hoeven, executive
director of the  International Energy Agency , told reporters
today in Moscow. “What we do know is that the agreement does
not directly affect oil sanctions in a big way.”  The volume of Iranian  crude oil  available to the
international market will “remain largely unchanged over at
least the next six months,”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  predicted
in a report published today. Morgan Stanley said in a note that
any “substantial weakness” in prices following yesterday’s
announcement of a deal would be an “overreaction.”  Brent had “a knee-jerk selloff,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .
“The market is skeptical that this is as bearish as it would
seem to be.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
January was 17.5 percent, up from 16.1 percent in the previous
session, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 490,584
contracts as of 3:25 p.m. It totaled 507,901 contracts on Nov.
25, 11 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was
1.62 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  