-- Brokers Beat Banks as China Revamps Economy: Chart of the Day
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-11-25T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/brokers-beat-banks-as-china-revamps-economy-chart-of-the-day.html
Investors are betting  China ’s
brokerages will gain more than commercial banks and other
companies from a plan unveiled this month to make market forces
the “decisive factor” in the world’s second-largest economy.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the average price-to-book ratio
for the three Chinese brokerages whose shares are traded in Hong
Kong -- China Galaxy Securities Co., Citic Securities Co. and
Haitong Securities Co. -- compared with a similar measure for
the five largest banks and the Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index, which tracks 40 mainland companies. Since the Communist
Party announced a package of 60 reforms on Nov. 15, the brokers’
ratio surged to 1.76, while banks lagged behind at 1.08.  “Brokerages will benefit more from China’s reform because
the nation is pledging to develop a multilayer capital-markets
system, meaning more new listings, bond issuance and other
market activities,” said Edmond Law, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian
Holdings Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “The opening of the banking market,
interest-rate liberalization and the introduction of competition
will hurt banks’ profitability.”  Brokers’ earnings have been held back by a government
freeze on initial share sales that’s in its 14th month.
Authorities are drawing up new rules for share sales, under
which regulators will be responsible only for ensuring
companies’ disclosures meet requirements, rather than approving
the sale itself, regulator Xiao Gang said last week.  Banks may face a squeeze on margins as the government’s
pledge to ease restrictions on  interest rates  paid on deposits
leads to tougher competition.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., China
Construction Bank Corp., Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., Bank
of China Ltd. and Bank of Communications Co. have boosted
earnings since 2008 as policy makers allowed unprecedented
amounts of new credit to boost economic growth, while deposit-rate caps protected margins. Net income at ICBC, the world’s
most profitable bank, was about double that of PetroChina Co.
last year. In the U.S. and  Europe , the ratio between the biggest
banks and energy companies was the reverse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  