-- Brooks Had Discreet Coulson Meeting Before Police Hacking Probe
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-11-25T12:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/brooks-had-discreet-coulson-meeting-before-police-hacking-probe.html
Rebekah Brooks, the former chief
executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit, had a “discreet”
meeting with Andy Coulson days before he stepped down as prime
minister  David Cameron ’s director of communications, prosecutors
said.  Brooks asked her assistant in an e-mail to book “somewhere
discreet,” for the Jan. 14, 2011, breakfast meeting at London’s
Halkin Hotel, prosecution lawyer Mark Bryant-Heron told jurors
in the phone-hacking trial today. One week later, U.K. police
began a probe into wrongdoing at  News Corp .’s News of the World
tabloid leading to both Coulson and Brooks’s resignations.  Brooks and Coulson, both 45-year-old former editors of the
tabloid, are among eight people on trial for a series of
offenses related to phone hacking and bribery at News Corp.
publications. Company Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the News of
the World in 2011 in an attempt to contain a scandal over
revelations the tabloid hacked the phone of a missing teenager.  Coulson resigned from the newspaper in 2007 when the News
of the World’s royal reporter,  Clive Goodman , and a private
investigator were jailed for intercepting voice-mail messages.
He was hired to work on Cameron’s campaign team later that year.
The phone-hacking scandal resurfaced with the police probe in
2011.  Coulson and Brooks had a six-year affair that ended in
2004, prosecutors said earlier in the trial.  Other defendants include Stuart Kuttner, the 73-year-old
former managing editor of the News of the World, and Ian
Edmondson, a 44-year-old former news editor, who are both
accused of phone hacking. Goodman, 56, is charged with
conspiring to commit misconduct in a public office while he was
the royal reporter at the News of the World.  Brooks’s husband, Charlie, her former assistant  Cheryl
Carter , and the U.K. unit’s former head of security, Mark Hanna,
face charges of conspiring to pervert the course of justice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  