-- OSFI Says Canada Housing Market Still Needs Monitoring
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-11-25T16:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/canada-bank-regulator-says-housing-market-still-needs-monitoring.html
Julie Dickson,  Canada ’s top
financial industry regulator, said policy makers need to
continue to monitor closely the nation’s housing market amid
warnings that a real estate bubble may be emerging.  While “comfortable” with the amount of capital that banks
hold against their mortgage lending, Dickson said the regulator
continues to gather information from banks to gauge their
mortgage lending. The regulator won’t take a position on whether
the nation’s housing market is in a bubble, Dickson said  today 
in Toronto in a speech to the Canadian Association of Accredited
Mortgage Professionals.  “The continued strength of housing prices across many
Canadian cities in the second half of 2013 is undeniable,” said
Dickson, who heads the Ottawa-based Office of the Superintendent
of Financial Institutions. “All of us have a responsibility and
an interest in ensuring that prudent lending is occurring.”  Amid concern prices may be stretched in some areas,
Canadian policy makers have been seeking to rein in a housing
market that has rallied since the end of the recession as
households take advantage of  low interest rates  to acquire real
estate.  While measures introduced last year by Dickson and Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  slowed the market temporarily, home sales
and values rebounded as the year progressed. The average sales
price of a home sold in the country this year is up 4.6 percent,
according to data provided by the  Canadian Real Estate
Association  on Nov. 15.  Closely Monitor  OSFI decided earlier this year that no further changes to
mortgage-underwriting rules for banks were needed “at that
time,” Dickson said.  “However, we continue to closely monitor real estate
lending, including seeking additional information from financial
institutions to better understand what they are doing,” she
said. “Any future changes to our guidelines would involve
public consultations.”  OSFI is preparing similar guidelines for mortgage insurers,
which will be submitted for public feedback by the end of March,
Dickson said. She said the rules won’t “directly” affect non-federally regulated lenders.  Flaherty also said this month he has no plans to take
additional steps to cool the market.  Dickson cited reports by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development and the  International Monetary Fund 
that warned about overvaluation in Canada’s real estate market.
Dickson said it’s difficult to determine whether financial
bubbles exist and the regulator won’t “volunteer opinions.”  OSFI has noticed a shift in the marketplace to offer more
30-year mortgages than five years ago, Dickson said after her
speech. She later told reporters that 30-year mortgages are
“about half of originations now” among uninsured loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  