-- Canadian Consumer Confidence Hits Eight-Week High
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-11-25T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/canadian-consumer-confidence-hits-eight-week-high.html
Surging stock prices and a real-estate rally sent confidence levels to the highest in eight
weeks, according to a measure of  Canada ’s economic mood.  The Bloomberg Nanos Canadian Confidence Index rose to 59.4
in the week ended Nov. 22, the highest since the end of
September, from 59.0 during the previous period. The proportion
of respondents who said they felt better off financially than a
year earlier rose to the highest since January.  Ontario paced gains with citizens of the world’s 11th-largest economy feeling wealthier amid rising prices for
 equities  and  homes , even as the outlook for the economy remains
mixed. Canada’s benchmark stock  index  is up 14 percent since
touching a 2013-low on June 24, while the average sales price of
a home sold in the country this year is up 4.6 percent,
according to data provided by the  Canadian Real Estate
Association .  “The trend of improving consumer sentiment in Ontario
could have a significant positive impact on the forward look of
the Canadian economy,” said  Nik Nanos , head of Ottawa-based
Nanos Research Group.  The outlook in western provinces has deteriorated even as
it increased in Ontario. Confidence in Canada’s most-populous
province measured 61.1 last week, the highest since March 2010
and up from from 60.7 the previous week. Sentiment in Alberta,
Saskatchewan and Manitoba fell for a second week to 63.1 from
63.7, as the prairie provinces grapple with tepid commodity
prices.  Positive Impact  A Bank of Canada commodity price  index  is down about 12
percent since touching a 2013 high on July 17. Western Canada
Select Oil has declined almost 30 percent in that period.  Bloomberg Nanos’s confidence index has two sub-indexes: The
Pocketbook Index, based on survey responses to questions about
personal finances and  job security , rose to 61.2 from 59.8. The
Expectations Index, based on surveys about the outlook for the
economy and real estate prices, fell to 57.7 from 58.2,
according to the Nanos report.  The data are based on phone interviews with 1,000 people,
using a four-week rolling average of 250 respondents. The
results are accurate to within 3.1 percentage points.  Higher confidence may reflect a housing market that remains
buoyant, dissipating concern price gains in some cities were
unsustainable. Ontario home prices were up 8.1 percent in
October from a year earlier, leading all provinces, the Canadian
Real Estate Association said in a Nov. 15 report.  The share of Canadians who say they’re better off
financially over the past year rose to 22.4 percent, from 20.1
percent last week, while those who say they are worse off fell
to 23.1 percent, from 24.3 percent. The negative 0.7 percent
difference between the two is the narrowest since at least 2008.  Home Prices  Respondents who predicted an increase in home values in
their neighborhood rose to 39.9 percent, the most since March
2012, according to the Nanos polling. Confidence levels among
homeowners climbed to a two and a half-year peak. Sentiment
among those renting declined last week.  Indicators show the outlook for the economy and jobs may be
weakening. The difference between those who expect output to
strengthen and those who believe it will weaken narrowed to 2.7
percentage points last week, from 5.1 percentage points. A gauge
of job security is down from early October.  Statistics Canada  will release third quarter GDP data on
Nov. 29, with economists forecasting growth will accelerate from
1.7 percent in the second quarter.  “With economists anticipating a jump in third-quarter
Canadian annualized GDP growth to 2.5% and moderate growth in
2014-15, and considering the noteworthy jump in U.S. consumer
expectations, one could expect Canadian expectations to follow
suit,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , senior economist with Bloomberg
LP in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  