-- Canadian Diamond Explorer Sees Irish Billionaire Backing
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-11-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/canadian-diamond-explorer-sees-irish-billionaire-backing.html
Mountain Province Diamonds Inc. (MPV) , a
partner with  De Beers  in the Gahcho Kue project in northern
 Canada , plans to raise C$125 million ($119 million) in a rights
offering backed by Irish billionaire Dermot Desmond.  The Toronto-based company’s  biggest  shareholder will ensure
the offering in the first quarter is fully subscribed by buying
rights not taken up by other investors, Chief Executive Officer
Patrick Evans said in a telephone interview. Mountain Province,
which needs the money for its 49 percent share of the cost of
building the proposed diamond mine, raised C$47 million in an
offering a year ago.  “He backstopped that one and will backstop the next one as
well,” the 58-year-old Evans said, adding that Desmond has
owned Mountain Province shares for 17 years. “I don’t know that
he is as forthcoming and generous with all his businesses, but
he certainly is with ours.”  Mountain Province’s financing and plans for mine
construction at  Gahcho Kue , 400 kilometers (250 miles) south of
the Arctic Circle, come amid renewed investor interest in
diamond projects as a recovering global economy boosts demand
for engagement rings and other jewelry in the U.S. and emerging-market countries such as China and  India .  Core Group  Mountain Province has “a pretty strong core group of
shareholders, and that’s put the company on a good footing when
it comes to fund-raisings,” Edward Sterck, a London-based
analyst at Bank of  Montreal  who rates the company the equivalent
of a buy with a 12-month price target of C$6, said by phone on
Nov. 19. “Those core shareholders have stood by the company.”  Jonathan Comerford, a senior executive of Desmond’s closely
held  International Investment & Underwriting  and the non-executive chairman of Mountain Province, declined to comment on
whether Desmond plans to backstop the planned rights offering.  “We have a policy about not commenting to the media about
our investments,” Comerford said Nov. 20 in an e-mail response
to questions.  Mountain Province  rose  3 percent to C$5.14 on Nov. 22 in
Toronto, giving the company a market value of C$485.8 million.
 The shares  have increased 32 percent this year, while the
 Standard & Poor’s /TSX Materials Index declined 32 percent.
Mountain Province has four buy, no hold and no sell ratings from
analysts, with an average price target of C$6.62, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Strong Support’  The rights offering is part of the company’s plan to raise
about C$400 million to cover its part of financing for Gahcho
Kue, which means “a place where there are  big rabbits  or
hares” in the local Chipewyan language.  The company said Nov. 18 it raised C$29.1 million from
existing shareholders in a private placement of common shares.  Mountain Province also is in the midst of hiring bankers to
arrange a C$250 million debt facility that may eventually cover
the company’s remaining construction commitments until the start
of production at Gahcho Kue, forecast for as early as 2015,
Evans said.  Financing may also include an arrangement with diamond
retailers such as  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  or  Hong Kong ’s  Chow Tai Fook
Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929)  to help provide funding and commit to buy
gems from the mine, Paolo Lostritto, a Toronto-based analyst at
National Bank Financial, said in a Nov. 19 phone interview.  Rising Demand  “We’re always in discussions with many diamond producers,
but have nothing to say about any potential relationship with
Mountain Province,” Mark Aaron, a Tiffany spokesman, said Nov.
21 by phone from Toronto.  Joanne Wong, a spokeswoman for Chow Tai Fook in Hong Kong,
declined to comment on speculation about a potential off-take
agreement with Mountain Province.  Desmond, a 63-year-old investor in mapping software maker
 eSpatial Inc.  and learning software maker  Intuition  through
International Investment & Underwriting, has a net worth of at
least $2 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
including a 24 percent  stake  in Mountain Province.  Investor interest in diamond equities “has increased
markedly,” according to Sterck, who forecasts prices for rough
diamonds will rise 5 to 7 percent annually beginning next year,
“driven by good demand growth and highly constrained supply.”  In an August  study , Bain & Co. predicted global rough-diamond demand will rise at a compound annual rate of 5.1
percent to $26 billion by 2023, while global rough-diamond
supply will increase at an annual rate of 2 percent.  Aber ‘Similarities’  De Beers, which is the world’s largest diamond producer and
a unit of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , has a 3.2 percent stake in
Mountain Province, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. De
Beers also owns 51 percent of Gahcho Kue, which is in the
Northwest Territories near Kennady Lake, about 300 kilometers
northeast of the capital Yellowknife.  De Beers expects to be in a position to begin full
construction at Gahcho Kue next year, Cathie Bolstad, a
Yellowknife-based spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Gahcho Kue isn’t the only proposed diamond mine in Canada
in advanced development. Another is  Stornoway Diamond Corp. (SWY) ’s
Renard project, about 800 kilometers northeast of Montreal.
Stornoway, which is seeking to arrange financing for the C$752
million mine, aims to begin production in 2016, Orin Baranowsky,
a spokesman for the Longueuil, Quebec-based company, said by
phone on Nov. 19.  Mountain Province shares have the potential to rise more
than threefold to as high as C$17 by 2017, mimicking the
increase of the former Aber Resources Ltd., now known as
Dominion Diamond Corp., which skyrocketed as it helped develop
the Diavik mine in the  Northwest Territories  with Rio Tinto
Group in the early 2000s, Lostritto said.  “There are a lot of similarities between Mountain Province
and Aber,” he said, citing Mountain Province’s tightly held
share structure, its right to market its diamond output from
Gahcho Kue and the potential for additional nearby discoveries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  