-- Canadian Dollar Falls as Oil Prices Drop on Iran Deal
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-25T22:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/canadian-dollar-falls-as-oil-prices-drop-on-iran-nuclear-deal.html
The Canadian Dollar dropped to its
lowest level in four months as the price of oil, Canada’s
biggest export, fell after  Iran  and world powers reached an
interim deal to set limits on its nuclear program.  The currency fell against the majority of its most-traded
peers in the wake of the sixth-month agreement, which offers
Iran about $7 billion in relief from sanctions in exchange for
curbs on its nuclear program, while leaving in place banking and
financial measures that have hampered its crude exports. World
powers will continue negotiating for a more comprehensive deal
to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons in exchange for
ending sanctions.  “There’s a longer-term view being built in there that this
is going to turn open the spigot for Iranian crude oil
production which would obviously impact crude  oil prices 
negatively,” said Mark Frey, chief market strategist at
Cambridge Mercantile Group, a global foreign exchange and
payments provider, by phone from Victoria. “In the short term,
yeah I think oil is going to trade heavy, and I think it’s going
to hurt the commodity currencies and I think you’re going to see
that in the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.3 percent to
C$1.0543 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. The currency
earlier touched C$1.0583 per U.S. dollar, the lowest since July
8. One loonie buys 94.85 U.S. cents.  Implied Volatility  The cost to insure against declines in the loonie against
its U.S. counterpart touched the highest point in almost two
weeks. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate
rose to 1.3475 percent after earlier touching 1.375 percent, the
highest since Oct. 15. Risk reversals measure the premium on
options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S.
contracts that do the opposite. The 2103 average is 1.26
percent.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the  U.S.
dollar  against its Canadian peer touched its highest point in
almost 10 weeks. It reached 6.54 percent, the highest intraday
level since Sept. 18. The measure is used to set option prices
and gauge the expected pace of currency swings. The 2013 average
is 6.69 percent.  Futures on crude oil fell 0.7 percent to $94.17 per barrel
in  New York  trading.  “Canada, of course, has been overwhelmed by the drop in
oil,” said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International by phone from  London . “That factor alone is
enough to dampen the Canadian dollar, but in the medium term, if
lower oil prices come through in better growth data that will be
good for  Canada , as well as everyone else.”  Iranian Agreement  Oil exports from the Islamic republic will be held to about
1 million barrels a day under sanctions that remain in force
after Iran and six world powers reached an agreement yesterday
in Geneva, according to the White House.  The agreement offers what President  Barack Obama  called
targeted relief from sanctions, all of which can be imposed
again if Iran doesn’t stick with its end of the bargain. It is
intended as a first step to a comprehensive accord to be reached
in six months to constrain Iran’s nuclear activities so that it
can’t be used to make an atomic weapon, in exchange for a
planned lifting of nuclear-related sanctions.  “They see that as maybe opening up the door to more ample
global supplies of oil if we can see supplies from Iran
eventually lifted,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in
 Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions,  a unit of
Western Union Co. “So that’s seen as a step in the right
direction in terms of global supply, so that’s putting some
downward pressure on oil.”  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  rose, with
yields falling two-basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
2.56 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
added 15 cents to C$91.01.  The loonie has gained 1.3 percent in the last month against
nine developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has had the
biggest loss with a 2.7 percent drop while the U.S. dollar
posted the biggest gains, rising 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  