-- Cardiff Player Trade Shows Tussle for Soccer’s Unpaid Millions
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-11-25T22:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/cardiff-player-trade-shows-tussle-for-soccer-s-unpaid-millions.html
A top Chilean soccer team’s dispute
with English Premier League newcomer Cardiff City is
highlighting the difficulties Latin American clubs can have in
getting paid for developing young talent.  Lawyers for publicly traded  Universidad Catolica (CRUZADOS)  said the
Welsh club failed to pay about 500,000 euros ($675,000) in
compensation for record signing Gary Medel within the 30 days
mandated by soccer’s governing body. Cardiff, which will earn at
least 60 million pounds ($97 million) in television income from
its first season in England’s top league, could have been
reported to FIFA.  The 26-year-old midfielder joined Cardiff for 11 million
euros from Spain’s Sevilla in August, and under FIFA regulations
Santiago-based Catolica is owed a fraction of the fee in
“solidarity” payments because he trained there as a youth.
Cardiff hadn’t responded to Catolica’s request until contacted
by Bloomberg News on Nov. 22, almost three months after Catolica
first approached Cardiff, according to Eduardo Carlezzo, the
lawyer representing Catolica.  “In the last days we received a reply from Cardiff and
agreed on the amount due to Universidad Catolica,” Sao Paulo,
Brazil-based Carlezzo said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“Now we are confident that during this week a final deal with
Cardiff may be reached and the claim with FIFA definitely
avoided.”  Cardiff, which last weekend drew 2-2 with English champion
Manchester United, yesterday said it had had “very positive
conversations” with representatives of Catolica and agreed on
the figure payable to them.  Solidarity Cash  “We are awaiting their invoice and bank details so that
the monies can be paid to them,” the British club said in an e-mailed statement. “As and when this happens we can complete
things.”  Catolica said in a separate statement that “the matter
will be definitively closed” once it’s been paid.  Solidarity payments accounted for 1 percent, or 23.2
million euros, of global transfer fees in 2011, according to a
report by Brussels-based consulting firm KEA European Affairs,
citing FIFA data. The payments can make up 5 percent of all
fees, meaning there was a shortfall of up to 93 million euros in
2011, according to Bloomberg News calculations.  FIFA  regulations call for buying clubs to distribute the
solidarity payment to teams the player was registered with
between the age of 12 and 23. Medel was with Catolica between
January 1999 and July 2009. Carlezzo said Cardiff had agreed in
principle to pay about 500,000 euros. Catolica made a loss of
742 million pesos ($1.4 million) on sales of 7.45 billion pesos
in 2012.  ‘Ignore Payments’  Clubs in South America and  Africa  are starting to chase
payments they weren’t aware they were owed or which they didn’t
have the resources to pursue, according to Raffaele Poli, a
researcher at the International Center for Sports Studies in
Neuchatel, Switzerland.  “It has been a strategy of buying clubs to ignore payments
until just before the case” goes to the Court of Arbitration
for Sport in Lausanne, Switzerland, he said. “This has been
happening on a large scale” and it can take “two or three
years” for cases to go to the tribunal.  There are now at least six lawyers in countries including
Switzerland, Argentina and Ivory Coast who specialize in
approaching clubs to chase payments in return for a share of any
receipts, Poli said. Clubs are also using a recruitment database
called Scout7 to better track the career of former players.  Carlezzo said his firm, Carlezzo Advogados Associados, has
represented clubs in eight countries in about 500 cases related
to solidarity payments over the past decade.  Chile Victory  “I have been personally been involved in cases where the
training clubs were so small that they didn’t have a banking
account to receive the solidarity contribution,” the lawyer
said. “So, you can imagine how important the amount received
was for those clubs, in some cases more than their annual
revenue.”  Catolica, known for developing local talent, leads the
Chilean league this season. In the national team’s 2-0 victory
over  England  at Wembley Stadium on Nov. 15 eight of the squad
had been on the team’s books, including Mauricio Isla of
Juventus and Wigan’s Jean Beausejour, according to Carlezzo.  “Universidad Catolica is one of the biggest football clubs
in Chile and is responsible for the training and development of
several high-level players,” he said. “Therefore, the amount
due from Cardiff is very important for the club since a good
part of that is reinvested in the academy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  