-- Carlyle Is Said to Raise $13 Billion for U.S. Buyout Fund
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-11-25T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/carlyle-is-said-to-raise-13-billion-for-u-s-buyout-fund.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s
second-biggest manager of alternatives to stocks and bonds,
raised $13 billion for its sixth fund dedicated to U.S.
leveraged buyouts, according to a person with direct knowledge
of the matter.  Carlyle Partners VI, which started collecting money in late
2011, exceeded its $10 billion target and turned away $1 billion
of additional offers, said the person, who requested anonymity
because the details haven’t been announced. Included in the fund
is $1 billion from Washington-based Carlyle’s balance sheet and
employees, the person said.  Christopher Ullman, a Carlyle spokesman, declined to
comment.  Carlyle’s fund will be the largest pool dedicated to U.S.
buyouts since the financial crisis. Buyout firms globally
garnered $314 billion this year through September, 22 percent
more than in the same period last year, according to London-based research company Preqin Ltd.  KKR & Co. (KKR)  plans to finish
raising more than $8.3 billion for North American buyouts by
next month, and Silver Lake Management LLC earlier this year
collected $10.3 billion for technology LBOs.  “The U.S. is the special market,” Bill Conway, Carlyle’s
co-founder and chief investment officer, said Nov. 11 at the
firm’s investor day in New York. “It’s more homogeneous than
many other markets and bigger than any other market. It’s
frankly easier to attack.”  Blackstone Group LP raised $16 billion for global buyouts
in 2012, and Apollo Global Management LLC is seeking as much as
$17.5 billion for an eighth global fund. Both firms are based in
New York.  The Carlyle pool follows a $13.7 billion vehicle that
finished collecting money as the U.S. financial crisis was under
way in late 2008. That fund had a 13 percent net internal rate
of return and a value of 1.6 times invested capital as of Sept.
30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  