-- Central Bank Aussie Hunger Adds to RBA Dilemma: Australia Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-11-25T01:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/central-bank-aussie-hunger-adds-to-rba-dilemma-australia-credit.html
Global monetary authorities’
enduring interest in the Aussie dollar is hindering efforts by
 Australia ’s central bank to curb the currency’s strength.  Westpac Banking Corp., the country’s second-biggest bond
underwriter, said the number of central banks it interacts with
has tripled to about 60 over the past three years. Central banks
bought more than a quarter of the 2033 Australian Commonwealth
 government bonds  offered in a record sale last week, the
country’s funding arm said Nov. 20.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said Nov.
21 that the search for higher yields and the nation’s AAA status
has contributed to strength in the local dollar, adding he
wouldn’t “eschew” currency intervention.  South Africa ’s
central bank this month joined peers in saying it would add the
currency to its reserves. Australian bonds have handed U.S.
dollar-based investors a 12.6 percent loss this year, the
second-worst performance among sovereign markets tracked by
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and
Bloomberg indexes.  “There is a perception of Australia being part of the
reserve currencies or part of a core portfolio,” Michael Correa, global head of fixed income at Westpac, said in a Nov.
21 interview. “The central banks’ participation in ACGBs will
be a long-term participation. I don’t see them going away.”  Central banks are also looking at investing in other top-rated Australian debt securities, including state-government
notes, Correa said.  Open Minded  Stevens has said in recent months that the Aussie remains
high and has sought to exert pressure on it by maintaining an
easing bias, even as evidence mounts that record-low  interest
rates  are stimulating housing and consumer sentiment. He is
“open-minded” about the possibility of intervening in  currency
markets , he said during a speech last week to mark the thirtieth
anniversary of exchange controls being scrapped.  The RBA’s cash target currently stands at 2.5 percent
following 2.25 percentage points of cuts since November 2011.
Economists are divided over whether the  central bank  has
finished its cutting cycle and swaps traders are betting there
is about a 75 percent chance the benchmark will be unchanged or
higher by the middle of 2014.  Aussie Overvalued  While the Aussie dollar has dropped 12 percent this year,
the  International Monetary Fund  said last week that it was still
about 10 percent overvalued. The currency bought 91.81 U.S.
cents as of 12 p.m. in Sydney, about 20 percent above its
average since it was floated. It last week touched 91.44 cents,
the lowest since September.  Documents released in February showed the RBA estimated
that as many as 34 central banks held the Aussie dollar as part
of their reserves. China, France, Germany, India, Slovakia and
Slovenia were among those holding or possibly holding Australian
dollars, according to the documents.  Australia’s bonds are the highest-yielding securities among
major developed economies. The 10-year  government bond  yielded
4.30 percent. Similar-tenor U.S. Treasuries yielded 2.76
percent.  Record monetary stimulus in the U.S. has been a major
factor pushing up the Aussie and the RBA would be hoping the
 Federal Reserve  starts dialing back its extraordinary measures
soon so it does not have to step in, said  Gareth Berry , a
Singapore-based currency strategist at UBS AG.  Fed Tapering  “The domestic situation in Australia is a factor for the
 exchange rate , but what matters more is what the Fed does, and
how soon the Fed does it,” he said.  The prospect of such tapering has pushed up yields around
the world. In local currency terms, Australian government bonds
have handed investors a 1 percent loss so far this year, EFFAS
indexes show.  Last week’s A$5.9 billion ($5.4 billion) bank-led sale of
2033 Australian government bonds attracted more than A$8.9
billion worth of bids and 27.7 percent of the notes were
allocated to central bank buyers, according to the Australian
Office of Financial Management. Offshore investors took 59.1
percent, the AOFM said.  The proportion of official foreign-exchange reserves held
in Aussie dollars rose to 1.7 percent in the second quarter from
1.5 percent at the end of 2012, according to data from the IMF,
which began reporting on holdings in the currency late last
year, acknowledging increased demand for it among central banks.  Currency Diversification  “One of the long-term investment themes that is very
important for currency investors is central bank
diversification,” said  Jonathan Lewis , the New York-based chief
investment officer at Samson Capital Advisors LLC, which
oversees more than $7 billion including the Strong Nations
Currency Fund. “The Australian dollar is a good long-term
hold,” he said in a Nov. 13 interview.  In addition to ordinary federal bonds, there is also an
opportunity for foreign central banks to add holdings of state
government debt, inflation-linked notes and asset-backed
securities, Westpac’s Correa said.  Bonds from the country’s six states and two territories
offered an average 45 basis points more than federal securities
on Nov. 22, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.
New South Wales, the biggest issuer with top credit grades from
both Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s , has A$60.3
billion of bonds outstanding, while Victoria has a burden of
A$37.7 billion. The lower-rated states and territories have
combined borrowings of A$130.8 billion.  In his Nov. 21 speech, Stevens said that flows from
official reserve managers into Australian dollars “have surely
been important at times, though not necessarily lately. The
available data suggest that foreign holdings of Australian
government debt stopped rising in the middle of last year.”  Offshore Holdings  About 69 percent of federal securities outstanding at the
end of June were held by investors outside of Australia,
according to government data compiled by Bloomberg. The
proportion is below the peak of 76.1 percent reached in June
2012.  “Unprecedented offshore demand for Aussie bonds over the
last three or even four years, although that may have faded a
little bit in recent times, it’s still present and it is a
supporting factor for the currency,” said UBS’s Berry. “What
we’re witnessing is a multi-year diversification trend amongst
the central banking community. This is likely to be with us for
years to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  