-- Chemring Prepares Asset Disposal as Defense Market Slumps
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-11-25T08:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/chemring-prepares-asset-disposal-as-defense-sales-continue-slump.html
Chemring Group Plc (CHG) , a U.K. supplier
of defense systems for combat jets, said it will sell units to
improve its financial position after a series of profit-forecast
revisions and weak sales. The stock rose the most in 15 months.  “There are a number of business units within the group
which do not form part of its longer-term strategy,” the
Fareham, England-based company said in a statement today. It
didn’t identify the assets held for sale.  The company last month cut its operating profit forecast
for the fiscal year by 8 million pounds on “quality and
production issues” and unfavorable exchange rate development.
The revision was the first for Chief Executive Officer Mark Papworth, who took the role after a change in management
following missed targets under his predecessor, David Price.  “We continue to take the necessary steps to give Chemring
a stable platform and rebuild shareholder value,” Papworth said
in the statement. “The defense environment remains undeniably
challenging.”  Chemring shares rose the most since August 2012 on an
intraday basis, adding as much as 14 percent to 222 pence in
London trading. The share advanced 11 percent at 8:19 a.m. local
time. The stock had declined 15 percent this year to Nov. 22 and
reached its lowest level in more than seven years a day earlier.  Sales in the fourth quarter reached about 185 million
pounds ($300 million), a drop of 24 percent to compared with the
year-ago period, Chemring said. The order book shrank 8 percent
from a year earlier to 702 million pounds by Oct. 31.  Chemring said a 14 million-pound payment received after the
financial year ended last month has helped mitigate the fallout
of delivery delays to a Middle East customer.  Business in its countermeasures segment is close to minimum
sustaining level, Chemring said, with efforts underway to
improve terms in some of its pyrotechnics and munitions
contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  