-- Chilean Swap Rates Soar on Outlook From Vergara; Peso Declines
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-11-25T18:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/chilean-swap-rates-soar-on-outlook-from-vergara-peso-declines.html
Chilean  swap rates  rose the most in
five months after central bank president Rodrigo Vergara said
two consecutive reductions in borrowing costs don’t necessarily
mean policy makers will cut again in December.  The one-year swap rate climbed seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 4.27 percent, the biggest increase on a
closing basis since June 20. The two-year swap rate increased
five basis points to 4.25 percent. Yields on 10-year bonds rose
six basis points to 5.04 percent, the highest since Oct. 28. The
peso depreciated 0.2 percent to 520.93 per dollar at the close
of trading in Santiago.  The central bank’s decision to lower its benchmark rate in
October for the first time since January 2012 and reduce it
again in November to 4.5 percent doesn’t mean that policy makers
plan progressively lower rates with decreases at every meeting,
Vergara told La Tercera in an interview published yesterday. The
bank has a neutral bias, and future decisions will depend on new
data, Vergara said.  “He is trying to say they don’t want to go fast and is
putting a damper on market expectations they would cut again,”
Felipe Alarcon, an economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones
in Santiago. “It’s confusing because what he said contradicts
what they did.”  The central bank’s press office declined a request for
comment from  Bloomberg News .  Swap rates project that the central bank will hold the
target lending rate steady in December compared with an outlook
last week for a reduction of a quarter-percentage point,
according to  Banco de Chile (CHILE)  research.  The one-year inflation-linked swap rate rose seven basis
points to 1.81 percent. It earlier today was below the lower 20-day Bollinger band, indicating a possible reversal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  