-- China Money Rate Falls to One-Week Low as PBOC Boosts Confidence
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-25T02:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/china-money-rate-falls-to-one-week-low-as-pboc-boosts-confidence.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell to a one-week low after the central bank’s cash injections
last week bolstered speculation it won’t tolerate a cash crunch
as the end of the month approaches.  The People’s Bank of China asked commercial banks to submit
orders for 91-day bills, 28-day repurchase agreements, as well
as seven- and 14-day reverse repos this week, according to a
trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. It
added a net 59 billion  yuan  ($9.7 billion) in the week through
Nov. 21, the most since September, after withdrawing money in
the previous two weeks,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, dropped 24 basis points, or
0.24 percentage point, to 4.64 percent as of 10:09 a.m. in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That is the lowest since Nov.
14. It fell 56 basis points last week after touching a two-week
high of 5.45 percent on Nov 15.  “The PBOC injected a lot of money last week, showing its
willingness to stabilize the market as we approach the month-end,” said Chen Ying, a bond analyst at GF Futures Co. in
Guangzhou. “It boosted market confidence, making people believe
that there won’t be a crunch.”  The cost of one-year interest-rate  swaps , the fixed payment
needed to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, climbed
eight basis points to 4.53 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It fell six basis points last week.  Bonds Steady  China will issue negotiable certificates of deposit in the
interbank market in the near term, the Xinhua News Agency
reported, citing People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor Pan
Gongsheng as saying on Nov 22.  The yield on the 4.08 percent government bonds due August
2023 was unchanged at 4.65 percent, according to data from the
Interbank Funding Center.  China plans to allow more companies to issue debt, and let
policy banks issue notes through exchanges, according to a
statement posted to the official microblog of the China
Securities Regulatory Commission on Nov 22.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  