-- Chinalco Group Said to Exit Bidding for Glencore’s Peru Mine
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-11-25T08:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/chinalco-group-said-to-exit-bidding-for-glencore-s-bambas-mine.html
A group led by Aluminum Corp. of
China has abandoned its bid for  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) ’s Las
Bambas copper project in  Peru , two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Chinalco, as the state-owned aluminum producer is known,
decided to drop out after rejecting a proposal by the Chinese
government that it be a minority partner in a combined bid led
by China Minmetals Corp., said one of the people, who asked not
to be identified as the deliberations are private.  The Chinalco-led group had offered about $5 billion for the
Las Bambas copper mine, people familiar with the situation said
earlier this month. The group led by Minmetals, China’s biggest
state-owned metals trader, also offered about $5 billion, people
with knowledge of the matter said in October.  Glencore added 0.9 percent to 314.70 pence today at 8:50
a.m. in London trading.  Companies in China, the world’s biggest user of the metal,
are seeking to take advantage of commodity price declines to buy
assets overseas. The country’s National Development and Reform
Commission, which must approve all major overseas acquisitions,
typically restricts state-owned companies from bidding against
each other as it can drive up prices.  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said in
September as many as four Chinese suitors were expected to make
offers for the Las Bambas project.  Yuan  Li, a spokesman for
Chinalco, and Minmetals media-relations official He Jinglin said
they aren’t aware of the situation.  Copper Demand  Glencore, based in Baar,  Switzerland , is selling the mine
as part of an agreement to win Chinese regulatory approval for
its  $29 billion takeover  of Xstrata Plc this year. The commodity
trader is required to find a buyer approved by China’s Commerce
Ministry by Sept. 30 next year.  Under the Chinese government’s proposal, the Chinalco-led
consortium would take a 49 percent stake in a combined bid for
Las Bambas while the Minmetals group would own the rest,
according to one of the people. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Morgan Stanley advised the Chinalco group while Bank of America
Corp. and Citigroup Inc. are representing the Minmetals
consortium, people familiar with the process said.  The bidding group led by Chinalco includes Jinchuan Group
Ltd.,  China ’s third-largest copper producer, people with
knowledge of the matter said this month. It was shortlisted to
bid for Las Bambas, Liu Xiangmin, senior vice president of
Chinalco, said in a Nov. 4 interview.  Toromocho Project  The Minmetals group includes Citic Metal Co., a unit of
Chinese state-backed conglomerate Citic Group Corp., two people
familiar with the matter said last month. China Reform Holding
Corp., an  investment company  backed by the country’s state
assets regulator, may also take part, the people said.  Chinalco’s Hong Kong-listed resources unit, Chinalco Mining
Corp. International, operates the Toromocho copper project in
central Peru. Minmetals and  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358)  spent C$455
million ($454 million) in 2008 to buy Northern Peru Copper
Corp., the owner of the Galeno copper mine.  Chinese copper demand may increase 6.5 percent in 2014,
according to estimates from Barclays Plc. Codelco, the world’s
biggest copper producer, remains “very optimistic” on China’s
demand for the metal over the next several years, sustained by a
growing middle class, CEO  Thomas Keller  said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in  Hong Kong  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  