-- China Developers Deny CCTV Report on Unpaid Land Taxes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-25T12:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/china-developers-owe-3-8-trillion-yuan-in-land-taxes-cctv-says.html
Chinese property developers
including  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  and  Beijing Capital Development Co. (600376) 
denied a China Central Television report, which claimed they
were among 45 firms that failed to pay at least 3.8 trillion
yuan ($624 billion) in land taxes between 2005 and 2012.  Gemdale doesn’t owe land appreciation taxes and its results
have fairly reflected its financial position and business
performance, it said in a filing to the Shanghai stock exchange
today. Beijing Capital Development, BBMG Corp and Beijing
Vantone Real Estate Co. also made similar clarifications in
stock exchange filings today. All four were mentioned in the
CCTV report.  The CCTV report cited calculations by Li Jinsong, a
Beijing-based lawyer. It claimed  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) 
owes the government 8.3 billion yuan in land appreciation taxes,
and  Soho China Ltd. (410) , the biggest developer in Beijing’s central
business district, owe the most among the 45 developers that
failed to pay.  Other companies that owe the tax include  China Vanke Co. (200002) ,
the country’s biggest developer listed on mainland exchanges,
the state television said. Vanke said the report was based on a
“misunderstanding”.  The report was questioned by analysts from Credit Suisse
Group AG and CIMB-GK Securities Research who said it was either
a miscalculation or didn’t take into account the timing of the
tax payments.  “Although the news may put Chinese developers’ shares
under pressure, I don’t expect it to immediately prompt all
local governments to enforce” full payment of the tax, known as
LAT, Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit
Suisse wrote in a note to clients today. “The TV program
ignored the dynamics between developers and local governments,
which often allow developers to pay LAT over an extended period
of time to incentivize the developers to buy more land.”  Tax Misunderstanding  The report was based on a “misunderstanding,” which
wrongly assumed the company’s provision for the tax as an
immediate obligation for payment of the tax, a spokeswoman for
 China  Vanke, who asked for anonymity due to company rules, said
in an e-mailed reply. “They are different concepts. Developers
will only pay LAT after property projects are completed, while
before that we make a provision for LAT payment.”  Investment relations spokesmen at Agile and Soho China, who
asked for anonymity because of company rules, wouldn’t
immediately comment on the report. Vanessa Wang, investment
relations officer at Guangzhou R&F Properties Co., another
developer cited in the report, said by phone today that their
tax filings are all conducted according to  Hong Kong  and
mainland China regulations, and the company won’t comment on the
CCTV report.  Agile dropped 2.6 percent to HK$8.72 in Hong Kong, the
lowest since Oct. 7, at the close of trading, while China Vanke
fell 1 percent to 8.61  yuan  in Shenzhen.  Chinese developers’ land appreciation tax owed isn’t a
concern for rated issuers, Fitch Ratings analysts led by Andy
Chang wrote in a note to clients today after the CCTV report.
Such practices are “normal and consistent” in China, while the
payables arise from the timing gap between when property is
delivered and taxes are paid, according to the report.  Questionable Calculations  Li, the lawyer from Beijing Yitong law firm, previously
worked in auditing firms and started tracking payment of the tax
since 2006, he said in a phone interview today. He referred to a
document on the firm’s  website  for  the methodology  he used and
declined to give details.  Li’s calculation method is “questionable” because
property developers in China usually set aside a provision for
the tax of about 7 percent to 8 percent of gross sales, said
Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at CIMB-GK.  Based on Li’s estimates of the tax payments owed, the
developers would have had to record contracted sales of at least
54 trillion yuan in the past eight years, Hu said.  China’s
housing sales last year, the highest during the period between
2005 and 2012, totaled 5.4 trillion yuan, according to the
National Bureau of Statistics.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  