-- Chrysler IPO Said Delayed to 2014 by U.S. Tax Confusion
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t ,   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-11-25T23:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/chrysler-ipo-said-delayed-to-2014-by-u-s-tax-confusion.html
Chrysler Group LLC’s initial public
offering was delayed after the automaker wasn’t able to resolve
a routine tax issue quickly enough to complete the sale this
year, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Chrysler needs a letter from the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service to clarify tax liabilities after the IPO and didn’t want
to proceed without it, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private. An offering of union-held shares may be held in the first quarter, said Fiat, which
owns 58.5 percent of the third-largest U.S. automaker.  The Chrysler board determined after speaking with the
carmaker’s underwriters that an IPO this year was no longer
feasible, Turin, Italy-based  Fiat SpA (F)  said in a statement today.
Advisers were considering a valuation of about $10 billion for
Chrysler, near the low end of the range considered, people with
knowledge of the matter said last week. A union trust demanded
the offering to resolve a pricing dispute with Fiat.  “The IPO, as it was unfolding, wasn’t a knock-out punch
for either side,” said  Erik Gordon , a professor at the
University of Michigan’s Ross School of Business and Michigan
Law School. “Each side was overly optimistic. It left both
sides in a position where maybe it was better to keep talking.”  Sergio Marchionne, chief executive officer of both
carmakers, has been working to combine the two companies for
four years to better compete with the likes of Volkswagen AG,
Toyota Motor Corp. and General Motors Co., the other automaker
bailed out with a government-financed bankruptcy in 2009. The
U.S. plans to sell its final 31.1 million GM shares by the end
of the year.  Not Close  Fiat, which took control of the U.S. automaker as part of
its 2009 reorganization, and a United Auto Workers retiree
medical trust aren’t close to a deal that would give Fiat full
ownership, two people said. The trust and Fiat are disputing
Chrysler’s value as Marchionne seeks to buy the union fund’s
41.5 percent stake.  Even a short delay would have had Chrysler’s IPO -- slated
for Dec. 11 -- running into competition from an offering of
Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc., one of the people said. The
world’s largest hotel operator is seeking about $2.25 billion in
an IPO that is expected in December, people with knowledge of
the matter said last week.  Ample Supply  “There’s plenty of supply of auto-sector stocks with the
Treasury selling GM into the market,” Richard Hilgert, an
analyst with Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago , said in an interview.
“The only reason to pull back on an IPO is because you’re not
going to get the valuation you want.” Since the trust “is the
one driving this, if they’re not happy with the valuation,
they’re going to pull it,” he said.  The trust is working to determine whether to sell its
holding to Fiat directly or press forward with an IPO.  “No assurance can be given as to whether or when an
offering will be launched,” Fiat said in the statement. “Any
launch will be subject to market conditions and other relevant
considerations.”  Spokesmen for Fiat and Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
Chrysler declined to comment on the tax issue.  Low Valuation  The $10 billion valuation was on the low end of a range
from $9 billion to $16 billion, that would make the trust’s
stake worth $4.15 billion, less than what analysts have expected
Fiat to pay.  Chrysler had planned to begin formal meetings with
potential IPO investors the first week of December, people with
knowledge of the matter said last week.  Fiat fell 3.5 percent to 5.75 euros at the close in Milan.
The stock has jumped 52 percent this year, valuing the Italian
manufacturer at 7.19 billion euros ($9.71 billion).  Marchionne has offered the trust at least $1 billion less
than what the labor group is asking, and said the UAW “should
buy a ticket for the lottery” if it wants $5 billion or more.  In the IPO of the union trust’s shares, Marchionne finds
himself in the position of running both the company that’s being
listed and the controlling shareholder that opposes such a sale.  The trust needs to maximize the value of its stake to pay
for retirees’ medical care. It estimated in a filing last month
that those costs will be $3.1 billion more than its assets are
worth. Marchionne is eager to avoid over-paying so the carmakers
have as much money as possible to invest in new vehicles.  Chrysler plans to apply to list its shares on the  New York 
Stock Exchange with the proposed ticker symbol CGC, according to
a regulatory filing today.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Bank of America Corp. are leading
the offering, the filing shows, with Barclays Plc, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and UBS AG also serving as
underwriters. Deutsche Bank AG is advising the union, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  