-- Citigroup’s Ybarra Adds Duties as Bank Searches for Revenue
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-11-25T18:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/citigroup-s-ybarra-broadens-role-to-include-securities-services.html
Citigroup Inc. expanded the role of
Francisco “Paco” Ybarra, the bank’s head of global markets, to
include oversight of security services for investors and other
clients as the head of that unit departs.  Ybarra, 51, takes on the extra duties immediately,
according to a memo from the bank confirmed by Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a company spokeswoman. Neeraj Sahai, 56, who ran the
business, will leave New York-based Citigroup to become
president at  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ’s Standard & Poor’s
Rating Services in January, according to a separate statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  has sought to cut
costs and boost revenue to improve operating efficiency. Revenue
from transaction services, which Ybarra will now help oversee,
was little changed at $2.61 billion in the third quarter from a
year earlier even as expenses rose 3 percent, according to
Charles Peabody, a New York-based analyst at Portales Partners
LLC.  “It’s clearly a promotion,” Peabody said. “Ybarra is
gaining greater visibility within the organization.”
Opportunities for more revenue probably will come from selling
more products to existing customers or gains in market share,
Peabody said.  Transaction services  involve holding, moving and financing
assets and cash for clients around the world. This includes
security services, which provides asset administration,
financing and clearing services to customers, and treasury and
trade services, which involves managing their cash and
supporting their global business. Citigroup is ranked third by
assets among U.S. banks.  Shakeup Redux  Ybarra’s added role shows Citigroup’s strategy may be
focused on cross-selling to existing customers, Peabody said.
The change also could indicate that a management shakeup in
April meant to reduce complexity didn’t work, Peabody said.  Jamie Forese, head of the institutional business,
eliminated some management reporting lines in April to
streamline his business into six units. With today’s
realignment, the number drops to five and enhances Ybarra’s
stature, Peabody said.  Ybarra sits on the operating committee while Forese’s other
direct reports don’t. Those include Tyler Dickson, who oversees
capital-markets origination;  Raymond McGuire , head of corporate
and investment banking; Mark Mason, who runs the private bank;
and Naveed Sultan, chief of the treasury and trade solutions
business.  Sultan’s business, which was coupled with Sahai’s
securities and fund services business under the transaction-services segment in the company’s filings, won’t be affected by
this change, Romero-Apsilos said in a phone interview. Ybarra
didn’t respond to requests for an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  