-- Copper Rises as Lower Oil Prices Help Buoy Demand Outlook
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-11-25T18:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/copper-drops-amid-speculation-federal-reserve-to-slow-stimulus.html
Copper futures rose to the highest
in two weeks in  New York  on speculation that a drop in crude- oil
prices  will help underpin economic growth, brightening demand
prospects for the metal.  West Texas Intermediate crude futures for January delivery
fell as much as 1.9 percent today on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , after Iran and world powers reached an initial deal on
the nation’s nuclear program. Copper gained 1.1 percent last
week amid signs of stronger demand in China, the world’s biggest
user.  “The drop in oil prices is positive for the health of the
consumer and for economic growth overall,”  Bill O’Neill , a
partner at Logic Advisors in  Upper Saddle River , New Jersey,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s more support for the
demand side of the equation, after copper had a nice little run
last week.”  Copper futures for delivery in March added 0.4 percent to
settle at $3.23 a pound at 1:07 p.m. on the Comex in New York
after reaching $3.2685, the highest for a most-active contract
since Nov. 11.  Money managers almost  tripled  their copper net-short
positions, or bets on falling prices, to 24,067 futures and
options contracts in the week ended Nov. 19, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data showed. The figures may indicate
the market “got a little oversold” after prices declined
earlier this month, O’Neill said.  Inventories monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange fell
11 percent last week, the most since December 2011,  data  showed.
Stockpiles monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange dropped to a
nine-month low today.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months increased
0.1 percent to $7,099 a metric ton ($3.22 a pound).  Nickel, zinc, lead and aluminum fell in London. Tin rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Millie Munshi at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net  