-- Detour Gold Slumps After CEO Resigns
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-11-25T17:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/detour-gold-slumps-after-ceo-resigns.html
Detour Gold Corp. (DGC) , the operator of
the Detour Lake mine in Ontario, slumped the most in more than
six years after saying Gerald Panneton resigned as chief
executive officer as it faces “near-term challenges.”  Chief Financial Officer Paul Martin will serve as interim
CEO while Detour Gold searches for Panneton’s replacement, the
Toronto-based company said in a statement today. The shares fell
as much as 33 percent, the most intraday since January 2007.  Detour Gold, whose biggest investor is hedge fund firm
Paulson & Co., poured its first gold bar at Detour Lake in
February. Its shares have slumped 87 percent this year amid a
decline in gold prices and after the miner cut its production
forecast in May and again earlier this month. The company is
dealing with a slower-than-expected startup of ore output at the
mine, Chairman Michael Kenyon said.  “Mine ramp-ups are challenging in any environment,”
Kenyon today in a phone interview from  London . “There always
are little hiccups that people have to deal with.”  He declined to comment on the reasons for Panneton’s
departure. Panneton, who began as CEO in 2006, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  The company said Nov. 7 its operating costs will fall on
improved efficiency and raising the ore-processing rate to the
design capacity of 55,000 tons a day.  Working Capital  Still, during September, the first month of Detour Lake’s
full commercial operations, cash costs -- production costs
excluding expenses such as exploration and waste-rock removal --
were $1,214 per ounce of gold. The average price of gold traded
in London that month was $1,351 an ounce.  Gold for immediate delivery fell 0.2 percent to $1,241.45
at 5:56 p.m. in London. The metal will average $1,275 next year,
according to the median of 27 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company’s “costs for 2014 based on its preliminary
outlook make free cash-flow generation unlikely at $1,200 an
ounce,”  Anita Soni , a Toronto-based analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG, said today in a note. She downgraded Detour to hold
from buy.  Detour Gold’s level of working capital is of “significant
concern” given the current price of gold, Phil Russo, a
Toronto-based analyst at Raymond James Ltd., said today in a
phone interview. Kenyon declined to comment on the company’s
working capital.  Detour Gold had $137 million in cash and near-cash items as
of Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its free
cash flow, or cash flow from operations minus capital spending,
was a negative $44.9 million, the  data  show.  Detour Lake, the company’s only mine, will produce 240,000
to 260,000 ounces of gold this year, Detour Gold said Nov. 7,
down from a previous projection of 270,000 ounces.  Detour Gold fell 26 percent to C$3.16 at 12:55 p.m. in
Toronto, the biggest decline today on the S&P/Toronto Stock
Exchange Composite Index.  Paulson holds an 11 percent stake in the company, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  