-- Diageo May Sell Whyte & Mackay on Competition Concern
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-11-25T13:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/diageo-offers-to-sell-whyte-mackay-to-assuage-u-k-regulator.html
(Corrects currency conversion in fourth paragraph.)  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, offered to sell most of the Whyte & Mackay whisky
business it gained from the takeover of  India ’s United Spirits
Ltd. after U.K. regulators expressed competition concerns.  The offer covers Whyte & Mackay’s Invergordon, Jura and
Fettercairn distilleries in  Scotland , Diageo said today in a
statement. The Dalmore and Tamnavulin distilleries that supply
United Spirits and international markets would be retained. The
 Office of Fair Trading  said in a separate statement that it’s
considering the London-based company’s proposal.  After taking evidence from retailers, the OFT concluded
that the purchase of Whyte & Mackay may lead to a “substantial
lessening” of competition in the supply of blended whisky to
retailers, which could potentially lead to higher prices.  Diageo, the maker of Johnnie Walker whisky and Smirnoff
vodka, agreed this year to buy a controlling stake in Indian
entrepreneur Vijay Mallya’s United Spirits for about 52.4
billion rupees ($838 million) to grab more of the whisky-loving
Indian market. Consumer-goods companies are expanding in
emerging economies where booming growth is spurring an increase
in middle-class consumers with more disposable income.  As well as  Johnnie Walker , the world’s biggest whisky
brand, Diageo also sells malt whiskies including Caol Ila and
Talisker and blended brands such as Buchanans and J&B. United
Spirits, the maker of Bagpiper Indian whiskey, bought Whyte &
Mackay in 2007 for 595 million pounds ($963.5 million).  The OFT announced it was mulling whether the deal could
substantially lessen U.K. competition in July. Diageo Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Menezes said Nov. 19 that “the core
asset of what we’re buying in United Spirits we’re still very
bullish about,” referring to the Indian operations.  Diageo  shares  were little changed on the announcement,
trading up 1.2 percent at 2,000 pence at 12:23 p.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  