-- ECB's Hansson Says Inflation to Stay Low for Some Time
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-11-25T09:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/ecb-s-hansson-says-inflation-to-stay-low-for-some-time.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ardo Hansson comments on the euro-area economy,
inflation,  interest rates , non-standard measures, minutes and
the Estonian economy.  Hansson, who also heads Estonia’s Eesti Pank, made the
remarks in an interview in Tallinn on Nov 22.  On inflation:  “If you look at all the longer-term measures of
inflationary expectations, you don’t see any evidence of those
being disanchored in any way. They have come in very close to
exactly where we think they should be, close to but below 2
percent. So that isn’t such a factor.”  “We’ll soon understand more about the exact details of the
low inflation number for October, but it seems to be pretty
broad-based in the sense that part of it was food prices, part
of it energy prices, services prices and so on. The  core
inflation  was also somewhat weaker than had been expected. Of
course, we don’t really react to a single number because these
numbers can be volatile and because the target is more in the
medium term. So it’s not this number per se but more how, in
light of that number, we see the medium-term outlook. There I
think it looks like inflation will be towards the lower end for
some time. We don’t see any kind of rapid rise but at the same
time the idea of any kind of outright deflationary risk doesn’t
seem very likely either.”  “I think inflation is pretty broad-based, so that makes me
feel a bit more that the impact of that change on trajectory
going forward is one where you probably see these annual rates
rather on the lower side than on the higher side. We’ll get more
refined estimates in two weeks. There isn’t anything very
visible in the pipeline that would suggest a rapid reversal in
the sense of quickly moving back towards higher levels of
inflation.”  On the euro-area economy:  “The fact that the third quarter was slower than the
second quarter wasn’t so unexpected and the data were pretty
much in line with the expectations. There had always been this
idea that the first quarter was a bit weaker than the second
quarter, so the second quarter reflected a bit of a bounce from
an unexpectedly weak first quarter due to winter events and all
kinds of other one-off factors. So I don’t think it’s
necessarily a problem that the third quarter is a bit slower.
Generally we expect this trend to continue, that growth will be
weak for quite some time. I don’t think anybody would be
expecting a robust or a sudden sharp increase, so this type of
sluggish but slightly positive growth is in line with
expectations.”  “Looking forward, we see ongoing deleveraging and many
countries where the pre-crisis growth levels were a bit too
high, so we certainly don’t expect to return to pre-crisis
levels. All these factors suggest that a new equilibrium growth
rate may be a bit lower than we’re used to in the past.”  “As far as the specifics of 2015, we should just wait for
the new projections and see. The baseline scenario based on the
September estimates suggests that the global economy on balance
would be a bit stronger and the recovery would also be supported
by the accommodative monetary policy stance. The fiscal stance
is adjusting a bit more slowly now than it did in the recent
past. All those factors might support demand a bit but on the
other hand I think downside risks are still out there.”  On ECB options:  “The options on rate cuts are still not fully exhausted
and there are all kinds of other measures that are still on the
table. Of course, every time you use one option you have one
less to use. But I don’t see us, by any means, running out of
our toolkit of things we can draw on. It depends very much on
the particular trends and certain sources and certain
instruments.”  On narrowing the rate corridor:  “It’s one of the options on the table. A narrower corridor
creates a bit of an anchor for the EONIA rate, because it can
simply move in that corridor and that makes it easier to
control. But the narrower corridor could also create less
prospect for banks using  interbank market  and so it creates more
of an incentive for them to manage their liquidity through their
central bank rather than among themselves. The smaller the gap,
the more attractive it is to do your liquidity management
through the central bank. That’s one of the arguments speaking
against a main rate cut without a deposit rate cut. It has been
encouraging that the reliance on eurosystem financing has come
down, which means that banks are able to act in the interbank
market, which would be a healthy trend to continue.”  On a negative deposit rate:  “We are technically ready to do it, it is part of the
toolkit. It has positive effects in terms of broadening the room
for maneuver. On the other hand, it may certainly compress
banks’ net interest margins.”  “We’ve had a tradition of using those 25 basis points so
I’d have to look at some analysis of different options.
Theoretically, a smaller cut wouldn’t be off the table.
Certainly, the bigger the move, the more impact you have. I
think what has been on the table has always been the possibility
to move into that territory and the technical readiness.”  On long-term refinancing operations:  “Long-term refinancing operations are certainly an
instrument that’s been used, so it’s operationally rather
straightforward, people know what it’s about and under the
circumstances when it was used it had a demonstrably positive
impact. You’d want to, for future use, when looking at the
concrete case, always think about the effectiveness, whether it
would actually deliver the results you want. Right now, you
actually see a lot of fairly steady repayment of these existing
operations. So you’d certainly want to know if you go down that
path that it would actually have some take-up from those for
whom it actually matters and not just put it out there and hope.
You have to really think this through.”  On excess liquidity:  “The key is that there is a lot of heterogeneity. What
makes it more complicated to interpret is that some of the
decrease in excess liquidity might be rather healthy because the
banks find that they can manage themselves through the interbank
market, they feel less of a need to hold precautionary balances,
they feel more comfortable about the liquidity situation. That
could be a sign of a normalization so to the extent that what’s
going on, you’d feel quite positive about it. On the other hand,
maybe you’d feel if you lower the buffers then it might increase
a bit the pressure on the interbank rates. What I don’t see is a
very mechanistic relationship between the excess liquidity
number and the EONIA interest rate.”  On EONIA:  “The EONIA rate moving closer to the main refinancing rate
doesn’t necessarily need to be a reason for concern, it might
even be something that you actually welcome. You have to start
looking behind it. Some of it, to the extent that it’s healthy
as a sign of normalizing conditions, maybe isn’t something that
you should resist. But other factors could be less healthy, so
you have to look at the greater data and understand what’s
driving it. If it’s the strength of European banks that’s
driving it, it’s probably a good thing. If it’s sudden worries
about the liquidity situation of the banks, then it’s reason for
concern.”  On forward guidance:  “It certainly has reduced the levels of volatility and
probably also created more confidence about the medium term. If
there’s a range of uncertainty about what a central bank can do,
I think forward guidance can kind of remove some of the fears of
extensive changes. In general, I’m quite happy with that form of
forward guidance of the ECB. Some people have said, maybe you
want to be more specific, more quantitative, more binding. But I
actually think, particularly with the mandate being what it is,
with one clear target, to have a more qualitative indication is
much more appropriate. If you attempt to overburden the
communication with more specificity and then there’s any kind of
scenario where it appears in contradiction with you mandate,
then it’s a problem. I’m quite comfortable with the formulation
and the level of detail it provides.”  On lending to small and medium-sized companies:  “Most of the effort now, the focus is now on the European
Commission and the  European Investment Bank  to start developing
the possible instruments. Then you can consider if the ECB has a
role. I personally don’t think that we necessarily should be too
focused on the ECB having a major role in this area. The primary
responsibility lies elsewhere. To the extent there are good
securities that emerge out of a process that could be used as
collateral that are quite standardized, quite liquid, that’s
something that could obviously be considered. But even if you
add up all the likely volume of those credits and compare it to
overall levels of available collateral it’s not going to amount
to a large number.”  On minutes:  “This issue is going to come up quite soon, we will have a
structured discussion on this. We will look at these proposals
from the Executive Board. Any option will have pros and cons.
We’ll look at the experience of some of the other central banks
and then come up with a view.”  “The trade-off is that there is demand for more
transparency in all countries, a quite legitimate trend. On the
other hand, what we need to preserve is the quality of dialog
and debate leading up to decisions. If it somehow leads to the
fact that the debate gets less open, less interactive, then it
could have a negative impact.”  “Publishing minutes in a form that summarizes the debate
is a step that I can imagine more easily than if everything gets
individualized. Part of it is also, as a collective body we are
collectively responsible for this decision. It may create
pressure for people to have a more national view and then it
would be very negative.”  On  Estonia :  “There is a bit of a puzzle in the sense that we have a
combination of fairly subdued growth numbers but yet a very
robust labor market. In the real economy, there’s one sector
that’s doing quite poorly, which is transport, transit trade. If
you strip out that particular sector, the rest of the economy
seems to be growing maybe a percentage point faster. The sectors
that seem to be doing quite well now are wholesale and retail
trade, so one of the possible arguments is that more labor-intensive sectors are doing well and capital-intensive sectors
are doing less well and that’s how you can explain this.”  “Unemployment is down quite a bit, we believe it’s even
below the natural level at about 8 percent, and some of it is
structural as well, you have some regions and sectors with
excess labor demand that are creating upward wage pressure. Some
of that wage pressure is now spilling over into inflation as
well. You don’t see it in headline rates, as there have been a
lot of one-off factors at play. If you strip those out, you see
a clear correlation between services price inflation and wage
growth.”  “The economy seems quite balanced still, it’s more that we
see the trends that are starting now in terms of wage growth,
property prices starting to pick up again. If it were continue
now for several quarters, several years, you could get into the
situation where some of the imbalances start reappearing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Tallinn at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  