-- EDF Would Study Grid Sale If Needed for Industrial Reason
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-11-25T06:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/edf-would-study-grid-sale-if-needed-for-industrial-reason.html
Electricite de France SA ,  Europe ’s
biggest power generator and the owner of French grid operator
RTE, said it would consider reducing its stake if required for
an “industrial project.”  “We can’t include the grid in our industrial strategy so
if RTE has a development project that would necessitate an
evolution we would listen and study it,” said Thomas Piquemal,
EDF’s head of finance. Otherwise the utility remains “very
happy as a financial shareholder.”  Talk of an RTE sale has surfaced regularly in the past as
EDF sought to lower debt and meet the rising cost of maintaining
equipment and improving safety at its aging nuclear reactors.
The CGT labor union, the biggest in  France ’s energy industry,
has rejected such an idea, vowing to oppose any move to sell all
or part of the grid operator.  “The only reason we would consider not owning 100 percent
of RTE is for an industrial project,” Piquemal said in an
interview last week. “This would have to be explained by RTE.”  State-controlled EDF holds all of RTE, short for  Reseau de
Transport d’Electricite , which operates the biggest power
network in Europe. Fifty percent of the stake is held by an EDF
fund dedicated to nuclear dismantling.  By law, RTE shareholders have to be either EDF, the state,
or public-sector entities. Environment Minister Philippe Martin
said in September that the government wants to keep an
“integrated” EDF.  RTE declined to comment on Piquemal’s remarks last week.  RTE Board  To comply with European Commission competition rules, RTE
operates under a different management structure from EDF and
keeps its debt separate. EDF has four seats on RTE’s 12-member
supervisory board, one of which is filled by Piquemal.  RTE owns and operates more than 100,000 kilometers (62,000
miles) of high-voltage  power lines  in France and 46 cross-border
links with other European countries. Its 2012 net income was 407
million euros ($550 million) and investment this year is about
1.4 billion euros.  EDF said earlier this month it’s reviewing industrial
strategy and spending plans as it raised a target for cost cuts.
It faces an estimated 55 billion euros of expenses to improve
safety and extend the lives of French plants through 2025.  The utility is also expanding nuclear operations abroad.
The Paris-based company reached an agreement last month to
develop two U.K. reactors for about 16 billion pounds ($26
billion) after the British government offered a power price
that’s almost double current market rates, as well as loan
guarantees to assist with the cost of construction.  “If you compare with the market price now, you can
consider that it looks too high,” Piquemal said. “Looking over
the long term we believe that it’s a fair deal for the U.K.
customer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  