-- Medvedev Meets Russia Metals Chiefs as Industry Seeks Aid
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-11-25T10:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/medvedev-meets-russia-metals-chiefs-as-industry-seeks-aid.html
Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  is
meeting executives of  Russia ’s largest metal and mining
companies today to discuss steps to support the industry amid
slumping commodities and stock prices.  Participants scheduled to attend include OAO Mechel owner
 Igor Zyuzin ,  Evraz Plc (EVR) ’s Chairman Alexander Abramov, United Co.
Rusal chief  Oleg Deripaska , OAO TMK owner Dmitry Pumpyansky and
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel owner  Vladimir Potanin , according to the
meeting agenda, seen by Bloomberg.  Shares in Mechel, among the most indebted mining companies
in Russia, fell 41 percent in Moscow on Nov. 13 on speculation
the company may default on the $9.55 billion it owes. The price
for hot-rolled coil steel exported from the former  Soviet Union 
fell in July to the lowest level since December 2009, while
Russia’s coking coal prices have dropped 20 percent this year.  “Debt relief measures can be useful for Mechel and Rusal
in their talks with lenders,”  George Buzhenitsa , a Moscow-based
Deutsche Bank AG analyst, said by phone. Rusal had about $10
billion in net debt by the end of September and is having talks
with lenders over debt refinancing.  The government is ready to discuss some compensation to the
companies for interest-rate costs they incur in funding
development projects, the document shows. It also may consider
granting state guarantees for loans and ease rules on the
central bank accepting the companies’ bonds as collateral.  Nothing Drastic  The government is looking into steps that will stimulate
the industry, helping to shut excess production and measures to
limit imports of some products, it shows.  “We do not think there will necessarily be any immediate
drastic steps from the government, but having said that the
attention is clearly positive and could eventually lead to
longer-term support,” Igor Lebedinets, a VTB Capital analyst,
said in a report today.  Metal and mining companies may seek support in limiting
imports and boosting local metal demand, Kirill Chuyko, BCS
Financial Group’s head of equity research, said by phone today.  Aluminum dropped as low as $1,765 a metric ton in June, the
weakest level in four years, prompting Rusal to cut production.
The price of nickel touched the lowest in four years in July,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Spokesmen for  Mechel (MTLR) , Evraz, Rusal, TMK, and Norilsk
declined to comment. Natalya Timakova, a spokeswoman for
Medvedev, declined to comment. Vedomosti newspaper reported on
the talks earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  