-- Legal Tabs, Shipping Probe, Cooperative Probe: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-11-25T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/legal-tabs-shipping-probe-cooperative-probe-compliance.html
Europe’s biggest banks, led by
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Deutsche Bank AG, have racked up
more than $77 billion in legal costs since the financial crisis,
five times their combined profit last year.  Since September 2008, the 18 banks with the highest
litigation expenses paid at least $24.9 billion settling
lawsuits and probes, set aside $31.5 billion to compensate U.K.
clients improperly sold products including mortgage insurance
and earmarked $20.9 billion for further penalties, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The sum equates to spending $42 million a
day. The total may be higher as many settlements aren’t public.  The penalties come as regulators require firms to set aside
more funds to strengthen finances and as executives look for
ways to boost shareholder returns even amid lower revenue.  As the six biggest U.S. banks have allotted more than $100
billion to legal expenses, payouts in Europe are accelerating.  The payments have hurt banks’ profit and slowed efforts to
build capital. Future penalties may prompt firms to delay
boosting dividends or buying back stock, analysts at KBW, a unit
of  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , said in a report to clients this
month.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  German Bank-Financed Rescue Fund to Reach 1.8 Billion Euros  A rescue fund financed by German banks will hold 1.8
billion euros by the end of the year, the  Federal Agency for
Financial Market Stabilization  said Nov. 22 in e-mailed
statement.  German banks are able to draw on additional financial help
when, in a crisis, cash in the fund, known as the Bank
Restructuring Fund, is inadequate, the FMSA said in the
statement.  Banks paid less into the fund in 2013 due to “weaker”
results in 2012, the group said.  The fund was set up by law in 2011 as a successor to the
government-financed Soffin rescue fund.  Compliance Action  Container Liner Shipping Companies Probed by EU on Price Signals  European Union regulators opened an antitrust investigation
into container liner shipping companies, saying they signaled
pricing changes to each other with press and website statements,
the EU said in an e-mailed statement Nov. 22.  The announcements are made several times a year and contain
the amount of increase and the date of implementation, which are
generally similar for all announcing companies and could allow
them to raise prices on transport services to and from Europe,
the regulators said in the statement.  The European Commission didn’t identify the companies in
the probe in its Nov. 22 statement.  Osborne Orders Probe Into Co-Op Bank After Flowers Scandal  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne ordered an
independent inquiry into events at Co-operative Bank Plc, a unit
of Co-Operative Group Ltd., after the lender’s parent ceded
control and former Chairman Paul Flowers was arrested.  The investigation has been agreed with the Prudential
Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority, the
Treasury in London said in an e-mailed statement Nov. 22. It
will be led by an independent person agreed to by the
regulators. The FCA and PRA are also considering whether to
carry out formal enforcement investigations, the Treasury said.  Co-operative Group’s chairman, Len Wardle, resigned last
week after leading the board that appointed Flowers.  Flowers, 63, was arrested Nov. 21 as part of a drug
investigation, said a person with knowledge of the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the investigation was
confidential.  Interviews/Speeches  Schaeuble Says Single Bank Resolution Needs Legal Basis  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble spoke at the
 European Banking Congress  in  Frankfurt  Nov. 22 about monetary
policy and banking supervision.  For the video, click here.  Fitschen Says European Banks Losing Trade Finance Role  Juergen Fitschen, co-chief executive officer of Deutsche
Bank AG, discussed the role of European banks in promoting
global trade.  He spoke on a panel discussion at the  European Banking
Congress in Frankfurt  moderated by Melinda Crane.  For the video, click here.  Separately, Fitschen spoke at the Frankfurt Congress about
how Europe’s banks should approach the European Central Bank’s
stress tests.  For the video, click here.  JPMorgan Deal Lacks Details From Justice, Kelleher Says  Dennis Kelleher, chief executive officer of Better Markets
Inc., talked about the $13 billion settlement between  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the U.S. Justice Department ending probes into
the bank’s sale of mortgage securities.  Kelleher, who spoke with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop,” also talked about Federal Reserve
chairman nominee Janet Yellen’s stance on bank regulation.  For the video, click here.  George Says More Transparency Needed for Market Discipline  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City President Esther George
said supervision of individual banks should be strengthened to
increase transparency in financial markets and safeguard the
broader financial system.  Supervision can be made more systematic, predictable and
transparent by making reports from complex firms more easily
understood so that shareholders and creditors can “provide the
appropriate level of market discipline,” George said Nov. 22 in
a speech in Paris. Without transparency, investors must rely on
assurances from regulators, she said.  News  Bank of America Intern Died of Natural Causes, Coroner Says  Bank of America Corp.  intern Moritz Erhardt died of natural
causes, a London coroner said after hearing from Erhardt’s
family and co-workers about working conditions at the lender.  Coroner Mary Hassell said Nov. 22 that the 21-year-old died
on Aug. 15 of an epileptic seizure, while noting that “it’s not
so natural” for a young man to die like this.  Hassell said at the inquest Nov. 22 that one of the
triggers for epilepsy is exhaustion and it may be that fatigue
was a trigger for the seizure that killed him, though it’s
“only a possibility.”  Erhardt didn’t tell the bank about his epilepsy. He
answered “no” to questions about whether he suffered from
seizures on a medical form, according to Hassell, who read the
document out loud in court.  Erhardt’s plight prompted the bank to set up a panel of
senior managers to investigate his death.  U.K. newspapers, including the Guardian, reported he worked
all night on several occasions in the weeks before he collapsed,
citing co-workers it didn’t identify.  A spokeswoman for Bank of America in  London  declined to
comment on the autopsy Nov. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 