-- Egypt’s Dollar Debt Costs Plunge as Gulf Money Trumps Low Demand
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-11-25T16:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/egypt-s-dollar-debt-costs-plunge-as-gulf-money-trumps-low-demand.html
Egypt  paid the lowest yield on
record to raise $1.8 billion in an auction of dollar-denominated
treasury bills as additional aid pledges from the Persian Gulf
overshadowed low demand for the securities.  The average yield on the notes dropped 114 basis points, or
1.14 percentage point, from the last similar sale in June to
2.74 percent, according to an e-mail from the central bank
today. That’s  the lowest  since the government started auctioning
the notes two years ago. Bids were 1.3 times the $1.7 billion of
securities offered, the lowest in 13 auctions over that period,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Egypt’s borrowing costs have tumbled in the aftermath of
the military’s overthrow of President Mohamed Mursi in July as
Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and  Kuwait  pledged about
$15 billion in aid to the North African country. Kuwait plans to
buy $2 billion of Egyptian bonds as part of a second aid
package, the Cairo-based Al Borsa newspaper reported today,
citing an unidentified Egyptian central bank official.  “Dollar yields are catching up with the rest of the market
and money from the Gulf is improving sentiment for the economy,
overriding low demand for the debt,” Nour Mohei-el-Din,
assistant general manager for treasury at BNP Paribas Egypt SAE,
said by phone. “This also opens a window for the government to
borrow more foreign currency locally as it seeks to boost
growth.”  Boosting Reserves  Standard & Poors raised Egypt’s rating to B- this month
after six downgrades since the start of the uprising that ousted
president  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011. The nation began selling
foreign-currency debt locally that year to boost foreign
reserves by tapping growing bank deposits. Egypt has $1.72
billion of debt due tomorrow, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The government also  raised  4.5 billion Egyptian pounds
($654 million) of treasury bonds today, paying 11.65 percent on
the 18-month notes, 13.1 percent on five-year bonds and 14.46
percent on 10-year securities, according to the Finance
Ministry’s website.  The yield on the government’s benchmark $1 billion of 5.75
percent Eurobonds due in April 2020 fell five basis points to
7.3 percent as of 5:15 p.m. in Cairo, set for the lowest close
in almost three weeks. The pound was little changed at 6.8875 a
dollar after a regular central bank currency sale in which banks
received 19 percent of their demand, on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  