-- Emerging Stocks Climb on Iran Deal While Gazprom Tumbles
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-11-25T22:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/emerging-stocks-rise-for-second-day-on-iran-accord-as-baht-drops.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
a second day after Iran agreed to limit its nuclear program,
bolstering appetite for riskier assets. OAO Gazprom paced
declines in energy producers as crude oil slumped.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.1 percent to
1,010.63. Hindustan Petroleum Corp. and Bharat Petroleum Corp.
drove the S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  to the biggest gain in Asia as  India 
imports 80 percent of its oil. The Borsa Istanbul National 100
Index jumped to the highest in three weeks as  banks  increased.
Russia’s Micex Index reversed earlier gains, led by Gazprom.  Seven out of  10 groups  in the gauge for developing-nation
stocks gained as technology companies jumped. Energy and raw
material shares followed commodities lower. Iran agreed
yesterday to curtail its nuclear activities and won an easing of
certain sanctions on oil, auto parts, gold and precious metals
for six months. The nation’s oil exports will be held to about 1
million barrels a day under restrictions that remain in force.  “A lot of that might be the reaction with  Iran  more than
anything else,” James Paulsen, the Minneapolis-based chief
investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, said by
phone. He helps oversee more than $340 billion in assets. “Just
the idea of something that restores peace to the region or at
least brings less volatility is certainly good for a lot of the
emerging world.”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund fell 1.3 percent to $41.51. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
advanced 4.4 percent to 24.38.  Ibovespa Slumps  Brazil ’s Ibovespa fell for the third time in four sessions
as  Gerdau SA (GGBR4)  dropped 3.1 percent after Credit Suisse Group AG
cut its recommendation on the steelmaker. LLX Logistica SA, the
logistics unit founded by  Eike Batista , tumbled.  The Micex Index declined as Gazprom retreated 1.1 percent
after being downgraded at VTB Capital. State-run power company
OAO Inter RAO UES and LSR Group slumped before their exclusion
from MSCI Inc.’s Russia index takes effect. United Co. Rusal,
the world’s largest aluminum producer, jumped 8.1 percent as
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev met executives to discuss support
for an industry suffering a drop in demand and prices.  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index climbed 1.2 percent,
led by Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS.  India’s S&P BSE Sensex jumped percent as Hindustan
Petroleum added 5.7 percent. Bharat Petroleum Corp. surged the
most since Sept. 27. The rupee rallied on optimism a drop in oil
costs will help shrink the South Asian nation’s current-account
deficit.  China Petroleum  China’s stocks  slid for a third day, led by energy
producers, after a explosion at a  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (600028)  pipeline killed 55 people. China Petroleum, also known as
Sinopec, slumped the most in five months. PetroChina Co. and
China Shenhua Energy Co. dropped at least 1.3 percent.  Thailand ’s baht fell to a 10-week low and the stock index
had its worst close in two months after foreign funds pulled
money from local assets amid concern political tension will
intensify and harm growth.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 330 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  