-- Emirates Pits Rolls Against GE to Improve Airbus A380 Superjumbo
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-11-25T13:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/emirates-pits-rolls-against-ge-to-improve-airbus-a380-superjumbo.html
Emirates is setting up a contest
between  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  and a partnership of  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and Pratt & Whitney for the contract to power 50
Airbus SAS A380s to eke better performance out of the engines.  The carrier announced the purchase of the additional
superjumbos at last week’s Dubai Air Show, without specifying
its choice of engines. The 90 double-decker aircraft that
Emirates had previously ordered use the GP7200 model by the
Engine Alliance of GE and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt.  “By opening up the campaign, it invites the manufacturers
to be a little more focused on those particular engines even
though they’re not selling that many of them,” Emirates
President Tim Clark said in an interview today in  London .  Clark, the biggest buyer of superjumbos, has been urging
Airbus and suppliers to continue to improve the jet that first
flew in 2005. Since the program began, engine makers have
introduced a number of enhancements on other turbines that Clark
said could be applied to the A380.  “We’re not going after cheaper engines, we’re after
technological crossover that manifests itself in lower weight
and lower fuel consumption,” Clark said at The Future of Air
Transport conference in London. “We need to see them stepping
up with technological changes.”  The Engine Alliance now has a 1 percent fuel-burn advantage
over the Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engine, Clark said. The London-based engine maker “might improve the fuel consumption” after
already boosting reliability, he said.  The Engine Alliance, which is exploring options for an
upgrade to its GP7200, will introduce smaller part enhancements
for new and existing turbines from next year to improve
reliability and long-term performance, Dean Athans, the head of
the consortium said last week. These should address the cause of
an in-flight GP7200 shutdown Emirates experienced this year.  Rolls-Royce said previously it is working on an package of
upgrades for its Trent 900 to improve the system’s performance.
Clark acknowledges Rolls-Royce may not have a lot of time to
react, with the first of the 50 additional A380s due in 2016.
Opting for the Trent-engine would also force Emirates to operate
a split fleet, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  