-- Enbridge Eyes New Quebec Wind-Power Investments, CEO Monaco Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-11-25T21:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/enbridge-eyes-new-quebec-wind-power-investments-ceo-monaco-says.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , Canada’s largest
pipeline operator, is considering additional wind-farm projects
in Quebec to take advantage of the province’s strategy to expand
renewable-power output, Chief Executive Officer Al Monaco said.  Enbridge has invested about C$600 million ($569 million) in
Quebec wind in the last few years, “and we plan for more,”
Monaco told the Canadian Club of  Montreal  in a speech today. The
Calgary-based company already owns stakes in three wind projects
in the province, with a combined capacity of 530 megawatts,
according to its  website .  Enbridge is expanding its renewable generation business --
which includes wind, solar and geothermal power -- to offset
 carbon emissions  from its bigger fossil-fuel related businesses.
Including its  Quebec  operations, the company owns stakes in 12
wind farms with a combined capacity of 1,549 megawatts.  “We have good partners and we have some good
opportunities, so we are hoping we can make more investments in
Quebec,” Monaco told reporters after his speech. “It’s one of
our key areas.”  He declined to identify projects.  Quebec’s government  said  earlier this month its state-owned
utility, Hydro-Quebec, is seeking to buy 450 additional
megawatts of  wind energy . The province is targeting 4,000
megawatts of installed wind power capacity by 2015, according to
the  Canadian Wind Energy Association , an industry group.  Enbridge agreed in July to buy 50 percent of an 80-megawatt
wind farm in Quebec from  Electricite de France SA. (EDF)  The Saint-Robert-Bellarmin Wind Project, about 300 kilometers (186 miles)
east of Montreal, delivers electricity to Hydro-Quebec under a
20-year agreement.  “We really think that Quebec is a very strong province to
be investing in from a wind perspective,” Monaco said. “That’s
because they have objectives to increase and diversify their
sources of supply. The wind resource in Quebec is tremendous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  