-- Equity Residential Said to Plan Unit Sale to Deutsche Bank
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-11-25T17:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/equity-residential-said-in-talks-to-sell-unit-to-deutsche-bank.html
Equity Residential and  AvalonBay
Communities Inc. (AVB) , the largest publicly traded U.S. apartment
owners, are in talks to sell a German unit to a  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
fund, three people with knowledge of the matter said. The unit
is valued at about 1.3 billion euros ($1.8 billion).  Deutsche Bank Asset & Wealth Management has created a fund
for German pension funds and insurers to purchase DeWAG
Management GmbH, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the talks are private. An agreement will probably be
reached this year, they said.  A spokesman for Equity Residential, founded by billionaire
Sam Zell, wasn’t available to comment. Representatives of
AvalonBay, DeWAG and Deutsche Bank declined to comment.  The U.S. companies acquired Stuttgart, Germany-based DeWAG
as part of their purchase of Archstone Inc. from Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. a year ago. DeWAG owns 14,500 homes in German
cities including Cologne, Munich and  Frankfurt , according to its
 website .  Equity Residential (EQR)  was down 0.4 percent to $50.62 at 12:15
p.m. in New York, while AvalonBay  dropped  1 percent to $116.36.
Deutsche Bank  gained  1.6 percent to 34.70 euros in Frankfurt.  Archstone Deal  Equity Residential, based in  Chicago , and AvalonBay of
Arlington,  Virginia , in November 2012 said they would sell some
assets after the $6.5 billion Archstone acquisition. In January,
Equity Residential agreed to sell 27 U.S. properties to  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Greystar Real Estate Partners LLC for as
much as $1.5 billion.  While DeWAG mostly manages homes, it’s also a developer.
The company is held in a fund that’s 16 percent owned by
Archstone, with investors such as insurers and pension funds
holding the rest, according to DeWAG’s website.  U.S. firms including Blackstone Group LP and Goldman Sachs
are selling German homes to take advantage as increasing demand
boosts values. Archstone bought DeWAG for about $649 million in
2006 when the German company owned 6,100 apartments.  German home prices rose 4.9 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier as more investors and individuals bought
apartments to take advantage of low interest rates, according to
data compiled by the VDP Association of German Pfandbrief Banks.
That’s the most in 10 years.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is managing the sale of DeWAG, which has a
value of about 1.3 billion euros, four people with knowledge of
the matter said in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  