-- Essar Seeks to Divest Lower-Margin Assets to Focus on Gas
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-11-25T16:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/essar-seeks-to-divest-lower-margin-assets-to-focus-on-indian-gas.html
Essar Energy Plc (ESSR) , an Indian oil and
gas company, plans to divest more of its exploration and
production operations to focus on gas developments in the Asian
country, where demand is rising.  The company, based in Mumbai, will exit “lower margin non-core assets,” it said today in a statement, without naming
them. Essar’s net loss grew to $391.6 million in the six months
ended September from $200.8 million, with depreciation in the
rupee contributing to $483 million of exchange losses.  Essar sees margins from processing crude oil into fuels at
its refineries staying under pressure in the near-term.  Shares dropped 13 percent to close at 87.35 pence in London
trading, the biggest slump since February last year.  Sales rose 5 percent to $13.4 billion. Underlying net debt
declined to $6.56 billion in the period from $6.74 billion.  Essar, which has five exploration blocks outside of  India ,
said last month it would sell its 50 percent in Kenya’s only oil
refinery to the state. In July, it agreed to sell half of a
Vietnam offshore gas exploration block to  Eni SpA. (ENI)  It has stakes
in blocks including in  Nigeria , Madagascar and  Indonesia . Power
demand will rise about 6 percent a year in India, Essar said.  The company will “farm out” or sell blocks in India and
overseas, Chief Executive Officer Sushil Maroo said on a call.  Essar sees a “robust” market in India in the longer term,
with diesel demand growing about 7 percent a year and gasoline
consumption rising by as much as 5 percent, the company said.
The government proposed doubling gas prices to $8.40 per million
British thermal units from April to spur production, Essar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  