-- Estonia Faces Risks From Wages to Property Costs, Hansson Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-11-25T09:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/estonia-faces-risks-from-wages-to-property-costs-hansson-says.html
Estonia  needs to stem accelerating
wage growth and housing prices to protect the economy of the
newest euro-area member, central bank Governor Ardo Hansson
said.  Wage pressure, driven by excess labor demand in some
regions and industries, is starting to spill over into inflation
even as one-time effects such as free public transport in the
capital, Tallinn, balance them out, Hansson said in an interview
Nov. 22. Unemployment is “below the natural level,” having
declined to 8 percent in the third quarter from 19.8 percent in
2010, he said.  Estonia’s $22 billion economy, part of the euro area since
2011,  hasn’t returned  to output levels before a 20 percent
contraction in the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008
demise. The slump was worsened by the collapse of a property
boom after housing prices in Tallinn doubled in three years and
the average wage grew 20 percent in 2007 alone.  “We see the trends that are starting now in terms of wage
growth and property prices starting to pick up again,” Hansson
said. “If it were to continue now for several quarters, several
years, you could get into a situation where some of the
imbalances start reappearing.”  Hourly labor costs grew 7.7 percent from a year earlier in
the second quarter, the fastest increase among the European
Union’s 27 members before Croatia joined in July, according to
 Eurostat . That compared with an average increase of 0.9 percent,
the trading bloc’s statistics office said.  Economy Slows  Housing prices jumped 8.1 percent, second only to Latvia
which will adopt the euro in January, according to Eurostat.  Estonia’s gross domestic product grew 0.4 percent from a
year earlier in the third quarter, the slowest pace since it
exited a recession in 2010, as construction slumped amid
declining public investment and export demand from Finland and
 Russia  weakened.  While the strength of the jobs market may be explained by
the expansion of labor-intensive industries, such as wholesale
and retail trade, Hansson said he sees export demand from
Estonia’s main partners improving next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Tallinn at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  