-- Methane Emissions in U.S. Probably Top Estimates: Study
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-11-25T22:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/methane-emissions-in-u-s-probably-top-estimates-study.html
U.S. emissions of methane -- a
greenhouse gas -- are probably 50 percent higher than current
estimates show, according to a study published today in the
Proceedings of the National Academy of Science.  The study estimated emissions in 2007 and 2008, using
measurements on the ground, in telecommunications towers and
from aircraft for a comprehensive inventory of the second most
abundant greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide. It found that the
U.S. now underestimates methane releases from the raising of
livestock and the extraction of oil and natural gas.  That may mean methane has a bigger role in climate change
than now thought, as state officials and the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency consider new rules designed to limit emissions
that may lead to global warming.  “Methane is a powerful climate change pollutant, and the
study gives greater impetus to the EPA and states to establish
stronger standards to reduce leaks from the oil and gas
system,” Dan Lashof, who directs the climate and clear air
program at the  Natural Resources Defense Council , said in an
interview.  Texas, Oklahoma and  Kansas  represent a significant source
of domestic methane emissions, Scot Miller, a co-author of the
study, said in an interview.  “The fossil fuel industry are probably an important source
of methane gas emissions in that part of the country,” said
Miller, who’s pursuing a doctorate in Earth and Planetary
Sciences at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Fracking Factor  Emissions of methane, the main component of natural gas,
have newfound prominence with the rise of hydraulic fracturing
and the sharp growth of oil and natural gas production in the
U.S. In the fracking process, water, sand and chemicals are shot
underground to break apart rocks and free trapped natural gas or
oil.  Methane accounted for 9 percent of the  greenhouse gases 
emitted in the U.S. in 2011, according to the EPA. While methane
is 21 times more potent at trapping heat in the atmosphere, it
stays in the atmosphere for less time than carbon dioxide.  Burning natural gas emits about half of the carbon that
coal does when burned, but its climate benefits can be undercut
by methane leaks at well sites and in transporting the fuel.
Carbon dioxide  accounted  for 84 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas
emissions in 2011, according to the EPA.  Miller said the study’s authors are now examining more
recent data, which would account for the sharp increase in oil
and gas drilling in the U.S. in recent years.  In a statement, the EPA said it was “encouraged that more
methane emissions measurement data are now available to the
public.”  Colorado said last week that it would become the first
state to limit methane emissions from oil and gas production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  