-- Europe’s Financial Transaction Tax Faces Challenges, PwC Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-11-25T00:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/europe-s-financial-transaction-tax-faces-challenges-pwc-says.html
Europe ’s planned tax on financial
transactions may fail to reduce market risks and could increase
household costs, according to a PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP study
commissioned by the financial industry.  A financial transaction tax, or FTT, may reduce gross
domestic product growth by 0.3 percent to 2.4 percent, according
to the report, which examined published studies on the proposal.
It may also fail to address the market’s key sources of systemic
risk, such as the interconnectedness of financial institutions,
PwC said.  “To think the proposal for an FTT will raise the revenue
expected is unreal,” Anthony Belchambers, chief executive
officer of the Futures & Options Association, said during an
interview. “To imagine there will not be a serious loss of
trading volumes depending on the market is unreal, and to
suggest that this is a cost only to banks is unreal.”  French President  Francois Hollande , who called finance his
“greatest adversary” before he won office last year, has since
enacted a tax on  stock trading . German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
last year backed a European Commission plan for a broad-based
tax on trades in stocks, bonds, derivatives and other assets.
The European Commission has sent an initial proposal for an FTT
that would affect all 11 nations of the European Union that have
agreed to implement it.  The PwC report was commissioned by 27 trade groups,
including the FOA, Paris Europlace, the  British Bankers
Association  and the Investment Management Association.  The European Commission published an initial proposal for a
financial transaction tax in 2011, seeking to curb volatility
and make markets safer for investors. The commission said the
objectives of the tax are to create “disincentives” for
trading when it doesn’t make the market more efficient, ensure
financial institutions contribute to “covering the costs of the
recent crisis” and harmonize indirect tax legislation.  The proposal came in the aftermath of the global credit
crisis, which was the worst financial catastrophe since the
Great Depression, and amid the  European debt crisis .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  