-- Europe Risks ‘Disaster’ Without Bank Resolution, Sijbrand Says
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-11-25T17:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/europe-risks-disaster-without-bank-resolution-sijbrand-says.html
The Dutch central bank said  Europe 
must agree on a common mechanism to resolve failed banks or risk
discrediting a European Central Bank review of their assets.  Europe’s leaders should ensure sufficient financial
safeguards are in place for any recapitalization of the lenders,
Jan Sijbrand, director for banking supervision, said at a news
conference in Amsterdam today.  “A situation where regulation is happening in  Frankfurt 
but the repair or the recovery of a bank takes place in the 18
countries of the euro, will not go well for long,” he said.
“That is a recipe for disaster.”  The proposed resolution authority, along with European
Central Bank oversight of euro-area lenders, form the core of a
banking union that is intended to sever the link between bank
and sovereign debt. While European policy makers agree on the
need for a banking union after the crisis that began in  Greece 
four years ago, they are divided on the means to move forward.  Dutch banks  ING Groep NV (INGA) , ABN Amro Group NV, Rabobank Groep
and SNS Reaal NV were among firms attending meetings on the
asset review with ECB officials in Frankfurt today. Lenders from
 Italy ,  Latvia ,  Portugal , Slovenia,  Slovakia  and  Austria  were
also present. The ECB has discussed its plans in three rounds of
closed-door briefings with bank executives this month.  The ECB has clashed with  Germany  over how much to
centralize the handling of failing lenders. It has called for
the planned Single Resolution Mechanism to be based around a
“strong and independent” authority with a central fund, while
Germany has pushed to limit centralized powers and joint failed-bank financing.  Property Assets  There’s still debate over how to handle shortcomings in
asset quality ahead of the publication of the ECB’s review,
Sijbrand said.  “This is something that needs to be watched in the course
of next year to avoid an uncontrolled process,” he said.
“There can only be one round of capital raising after both
reviews have been completed.”  The Dutch central bank would be surprised if the ECB found
new issues with real estate assets in the Netherlands, some of
which turned sour after the financial crisis, Sijbrand said.  Politicians and regulators have entrusted the  European
Central Bank  with overseeing the region’s financial system to
prevent a repeat of the turmoil that set off the euro area’s
worst recession since World War II. The ECB is conducting a
three-stage asset review, which it’s running as a condition for
taking over supervision of the industry in 12 months time.  ING and ABN Amro have said they are confident about passing
the assessments after restructuring and adding to capital
buffers since the outbreak of the financial crisis five years
ago.  The asset reviews will conclude next October. Officials
will execute a preliminary assessment of risk early in 2014 to
identify assets needing further examination, then conduct a full
review of balance sheets. The European Banking Association will
then help with stress tests and an assessment of banks’
sovereign debt holdings.  “The operational challenge may be the biggest in this
review,” ING Chief Risk Officer Wilfred Nagel said this month,
referring to the data banks have to submit for the reviews. “We
are not so much concerned on the outcome.”  The ECB has identified about 130 banks that may be subject
to the balance-sheet exam, based on data for the end of 2012.
The final list will be compiled in 2014. National regulators
will run the exercise for each country, on the basis of
centrally developed data requirements and methodology.  ABN Upbeat  State-owned bank  ABN Amro  doesn’t expect it will have to go
to the government for additional capital after the ECB review,
Chairman Gerrit Zalm told lawmakers last month. There’s a
considerable margin between the bank’s current core Tier 1 ratio
of 13 percent and the regulator’s threshold of 8 percent of
capital to assets, he said.  Banks in the Netherlands had an average core Tier 1 ratio,
a measure of financial strength attaching varying risk weights
to different assets, of 11.5 percent taking into account Basel
III regulatory requirements that will apply in 2019. That
compared to 9.5 percent in 2010, according to Dutch central bank
data.  At the end of the assessment, the ECB will publish
aggregate data at country and bank level, together with any
recommendations for supervisory measures. The evaluation will be
published before the ECB assumes its supervisory role next
November, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  