-- Europe Market Structure Debate Needs More Consensus, Katz Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-11-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/europe-market-structure-debate-needs-more-consensus-katz-says.html
Amid a public debate about whether
modern equity markets are fair, reliable and transparent, the
European securities industry’s key players must collaborate more
on resolving differences, according to the new chairman of the
region’s main lobbying group for exchanges.  European bourses should focus on how to implement new
rules after a wave of global regulation, said Christian Katz,
who was  elected  chairman of the Federation of European
Securities Exchanges last week. Katz also pledged to ensure
public exchanges remain attractive to corporations seeking to
raise money by selling stock.  Regulators are rethinking the structure and oversight of
European markets, including limits on the amount of trading that
occurs on private venues known as dark pools, scrutinizing
computerized trading firms, evaluating whether market benchmarks
are rigged, and considering a tax on trades. Consensus among
banks, exchanges and regulators has proved elusive.  The public wants “safe, efficient, transparent markets,”
Katz, who is also the chief executive officer of Six Swiss
Exchange Ltd., said during an interview last week. “We have to
live up to it. The industry groups and stakeholders -- that is,
exchanges, banks, customers and the public -- should be less
against each other and more together. There should be joint
effort for capital market solutions.”  Lobbying Group  The  Federation of European Securities Exchanges , or FESE,
is a Brussels-based lobbying organization that represents 41
exchanges operating stock, fixed income, derivatives and
commodities markets from 30 countries. While exchanges, banks
and policy makers are seeking to address regulatory concerns
stemming from the 2008 global financial crisis, they have
struggled to find common ground on resolving their differences.  The European Union is reviewing the Markets in Financial
Instruments Directive, or Mifid. That regulation, which took
effect in 2007, increased competition between exchanges and
alternative venues known as multilateral trading facilities, or
MTFs.  The European Council, the European Parliament and the
European Commission are finishing up rules that would curb the
amount of trading that can occur in dark pools, toughen
oversight of high-frequency trading, curb speculation with
commodity derivatives, and push more transactions onto regulated
platforms.  “The industry needs to focus on implementation,” Katz,
45, said during the interview. “While we are in the final legs
of Mifid, the lobbying is done, and it’s more about
implementation. We need to focus on implementation, preferably
joint implementation.”  Exchanges should also seek to promote markets as a way to
raise funding, said Katz, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
banker.  “There’s been a lot of focus on the trading side, but
that’s only one major part of what exchanges provide,” Katz
said. “The investing side needs to take center stage.  Europe  as
a region is 20 percent capital market financed and 80 percent
bank financed -- the reverse of the U.S. -- so this is a
challenge. The  capital markets  need to step up and fill the
financing gap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  