-- Euro-Area Stock Volatility to Rise This Week, BBSP Says
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-11-25T14:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/euro-area-stock-volatility-to-rise-this-week-bbsp-says.html
Euro-area stocks  will experience a
surge in volatility as an indicator that combines historical
price swings with momentum to predict future moves sank to an
eight-year low, a technical analyst at BBSP SAS in Paris said.  The  Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  will start moving in wider price
bands this week as the Bollinger Band on the gauge narrowed on
Nov. 22 to 2.69, the smallest gap since April 2005, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That may narrow further before
starting to widen, heralding an increase in volatility, Jean-Charles Gand said in a telephone interview.  “After a squeeze, a price surge and subsequent band break
signal the start of a new significant move,” Gand said. “A new
advance starts with a squeeze and subsequent break above the
upper band. A new decline starts with a squeeze and subsequent
break below the lower band.”  The indicator on Euro Stoxx 50 fell to 2.36 at 3:09 p.m.
Zurich time, heading for its lowest level since February 2005.  Bollinger Bands combine information on price, momentum and
volatility to create trading-envelope charts. The so-called
BandWidth measures how broad or narrow the envelope becomes.
Technical analysts interpret the size of the gap based on the
principle that low volatility begets high volatility and vice
versa.  “It’s important to note that sometimes the first break
fails to hold as prices reverse the other way,” Gand said. “An
upside breakout followed by an immediate pullback should serve
as a warning for a down move.”  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Vannucci at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net  