-- Ex-Soros Adviser’s Dalton China Fund Returns 25% This Year
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-11-25T04:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/ex-soros-adviser-s-dalton-china-fund-beat-peers-with-25-return.html
The Dalton Greater China Fund, run
by James Rosenwald III, a former adviser to funds linked to
billionaire  George Soros , beat peers with a 25 percent return
this year, an investor newsletter seen by  Bloomberg News  showed.  The $64 million fund outperformed the Eurekahedge Greater
China Long-Short Equities Hedge Fund Index by almost 10
percentage points in the first 10 months. Bets on Taiwanese
technology companies including  Himax Technologies Inc. (HIMX)  and Hong
Kong-based property developers drove performance, Tony Hsu,
Rosenwald’s Shanghai-based co-manager, said in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg News queries.  Dalton Greater China Fund has focused on entrepreneur-led
companies and against state-controlled enterprises, Hsu said. In
a region with  capital markets  that sometimes fail to reflect its
economic growth,  Hong Kong-listed Chinese stocks , as measured by
the Hang Seng  China  Enterprise Index, lagged the MSCI World
Index in the three of the last five full years.  “We own a number of entrepreneurial-led companies where
there is strong alignment of interests between the management
and shareholders,” Hsu said in the e-mail. “At state-owned
enterprises, the senior executives are placed into these
management roles by the state and typically have no ownership in
the companies they run.”  The Eurekahedge Greater China Long-Short Equities Hedge
Fund Index underperformed the Singapore-based data provider’s
 global industry index  in three out of the last five full years.  Profitable Trades  One of the fund’s most profitable trades this year was an
investment in Himax, which designs chips for consumer
electronics displays. Google Inc. agreed to buy a 6 percent
stake in a unit of the Taiwanese company that makes liquid
crystal on silicon chips and modules used in applications such
as Google Glass.  Google Glass is a wearable computer that can take pictures
and videos as well as share information via the Internet. It may
be made available this year or next. The wearable technology
market may jump about 14-fold to $19 billion in five years,
according to a Juniper Research estimate.  Dalton began to buy Himax shares at about $1 in 2011, said
Hsu, Dalton’s Shanghai office head who once worked for Foxconn
International Holdings and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Himax’s
American depositary receipts hit a  high  of $11.02 on Oct. 2.  Developer Bets  Dalton is also betting on Hong Kong-listed property
developers with prime assets in the largest Chinese cities yet
trading at large discounts to their net asset value, according
to Hsu. An example is  CSI Properties Ltd. (497) , a Hong Kong developer
with a number of assets in Shanghai that’s  valued  at less than
40 percent of its book value.  “First-tier cities will be major beneficiaries of the
urbanization trends across China,” Hsu said, who declined to
comment on performance because of compliance constraints.  New housing prices rose in October in all but one of the 70
Chinese cities tracked by the government, even after government
measures such as raising down payment requirements to curb
increases.  New home prices in China’s four major cities rose the most
in October since January 2011, according to the National Bureau
of Statistics. Prices in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou
surged 21 percent from a year earlier, 20 percent in nearby
Shenzhen, 18 percent in  Shanghai  and 16 percent in Beijing.  The fund shorted state-owned developers which traded at
higher valuations, he added. Shorting involves selling borrowed
shares and making a profit buying them back when prices decline.  Dalton Investments LLC, based in  Santa Monica ,  California ,
oversaw $2.6 billion of assets by Nov. 1, according to the
October newsletter. Of that, $1.4 billion are Asian equity
assets managed by Rosenwald in various funds and accounts.  Rosenwald and former classmate Steve Persky set up Dalton
in 1999. Dalton also invests in global stocks, distressed debt
and distressed mortgages, according to its  website . Between 1992
and 1998, he advised “numerous” Soros funds, his Dalton
biography states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  