-- Mexico Longest-Term Bonds Slump With Peso as Yields Reach Record
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-11-25T16:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/mexico-longest-term-bonds-slump-with-peso-as-yields-reach-record.html
Mexico ’s longest-dated peso bonds
dropped, pushing yields to a record high, as concern mounted
that the U.S. Federal Reserve will move soon to reduce record
monetary stimulus that has boosted demand for the securities.  Yields on the debt maturing in 2042 increased one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.72 percent at 9:31 a.m. in
Mexico City, the highest level on a closing basis since the
securities began trading in April 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The peso depreciated 0.4 percent to
13.0154 per U.S. dollar.  This month’s sell-off in Mexico’s longer bond maturities
picked up last week when minutes of the Fed’s October policy
meeting showed officials expected to reduce their $85 billion in
monthly asset purchases “in coming months” as the economy
improves. The bond-buying helped drive foreign holdings of
Mexican local-currency government debt to an all-time high
earlier this year.  “People are nervous about emerging-market fixed income at
the moment, and that’s certainly something that’s coming through
on Mexico in the long end of the curve,” Vivienne Taberer, who
helps oversee $14 billion in fixed-income and currency emerging-market assets at Investec Asset Management, said in a telephone
interview from Cape Town. “People want yield, but they don’t
necessarily want duration.”  Mexico sends about 80 percent of its exports to U.S. The
deficit in the Latin American nation’s  current account , the
broadest measure of a country’s trade in goods and services,
deepened to $5.457 billion in the third quarter, the central
bank reported today. The median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a gap of $3.420 billion.  The  unemployment rate  fell to 5.01 percent last month, the
lowest level since June, the national statistics agency said.
The median forecast was for a drop to 5.15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  