-- Mexico’s Stealthy, Necessary Bank Reform
-- B y   G a b r i e l   C a s i l l a s
-- 2013-11-25T21:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/mexico-s-stealthy-necessary-bank-reform.html
Since President  Enrique Pena Nieto 
took office last December, Mexico has embarked on a flurry of
structural reforms in areas as varied as telecommunications,
education, taxes and the country’s national oil industry.  Yet the one reform likely to have the most immediate
positive economic effect has gone relatively unheralded: bank
lending reform, which the Mexican Senate is about to approve.
Although moves to open the oil industry represent a
revolutionary shift, their impact on increased production might
not be felt for years. Likewise, higher taxes on firms and
individuals resulting from Mexico’s much-needed fiscal overhaul
might well slow the Mexican economy in the short run. But by
making it easier to extend credit to small and medium
enterprises and low-income families, Pena Nieto’s lending
reforms could boost the economy as early as next year.  Mexico’s commercial bank credit to the nonfinancial private
sector is about 15 percent of gross domestic product. This is
way below not only developed economies’ standards (in the U.S.,
for example, the ratio is more than 150 percent), but also
emerging markets’ credit ratios. By comparison, the credit
penetration rate is almost 25 percent in Peru, slightly above 40
percent in Colombia, close to 50 percent in Brazil and more than
70 percent in Chile.  Big Hurdles  Part of the reason for Mexico’s relative backwardness could
be historical: The nationalization of the banking system in 1982
and Mexico’s banking crisis in 1994 could be factors. Yet a
better explanation lies in two characteristics of the Mexican
economy. First, a large number of workers and firms work under
the regulatory table in the informal sector; second, under
existing laws and regulations, banks face big hurdles in trying
to recover collateral, and thus have had less incentive to make
loans. It takes three years, on average, for commercial banks to
repossess a house from a delinquent mortgage loan -- and that
process can stretch as long as 10 years. Banks want to lend more
to SMEs and low-income families that either operate in the
informal sector or are high-risk potential clients, but the high
probability of default and the low chance of repossession of
collateral make them risky propositions.  Pena Nieto’s bank lending reform bill doesn’t address the
informality issue. However, the reform does tackle collateral-recovery processes. First, the bill improves the processes by
creating a system of specialized courts and judges, as well as
making it easier to grant security for loans. Second, by
enabling development banks such as Nacional Financiera SNC to
register some losses (as long as those do not threaten a bank’s
core capital), it frees them to significantly increase the
amount and number of guarantees for commercial banks to lend to
SMEs.  Brazil did something similar back in 2006 with its
“alienacao fiduciaria” reform, in which it strengthened the
banks’ ability to enforce contracts with their clients. This
reform -- in addition to higher growth rates -- enabled the
Brazilian economy to increase its credit penetration ratio to
the current 45 percent from 18 percent. In this context, using
quite conservative assumptions for Mexico -- such as  GDP  annual
growth rates of 2.5 percent to 3 percent -- the credit-to-GDP
ratio could easily reach 20 percent in five years and as high as
40 percent by 2025.  Even though the causal flow generally goes from economic
growth to credit demand growth, plenty of  research  supports the
idea that in countries such as Mexico with a high degree of
credit rationing, causality could actually go from credit growth
to economic growth, at least until the economy achieves its
“natural” credit penetration ratio. In Mexico’s case, that
should be about 40 percent. That calculation takes into account
the global wave of financial regulation and Mexico’s
particularly restrictive financial framework, which allowed the
country to be the first to adopt minimum capital requirement
standards under the Basel III rules back in January.  Speedy Implementation  So how will this reform affect Mexico’s economic growth? I
would put it as high as 0.75 percentage point on long-term
potential GDP. In other words, the bank lending reform bill
could raise the potential GDP growth rate to 3.75 percent, from
a projected 3 percent. (My estimate is more bullish than that of
the central bank of Mexico, which foresees an impact of 0.5
percentage point.) Moreover, Mexico could start to experience
around 0.2 percentage point of additional growth as soon as next
year.  The key to achieving these results will be speedy
implementation. Secondary laws will have to be changed to reduce
legal barriers to collateral recovery. Creating the new
specialized courts and judges will be especially challenging,
given the weakness of Mexico’s underfunded judiciary. And the
actual, as opposed to the stated, willingness of generally
conservative banking regulators to tolerate losses on the part
of the development banks remains to be seen.  Even so, bank lending reform will help to ease foreign
investors’ concerns about the looming negative impact of tax
reform on the economy next year, which -- after all is said and
done, including new taxes on soda and junk food -- could amount
to 0.1 percent of GDP. Bank lending reform was not part of Pena
Nieto’s original reform schedule in his presidential campaign.
Together with the hoopla surrounding energy reform, that might
explain the muted media attention. But keep your eyes on the
lending window: By increasing access to banking services, this
“stealth reform” has the potential to increase the
productivity of small and medium enterprises and help workers to
smooth their consumption patterns, changing Mexico’s patterns of
social mobility and income distribution for the better.  ( Gabriel Casillas  is the chief economist and head of
research of Grupo Financiero Banorte. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Gabriel Casillas at  gabriel.casillas@banorte.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 