-- Extremist Tide Poses Growing Threat to Europe, Katainen Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-11-25T12:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/extremist-tide-a-growing-threat-to-european-union-katainen-says.html
Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  urged voters to embrace more moderate policies as he
cautioned against the threat to Europe posed by a surge in
extremists bent on splitting the euro area.  Katainen asked voters to leave “anti-euro thinking
aside,” in a Nov. 21 interview in Helsinki. “Times have been
tough for quite a while and that’s showing for the political
groups who have been there to clean up the mess.”  Katainen’s comments underline the political frailty on
which Europe’s union rests as parties associated with fiscal
restraint are punished by voters while groups promising more
spending and tighter borders enjoy increasing popularity. The
European Union now faces a rise in anti-euro parties in
parliamentary elections in May.  “It’s clear that these left-wing and right-wing populist
movements will gain support,” Katainen said. “But I don’t
think it will change the entire  Europe .”  Since Europe’s debt crisis started four years ago,
discontent has spread after taxpayers contributed to five
bailouts and endured austerity policies only to see the economy
of the 17-nation euro area shrink 0.4 percent this year. Growth
will be 1.1 percent in 2014, less than half the projected 2.6
percent pace in the U.S., the European Commission estimates.  Austerity Backlash  Europe’s economic pain has helped parties in the worst-hit
nations gain support. Greece’s Syriza, a group that demands an
end to austerity and more lenient bailout terms, is the
country’s biggest opposition party.  “A big part of this is that people don’t like bailouts, no
one likes them,” Katainen said. “That creates room for
populist movements to grow.”  Nations that avoided bailouts and contributed to rescues
are also witnessing a rise in anti-EU sentiment. Geert Wilders’
Party for Freedom in the Netherlands has capitalized on bailout
fatigue, as has Timo Soini’s “The Finns” party, which enjoys
almost as much support as Katainen’s ruling National Coalition
Party.  Two recessions  in four years, mounting job cuts and the
fifth consecutive year of budget deficits have depleted Finns’
willingness to pitch in for euro peers and provided ground for
discontent that’s showing in the polls. Finland was the only
euro member to negotiate collateral in exchange for its
contribution to  Greece ’s second bailout and  Spain ’s bank rescue.  Le Pen  In  France , Europe’s biggest economy after  Germany , anti-euro sentiment is also rising. The National Front would win the
most votes in European Parliament elections in May, according to
an Oct. 9 Ifop poll for Le  Nouvel Observateur . The group, led by
Marine Le Pen, stands to gain 24 percent support, according to
the poll.  Le Pen says she’s working with  Austria ’s  Freedom Party , the
anti-immigration Sweden Democrats, Vlaams Belang in  Belgium , and
Wilders in the Netherlands to create an anti-EU bloc in the new
parliament.  Identifying euro-skeptic parties as racist or right-wing is
“political tactics” against parties who are “challenging the
establishment,” Soini said in an interview in Helsinki on Nov.
11. “In every country, the elite and old established parties,
they put that kind of label on every newcomer.”  “The Finns” party, which tripled its support in  Finland ’s
2011 general election, also stands to boost its backing in
Europe’s legislature, according to a YLE poll on Nov. 20. With
17 percent, it still trails Katainen’s National Coalition Party,
which had 22.7 percent of votes, according to the poll.  The development could also be a reflection of more people
turning to the polls to vent their frustration, Katainen said.  “It may also be that people who didn’t use to vote or
didn’t care about Europe are now starting to care enough to give
a vote to these no-movements,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  