-- Fluid’s Watson-Powered Shopping App Will Debut Next Year
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-11-25T21:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/fluid-s-watson-powered-shopping-app-will-debut-next-year.html
Fluid Inc., an Internet startup that
helps shoppers create custom Brooks Brothers suits and Reebok
sneakers, will introduce its first app powered by  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s Watson system by mid-2014, pushing the
technology into the consumer market for the first time.  The Fluid Expert Personal Shopper will take advantage of
Watson’s ability to answer questions in plain English and learn
from the responses, said Fluid Chief Executive Officer Kent Deverell. The application will be able to have conversations
with customers and then recommend clothing based on their tastes
-- say, a winter coat with just the right fit. A prototype
version has been built for  VF Corp. (VFC) ’s North Face brand, he said.  The new app will serve as a test for both Fluid and Watson
itself, which hasn’t proved whether it can interact directly
with consumers. Watson and its artificial-intelligence system,
best known for beating humans on the “Jeopardy!” game show,
has been used to crunch medical and financial data behind the
scenes. Dealing with impatient shoppers -- who can click away to
another app or website at any moment -- will show whether the
technology can be engaging and entice purchases.  “It’s still very early, so we need to walk before we can
run,” Deverell said in an interview. “We are pretty impressed
with what Watson can do so far. Because it’s a learning system,
the more it gets used, the smarter it gets.”  Jacket Shopping  Fluid’s prototype app for North Face will act like an
experienced in-store salesperson helping find the right jacket
or hiking equipment for a customer, Deverell said. Shoppers can
tell the app their preferences, such as needing a coat for New
York winter weather or not liking how down jackets can bunch up,
and they will be directed to a product that fits their tastes,
he said.  Until now, San Francisco-based  Fluid  has focused on helping
shoppers create custom products using a Web interface. Customers
use Fluid software to order monogrammed dress shirts from Brooks
Brothers Inc. or add special graphics to  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s Reebok-brand shoes.  The company, which has about 150 employees, began working
with Watson as IBM prepared to open up the technology to
application developers online. The move, announced Nov. 14, is
part of IBM’s effort to offer more cloud-based services, which
are delivered over the Internet. The 102-year-old computing
giant is looking to the cloud to help offset a drop in hardware
sales.  Sales Slump  IBM shares tumbled last month after the Armonk, New York-based company posted its sixth straight quarterly revenue
decline. A shift to higher-margin software and services hasn’t
made up for a slump in demand for servers and other hardware.
Still, revenue from cloud products and services reached more
than $1 billion last quarter, the first period in which IBM
disclosed a sales figure for the category.  Stan Druckenmiller, who boasts one of the best track
records in the hedge-fund industry over the past three decades,
is betting against shares of IBM.  “IBM is old technology being replaced by cloud
technology,” Druckenmiller, 60, said in an interview with
Bloomberg TV’s  Stephanie Ruhle  last week. “It’s one of the more
higher-probability shorts I have seen in years.”  IBM shares slid 1.3 percent to $178.94 at the close in New
York. The stock is down 6.6 percent this year.  It’s hard to tell how much Watson will help boost sales.
App developers won’t pay any upfront cost for access to the
technology, Stephen Gold, IBM’s vice president of Watson
Solutions, said in an interview. Partners who use the service in
their apps will be charged on a metered usage model, he said.  Revenue Sharing  Fluid is still working out the pricing model for its app,
which could involve splitting some of the revenue made from
purchases, Deverell said.  In February 2012, Fluid received $24 million in funding
from the asset management arm of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  The
company may try to raise more if there’s a need to do so,
particularly for its new Watson-powered venture, Deverell said.  Users will be able interact with the Watson app via voice
or text commands. Already consumers are doing more of their
shopping on smartphones, which are perfect for a conversational
approach, Andrew Sirotnik, Fluid’s chief experience officer,
said in an interview.  “That device -- it is naturally made for you to talk
into,” he said. “If you could actually start speaking to a
brand or a retailer and then things happen for you, that feels
much more phone-like and much more what the consumer wants out
of their smartphone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  