-- German Stocks Rise on Iran Nuclear Pact; Lufthansa Gains
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-11-25T08:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/german-stocks-rise-on-iran-nuclear-pact-lufthansa-gains.html
German stocks  climbed, after posting
their longest weekly winning streak since February 2012, as Iran
agreed to restrict its nuclear program and investors awaited a
report on U.S. pending house sales.  Fresenius Medical Care AG surged 7.9 percent after U.S.
regulators scrapped a proposed 9.4 percent cut in Medicare
payments to dialysis providers.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s
biggest airline by sales, gained 2.4 percent.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  added 0.6 percent to 9,277.27 at 9:52 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . The equity benchmark has surged 22 percent in 2013 as
central banks around the world pledged to leave interest rates
low for a prolonged period of time. The gauge has climbed for
the past seven weeks. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  increased 0.7
percent today.  Iran agreed to limit its nuclear program in exchange for as
much as $7 billion in relief from economic sanctions over six
months. Diplomats including Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad
Javad Zarif and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry announced the
pact early yesterday in Geneva.  Iran  aims to conclude a comprehensive deal with the U.S.,
U.K., Germany, France, Russia and China within six months. Under
the temporary agreement, Iran must improve co-operation with
United Nations monitors, commit to eliminate its stockpile of
uranium enriched to 20 percent and halt advanced centrifuge
installation, the White House said in a statement.  In the U.S., a National Association of Realtors report at
10 a.m. in Washington may show that  pending house sales  rose 1.1
percent in October, according to the median forecast of 34
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. They declined 5.6 percent
in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Vannucci at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net  