-- German Bonds Rise Amid ECB Outlook; Spanish Yield Curve Steepens
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-11-25T16:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/germany-s-bonds-little-changed-before-euro-area-inflation-report.html
German bonds rose for the first time
in three days before a report this week that economists said
will show inflation is contained and on speculation the  European
Central Bank  will take more steps to keep borrowing costs low.  Austrian, Dutch and French securities also rallied after
ECB Governing Council member Ardo Hansson said policy makers
stand ready to cut interest rates further and are prepared to
make its deposit rate negative. The Spanish  yield curve 
steepened, with three-year rates falling to a record, while 10-year ones climbed the most in two weeks.  “The debate in  Europe  is around inflation and how much
lower it can potentially go,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at
Danske Bank A/S in Dublin. “Risk reward is that the European
Central Bank does more than people expect next year. Dips on the
bund should be bought.”  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.73 percent at 4:22 p.m. London time after
rising three basis points during the previous two days. The 2
percent bond maturing in August 2023 gained 0.195, or 1.95 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,351) face amount, to 102.44.  The annual  inflation rate  in the euro region was at 0.8
percent in November from a four-year low of 0.7 percent the
previous month, according to a  Bloomberg News  survey before the
European Union’s statistics office report on Friday.  Rate Reduction  German 10-year yields dropped the most in three weeks on
Nov. 7 after the ECB cut its main refinancing rate to a record
0.25 percent, citing the possibility of a “prolonged period of
low inflation.” Policy makers are considering a smaller-than-normal reduction in the deposit rate, currently at zero, to
minus 0.1 percent if more stimulus is needed, Bloomberg News
reported last week. ECB officials next meet on Dec. 5.  France ’s 10-year yield declined two basis points to 2.19
percent, Austria’s slipped two basis points to 2.07 percent and
Dutch 10-year rates fell two basis points to 2.04 percent.  “The options on rate cuts are still not fully exhausted
and there are all kinds of other measures that are still on the
table,” Hansson said in an interview in the Estonian capital
Tallinn on Nov. 22 that was published today. “Of course, every
time you use one option, you have one less to use. But I don’t
see us, by any means, running out of our toolkit of things we
can draw on.”  The ECB supported the  bond market  by offering unlimited
three-year loans under its Longer-Term Refinancing Operations
starting in late 2011.  Spanish Spread  Spain ’s  three-year yield  dropped as low as 1.685 percent,
the  least  since Bloomberg began compiling data on the securities
in 1993, before being little changed at 1.71 percent. The 10-year yield climbed six basis points to 4.16 percent, the biggest
increase since Nov. 8.  The  spread  between the securities widened five basis points
to 245 basis points, the most since Feb. 26.  “We’ve been looking for a curve steepening for Spain,
especially between the five and 10 year,” said Rainer Guntermann, a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “The short-end should remain firmly anchored but
there are headwinds in the long-end coming from U.S. tapering
concerns and the year-end deadline for the ECB’s asset quality
review,” he said.  Volatility on Spanish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Austria and Finland,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities and credit-default swaps.  A cut in the  Federal Reserve ’s bond-purchase stimulus
program is “on the table” for the next meeting scheduled for
Dec. 17-18 depending on the performance of the economy, Fed Bank
of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said last week. Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the benchmark  interest rate  will
probably stay low long after the purchases end.  German  government bonds  lost 1.3 percent this year through
Nov. 22, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spain’s
returned 11 percent and  Italy ’s earned 7.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  