-- Ghana Seeks Okay for Third Eurobond as Power Fund Planned
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-11-25T10:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/ghana-seeks-okay-for-third-eurobond-as-power-fund-planned.html
Ghana ’s Finance Ministry will seek
approval from lawmakers to sell the country’s third Eurobond and
start a fund for infrastructure including power and
transportation in West Africa’s second-biggest economy.  The plan to sell debt, to be presented to the Accra-based
Parliament before the end the year, will allow the ministry to
sell dollar bonds when market conditions are right, Deputy
Finance Minister George Ricketts-Hagan said by phone on Nov. 22.
Ghana will seek at least $1 billion in bonds to be used for
roads, energy, railways, and ports, Ricketts-Hagan said. No time
frame for the sale has been set, he said.  “We need to raise our infrastructure to match our low
middle-income status,” Ricketts-Hagan said. “What we want to
do now is to try and get approval early so that whenever we
think we need to go to the market and when we get the right
window, we do so.”  Ghana’s slow approval process delayed the issuance of $1
billion of Eurobonds by two months, boosting yields on the debt
to 7.875 percent when it could’ve paid 5 percent to 7 percent,
according to a Finance Ministry  document  last week. Cabinet
ministers gave approval for the July sale on April 2, while
parliamentarians assented June 26, a week after Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S. may this year taper
stimulus that bolstered emerging-market assets.  Yields on African sovereign debt climbed 109 basis points,
or 1.09 percentage point, between April and July, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes . Rwanda sold debt at 6.625 percent
in May and Zambia issued notes in September 2012 at 5.375
percent. Yields on Ghana’s debt due July 2023 fell two basis
points to 8.24 percent by 10:06 a.m. in Accra.  Public Procurement  Borrowing costs were “slightly more expensive than if we
had gone in a little bit earlier,” Ricketts-Hagan said. “We
couldn’t go in early because if you haven’t got an approval from
Parliament, you can’t go and raise a Eurobond.”  In the ministry’s document, it said a window for lower
rates was missed “primarily because of our demanding internal
processes,” including public procurement rules for choosing an
adviser and parliamentary approval.  Ghana will set up a Capital Markets Committee to advise on
debt sales and create an infrastructure fund next year,
Ricketts-Hagan said. The fund will operate like a company with
the ability to borrow on its own or work with private investors
for infrastructure projects that can recoup the money, he said.
Seed capital for the fund will be taken from the value-added
tax, which was increased to 15 percent from 12.5 percent this
month, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  