-- Given Imaging Advances Most in Four Months on Buyout
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-11-25T21:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/given-imaging-advances-most-in-four-months-on-buyout.html
Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN)  jumped the most
in four months in New York after the daily financial Globes said
three companies are in talks to buy the Israeli maker of
swallowable cameras.  Shares of the Yokneam, Israel-based company advanced 6.7
percent to $22.63, the most since July 15. The stock traded at a
premium of $1.11 to Tel Aviv, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Given Imaging and the unnamed companies are in negotiations
for a deal that would value the Israeli developer at as much as
$800 million, a 12 percent premium to the close today, Globes
reported on its website today, without saying how it obtained
the information. Discovery Group, which owns about 4 percent of
Given Imaging’s shares, said on Oct. 2 that it wants the company
to resume exploring sale process after ending a search for a
possible merger in January.  “It’s a very strong, attractive, consumable business and a
strategic acquirer that already has a gastroenterology sales
force could wipe out a significant portion” of their expenses,
Bryan Brokmeier, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC, said by phone
from New York today. “They do have some shareholders who are
pushing them to sell themselves and there’s a lot of synergies
to a strategic buyer of acquiring Given.  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901) ,  Olympus Corp. (7733)  and  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX)  are potential buyers, according to Maxim Group.  A spokeswoman for Given Imaging declined to comment when
contacted by telephone. Denise Kaigler, a senior vice president
of corporate affairs and communications at Boston Scientific in
Natick,  Massachusetts , said the company doesn’t comment on
speculation in an e-mailed statement. Representatives for Fuji
and Olympus couldn’t be reached by e-mail after normal business
hours in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  