-- Guinea Plans New Government to Focus on Attracting Investments
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-11-25T08:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/guinea-plans-new-government-to-focus-on-attracting-investments.html
Guinea’s incoming government will
focus on attracting investments for infrastructure projects
needed to boost the African nation’s agricultural output and
reduce poverty, President  Alpha Conde  said.  “Our priority are the investments,” he said yesterday in
an interview in the United Arab Emirates capital,  Abu Dhabi ,
that is hosting an investors conference for the West African
nation. “Our priorities are energy, infrastructure,
agriculture, health, education.”  Conde said Prime Minister Mohamed Said Fofana’s cabinet is
expected to resign, making way for a new administration. He said
he plans no special measure to appease the opposition that is
disputing the results of the parliamentary elections held in
September.  The opposition called for a strike today after the  Supreme
Court  validated the results that gave Conde’s Rally of the
Guinean People party 53 of the 114 seats and the Union of
Democratic Forces of  Guinea  of former prime minister Cellou Dalein Diallo 37 seats.  “I ask you, what is the African country where the
opposition has such a percentage of seats?” Conde said. “The
debate should now happen inside parliament and I should now take
care of the country’s development.”  Guinea, where more than half the population of 10 million
lives below the poverty line, secured $480 million in financial
support at the conference. The  Islamic Development Bank  pledged
$300 million and the  World Bank  $50 million, while the Saudi
Fund for Development promised a $100 million-loan and a $30
million-grant.  Agricultural Development  “The development of agriculture is the pillar of growth
and the fight against poverty,” Conde told the conference. “We
plan to make the best of the mining sector to develop
agriculture and make Guinea the food basket of the region.”  The nation’s gross domestic product should double when Rio
Tinto Group starts production from its Simandou concession, one
of the world’s largest untapped iron-ore mines, Chief Executive
Officer  Sam Walsh  told the conference. Production at the
concession, expected to start in 2018 at the earliest, should
generate about $7.6 billion annually, according to the company’s
website.  Guinea plans to increase rice output 50 percent to 3
million tons a year in five years, by cultivating more land,
Agriculture Minister Marc Yombouno said in an interview in Abu
Dhabi yesterday. The country is now producing on less than 10
percent of its 6 million hectares of arable land, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  