-- Libya Calls All Army Personnel to Duty After Benghazi Clashes
-- B y   M a r i a m   S a m i
-- 2013-11-25T11:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/libya-calls-all-army-personnel-to-duty-after-benghazi-clashes.html
Libya mobilized all army forces in
the eastern city of Benghazi and issued orders to open fire on
anyone carrying weapons after overnight clashes with an Islamist
militia left nine dead and dozens wounded.  The fighting between the army’s special forces division and
members of the Ansar al-Sharia militia was the latest outbreak
of unrest in the birthplace of the 2011 uprising against Muammar Qaddafi.  It also reflects the deteriorating security situation in
Libya as the central government struggles to exert control over
various regional militias. Many were key players in Qaddafi’s
ouster, and they are now demanding greater political and
economic spoils in the oil-rich nation.  Nine people were killed and 43 wounded in clashes sparked
by “an attack on the Libyan army in charge of protecting the
city”, the government said on its official Facebook page.  The incident highlights the need for the “speedy exit of
all armed militia outside the city and delegating security to
the police and army only,” the statement added.  Libyan officials have summoned all army forces in the city
from their barracks, Ibrahim Al-Sharaa, spokesman for the joint
security forces operations room, told Al-Wataniya television.  Authorities will not allow “anyone to terrorize the city
of Benghazi and its people,” Colonel Mustafa Al-Sharkasi,
spokesman for the Benina military base in the city, told the
channel.  The fighting comes about 10 days after a regional militia
opened fire on protesters demanding it vacate the capital,
leaving at least 46 dead, according to government figures. The
Ansar al-Sharia militia, which largely operates from Libya’s
east, has been blamed for attacks on the U.S. consulate in
Benghazi last year that killed the U.S. ambassador and three
other Americans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Sami in Cairo at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  