-- ICC Arrests Four Aides to Congo Presidential Candidate Bemba
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-11-25T15:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/icc-arrests-four-aides-to-congo-presidential-candidate-bemba-2-.html
The  International Criminal Court 
said it arrested four associates of former  Democratic Republic 
of Congo presidential candidate Jean-Pierre Bemba for tampering
with witnesses in his trial.  Two members of Bemba’s defense team, Aime Kilolo Musamba
and Jean-Jacques Mangenda Kabongo, were arrested along with a
defense witness, Narcisse Arido, and a member of Congo’s
parliament, Fidele Babala Wandu, according to a statement
published on The Hague-based court’s website. Bemba is also
accused of the same crime, which carries a maximum five-year
prison sentence and a possible fine, it said.  “It is particularly disturbing that a member of the legal
profession is alleged to have intentionally and systematically
participated in criminal activities aimed at undermining the
administration of justice,” the office of ICC Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Bemba, a former rebel leader, is facing charges of crimes
against humanity and  war crimes  for rapes, murders and pillaging
committed by his troops in the Central African Republic in 2002
and 2003. In 2006, he finished second to President  Joseph Kabila 
in Congo’s first free elections in four decades.  The arrests took place on Nov. 23 and yesterday in four
countries, according to the ICC. Kilolo Musamba was apprehended
by Belgian authorities, while Mangenda Kabongo’s arrest took
place in the Netherlands and French authorities detained Arido.
Babala was detained in Kinshasa, Congo’s capital, at about 1:30
a.m., Media Minister  Lambert Mende  said by phone.  Opposition Politicians  Babala is a senior official in Bemba’s political party, the
Movement for the Liberation of Congo, which is one of the top
two opposition groups in parliament.  “This comes at a very bad time for the opposition, which
is already imploding due to squabbles over leadership and the
prospect of joining Kabila in a government of national
cohesion,” said Jason Stearns, an author and former head of the
United Nations group of experts on Congo. “The MLC itself is
divided, and Babala was leading a faction opposed to joining the
government.”  Kabila announced plans in October to form the new
government, which will include members of the opposition and
civil society groups.  “This confirms almost the death of the MLC,” Ntanda
Nkingi Nkere, a professor of political science at the University
of Kinshasa, said today by phone. “I don’t see how it can be a
challenge in 2016,” when the next national elections are
scheduled.  Consolidate Power  The arrests will help Kabila consolidate power, he said.  “One may argue that Kabila is getting too much power, but
it is simply because those who are supposed to counterbalance
him have decided to join him,” Nkere said.  Kabila’s presidential majority won more than half the seats
in the 500-member national assembly in 2011 and the number of
his supporters in the body has grown in the subsequent years.  “Even without these arrests, the opposition was going to
have a hard time mounting a concerted campaign against Kabila at
the national level,” Stearns said. The road will be even more
difficult with Bemba likely to remain in prison and the runner-up in the 2011 elections, Etienne Tshisekedi, set to turn 83 at
the time of the next vote, he said.  Congo’s constitution prohibits Kabila from seeking a third
term in office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  