-- India Rupee Climbs Most in Asia on Iran Deal, RBI Swap Extension
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-11-25T11:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/india-rupee-surges-most-in-asia-on-iran-deal-rbi-swap-extension.html
India’s rupee rose the most among
its regional peers on optimism a drop in oil costs after  Iran 
agreed to curb its nuclear program will help shrink the South
Asian nation’s current-account deficit.  Brent crude  fell 1.7 percent after Iran agreed yesterday to
curtail nuclear activities in return for easing of some
sanctions on oil, auto parts, gold and precious metals, the
first major crack in a decade-long deadlock. The  Reserve Bank  of
India on Nov. 22 conditionally extended the deadline for banks
to swap dollars raised through overseas borrowings at discounted
rates, further bolstering the local currency.  “The Iran deal is a huge boost as our oil costs will come
down,” said Vikas Babu, a trader at  Andhra Bank  in Mumbai.
“The swap-window extension will have a limited, but positive
impact on the  exchange rate .”  The rupee gained 0.6 percent to 62.4950 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 62.4375 earlier, the strongest level since
Nov. 20. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, was little changed
at 11.60 percent.  India  imports about 80 percent of its oil and refiners are
the biggest purchasers of foreign currency in the nation. The
shortfall in the broadest measure of trade will narrow to $56
billion in the year through March 2014 from a record of $88
billion in the previous 12 months, RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan
predicted last month.  Concessional Swaps  Indian banks now have until Dec. 31 to avail themselves of
the central bank’s offer of concessional swaps for dollars
raised through overseas debt, compared with the previous
deadline of Nov. 30, as long as the funds have been committed by
the end of this month, the RBI said in a  statement  after market
hours on Nov. 22.  Three-month offshore non-deliverable rupee forwards rose
0.3 percent to 64.04 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  