-- India’s Sensex Climbs Most in Asia as Refiners Gain on Iran Deal
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-11-25T12:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/india-s-nifty-stock-index-futures-advance-after-oil-declines.html
Indian stocks advanced the most in
Asia amid speculation falling oil prices will cool inflation
after Iran agreed to limit its nuclear program in exchange for
relief from some sanctions.  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. (HPCL) , a state-run refiner, and  Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) , the largest state explorer, had the biggest
rally in more than two months.  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB)  ended a four-day
loss on a plan to add the lender to the S&P BSE Sensex.  Bharat
Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL)  was the best performer on the Sensex.  The Sensex jumped 1.9 percent to 20,605.08 at the close.
Wholesale prices in  India , which imports about 80 percent of its
oil, climbed 7 percent in October, the fastest pace since
February, data showed this month. The lifting of a European
Union ban on insuring tankers carrying Iranian crude as part of
a nuclear deal will ease the process of buying the Persian Gulf
state’s oil, according to  Indian (SENSEX)  refiners. Brent crude headed
for the biggest drop in three weeks.  “The Iran deal impacts the oil market as well as India’s
economy and that improved sentiments here,” Dipan Mehta, a
member of the BSE Ltd., said on Bloomberg TV India today.  The Reserve Bank of India raised its key interest rate on
Oct. 29, the second straight increase, to fight inflation. The
authority is due to review monetary policy on Dec. 18.  Hindustan Petroleum soared 5.7 percent, the biggest gain
since Sept. 6. Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest state
refiner, climbed 2.6 percent to 205.85 rupees. Bharat Petroleum
Corp. surged the most since Sept. 27. Oil & Natural Gas gained
3.7 percent, the biggest increase since Sept. 19.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the owner of the world’s largest
refining complex, added 0.9 percent, ending a three-day fall.  Lenders Climb  Axis Bank increased 3.1 percent, ending a four-day, 5.1
percent drop. The stock will be added to the Sensex from Dec.
23.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  jumped 5.3 percent. The 13-member S&P BSE
Bankex surged the most since Oct. 29 after declining 6.7 percent
in the three weeks ended Nov. 22.  “Banks stocks saw some short-covering ahead of the expiry
this week,” Siddarth Bhamre, an analyst at Angel Broking Ltd.,
said by telephone from Mumbai. Indian derivatives expire on the
last Thursday of every month.  Power-equipment maker Bharat Heavy soared 5.2 percent, the
most in two months, while engineering company  Larsen & Toubro
Ltd. (LT)  added 4 percent to 1,002.65 rupees.  The Sensex has gained 6.1 percent this year, the largest
increase among the four biggest  emerging markets , and trades at
13.5 times projected 12-month profits, compared with the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index’s 10.6 times.  Global investors bought a net $2.7 million of local shares
on Nov. 22, taking this year’s inflows to $17.2 billion,
according to data from the market regulator.  The CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index increased 2 percent to 6,115.35. The
India VIX gained 5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  