-- Investcorp of Bahrain Adds $270 Million Purchase to U.S. Assets
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-11-25T13:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/investcorp-of-bahrain-adds-270-million-purchase-to-u-s-assets.html
Investcorp Bank BSC, the Bahrain-based investment firm, bought U.S. apartment buildings for about
$270 million, adding to office and retail assets acquired there
earlier this year.  The company’s U.S.-based real estate unit purchased
properties in the greater metropolitan areas of  Chicago , Las
Vegas and Austin,  Texas , Investcorp said in a statement today.
The buildings include about 3,000 units and have a combined
average occupancy rate of 95 percent.  The deal is “consistent with our strategy of targeting
high-quality assets with what we believe are attractive yields
and the potential for near- and long-term upside through
operating improvements and renovations,” Christopher Hoeffel,
managing director at Investcorp’s real estate group, said in the
statement.  Gulf investors are snapping up properties in Europe and the
U.S. as they seek to shift investments away from their home
region’s less developed markets. Investcorp in April said it
bought $200 million of properties in the Washington, Denver and
Houston areas. Earlier this month, it announced the purchase of
office and retail assets in the U.S. valued at $240 million.  The deal announced today includes two student housing
communities near the University of Texas in Austin; the Eagle
Crest Apartments, a 624-unit complex in Las Vegas; and 1,514
apartments in three towns outside Chicago.  Investcorp has spent about $925 million on properties since
the fourth quarter of 2012, the company said today. It currently
has more than $4 billion of property and real estate debt funds
under management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  