-- Is the SEC’s New Enforcement Zeal for Real?
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-11-25T23:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/is-the-sec-s-new-enforcement-zeal-for-real-.html
Mary Jo White , the chairman of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, has been on a charm
offensive of late, hoping to prove that her agency is no longer
the lap dog of Wall Street.  It’s not an easy argument to make. Not only did White’s
predecessor,  Mary Schapiro , appear to let the inmates run the
asylum by not aggressively bringing cases against the Wall
Street bankers who caused the financial crisis, but White
herself, for all the bravado, is also a product of the revolving
door between Wall Street and Washington.  During her long legal career, White has ping-ponged between
the U.S. attorney’s office in Manhattan and Debevoise & Plimpton
LLP, the Wall Street law firm. Her husband,  John White , has also
bounced between the SEC and Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, another
prestigious Wall Street law firm.  Part of White’s strategy to recover the SEC’s swagger has
been to appear tougher than Schapiro in speeches, including at a
Bloomberg  conference  in September and at a  lecture  at Fordham
Law School in October, and to make herself available for a rare
profile in the New Yorker.  In that Nov. 11  article , Nick Lemman spoke with  Andrew Ceresney , who worked with White at Debevoise and whom White
recruited to be co-head of SEC enforcement along with  George Canellos , another revolving-door practitioner. “Part of the
mission is to protect investors and make sure the markets are
fair and efficient,” Ceresney told Lemman. “Through
enforcement you do that by bringing the actions where the
evidence supports it. You punish people to the extent the
securities law allows. You try to deter misconduct. Take
important actions in important priority areas.” Sadly, this
seems like pretty standard spin rather than anything new and
aggressive.  Genuine Change  How do mere mortals gauge whether White & Co. are just
blowing smoke, as did so many of her predecessors, or whether
genuine change is afoot at the SEC? Will the SEC punish Wall
Street bankers for wrongdoing leading up to the financial
crisis? (And not just poor Fabrice Tourre, the Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. vice president whom the SEC prosecuted civilly for
his role as a foot soldier in Wall Street’s army of mortgage-backed securities traders and salesmen. To which I continue to
say, “Free Fab!”)  To test the SEC’s new resolve, keep an eye on the civil
case involving  Eric Ben-Artzi , a quantitative analyst turned
whistle-blower at Deutsche Bank AG in New York. The bank is
being investigated by White’s enforcement division. If she
pursues Deutsche Bank for misrepresenting its financial health
before and during the financial crisis, as Ben-Artzi alleges,
then we’ll know her zeal is for real. If the case languishes or
isn’t prosecuted aggressively, then we’ll know that the SEC
remains in the thrall of Wall Street.  Ben-Artzi previously worked at Goldman Sachs and Citigroup
Inc. before joining Deutsche Bank in June 2010 as a vice
president in the legal, risk and capital division. One of his
jobs was to figure out how much the bank could lose from a
credit-derivatives portfolio in a “black swan” event, such as
the one the world experienced in 2007 and 2008. He had done
similar work at Goldman Sachs, using the firm’s proprietary
computer models. But at Deutsche Bank, he quickly discovered
that a flawed financial model was improperly evaluating the
“tail risk” in the bank’s $120 billion portfolio.  Ben-Artzi believed that Deutsche Bank had been overvaluing
its portfolio, which was composed largely of Canadian
collateralized debt obligations, by $10 billion to $12 billion.
If true, it would mean that, in the years leading up to 2008,
the bank had materially overstated its income. Ben-Artzi
believed the miscalculation was the difference between Deutsche
Bank appearing solvent and being insolvent and in need of a
government bailout -- or risk failing.  Complex Models  The financial models are complex, of course, and subject to
interpretation and differing opinions. Yet Ben-Artzi -- who has
a doctorate in applied mathematics from New York University and
has experience valuing options embedded in complex credit
portfolios -- was convinced the bank had erred.  He told his bosses, who tried to dissuade him from his view
that the securities were misvalued. They encouraged him to toe
the party line. Instead, after reporting his dissenting views to
his supervisors and then to an internal hotline, Ben-Artzi filed
with the SEC a confidential whistle-blower complaint in which he
claimed a serious error had been made. Three days later, in
November 2011, Deutsche Bank fired him and immediately ushered
him out of his office at 60 Wall Street.  If things are working properly at the SEC, Ben-Artzi’s
complaint should lead to an enforcement action that could be the
test case for White’s new resolve. (Much of Ben-Artzi’s story
was originally revealed in an excellent December 2012 Financial
Times  article .)  Although Ben-Artzi’s complaint is confidential, his
attorney,  Jordan Thomas , a partner at Labaton Sucharow LLP and a
former senior SEC enforcement official, told me that Ben-Artzi
hired the Kilgour Williams Group, a respected Toronto-based
boutique investment bank that specializes in valuation work, to
conduct a financial analysis of the Canadian CDO portfolio.  As part of that analysis, Kilgour Williams uncovered copies
of Deutsche Bank’s own contemporaneous analyses filed with the
trustees of the CDOs. They showed that the Canadian CDO
portfolio had been overvalued by Canadian $3.6 billion and
likely much more, according to Kilgour Williams, when the time
value of the options are factored in, among other reasons. That
isn’t quite the $10 billion to $12 billion that Ben-Artzi found,
but not tin, either.  Complicating matters further is that one of the people at
Deutsche Bank who repeatedly tried to persuade Ben-Artzi to drop
his concerns was  Robert Rice , the head of governance, litigation
and regulation in the Americas. Rice is now White’s chief
counsel at the SEC.  Revolving Door  Also, the person who preceded Ceresney and Canellos as
director of enforcement -- when Ben-Artzi filed his complaint --
was  Robert Khuzami , the SEC enforcement director under Schapiro,
the former general counsel of Deutsche Bank in the Americas and
now a $5 million-a-year man at Kirkland & Ellis LLP. Khuzami’s
boss at Deutsche Bank was  Richard Walker , the general counsel of
Deutsche Bank’s corporate and investment bank and also a former
chief enforcement officer at the SEC. Spin,  revolving door ,
spin.  Senator  Sherrod Brown , a Democrat from Ohio, voted against
White’s confirmation as SEC chairman. He told the New Yorker why
he cast that vote: “I believe there is too much bias toward
Wall Street among regulators. At the time, I said I hoped she
would prove me wrong. But I’m still waiting for the S.E.C. to
break from the status quo and demand accountability from the
financial institutions it oversees. It’s time we find watchdogs
outside of the very industry that they are meant to police.”
Amen, brother.  ( William D. Cohan , the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard Freres
& Co., Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Paula Dwyer at 
 pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 