-- Israel Bank Keeps Lending Rate at 1% on Prices, Exports
-- B y   A m y   T e i b e l
-- 2013-11-25T15:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/israel-bank-keeps-lending-rate-at-1-on-prices-exports.html
The  Bank of Israel  kept its
benchmark lending rate at 1 percent for a second month after
inflation quickened and exports picked up.  Twenty-one of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
forecast today’s decision, while three had predicted the five-member monetary panel would trim a quarter point.  Policy makers “will continue to monitor developments in
the Israeli and global economies and in financial markets,
particularly in light of the continuing uncertainty in the
global economy,” the bank said in a statement.  Governor Karnit Flug, in a Nov. 19 speech, said that a
“standstill” in exports contributed to “disappointing” 2.2
percent annualized growth in the third quarter. While exports
fell 16.4 percent during that period, Finance Minister Yair Lapid later said October data and revised figures for September
showed a turnaround. It was the panel’s second decision since
the cabinet approved Flug as governor.  “There was an uptick in exports in October, after a
relatively long period of declining activity, and a revision of
past data, so from that aspect, the picture is a little
better,”  Rafael Gozlan , chief economist at I.B.I. -  Israel 
Brokerage & Investments Ltd., said before the decision.
“Inflation accelerated significantly, and that also affects the
decision, at least in the short run.”  Sales abroad are central to Israel’s economic growth,
accounting for about a third of economic output, the government
has said.  Available Tools  The Bank of Israel cut its key rate three times this year,
including a surprise reduction in September, in a bid to
encourage growth it sees slowing to 3.4 percent next year from
3.6 percent in 2013 on weak exports.  “The Bank will use the tools available to it to achieve
its objectives of  price stability , the encouragement of
employment and growth, and support for the stability of the
financial system, and in this regard will keep a close watch on
developments in the asset markets, including the housing
market,” policy makers said today.  In addition to paring its key rate, the central bank began
buying dollars in April after a two-year break to try to rein in
the shekel, including a total of more than $1.4 billion in
September and October. Even with both efforts, the shekel has
appreciated 8.6 percent in the past year, the best performer
among 31 major currencies Bloomberg tracks. The shekel’s
strength has hurt exports by making goods sold abroad more
expensive and less competitive.  ‘Too Strong’  In October, Lapid said he would work with Flug to weaken
the shekel, which he termed “too strong.” He did not indicate
what measures they might take.  The shekel gained 0.2 percent following the decision, and
was trading at 3.5539 to the dollar at 5:38 p.m. in  Tel Aviv .  While annual inflation accelerated in October to 1.8
percent from 1.3 percent the month before, it remains near the
midpoint of the government’s target range, giving the central
bank room to lower borrowing costs further if needed.  “The inflation environment remains low, despite the
greater than expected increase in the CPI for October,” the
bank said. “The rate of inflation over the past 12 months was
near the midpoint of the target, and a decline in inflation
expectations for the coming year is observed.”  The risk is that lower costs might send housing prices even
higher, after a 72 percent jump between 2007 and 2012, without
guaranteeing the shekel would weaken.  “Important data support another cut, the slowdown we’re
hearing about, and declining exports,” said Eytan Admoni,
manager of the financial markets department at the  Bank of
Jerusalem (JBNK) , calling the recent rise in exports “marginal.” He
had expected the rate would remain steady “because they’re
afraid of the insanity in the housing prices.”  Admoni, anticipating that economic data going forward will
not improve, said the bank will cut its key rate again in
December or January. “People are getting laid off and that will
be a burden,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Teibel in  Jerusalem  at 
 ateibel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  