-- Jefferies Exits Metals Trading on LME Floor After 14 Months
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-11-25T17:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/jefferies-withdraws-from-trading-on-lme-floor-after-14-months.html
Jefferies Group Inc., which said
last year it wanted to be among the top five brokers on the
 London  Metal Exchange, stopped trading on the floor of the
world’s biggest industrial-metals marketplace after 14 months.  Jefferies Bache Ltd. is now a Category 2 member, the LME
said today in a notice to members, meaning it is limited to
dealing electronically and by telephone. Other Category 2
members include Barclays Plc and Natixis SA, which stopped
trading on the LME floor last year.  The change leaves 10 companies including JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Societe Generale SA entitled to trade on the LME floor,
known as the ring. Transactions taking place in the ring account
for about 5 percent of volume, excluding phone trades that are
based on ring prices, according to the exchange. Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. pledged to maintain floor trading
until at least January 2015 when it bought the LME last year.  “The ring is clearly struggling,” said Wiktor Bielski, an
analyst at VTB Capital in London with more than 30 years of
experience in metals and mining. “In the old days, ring-dealing
membership was highly sought after. Now, with screen-based
trading having taken over so much, you’ve got to think that
unless you are really 100 percent committed to physical, it’s
hard to justify paying the fees.”  Market Share  Ring-dealing members pay an annual fee of 55,000 pounds
($89,000), before expenses to maintain a floor staff. Running a
ring-dealing team may cost 2 million to 4 million pounds a year,
according to estimates by Mo Ahmadzadeh, a managing partner at
Southold Capital in New York.  Electronic trading accounts for as much as 40 percent of
LME volume and phone orders have a share of as much as 50
percent, according to the exchange. The proportion of
transactions conducted in the ring has remained “more or less
the same” since 2009 and the LME has no plans to shut down ring
trading, spokeswoman Miriam Heywood said by phone.  “We are very committed to growing the LME business, but we
need to be open-minded to the fact that the industry is
changing,” Marc Bailey, president of Jefferies Bache in London,
said today. Electronic trading “continues to seize market
share,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Open Outcry  The LME, founded in 1877, accounts for more than 80 percent
of global metal-futures trading and operates London’s last open-outcry trading floor. Prices used as a benchmark by producers,
consumers and merchants are established during the second daily
ring session. Open-outcry allows brokers to handle larger
volumes at the same time. Some simultaneous buying and selling
of contracts for different delivery dates, known as carry
trades, can be done faster and in bigger amounts in the ring.  “I don’t see it as a knockout blow to the ring,”
Ahmadzadeh said by phone. “Clearly this is not positive for
ring trading, but to the extent that carry business and
settlements are most effectively executed on the floor, I would
expect the ring to continue to serve that purpose.”  The International Petroleum Exchange and the London
International Financial Futures & Options Exchange already shut
dealing pits. ICE Futures U.S. ended floor trading of
commodities including cotton in 2008 after 128 years.  Eurex, CME  “We can’t stand still,” LME Chief Executive Officer Garry Jones said Oct. 8 in a speech. “If you look at, for example,
when Liffe lost the Bund contract to Eurex, it was all about
electronic trading. The closing of many of the pits of the CME
really revolutionized that market. And ICE’s success is largely
based on going into markets and changing the way they operate.”  Commerzbank AG and Merrill Lynch International are among
the LME’s 31 members in Category 2, a total that includes
Jefferies Bache, the exchange’s website shows. The LME rulebook
has no stipulation for a minimum number of Category 1 members,
Heywood said by phone.  “As long as there is sufficient volume and liquidity
transacted across the ring, an effective price-discovery process
will be maintained,” she said.  Jefferies was a Category 2 member until Sept. 5, 2012, when
it began trading on the floor after hiring Michael Frawley to
lead its metals desk and doubling its metals staff to about 50
people. Jefferies Bache aimed to rank among the exchange’s five
largest brokers by transaction volume, spokesman Richard Kahleel
said that month.  Frawley left Jefferies last month, according to two people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because
the information is private. Jefferies was acquired by New York-based  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  