-- Karzai Resists Signing U.S. Accord as Susan Rice Visits
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-11-25T16:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/karzai-resists-signing-u-s-accord-as-susan-rice-visits.html
Afghan President Hamid Karzai
continued to resist U.S. demands to sign a security accord
before April presidential elections, as U.S. National Security
Adviser Susan Rice traveled to  Afghanistan  to meet with him.  “The U.S. waited for two years, but can’t wait for only
five months more -- why are they in a hurry?” Karzai said
yesterday in Kabul after about 2,500 tribal elders,
intellectuals and politicians endorsed the deal and urged him to
act without delay. “After we are assured we have guaranteed
peace and security in the whole country, and secure elections, I
will sign it.”  With U.S. officials expressing increasing frustration with
Karzai’s shifting demands and delaying tactics, he’s receiving a
visit today from Rice, President  Barack Obama ’s top foreign
policy adviser. Rice’s trip to visit troops and officials was
previously planned, and she is meeting Karzai at his invitation,
the White House said today in a statement.  Karzai’s delay threatens to torpedo a deal that would keep
some U.S. troops in Afghanistan beyond 2014, jeopardizing
billions of dollars in aid money and threatening an increase in
violence throughout the region. Obama wants the deal concluded
by year’s end to have enough time to plan for an extended
military presence.  ‘Short Order’  “I can’t imagine a more compelling affirmation from the
Afghan people themselves of their commitment to a long-term
partnership with the United States and our international
partners,” U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said in a
statement commenting on the assembly’s action.  He said the
“critical next step” is to get the agreement signed in “short
order.”  U.S. patience with Karzai’s demands is wearing thin,
according to an American official. With the endorsement
yesterday, it’s time for the Afghan government to make a final
decision, said the official, who asked not to be identified
discussing the state of U.S.-Afghan relations.  The proposed agreement would let some U.S. forces stay to
train Afghan soldiers and conduct counterterrorism operations
after combat troops leave by the end of next year. The U.S. now
has 48,000 troops in the country, and the coalition of allies
has an additional 27,000, according to the  U.S. Defense
Department .  “We can’t possibly have further U.S. military presence
there without an agreement in place,” Jay Carney, Obama’s
spokesman, told reporters on Nov. 22. Earlier that day, Karzai
spokesman Aimal Faizi said no U.S. deadline is acceptable.  Loya Jirga  Sibghatullah Mojaddedi, a former president heading the
assembly known as a loya jirga, called on Karzai to quickly sign
the agreement.  The security pact was “endorsed by the members,”
Mojaddedi said yesterday. “The president must give us promises
he would sign it sooner because the pact will benefit the
country.”  The Taliban condemned the loya jirga’s endorsement and
vowed to increase the fervor of their insurgency.  Afghanistan will “truly become the graveyard of
international arrogance,”  Zabihullah Mujahid , a spokesman for
the militants, said in an e-mailed statement today.  In his speech, Karzai again criticized the U.S. for
operations in Afghan homes. The agreement would be broken if the
operations in homes are conducted “once more,” he said.  Obama said in a  Nov. 20 letter  to Karzai that U.S. troops
will conduct raids on Afghan homes only “under extraordinary
circumstances involving urgent risk to life and limb of U.S.
nationals.”  Nine Bases  The agreement would provide the U.S. with access to nine
bases at Kabul, Bagram, Mazar-e-Sharif, Herat, Kandahar,
Helmand, Gardez, Jalalabad and Shindand. While allowing the
bases is “very hard emotionally and rationally,” Karzai said,
the country is obliged to do so given the current volatile
security situation.  In a separate e-mail the Taliban yesterday sought to
reassure  India ,  China  and  Russia  that a withdrawal of U.S.
troops wouldn’t threaten regional stability. Instead, the group
said the U.S. presence is the source of conflict, according to a
statement.  “We are unequivocally opposed to any American military
presence in Afghanistan and we will continue our armed struggle
until Afghanistan regains its full sovereignty and all foreign
military forces leave our country,” Mujahid said in the
statement.  Karzai said yesterday he is concerned that his legacy may
suffer should the agreement fail to provide security. Term
limits bar him from standing for election again and extending
his 12 years as Afghanistan’s leader.  “If I sign it today and tomorrow we don’t have peace, who
would be blamed by history?” Karzai said. “So that is why I am
asking for assurances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  