-- Karzai Adds to Demands on U.S. in Meeting With Susan Rice
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-11-25T23:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/karzai-repeats-demands-on-u-s-after-meeting-with-rice.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  added
to the demands he said must be met before he’ll sign an
agreement permitting some U.S. forces to remain in his country
after the end of next year.  In a dinner meeting yesterday in Kabul with U.S. National
Security Adviser  Susan Rice , Karzai insisted that the U.S.
release Afghan inmates from the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
as a condition for the Bilateral Security Agreement, according
to a Persian-language statement e-mailed by his office.  U.S. officials have been frustrated by Karzai’s shifting
demands, even after a council of 2,500 tribal elders endorsed
the draft agreement over the weekend, and by the delay he’s
seeking in signing the pact until after Afghanistan’s
presidential election in April.  “Karzai outlined new conditions for signing the agreement
and indicated he is not prepared to sign the BSA promptly,”
according to a statement issued by the White House describing
Rice’s meeting at the presidential palace.  Without a “prompt signature, the U.S. would have no choice
but to initiate planning” to withdraw all troops from
Afghanistan, Rice told the Afghan leader, according to the
statement. Under an agreement, the U.S. would keep some forces
to train the Afghan military and conduct counterterrorism
operations after combat troops depart by the end of next year.  In her first meeting with the Afghan president, Rice told
Karzai “that we have concluded negotiations and that deferring
the signature of the agreement until after next year’s elections
is not viable,” according to the White House statement.  Assurances Sought  The Afghan president sought assurances from President
 Barack Obama  for a “complete cessation” of U.S. and allied
counterterrorism raids on Afghan homes as well as the holding of
“transparent elections” before he’ll sign the agreement,
according to the statement from his office.  The delay threatens to torpedo the deal, jeopardizing
billions of dollars in aid and threatening an increase in
violence throughout the region.  Karzai told the tribal council in Kabul over the weekend:
“The U.S. waited for two years, but can’t wait for only five
months more -- why are they in a hurry?”  Afghanistan’s presidential elections are scheduled for
April 5. “After we are assured we have guaranteed peace and
security in the whole country, and secure elections, I will sign
it,” Karzai said on Nov. 24.  ‘Compelling Affirmation’  “I can’t imagine a more compelling affirmation from the
Afghan people themselves of their commitment to a long-term
partnership with the  United States  and our international
partners,” U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said in a
statement commenting on the endorsement of the agreement by the
tribal assembly known as a loya jirga.  He said the “critical
next step” is to get the agreement signed in “short order.”  U.S. patience with Karzai’s demands is wearing thin,
according to an American official, who asked not to be
identified discussing the state of U.S.-Afghan relations.  The U.S. now has 48,000 troops in the country, and the
coalition of allies has an additional 27,000, according to the
U.S. Defense Department.  Sibghatullah Mojaddedi, a former president who headed the
loya jirga, called on Karzai to sign the agreement quickly.  The security pact was “endorsed by the members,”
Mojaddedi said. “The president must give us promises he would
sign it sooner because the pact will benefit the country.”  Nine Bases  The agreement would provide the U.S. with access to nine
bases at Kabul, Bagram, Mazar-e-Sharif, Herat, Kandahar,
Helmand, Gardez, Jalalabad and Shindand. While allowing the
bases is “very hard emotionally and rationally,” Karzai said,
the country is obliged to do so given the current volatile
security situation.  The Taliban condemned the loya jirga’s endorsement and
vowed to increase the fervor of their insurgency.  Afghanistan will “truly become the graveyard of
international arrogance,”  Zabihullah Mujahid , a spokesman for
the militants, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  In his speech to the loya jirga, Karzai again criticized
the U.S. for operations in Afghan homes. The agreement would be
broken if the operations in homes are conducted “once more,”
he said.  Obama said in a Nov. 20 letter to Karzai that U.S. troops
will conduct raids on Afghan homes only “under extraordinary
circumstances involving urgent risk to life and limb of U.S.
nationals.”  Karzai said on Nov. 24 that he’s concerned that his legacy
may suffer if the agreement fails to provide security.  Term
limits  bar him from running for election again after 12 years as
 Afghanistan ’s leader.  “If I sign it today, and tomorrow we don’t have peace, who
would be blamed by history?” Karzai said. “So that is why I am
asking for assurances.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  