-- N.Y. Legislature Sues to Void Corruption Probe Subpoenas
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-11-25T19:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/n-y-legislature-sues-to-void-corruption-probe-subpoenas.html
New York’s legislature sued to
cancel subpoenas issued by an anti-corruption commission formed
in July by Governor  Andrew Cuomo , saying their only purpose was
to harass lawmakers.  The 55-year-old Democratic governor formed the commission
after failing to strike a deal with lawmakers on a package of
anti-corruption legislation. The state Senate and Assembly have
since refused to turn over information about clients and
compensation of lawmakers who earn more than $20,000 a year in
nongovernment jobs. The subpoenas followed their refusal.  The two houses sued in state Supreme Court in  Manhattan  on
Nov. 22, asking the court to quash the subpoenas on the ground
they “serve no legitimate purpose other than to harass and
usurp power from the legislature and its members.”  The subpoenas are unlawful because they were “issued to
further the governor’s efforts to coerce the passage of certain
legislation” and violate the state’s separation-of-powers
doctrine, the legislature said in the filing.  “The two statutes the governor purported to rely on to
empower the commission to conduct its investigation do not
authorize the commission to issue the subpoenas challenged here;
and the commission failed to follow a mandatory procedural
requirement that was a prerequisite to issuing the subpoenas,”
according to the filing.  Commissioners Deputized  Cuomo told reporters on a conference call today that the
commissioners were deputized by Attorney General Eric
Schneiderman, giving them powers outside those typical of a
commission, including the right to investigate the legislature.  “When it issues a subpoena, it issues a subpoena as the
Moreland Commission and the attorney general,” Cuomo said. “If
your position is that the attorney general can’t subpoena the
legislature -- that would neuter the attorney general’s
office.”  The commission’s leaders, Nassau County District Attorney
Kathleen Rice, Onondaga County District Attorney  William
Fitzpatrick  and lawyer Milton Williams Jr., said Nov. 22 that
they have full legal authority to proceed with the probe.  “It should be noted that a significant number of employers
of both Assembly members and senators who were asked for
information are cooperating,” the three chairmen said in a
statement. “We had hoped everyone would work together but they
did not. We are confident we will prevail in court.”  ‘Illegal’ Use  State Senator Dean Skelos, the Republican co-majority
leader, said in a statement last week that the subpoenas are an
attempt to threaten the legislature and are an “improper and
illegal” use of executive authority.  Skelos said the state Senate is “committed to fighting
public corruption” and is open to ideas for reform, such as an
act passed in 2011 in partnership with the governor that
establishes a database of individuals and firms that appear
before state government entities in a representative capacity.  “Working together, we have accomplished a great deal for
the people of this state,” Skelos said. “However, we won’t
allow an executive to ignore the Constitution or the important
principle of separation of powers.”  The friction between the governor and the legislature is a
break in the relationship that helped Cuomo pass the first three
consecutive on-time budgets since 1984, a law legalizing same-sex marriage, and a mix of tax increases for the state’s
wealthiest residents and cuts for the middle class.  Moreland Act  When Cuomo couldn’t strike a deal on the anti-corruption
legislation, he created the 25-member commission, which is
allowed under the Moreland Act of 1907. The law gives a  New York 
governor broad investigative authority.  The state Republicans’ campaign committee has also filed a
lawsuit seeking to block the subpoenas, along with law firms
such as Harris Beach Pllc and Farrell Fritz PC that employ
legislators.  According to the legislature’s Nov. 22 suit, the commission
sought to “harass, harm and intimidate” lawmakers by sending
subpoenas to their employers, including brokerage firms,
insurers and construction companies, after they refused to
comply with requests for information about their non-legislative
activities.  “Not only are these subpoenas abusive in their scope, the
subpoenas target the legislators’ private business relationships
and finances by seeking information from private parties that
New York law does not permit the governor or his commission to
obtain from the lawmakers themselves,” the legislature said in
a court filing.  The cases are New York State Senate v. Commission to
Investigation Public Corruption, 160935/2013, and New York State
Senate v. Rice, 160941/2013, New York State  Supreme Court , New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York Supreme Court at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  