-- N.Y. Leads With $66.5 Billion Unfunded Retiree Cost, S&P Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-11-25T17:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/n-y-leads-with-66-5-billion-unfunded-retiree-cost-s-p-says.html
New York’s $66.5 billion unfunded
obligation for costs such as retiree health care is the largest
among U.S. states as the governments’ combined liability fell
about 3 percent from a 2011 survey, Standard & Poor’s said.  The liability of the third-most-populous state surpassed
that of  California , which has a $65 billion unfinanced burden,
according to an S&P report released today. New Jersey was third
with $64 billion in other post-employment benefits. Oklahoma had
the lowest. States’ collective burden was about $529 billion.
The company said it used the most recent figures available, from
2012 or earlier.  “States have been proactive in addressing this
liability,” the report said. “This is a liability that needs
to be managed over time to prevent it from becoming a source of
credit pressure.”  The governments have looked to cut costs associated with
retirees after the longest recession since the 1930s sapped
their revenue. While pension obligations can’t be altered once
earned in most states, costs associated with benefits such as
retiree health care and life insurance can, S&P said.  Unlike most states, New York considers public-university
benefits a state obligation, raising its burden, S&P said. The
state’s per-capita obligation is $3,397, sixth largest, S&P
said.  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat,
raised the retirement age to 63 from 62 in 2012 and increased
public workers’ contribution rates toward pensions. He also used
labor negotiations in 2011 to boost retirees’ contribution rates
to health care.  Morris Peters, a spokesman for Cuomo’s budget division,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on the
liability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  