-- Namibian Study Shows Tuna Catch Plunges on Oil Exploration
-- B y   F e l i x   N j i n i
-- 2013-11-25T11:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/namibian-study-shows-that-tuna-catch-plunges-on-oil-exploration.html
Oil and gas exploration in  Namibia ’s
southern waters has slashed the nation’s tuna catch, according
to a study commissioned by the government.  The harvest dropped to 650 metric tons so far this year
from 1,800 tons in 2012 and 4,046 tons in 2011, Anna Erastus,
policy planning director at the fisheries and marine resources
ministry, said in the study.  “With increasing amounts of seismic exploration in
Namibian waters recently, tuna catches have dropped,” she said.  Namibia earned $400 million from fish exports in 2012,
according to Paarl, South Africa-based NKC Research. The
industry, along with tourism and mining, is one of the biggest
sources of foreign exchange for the country’s economy.  A group established to investigate the ecological effects
of seismic exploration is recommending that the government
delays a proposed seismic survey for oil and gas in Tripp
Seamount, a main tuna-fishing-ground, situated close to the
South African border. Fishing should be put back until after
March next year to avoid a period where 70 percent of Namibia’s
tuna catch is taken, Erastus said.  An oil and gas exploration company that intends to conduct
seismic exploration early next year is also proposing to do a
survey in South African waters in February, just across the
border, Erastus said, without identifying the company.  “This is in direct path of tuna migrating from South
Africa to Namibian waters,” she said. Sound blasts during
seismic surveys “could send the tuna into avoidance mode, so
that they are not available to be caught by fishing vessels
during what would normally be the height of the pole and line
tuna season.”  Fish Migration  Seismic exploration should be permitted between May and
September when the tuna-fishing-season ends, Erastus said.  Namibia has “alerted South Africa to the seriousness of
the issue,”, requesting the neighboring country consider the
same approach.  “Tuna migrates up through South African waters to Namibia,
and the South African tuna industry is similarly affected,” she
said. A co-ordinated strategy with South Africa is needed or the
“fishing and oil and gas seismic exploration sectors will not
be able to co-exist.”  In Namibia tuna landings are made at the southern port of
Luderitz with the pole-and-line fishing season lasting from
December to May, according to the United Nations Food and
Agriculture Organisation.  About 90 percent of the catch is albacore tuna with the
rest being bigeye, yellowfin and skipjack tuna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felix Njini in Windhoek at 
 fnjini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  