-- Nasdaq’s Trading Chief Noll Leaves Exchange for Job as CEO
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-11-25T23:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/nasdaq-s-trading-chief-eric-noll-is-said-to-leave-exchange-owner.html
Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc.’s  Eric Noll ,
who oversaw the exchange’s U.S. trading business during a period
when its reliability was criticized,  left  the company to become
chief executive officer of ConvergEx Group LLC.  Noll, whose title was executive vice president of U.S. and
U.K. transaction services, had joined the New York-based
exchange owner in 2009. Nasdaq plans to fill his job by the end
of March, according to a statement today.  The executive’s decision comes three months after a
technical malfunction at Nasdaq, the second-biggest U.S. stock
exchange operator, caused a three-hour trading halt for
thousands of companies. Nasdaq’s U.S. market also mishandled
Facebook Inc.’s initial public offering in 2012, prompting a
fine and millions of dollars in claims from investors who said
they lost money.  The departure is a surprise, said  Richard Repetto , an
analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP who covers exchanges.
“He has a lot of credibility, and he was the public face,”
said Repetto, who added that Noll was viewed as Nasdaq CEO
 Robert Greifeld ’s top deputy.  Noll joined New York-based Nasdaq four years ago from
Susquehanna International Group LLP. Nasdaq’s share price has
about doubled since then,  twice  the gain in the Bloomberg World
Exchanges Index of 26 bourse operators.  Noll’s Deputies  During Noll’s tenure, the company continued to expand
beyond its original business of trading U.S. equities. This
year, Nasdaq got into the Treasuries market with the $750
million purchase of ESpeed.  Nasdaq is “reviewing our strong bench of internal
candidates as well as external candidates” to replace Noll,
Greifeld said in a message sent to clients today.  Noll’s deputies at Nasdaq included Thomas Wittman, who was
promoted to run U.S. equities this year;  Charlotte  Crosswell,
CEO of futures market Nasdaq OMX NLX; and Joe Noviello, who
manages strategy for ESpeed.  This wasn’t the first change in senior management at Nasdaq
this year. Less than a month ago, Nasdaq said Bradley Peterson,
its global chief information officer, would report directly to
Greifeld instead of one of his deputies, Anna Ewing.  Peterson’s promotion reflected further evolution in the
role of Ewing, who was chief information officer before Peterson
was hired from Charles Schwab Corp. in February. She, along with
Greifeld and Noll, had her cash compensation  reduced  after the
 Facebook IPO  in May 2012.  ‘Great Opportunity’  ConvergEx, which provides trading services to institutional
investors, withdrew plans earlier this year for an IPO filed in
early 2011. A sale agreement that year with CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. was terminated amid a regulatory probe of trading practices
at ConvergEx’s Bermuda subsidiary.  ConvergEx said Noll joined the company immediately as
president, and will transition to the CEO job by the end of
2013, according to a statement. The current CEO, Joseph Velli,
will stay on the ConvergEx board.  “It’s a great opportunity, and the company has a great
opportunity for growth,” Noll said during an interview today,
referring to ConvergEx. “It’s a cutting-edge platform. It has a
global client base.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  