-- New Jersey Casinos ‘Inundated’ With Online Players in Test
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-11-25T22:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/new-jersey-casinos-inundated-with-online-players-in-test.html
New Jersey, which began testing
online gambling last week, has been “inundated” with players
trying to sign up, the state’s top gaming regulator said.  More than 10,000 people registered to gamble in the first
three days starting Nov. 21, David Rebuck, director of the
state’s Division of Gaming Enforcement, said on a conference
call with reporters today.  Six casinos, including the Tropicana  Atlantic City , the
Trump Taj Mahal, the Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa and two
properties of  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , have been approved to
offer online wagers to residents and visitors starting at
midnight tonight. They will operate under 13 websites, Rebuck
said. New Jersey becomes the third and most-populous state to
allow online gambling, joining Nevada and  Delaware .  “We’re definitely very happy with the sign-ups,” Mitch Garber, chief executive officer of Caesars’ interactive
division, said in a telephone interview. The results were
especially encouraging given that operators hadn’t begun
marketing yet and some would-be customers had trouble
registering, he said.  People looking to register for play have had their credit
cards rejected, Rebuck said. State officials are working with
banks to let them know that Internet wagering is legal in the
state, he said. There have also been complaints about people in
 New Jersey  being denied access because casino software
identified them as not being physically present in the state.  Rebuck said his office was in talks with companies that
provide software to identify players’ locations to improve the
systems. The state has set high standards for operators and
intends to maintain them, he said.  “I’m unwilling to put the state at risk of having an easy
access of out-of-staters breaking into our systems here,”
Rebuck said.  Golden Nugget Atlantic City, a unit of Houston-based
Landry’s Inc., has been restricted to limited play until it
works out some technology issues, Rebuck said. The six approved
operators may conduct business on a 24-hour basis.  Some 75 new companies have been authorized to operate
online in the state, including payment processors and technology
providers, Rebuck said. About 240 games have been approved.  Customer registrations have occurred throughout the state,
although they are heavily concentrated in more populated
regions, such as in the suburbs outside of  New York  and
Philadelphia, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  