-- Newtown Shooter Obsessed With Columbine Rampage, Report Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-11-25T21:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/newtown-shooter-obsessed-with-columbine-killings-report-says.html
Adam Lanza, who killed 20 first-graders and six educators at a Newtown, Connecticut, elementary
school last year, was obsessed with the April 1999 shooting at
Columbine High in  Colorado , according to a prosecutor’s report.  There was no evidence of a motive in the rampage, Stephen
Sedensky III, the state’s attorney for Danbury, said in the
report released today, almost a year after the Dec. 14
shootings. Lanza had “significant mental health issues” that
kept him from living a normal life, though practitioners who saw
him had no indication he would kill, according to the report.  “He had familiarity with and access to firearms and
ammunition and an obsession with mass murders, in particular the
April 1999 shootings at Columbine High School in Colorado,”
according to the report. “Investigators, however, have not
discovered any evidence that the shooter voiced or gave any
indication to others that he intended to commit such a crime
himself.”  Until today’s report, investigators hadn’t provided details
on Lanza’s mental-health records, the police response to the
shooting and clues to a motive. Sedensky is fighting in court to
keep recordings of the 911 calls from being made public.  The shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School brought
international attention to the town of 28,000 about 78 miles
(126 kilometers) northeast of New York City. It led states from
 California  to New York to tighten gun regulations. A similar
push by President  Barack Obama , which included help from parents
of the slain children, failed by six votes in the U.S. Senate in
April.  12/14 Remembered  In Newtown, the day of the deadliest U.S. massacre since
the 2007 rampage at Virginia Tech University is remembered
simply as 12/14 -- in the way that 9/11 has become shorthand for
the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Residents seeking to
move beyond the shooting voted last month to demolish the
elementary school in Sandy Hook, a village that’s within
Newtown’s jurisdiction. A new school building will be built on
the site. Students have been attending class in neighboring
Monroe.  Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy said he hopes the report
will help prevent similar acts of violence.  “If there is one thing I believe we must do, it’s that we
must honor the lives that were lost by taking  steps to protect
ourselves from another horror like this,”  Malloy said in a
statement.  154 Shots  In March, Sedensky said the Bushmaster .223 caliber model
XM15 rifle used by Lanza had a 30-round capacity magazine. The
20-year-old shooter used a single shot from a Glock 10mm handgun
to kill himself before police arrived and had a 9mm Sig Sauer
P226 handgun with him, Sedensky said. It took Lanza less than
five minutes to shoot his way into the school and fire 154 shots
from the Bushmaster on his way to gunning down the children, the
staff and finally himself, Sedensky said.  The guns, which also included a 12-gauge shotgun found in
Lanza’s car, were all purchased by Lanza’s mother, Nancy Lanza,
Sedensky said in the March statement, when warrant returns were
unsealed in court. Lanza killed his mother in their home before
heading to the elementary school.  Social Impairment  Today’s report sketched a picture of a young man diagnosed
with Asperger’s disorder in 2005 who, starting in seventh grade,
withdrew from playing baseball, soccer and the saxophone. After
showing signs of the social impairments and extreme anxiety
associated with the disorder, Lanza refused medication and
therapy.  In the house he shared with his mother, the windows were
taped and covered with black trash bags in Lanza’s bedroom and a
computer room on the second-floor, the report said.
Investigators found a spread sheet of mass shootings over the
years, and materials that indicated the obsession with
Columbine. That shooting on April 20, 1999, left 12 students and
a teacher dead. The two student shooters also killed themselves.  On computer hard drives and memory cards, investigators
found pictures of people killing themselves with guns and
rifles. They also found evidence of a computer game titled
“School Shooting” having been played. In the game, a player
controls a character who enters a school and kills students.  Movie Games  On the weekends, Lanza would go to a local movie theater,
sometimes with an acquaintance, and play “Dance Dance
Revolution” for four to 10 hours at a time, the report said.
The game requires participants to press on pads with their feet
to follow dance moves on a screen. He would routinely wear a
grey hooded sweatshirt and black slacks for the outings.  “The shooter had stamina for DDR and never appeared winded
unless really exhausted,” an acquaintance told law-enforcement
officials, the report said.  After a snowstorm in 2011, Lanza stopped going to the
theater to play the game, it said. When he returned in February
2012, he seemed more anti-social and no longer played the game
with others, according to the report.  Later on in high school, teachers described him as
increasingly withdrawn, though there were no signs he was
bullied. His mother told acquaintances that he wouldn’t touch
door knobs and was obsessed with changing his clothes.  “It is important to note that it is unknown, what
contribution, if any, the shooter’s mental-health issues made to
his attack,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  