-- Oaktree Said to Start $1 Billion Partnership With Cinda
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-11-25T20:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/oaktree-said-to-start-1-billion-partnership-with-cinda.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the
world’s biggest distressed-debt investor, is joining with the
Chinese government-backed  China  Cinda Asset Management Co. to
buy soured loans and troubled assets in Asia’s biggest economy.  The venture will be equally owned by Oaktree and Cinda,
according to a statement today. The firms plan to invest as much
as $1 billion, with half of the money coming from funds run by
Los Angeles-based Oaktree, and may increase that amount
depending on the success of the deals, said a person familiar
with the agreement, who requested anonymity because those
details aren’t public.  Carissa Felger, a spokeswoman for Oaktree at public-relations firm Sard Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on the
commitment plans.  Oaktree sees “tremendous bargains” in China, the second-biggest economy behind the U.S., and is buying stocks in
companies after valuations tumbled,  Howard Marks , the firm’s co-founder and chairman, said this month in  Shanghai . China’s
growth is slowing as the ruling Communist Party curbs an
unprecedented $1.5 trillion lending boom that sent residential
real estate prices to all-time highs and imposed record
liabilities on local municipalities.  “Investors have lost all confidence in China,” Marks said
at the Nov. 4 media briefing. “The swings of the pendulum were
excessive,” he said, referring to investor pessimism following
the optimism he perceived three years ago.  Expanding Teams  Oaktree was approached six weeks ago by investment bankers
seeking a partnership for Cinda, which specializes in distressed
real estate and also buys soured corporate loans and other
assets under financial pressure, according to the person with
knowledge of the process. Oaktree plans to expand its  staff  in
Beijing, dedicate some of its teams in the U.S. and  London  to
deals with Cinda, and will relocate a senior real estate
dealmaker to  Hong Kong , the person said.  Cinda, formed in 1999 and majority-owned by the Chinese
Ministry of Finance, is preparing to sell shares to the public
in Hong Kong. Oaktree made a $53 million investment in the
company as one of several early backers, according to the
person.  “Cinda’s experience and expertise in China is unparalleled
and will afford us a unique opportunity to participate in
China’s distressed-debt markets,”  John Frank , Oaktree’s
managing principal, said in the statement today. “At the same
time, we look forward to sharing our global insights and
expertise with Cinda.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  