-- Obamacare Fiasco Erodes Government as Problem-Solver Idea
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T a c k e t t
-- 2013-11-25T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/obamacare-fiasco-erodes-government-as-problem-solver-idea.html
When  Barack Obama  was elected
president in 2008, voters were not merely choosing a candidate
they found more compelling. They also were endorsing a renewal
of the notion that government could be a force for good.  The flawed rollout of Obamacare, his signature legislative
achievement, is testing that premise, giving Republicans a
chance to re-litigate the role of government and Democrats pause
that the damage could lead to congressional losses.  At stake is whether Obama loses more than the triumph of
expanding health insurance by allowing Republicans to claim
 Ronald Reagan  was right in his 1981 inaugural speech when he
said: “In this present crisis, government is not the solution
to our problem; government is the problem.”  “This plays right into that argument,” said  Evan Bayh , a
former Democratic senator from  Indiana  who voted for the
Affordable Care Act. “So, do people think there is an
appropriate role for government? Absolutely. Does the botched
rollout of the ACA undermine that because it harms the
government’s credibility for effectiveness? Yes it does.”  The first evidence of which side will prevail in the debate
will come in the 2014 fight for control of the  U.S. Senate .
Republicans need a net gain of six seats to retake the chamber;
all the Democratic incumbents running for re-election supported
the health-care law, and the governing philosophy underlying it.  2016 Impact  The Affordable Care Act’s start has been so shaky that
Democrats are expressing concern the impact may bleed into the
2016 presidential campaign, giving Republicans a chance to reset
the balance in the country in their favor and possibly undo the
health- insurance  program.  “It is a massive cultural inflection point right now,
particularly for a group of young voters who were invited onto
the political scene by President Obama,” said Representative
Peter Roskam, an Illinois Republican. “And, ironically, part of
what was so attractive was that this was private sector, tech-savvy, sophisticated marketing and highly interactive. All the
things that made the campaign a success are in stark contrast to
Obamacare,” he said.  “There’s another overlay on this and it is this notion of
comprehensive anything,” Roskam said. “‘Comprehensive’ is now
an adjective that is being tarnished. It’s become suspect. It’s
the lack of the ability of the federal government to be
comprehensive about anything.”  Active Government  Since Presidents  Franklin Roosevelt ’s New Deal and  Lyndon Johnson ’s Great Society programs, the  Democratic Party  has been
associated with using the federal government as an instrument
for achieving parity and equality in American life.  Reagan altered that dynamic and began an era where
Republicans emphasized markets and limited government, a message
that resonated in the South and West and transformed political
alliances to his party’s benefit.  It affected Democrats as well. President  Bill Clinton ,
speaking after two partial government shutdowns in the 1990s and
his own failed effort to expand health-care coverage, said in
his 1996  State of the Union  address that the “era of big
government is over.”  Yet Clinton, driven more by political realities than a
change in philosophy, added, “but we cannot go back to a time
when our citizens were left to fend for themselves.”  Obama, mindful that Clinton was just the most recent
Democratic president since  Harry Truman  to try to expand health
coverage, worked to meld a public-private approach. That added
layers of complication to the program, with multiple computer
systems, government agencies and private companies seeking to
coordinate as never before.  Unpopular Law  So far, Americans aren’t pleased. Only 40 percent of them
approve of the law and 55 percent disapprove, according to a
Gallup  Poll  published Nov. 14. In a  survey  released Nov. 18, a
record 56 percent of adults said it wasn’t the federal
government’s responsibility to make sure all Americans have
health insurance. In 2006, 69 percent said it was the
government’s obligation.  In 2008, exit  polls  showed 51 percent of voters wanted the
government to do more -- and Obama won 76 percent of that group
-- while 43 percent said government was doing too much. In 2012,
those numbers were  reversed .  “What people wanted is practical solutions to problems in
their everyday lives,” said Bayh, who decided not to seek re-election in 2010. “What people were most concerned about in the
first quarter of 2009 was the economy. Yet that isn’t what was
put at the head of the policy agenda. My own party emphasized
social equality more than economic growth.”  Jobs Focus  Obama’s pollster, Joel Benenson, released a report to
Democrats on Nov. 19 urging them to focus on jobs and the
economy. He said  his survey  showed voters were dispirited by the
government shutdown in October and the focus on the flaws of
Obamacare.  His poll found that 39 percent of all voters, and 23
percent of independents, agreed with the statement, “The way to
get our country back on track is to get government out of the
way and unleash the power of businesses and markets to create
jobs by lowering taxes and eliminating needless regulations.”  Fifty-nine percent of all voters, and 65 percent of
independents, agreed with the alternate choice that “the way to
get our country back on track is to get the public and private
sector working together to invest in manufacturing, technology,
small businesses and education to create jobs our country needs
and train our children to succeed in the new economy.”  Poor Messaging  Some Democrats, such as  Michael Dukakis , the Democratic
presidential nominee in 1988 and a former governor of
 Massachusetts , said the issue for Obamacare is in part one of
framing.  Democrats “have not done a very good job” of emphasizing
that the law benefits working families most, Dukakis said.
“There are a lot of middle class folks with no health insurance
or very poor health insurance.”  “If you ask Republicans whether working Americans should
have decent affordable health care, they would say yes,” he
said.  Dukakis, who now teaches at  Northeastern University  in
 Boston , said the Massachusetts health-care system, the model for
Obamacare, is “working beautifully” after dealing with startup
problems, and the national system can, too.  Representative  Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said
Republicans will fail if they try to exploit the flawed rollout,
citing their unsuccessful efforts to privatize  Social Security 
and the popularity of federal programs such as Medicare and the
interstate highway system.  Republican Approach  “The scale of Social Security is immense,” Levin said.
“The scale of Medicare is immense. The federal highway program
is immense. Ironically, the ACA is built on the use of the
private health-care structure and it’s turning out to be really
complicated. The notion of building health-care reform on the
private health-care system with an individual mandate goes back
to the Republican approach,” he said.  “To say it’s a government takeover, that’s not true,”
Levin said. “It was a blend of public and private
involvement.”  The halting beginning of such a broad-scale program has
prompted criticism of Obama as a manager in addition to the
carping from Republicans about government bungling.  “Obama ran the most effectively organized campaign in
modern political history, but he didn’t bring any of that
capacity into government,” said Paul Light, a professor of
public service and governance at  New York University .  “Effective managers don’t just make empty promises and
then move on,” Light said. “That’s why Obama is drifting
downward. He’s made promises on this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Tackett in Washington at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  