-- Obama Aides Brief U.S. Jewish Leaders on Iran Agreement
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-11-25T21:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/obama-aides-brief-u-s-jewish-leaders-on-iran-agreement.html
Obama administration officials
briefed representatives of the U.S. Jewish community in an
attempt to address their questions about a deal to ease some
sanctions on  Iran .  During the hour long conference call today, representatives
of groups including the Anti-Defamation League and the American
 Israel  Public Affairs Committee expressed concern that the six-month agreement would give Iran time to move ahead with
development of a nuclear weapon, according to one of the
participants.  “The real test is implementation, to see what they are
going to do to live up to this,” said Malcolm Hoenlein,
executive vice chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major
American Jewish Organizations, who was on the call. “We
expressed concern they will use this as they have in the past
just to have cover.”  President  Barack Obama  and his aides are trying to stave
off action by Congress to impose additional sanctions on Iran
while the agreement, crafted by the U.S. and other world powers,
is in effect, arguing that fresh penalties would undermine the
international consensus on dealing with the Persian Gulf nation.  In a speech today in  California , Obama said the deal would
put in place “the first real constraints in a decade on Iran’s
nuclear program.”  “Huge challenges remain, but we cannot close the door on
diplomacy,” he said.  Lobbying Power  Support from Jewish and pro-Israel groups in the U.S. is
important because of their history of political influence.
Organizations such as Aipac have long pressed for policies to
support Israel, mobilizing activists who visit or call
lawmakers. Those efforts are supplemented by several political
action committees that donate to candidates depending on their
support for Israel.  The pro-Israel community made $16.1 million in campaign
contributions for the 2012 elections, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group.
That’s more the defense aerospace industry, which includes
contractors such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA) 
Employees working in that industry donated $11.1 million for
2012.  In a memo released today, Aipac said there are “serious
concerns” about being able to reach a final accord that would
ensure Iran doesn’t acquire a nuclear weapon, though it stopped
short of urging immediate new sanctions. It called for lawmakers
to set clear consequences “should  Iran violate this agreement
or fail to agree to an acceptable final deal.”  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has called the
deal “an historic mistake.”  In a second round of conference calls today, Deputy
National Security Adviser Tony Blinken and David S. Cohen,
Treasury undersecretary for terrorism and financial
intelligence, are scheduled to talk with representatives of the
Jewish Federations of North America and the Jewish Council for
Public Affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net  