-- Obama Says It’s Up to Republicans to Fix Broken Immigration Laws
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2013-11-25T20:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/obama-says-it-s-up-to-republicans-to-fix-broken-immigration-laws.html
President  Barack Obama  urged the
Republican-led U.S. House to pass changes to immigration law,
focusing on an issue that may benefit his party as the flawed
rollout of his health-care law hurts his popularity.  “It’s up to Republicans in the House to decide if we can
move forward as a country on this bill,” Obama said in a speech
today in San Francisco, calling the nation’s immigration system
“broken.”  Sixty-three percent of Americans favor providing a way for
the nation’s 11 million undocumented immigrants to become
citizens, provided they meet certain requirements, according to
a poll released today by the Public Religion Research Institute.
That number, which includes majorities of both Republicans and
Democrats, matches a  March  survey from the Washington-based
group that studies public opinion.  The Democratic-led Senate in June passed with bipartisan
support an immigration measure that included a path to
citizenship. House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican ,
said Nov. 13 that he has “no intention” of considering the
comprehensive Senate bill and instead preferred a piecemeal
approach.  Obama said he’s “hopeful” about making progress on the
measure, and would back Boehner’s step-by-step approach “as
long as all the pieces get done.”  “I believe the speaker is sincere,” the president told a
crowd in San Francisco’s Chinatown. “I think he generally wants
to get it done.”  The Senate legislation would boost average annual gross
domestic product growth by a projected 0.3 percentage points
during the next 20 years, according to a Congressional Budget
Office estimate  cited  by the White House. The CBO also said that
enacting the bill would reduce the  federal budget  by almost $850
billion in 20 years.  Immigration Overshadowed  The president is seeking to pressure Congress to act as the
issue of immigration has been overshadowed by the partial
government shutdown in October and the flawed rollout of the
enrollment website for the president’s health-care expansion.  A CNN/ORC  poll  released today showed that 53 percent of
Americans disagree that Obama is honest and trustworthy, the
highest percentage during his five years in office. Just 40
percent said Obama can manage the government effectively,
according to the poll. The telephone survey of 843 adults was
conducted Nov. 18-20 and has a margin of error of 3.5 percentage
points.  Obama is in the second day of a three-day West Coast trip.
In addition to the speech today, the president is attending
seven fundraisers to help Democrats with 2014 election contests.  At the Seattle home of former Microsoft president and chief
operating officer Jon Shirley yesterday, Obama told donors that
immigration remained among his top priorities.  ‘Can’t Afford’  “The American people can’t afford to wait in perpetuity
for us to grow faster, create more jobs, strengthen our middle
class, clean our environment, fix our immigration system,”
Obama said.  Earlier this month, Obama enlisted a group of business
executives, including  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  Chief Executive Officer
Donald Thompson and  Blackstone Group LP CEO  Stephen Schwarzman ,
to put pressure on congressional Republicans to pass an
immigration law by year’s end.  A report commissioned by the  Republican National Committee 
after the 2012 election losses encouraged the party to boost its
voter engagement among racial and ethnic minorities including
Hispanics, who supported Obama’s re-election with 71 percent of
their vote, according to national exit polls. Republicans within
Congress advocating a revision of immigration laws contend that
it will be necessary to compete with Democrats in the 2016
presidential election.  Bipartisan Support  In the PRRI poll today, roughly 6 in 10 Republicans and
independents, and about 7 in 10 Democrats said they favored a
path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants currently in the
U.S. The telephone survey of 1,005 adults 18 years of age or
older was conducted Nov. 6-10 and has a margin of error of 3.1
percentage points.  In 2011, 25 percent of the foreign-born population in the
U.S. came from Asian countries, accounting to White House  data .
Asian immigrants account for 11 percent of undocumented
immigrants in the U.S., according to the report.  Last year, Asian-Americans voted for Obama by 73 percent,
 exit polls  showed.  Obama’s speech at the Betty Ann Ong Chinese Recreation
Center in  San Francisco  was interrupted when a heckler standing
among people on the riser behind him yelled that the president
has “power to stop deportations for all.”  “Actually, I don’t,” Obama replied. “If, in fact, I
could solve all these problems without passing laws in Congress,
then I would do so. But we’re also a nation of laws.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  