-- Tokyo Beating Paris Property Lifts REIT Bond Sales: Japan Credit
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-11-25T23:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/tokyo-beating-paris-property-lifts-reit-bond-sales-japan-credit.html
The strongest bond sales in three
years by real estate investment trusts are showing confidence in
the property revival sparked by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  REIT sales jumped 33 percent this year to 95.8 billion yen
($944 million), outpacing the 5.9 percent increase in Japanese
corporate issuance and the 2.2 percent climb for that in the
U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan Excellent
Inc. (8987) , whose  properties  house units of Toshiba Corp. and Fujitsu
Ltd., raised 5 billion yen of 0.46 percent debt last week due
2018 at a 5 basis point yield premium over the yen swap rate,
down from the 48 it paid in 2011.  Tokyo beat Paris to become the world’s third most-active
real estate market this year, as office vacancy rates fell to a
2009 low and housing starts extended the longest growth streak
in more than 19 years ahead of a planned consumption tax
increase. The Japanese capital’s properties also stand to
receive a windfall of about 152 billion yen from the 2020
Olympic Games, according to International Olympic Committee.  “Investor perception of  Japan  Excellent’s profitability is
improving in tandem with the office space market,” said Mikio Namiki, an analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The
bonds are also offering a spread that is quite attractive to
investors which have seen yield premiums decline across the
board.”  Narrowing Spreads  The spread on the Tokyo-based REIT’s 1.01 percent notes due
2016 dropped 28 basis points since the offering in October 2011
to 20 basis points. Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd. ranks the
company AA-, its fourth-highest investment grade. The spread for
Japan’s similarly-rated issuers plunged 36 to 7 in the period,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Japan Excellent has 29 billion yen of  bonds outstanding ,
including 12 billion yen maturing in March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund’s weighted average fixed coupon
declined to 1.2 percent from 1.45 percent in the last quarter of
2010, the data show.  “The overall office market is improving which is positive
for the REIT market,” said Kenta Anami, general manager at the
finance and accounting department of Japan Excellent. “We
refinanced the debt earlier because we see now as a good
timing.”  Abe’s economic stimulus campaign includes monetary stimulus
to encourage finance activity. Stepped-up borrowing by Japanese
companies has to translate into increased capital spending for
the measures to succeed in ending deflation and reviving the
world’s third-largest economy.  Volumes Swell  The volume of real estate transactions in  Tokyo  jumped 58
percent to $15.6 billion in the first nine months of this year,
according to a  report  by Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. That’s $400
million short of New York, which ranked second with $16 billion
after a 16 percent decline. Paris was fourth with $10.9 billion,
while  London  topped the list with $23.2 billion.  Tokyo’s office vacancy rate, a measurement of unoccupied
space, dropped to 7.56 percent last month from 7.9 percent in
September and was at its lowest since June 2009, according to
broker Miki Shoji Co.  The gauge  reached a record 9.43 percent in
June 2012.  Commercial land values in Japan’s three biggest
metropolitan areas rose for the first time since 2008 this year,
gaining 0.6 percent, according to the land ministry’s annual
land survey report released in September.  GPIF Investments  Japan’s property-related securities may also receive an
infusion of from the country’s pension assets. An expert panel
recommended that the 121 trillion yen  Government Pension
Investment Fund diversify its investments into other financial
products, including REITs, where returns may be higher than on
local sovereign bonds, according to a report released by the
advisory group on Nov. 20.  “We see a growing possibility of GPIF investment in REITs
via baby funds with outsourced specialist management,” Tomohiro Araki, a Tokyo-based senior analyst at Nomura Securities Co.,
wrote in a report on the same day. The pension fund’s REIT
investment would help lift land values, Araki said in the
report.  Japan’s  sovereign notes  maturing in three years paid 0.12
percent yesterday. The currency strengthened 0.2 percent to
101.5 yen against the dollar as 8:50 a.m.  Japan Hotel REIT Investment Corp. (8985)  raised 2.5 billion yen of
0.89 percent bonds due 2016, at a yield premium of 60 basis
point over the yen swap rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. JCR has an A rating on the fund, its fifth-lowest
investment grade.  “Hotel assets tend to be riskier than offices,” prompting
investors to seek higher returns, said Roko Izawa, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Standard & Poor’s. “There are operational risks such
as fluctuation in occupancy rate and seasonality.”  Japan Retail Fund Investment Corp. (8953) , Japan’s third-biggest
REIT, said on Nov. 22 it hired Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. and Mizuho Securities Co. to handle a 10-year
bond sale. The fund last offered debt in 2007.  “A majority of Japan’s REITs have recently had their cost
of debt reduced because of an improving market condition,”
S&P’s Izawa said. “They want to lock down the cost of funding
because the outlook for interest rates is not clear. They want
to be prepared.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  