-- Hologic With Icahn Seen Primed for Takeover Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-11-25T21:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/hologic-with-icahn-seen-primed-for-takeover-bid-real-m-a.html
Carl Icahn ’s activist push to
enhance value at  Hologic Inc. (HOLX)  may turn one of the cheapest
medical-equipment makers in the U.S. into a takeover target.  Icahn disclosed a 12.6 percent stake in Hologic last week
and said he would talk to management about ways to boost the
shares and may seek board representation. The investor’s likely
goal is a sale of the $6.1 billion maker of cervical and breast
biopsy tools, which could appeal to industrial conglomerates
such as  Siemens AG (SIE)  or  Danaher (DHR)  Corp., or a consortium of private-equity and strategic bidders, said Cantor Fitzgerald LP.  While Hologic adopted a poison pill, the step is unlikely
to thwart Icahn with other shareholders poised to rally around
efforts to push up the stock, said International Strategy &
Investment Group LLC, which now sees a 100 percent probability
of a sale of all or parts of the company. Hologic trades at a
cheaper  profit multiple  than 88 percent of U.S. peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hologic may lure buyers for its
individual units and Icahn could accelerate divestitures as it
undergoes a review, William Blair & Co. said.  “This is a stock that has been screaming for an activist
for awhile,” Jeremy Feffer, a New York-based analyst at Cantor
Fitzgerald, said in a phone interview. “The size of the
position he’s taking plays a role here. He’s serious. My sense
is that the board currently is not looking at very dramatic
changes. He is probably the person to get them to change that
thinking.”  Deborah Gordon, a spokeswoman for Bedford, Massachusetts-based Hologic, declined to comment on whether the company would
consider a sale of the company, divisions, or assets, or whether
the company had received interest from suitors.  Weighing Options  Hologic has four main  business units : diagnostics, which
makes blood screening and pap test tools; breast health, which
sells mammography technology; gynecological surgical, which
markets NovaSure for excessive menstrual bleeding; and skeletal
health, which produces devices that measure bone density.  The company, which this month reported its fifth loss in
six years, is already reviewing ways to get the most out of its
resources. Hologic forecast a sales decline for fiscal 2014,
which ends in September, amid weaker demand for its pap test,
blood screening and NovaSure products. Management has also faced
criticism for overpaying in its 2012 takeover of Gen-Probe Inc.  “The company has destroyed value,” Jonathan Groberg, a
New York-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a phone
interview. “Their core business is declining. It’s massively
underperformed the market.”  Trailing Peers  Hologic  had risen  about 11 percent this year before Icahn
disclosed his stake, compared with a 43 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s MidCap Health Care Index. The stock now trades
at 16.6 times its projected earnings for this fiscal year,
compared with the median price-earnings ratio of 20 among U.S.
medical equipment and device makers valued at more than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Icahn said in filing disclosed on Nov. 21 that Hologic
shares are undervalued and that he planned to have conversations
with management about improving shareholder returns. He also
said he may seek board representation. Icahn didn’t respond to a
request for comment left with his assistant.  The activist investor began building his stake, which
consists of both common shares and options, on Oct. 4, according
to the filing. His average cost basis was about $21.40 a share,
according to Feffer of Cantor Fitzgerald. Hologic closed last
week at $22.57.  Today, Hologic shares fell 0.7 percent to $22.41.  Big Investment  The size and cost of the investment signal Icahn will
“probably angle for a sale of the company,” said Feffer. An
industrial conglomerate such as Siemens,  Royal Philips NV (PHIA)  or
Danaher, which all sell diagnostics tools and capital equipment,
may possibly be drawn to Hologic’s diverse businesses,  said
Feffer and Vijay Kumar, a New York-based analyst at ISI.  Danaher Chief Executive Officer Larry Culp has said the $52
billion company has the capability to do more than $8 billion in
deals through 2014 and is eyeing 225 M&A target opportunities.  Hologic may fetch about $27 a share in a sale, said Kumar.
If the company isn’t sold outright and Hologic instead decides
to restructure its businesses, that still would require some
divestitures to reduce debt, he said.  Another option, which could result in a higher valuation
for the assets, is to sell the company in pieces to a consortium
of private-equity and strategic buyers, with each suitor taking
the piece that’s most attractive to them, Feffer said.  Icahn could accelerate the company’s review by encouraging
it to sell some assets that may not be on the chopping block,
said Brian Weinstein, a Chicago-based analyst at William Blair.  Valuation View  “The company’s view of what the valuation is versus his
view could be very different,” Weinstein said in a phone
interview. “Potentially he could encourage the company, gently
of course, to consider different alternatives.”  Weinstein estimated Hologic could be worth about $30 a
share, based on the sum of its parts, if its finds buyers for
its pieces.  Hologic could spin off or sell part or all of its
diagnostics unit, which may appeal to Siemens or Danaher, or
divest its gynecological surgical division, which could lure
medical-device makers  C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR)  or  Boston Scientific (BSX)  Corp,
said Michael Matson, a New York analyst at Needham & Co.  Representatives for Amsterdam-based Philips, Munich-based
Siemens and Washington-based Danaher declined to comment on a
potential acquisition of Hologic. Representatives for Natick,
Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific and Murray Hill, New
Jersey-based C.R. Bard didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Not Easy  Selling the gynecological surgery and diagnostic units may
be problematic because Hologic needs the cash flow they generate
to pay down its $4.8 billion in  debt , while divesting breast
health would leave it dependent on declining businesses, said
Amit Hazan, a New York-based analyst at  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)   “I just don’t see a pathway forward that that could happen
without the equity really getting hurt,” Hazan said.  That means a sale of smaller assets within the divisions,
such as the company’s breast biopsy business, or a divestiture
of its skeletal health unit, may be a better route, Hazan said.  Whatever his plans are, Icahn’s involvement in Hologic is a
positive development, said David Katz, chief investment officer
at New York-based Matrix Asset Advisors, which oversees about
$950 million and began buying Hologic stock at the end of
October. He estimates the company could fetch $28 to $32 a share
in a sale if there are multiple interested buyers.  “His agenda here is to give the company a greater sense of
urgency to maximize shareholder value and one alternative could
very well be that they consider selling themselves,” Katz said
in a phone interview. “My guess is after Icahn filed his
position in the company, a number of investment bankers started
sharpening their pencils and really looking at the numbers in
detail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  