-- London Luxury-Home Building Accelerates
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-11-25T14:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/london-luxury-home-construction-accelerates-as-price-gains-slow.html
Luxury-home  developers  plan to build
more than 20,000 properties in  London  over the next decade,
ramping up construction despite slowing price gains, consulting
firm EC Harris LLP said.  The 10-year pipeline stood at 15,000 homes a year earlier,
EC Harris said yesterday in a statement. There’s been a 55
percent increase in the number of homes planned in the luxury
market’s lower end, mainly on the edges of neighborhoods like
Mayfair and Knightsbridge.  South Asian buyers account for two-thirds of new London
homes sold before completion, according to  Land Securities Group
Plc (LAND) , the largest U.K. real estate investment trust. There’s a
risk that those investors will grow weary of repeated sales
exhibitions promoting London property, Mark Farmer, head of
residential at EC Harris, said in the report.  “Pre-sales are happening in a much more crowded market and
there are increasing challenges for developers and investors
which are resulting from this,” Farmer said. “We are seeing a
critical juncture in the market, especially at the lower end of
the prime range, where it can no longer be a given that you
should spend more to make more.”  Luxury-home values in central London rose 6.8 percent in
October from a year earlier, the slowest in about four years,
according to London-based broker Knight Frank LLP.  Luxury Oversupply  Developers now expect to construct London homes worth more
than 50 billion pounds ($81 billion) over the decade, EC Harris
said. Oversupply is unlikely in the luxury market because
construction rarely happens if companies don’t achieve their
pre-sales targets, the company said.  Not everybody agrees. Central London’s “top-end
residential market, particularly on tower buildings, is
beginning to look overpopulated for the amount of space being
built,” David Atkins, chief executive officer of developer
Hammerson Plc, said in a Sept. 6 interview.  About 29 percent of the planned luxury apartments will be
located on the south bank of the  River Thames , stretching from
the area around Battersea Power Station to Tower Bridge,
according to EC Harris. Developer Battersea Project Holding Co.
plans to start selling 250 apartments at the station for 2,500
pounds a square foot in April, more than double the price for
apartments sold in the first phase of the project.  Profit margins for developers may be squeezed by rising
building costs, EC Harris said. Farmer predicts the price of
building a home in London will rise about 5 percent this year
and as much as 6 percent in 2014.  Advance Sales  Developers typically need to sell 30 percent to 40 percent
of larger apartment projects before banks will provide credit
for construction, Farmer said. The numbers can vary depending on
the developer’s track record, he said.  EC Harris, based in London, defines luxury homes as those
that will sell for 1,250 pounds a square foot or more. That’s up
from 1,100 pounds last year.  Wealthy prospective buyers may be deterred by talk of
higher taxes, Farmer wrote in the report. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  is considering a capital-gains tax on
the second homes of foreign owners of U.K. real estate,  Sky News 
reported on Oct. 31.  “This issue is fast becoming the biggest cloud gathering
on the horizon of London prime residential,” Farmer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  