-- Honduras Presidential Vote Count Disputed by Zelaya
-- B y   I s a b e l l a   C o t a   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2013-11-25T20:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/honduras-presidential-vote-count-disputed-by-zelaya.html
Former Honduran President  Manuel Zelaya , ousted in a 2009 coup, rejected official election
results showing his wife, Xiomara Castro, losing the
presidential vote with more than half the precincts reporting.  Zelaya, whose overthrow prompted violence and looting in
the Central American country four years ago, said at a news
conference today that supporters should be prepared to take to
the streets peacefully to defend their rights in yesterday’s
vote. With 62 percent of precincts reporting, official results
show Juan Orlando Hernandez of the ruling National Party with 34
percent compared with 29 percent for Castro. Final results are
expected by the end of the day.  “If necessary we will go to the streets to defend the
results,” Zelaya told cheering supporters in the capital,
Tegucigalpa, at an event not attended by his wife. “Prove to
us, poll by poll, document by document, that your results are
different than ours.”  The head of the European Union’s observer mission said
yesterday that voting was “peaceful and transparent” amid
record turnout. President Porfirio Lobo joined leaders from
Colombia,  Guatemala ,  Nicaragua  and Panama in congratulating
Hernandez. At a news conference today, the 45-year-old Hernandez
said he would not negotiate his electoral “triumph.”  Eight candidates vied for the presidency, which has been
held by the  National Party  or the  Liberal Party  for over a
century. There is no second-round vote, so whoever gets the most
votes wins.  Embassy Asylum  Honduras has been polarized since the 2009 coup, during
which Zelaya sneaked back into the country and took shelter at
the Brazilian Embassy after being forced into exile. An accord
with the government then allowed him to depart for the Dominican
Republic. He returned to Honduras in 2011 and Castro, who had
led protest marches in his absence, helped found the Libre
party.  “Honduras continues to be deeply divided, and some just
don’t trust the institutions of government,” said Eric Olson,
the associate director of the Latin American Program at the
Wilson Center in Washington, in a phone interview today.  Hernandez, 45, said last night that the election results
showed people wanted to move on from the coup.  “The Honduran people voted to leave the 2009 crisis, the
worst  Honduras  has ever had, behind,” Hernandez told supporters
in the capital yesterday. He vowed to use the military to
“regain peace and calm” in the country ranked as the most
violent in the world according to the  United Nations .  Investors wary of Zelaya’s former alliance with late
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  have fueled a rally in Honduran
bonds since September as polls showed Hernandez gaining on
Castro, who led earlier this year.  The yield on the country’s dollar bonds due in 2024 rose 2
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 9.17 percent at 2:24
p.m. local time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabella Cota in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 icota@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  