-- Hong Kong Stocks Fall as Gold Slides, Sinopec Retreats
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   J a s m i n e   N g
-- 2013-11-25T09:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/hong-kong-stocks-advance-as-u-s-data-boosts-exporters.html
Hong Kong   stocks  fell, with a gauge
of  China  shares retreating after the biggest weekly gain in two
years as China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., also known as
Sinopec, led declines in energy shares after a pipeline blast.  Sinopec sank 2.6 percent after saying operations at a
refinery will be disrupted after the explosion. Energy producers
fell most among the Hang Seng Composite Index’s 11 industry
groups. Zhaojin Mining Industry Co., China’s second-largest gold
producer, slid 2.2 percent as bullion prices fell after a
nuclear accord with Iran tempered demand for haven assets.
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  rose 3.2 percent after  Asia ’s largest
Internet company signed a deal with Sinolink Securities Co. to
provide online wealth management services.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , also known as the H-share index, lost 0.5 percent to 11,387.21 at the close in Hong
Kong after last week capping its biggest weekly advance since
December 2011. The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  closed little changed at
23,684.45, having swung between gains of as much as 0.6 percent
earlier and a loss of 0.1 percent. More than two shares fell for
each that rose on the 50-member gauge. Last week China outlined
its broadest slate of reforms since the 1990s.  “The policies announced last week will have a long-term
impact on the Hong Kong stock market, but the overall related
stocks seem to have overreacted,”  Castor Pang , head of research
at Core Pacific-Yamaichi Hong Kong Ltd. “We’re seeing a
consolidation for those stocks now.”  Relative Value  The  Hang Seng Index  rose 20 percent from its June 24 low,
taking valuations to 11.35 times estimated earnings, compared
with 16.3 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index on Nov. 22. The H-share index climbed 28 percent from this year’s low on June 25
on signs of recovery in China and after policy makers unveiled
the economic agenda.  “There are no new catalysts to drive the market higher,”
 Andrew Sullivan , director of sales trading at Kim Eng Securities
in Hong Kong, said by phone. “The reforms in China are going to
take a little while to execute. There are no quick fixes.”  Futures on the  S&P 500  gained 0.3 percent today after last
week closing at a record high and capping a seventh week of
gains. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  also rose a seventh
week, completing its longest streak of weekly advances since
January 2011.  Sinopec slipped 2.6 percent to HK$6.83. Production at the
Qindao refinery, which produces 10 million metric tons of oil
products annually, will have “some disruptions,” Lv Dapeng, a
Beijing-based spokesman for the company, said in a phone
interview yesterday. A pipeline explosion at the facility over
the weekend killed at least 55 people. PetroChina Co., the
nation’s biggest energy producer, fell 1.1 percent to HK$9.32.  Iran Deal  Zhaojin Mining fell 2.2 percent to HK$5.26. Gold fell to
the lowest level in more than four months as the accord between
Iran and world powers damped demand for a haven, while holdings
in exchange-traded products extended declines.  By agreeing to curtail its nuclear activities,  Iran  won an
easing of certain sanctions on oil, auto parts, gold and
precious metals for six months. The deal, which is reversible
and could be worth $7 billion of relief of sanctions, was
announced yesterday after five days of talks in Geneva.  Among stocks that advanced, Tencent Holdings climbed 3.2
percent to HK$438, the highest close since Oct. 22, after
signing a strategic cooperation agreement with Sinolink
Securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Ng in Singapore at 
 jng299@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  