-- Los Angeles Gasoline Surges as Tesoro Said to Plan Unit Repairs
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-11-25T23:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/los-angeles-gasoline-surges-as-tesoro-said-to-plan-unit-repairs.html
Los Angeles gasoline gained to its
highest level against futures in almost two weeks after  Tesoro
Corp. (TSO)  was said to be planning repairs on a unit at its Southern
California refinery in January.  The fuel advanced after Tesoro was said to plan maintenance
on the hydrocracker in the Wilmington, California, section of
its 363,000-barrel-a-day Los Angeles complex, according to two
people familiar with the schedule. The work is expected to last
six weeks, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles jumped
5 cents against futures traded on the New York Mercantile
Exchange to a premium of 2 cents a gallon at 5:19 p.m. East
Coast time, its highest level since Nov. 12, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Retail gasoline  in  California  slipped 0.1 cent
to $3.561 a gallon, according to Heathrow, Florida-based AAA.  Tina Barbee, a Tesoro spokeswoman at the company’s
headquarters in San Antonio, declined by e-mail to comment on
the maintenance.  Carbob in San Francisco gained 1 cent against futures to a
discount of 11.5 cents. The fuel had weakened earlier today
after Tesoro’s 170,000-barrel-a-day Golden Eagle refinery in
Northern California reported a “major unit” startup. The plant
was also changing out a different unit, the company said in a
filing with county regulators today.  The Golden Eagle refinery is performing planned
maintenance, Barbee said.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and state-grade diesel in Los Angeles, an
indicator of refining profitability in the western U.S.,
narrowed $1.93 a barrel, or 15 percent, to $10.60 at 4:10 p.m.
 New York  time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the
lowest since Oct. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  