-- Osborne Says Labour Is Taking ‘Soft Loans’ From Co-Op Bank
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-11-25T11:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/osborne-says-labour-is-taking-soft-loans-from-co-op-bank.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne accused the Labour Party of taking money and soft loans
from Co-Operative Bank Plc, elevating a dispute over the
opposition’s links with the institution now under investigation.  Osborne ordered an independent inquiry into events at Co-Op
Bank after its parent ceded control and former chairman, Paul Flowers, was arrested after he was filmed buying crack cocaine
by a U.K. newspaper. Co-operative Party candidates stand jointly
with Labour in some constituences.  Co-Operative Group Ltd. relinquished control of its lending
arm to bondholders last month to help plug a 1.5 billion-pound
($2.4 billion) capital shortfall exposed by its failed bid for
branches owned by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  Chairman Len Wardle
resigned last week after leading the board that appointed
Flowers.  “At least parts of the Labour Party knew things about Mr.
Flowers that they did not pass on to the regulator,” Osborne
told BBC Radio.  Labour is “currently taking money and soft
loans from the Co-Op at the very moment while this institution
is in trouble, where bondholders are having to make sacrifices,
pensioners who rely on the income from those bonds are having to
make sacrifices, where people working for the Co-Op face losing
their job.”  The Daily Telegraph reported today that Labour’s property
portfolio has profited from low-interest loans from the bank.
Labour Party Properties Ltd. secured a loan of 3.8 million
pounds at a rate of 2.88 percent, the paper said.  Tory ‘Smear’  “The interest rate of the Labour Party’s loan with the Co-Op is 3.5 percent above the Co-Op’s base,” Labour said in an e-mailed statement. “To describe it as a ‘soft loan’ is untrue
and is a smear being peddled around by the Conservative Party.”  Labour’s home affairs spokesman, Yvette Cooper, said the
Tory allegations amount to “a real deterioration in the nature
of the politics,” accusing Prime Minister David Cameron of
presiding over “a return to the nasty party.”  Osborne also defended his government’s involvement in plans
for Co-Op Bank to take over more than 600  Lloyds branches.   “Here the system worked because, actually, when we saw the
Co-Op was in no fit state to take over the Lloyds branches, the
alarm bell rang, the alarm bell was heard and that is why our
system is working,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  