-- Osborne Reverses Position on Payday Lenders to Cap Cost of Loans
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-11-25T09:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/osborne-reverses-position-on-payday-lenders-to-cap-cost-of-loans.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne reversed position on payday lenders and said the
overall cost of their loans will be capped, following a campaign
by an opposition Labour lawmaker.  While the government has opposed calls for a cap, Osborne
said evidence from abroad now showed it could work. With an
election 18 months away and Labour focusing on the squeeze on
living standards, the chancellor said his plan would help
“hard-working people.”  “We’re going to introduce a cap on the cost of these loans
and I mean a cap on all the different elements of it brought
together, because it’s not just the interest charges, it’s also
the arrangement fees and the like, to protect people who take
out these  loans ,” he told ITV television.  The coalition government trails Labour in the polls on
issues around the cost of living, with consumer prices having
risen twice as fast as wages since the 2010 election. Osborne is
likely to use his Autumn Statement on Dec. 5 to address other
areas Labour has highlighted, such as utility bills.  Stella Creasy, a Labour consumer-affairs spokeswoman who
has campaigned against the interest charges of payday lenders,
in particular Wonga.com Ltd, said she wanted more information
about the government’s plans.  “The devil really is in the detail,” she told the  BBC .
“This industry is a bit like an inflated balloon, and if you
don’t crack down on the whole cost of credit then wherever they
can recoup their cost by expanding their prices at other points
they will.”  Osborne said the cap would be set by the Financial Conduct
Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  