-- Mouton to Pavie to Bottle Less Top Wine After ‘Chaotic’ Season
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-11-25T15:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/mouton-to-pavie-to-bottle-less-top-wine-after-chaotic-season.html
Bordeaux estates including Chateau
Pavie and Vieux Chateau Certan will bottle less of their
flagship first wines in 2013 after weather setbacks in a season
vintners described as chaotic.  Pavie, a top-ranked Saint-Emilion chateau, expects at most
half the usual volume of its main wine, or “grand vin,” owner
Gerard Perse said. At Vieux Chateau Certan in Pomerol,
production of the top wine may fall as much as 75 percent,
manager Alexandre Thienpont said.  The cloudiest May on record and a rainy June caused poor
flowering and berry losses in Bordeaux, particularly for  merlot ,
one of the main grapes in the most-prestigious wines. The
region’s wine production is forecast to fall to the lowest since
1991, according to the region’s wine board.  “A very complicated vintage on the weather front,” said
Thomas Duroux, chief executive officer of  Chateau Palmer , a
classified Margaux wine property. “By the end of flowering we
knew the harvest would be late, and yields small.”  Summer brought a smile back on wine makers’ faces, with a
“magnificent” July and August, said Olivier Bernard, head of
the Union des Grands Crus de Bordeaux representing the top
estates. Then came September.  A hot and humid September caused botrytis, or gray rot, to
spread in remaining fruit, prompting some estates to harvest
earlier than planned and pick barely mature grapes.  “I’d describe September as chaotic,” Bernard said. “We
saw something we haven’t seen for a long time, rot on grapes
that weren’t ripe.”  The city of Bordeaux on Sept. 28 had 45 percent of rainfall
it usually gets in the entire month, with temperatures rising to
26.1 degrees Celsius (79 degrees Fahrenheit), 2.1 degrees above
the month’s average high, Meteo-France data show.  Fast Harvest  “The main complication this year was being able to harvest
fast to avoid the damage that can be caused by botrytis,” said
Philippe Dhalluin, managing director at Chateau Mouton
Rothschild. “Conditions were very favorable for its onset.”  Palmer’s Duroux brought forward the merlot harvest to Sept.
27 from Oct. 5, hiring extra workers to pick the grapes in four
days rather than eight, before moving to the later-ripening
cabernet grapes.  Yields at Palmer were 22 hectoliters per hectare (235
gallons per acre), from 35 hectoliters in an average year, said
Duroux, in charge of the estate since 2004. The main wine will
be less than the usual 8,000 cases of 12 bottles, he said.  “We’ll make the best wine possible, if we have to make it
2,000 cases to ensure quality we’ll do it,” Duroux said.  At Beychevelle, a Saint Julien estate, the weather caused
record-low yields of 31 to 32 hectoliters per hectare, from 42
hectoliters last year, Managing Director Philippe Blanc said.
The chateau may produce 10,000 to 12,000 cases of its first
wine, from 20,000 normally, he said.  Lower Volume  Mouton Rothschild volume was “clearly down,” said
Dhalluin, who didn’t give details. Quality should still be equal
to or better than 2007 or 2008, he said.  Volume at Pavie fell 40 percent to 50 percent, and the
first wine will be a maximum of 4,000 cases from the usual
8,000, Perse said. Vieux Chateau Certan had a “tiny” yield of
23 hectoliters per hectare and may have 1,000 to 1,200 cases of
its grand vin, from 4,000 in a normal year, Thienpont said.  Potential alcohol, a gage of ripeness based on sugar levels
in the grapes, was 12.5 percent at Palmer and Chateau Leoville-Barton in Saint Julien, 12.5-13 percent at Chateau Montrose, a
Saint-Estephe property, and 13-13.2 percent at Beychevelle,
according to the estates.  Storage Potential  “Even if maturity wasn’t as complete as we would have
liked, it’s not at all disastrous,” Blanc said. “We’ll try to
reach a quality close to 2004 and 2007, wines with medium
storage potential for more rapid consumption.”  Montrose had yields of about 30 hectoliters per hectare
from 35-36 last year, with yields for merlot down about 20
percent and cabernet sauvignon stable, Managing Director Herve Berland said.  The first wine, usually made with 65 percent cabernet
sauvignon and most of the remainder merlot, may be assembled
with 70 percent of the main grape instead, Berland said. Merlot
ripens earlier than cabernet, and its thinner skin makes the
variety more susceptible to rot.  “We would have liked two, three days more for the merlot,
sure, but the grapes reached technical ripeness,” Berland said.  Leoville-Barton expects yields of 35 hectoliters per
hectare, similar to 2011, spokeswoman Magali Pourquie said. The
estate has a tendency for early ripening and didn’t suffer
weather damage, picking “very good-looking grapes,” she said.  Young Vines  Troplong Mondot in Saint-Emilion yielded 34 to 35
hectoliters per hectare from 37 to 40 hectoliters in 2012,
according to Xavier Pariente, who runs the chateau. He said the
estate’s relatively young vines of 30 to 35 years old are less
susceptible to poor fruit set and uneven grape development.  The chateau is “on its way” to producing a better vintage
than 2012 after picking ripe grapes with 13.7-15.5 percent
potential alcohol, Pariente said.  “Conditions of the vintage were complicated from the
start,” Bernard said. “Some people may have inferior quality
wine. There’s a lot of variation, there will be  very good
products  as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  