-- Peugeot Leads Decline in Junk Bond Risk to Lowest in Six Years
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-11-25T12:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/peugeot-leads-decline-in-junk-bond-risk-to-lowest-in-six-years.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  led a drop in
high-yield corporate bond risk in Europe to the lowest in six
years after Iran agreed to limit its nuclear program in exchange
for an easing of international trade sanctions.  The cost of insuring the debt of Europe’s second-biggest
carmaker against losses dropped 23 basis points to 375 basis
points at 11:41 a.m. in  London . The Markit iTraxx Crossover
index of credit-default swaps on 50 junk-rated European
companies fell 5.4 basis points to 323 basis points, the lowest
since October 2007.  Peugeot and Renault SA are expected to be among the biggest
beneficiaries of a six-month deal between Iran and six world
powers including the U.S., which eases restrictions on  Iran ’s
auto sector, oil exports and other assets. The French carmakers
sold more cars in the country than any other European competitor
before its nuclear activities forced them to halt exports.  “Risk sentiment has received a shot in the arm from an
interim agreement with Iran reached in Geneva yesterday,”
Richard McGuire and Lyn Graham-Taylor, fixed-income strategists
at Rabobank International in London, wrote in a note to clients.
“The Iranian agreement does perhaps offer something for
everyone, in that the rise in equities and drop in oil prices
indicates the market’s optimistic take on this development.”  Contracts on Peugeot’s debt also fell on reports the
company is seeking to hire Carlos Tavares as its chief executive
officer. The Paris-based carmaker is said to be in talks to hire
 Renault SA (RNO) ’s former chief operating officer to replace CEO
Philippe Varin, who is due to step down next year, according to
two people familiar with the matter. Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a
Peugeot spokesman, declined to comment on the hiring.  Peugeot CEO  Speculation that Tavares will become Peugeot’s CEO, along
with the Iran accord, is driving the company’s credit-default
swaps lower today, said Pierre Bergeron, a credit analyst at
Societe Generale SA in Paris.  In the new issue market, Italian aerospace and defense
company  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  hired banks to arrange a possible bond
sale, according to a person familiar with the matter. The Rome-based company is rated BB+ by Standard & Poor’s, one level below
investment grade.  The average yield investors demand to hold speculative-grade notes in euros fell 12 basis points this month to a record
4.99 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s largest mobile-phone operator,
will begin meeting investors in Europe on Nov. 27 for a planned
debut sale of euro-denominated senior notes, according to
another person. The New Delhi-based company is rated Baa3 at
Moody’s Investors Service and one level lower at BB+ by S&P.  New Issuance  Prologis Inc. (PLD) , a San Francisco-based industrial real estate
developer, is marketing bonds in euros due January 2022 partly
to refinance its outstanding 5.875 percent notes maturing
October 2014, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , one of the two European network
operators part-owned by  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, is
speaking with investors today about a potential sale of bonds in
euros, according to a person familiar with the plan. The Vienna-based company will sell the securities through its Telekom
Finanzmanagement GmbH unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  