-- Posen Says U.K. House Price Bubble May Fuel Crisis in Sterling
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-11-25T11:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/posen-says-u-k-house-price-bubble-may-fuel-crisis-in-sterling.html
Former Bank of England policy maker
 Adam Posen  said the U.K. government’s program to aid first-time
home buyers may be fueling a bubble in prices that could provoke
a crisis in the pound.  “I definitely see the potential” for a sterling crisis,
Posen said on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with  Guy
Johnson . “Sterling’s going to be up but I fear it’s going to be
as temporary as the housing-price boost from Help to Buy.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has asked the
BOE’s Financial Policy Committee to report in September on the
risks posed by his Help-to-Buy program amid criticism it’s over-stimulating the  property market . Posen, who stepped down in 2012
after three years on the BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee, said
the FPC needs to take action now.  “Where the hell is the FPC, which should be countering
this and they said they’re not going to touch it for another
year,” he said. “This is just repeating the run up -- the
bubble of asset prices, in housing in the U.K. that we saw in
the early crisis years -- and I don’t quite see the point since
it’s not turning into increased supply.”  The  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said this
month its  house-price index  rose to the highest in more than a
decade in October. BOE Governor  Mark Carney  will present the
bank’s quarterly Financial Stability Report in London on Nov. 28
after saying earlier this month that “clearly there are areas
in the country where valuations are very elevated.”  Not Sustainable  The pound has risen about 7.3 percent against the dollar in
the past six months. It’s advanced 6.7 percent in the past six
months, the best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  For Posen, who is now president of the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in  Washington , U.K. growth will
temporarily “surprise on the upside, so that’s all bullish for
sterling.” While a crisis in the pound isn’t “locked and
loaded,” there is the potential for one, according to Posen.  “I don’t view this as a sustainable recovery, I view 1-1.5
percent of the growth rate as relying on fundamentals and the
rest of it being this bubble,” he said.  Asked how long this could continue, Posen said, “If we’ve
got enough oligarchs and people fleeing, wanting to get their
money out of unstable governments, they want to buy real estate
in  London , it could last for a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  