-- Pound Falls From One-Month High as Home Loans Drop
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-11-25T16:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/pound-climbs-to-one-month-high-before-mortgage-approvals-report.html
The pound weakened from a one-month
high against the dollar as an industry report showed U.K.
mortgage approvals unexpectedly declined in October.  Sterling slid by the most in two weeks versus the greenback
on speculation gross domestic product data will fail to exceed
analyst forecasts. The pound was little changed versus the euro
after European Central Bank Governing Council member Ardo Hansson said officials stand ready to cut benchmark interest
rates further. Former Bank of England policy maker Adam Posen
said a house-price bubble may provoke a crisis in the pound.
U.K. government bonds advanced.  “You’re seeing some profit taking on the back of concerns
that the market is getting too far ahead of itself in terms of
early rate-hike expectations,” said Peter Kinsella, a senior
currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “That said,
I’m of the view that sterling will appreciate more from here in
line with the improvement in economic growth.”  The pound fell 0.5 percent to $1.6143 at 4:24 p.m. London
time after climbing to $1.6240, the highest since Oct. 25. The
decline is the steepest since Nov. 12. Sterling traded at 83.63
pence per euro after appreciating to 83.01 pence on Nov. 7, the
strongest level since Jan. 17.  Loans approved for  house purchases  dropped to 42,808 from a
revised 43,182 in September, the British Bankers’ Association
said. That compared with a median forecast of an increase to
45,000 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The September
reading was the highest since December 2009.  Sterling Bulls  Options show traders expect sterling’s advance against the
euro to continue, while they’re becoming more bullish on the
U.K. currency versus the dollar.  The premium on three-month contracts allowing investors to
buy the pound against the euro over options to sell rose to 0.45
percentage point on Nov. 22, the highest in terms of closing
prices since September 2012, 25-delta risk-reversal rates show.
The premium was at 0.43 percentage point today.  As recently as August, traders paid a premium for options
granting the right to sell sterling versus the common currency.  The ECB cut its main refinancing rate to a record 0.25
percent on Nov. 7. Policy makers are considering a smaller-than-normal reduction in the deposit rate, currently at zero, to
minus 0.1 percent if more stimulus is needed, Bloomberg reported
last week. ECB officials next meet on Dec. 5.  ‘Fully Exhausted’  “The options on rate cuts are still not fully exhausted
and there are all kinds of other measures that are still on the
table,” ECB’s Hansson said in an interview in Tallinn on Nov.
22 that was published today.  Britain’s  GDP (UKGRABIQ)  rose 0.8 percent in the third quarter after
growing 0.7 percent in the previous three months, according to a
Bloomberg survey before the data is released on Nov. 27. That
would confirm a report released on Oct. 25.  “The pound will do very well,” said  Steven Saywell ,
global head of foreign-exchange strategy at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “Our valuation measures tell us that the pound is still
very cheap. Sterling has never regained the pre-crisis levels
against the euro or the dollar. From that perspective, there’s a
lot of upside.”  For Posen, who is now president of the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in  Washington , U.K. growth will
temporarily “surprise on the upside, so that’s all bullish for
sterling.” While a crisis in the pound isn’t “locked and
loaded,” there is the potential for one, he said.  Price Index  The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said this
month its  house-price index  rose to the highest in more than a
decade in October.  “I don’t view this as a sustainable recovery, I view 1-1.5
percent of the growth rate as relying on fundamentals and the
rest of it being this bubble,” Posen said on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with Guy Johnson. “Sterling is going
to be up but I fear it’s going to be as temporary as the
housing-price boost from Help to Buy.” Posen referred to the
government’s program to aid first-time home buyers.  The U.K. currency has gained 6.5 percent in the past six
months, the best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro
gained 3.9 percent and the dollar fell 0.9 percent.  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield dropped three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.77 percent. It rose to
2.87 percent on Nov. 21, the highest since Sept. 24. The price
of the 2.25 percent bond due in September 2023 climbed 0.215, or
2.15 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 95.61.  Gilts lost 3.2 percent this year through Nov. 22, according
to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German securities dropped 1.3
percent and U.S. Treasuries declined 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  