-- Qualcomm Says China Agency Started Anti-Monopoly Probe
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-11-25T22:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/qualcomm-says-china-agency-started-anti-monopoly-law-probe.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the world’s largest
maker of chips for smartphones, said  China ’s National
Development and Reform Commission began an investigation related
to an anti-monopoly law.  The NDRC has advised that specific details of the probe are
confidential, Qualcomm said today in a statement. The San Diego-based company isn’t aware of any charge by the agency that it
violated the anti-monopoly law. The Chinese government has been
stepping up corporate scrutiny recently, as new leadership
expands an anti-corruption drive and cracks down on business
practices that lead to increases in consumer prices.  Qualcomm gets revenue from chip sales and collects license
fees from wireless providers for the shipment of most Internet-capable phones. The company’s push to expand the reach of its
technology and chips in China may be leading the government to
examine its dominance, especially as the country tries to foster
a local chip industry capable of competing with overseas
suppliers, said Gus Richard, an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co.  “China wants to give as much advantage to their indigenous
chipmakers as they can,” said Richard, who rates the shares the
equivalent of a hold. “They care a lot about communications
infrastructure and cell phones. I don’t think China’s going to
pay them.”  Emily Kilpatrick , a spokeswoman at Qualcomm, said the
company won’t comment beyond the statement. The shares fell less
than 1 percent to $72.49 at the close in  New York . The stock has
gained 17 percent this year.  Antitrust Meeting  Qualcomm got 49 percent of its $24.9 billion in sales from
China in the fiscal year that ended in September, with some of
that coming from phones that were assembled in China and sold in
other countries. The company today said it will cooperate with
the NDRC’s probe. Qualcomm was invited to a meeting about
antitrust regulations in July by the country’s commerce
ministry, a spokeswoman said at the time.  The company gets the majority of its total revenue from
chips that run smartphones, and the bulk of its profit from
licensing technology that is central to modern cell-phone
networks and handsets. That means even phone-service providers
that don’t use Qualcomm chips pay royalties for use of its
patents. The company collected technology-license fees on more
than a billion phones in fiscal 2013 and sold more than 700
million chips.  Network Shift  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest wireless carrier,
hasn’t paid Qualcomm licensing fees after opting to use an
alternative technology for its current data network that the
Chinese government said wasn’t covered by the U.S. company’s
patents.  Qualcomm said it expected that to change next year, as
China shifts to a new higher-speed technology for mobile
networks called long-term evolution, or LTE. Last week at the
company’s analyst day in New York, executives said the network
shift means Qualcomm will be able to supply chips and get
licensing revenue from China Mobile.  The inquiry may be part of a broader investigation by the
Chinese government agency aimed at keeping consumer prices from
rising too quickly, and may not be a challenge to Qualcomm
directly, said  Mark McKechnie , an analyst at New York-based
Evercore Partners LLC. He recommends buying the shares.  “This looks like more of a broader effort over in China,”
he said. “It’s probably more about the chips than the
royalties.”  In the market for the most advanced Internet-capable
phones, Qualcomm has a share of about 60 percent and profit
margins of less than 20 percent, McKechnie said. That indicates
it’s facing tough competition and makes it more difficult to
show evidence of a monopoly, he said.  China’s Challenge  The Qualcomm probe is the latest example of the challenges
that overseas companies have faced as they try to expand in the
world’s most populous country.  China’s state-controlled media last month accused  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  of charging too much for coffee and said Samsung
Electronics Co.’s smartphones don’t work properly. International
Business Machines Corp.’s China revenue slipped 22 percent in
the third quarter as state-owned companies started delaying
orders, including mainframes and servers.  In August, the Chinese government fined six dairy companies
including Danone for fixing the prices of infant formula
products, and five Shanghai-based gold retailers and a local
trade association for manipulating jewelry prices.  The August fine over baby-formula price fixing, a combined
669 million  yuan  ($110 million) for dairy companies also
including  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) , was a record for violating
anti-monopoly laws.  Another high-profile probe into a foreign company this year
centered around London-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc. Four senior
executives from the company were detained in July on suspicion
of economic crimes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  