-- RBA’s Lowe Says Productivity Gains Needed to Boost Incomes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-11-26T00:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/rba-s-lowe-says-productivity-gains-are-needed-to-boost-incomes.html
Australian businesses need to boost
efficiency to maintain growth in living standards and could use
engineers freed up from mining construction to build more
infrastructure, central bank Deputy Governor Philip Lowe said.  “We can no longer depend on a rising terms of trade and
favorable demographics to make us richer,” Lowe said in the
text of a speech to be delivered in Sydney. “If this lift in
productivity growth does not take place, then we will need to
adjust to some combination of slower growth in real wages,
slower growth in profits, smaller gains in asset prices and
slower growth in government revenues and services –- in short,
slower growth in our average living standard.”  Lowe’s comments echo Treasury’s top economic forecaster
David Gruen, who said  Australia  should brace for the weakest
income growth in half a century in the coming 10 years. Gruen
said Nov. 21 that to maintain recent income growth levels would
require labor productivity growth to average 3.2 percent a year
for a decade -- something never achieved before.  The Reserve Bank of Australia has cut the nation’s
benchmark interest rate to a record-low 2.5 percent as it tries
to rebalance growth away from mining investment and toward
industries like manufacturing, residential construction and
services. That transition has been hampered by the sustained
strength of the Australian dollar. Lowe today reiterated the
central bank remains open minded on market action to affect the
currency’s level.  Not Ruled Out  “We don’t rule intervention in or out, that’s been a long-standing practice,” he said in response to an audience
question. “In the past, we have been prepared to intervene in
the currency market when it’s clear the currency was misaligned
or the market wasn’t working well. The threshold for
intervention though is fairly high.”  The Australian dollar swung on Lowe’s comments, and traded
at 91.87 U.S. cents at 11:06 a.m. in Sydney.  “Monetary policy can make a contribution by keeping
inflation low and stable so that people can make decisions
without having to worry about the distorting effects of high and
variable inflation,” he said in the speech. “Our medium-term
inflation targeting framework -- which has been in place for two
decades now -- has achieved this and we are committed to making
sure that we continue to deliver.”  Lowe said that productivity will receive a boost as the
nation’s mining boom moves from the employment-intensive
construction phase to exports that require fewer workers.  ‘Necessary Rebalancing’  “This creates an opportunity for infrastructure investment
to rise as a share of GDP without putting undue pressure on
domestic capacity,” Lowe said. “Such a rise could assist in
the necessary rebalancing of the economy and help create the
basis for a further boost to our national productivity.”  The RBA’s No. 2 official said infrastructure financing
“will be one of Australia’s priorities” when it chairs the
Group of 20 next year. Generating political support for changes
“that are in the national interest but may disadvantage some
sections of the community” is critical, he said. The country is
“falling short” in areas of infrastructure including
transport, Lowe said.  Australia’s currency climbed almost 50 percent in the four
years ended Dec. 31 as the nation escaped the 2009 global
recession and a China-led commodities-investment boom spurred
growth. That squeezed manufacturers and tourism operators in
Australia’s southeast, spurring job losses at companies
including Ford Motor Co., which said in May it would end
production in the country after nine decades.  Lowe said there had been some benefits to productivity from
the tighter conditions. “Many firms that we talk with --
particularly those affected by the high exchange rate -- report
that they have made serious efforts over recent years to make
their operations more efficient,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  