-- Treasury $32 Billion 2-Year Note Sales Draws Above-Average Bids
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-11-25T22:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/treasuries-decline-before-note-sales-on-outlook-for-fed-taper.html
Treasury’s sale of $32 billion of
two-year notes drew above-average demand on speculation that the
 Federal Reserve ’s efforts to hold down short-term yields will
support the debt.  U.S. debt  was little changed after the auction’s bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with
the amount of securities offered, was 3.54, the most since April
and above the average of 3.28 for the past 10 sales. The notes
were sold at yield of 0.3 percent, compared with a forecast of
0.299 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of the Fed’s
21 primary dealers. Treasury 10-year notes are headed for their
worst month since June, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Indexes.  “The market is increasingly trusting the Fed,” said
Michael Lorizio, senior trader at Manulife Asset Management in
 Boston . “They want to see significant sustainable improvement
before they even think of moving from the zero interest-rate
policy.”  The yield on the current two-year note maturing in October
2015 was little changed at 0.28 percent, at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The benchmark  10-year
note yield  dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
2.73 percent, the third consecutive drop in the security’s
yield.  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of five-year debt tomorrow
and $29 billion of seven-year securities Nov. 27.  Note Returns  Two-year notes have gained 0.4 percent this year, compared
with a decline of 2.5 percent by the broader Treasuries market,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 22.5 percent of the securities at
the sale. The average for the past 10 auctions is 24.2 percent.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 27.3 percent of
the notes at the auction, compared with an average of 22.7
percent at the past 10 sales.  Investors bid $2.88 for each dollar of the $1.9 trillion in
U.S. government notes and bonds sold at auction this year,
according to Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down
from the record $3.15 for the $2.153 trillion sold at last
year’s offerings.  This week’s auctions will redeem $64.4 billion of maturing
securities while raising $31.6 billion of new cash.  The difference in  yield  between five- and 10-year notes
widened to the most in two years last week after the Labor
Department said initial claims for jobless insurance fell more
than economists forecast. The spread was 1.39 percentage points
after expanding to 1.45 percentage points Nov. 21, the most
since August 2011.  Fed Policy  “The Fed will be in no rush to raise its policy rate
simply because they’ve embarked on a tapering program,” said
 Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $2.2 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New
York. “The front part of the curve is going to remain well
anchored from here.”  The current period contrasts with early September when the
market participants, widely expecting the Fed to slow its pace
of bond purchases, drove the two-year yield to a 27-month high
of 0.53 percent on Sept. 6, Sullivan said.  The Fed has been emphasizing the tapering of bond purchases
isn’t a tightening of monetary policy. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said last week the benchmark interest rate will
probably stay low long after the purchases end.  The central bank has held its target for overnight lending
between banks, the federal funds rate, in a range of zero to
0.25 percent for almost five years.  The $11.7 trillion Treasury market is betting on history
not repeating as the Fed moves closer to reducing  stimulus .  Taper Consensus  From futures to derivatives, traders don’t see the central
bank raising its benchmark  interest rate  from a record low until
nine months after policy makers end their monthly bond purchases
of $85 billion, or late 2015. In September, when the Treasury
market was tumbling in the midst of its worst year since 2009,
the projected gap was two months, according to Barclays Plc.  When Bernanke first discussed ending  purchases  May 22,
“there was a consensus opinion that ‘Oh my God, this is the
end,’” and that an increase to the federal funds rate would
“be right on the heels of that last purchase,” said Gregory Whiteley, who manages government-debt investments at Los
Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which oversees $53 billion.
“That is not the consensus any longer,” he said in a Nov. 19
telephone interview.  Investors see an 11 percent chance policy makers will
increase the target to 0.5 percent or more by January 2015,
based on data compiled by Bloomberg from futures contracts.  The U.S. bond market will be shut Nov. 28 for the
Thanksgiving holiday, according to the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association  website . SIFMA recommended a 2
p.m. close in  New York  on Nov. 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  