-- Republican Praise Hasn’t Ended Obama Pick’s 899-Day Wait
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-11-25T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/republican-praise-hasn-t-ended-obama-pick-s-899-day-wait.html
During the 899 days he has waited
for the Senate to vote on his nomination to a top job at the
Environmental Protection Agency, Ken Kopocis has amassed
compliments from Senate Republicans and a predecessor.  What that hasn’t gotten him is a confirmation vote.  Kopocis, once a Senate aide, is the longest-delayed of
President  Barack Obama ’s 231 nominees to cabinet agencies,
independent boards and the judiciary who await Senate action,
according to White House data. The delays were cited by Senate
Democrats when they voted Nov. 21 to end filibusters of such
nominations, clearing the way for confirmation without
Republican votes.  Votes to approve Kopocis and the others will give them
the ability to influence policymaking across the federal
government. Kopocis has been nominated to be the assistant
administrator for the EPA’s office of water, which is 
charged with implementing the  Clean Water Act , among other
things. Other nominees will shape financial regulations mandated
by legislation passed since the recession, or, in the case of an
opening for the director of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
in overseeing aid to troubled borrowers.  Nominees to judgeships could also exert authority over
challenges to Obama policies.  Water Policy  The delays for Kopocis, who’s working as an adviser to the
EPA while awaiting confirmation, show that the issues often
aren’t personal.  “It’s the EPA and the water office; it isn’t him,” Luke Bolar, a spokesman for Louisiana Senator  David Vitter , the top
Republican on the Environment and Public Works Committee, said.
“There are a number of issues within the EPA water office.”  EPA’s water policy has been troubling to Republicans,
farmers, real-estate agents and mining companies. Under Obama,
the EPA proposed guidelines that critics said would expand their
permitting jurisdiction over more water bodies, including some
that are streams that don’t flow all year.  For Kopocis, an end to the wait may come soon: Vitter’s
staff members are talking with those from the EPA this week. “I
think we’re close to some breakthrough,” Bolar said.  Ben Grumbles, who served in the EPA job under Republican
President  George W. Bush , said Kopocis is “a great choice” to
head that office.  “He is one of the most qualified candidates I can
imagine,” Grumbles, president of the U.S. Water Alliance, said
in an interview. “He’s a professional and knows the law.”  Alaska Bay  Vitter also held up the nomination because of the EPA’s
intervention into reviewing a potential mine in  Bristol Bay ,
 Alaska .  Northern Dynasty Minerals Ltd. (NAK)  of  Vancouver  is seeking
to develop copper there.  “Mr. Kopocis is already engaged in what we all believe is
a troubling expansion of EPA regulatory authority,” Vitter said
at a hearing in July.  Other Republican critics praised Kopocis.  “Ken, I’ve worked with you for a long time. I feel like,
in fact, a lot of the times you were here, I couldn’t remember
whether you were on our staff or her staff,” Oklahoma
Republican James Inhofe said at that hearing, referring to
Senate Environment and Public Works Democratic Chairman  Barbara Boxer  of  California . “We worked very closely together in the
past, even though philosophically we have a few areas where
we’re not going to be together.”  Federal Judgeships  Of the Obama nominees pending in the Senate, 53 are to
federal judgeships, 81 are candidates for cabinet agencies and
13 are to jobs at independent agencies such as the Chemical
Safety Board.  Republicans call the change the most dangerous revision of
Senate processes in more than two centuries, and warned that
Obama is trying to accomplish via  government regulation  what
can’t be done via legislation.  “They want to pack the court so that he can make sure he
doesn’t get overruled on a lot of unconstitutional things he’s
trying to do,” Iowa Republican  Charles Grassley  said in an
interview Nov. 22, referring to the president.  Even without a filibuster, the White House and committee
process is long and tortured, said Paul Light, a professor of
presidential studies at  New York  University.  “The process is already a nightmare and the Senate’s done
nothing to improve the process for nominees,” Light said in an
interview. From a nominee’s point of view, “it’s expensive,
it’s embarrassing, it’s a form of hazing and abusive.”  Changing the delaying tactic known as the filibuster “will
make it a little bit better,” Light said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  