-- Rockland Wins as Latest Suburb Under N.Y. Oversight: Muni Credit
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-11-25T20:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/rockland-wins-as-latest-suburb-under-n-y-oversight-muni-credit.html
Rockland County,  New York ’s third-wealthiest, had its finances put under state oversight this
month as it tackles deficits. Investors are betting the move
will help the municipality get back on track.  The New York City suburb has company in its stress.  Long
Island ’s Nassau County was already under a New York financial
control board, while neighboring Suffolk, home of the Hamptons
beach towns, declared a fiscal crisis last year. Rating
companies cited volatility in the sales-tax revenue the
municipalities rely on as a cause of the strain.  Rockland, 35 miles (56 kilometers) northwest of  Manhattan ,
has the lowest Moody’s Investors Service rating among New York’s
62 counties. It got permission this month to borrow $96 million
to help close a spending gap in exchange for allowing the state
comptroller to force budget changes. Investors see the efforts
as a buy signal: The extra yield on some Rockland obligations
dropped 40 percent in the weeks after its most recent sale, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The onus is on the county to fix their structural  budget
deficit  and this buys them some time and also puts more state
oversight on,” said Howard Cure, director of municipal research
at Evercore Wealth Management LLC in New York. The firm oversees
about $4.7 billion, including Nassau and Suffolk debt. “From
investors’ point of view, that’s a good thing.”  Rising Tide  As the suburbs have struggled, the state is poised for its
best bond grade since 1972 from  Standard & Poor’s  after Cuomo, a
55-year-old Democrat, won the first three consecutive on-time
budgets since 1984. Investors have responded by demanding the
least amount of extra yield on New York debt in two decades,
Bloomberg data show.  Cuomo, who faces re-election next year, has focused
economic-development efforts upstate, promoting technology
industries in the region north of Rockland and Westchester
counties. Westchester, bordering  New York City , lost its top
Moody’s grade last week, a rank it held since at least 2000.  In the last two months, Cuomo delivered $3.4 billion in
investment to the Buffalo and Utica areas hundreds of miles
northwest of New York. He says the initiatives will create
almost 2,000 jobs for research and development of atom-sized
computer chips, high-efficiency lights and solar cells. He has
also used summits to boost yogurt, tourism and production of
alcoholic beverages upstate.  Downstate Revenue  When Cuomo won his first term in 2010, he lost the eight-county region surrounding Buffalo, the base of his Republican
opponent, Carl Paladino. He won all four downstate counties.  “The state seems to be more concerned with the upstate
area,” Stephen DeGroat, Rockland County’s finance commissioner,
said by phone. “The recession had a bigger impact on the New
York City metro area counties because a bigger chunk of their
budgets was reliant on cyclical revenue like sales and mortgage
taxes.”  Downstate governments are almost three times as likely to
be in fiscal stress as those upstate, according to a September
report by state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli . Rockland was the
most-stressed municipality among the more than 1,000 reviewed.  “Each municipality faces unique challenges,” Rich
Azzopardi, a Cuomo spokesman, said by e-mail. With steps such
as curbing pension costs, “no administration has done more to
provide long-term structural relief to local governments --
from every corner of this state -- and give them the tools to
get their fiscal houses in order.”  Lower Cost  Unrelated to the deficit financing, Rockland issued $34
million of tax-free debt in October, with bond insurance, for
projects such as repairs to roads damaged by  Hurricane Sandy .  A portion maturing in October 2018 yielded 2.25 percent, or
about 0.7 percentage point above benchmark munis, Bloomberg data
show. Last week, the yield fell to 1.8 percent, for a spread of
0.41 percentage point.  Moody’s grades Rockland Baa3, one step above junk. Nassau
and Suffolk are ranked A2, five steps above junk.  The suburban crises formed during the recession that ended
in 2009 and the municipalities’ finances are just starting to
revive. Through the first half of 2013, Nassau and Rockland led
the state in sales-tax growth, DiNapoli said in August.  As the communities ringing New York City repair their
finances, the wealth of their residents has provided a cushion.
Nassau is ranked eighth, Suffolk 16th, Rockland 20th and
Westchester 33rd in median  household income  among U.S. counties,
according to Census Bureau data.  ‘Rippling Effect’  The housing market suffered losses downstate and it’s
“hard to quantify the rippling effect that had on local
governments,” Nathaalie Carey, assistant state comptroller in
the local budget division, said by phone.  In June, lawmakers approved the Rockland deficit-borrowing
bill and sent it to Cuomo, who signed it Nov. 13. The measure
benefits the county partly because it adds oversight, according
to Moody’s.  Rockland gets as much as 75 percent of local tax
collections annually from sales levies, and its mortgage-tax
revenue was more than halved by the recession and hasn’t
recovered, DeGroat said. Almost half of Rockland’s deficit can
be attributed to missing sales and mortgage-tax targets, he
said.  Most of the projections in the county’s proposed fiscal
2014 budget are “reasonable,” DiNapoli said today in a report
on the spending plan.  The county will close the deficit in part by borrowing the
$96 million by March and paying it off over 10 years, while
raising the property tax next year by almost 10 percent, DeGroat
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  