-- Russian Prison Stuns Captain of Greenpeace’s Bombed Ship
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-11-25T10:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/russian-prison-stuns-captain-of-greenpeace-s-bombed-ship.html
The captain of a Greenpeace ship
released on bail after two months of detention in a Russian
prison following an Arctic protest said he and his fellow
activists remain in shock at their treatment.  American Peter Willcox, who was also in charge of
Greenpeace’s Rainbow Warrior when it was sunk in Auckland in
1985 by a bomb planted by the French intelligence service, said
the organization again found itself in the crosshairs of a
government bent on throttling the environmental group.  “There is a similarity between the two cases,” with both
the French and Russian governments targeting Greenpeace to
prevent it from carrying out its campaigns, Willcox said by
phone yesterday from  St. Petersburg . In New Zealand, “the loss
of life was the most difficult thing for us to deal with and it
just doesn’t get any worse than that. Though I have to admit
that this, for the people involved, was quite trying.”  Russia  has faced worldwide protests and was ordered on Nov.
22 by a United Nations court to release the Arctic Sunrise and
the crew after impounding Greenpeace’s ship and initially
charging the 30 campaigners with piracy, which is punishable by
as much as 15 years in prison. Prosecutors since cut the charges
to hooliganism, which carries a maximum sentence of seven years.  French Strike  In July 1985, agents from  France ’s DGSE intelligence agency
planted a bomb on the Rainbow Warrior in the port of Auckland to
prevent it from sailing toward a nuclear-testing site, killing a
photographer on board.  “This time it was almost equally as emotional,” Willcox
said.  Russia detained 30 people from 18 countries -- 28 activists
and two journalists -- for participating in a protest at an OAO
Gazprom offshore oil platform in September after storming the
Greenpeace ship and towing it to the port of Murmansk.  “Here in international waters off Russia, we were doing
what we’ve done before and expected nothing like this -- and so
when we got towed into Murmansk, we were absolutely shocked that
they charged us with piracy, it was something that we had never
considered,” he said. The “uncertainty” of not knowing if
they faced lengthy prison terms and their isolation from the
outside world was the most difficult thing, he added.  Putin’s View  President  Vladimir Putin  said in September that while the
Greenpeace activists “clearly” aren’t pirates, they violated
international law by trying to seize a drilling platform. The
action alarmed Russian officials, who couldn’t be certain who
was trying to board the rig, Putin said.  Speaking Nov. 22 in St. Petersburg, Putin  said  Russia’s
political leadership didn’t want to meddle in the case and has
no interest in “worsening anything or extending anyone’s
detention on purpose.”  While Willcox said he was grateful to Putin for his release
on bail, the activist said he doesn’t believe the Russian leader
played any role in the arrest and prosecution of the Greenpeace
campaigners.  “I did always feel that he was not the problem, he was
observing and watching the situation,” Willcox said. “I didn’t
feel like he was the instigator of it.”  The jailed activists include citizens of the U.S.,  Finland ,
 Argentina ,  Switzerland , the U.K.,  Australia ,  Brazil ,  Canada ,
 Denmark , the Netherlands,  New Zealand , Ukraine, Russia, France,
 Italy ,  Turkey , Poland and Sweden, according to Greenpeace.  Bail Granted  After the detainees were transferred to St. Petersburg this
month, easing consular access, courts in the city last week
granted bail to 29 of them. Australian Colin Russell had his
detention extended by three months in the first bail hearing for
a foreigner. Greenpeace believes that ruling was a “mistake”
and will appeal it, spokeswoman Jessica Wilson said by e-mail.  “Because we’re out, everybody is quite optimistic about
the future, compared to a week ago,” Willcox said.  Asked if he would carry out further protests in Russia, the
Arctic Sunrise captain said that would be a tough decision to
make.  “I’m not saying I am going to be back next year and doing
the same thing over again,” he said. “This has been hard and I
don’t want to put my family through this again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  