-- Russian Metal Shares Rise on Chance of Help: Moscow Mover
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-11-25T16:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/russian-metal-shares-rise-on-chance-of-help-moscow-mover.html
Shares of Russian metal producers
rose as Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  met executives to discuss
support for an industry suffering a drop in demand and prices.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
jumped as much as 8.7 percent in Moscow trading, while OAO
Novolipetsk Steel climbed as high as 4.5 percent.  Medvedev called a meeting to discuss measures to bolster
the metals and mining industry after a slump in global economic
growth eroded consumption of commodities from nickel to coal.
Participants due to attend today included  Evraz Plc (EVR)  Chairman
Alexander Abramov, OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  owner  Igor Zyuzin  and Rusal chief
 Oleg Deripaska , according to the agenda seen by Bloomberg.  The government is ready to study compensation for interest-rate costs incurred in funding development projects, the agenda
shows. It also may consider granting loan guarantees and ease
rules on the central bank accepting company bonds as collateral.  Rusal traded up 8.1 percent at 99.44 rubles by the close in
Moscow, the most since September 2012. Novolipetsk Steel, or
NLMK, increased 2.7 percent to 54.48 rubles while OAO
Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel advanced 1.8 percent to 8.098 rubles.  “We have a bit of help from sentiment that the meeting
with Medvedev is going to yield some form of softening on
covenants or interest holidays for metals and mining,” Kirill Yankovskiy, director for equity sales at UralSib Capital in
 London , said by e-mail.  Limit Exports  The government is looking at ways to stimulate the industry
by helping to remove excess production capacity and potentially
limiting imports of some products, the document shows.  “We do not think there will necessarily be any immediate
drastic steps from the government, but having said that the
attention is clearly positive and could eventually lead to
longer-term support,” Igor Lebedinets, an analyst at VTB
Capital, said in a report.  Lower commodity demand has dragged down metal prices. Hot-rolled steel coil from former Soviet states fell in July to the
lowest price since 2009, and Russian coking-coal has dropped 20
percent this year. Aluminum sank to a four-year low in June,
prompting output cuts. Nickel touched a four-year low in July.  One company bucking the trend today is Mechel,  Russia ’s
largest producer of steelmaking coal and among the country’s
most indebted mining companies. The shares slumped as much as 19
percent in Moscow before paring losses to 3.2 percent. On Nov.
13 they tumbled 41 percent on speculation the company may
default on the $9.55 billion it owes.  Debt Relief  “Debt relief measures can be useful for Mechel and Rusal
in their talks with lenders,”  George Buzhenitsa , a Moscow-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone. Rusal had about $10
billion of net debt at the end of September and is holding talks
with lenders on debt refinancing.  Other participants scheduled to attend today’s meeting
include the owners of NLMK, OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel , OAO TMK, OAO
Severstal and Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel.  Spokesmen for Mechel, Evraz, Rusal, TMK and Norilsk
declined to comment. Natalya Timakova, a spokeswoman for
Medvedev, also declined to comment. Vedomosti newspaper reported
on the talks earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  