-- Sampson Upset Made Hawaii Basketball Tournament ESPN Slam Dunk
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-25T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/sampson-upset-made-hawaii-basketball-tournament-espn-slam-dunk.html
College basketball and sports
television mark a colorful milestone today: 30 years of coaches
wearing Hawaiian shirts at a tournament in a tiny gym that
helped turn ESPN into a 24-hour ratings and revenue machine.  The  Maui Invitational , played annually in the 2,400-seat
Lahaina Civic Center, was born two years after one of the most
stunning upsets in sports history. In 1982, the top-ranked and
unbeaten University of  Virginia , led by 7-foot-4 Ralph Sampson,
lost 77-72 in Honolulu to  Chaminade University , a Catholic
school with an enrollment of about 800 that played at one of
college basketball’s lowest levels.  There was no TV coverage of the game, played five time
zones west of  New York , and footage is limited to low-quality
video taken by the Chaminade athletic department. Three decades
later, every game of that contest’s offspring, the Maui
Invitational that runs through Nov. 27, will be shown live by
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN, which  Forbes lists  as the world’s
second-most valuable sports brand behind  Nike Inc. (NKE)   “That in a lot of ways helped ESPN grow,” Norby Williamson, ESPN’s executive vice president, said in a telephone
interview from Bristol,  Connecticut . “Way back when, you had
your prescribed times when you could see live sporting events.
With Maui having different game times, whether it was late at
night, early during the day or in the afternoon, certainly
helped ESPN on the road to legitimizing 24-7 content.”  Disney Dollars  ESPN, which started in 1979 on a handful of cable outlets,
now heads a media division that generated $20.4 billion last
year, accounting for more than 45 percent of the Disney
company’s revenue. It’s so essential to cable TV systems that it
demands -- and gets -- $5.54 a month for each household it
reaches in the U.S., compared with 13 cents for the Weather
Channel, according to media research firm SNL Kagan.  ESPN declined to say what it pays for broadcast rights to
the tournament, which the administration at Chaminade wanted to
be held on neighboring islands instead of Oahu. Initially
switched to the big island of  Hawaii , it moved to the War
Memorial Gym in Wailuku on Maui and then to Lahaina after the
Civic Center was built, because visiting teams liked the
proximity of hotels, beaches and shopping.  The Maui Invitational has boosted the Hawaiian economy by
more than $164 million in the past 30 years, according to the
Maui Visitors Bureau. Its success also helped create other early
season tournaments around the country, including the biggest
media market,  New York City .  ‘Attractive Programming’  “ESPN set up these events to generate attractive
programming for their channel,” said  Neal Pilson , a former CBS
Sports president and founder of Pilson Communications, which
advises teams and leagues. “They controlled the match-ups to
get top teams and good rivalry games. It was very smart.”  Eight schools traveled to Maui this year, with Syracuse,
 Arkansas ,  California ,  Minnesota , Baylor, Dayton and Gonzaga
joining Honolulu-based Chaminade, a perennial entrant.  Steve Skinner, chief executive officer of the event’s
organizer, Northbrook, Illinois-based KemperSports, said while
the invitational was founded around the location, the focus is
having marquee teams and challenging competition, treating
contestants as if they were in the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament.  “It also adds educational and cultural elements as well,
because most of these players have never been to Hawaii and many
of them will never go back,” Skinner said in a telephone
interview.  Team Travel  KemperSports, which manages nationally rated golf resorts
such as Bandon Dunes in Oregon and Streamsong in  Florida , has
run the Maui Invitational since 1990 through its sister company
KemperLesnik. Skinner said organizers pay for team travel and
lodging in Maui, declining to disclose the tournament’s budget.  Syracuse coach  Jim Boeheim  is returning to Maui for the
first time in 15 years. Though he’s worn them in past
tournaments like most participating coaches, he said he’ll skip
the flowered shirt for a standard school polo on the bench as
his ninth-ranked Orange highlight this year’s field.  Boeheim’s teams have a 6-0 record in Maui, winning
tournament titles in 1990 and 1998. Playing basketball and
sightseeing more than 4,500 miles from its home at the Carrier
Dome in Syracuse, New York, offers a chance for team bonding on
and off the court, he said.  “You’re there a couple extra days, you have dinners, more
time together than normal trips,” Boeheim said in a telephone
interview. “So it’s more than just concentration on basketball
for those four or five days.”  Past Champions  Duke is a five-time Maui Invitational champion, while  North
Carolina , Connecticut and  Michigan  have also won multiple
titles. Illinois defeated Butler in the final last year, after
Chaminade upset  Texas  and the Illini won their three games by an
average of 23.3 points. Last year’s tournament had a 0.3 rating
and 404,000 viewers for each game, according to ESPN figures.  Schools are limited to one appearance in a four-year span
and organizers set a limit of one team from each conference.  Syracuse this year is representing the Atlantic Coast
Conference and has a first-round game against Minnesota, a Big
Ten team coached by Richard Pitino, the son of  Rick Pitino , the
Hall of Fame coach from the University of Louisville.  Arkansas of the  Southeastern Conference  faces California of
the Pac-12, Dayton of the Atlantic 10 plays Gonzaga of the West
Coast Conference and Chaminade of the Division II Pac West takes
on Baylor of the Big 12.  More than 4,000 out-of-state visitors -- players,
officials, team personnel, media, sponsors, production crews and
fans -- will travel to Hawaii for the tournament,  with many
staying through the Thanksgiving holiday weekend.  Standout Event  Maui is the site of the PGA Tour’s Hyundai golf tournament
and events in the Xterra Adventures extreme-sports series. The
basketball tournament’s longevity makes it special, “an
Energizer bunny that keeps on going,” said Terryl Vencl of the
Maui Visitors Bureau.  The games are played in a venue more akin to a high school
gym than the 49,262-seat Carrier Dome. The arena, with tight
confines and loud crowds, is one of the tournament’s charms,
organizers said.  “It is kind of a throwback,” Skinner said. “So much of
college sports have become huge arenas and football stadiums.
This really is kind of the way the game started in small gyms.
Roll the ball in the middle of the court and go after it.”  The vibe for the Maui Invitational might be as different as
the venue, Williamson said, and it’s worked for ESPN.  “Most coaches are micromanagers and control freaks, and
especially early in the season, you want things to go right,”
he said. “But you get out there and it’s just a different vibe
because it is Hawaii. People are just a little more relaxed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  