-- Samsung Preferreds Jump as Kospi Cash Pot Fattens: Korea Markets
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-11-25T09:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/samsung-preferreds-jump-as-kospi-cash-pot-fattens-korea-markets.html
South Korean preferred shares are
beating common stocks by the most on record as surging cash
holdings boost the outlook for dividend payouts by Samsung
Electronics Co. and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   The nation’s five-largest preferred shares jumped an
average 36 percent in Seoul this year, while the same companies’
common  stock  dropped 5.8 percent as investors said voting rights
are becoming less important. Preferreds, which give holders
higher payouts without influence over how the business is run,
still trade at an average  discount  of 51 percent to common
shares and have dividend yields about twice as large.  Companies in South Korea’s benchmark Kospi index spent more
than a decade building a $150 billion cash hoard in the wake of
the Asian financial crisis, giving them a larger pot with which
to reward  investors . The advantage of holding common stock is
diminishing as President Park Geun Hye’s administration pledges
to crack down on corporate crime and block new cross-shareholdings, according to Franklin Templeton Investments.  “In the past, nobody looked at preferred stocks in
Korea,” Moo Il Jung, a money manager at Franklin Templeton,
which oversees about $8 billion in South Korea, said by phone
from Seoul on Nov. 21. “The rally is expected to continue with
more investors betting on them.”  Cash Hoard  The need for South Korean companies to stockpile cash is
abating as the won trades near the strongest level in two years,
the economy expands at the fastest pace since 2011 and analysts
predict  Kospi (KOSPI)  index operating  earnings  will grow at a 23 percent
pace in the next 12 months. The nation’s currency lost half its
value in 1997 and the economy contracted as much as 7.3 percent
at the height of the financial crisis.  “The situation now is different,” Julian Mayo, who helps
manage about $2.5 billion in emerging markets as the co-chief
investment officer at Charlemagne Capital Ltd. in  London , said
by e-mail on Nov. 19. “Balance sheets are stronger.”  South Korean preferred shares have outpaced returns on
common shares by the most since pricing for all the biggest
securities became available in 2003. This year’s mean advance of
36 percent compares with an average increase of 7.7 percent in
global counterparts with a market value of at least $100
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Brazil ’s state-owned oil producer, climbed 5.9
percent while  Germany ’s Volkswagen AG rose 13 percent.  Relative Performance  “The attractiveness of the discount on preferred shares
has piqued investors’ interest” in South Korea, Samir Shah, an
investment manager at Advance Emerging Capital in London, said
by e-mail on Nov. 12. His firm has invested in the Weiss Korea
Opportunity Fund, which buys South Korean preferred stock.  Hyundai’s preferred traded at 122,500 won last week and
paid a 2012 dividend of 1,950 won per share. The company’s
common stock was priced at 253,000 won with a payout of 1,900
won.  The Kospi rose 0.5 percent to 2,015.98 at the close in
 Seoul  after gaining less than 0.1 percent last week. Samsung’s
preferred shares increased 1.8 percent today, while Hyundai’s
added 0.4 percent. The won strengthened 0.3 percent against the
dollar last week and the yield on 10-year government notes
increased seven basis points to 3.67 percent.  The discount on South Korean preferred shares has narrowed
after this year’s rally. Samsung’s are valued at a 32 percent
discount to the company’s common stock, versus an average
difference of 37 percent during the past five years. Hyundai’s
gap has  narrowed  to 52 percent from an average 66 percent, while
 LG Chem Ltd. (051910) ’s has shrunk to 50 percent from 64 percent.  Bigger Payouts  While Samsung Electronics said this month it may boost the
dividend yield on its shares, some investors were disappointed
by the size of the proposed increase.  The world’s largest smartphone maker said on Nov. 6 it may
lift dividends to 1 percent of its average stock  price , up from
about 0.6 percent last year. Payouts for the company’s preferred
stock have typically been 50 won per share higher than for the
common, which fell 2.3 percent on the day Samsung announced its
dividend plan.  Overseas investors are increasingly focused on efforts by
South Korean businesses to return cash to shareholders, Lim Soo Gyoon, an analyst at Samsung Securities Co., said by phone on
Nov. 19.  Companies in the Kospi gauge lifted their holdings of cash
and near-cash items by 12 percent in 2012 to the highest level
since Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1992. That compares
with an increase of about 8 percent for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index. The emerging gauge has a dividend yield of 2.7
percent, versus 1.2 percent for the Kospi.  Corporate Crime  Samsung Electronics had about $17.7 billion of cash at the
end of last year. The company’s preferred stock has advanced 16
percent in 2013, versus a 4.7 percent drop in the common.
Preferred shares of Hyundai Motor, which had $6.35 billion of
cash, have surged 77 percent this year while the common rose 16
percent. The 1.6 percent dividend yield on Hyundai’s preferred
is twice as big as the 0.75 percent payout on common shares of
the nation’s biggest automaker.  “Preferred stocks are being re-evaluated,” said Hoon Lee,
an analyst at  Korea  Investment & Securities Co. who recommends
preferred shares of Samsung Electronics, Hyundai Motor and LG
Chem, the nation’s biggest chemical maker.  Expectations that corporate governance in South Korea will
improve is also driving the rally in preferreds, according to
Midas International Asset Management Ltd. President Park, who
took office in February, has pledged to strengthen sentences for
corporate crimes and wants to restrict presidential pardons for
offenses committed by major shareholders and corporate
executives, according to her official website.  Transparency Push  The nation’s Fair Trade Commission is seeking parliamentary
approval for a bill banning new cross-shareholdings, FTC
Chairman Noh Dae Lae said in a Nov. 21 meeting with business
leaders, according to spokesman Kim Joon Bom. Families have used
the strategy for decades to control industrial groups known as
chaebol with only minority stakes.  “More transparency means there is less need for practicing
voting rights,” said Heo Pil Seok, the chief executive officer
at Midas International, which oversees about $7.9 billion. He
recommended preferred shares of “global companies with good
balance sheets” such as Samsung Electronics and Hyundai Motor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  