-- Saputo Raises Bid for Warrnambool Cheese to $472 Million
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-11-25T07:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/saputo-raises-warrnambool-bid-to-472-million-in-three-way-fight.html
Saputo Inc. (SAP) ,  Canada ’s largest milk
processor, raised its offer for  Warrnambool Cheese & Butter
Factory Co. (WCB)  to A$515 million ($472 million), beating two rival
bids for  Australia ’s oldest dairy producer.  Saputo will pay A$9.20 cash a share, up from A$9 a share,
on condition it gains more than 50 percent of Warrnambool, the
Montreal-based company said today in a statement. The offer
trumps a A$9 bid from Murray Goulburn Cooperative Co. and a cash
and share offer from  Bega Cheese Ltd. (BGA)   The three-way contest for 125-year-old Warrnambool, based
near the town in Victoria that bears its name, has more than
doubled the target’s market value in the two months since Bega,
its largest shareholder, made an initial offer. Bidders are
pursuing greater scale to help them tap rising demand for dairy
produce, including milk powder, in  Asia ’s emerging nations.  Saputo’s new offer was “simpler, more certain and
potentially more valuable” than the previous one, which
Warrnambool’s board of directors recommended to shareholders,
the company said in a separate statement.  Warrnambool rose 2 percent to A$9.23 at the close of
trading in Sydney.  Warrnambool, which recommended Saputo’s A$9 a share bid,
will hold information sessions with shareholders and and
suppliers this week, which will be attended by Saputo
executives, the Australian company said today in a statement.  Japan’s Kirin  Bega  holds  18 percent of Warrnambool, maker of brands such
as Sungold milk and Great Ocean Road cheese, and Murray Goulburn
owns 17 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bega’s stock closed at A$4.67 today, valuing its proposal
at A$9.005 for each Warrnambool share it doesn’t own. owns 17
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan ’s Kirin Holdings Co. bought a 9.99 percent stake in
Warrnambool last month, seeking to protect an arrangement under
which the producer supplies at least 12,000 metric tons of
cheddar each year for its Australian unit’s Coon and Cracker
Barrel cheese brands. Fonterra Cooperative Group, the world’s
largest dairy exporter, said Nov. 1 it had acquired a 6 percent
stake in New South Wales state-based Bega.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  