-- Saudi Arabia Says Iran Accord First Step in Ending Nuclear Plans
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-11-25T16:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/saudi-arabia-says-iran-accord-first-step-in-ending-nuclear-plans.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest
oil exporter, said  Iran ’s accord with world powers was a “first
step” in preventing the country from developing nuclear
weapons.  The agreement is a “step toward reaching a comprehensive
resolution to the Iranian nuclear program,” the official  Saudi
Press Agency  said today, citing a statement after the kingdom’s
weekly cabinet meeting. The Middle East and Gulf region should
be “free of all weapons of mass destruction, including nuclear
weapons,” it said.  The accord signed in Geneva yesterday was the first major
breakthrough since 2003 in the deadlock over  Iran’s nuclear
program . The dispute has raised concerns about a nuclear arms
race in the oil-rich region and deepened the rift between Shiite
and  Sunni Muslims . Saudi Arabia, the Gulf’s leading Sunni power,
and Shiite-ruled Iran are fighting a proxy war in  Syria , backing
opposite sides in the civil war.  Brent crude  led energy prices lower after the interim
accord, sliding as much as 2.7 percent in the first decline for
four days.  Iran’s nuclear ambitions added to concerns among the Sunni
Gulf states that the Islamic Republic was seeking to dominate
the region, which holds three-fifths of the world’s oil
supplies. Saudi Arabia accuses Iran of fomenting unrest among
Shiites in Bahrain and elsewhere in the Gulf.  King Abdullah 
urged the U.S. to attack Iran to “cut off the head of the
snake,” American diplomats reported in cables released by
WikiLeaks in 2010.  Never Expected  Saudi Arabia and its Gulf allies never expected that Iran
would agree to dismantle its nuclear program, as  Israel  has
demanded, and they’ll be satisfied with a deal that “makes sure
Iran will not be capable of developing nuclear military
capabilities,”  Mustafa Alani , an analyst at the Gulf Research
Center in Geneva, said in a phone interview today.  He said the problem for Saudi leaders may come over Syria,
where Iran has helped to prop up President Bashar al-Assad’s
government, because “I’m not sure how much pressure can be put
on Iran after this.”  Under the deal, Iran must improve cooperation with United
Nations monitors, neutralize its stockpile of uranium enriched
to 20 percent levels, and halt work on some of its nuclear
installations. In return, it will be allowed to repatriate some
frozen assets and resume trade in gold, autos and
petrochemicals.  Saudi Arabia, a longtime American ally, is more concerned
about a shift in Gulf power balances than the nuclear issue,
Khalid al-Dakhil, a political sociologist in  Riyadh , said by
phone.  ‘Political Aspect’  “There’s going to be a political aspect of this new
relationship between the U.S. and Iran,” he said.“It’s about
the Iranian role in the region.”  Saudi Arabia has called for Middle Eastern countries to be
allowed to develop nuclear power for peaceful means, and plans
to produce electricity from its own first nuclear plant by 2020.
The kingdom may spend $100 billion to build 17 nuclear reactors
over the coming two decades, the Saudi Press Agency reported
last year.  The Iranian nuclear agreement may “ensure the right of all
countries in the region” to pursue atomic energy for peaceful
means, the cabinet said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  