-- SNB’s Jordan Sees No Reason to Remove Swiss Franc Cap
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-11-25T18:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/snb-s-jordan-sees-no-reason-to-remove-swiss-franc-cap.html
The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN) ’s cap on the
franc remains appropriate given the currency’s strength and
economic risks in the euro area, President Thomas Jordan said.  “We believe the franc is still highly valued and there is
no risk of inflation,” said Jordan, speaking at a business
reception in his home town of Biel,  Switzerland . “The minimum
 exchange rate  remains indispensable to ensure  price stability  in
Switzerland.”  The Zurich-based central bank set a cap of 1.20 per euro on
the franc in September 2011, citing the risk of deflation and a
recession. It has promised unlimited currency interventions to
defend the cap and Jordan repeated that commitment today.  While consumer prices are falling, the Swiss  economy  has
escaped an economic slump and managed to stay unscathed from the
debt crisis that has afflicted the neighboring euro area, its
biggest trading partner.  “The crisis hasn’t yet been fully overcome” in the 17-nation currency bloc, Jordan said.  The SNB has accumulated 434.7 billion Swiss francs ($475
billion) in  foreign-currency reserves  in its campaign to defend
the ceiling on the franc. The central bank hasn’t had to
intervene in  currency markets  for more than a year, policy
makers have said.  Because of the central bank’s loose policy, the Swiss  real-estate market  is in the midst of its strongest accent in two
decades. The SNB has repeatedly warned of overheating, and was
behind the government’s implementation of a capital buffer for
banks to guard against mortgage writedowns that came into effect
in September.  Jordan said today that it is still too early to say whether
the capital buffer is proving effective.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  