-- South African Police Will Probe Krejcir Assault Allegations
-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2013-11-25T14:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/south-african-police-will-probe-krejcir-assault-allegations.html
South Africa ’s Independent Police
Investigative Directorate will probe allegations by Czech
fugitive Radovan Krejcir that he was assaulted by police after
his Nov. 22 arrest on attempted murder and kidnapping charges.  Krejcir is wanted in his home country on fraud and
conspiracy to commit murder charges and is fighting extradition
to the  Czech Republic , where he fled police while they were
searching his house in  Prague  in 2005.  He filed a case of common assault against police at the
Protea Glen police station in Johannesburg, the service said in
a posting on its Twitter account late yesterday. Krejcir says he
was shocked with a taser gun and suffocated with a plastic bag
following the arrest, according to Eyewitness News, a
Johannesburg-based website.  He was previously questioned in the murder investigation of
crime boss Cyril Beeka, who was killed in a drive-by shooting in
 Cape Town  in 2011. He was also charged with fraud over
allegations he received 4.5 million rand ($446,000) from an
insurance company by falsely claiming that he had cancer.  Krejcir fled to the Seychelles from the Czech Republic and
arrived in South Africa in 2007. In 2005 a number of Czech
police officials were fired or resigned after his escape,
according to iDnes, an Internet news service.  He survived an attempt on his life at the Bedfordview shop
earlier this year when a remotely controlled device fired at him
from an empty car, the South African Press Association reported.  Krejcir won the right to be transferred to a private
hospital from prison because of a chronic illness condition,
Johannesburg’s ENCA television channel said in a twitter
posting. A bail application today was postponed until Dec. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  