-- South Carolina Issues Bonds to Lure Boeing: Muni Deal
-- B y   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-11-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/south-carolina-issues-bonds-to-lure-boeing-muni-deal.html
South Carolina will sell $85 million
in debt this week to help  Boeing Co. (BA)  expand a plant as the state
jockeys to manufacture the company’s largest twin-engine jet.  Proceeds from the general-obligation bonds, part of a $146
million issuance, will help cover land costs for Chicago-based
Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner plant in North Charleston. The world’s
largest aircraft maker plans to invest $1 billion over the next
eight years to increase capacity, purchase 320 acres and add an
information-technology center.  South Carolina is among states vying to produce Boeing’s
777X after the company’s largest union in  Washington  rejected a
contract that it said would have gouged workers. Labor
organizations have argued that moving work to the South is meant
to undermine them and drive wages down. A  South Carolina 
official said the company is capitalizing on the state’s new
prowess in the field.  “Boeing’s presence here can serve to spur the growth of
the aerospace sector in the state, which already has more than
200 aerospace-related companies,” Bobby Hitt, the South
Carolina secretary of commerce, said in an e-mailed statement.  New Skirmish  South Carolina has a top rating of Aaa from Moody’s
Investors Service. The state last sold 10-year general
obligation bonds in April 2012, which traded at a yield of about
2 percent, in line with benchmarks for that date, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The sale includes $26.5 million for highway refunding
bonds, $16.5 million for the University of South Carolina in
Columbia, $15 million for Lander University, which is about 80
miles (129 kilometers) west of there, and $3.4 million for
 Winthrop University  in Rock Hill.  The securities will go on sale tomorrow, and the economic
development bonds for Boeing reach final maturity in 2023.  The debt issue is another chapter in a long-running fight
involving the company, which has been synonymous with  Seattle ,
where it was founded in 1916.  Federal Case  In 2011, the  National Labor Relations Board  filed a
complaint against Boeing over the opening of the South Carolina
plant, its first outside the Puget Sound region. Nonunion
workers there receive $17 an hour, about $10 less than the
organized workers in Everett, Washington, according to the 
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.  The case, which was withdrawn that year, charged the
company with illegal retaliation against the union. Republicans
said the Obama administration was interfering with the right of
businesses to locate where they please.  If Boeing, Washington’s largest private employer, selects
another location to manufacture the 777X jetliners, it would
hurt the state’s second-level credit grade of Aa1 from Moody’s
Investors Service, according to a report by the ratings company.  “After their bitter experience with the rejection of the
contract in Washington state, I think that there’s a pretty good
chance of them moving,” said  Gary Chaison , a professor of
industrial relations at  Clark University  in Worcester,
 Massachusetts . “To some degree, it almost looks like a race-to-the bottom type situation, where one state is competing against
another state to lure an operation.”  ‘Mutual Benefit’  The planemaker employs more than 6,000 people in South
Carolina, after breaking ground in 2009. South Carolina agreed
in 2010 to issue $270 million in bonds to offset Boeing’s
infrastructure costs and help pay for air terminals.  “We have a long and successful future in South Carolina,
and the partnership we have with the state continues to be a
fundamental part of our success here -- and a source of
substantial mutual benefit,” said Candy Eslinger, a Boeing
spokeswoman in North Charleston, said in an e-mail.  South Carolina joins issuers from Seattle to  New York 
offering $1.3 billion in long-term debt this week, down from 8
billion last week. The  bond market  will be closed Nov. 28 for
Thanksgiving.  Individuals pulled $770 million from municipal-bond focused
mutual funds in the week through Nov. 20, according to Lipper US
Fund Flows data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Priya Anand in New York at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  