-- Spy World Links, Obama Ties Stoke Concern Over NSA Panel
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-11-25T18:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/spy-world-links-plus-obama-ties-stoke-concern-about-nsa-review.html
Working in secret like the programs
they’re reviewing, five men with high-level security clearances
and ties to President  Barack Obama  will soon deliver a report
that’s likely to reshape U.S. government surveillance.  The group, which is scrutinizing the data harvesting by the
National Security Agency, relies on the government’s spy office
-- the very people it’s supposed to be examining -- for its
staff and logistics. While that may be the safest way to handle
sensitive materials, it also limits contrarian viewpoints, say
people alarmed by the surveillance disclosures.  “This is a panel of administration insiders and therefore
lacks credibility as a panel of independent reviewers,” said
Sascha Meinrath, director of the Open Technology Institute at
the  New America Foundation  in  Washington , who participated in a
Sept. 9 meeting with the review group.  Credibility is vital because recommendations by the Review
Group on Intelligence and Communications, if adopted by Obama,
could have consequences for Google Inc., Microsoft Corp.,
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Apple Inc., among other technology companies.  Companies are facing the loss of billions of dollars in
overseas business, stricter regulations and trade barriers, and
erosion of consumer trust amid revelations the NSA hacked into
private networks to spy on foreigners and Americans. Private
companies also have been compelled to share data while being
barred from disclosing details to their customers.  Any recommendations also are likely to affect  U.S. foreign
policy . European allies, with whom Obama is negotiating a trade
pact, have reacted with concern that the NSA’s work reached
beyond tracking terrorists and into commerce and trade.  International Furor  The panel was created in August in response to an
international furor after leaks from former government
contractor Edward Snowden, who revealed the extent of
communications and data swept up by the NSA’s programs.  Panel members are Richard Clarke, a former U.S.
cybersecurity adviser; Michael Morell, a former deputy CIA
director; Geoffrey Stone, a  University of Chicago  law professor;
Cass Sunstein, a Harvard Law School professor who once worked in
the administration; and Peter Swire, who served on Obama’s
National Economic Council.  “They’re driven by an earnest desire to do right that is
through the lens of an incredibly biased perspective,” Meinrath
said. “They either are directly or have been part of the
intelligence community or the Obama administration.”  Stakeholder Concerns  The panel’s final report, due to the president by Dec. 15,
follows interim findings delivered orally at the White House
earlier this month and two private meetings held in September,
according to participants.  The options for changes at the NSA, floated by
stakeholders, lawmakers and the administration, cover everything
from limiting the scope of the surveillance programs to
expanding public disclosure and strengthening oversight.  Two qualifications each panelist had on his side when Obama
tapped him: a security clearance to review the NSA’s classified
programs -- and being steeped in Washington policy or politics.  One example of those ties: At a Nov. 14 awards banquet for
the Middle East Institute, Clarke, who is chairman of the board
of governors, was hailed by Obama’s National Security Adviser
 Susan Rice . She told the audience that he had been her “first
boss in government” during the Clinton administration and “a
wonderful mentor to me.”  Clarke is chief executive officer of Good Harbor Security
Risk Management in Washington, which has advised
telecommunications, utility and private-equity firms.  Campaign Supporter  Sunstein, an Obama campaign supporter, served as the
administrator of the White House Office of Information and
Regulatory Affairs until last year. Sunstein, a Bloomberg View
columnist, is also married to Obama’s United Nations ambassador,
Samantha Power.  Stone, a former faculty colleague of Obama’s at the
University of Chicago law school, also was involved in an effort
to consider establishing the president’s library at the campus,
according to a 2012 story in  Politico .  Swire, who also served in the Clinton administration as a
privacy expert, was tapped last year as co-chairman of a World
Wide Web Consortium working group charged with defining a
protocol to protect privacy.  The panelists declined to be interviewed. The Office of the
Director of National Intelligence said they won’t answer
questions until the report is complete.  ‘Immense Experience’  The agency declined to say how many times the panel had
met, whether panelists had access to technical consultants to
discuss classified programs, and whether they were required to
disclose financial or professional interests that posed
potential conflicts of interests.  Caitlin Hayden, a National Security Council spokeswoman,
said the members “bring to the task immense experience in
national security, intelligence, oversight, privacy and civil
liberties.”  She said they will advise Obama on how the U.S. can use its
technical collection capabilities in a way that “protects our
national security and advances our foreign policy while
respecting our commitment to privacy.”  At a fundraiser last night in  Seattle , Obama mentioned the
NSA disclosures as one of the challenges to the country that
have helped make “people feel discouraged or concerned about
whether or not we can continue to make progress.”  Technical Experts  Christopher Soghoian, principal technologist with the
 American Civil Liberties Union ’s Speech, Privacy and Technology
Project in Washington, said the omission of technical experts on
the panel is his biggest worry.  “It’s going to be very difficult for the board to do their
job unless they have technologists working for them,” he said.
“How do you perform effective oversight? How do you ask the
right questions?”  While panel deliberations are secret, public comments
posted to the website of the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence, which provides the panel’s two staff members and
other logistical support, reflect concerns including those of
major Internet companies.  Revelations of NSA spying may cost the U.S. cloud industry
as much as $35 billion by 2016, the  Information Technology
Industry Council , which represents more than 50 companies,
including Google and Facebook, and the Software Information
Industry Association told the panel in a letter.  Losing Market  They cited an August report by the  Information Technology 
and Innovation Foundation, which predicted the U.S. would lose
as much as 20 percent of the foreign market for cloud computing
to competitors as a result of the NSA’s surveillance programs.  That forecast was based partly on a survey by the Cloud
Security Alliance, in which 56 percent of non-U.S. residents
said they were less likely to use a U.S.-based cloud computing
service; 10 percent canceled work with one after the NSA leaks.  The two organizations also told the panel the NSA programs
“could serve as the pretext for protectionist measures in
foreign markets,” as a way to advance domestic competitors.  “I know I have no say in your country’s politics,” said
one small-business owner from the  Philippines  in another posting
on the Office of the Director of National Intelligence website.  “I would just like to say that, prior to this recent
disclosure, we were going to have our webpage and e-mail server
hosted by a US company, either Microsoft or Google. Now we are
discouraged from doing so and have made inquiries with ‘cloud
providers’ based in  Europe  and  Asia .”  Placing Operatives  Technologists and civil libertarians have urged the panel
to determine to what extent the NSA is seeking to subvert
encryption technology to conduct its surveillance, and whether
the NSA is placing operatives inside companies.  They also are seeking expanded audits of NSA programs for
legal compliance and accuracy, and more disclosure of how much
information on individual U.S. residents is being collected and
how it is secured against misuse.  One option the administration is considering is separating
the Pentagon’s Cyber Command from the NSA. The military command,
which can carry out cyber-attacks, is charged with protecting
U.S. networks. The NSA seeks to penetrate those same networks.
Under the current structure, Army General Keith Alexander heads
both organizations.  Trade groups are asking the panel to look at allowing
affected companies to report more about the number of government
orders they receive to turn over information and the number of
people and businesses affected.  User Trust  Since the NSA revelations, companies “have had serious
problems with user trust” and being unable to describe the
volume of the government’s demands “only exacerbates the
distrust,” the Computer and Communications Industry Association
told the panel in a filing.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and critic of the
NSA’s records collection, said he’s withholding judgment on the
panel until he sees the results.  “The case for meaningful surveillance reform continues to
be made every day, however, by the declassified documents
showing the extent to which intelligence officials violated
privacy protections,” Wyden said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  