-- Statoil to Be Selective in Picking Exploration Targets
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-11-25T17:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/statoil-to-be-selective-in-picking-exploration-targets.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s biggest oil
and gas producer, will be more discriminating in picking
exploration targets to reduce risk and control spending.  Statoil will concentrate on areas where it has made recent
discoveries including  Angola ,  Tanzania ,  Brazil , the Gulf of
 Mexico , Canada and Norway, Head of Exploration Tim Dodson said
today. It will probably exit countries such as  Mozambique .  “We’ll be much more selective in taking on other new
opportunities,” Dodson said in Oslo. “We can choose what we
move forward with, and of course we will be more selective on
that because we want to manage our capital investments.”  Statoil’s exploration resulted in 1.5 billion barrels of
new resources last year and almost 900 million barrels so far in
2013, the most of any energy producer in terms of conventional
output, company data show. Statoil has also sold Norwegian
assets and borrowed money to fund rising spending and dividends
amid escalating costs for the industry.  Investment in exploration next year will be similar to that
in 2013, when the company plans to spend $3.75 billion on about
60 wells, according to Dodson, who said that quantity may fall
in 2014. Statoil previously forecast average capital expenditure
of $21 billion a year from 2013 to 2016; the figure this year is
more like $19 billion.  As many as 25 of next year’s wells will be drilled off
 Norway , according to the company, which is  67 percent-owned  by
the country’s government and based in Stavanger.  Africa, U.S.  Statoil will also operate two wells off Angola next year,
two off the Faroe Islands and one or two in the U.S. Gulf of
Mexico, Dodson said. It will drill six off Tanzania,
international exploration chief Nick Maden said earlier today.  As Statoil hones its exploration targets, it may leave
areas where wells have proven unsuccessful. The East African
country of Mozambique, where it drilled a dry well this year,
“could be an exit candidate,” Dodson said.  “There’s not really any point in loading up and loading up
with lots of exploration, especially high-risk stuff, when you
basically have got good stuff to follow up on and only a certain
amount of capital available,” he said. “It’s a balancing game
between how quick do you grow against how much value do you
create at one point in time. We want to make sure that we’re
financially robust to go through any kind of cycle.”  One area of focus will be eastern  Canada , where Statoil is
looking at additional drilling near its offshore Bay du Nord
discovery from 2015. “There’s plenty more to be done in that
area, there’s a lot of new structures, a lot of new prospects,”
Dodson said.  Statoil said last month it’s not “wedded” to its goal of
increasing production by a quarter to 2.5 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day by the end of the decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  