-- Swiss Come to Their Senses on Soak-the-Rich Vote
-- B y   J o s e f   J o f f e
-- 2013-11-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/swiss-come-to-their-senses-on-soak-the-rich-vote.html
Some of my best friends are very
rich -- people with condos on Central Park West and tastefully
refurbished palazzi in Italy. The puzzle: Why do so many of them
vote Democratic or  praise  the high-taxing European welfare
state?  How rich? When one of them had an art lover on the phone,
who was offering to pay $30 million for a famous painting, he
refused. Frustrated, the would-be buyer groaned: “Look, man, I
just more than doubled the going price for this piece, and you
still won’t take it. Why not?”  My friend’s riposte: “Right now, I am the only man in the
world who owns this unique painting. If I sold it to you, I
would just be another guy with 30 million bucks.”  This art-hoarding friend belongs to what we might call the
Compassionate Croesus Crowd, the American version of la gauche
caviar, the sturgeon-roe-gobbling left in France.  In Paris, such people live in the 16th arrondissement. In
New York, they dwell along the edges of Central Park -- with
extra homes in East Hampton, New York, and Vail, Colorado -- or
on Russian Hill in San Francisco.  Karl Marx  would stick them with “false consciousness.”
They go against their own class interest, which is to amass and
to stash. Some rich people, such as  Bill Gates , put their money
where their heart is, and give away billions. But some of my
American friends also donate to the Democratic Party and dream
of a European tax-and-redistribute state.  Atlantic Divide  Friendly souls will say: They want to give back. Cynics
will argue: Their own riches are nicely sheltered from the
taxman. Or because they feel guilty when they compare themselves
with the toiling masses. Or because they fear the revolt of the
underclass, recalling the burning U.S. cities of the 1960s and
’70s.  A sharp divide separates the  two sides  of the Atlantic. In
the U.S., such benevolent conversations remain restricted to
silver-laden dinner tables. It is a lot easier to become
superrich in short order in the U.S. -- and to keep the hoard
from a grasping state. So, there is a bit of make-believe in
these earnest disquisitions on part-and-share.  In Europe, the debate is for real. The postwar welfare
state takes about half of gross domestic product -- 5 points
less in Germany, 5 points more in France. After the Crash of
2008, “soak the rich” has become the shibboleth of the land.
There is nary a political party that doesn’t call for a special
tax on the wealthy. These levies will undoubtedly be blessed in
parliament, even in Germany, which, after France, has the
second-best  Gini coefficient  (the index measuring equality of
income distribution after taxes and transfers) among Europe’s
large countries, according to Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development statistics.  The most striking test has been in Switzerland, whose  Gini 
coefficient is just a little worse than Germany’s. What? This
shiny tax haven -- at least until the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service broke down the doors? This low-tax paradise harboring
some the largest multinationals in the world?  In March, a national referendum fired a first shot against
executive pay. Shareholders will get to determine chief-executive compensation. Another initiative is on the table. It
would grant a basic, unconditional income of 2,500 francs
($2,700) for each adult. A third, the so-called 1:12 Initiative,
sought to cap executive remuneration at 12 times the wage of the
lowest-paid worker in the company.  On Sunday, the sensible Swiss -- by almost two-thirds --
 voted  to stop this foray. Multinationals such as  Nestle SA  and
 Novartis AG  can now happily stay at home rather than having to
relocate to the U.S. or U.K.  Capital Flight  How else would they compete for the most promising in the
global market for talent? As  Marx  famously lectured, “Capital
knows no fatherland.” If the initiative had passed, the
companies might have remained in Switzerland, but their head
honchos would have departed in short order.  One can’t fail to be sympathetic to such populist revolts;
after all, pay and bonuses, certainly outside Switzerland, have
climbed to obscene levels. But distributive justice and economic
efficiency make for an uneasy couple. Leaving pay in place and
taxing it away won’t help, either, as long as brains can move
across borders. Alas, the poor don’t get richer by making the
rich poorer.  The French have tried this, by  imposing  exorbitant payroll
taxes on business and towering top rates on high earners, while
letting wages rise above the growth in productivity. This has
stuck them with some of the highest unit-labor costs in Europe.
This munificence hasn’t made the country as such any richer.
Italy comes in second; after France, it must bear the highest
social charges as a fraction of pretax labor costs.  Both are the sick men of Europe -- with low or no growth,
and with double-digit unemployment rates that are twice as high
as in Germany, which has held wages and taxes  in check . So far.  ( Josef Joffe  is editor of Die Zeit in Hamburg and a  fellow 
at the Institute for International Studies and at the Hoover
Institution, both at Stanford University. He is the author, most
recently, of “ The Myth of America’s Decline .”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Josef Joffe at  joffe@zeit.de .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 