-- Swiss Stocks Rebound From Weekly Loss on Iran Deal
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-11-25T08:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/swiss-stocks-rebound-from-weekly-loss-on-iran-deal.html
Swiss stocks  advanced, after the
benchmark index posted its biggest weekly loss since early
October, as Iran’s accord with world powers to limit its nuclear
program reduced political risks for investors.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  climbed after Natixis SA advised investors to
buy the stock.  Tornos Holding AG (TOHN)  rose 3.9 percent after the
machine-tools maker said investor Walter Fust made a takeover
offer.  Partners Group Holding AG (PGHN)  fell 2.4 percent as Mediobanca
SpA cut its price estimate for the money manager by 6 percent.  The  SMI (SMI)  added 0.5 percent to 8,294.8 at 9:38 a.m. in
Zurich, snapping a four-day drop. It has surged 22 percent this
year, heading for the biggest annual rally since 2005, as
central banks around the world pledged to leave  interest rates 
low. The Swiss Performance Index also climbed 0.5 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 38 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Iran agreed to limit its nuclear program in exchange for as
much as $7 billion in relief from economic sanctions for six
months. The Asian nation and the six countries it entered a pact
with -- the U.S., U.K., Germany, France, Russia and China -- aim
to conclude a comprehensive deal within six months.  The accord is the first major breakthrough in the dispute
over Iran’s nuclear program since 2003. Questions over the
purpose of that plan has deepened the rift between Shiite and
Sunni Muslims in the  Middle East , sparked threats of military
action by the U.S. and Israel, and raised concerns that the oil-rich region was heading for a nuclear arms race.  In the U.S., a report at 10 a.m.  New York  time may show
that pending sales previously owned houses rose 1.1 percent in
October, rebounding from a 5.6 percent decline the previous
month, according to the median forecast of 34 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Vannucci at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net  