-- U.K. Stocks Advance After Iran Agrees on Nuclear Limits
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-11-25T17:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/u-k-stocks-advance-after-iran-agrees-on-nuclear-limits.html
U.K. stocks  advanced, following a
three-week decline, as  Iran ’s nuclear deal with world powers
reduced the potential for conflict in the Middle East.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  and  EasyJet
Plc (EZJ)  climbed at least 2 percent, pushing a gauge of travel and
leisure companies higher, as oil prices slid.  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  rose
after Morgan Stanley advised investors to buy shares in the
world’s second-biggest brewer.  Petrofac Ltd. (PFC)  added 1.8 percent
after the oil-and-gas engineering company obtained a joint $2.1
billion contract in Oman.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 20.32 points, or 0.3 percent, to
6,694.62 at the close in London. The gauge lost 0.3 percent last
week after Federal Reserve minutes showed the central bank may
reduce the pace of its stimulus in coming months as the economy
improves. The broader FTSE All-Share Index added 0.4 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.5 percent.  “The Iran nuclear accord has gone a long way to easing
fears over Middle East tension, and has subsequently helped
lower  oil prices ,” Alastair McCaig, a market analyst at IG in
London, wrote in e-mailed comments. “IAG appears to be best
placed to cut costs judging by its share price movement.”  Iran agreed to limit its nuclear program in exchange for as
much as $7 billion in relief from economic sanctions over six
months. Iran and the six countries it has entered a pact with --
the U.S., U.K., Germany, France, Russia and China -- aim to
conclude a comprehensive deal during that time.  First Breakthrough  The accord is the first major breakthrough in the dispute
over  Iran’s nuclear program  since 2003. Questions over the
purpose of that plan had increased the threat of conflict in the
 Middle East , sparked threats of military action by the U.S. and
Israel, and raised concerns that the oil-rich region was heading
for a nuclear arms race.  In the U.S., a report from the National Association of
Realtors showed an  index of pending sales  of previously owned
houses decreased 0.6 percent in October, following a revised 4.6
percent drop a month earlier. Economists had forecast an
increase of 1 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  The volume of shares changing hands in FTSE 100-listed
companies was 30 percent lower than the average in the last 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  IAG climbed 2.8 percent to 372.8 pence. EasyJet added 2.1
percent to 1,434 pence, its highest price since Aug. 5. Carnival
Plc rose 2 percent to 2,272 pence. A gauge of travel and leisure
companies advanced 1.6 percent, posting the biggest gain among
the  19 industry groups  in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, the
regional benchmark.  Brent crude  dropped, leading energy prices
from gasoline to heating oil lower.  SABMiller, Petrofac  SABMiller increased 1.1 percent to 3,254.5 pence. Morgan
Stanley upgraded its recommendation on the brewer to overweight,
equivalent to buy, from equal weight. The brokerage cited the
potential for improving returns and higher cash returns to
shareholders.  “Valuations are neutral against the peer group, but SAB
has growth for longer,” Morgan Stanley wrote.  Petrofac gained 1.8 percent to 1,212 pence after obtaining
a joint contract with South Korean partner Daelim Industrial Co.
to upgrade a refinery in Oman.  Chemring Group Plc (CHG)  rallied 9.6 percent to 213 pence, for
its biggest gain in 15 months. The supplier of defense systems
for combat jets said it will sell some business units to improve
its financial position.  Babcock International Group Plc (BAB)  declined 3.1 percent to
1,284 pence. The engineering company said it is in exclusive
talks to form a joint venture with Avincis Mission Critical
Services Group SA, a helicopter-service provider.  Numis Securities Ltd. and Panmure Gordon & Co. downgraded
the stock to hold from buy and Investec Plc lowered its rating
to hold from add. Babcock has rallied 37 percent this year
compared with the FTSE 100’s 13 percent advance. Panmure wrote
in a note today that earnings increases are needed for the stock
to climb higher.  Essar Energy Ltd. tumbled 13 percent to 87.35 pence, its
lowest since its  London  listing in May 2010. The energy company
said it expects refining margins in Europe to remain under
pressure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  