-- U.S. to Continue Flights in Defense Zone Claimed by China
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-11-25T18:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/u-s-to-continue-flights-in-defense-zone-claimed-by-china.html
 The U.S. won’t change its flight
operations to comply with China’s newly claimed air defense zone
in the  East China Sea , a Pentagon spokesman said today.  “We will not in any way change how we conduct our
operations,” Army Colonel Steve Warren told reporters at the
Pentagon. U.S. pilots won’t register their flight plans or
identify their transponder or frequency, Warren said.  China announced an air defense identification zone in the
East China Sea effective Nov. 23 and said its military will take
“defensive emergency measures” if aircraft enter the area
without reporting flight plans or identifying themselves.  “We see it as destabilizing,” Warren said of China’s
decision. He said U.S. pilots always maintain the ability to
defend themselves.  China’s declared intent to protect an air zone encompassing
islands contested by  Japan  has escalated tensions between  Asia ’s
two largest economies. The disputed islands are known as Diaoyu
in Chinese and Senkaku in Japan.  Japan’s foreign minister, Fumio Kishida, said China has
engaged in “profoundly dangerous acts that unilaterally change
the status quo,” according to a statement issued over the
weekend.  While the U.S. has said it isn’t taking sides in the
dispute over the contested islands, the U.S. is a treaty ally of
Japan and in October set a road map for defense cooperation over
the next 20 years.  ‘Unilateral Action’  “This unilateral action increases the risk of
misunderstanding and miscalculation,” Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said of China’s decision in a statement over the weekend.  The Foreign Affairs office of the Chinese Defense Ministry
complained to the U.S. embassy’s military attache yesterday over
the U.S.’s “erroneous remarks” on the air zone, according to a
statement on the ministry’s website.  China  didn’t specify what measures it might take if others
don’t abide by its rules.  A map and details of the air zone’s coordinates were posted
on the Chinese Defense Ministry’s website.  “This is a necessary measure taken by China in exercising
its self-defense right,” ministry spokesman Yang Yajun said in
a statement. “It is not directed against any specific country
or target.”  The rules include reporting flight plans to China’s Foreign
Ministry or civil aviation authorities and providing radio and
logo identification or aircraft, according to the ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  