-- Mubadala, Guinea Agree on Alumina Refinery to Lure $5 Billions
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-11-25T14:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/mubadala-guinea-agree-on-alumina-refinery-to-lure-5-billions.html
Guinea  signed an accord with a unit
of  Abu Dhabi ’s Mubadala Development Co. to build an alumina
refinery expected to attract an estimated $5 billion in foreign
investment into the West African nation over eight years.  Guinea, the world’s largest exporter of bauxite which makes
aluminum, signed an agreement with Guinea Alumina Corp. Ltd., a
joint venture owned by Mubadala and Dubai Aluminium Co. Ltd,
Mubadala said in an e-mailed statement.  “This agreement will deliver an estimated $5 billion of
foreign investment into Guinea over the next eight years,”
Lamine Fofana, Guinea minister of mines and geology, said in the
statement. “The development plan will create at peak 14,000
direct and indirect jobs and contribute substantially to
Guinea’s gross domestic product.”  The agreement provides for the construction of a bauxite
export mine in Sangaredi that will be operational and the
development of a port in Kamsar by 2017, according to the
statement. It also stipulates the construction of an alumina
refinery with an initial capacity of 2 million tons a year, with
works due to begin in 2018 and commercial production expected to
begin in 2022, it said.  Mubadala is owned by the government of Abu Dhabi, the
largest sheikhdom of the  United Arab Emirates . State-owned Dubai
Aluminium, known as Dubal, operates a one million metric ton a
year aluminum smelter at Jebel Ali in Dubai - the world’s
largest single-site primary aluminum smelter using pre-bake
anode technology, the statement said.  Guinea announced plans to more than triple bauxite
production capacity by 2020 as Chinese demand for the metal is
forecast to rise, according to a March 15 statement from Guinean
President  Alpha Conde ’s office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  