-- Uber Drivers to Get GM and Toyota Financing Deals
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2013-11-25T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/uber-drivers-to-get-gm-and-toyota-financing-deals.html
People who sign up as drivers for
Uber Technology Inc.’s car-booking service will be able to get
discounted financing or leasing for vehicles made by  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)   Drivers registered to pick up passengers, who request and
pay for rides using Uber’s mobile application, will be able to
go to a dealership and buy designated Toyota or GM cars approved
for the program at lower rates through vehicle-financing
companies, Uber Chief Executive Officer Travis Kalanick said in
an interview.  Uber, based in San Francisco, is racing to keep up with
demand as more people sign up and the company expands into new
cities. Global usage in October increased more than 20 percent
from the previous month, Kalanick said. Uber, which plans to
discuss the financing program in a conference call today, is
seeking to boost the supply of cars on its service while
creating opportunities for automakers to sell vehicles, he said.  “We need to make strategic moves so that we can supply
those cars onto the system,” Kalanick said. “The demand is
there, but if we don’t get the cars on the road -- if we don’t
help our partners and drivers get cars on the road -- then it
just doesn’t matter. We’re just not going to be able to grow.”  Kalanick declined to name the banks or companies financing
or underwriting leases for Toyota and GM cars. Uber raised $258
million from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s venture-capital arm and other
investors earlier this year, valuing the company at $3.5
billion, Kalanick said. Uber plans to invest in research and
development, and expand beyond the 60 cities where it currently
operates.  Driver Pool  The auto-financing program will start on a trial basis for
“thousands” of drivers, Kalanick said. Within a year, he aims
to sell hundreds of thousands of cars through the program. Uber,
which takes a cut of the fares booked through its system, said
in April that it had “tens of thousands” of drivers.  In addition to finding people willing to drive, Uber is
striving to maintain a level of quality among drivers, who are
rated by passengers through the app. Drivers are required to
take a “city knowledge test,” and Uber is exploring other ways
to help its road warriors, including integrated turn-by-turn
directions, Kalanick said.  Founded in 2009, Uber competes with several apps that let
users book rides, including Hailo, GetTaxi, Lyft, SideCar and
Mytaxi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  