-- UBS Offers to Repurchase Some Shares of Puerto Rico Bond Funds
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-11-25T22:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/ubs-offers-to-repurchase-some-shares-of-puerto-rico-bond-funds.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  offered to repurchase some
shares of its Puerto Rico bond funds after the commonwealth’s
debt has lost more than 16 percent this year.  The buyback program applies to funds solely managed by UBS,
and offers would be at net-asset value or below,  Karina Byrne , a
spokeswoman for Switzerland’s largest bank, said today in an e-mailed statement. The Zurich-based firm has told advisers to
contact clients who hold Puerto Rico closed-end funds and those
with UBS Bank USA loans secured “in any part” by closed-end
funds about the repurchase program, Byrne said.  The closed-end funds are capped to prevent the repurchase
of more than 25 percent of outstanding shares over the life of
the investment, Byrne said. Some funds are closer to that limit
than others and may choose not to reach it with this buyback,
she said.  Debt sold by Puerto Rico and its localities  has lost  16
percent since the first of the year, the worst performance since
at least 1999, Standard & Poor’s data show. Yields on Puerto
Rico securities soared to record levels this year on concern
that the island’s finances would deteriorate as its economy has
struggled to grow since 2006.  UBS’s decision to repurchase shares was reported earlier
today by InvestmentNews.com.  Shares of the Puerto Rico Fixed Income Fund, one of the
bank’s closed-end offerings, had a net asset value of $3.65 as
of Nov. 20, according to UBS’s  website . They were offered to the
public at $10 each, according to a July 2003  prospectus .  UBS said in October it put a financial adviser on
administrative leave in Puerto Rico while the bank reviews loans
issued to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  