-- Ukrainian Bonds Advance as Credit Risk Drops on Russia Aid Bets
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-11-25T12:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/ukrainian-bonds-advance-as-credit-risk-drops-on-russia-aid-bets.html
Ukrainian bond yields dropped to a
one-week low and the nation’s credit risk fell on speculation
 Russia  will step in with financial aid for its western neighbor
after the government took steps to repair economic ties.  The yield on Ukrainian dollar bonds maturing in 2023
decreased 12 basis points to 9.55 percent by 1:45 p.m. in Kiev,
the lowest level on a closing basis since Nov. 18. Five-year
credit default swaps, contracts insuring the nation’s debt
against default, declined 27 basis points to 942, after jumping
as high as 1,019 on Nov. 22 after Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych  halted trade agreement talks with the European Union.  Ukraine, eastern  Europe ’s least-creditworthy borrower,
would instead aim to repair trade and economic ties with Russia,
which opposed the EU pact, the government said on Nov. 21. The
move sparked the nation’s largest protests since the 2004 Orange
Revolution. The country is seeking support as it faces more than
$15 billion of debt payments in the next two years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Some investors are hopeful that a big Russian bailout is
looming, with loans and cheap gas,” Timothy Ash, London-based
chief economist for emerging markets at Standard Bank Group
Ltd., said by e-mail today. “So Ukraine would end up resembling
Belarus -- not a great example of democracy but where access to
Russian financing underpins bonds and eases concern over a
default or financing risk.”  Russia ‘Retaliation’  The hryvnia strengthened 0.5 percent to 11.0900 per euro,
paring this year’s to 4.4 percent. The currency appreciated 0.2
percent versus the dollar today.  Yanukovich’s move lowered Ukraine’s risk of default and
investors should buy its dollar bonds maturing in 2017,  Societe
Generale  SA said on Nov. 22. Ukrainian debt is among the world’s
five riskiest credits, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Signing the EU trade agreement would have exposed Ukraine
to sharp commercial retaliation from Russia,” Regis Chatellier,
a London-based strategist at Societe Generale, wrote by e-mail
today. “Over time, Ukraine would have greatly benefited from
the trade agreement with the EU, but it may have avoided default
in the short term.”  Ukraine’s economy slipped into recession in the third
quarter as industrial production plummeted amid weaker demand
for exports such as steel. The government has been discussing a
third International Monetary Fund bailout since 2008 for more
than a year, rejecting demands by the lender to cut household
heating subsidies as Yanukovych prepares for elections in 2015.  While siding with Russia “could bring some short-term
benefits,” delays to  “much-needed reforms” would “merely
paper over the cracks in Ukraine’s struggling economy, which is
likely to remain on the brink of a balance of payments crisis,”
Liza Ermolenko, an  emerging-markets  economist at  Capital
Economics  in  London , said in an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  