-- UN Plans Syria Peace Summit in January as Ban Urges Concessions
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-11-25T17:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/un-plans-to-convene-conference-on-syrian-conflict-on-jan-22.html
The  United Nations  plans to convene
a Syrian peace conference on Jan. 22 in Geneva, after a meeting
this month was canceled because opposition groups weren’t ready
to sit down with the Syrian regime.  Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN’s  Syria  envoy who discussed details
of the peace bid with U.S. and Russian officials today, said the
list of participants isn’t yet complete and he’ll meet his
American and Russian counterparts again in Geneva on Dec. 20.  Attempts to build momentum for a political resolution have
so far been unsuccessful. Sides to the conflict couldn’t agree
on the fate of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, foiling UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon plans to convene talks this month.  Efforts to gather the warring sides at a conference have
intensified since  Russia  and the U.S. reached an agreement in
September to destroy Syria’s chemical weapons. The pact averted
an American military strike in retaliation for an alleged
chemical attack by Syrian government forces outside Damascus in
August.  The Syrian civil war has killed more than 100,000 people
since an uprising against Assad began in March 2011. Among the
recorded deaths are 11,420 children, 764 of them thought to have
been executed, according to a report released yesterday by the
 Oxford Research Group , an independent U.K. research center.  Ban announced the date for talks in an e-mailed statement
today, saying that the goal of the conference is “the
establishment, based on mutual consent, of a transitional
governing body with full executive powers, including over
military and security entities.”  Opportunity  The Jan. 22 conference will follow last year’s inaugural
talks and would bring together the conflict’s opponents for the
first time, Ban said in his statement.  “It would be unforgivable not to seize this opportunity to
bring an end to the suffering and destruction it has caused,”
Ban told reporters in  New York . “All parties can and must begin
now to take steps to help the Geneva conference succeed,
including toward the cessation of violence, humanitarian access,
release of detainees and return of Syrian refugees and
internally displaced people to their homes.”  The Syrian National Coalition, the main western-backed
opposition alliance, wants to see confidence-building measures
introduced before the conference, Istanbul-based spokesman
Khalid Saleh said by phone today.  Geneva Communique  “We call for the release of women and children,
humanitarian corridors and an official declaration from the
regime accepting the six principles of the Geneva Communique,”
Saleh, referring to the document adopted at the first round of
peace talks last year.  The coalition’s governing general assembly is scheduled to
meet Dec. 15 and Jan. 7 and will evaluate any progress, Saleh
said, without commenting on whether it may boycott talks if its
demands aren’t met.  The Geneva Communique, which calls for the establishment of
a transitional administration acceptable to both the Syrian
government and the opposition, doesn’t explicitly describe the
fate of Assad. The U.S. has said countries wanting to
participate in talks must accept the communique’s conditions.  While  Iran  hasn’t accepted the pact, Ban and the  Arab
League  are in favor of inviting the Persian Gulf nation, which
is a key supporter of Assad.  Iran and  Saudi Arabia , which backs rebel forces in the
conflict, are “certainly among the possible participants,”
Brahimi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  