-- Thune-Wyden Letter Aids Bid to Save Charitable Deduction: Taxes
-- B y   D i a n e   F r e d a
-- 2013-11-25T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/thune-wyden-letter-aids-bid-to-save-charitable-deduction-taxes.html
Opponents of President  Barack Obama ’s proposed cap on charitable deductions say they have
gotten a boost from a bipartisan letter by two Senate Finance
Committee members that urges maintaining the tax break.  Senators  John Thune , a South Dakota Republican, and  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, composed their letter last week and
intend to deliver it to leaders of the Finance panel, Bloomberg
BNA reports, as debate heats up revising the U.S.  tax code .  The deduction for charitable contributions has been lumped
with 10 other similar measures -- including the mortgage
interest deduction -- on a list of tax expenditures that may be
ended or altered as lawmakers consider the most comprehensive
changes to the code since 1986.  Charitable-sector leaders gathered in  Washington  Nov. 20 to
meet with members of Congress and detail their arguments against
limiting the deduction.  “The Thune-Wyden letter is a game-changer” in efforts to
press that case, said  Steven Taylor ,  United Way Worldwide  senior
vice president and counsel for public policy. “We have been
trying to get something like this for a long time. We get a lot
of folks in Congress who say they are with us in private
meetings, who say they support charities and they support the
deduction, but having something like this in writing that is
public really shifts the debate dramatically.”  Obama Proposal  Obama has proposed limiting itemized deductions, including
for charitable contributions. His proposal would treat high-income taxpayers as if they were in the 28 percent bracket, so
that a $1,000 contribution for someone in the top tier would
save the taxpayer $280 instead of the current $396. Under
existing law, taxpayers can deduct most contributions of up to
50 percent of their adjusted gross income, which is much less
restrictive than Obama’s proposal.  Thune and Wyden, in their Nov. 19 letter, differentiated
the charitable deduction from other tax expenditures that might
be eliminated.  “It is the only provision that encourages taxpayers to
give away a portion of their income for the benefit of others,”
it said. “For this reason, it is not a loophole, but a lifeline
for millions of Americans in need.”  Charity leaders were especially cheered that the letter
called for protecting “the full value and scope of the
charitable deduction.”  The letter will go to Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, and the panel’s ranking Republican
member, Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah . Thune and Wyden plan to
gather other signatures for the letter through Dec. 12.  Lawmaker Alliance  Baucus has teamed with House Ways and Means Committee
Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, to promote revising
the tax code, though neither have said publicly whether they
support changes to the charitable deduction.  Part of the focus on the fate of such breaks stems from
Camp’s proposal to lower both the current top tax rates for
corporations and individuals without specifying how he would
offset the budgetary cost.  In 2012, Americans donated more than $300 billion to
charitable organizations, and itemized giving accounted for
nearly $229 billion, according to the foundation Giving USA.  Keeping the charitable deduction intact is also a  jobs 
issue, the Thune-Wyden letter said. The organizations that
received those donations leveraged their contributions through
volunteers and other in-kind aid to generate $1.1 trillion in
jobs and services, employing nearly 10 percent of the U.S.
workforce.  The meetings the charitable-sector leaders held with
lawmakers dovetailed with a Washington briefing on proposals to
limit the deduction.  Less Incentive  American Enterprise Institute President Arthur Brooks,
speaking on a panel of experts, said Obama’s proposed cap would
drop giving by $9 billion in the first year alone due to
lowering the incentive for people who earn a lot to give a lot
away, he said.  Brooks said the U.S.’s economic slowdown already has taken
a toll on charitable contributions. Charitable giving declined
sharply after 2007 and still hasn’t fully recovered, he said.  “ Wall Street  may be doing well, but America’s nonprofits
are still hurting,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diane Freda in Washington at  dfreda@bna.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cheryl Saenz at  csaenz@bna.com  