-- Weidmann Says ECB Council Shouldn’t Permanently Supervise Banks
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-11-25T21:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/weidmann-says-ecb-council-shouldn-t-permanently-supervise-banks.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
said the European Central Bank’s Governing Council should only
temporarily be responsible for banking supervision.  “The decision-making body responsible for monetary policy
should not be in charge of supervising banks as well,” Weidmann
said in a speech prepared for delivery today in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts . “To avoid possible conflicts of interest, this
should not become a permanent solution.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB will assume oversight over euro-area banks in November 2014 and started a three-stage review of
balance sheets this month. While the ECB will set up a
Supervisory Board to handle day-to-day business, ultimate
authority will rest with the Governing Council.  “A change of the European treaties is required to allow
for a body within the ECB other than the Governing Council to
have the final say in supervisory matters,” Weidmann said in
the speech at  Harvard University . “If this avenue is not taken,
an independent supervisory institution will become necessary, in
my view.”  In the next 12 months, the ECB will identify portfolios
requiring deeper scrutiny, assess the quality of assets and run
a  stress test  -- all in an attempt to restore confidence in the
region’s banking sector. It hasn’t yet been decided how banks’
holdings of government debt will be treated in the final stage
of the exam, Executive Board member Yves Mersch said on Nov. 18.  ‘Adequately Risk-Weighted’  “Sovereign bonds should be adequately risk-weighted, and
exposure to individual sovereign debt should be capped, as is
already the case for private debt,” Weidmann said. “Large and
undiversified exposure is what makes sovereign default a
potentially systemic event.”  Sovereign bonds have been at the root of turbulence in the
region’s debt crisis, as doubt over government finances erodes
confidence in lenders’ balance sheets.  Spain ’s banks owned 199 billion euros ($269 billion) of
their nation’s sovereign bonds as of September, almost eight
times more than they did at the beginning of the debt crisis in
2008, according to data published on the Spanish Treasury’s
website this month. The country took 41 billion euros in aid
last year to help its banks cope with the legacy of a collapse
in the real-estate market.  “Ending the preferential treatment of sovereign debt would
greatly reduce the risk of a financial crisis in case of
sovereign default,” Weidmann said. “It would therefore go a
long way towards re-establishing the principle of individual
responsibility in fiscal affairs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  