-- Yuan Volatility Rises on Political Concern as PBOC Raises Fixing
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-11-25T08:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/yuan-volatility-rises-on-political-concern-as-pboc-raises-fixing.html
Volatility in the  yuan  rose from a
three-week low amid concern China’s plan to protect an air zone
encompassing islands that are disputed with Japan will escalate
regional tensions.  China announced an air defense identification zone in the
 East China Sea  effective Nov. 23 and said its military will take
“defensive emergency measures” if aircraft enter the area
without reporting flight plans or identifying themselves. Japan
lodged a complaint as the U.S. and South Korea expressed concern
about the action. The People’s Bank of China raised its daily
yuan  reference  rate for the first time in three days.  “The increase in geopolitical risk over the weekend is a
concern” in the  currency market , said Ashley Davies, a
strategist in Singapore at Commerzbank AG.  The onshore yuan’s three-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, climbed three basis points to 1.66 percent in  Hong
Kong , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It declined 24
basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, last week and touched
1.61 percent on Nov. 22, the lowest since Nov. 1.  The yuan closed little changed at 6.0926 per dollar in
Shanghai, compared with 6.0936 on Nov. 22, according to China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards weakened 0.02 percent to 6.1350 in Hong Kong, a 1
percent  discount  to the onshore rate.  The central bank strengthened the yuan fixing by 0.06
percent to 6.1342 per dollar. The onshore spot is allowed to
trade as much as 1 percent on either side of the gauge.  China should “gradually” expand the yuan trading band to
wider than 3 percent, Financial News reported today, citing Bank
of China researcher Wen Bin. It should increase the euro
weightage in the basket of currency it uses to set the yuan
value and reduce the U.S. dollar weighting, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  