-- ZIGExN Surges After IPO on Jobs to Dating Demand: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-11-25T10:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-25/zigexn-surges-after-ipo-on-jobs-to-dating-demand-tokyo-mover.html
ZIGExN Co. (3679) , a Japanese  Internet
company  that provides job-search and dating services, more than
doubled in Tokyo trading as investors bid up shares after its
initial public offering.  The shares surged 158 percent to close at 1,550 yen while
the Topix index added 0.9 percent. The Tokyo-based company
raised 5.13 billion yen ($50.5 million) selling stock at 600 yen
apiece in the IPO, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese IPOs have typically gained on their market debut
this year, with only two of the 44 offers that have priced so
far in 2013 declining when they first traded, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. ZIGExN operates 13 main websites,
gathering information on everything from jobs and apartments to
cars, and the Tokyo-based company aims to expand overseas in
Asia and  Africa  after opening an office in Vietnam in January.  “The strength of ZIGExN is the convenience for users,”
said Toshiaki Iwasaki, an analyst at Mito Securities Co. Ltd.
“It attracts users with clear goals for what information they
want and they can check the information all at one stop.”  At the IPO price, the company was valued at about 60 times
earnings, Chief Executive Officer Joe Hirao said in an interview
today.  “Our stock price is valued by investors,” Hirao said.
“We are generating operating profit margin of more than 50
percent.”  Of the 44 priced IPOs in Japan this year, 19 gained 150
percent or more by the end of the first day of trading after
including ZIGExN today.  ReproCELL Inc. (4978) , a stem cell business,
surged the most, gaining 472 percent when it debuted in June.  About 80 companies will go public in Japan next year, with
even more slated for 2015, according to Keiji Kuramoto, an
 executive director  at Nomura’s IPO department.  “There are needs for job-search websites. The company is
operating various websites, so I think the key is how much
ZIGExN can add value,”  Mitsushige Akino , chief  fund manager  at
Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, said by phone. “The
current stock price may be too high, which is common for stocks
that have listed recently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  