-- ‘Texas Chainsaw’ Is No. 1 Film With $23 Million in Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2013-01-07T22:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/-texas-chainsaw-is-no-1-film-with-23-million-in-sales.html
The horror picture “Texas Chainsaw
3D” finished atop the weekend box-office in the U.S. and
Canada, with $21.7 million for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)   Last week’s No. 1 film, “The Hobbit,” dropped to third
place, while “Django Unchained” finished second again,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Receipts for all films rose 5.8 percent this past weekend
from a year earlier, as studios and cinemas built on an increase
in movie-going that lifted domestic ticket sales to a record
$10.8 billion in 2012. Attendance rose 6.5 percent last year on
the strength of films such as “Marvel’s the Avengers” and
“The Dark Knight Rises,” according to Box Office Mojo.  “The surprise winner this week speaks to the fact that
there were no other major titles released,” said  Paul Sweeney ,
media analyst at Bloomberg Industries in Skillman, New Jersey,
in a telephone interview.  “Texas Chainsaw 3D” is the eighth in a series of horror
films, sequels and remakes that began in 1974. In the new movie,
a young woman is terrorized after inheriting an isolated
Victorian mansion. The film features Alexandra Daddario, Scott
Eastwood and Tania Raymonde.  Lions Gate , including its Summit Entertainment unit,
finished fifth among major studios last year with domestic box-
office receipts of $1.26 billion, trailing Sony Pictures at
$1.84 billion, according to Box Office Mojo.  ‘Django Unchained’  Quentin Tarantino ’s “Django Unchained,” from Weinstein
Co., had sales of $20 million in second place. The film stars
Jamie Foxx in the title role as a former slave.  Foxx’s character joins Christoph Waltz’s Dr. King Schultz,
an abolitionist-minded bounty hunter, to collect rewards and
save his wife, a slave held by Leonardo DiCaprio’s Calvin
Candie. Samuel L. Jackson plays Candie’s house slave Stephen.  “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey,” based on J.R.R.
Tolkien’s book and produced by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s New Line
Cinema and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., had sales of $17.5 million.  Martin Freeman plays a young Bilbo Baggins on his first
adventure outside the Shire.  Ian McKellen  returns as Gandalf the
wizard from the Rings trilogy, and Andy Serkis again plays
Gollum. Baggins is recruited by Gandalf to join an expedition of
dwarves seeking to reclaim their homeland and a treasure lost to
the dragon Smaug.  U.S. and Canadian sales to date for “The Hobbit” total
$263.8 million.  ‘Parental Guidance’  “ Les Miserables ,” based on Victor Hugo’s novel, took in
$16 million in its second weekend to place fourth. The film from
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures  features  Hugh Jackman ,
 Russell Crowe ,  Anne Hathaway  and Amanda Seyfried in a musical
drama set amid the social and political turmoil of 19th century
France.  Jackman plays Jean Valjean, a reformed ex-convict who has
been sought for years by the policeman Javert, played by Crowe,
after he violated parole. Hathaway is the ill-fated Fantine,
while Seyfried is her daughter, Cosette.  The family comedy “Parental Guidance” from News Corp.’s
Fox studio, collected $9.7 million to finish in fifth place. The
film stars  Billy Crystal  and Bette Midler as a couple who must
care for their unruly grandchildren.  “Promised Land,” starring  Matt Damon , expanded to more
screens, taking in $4 million and placing 10th.  Bin Laden  Damon plays an energy company salesman who is hired to
persuade small farmers to lease their land to an energy company
for fracking, a process of using water and chemicals to force
oil or gas from rock formations. The film, distributed by
Comcast’s Focus Features, also features  Frances McDormand , Hal Holbrook and John Krasinski.  “Zero Dark Thirty,” director Kathryn Bigelow’s account of
the hunt for  Osama bin Laden , took in $2.7 million after
expanding to 60 locations from five. The film is scheduled to
begin running in about 2,400 theaters starting Jan. 11.  The picture, distributed by  Sony Corp. (6758) , is considered a
probable Academy Award nominee in several categories, including
best director and best picture, according to the website
GoldDerby.com.  Sweeney said “Zero Dark Thirty’s” national distribution,
combined with this coming week’s debut of “Gangster Squad,”
starring  Sean Penn , makes it likely that receipts will exceed
those of the past weekend.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 1.7 percent to
$124.1 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Sales
for the first six days of the year are $252.6 million, up 32
percent from a year ago. Attendance is also up 32 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Jan.
4 to Jan. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  