-- A Short, Short List for Treasury Secretary
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-01-07T15:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/a-short-short-list-for-treasury-secretary.html
Wanted: Experienced individual to lead major Cabinet department. Candidate
must have prior Washington experience and good crisis management skills. Goldman
Sachs pedigree preferred, but overall familiarity with Wall Street required.
Candidates with history of tax evasion need not apply. Must be ready to start
immediately. Now that President Barack Obama has nominated Senator  John Kerry  to succeed
 Hillary Clinton  as secretary of state and the Pentagon guessing game  is over ,
all eyes turn to the U.S. Treasury. Who will replace  Tim Geithner , Obama's point
man in dealing with Congress on all things financial? Jacob Lew , the White House chief of staff and former budget director, is on
everyone's short list. In fact, he is the short list. Yes, the  White House
reportedly approached  American Express CEO Ken Chenault, but that seems more
like a business-friendly gesture on Obama's part than a serious job offer. Whoever replaces Geithner will have to hit the ground running. Within the
next three months, the debt ceiling, the delayed spending sequester and the
continuing resolution to fund the government all must be addressed. And there is
no reserve of bonhomie between Obama and Republican leaders in Congress. Those who consider the current Treasury secretary indispensable should take a
quick look at his curriculum vitae. Geithner has been praised for his handling
of the financial crisis, first as president of the  New York  Fed and subsequently
as Treasury secretary. Overlooked is that his tenure at the Fed, one of the
banking system's two main regulators, coincided with the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression. Most major bank holding companies fall under the
Fed's aegis. Regulators were asleep at the wheel. What does that say about the
fellow doing the driving? ( Caroline Baum  is a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow her on  Twitter .) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .