-- Accused U.K.-Based Terrorist Naseer Appears in U.S. Court
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-07T22:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/accused-u-k-based-terrorist-naseer-appears-in-u-s-court.html
A Pakistani man accused of helping
al-Qaeda plot a series of attacks, including a failed attempt to
bomb the  New York  subway, pleaded not guilty to terrorism
charges in a U.S. court less than a week after losing an
extradition fight in the U.K.  Abid Naseer, 26, was brought before U.S. District Judge
Raymond Dearie in  Brooklyn , New York, today, accused of
providing material support to terrorists and conspiracy. He
faces a maximum sentence of life in prison if convicted,
according to prosecutors.  Standing before the judge in a bright blue T-shirt, black
pants and sneakers, Naseer entered his plea and didn’t contest a
request from the government that he be denied bail. The next
court date is scheduled for March 7.  U.S. prosecutors allege that Naseer was involved in
planning a potential attack in Manchester,  England , as part of a
multinational conspiracy that may also have included the New
York subway bomb plot. Neither attack was carried out.  The subway plot, uncovered in September 2009, involved
Colorado resident Najibullah Zazi and was directed by senior al-
Qaeda leaders in  Pakistan , the U.S. Justice Department said.  Naseer communicated with the same Pakistan-based al-Qaeda
facilitator as the New York subway plotters and used code
language similar to theirs to describe his plans, the U.S. said.  In April 2009, when Naseer was working on the Manchester
attack, he told the facilitator he was planning a large
“wedding,” according to prosecutors. A subway bomb-plot
suspect told the facilitator “the marriage is ready” not long
before their intended attack, prosecutors said.  Lost Appeal  U.S. officials announced Naseer’s extradition from the U.K.
to New York on Jan. 4. A British judge ruled a year ago that
Naseer could be extradited, and he lost an appeal last month.  Naseer is one of 10 Pakistani nationals arrested by British
police in Manchester and Liverpool in 2009 as part of a counter-
terrorism operation. While U.K. security officials said at the
time that the men were about to mount an attack, they weren’t
charged.  In November, Adis Medunjanin, 28, was sentenced in Brooklyn
federal court to the equivalent of two life terms in prison for
planning the failed suicide bombing of the  subway system , which
was set to occur around the eighth anniversary of the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks.  The case is U.S. v. Medunjanin, 1:10-cr-00019, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  