-- AIG Damaged by Government Run Amok, Ex-CEO Greenberg Says
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-01-07T21:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/aig-damaged-by-government-run-amok-ex-ceo-greenberg-says.html
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the
former chief executive officer of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , says in a soon-to-be-published book that the company he
built was almost destroyed by overzealous overseers.  The insurer was “ultimately taken over and run aground by
a cadre of auditors, lawyers, outside directors, and government
officials,” according to an excerpt of “The AIG Story” on
Amazon.com Inc.’s  website.  “Contrary to proponents of anointing
such professionals as ‘gatekeepers’ who police against corporate
misconduct, the AIG story shows how such custodians run amok.”  Greenberg, 87, ran AIG for almost four decades until he was
forced out in 2005 amid a fraud probe by then-New York Attorney
General Eliot Spitzer. The company accumulated billions of
dollars in losses tied to subprime mortgages starting in 2007
under CEO Martin Sullivan and was bailed out by the U.S. in
2008. The New York-based company sold more than $70 billion in
assets to help repay the rescue.  Greenberg told Congress in 2008 that controls he put in
place to limit risk were weakened or eliminated after he left.
His book, co-written with Lawrence Cunningham, a professor at
George Washington University’s law school, highlights what
Greenberg says are the dangers of shifting leadership from a
strong CEO.  “In the inapt guise of promoting ‘shareholder democracy,’
activists and regulators homogenized corporate America in recent
years by imposing a one-size-fits-all governance model that
often ignores the special cultures of particular businesses,”
according to the preface of the book.  Supine Citizens  AIG agreed in 2006 to pay $1.64 billion to settle a fraud
probe by regulators including Spitzer, who accused the company
in a suit of rigging bids, duping shareholders and underfunding
workers’ compensation pools. Spitzer subsequently dropped
portions of the case against Greenberg, who denies wrongdoing.  “The saga of AIG’s near destruction is a reminder that the
rule of law is not inevitable in America, where it can be
undermined when citizens are supine in the face of official
coercion,” according to the book.  A federal judge last year dismissed a suit by Greenberg’s
Starr International Co. against the Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York  over the bailout of AIG. Starr said the New York Fed
breached its fiduciary duty to AIG shareholders in its rescue by
loaning $85 billion at 14.5 percent interest while offering
better terms to rescued banks.  Greenberg credits AIG’s  employees  for a turnaround at the
insurer, which repaid the $182.3 billion rescue last year. AIG
stock has rallied more than 50 percent in the past year.  The book’s publication date is Jan. 29, according to
Amazon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  