-- Air Berlin Names Strategy Chief Prock-Schauer as Chief
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-01-07T09:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/air-berlin-names-strategy-chief-prock-schauer-as-chief.html
Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  appointed Wolfgang Prock-Schauer, the former head of U.K. carrier BMI, to succeed
Hartmut Mehdorn as chief executive officer, ending 16 months of
interim leadership at  Europe ’s third-biggest discount airline.  Prock-Schauer, a 56-year-old Austrian who had been working
as Air Berlin’s head of strategy and planning since October,
becomes CEO with effect from today, while Mehdorn will remain on
the management board, the German company said in a statement.  The move comes as Air Berlin struggles to return to profit
after consecutive annual losses since 2008. Prock-Schauer had
led BMI, which was also unprofitable, from 2009, leaving after
the Deutsche Lufthansa AG unit was sold to International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA. He has also worked in  India .  “Prock-Schauer has decades of experience in different
regions going for him, and Air Berlin has made progress on cost
cutting already,” said Sebastian Hein, an analyst at Bankhaus
Lampe. “I can imagine he’ll be successful, but it’ll be a
Herculean job, one of the most difficult of his career.”  Air Berlin  traded  2.1 percent lower at 1.53 euros as of
10:14 a.m. in  Frankfurt  after earlier adding 1.7 percent. Hein,
based in Bielefeld,  Germany , has a “sell” recommendation on the
stock, which he expects to fall to 1.50 euros within a year.  Routes, Jobs  Under Mehdorn, who had held the title of interim CEO since
September 2011, Germany’s largest airline behind Lufthansa has
been closing routes and pondering job cuts after the economic
slump pushed other short-haul operators to collapse.  The Berlin-based company adopted a new turnaround program,
dubbed Turbine 2013, in October as earnings come under
additional pressure amid competition from larger low-cost
operators  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ)   Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways, which holds a 29 percent
stake in Air Berlin, also agreed to buy 70 percent of the
discount specialist’s Topbonus frequent-flier program for 184.4
million euros ($240 million) last month in a transaction that
should help deliver a first annual profit since 2007.  “Air Berlin is facing huge challenges,” Prock-Schauer
said in a statement. “We must continue to push our process of
change forward rapidly to become lean and smart.”  Prock-Schauer is a graduate of the University of Economics
and Business Administration in Vienna, according to the website
of the  Star Alliance  airline group, of which he was chairman
between 2002 and 2003.  The executive began his career at Austrian Airlines in 1981
and spent six years as CEO of Jet Airways (India) Ltd. prior to
his move to BMI, which was absorbed by British Airways following
the sale to IAG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  