-- Air France Offers Discount Fares in Bid to Repel EasyJet Threat
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-01-07T14:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/air-france-offers-discount-fares-in-bid-to-repel-easyjet-threat.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,  Europe ’s
biggest airline, will introduce a discount fare on short-haul
routes from  France  starting at 49 euros ($64) including tax in a
push to stem the loss of market share to low-cost carriers.  The reduced fare, branded MiNi and available on 58 routes
from Feb. 6, will exclude rights to air miles and free hold
baggage, Air France said today. Tickets will be about 20 euros
cheaper than under the all-inclusive regular price, it said.  “We will offer more than 1 million seats with these new
prices,” Alexandre de Juniac, chief executive officer at the
main Air France unit, said at a Paris press conference, adding
that the aim is “to become Europe’s No. 1 carrier on medium-
haul flights by regaining customers.”  Air France-KLM is seeking to repel incursions from discount
operators led by Ryanair Holdings Plc and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , which has
added more flexible tickets to help lure business travelers.
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s No. 2 carrier, is folding short-
haul flights outside Frankfurt and Munich into its Germanwings
low-cost brand, while  International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA (IAG)  has established the dedicated Iberia Express unit in Spain.  “Air France is a little late on this, as other players have
already adjusted themselves to the market,” said  Yan Derocles ,
an analyst at Oddo Securities who recommends buying Air France-
KLM shares. “KLM will certainly do the same a little later.”  De Juniac said he’s hopeful that talks with Airbus SAS and
 Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  over an order for A350 wide-body planes
will reach a conclusion by the end of the first quarter.  Air France has been seeking rights to service engines for
the aircraft at its own maintenance arm before signing a deal,
something Rolls generally seeks to keep in-house.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  