-- Airbus Is Preferred Bidder on India Military-Tanker Plane
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-07T16:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/airbus-is-preferred-bidder-on-india-military-tanker-plane.html
Airbus SAS said it was named the
preferred bidder to supply air-to-air refueling aircraft to the
Indian military, in a potential deal valued at more than $1
billion.  India is discussing the purchase of six tankers,  Airbus
Military  said in an e-mail today. The start of deliveries of the
modified A330 passenger jets, which are due to span 51 months,
is still being negotiated, said the Madrid-based Airbus
subsidiary building military transport aircraft.  The Indian defense ministry is undertaking a wide-ranging
modernization of its  air force  and had to scrap a previous
refueling aircraft competition when the selection process came
under scrutiny. Russia’s Ilyushin Il-78 offer was the losing
bidder in the latest competition.  “This has been a long and tough competition and we are
honored to have been selected,” Airbus Military Chief Executive
Officer Domingo Ureno Raso said in the statement. “We are fully
committed to the next stage of the negotiations.”  Airbus said it expects to sign the contract this year.
Preferred-bidder status in  India  kicks off sometimes lengthy
contract talks.  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) , named the preferred bidder
a year ago to supply Rafale fighters to India, remains in talks
with the government about concluding that agreement.  Airbus has delivered A330-based tankers to the  Royal
Australian Air Force , the lead customer for the refueler, as
well as to the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and the U.K.
The Royal Air Force is due to become the largest operator, with
14 tankers under a fee-for-service arrangement through the
AirTanker consortium. A contract with India would boost the
total order book for A330 refuelers to 34 aircraft.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., the parent of
Airbus, lost a competition to  Boeing Co. (BA)  in early 2011 to supply
179 tankers to the Pentagon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  