-- Taiwan December Exports Rise More Than Estimated on China Demand
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2013-01-07T08:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/taiwan-december-exports-rise-more-than-estimated-on-china-demand.html
Taiwan ’s exports increased more than
economists estimated in December, signaling the island’s
recovery is gathering pace amid stronger demand from China.  Shipments abroad rose 9 percent from a year earlier, after
gaining a previously reported 0.9 percent in November, the
Ministry of Finance said in Taipei today. The median of 19
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 4.5 percent.  The central bank held  interest rates  for a sixth meeting
last month as the outlook for exports brightened. Manufacturing
in China, Taiwan’s biggest trading partner, expanded at the
fastest pace in 19 months in December, while U.K. factory
activity unexpectedly expanded at the fastest pace in 15 months.  “Stronger data coming out of the mainland ahead of Chinese
New Year should benefit exports,”  Tony Phoo , a Taipei-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said before the report,
referring to the Lunar New Year on Feb. 10. “Exports should
remain in positive growth territory at least for the first
quarter of this year.”  The  Taiwan dollar  was little changed at NT$29.006 against
its U.S. counterpart as of 4:01 p.m. in Taipei. It gained about
4 percent last year, the fourth-best performer among 11 widely-
traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Imports gained 1.6 percent from a year earlier, for a trade
 surplus  of $4.13 billion in December, today’s report showed.  Exports of electronics products rose 6 percent last month
from a year earlier. Shipments to  China  climbed 12.6 percent,
while those to Europe advanced 11 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  