-- Taiwan Inflation Unexpectedly Quickened in December on Transport
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-01-07T00:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/taiwan-inflation-unexpectedly-quickened-in-december-on-transport.html
Taiwan’s inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in December, even as the government said it will
check price gains as it tries to bolster economic growth.  Consumer prices  rose 1.61 percent from a year earlier,
after climbing a previously reported 1.59 percent in November,
the statistics bureau said in Taipei today. The median of 12
estimates in a  Bloomberg News  survey was 1.38 percent.  The central bank refrained from raising  interest rates  last
year to manage price gains as it tries to support the economy
amid a global slowdown. Taiwan aims to keep inflation at below 2
percent in 2013 while boosting growth to 3.8 percent from around
1 percent currently, Premier Sean Chen said last month.  “The downward trend in inflation numbers is gradually
coming to a halt,” Ma Tieying, a Singapore-based economist at
DBS Group Holdings Ltd., said before the report. “That said, a
rebound in inflation is unlikely to take place soon, given the
lingering weakness in domestic demand.”  The  Taiwan dollar  gained more than 4 percent last year
against its U.S. counterpart, the fourth-best performer among 11
most-traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg News.  Food prices climbed 1.87 percent last month from a year
earlier, today’s report showed, compared with a 2.28 percent
pace in November. Transportation gained 2.23 percent and medical
care advanced 1.6 percent.  Core consumer prices , a category excluding vegetables,
fruits, fish and energy, advanced 1.09 percent. Wholesale prices,
which track the cost of goods sold to retailers and producers,
fell 3.96 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  