-- Malaysia Funds Subway With First Exchange Bonds: Southeast Asia
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-01-08T02:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/malaysia-funds-subway-with-first-exchange-bonds-southeast-asia.html
Malaysia ,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
local-currency  bond market , will let retail investors fund  Kuala
Lumpur ’s new subway as it starts marketing its first exchange-
traded notes to individuals.  DanaInfra Nasional Bhd., the state-owned company that’s
financing the rail network, is kicking off the offerings and
plans to complete the sale of Islamic bonds by Feb. 8, according
to a statement today. The notes will pay a minimum profit rate
of 3.7 percent, depending on demand and market interest, it said.  The country joins Indonesia,  Thailand  and the  Philippines 
in tapping the general public for funds and providing an
alternative investment to bank deposits and equities. Prime
Minister Najib Razak said in a speech at the unveiling at  Bursa
Malaysia Bhd. (BURSA)  today that the securities give an “unprecedented
opportunity” for people to invest in the nation’s development.
The bonds will help boost market volumes, Tajuddin Atan, chief
executive officer at the bourse, said in an e-mail on Jan. 6.  The Islamic notes will “provide retail investors with an
opportunity to be part of a major public infrastructure
project,” Ranjit Ajit Singh, chairman of Malaysia’s Securities
Commission, said in an e-mail yesterday. “One of the key
components of our capital-market strategy is to continue to grow
the bond market, which is already the fourth largest in  Asia .”  Malaysia sold a record amount of debt last year as
companies help fund the government’s $444 billion development
program to build railways, roads and power plants.  Institutional Investors  DanaInfra will offer 300 million ringgit ($99 million) of
government-guaranteed Islamic securities to individuals, Ashraf
Radzi, associate director of Prokhas Sdn., a financial adviser
to the company, said in Jan. 3 interview. He declined to give
specific details such as yields or maturity.  The bonds, which pay returns on assets to comply with the
Koran’s ban on interest, will be sold in increments of 100
ringgit, or the equivalent of $33, with a minimum order value of
1,000 ringgit, Bursa Malaysia’s Tajuddin said.  The exchange-traded securities would open up the market to
a bigger pool of funds given that it’s mainly dominated by
institutional investors who currently buy or sell debt through
brokerages or dealers.  Under present rules, an individual needs a capital base of
more than 3 million ringgit, or gross annual income exceeding
300,000 ringgit in the preceding 12 months, to purchase bonds,
Lee Kok Kwan, deputy CEO of  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , said in an
interview yesterday. Alternatively, the minimum size per trade
is 250,000 ringgit via private placement if net worth isn’t
declared, he said.  Public Unfamiliarity  Malaysia’s one-year fixed deposits offer the public a 3.18
percent return, while three-year government  bonds  yield 3.04
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg and a central bank index
show. The nation issued its first retail notes totaling 5
billion ringgit at a coupon rate of 5 percent in April 2009.  Thailand is selling three-year saving bonds to individuals
at 3.75 percent, according to the Public Debt Management
Office’s website. That’s more than the 2.93 percent yield on
similar-maturity sovereign notes and the 2.6 percent for three-
year fixed deposits.  Indonesia  sold three-year bonds to retail
investors at a yield of 6.25 percent in October, while the
Philippines issued 25-year securities at 6.125 percent.  “DanaInfra should offer at least a 20 basis point to 30
basis point premium over similar-maturity government notes to
entice retail investors,” Choo Swee Kee, who oversees the
equivalent of about $230 million as CEO at TA Investment
Management Bhd., said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur yesterday.
“Retail investors aren’t very familiar with bond trading and
may not participate in the offering.”  Debt to GDP  Malaysia had $318 billion of debt outstanding as of Sept.
30, compared with $265 billion in Thailand and $237 billion in
 Singapore , according to  data  from the  Asian Development Bank .
The government’s development spending helped contribute to one
of the highest levels of debt in Southeast Asia at 51.8 percent
of gross domestic product. That compares with 24.1 percent in
Indonesia, 50.9 percent in the Philippines and 44.9 percent in
Thailand, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Malaysia sold 117.8 billion ringgit of debt last year as
companies raised funds to help finance projects under the
government’s economic transformation initiative, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s almost double the previous
record of 67 billion ringgit in 2011.  ‘Great Start’  “The launch of exchange-traded bonds creates an affordable
new investment opportunity for the masses,” Bursa Malaysia’s
Tajuddin said. “The issuance also aims to provide product
diversity to the market so that investors have an alternative,
or an option to invest in a tradable investment that provides a
steady stream of income.”  Bursa Malaysia is  committed  to ensuring the longer-term
acceptance of exchange-traded bonds and will organize a series
of talks and meetings with lead arrangers to help the public
understand the benefits of the product, Tajuddin said. The
bourse has also put in place various incentives such as lower
trading fees and exemptions on stamp duty, he added.  “It’s a great start with a government-guaranteed issuance
as this is the safest offering from a credit-risk perspective,”
said Lee of CIMB Group, the nation’s top bond arranger.
“Corporate bonds will eventually follow suit, which will be
very important for retail investors as this will allow them to
expand beyond equities, properties and  bank deposits .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  