-- Amazon Chief Bezos Says Free Cash Flow Trumps Margins
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-01-09T16:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/amazon-s-bezos-says-free-cash-flow-trumps-margins-for-investors.html
(Corrects  cash flow  description in fourth paragraph of
story published Jan. 7.)  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jeff Bezos  is more interested in rewarding investors
through free cash flow than by boosting margins.  “Percentage margins are not one of the things we are
seeking to optimize,” Bezos said in an interview with the
Harvard Business Review  posted  online Jan 3. “It’s the absolute
dollar free cash flow per share that you want to maximize. If
you can do that by lowering margins, we would do that. Free cash
flow, that’s something investors can spend.”  Amazon is spending to improve a network of warehouses and
enhance cloud-computing facilities that give customers a cheap
and safe way to outsource data centers. Operating margin is
estimated to be 1.8 percent this year, down from 4.6 percent in
2009, after a building boom to lure cloud customers and boost
online product sales. Bezos said those investments ultimately
will add to  free cash flow  that totaled $2.09 billion in 2011.  This year, cash flow per share from operating activities
for Seattle-based Amazon is expected to rise 65 percent to
$10.68, from an estimated $6.48 in 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Operating cash flow is what a company
spends on regular business operations, which can include
depreciation, amortization and changes in working capital. Free
cash flow excludes  capital expenditures .  Meeting customers’ demands, even if that means lowering
prices to build loyalty, will boost free cash flow over the long
term, Bezos said.  “We’ve done price elasticity studies, and the answer is
always we should raise prices,” he said. “We don’t do that
because we believe -- and again we have to take this as an
article of faith -- we believe that by keeping our prices very,
very low, we earn trust with customers over time and that that
actually does maximize free cash flow over the long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  