-- Mandee Owner Big M Files for Bankruptcy on Sandy Closing
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-01-07T19:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/annie-sez-owner-big-m-files-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
Big M Inc., owner of women’s-clothing
chains  Annie sez  and Mandee, filed for  bankruptcy protection 
after superstorm Sandy forced company stores in New Jersey and
 New York  to close.  The company was completing a yearlong turnaround when the
storm hit, Glenn R. Langberg, Big M’s restructuring officer,
said in papers filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
 Newark , New Jersey.  “To this day, despite its best efforts, the debtor’s
business has not returned to pre-superstorm levels,” he said.  Some retailers may have lost sales because they were forced
 to shut  stores after Sandy struck the East Coast in October,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau. The U.S. economic slowdown
since 2008 already had driven retailers including Loehmann’s
Holdings Inc., Circuit City Stores Inc. and Borders Group Inc.
into bankruptcy.  Big M operates 129 stores in eight states, comprising 84
Mandee stores, 35 Annie sez sites and 10 Afaze locations. The
company listed assets and liabilities of as much as $100 million
each in its Chapter 11 filing.  The company, based in Totowa,  New Jersey , said it owes
about $15 million to suppliers, consultants, landlords and other
unsecured creditors, and $3.2 million to Salus Capital Partners
LLC and other secured lenders.  Credit Line  The company is negotiating details on a new $10 million
revolving credit line with Salus to finance its reorganization
in bankruptcy, Langberg said.  Brothers Leon, Max and Bernard Mandelbaum founded Big M in
1948 after they returned from World War II, according to court
documents. The company remains a family owned business.  “We are continuing to operate our 120 plus stores in the
ordinary course of business, and we have confidence that we are
taking the proper steps toward emerging as a stronger company,”
Chairman Alan Mandelbaum said in an e-mailed statement.  CIT Group/Commercial Services Inc. of New York is listed as
Big M’s biggest unsecured creditor, owed about $2 million.  The case is In re Big M Inc. 13-10233,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  