-- Apple Says Application Downloads Have Exceeded 40 Billion
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2013-01-08T01:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/apple-tops-40-billion-app-downloads-with-half-in-2012.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said customers have
downloaded more than 40 billion applications from the  App Store ,
with almost half of those in 2012, escalating a duel with  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  over which company is gaining the most traction with users.  More than 2 billion apps were downloaded in December, a
record, Cupertino, California-based Apple said today in a
statement. Apple, with more than 775,000 apps available for its
iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch devices, said it has paid more than
$7 billion to those app developers. By comparison, Google’s
Android software had about 25 billion app downloads from its
store as of September.  Apple  is counting on apps to help woo consumers who are
choosing from an increasing array of lower-priced tablets from
competitors, including Google, Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft
Corp. Apps can also help the iPhone compete against feature-
laden phones from Samsung Electronics Co. and  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   The growth in App Store users to more than 500 million
active accounts, from 435 million in September, as well as the
surge in downloads from 35 billion in October, “could help
allay some recent demand concerns,” Will Power, an analyst at
Robert W. Baird & Co., wrote in a research report today. He
rates the shares outperform with a target price of $750.  Android’s Surge  While Apple pioneered the smartphone market with the
iPhone, it now trails devices that run on Android. Handsets
based on Android, which offered about 700,000 applications to
users as of October, had 72 percent of the global smartphone
market in the third quarter, compared with 14 percent for Apple,
according to Gartner Inc. Google doesn’t disclose how much it
has paid to Android app developers.  Shares of Apple slipped 0.6 percent to $523.90 at the close
in New York, a third straight day of declines after a 31 percent
increase last year. Barclays Plc cut its price estimate to $740
from $800 in a research report yesterday, while maintaining an
overweight rating on Apple stock.  “Expectations are actually low and getting lower,”  Ben Reitzes , an analyst at Barclays, wrote in the report. “Many
investors fear iPhone sales will be relatively flat this year
and that there will be no move into TV that moves the needle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  