-- Arena Seeks Partners in Europe, China for Obesity Drug
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-01-07T21:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/arena-seeks-partners-in-europe-china-for-obesity-drug.html
  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA) , the
maker of weight-loss drug Belviq, is looking for partners to
sell the medicine abroad once it clears regulatory hurdles, Jack Lief, Arena’s president and chief executive officer, said.  Belviq, approved in the U.S. in June as the first new
obesity drug in 13 years, is being promoted in  North America  by
Tokyo-based  Eisai Co. (4523)  Lief said San Diego-based Arena is in
talks with other companies to promote the therapy in Europe if
it gains clearance there, with a decision expected in the first
half of this year.  “Europe is not partnered yet -- we’re waiting for
approval,” Lief said in an interview at the annual health-care
conference sponsored by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in  San Francisco .
“We’re talking to partners presently, even at this meeting.”  Lief said the biggest market outside the U.S. for the drug
is  China , and the company is looking for partners there as well.  The pill works in a similar way to fenfluramine, part of
the fen-phen appetite-suppression drug combination pulled from
pharmacies in 1997 when it was linked to heart valve
abnormalities.  Belviq is indicated for people who have at least one
coexisting condition such as high  blood pressure  or Type 2
diabetes. The drug will be available in the U.S. after the Drug
Enforcement Administration completes a review to classify Belviq
based on its potential for abuse, Arena said in an earlier
statement.  Arena gained 2.2 percent to $9.20 at the close in  New York .
The shares have increased more than fivefold in the past 12
months.  Craig Audet, Arena’s senior vice president of operations,
said the company doesn’t want the drug to be promoted just for
cosmetic purposes.  Obesity Management  “Another thing we’re really looking for is someone who
looks at Belviq for medical management of obesity, and not just
as a weight-loss drug,” Audet said in an interview. “We don’t
want someone marketing this as a cosmetic drug.”  Arena turned down a company offering to promote the drug in
 Korea  for this reason, choosing instead a less lucrative
partnership with Ildong Pharmaceutical Co., Audet said.  “You can’t talk out of both sides of your mouth,” Audet
said.  Arena’s drug, previously known by its chemical name as
lorcaserin, was rejected by the FDA in 2010 because the agency
had concerns about cancer. Advisers to the agency determined the
benefits of the drug outweighed the risks.  Side Effects  The FDA has said Arena’s pill shouldn’t be used by pregnant
women. Belviq may cause serious side effects, including a fatal
increase in the chemical serotonin produced by the body that can
cause muscle rigidity, fever and seizures, especially when used
with drugs that treat migraines and depression, the agency said.
Belviq may also cause memory or attention disturbances, the FDA
said.  The medication’s label also instructs patients to
discontinue use if 5 percent of  weight loss  is not achieved by
the 12th week of treatment.  Arena and Eisai agreed to conduct six post-market studies
to analyst the safety and efficacy of the medicine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  