-- Argentine President Rents $880,000 Jet for Cuba, Asia Travel
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-01-07T19:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/argentine-president-rents-880-000-jet-for-cuba-asia-travel-1-.html
Argentina is renting a jet so
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  can avoid the threat of
having her official plane seized by defaulted bondholders during
a tour of Asia that will begin with a stop in Havana to see
ailing Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez .  Fernandez rented the plane for $880,000 instead of using
the president’s Boeing 757 aircraft at the recommendation of the
Foreign Ministry, the government said today in a statement on
the presidential website. The decision follows a legal battle
with Ghana after the African nation detained an Argentine naval
ship for 10 weeks as part of a dispute with investors holding
bonds from the country’s 2001 default.  Fernandez’s agenda has her arriving in Cuba on the same day
the cancer-stricken Chavez was supposed to be in Caracas for his
inauguration to a third six-year term. Bolivian President  Evo Morales  was rebuffed in his effort last month to visit the 58-
year-old leader, who hasn’t been seen in public since just
before undergoing his fourth cancer-related surgery in Havana
about a month ago.  “Fernandez will depart on Jan. 10 directly to Havana,”
Paula Chain, a spokeswoman at the presidential palace said today
in a phone interview from Buenos Aires. “The president will try
to visit President Chavez.”  Venezuelan Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  said the Jan. 10
inauguration date in the constitution is a “formality” and
that the swearing in can be done at a later time.  After Cuba, Fernandez will continue on to the United Arab
Emirates, Vietnam and Indonesia, Chain said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  