-- Tarullo Sees Big Banks With Fed Rule Protecting Taxpayer
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-01-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/tarullo-sees-big-banks-with-fed-rule-protecting-taxpayer.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  is pushing an agenda to regulate banks beyond the
restraints in the Dodd-Frank Act, including making them fund
more of their assets using long-term borrowing.  The Fed and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. are holding
preliminary discussions on a rule that would require holding
companies for the largest U.S. banks to maintain a minimum
amount of long-term debt that would aid in winding them down in
case they fail, FDIC spokesman  Andrew Gray  said.  As the Fed governor in charge of bank supervision, Tarullo
leads the central bank’s effort to implement the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act and is now pressing beyond it to limit the kind of systemic
risks that required taxpayer-funded bailouts in the 2008-2009
financial crisis. Tarullo, 60, became President  Barack Obama ’s
first appointee to the Fed in January 2009 after previously
serving as an aide to President  Bill Clinton .  “Tarullo is very intent on fixing what in his views are
flaws in the supervisory process,” said Deborah Bailey,
managing director at Deloitte LLP in  New York  and a former
deputy director in the supervision and regulation division at
the Fed. “The Fed was given more explicit authority under Dodd-
Frank to oversee financially systemic institutions, and, as a
result, they are on the hook” if another large bank fails.  Tarullo’s agenda for reducing risk also includes
strengthening supervision of so-called shadow banking that falls
outside traditional regulation and limiting the risk that the
biggest banks once again become too big to fail through mergers
and more complexity.  Long-Term Borrowing  The push to get banks to use more long-term borrowing is
aimed at creating a class of stakeholders that could step in to
shoulder losses in case of a failure and reduce the need for
taxpayer funding.  Banks typically fund their longer-term assets with short-
term debt, making a profit on the interest-rate difference
between the two. In a bank failure, stockholders are typically
wiped out, and short-term debt can evaporate quickly as
creditors refuse to renew commercial paper and short-term notes.  Requiring banks to rely more on long-term debt means the
issuers of such debt would become stakeholders at the holding
company level, whose bonds regulators could convert into equity
in a failure. That might reduce or eliminate the need for
taxpayer funding, which Dodd-Frank prohibits. Yields on long-
term bank bonds would also provide regulators with a market
gauge of bank stress.  Risk Awareness  “It eliminates the government as the backup and makes
everybody in the capital line a little more cognizant of risk
because you could be wiped out or moved down the  capital
structure  in a pinch,” said R. Scott Siefers, managing director
at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York.  Regulators have rarely determined the capital structure for
private banks, he said. “We are living in a completely new
world.”  Tarullo said in a Dec. 4 speech in Washington that a
minimum long-term debt rule “could lend greater confidence that
the combination of equity owners and long-term debt holders
would be sufficient to bear all losses at the firm.”  Bank capital structure is just one area Tarullo is sizing
up for possible rule-making. The Fed last month published a
proposal that would require stricter oversight of foreign banks
with large U.S. operations. Fed officials have also urged more
oversight of shadow banking, where financial institutions from
banks, to real estate investment trusts to finance companies use
lightly regulated money markets to fund long-term assets.
Tarullo is also exploring how to measure the costs and benefits
posed by the merger of large banks.  Activist Agenda  “Post crisis, the Fed has a new more activist agenda,”
said Margaret Tahyar, a partner at the law firm Davis Polk &
Wardwell in New York. “It’s a complete paradigm shift.”  Tarullo called in a June 12 speech for more oversight of
shadow banking, an area he said has only been “obliquely
addressed despite the fact that the most acute phase of the
crisis was precipitated by a run on that system.”  With shadow banking usually outside of Fed oversight,
regulation falls to other agencies and the Financial Stability
Oversight Council, a group of regulators charged with preventing
another financial crisis. Tarullo sits with Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  at FSOC
meetings, even though he isn’t a voting member of the group.  Fragile Component  Tarullo said last June that the financial crisis exposed
money-market mutual funds as a fragile component of the funding
system. When the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund broke the $1
net asset value in September 2008 after writing off debt issued
by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., “the illusion that money
funds were effectively as safe as insured bank accounts was
shattered,” Tarullo said.  The Fed is also concerned about what some analysts call
systemic herds, or groups of companies such as mortgage real
estate investment trusts, that hold in total hundreds of
billions of dollars of the same kind of assets, a senior U.S.
regulator said. Fire sales of assets could result if creditors
pull back.  Mortgage Securities  REITs, which are not regulated by the Fed, held $368.2
billion of government-backed mortgage securities as of Sept. 30,
funded with $319.7 billion of typically short-term repurchase
agreement borrowing, according to Fed data. Since 2008, their
assets have grown from $89.6 billion and their liabilities have
risen from $79.3 billion.  Tarullo has also proposed outright limits on bank size. He
called on Congress in October to constrain the non-deposit
liabilities of financial firms to a specific percentage of U.S.
gross domestic product. He also said the U.S. will follow the
Basel Committee’s recommendation and develop capital surcharges
for eight large systemically important U.S. banks, led by
Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The Basel Committee’s measure imposes another charge if
banks grow bigger. Tarullo said on Oct. 10 in Philadelphia that
he would “urge a strong, though not irrebuttable, presumption
of denial for any acquisition by any firm that falls in the
higher end of the list of global systemically important banks
developed by the Basel Committee.”  The Fed doesn’t explicitly cap bank size. Still Tarullo has
given no indication he wants to see the biggest U.S. banks grow
bigger. He wants first to clarify the risks posed by big banks
to financial stability and public perceptions that the
institutions are too big to fail.  “Really big deals are going to be extremely difficult if
not doomed,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner at
Federal Financial Analytics in  Washington , a consulting firm on
regulation whose clients include the world’s largest banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  