-- Lippo Joins Developer Bond Flurry
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-07T09:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/asia-pacific-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
PT Lippo Karawaci Tbk (LPKR) ,  Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. (16)  and  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. (813)  are marketing
dollar-denominated bonds after the busiest week for U.S.
currency sales by Asian real-estate companies since September.  Lippo Karawaci,  Indonesia ’s largest publicly traded
developer by assets, plans to sell as much as $130 million more
of its existing 6.125 percent bonds due November 2020, according
to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the terms aren’t set. Sun Hung Kai and Shimao
are also marketing debt, people with knowledge of the details
said, after Asian real-estate companies sold $1.25 billion of
notes last week, the most since the seven-day period ending
Sept. 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Country Garden Holdings Co. and Kaisa Group Holdings Ltd.,
both based in Guangdong province in southern  China , priced
dollar bonds in Asia last week after a three-week pause amid
year-end holidays. The cost of insuring regional corporate and
sovereign notes from default is at the lowest level in two
years, according to traders of credit-default swaps.  “Funding costs in the U.S. dollar bond markets for Chinese
property developers are at their lowest point in a long time,”
said Krishna Hegde, the Singapore-based head of Asia credit
research at Barclays Plc. “It makes sense for these companies
to refinance their debt or term out maturities.”  Asian borrowers paid an  average  4.06 percent to sell
dollar-denominated bonds as of Jan. 4, near the record low of
3.94 percent reached on Nov. 29, according to a JPMorgan Chase &
Co. index.  Developer Offerings  Lippo Karawaci is marketing its notes at 104.25 to 104.375
cents on the dollar, a person familiar with the matter said. Sun
Hung Kai is offering 10-year bonds at a spread of 180 basis
points to 185 basis points more than Treasuries, said a person
familiar with the matter. Shimao, whose projects include the
five-star Shanghai Hyatt on the Bund, plans to sell seven-year
bonds yielding about 6.75 percent as soon as today, a separate
person said.  Westpac Banking Corp. is also planning a dollar debt sale,
marketing a three-year note at 60 to 65 basis points more than
Treasuries, and five-year securities at 80 to 85 basis points
more than Treasuries, according to a person with knowledge of
the matter.  Export-Import Bank of  India  is marketing 10-year dollar
bonds at about 240 basis points more than U.S. government debt,
according to a separate person with knowledge of the deal.  Country Garden raised $750 million from a sale of 10-year
bonds on Jan. 3 while Kaisa sold $500 million of seven-year
debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Sino Land Co., CapitaLand
Ltd., Road King Infrastructure Ltd. and Kaisa raised $1.5
billion in the week ending Sept. 14, the data show.  Default Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 101.5 as of 1:03
p.m. in Hong Kong, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc. The gauge is on course for its lowest close since January
2011, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index slid 0.5 basis point to
113.5 as of 11:32 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking Corp. prices
show. The benchmark is set for its lowest close since July 2011,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index fell 5 basis points to 144
basis points as of 2:05 p.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices
show. The measure is on track for its lowest level since March
19, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  