-- Asia Syndicated Loans Slide to Two-Year Low as Club Deals Rise
-- B y   F o s t e r   W o n g
-- 2013-01-08T02:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/asia-syndicated-loans-slide-to-two-year-low-as-club-deals-rise.html
Syndicated lending in  Asia  fell to
the least in two years in 2012 as companies use their bank
relationships to strike cheaper bilateral or club deals in the
private market.  Lending volumes in the Asia-Pacific region outside of  Japan 
slumped 17.6 percent to $376.4 billion last year from $456.8
billion in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Average interest margins for dollar-denominated loans increased
15 basis points to 273.6 basis points, versus a rise of 40 to
351.8 in the U.S., where the decrease in syndicated debt was a
smaller 14.8 percent.  At the same time as the economy slows, reducing companies’
willingness to make new investments and expand, higher-rated
borrowers in Asia are finding that reverting to loans which
aren’t marketed to a wider group of banks in syndication is a
more competitive source of funding. The rise of Japanese and
Chinese bank participation in some parts of the syndicated
market meanwhile is reducing costs, with other lenders forced to
match lower rates or bow out of transactions.  “High-grade borrowers are turning maturing facilities into
bilateral loans because they can leverage their relationships to
get better pricing and more favorable terms,” Priscilla Lee,
the head of northeast Asia loan syndications at  Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. , said in a Dec. 14 interview. “Many don’t
care to go to the syndicated market.”  Missing Borrowers  Hutchison Telephone Co., a unit of phone carrier Hutchison
Telecommunications  Hong Kong  Holdings Ltd., is paying an
interest margin of 160 basis points more than the Hong Kong
interbank offered rate for a HK$5.5 billion ($709.6 million),
three-year club loan it signed in June, Bloomberg data show.
That’s 121 basis points less than the average interest margin
for syndicated dollar loans signed in Asia outside of Japan last
year.  Hong Kong realtors  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  and
 Henderson Land Development Co. (12)  were missing from the city’s
syndicated financing market in 2012 having sought Hong Kong
dollar-denominated loans almost annually over the past decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sun Hung Kai borrowed
in the city’s currency every year since 2002 except 2009, while
 Henderson Land  completed six deals since 2003.  Sun Hung Kai’s only loan in 2012 was a 2.7 billion  yuan 
facility ($433.4 million) arranged by  Bank of China  Ltd., the
data show. The company also sold about $1.04 billion-equivalent
of bonds. Henderson Land meanwhile  borrowed  about $946 million-
equivalent in the  bond market . Its $700 million of 4.75 percent
securities due 2017 and sold in February are yielding 2.953
percent, from 4.872 percent at issue, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices on Bloomberg show.  Clubs, Bilaterals  Developing economies in the East Asia and Pacific region
will probably expand 7.5 percent in 2012 versus the 8.3 percent
recorded in 2011, according to a  World Bank   report  released Dec.
19. With weak demand for exports from global markets, domestic
demand has remained the main driver for most economies, the
World Bank said in the report.  Risks include delays in solving  Europe ’s debt crisis and a
possible “sharp decline” in the growth of investments in
 China , where expansion is forecast to slow to 8 percent in 2014
from a projected 8.4 percent in 2013, according to the bank.  Club and bilateral loans, which typically aren’t publicly
reported, will remain popular this year so long as the economic
uncertainty continues, according to Pedro Cheung, the head of
corporate finance at Bank of China Ltd. (Hong Kong), the city’s
no. 1 ranked arranger of syndicated loans in 2012 with an 11
percent market share.  “Borrowers will still opt for syndication, but only when
pricing reaches an attractive level,” he said.  M&A Financing  Sales of bonds in Asia excluding Japan surged 46.6 percent
to a record $788 billion in 2012 while the number of
transactions rose 29.2 percent to 4,907, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The number of syndicated loans signed
fell 13 percent to 1,276, the data show.  If the cost of borrowing in the syndicated loan market
falls in 2013 as liquidity improves due to central banks’
economic stimulus packages, that should help to support volumes,
according to  Credit Agricole  SA.  “Pricing will stabilize,” said Atul Sodhi, the Hong Kong-
based head of global loan syndication at Credit Agricole,
“Issues such as Basel 3 could increase pricing but on balance,
I’m inclined to believe costs will stabilize.”  China Rising  Mergers and acquisitions will be another area of
opportunity for banks this year, he said. “Asian corporates are
in good shape with low leverage and plenty of cash,” Sodhi, who
is also the chairman of the  Asia Pacific Loan Market
Association , said. “Banks in the region are well placed to
support them and valuations are reasonable which augurs well for
a pick-up in M&A activity.”  Although deal volumes globally declined 7.9 percent to
$2.23 trillion last year compared with 2011, activity in China
jumped 16.9 percent to $134.4 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. replaced $2 billion of bridge
financing used to help privatize its Hong Kong-listed unit with
a bilateral loan from China Development Bank Corp., people
familiar with the matter said in June. Some 19 international
lenders, including Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Morgan Stanley, had provided the bridge, the
people said.  Cnooc, Nexen  China National Offshore Oil Corp. (388) , known as Cnooc Ltd.,
China’s biggest offshore oil and gas explorer, meanwhile is
working to complete documents for a $6 billion bridge loan to
back its $15.1 billion buyout of Canada’s Nexen Inc., which
received approval from Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  on
Dec. 7., a person familiar with the matter said Dec. 13. The
facility is well supported by mainland lenders such as
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and Industrial & Commercial Bank
China Ltd.  Bank of China was the No. 3 ranked arranger of loans in the
Asia-Pacific region outside of Japan last year, up from eighth
in 2009, Bloomberg-compiled data show. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. rose to equal fourth from 15th over the same period
while Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. ranks sixth from 11th.  “M&A financing is relatively opportunistic as deal flow
isn’t steady,” Bank of China’s Cheung said. “Having said that,
loan volumes in 2012 would have been even lower without it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Foster Wong in Hong Kong at 
 fwong94@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  