-- Astronauts on Mars Mission May Be Exhausted on Arrival
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-01-07T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/astronauts-on-mars-mission-may-be-exhausted-on-arrival.html
A manned mission to Mars could be put
at risk by astronauts too tired to perform duties by the time
they arrive on the planet, a study suggests.  In a  17-month simulation  of a mission to Mars, 4 of 6
astronauts became increasingly sedentary and experienced
problems in performance associated with sleep deprivation,
according to research released today in the journal  Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences . The problems occurred early
in the mission, scientists said.  Locked in a spaceship-like habitat in Moscow for 17 months
to resemble a trip to and from the Red Planet, plus 30 days for
the visit, the would-be astronauts performed experiments and
simulated emergency activities. The most sleep-deprived of the
six crew members was responsible for about 80 percent of errors
on assigned tasks, suggesting maintaining natural sleep cycles
is crucial for the success of interplanetary missions.  “We’re not saying this isn’t feasible, but we’ve
identified these areas where we may have to do something,”
 Mathias Basner , a study author and an assistant professor of
sleep and chronobiology in psychiatry at the University of
Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview.  The scientists monitored the participants’ sleep during  the
520-day simulation  of a Mars mission using a wrist device.
Additionally, they tested the crews’ behavioral alertness. The
simulation was conducted by the Russian Academy of Sciences’
Institute for Biomedical Problems and the Russian Space Agency.
The European Space Agency cooperated.  Locked In  The would-be astronauts were locked in a container in
Moscow on July 3, 2010, and emerged on Nov. 4, 2011. The six men
participated in more than 90 experiments and scenarios including
emergencies and 20-minute communication delays to their mission
command. The time accounted for the 250-day trip to Mars, 30
days on the planet, and 240 days back.  Of the six crew members, only two didn’t experience some
kind of sleep trouble. One crew member developed mild depression
toward the end of the mission, despite having been screened
before the simulation began.  “There were two crew members who did outstanding and
adapted perfectly, and we would feel good about sending those to
Mars,” Basner said. “The other four had major problems in the
domains we were looking into.”  He suggested lights that better simulate sunlight as
received on earth might be helpful. The monotony of the
environment may also be responsible for some of the mood and
sleep disruptions, Basner said.  Many of the health issues developed early and persisted
throughout the mission, Basner said. That means that if
scientists want to test potential remedies for the sleep
disruptions, the simulations don’t have to be as long.  “Probably we don’t need a 17-month mission to see them,
just 2 to 3 months, which gives us more opportunities to do more
of these studies,” he said.  The research was supported by the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, the National Space Biomedical Institute
and others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  