-- AT&T Adds U-Verse Video-Streaming Service for $5 a Month
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-01-07T17:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/at-t-expands-u-verse-tv-to-mobile-devices-for-5-a-month.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  introduced a $5-a-month
video streaming service that will let U-verse television
customers watch movies on computers, tablets and smartphones,
pitting the biggest U.S. phone company against  Netflix (NFLX)  Inc.  The AT&T service, called Screen Pack, gives subscribers
access to new movies as early as a month before those available
through Netflix, the Dallas-based carrier said in a statement.
Los Gatos, California-based Netflix is the biggest U.S.
streaming-video provider, with 25.1 million subscribers who pay
about $8 a month. AT&T has 4.3 million U-verse pay-TV customers.  Cable and phone companies are offering up Netflix
alternatives as customers shift to using computers and mobile
devices to watch movies and TV. Verizon Communications Inc. has
been testing  Redbox Instant , an online video and DVD rental
venture with  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  that offers streaming movies and
rentals for $8 or $9 a month.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  have been using software to stream
programming to subscribers’ tablets.  “This is a smart strategy by AT&T, though ultimately they
may have been forced to do it for competitive reasons,” said
Mike Jude, an analyst with Frost & Sullivan’s Stratecast unit.
“This provides incentive for U-verse subscribers to get all
their content from AT&T and not Netflix.”  AT&T also plans to unveil details today of its new package
of home-monitoring and security services, called Digital Life.
The services include wireless cameras for home surveillance,
remote control of thermostats, lighting and appliances, and 24-
hour security with call-center support.  The phone company announced the services in May and will
provide information on price and national availability at an
event today in Las Vegas, just before the technology industry’s
 Consumer Electronics Show  opens tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  