-- Accused Movie Gunman Wore Head-to-Toe Armor, Officer Says
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-01-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/aurora-shooting-suspect-holmes-faces-preliminary-court-hearing.html
The man accused of shooting 12 people
to death at an Aurora,  Colorado , movie theater, was clad almost
head-to-toe in armor when police caught him after the July 20
rampage, an officer testified.  The policeman, Jason Obiatt, was the first witness called
yesterday at a weeklong preliminary hearing in state court in
Centennial to determine whether James Holmes should stand trial
on 166 counts, including charges of murder and attempted murder.
Obiatt described to Arapahoe County District Court Judge William
Sylvester how Holmes behaved at the time of his arrest.  “It was like there weren’t normal emotional responses to
anything,” said Obiatt, who was among the first police to
arrive on the scene of the shooting at a midnight screening of
“The Dark Knight Rises” in Aurora, near Denver. Obiatt said
Holmes was sweating under his armor, smelled bad and had dilated
pupils.  The hearing comes less than a month after the massacre at a
Newtown, Connecticut, elementary school that left 28 dead,
including the gunman, his mother and 20 children. Separately,
Aurora police this weekend stormed a house after a standoff with
another gunman and found four dead bodies, including the
gunman’s, the  Associated Press  reported.  Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the University of
Colorado-Denver, is charged with first-degree murder, which can
carry the death penalty in Colorado, and more than 100 counts of
attempted murder.  Obiatt testified that Holmes mentioned there were bombs at
his apartment and said they would go off “if you trip them.”  ’Very Detached’  “He seemed very detached from it all,” Obiatt told
defense lawyer Daniel King under cross-examination.  Thirteen-year Aurora police veteran Justin Grizzle, a
firefighter paramedic before becoming a police officer,
recounted arriving at the scene and seeing Holmes. “He just
looked at me and smiled,” Grizzle said.  “A smirk,” Grizzle said, after prosecutor Rich Orman
asked him to describe the smile.  Grizzle testified that he almost slipped and fell on blood
on the floor just outside the door to the theater. A tear-gas
like substance burned his eyes and throat, and cell phones were
constantly ringing, he said. Grizzle went on to describe seeing
what he thought were dead bodies, pausing to tell the judge he
was having a hard time testifying.  The officer said the first victims he took to the hospital
were a man in the front seat and a woman in the back who
appeared to be the parents of the youngest person killed, 6-
year-old Veronica Moser-Sullivan.  Lights, Sirens  The man asked where his daughter was and wanted to return
to the theater. Grizzle pressed on, with his lights and sirens,
to Aurora South Hospital. When the man opened the door and tried
to jump out, Grizzle said he wrestled with him to keep him in
the car for more than half the trip to the hospital.  Yesterday afternoon, King cross-examined Arapahoe County
coroner Michael J. Doberson, who performed half of the autopsies
in the case and ruled the deaths homicides. Under questioning,
the coroner said his definition of homicide was “clinical,”
not legal, and that he had not drawn a conclusion as to the
perpetrator’s state of mind.  King said there are different levels of homicide and that,
for example, one could plead “not guilty by reason of
insanity.”  July 8  A police officer testified that Holmes purchased his ticket
for the movie on July 8, 12 days before the shooting. Police
officer Matthew Ingui said surveillance video from the night of
the shooting showed more than 100 people running from the
theater.  At the conclusion of the preliminary hearing, Sylvester
will determine whether there’s enough evidence against Holmes to
proceed to trial.  “This preliminary hearing may influence the national and
Colorado debate on  gun control  and capital punishment,” said
Craig Silverman, a former Denver prosecutor now in private
practice as a criminal defense attorney.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kass in Colorado District Court in Centennial at
 kassj@msn.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  