-- Aussie Rises Against Major Peers on Japan Stimulus; Kiwi Slides
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-01-07T05:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/aussie-reaches-2008-high-versus-yen-as-japan-may-boost-spending.html
Australia ’s dollar rose against most
of its 10 developed-market peers on speculation  Japan  will
increase spending to bolster its economy, supporting demand for
assets linked to global growth.  The so-called Aussie advanced versus the  New Zealand  dollar
before data this week forecast to show improvement in retail
sales and building approvals in Australia. New Zealand’s
currency, known as the kiwi, weakened against the majority of
its peers as Asian stocks halted an advance from last week.  “Considering the relatively deep economic ties, an
accelerated rebound in Japan’s economy will be positive” for
the Australian currency, said Kengo Suzuki, a strategist in
 Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s third-largest
bank by market value. Suzuki said he is “bullish” on the
Australian dollar.  The Australian dollar traded at $1.0469 as of 4:23 p.m. in
Sydney after rising 0.1 percent on Jan. 4 to $1.0480. The Aussie
advanced 0.2 percent to NZ$1.2627. The kiwi fell 0.3 percent to
82.90 U.S. cents.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares declined 0.3 percent
today after climbing 1.8 percent last week.  The  yield  on Australia’s benchmark three-year government
note touched 2.87 percent, the highest since Aug. 17, and was at
2.83 percent, down 2 basis points since Jan. 4. New Zealand’s
two-year swap rate was little changed at 2.78 percent after
earlier rising to 2.8 percent, a level unseen since Aug. 17.  Japan is planning an extra budget that includes as much as
6 trillion yen ($68 billion) for public works, the Yomiuri
newspaper reported today, without saying where it obtained the
information. The nation is Australia’s biggest export market
after  China .  Australia’s Economy  Australia’s Bureau of Statistics will probably say on Jan.
9 that  retail sales  rose 0.3 percent in November from a month
earlier, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by  Bloomberg News . The report will be followed by data the next
day that may show the number of permits granted to  build  or
renovate houses and apartments increased 3 percent from October,
economists forecast.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators raised their
bullish wagers on the Australian dollar for the first time in
almost a month. Bets on an advance in the Aussie against the
 U.S. dollar   outnumbered  those on a decline by 79,522 on Jan. 1,
the first increase in the so-called net longs since Dec. 11,
according to figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  Technical Indicator  The Australian and New Zealand’s dollars snapped gains from
Jan. 4 versus the yen as a technical indicator traders use
signaled the South Pacific nations’ currencies have been
overbought. The Aussie’s 14-day relative-strength index versus
the Japanese currency climbed to 79 on Jan. 4, while that for
the kiwi advanced to 74. Readings above 70 indicate an asset
price may be poised to fall.  The Aussie earlier climbed to 92.85 yen, and the kiwi
reached 73.54 yen, the strongest levels for both currencies
since September 2008. The Australian dollar slid 0.4 percent to
92.06 yen following a 1.2 percent jump on Jan. 4. New Zealand’s
currency dropped 0.5 percent to 72.90 yen after a 1.5 percent
surge at the end of last week.  Traders see about a 60 percent chance that the  Reserve Bank 
of Australia will set the benchmark  interest rate  at 2.75
percent or lower in March, from 3 percent now, according to data
on overnight-index swap rates.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars can “expect to see
a bit more of near-term consolidation,”  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in  Singapore , said
in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We still have the view
that the RBA is going to be cutting rates at least one more time
this year, probably in the March meeting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  