-- Bank of Canada Starts Search for New Governor
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-01-07T16:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/bank-of-canada-starts-search-for-new-governor.html
The Bank of Canada has started the
formal process to replace Governor  Mark Carney , who is leaving
in June to lead the  Bank of England .  The committee of outside directors has placed newspaper
 advertisements  and hired recruiting company Odgers Berndtson
according to a statement today on the Ottawa-based central
bank’s website. The candidate selected by the directors also
needs the approval of the federal cabinet, including Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty .  Carney’s success in guiding the world’s 11th largest
economy through the global financial crisis suggests the bank
will seek “continuity” in monetary policy, favoring Senior
Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem, said  Craig Alexander , chief
economist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)  Canada exited the global
recession in 2009, faster than other Group of Seven nations, and
none of its financial institutions required public capital
injections .  “It’s widely recognized that Tiff Macklem is the most
likely candidate from within the  Bank of Canada , though I’m sure
the search committee will evaluate a large number of
candidates,” Alexander said in a telephone interview.  Macklem is scheduled to give a lecture Thursday at 4 p.m.
Toronto time in Kingston, Ontario. There won’t be a press
conference afterward.  ‘Unquestioned Competence’  The next governor should have “unquestioned technical
competence in monetary policy and, more broadly, macro-
economics, coupled with a highly developed understanding of the
financial sector, both institutions and markets, domestically
and internationally,” according to the job posting. The  salary
range  for the governor’s job in 2012 was C$431,800 ($438,100) to
C$507,900. The governor and five deputies implement monetary
policy by consensus.  Carney said Nov. 26 he would leave his job on June 1 and
start as Bank of England governor one month later, ahead of the
end of his seven-year term in January 2015. That gives the
directors less time to find a replacement than they had in April
2007, when then-Governor  David Dodge  said he wouldn’t seek a
second mandate after his term ended in January 2008.  Central bank spokesman  Jeremy Harrison  declined to comment
when asked for further details on the timing of finding a
replacement.  The bank’s mandate is to aim  inflation  at the 2 percent
mid-point of a 1 percent to 3 percent target range. Canada’s
inflation rate fell to 0.8 percent in December, the slowest in
more than three years.  “One of the key things they’re going to be looking for is
continuity,” Alexander said. “The Bank of England was looking
for a fresh perspective on monetary policy -- on the other hand
I think the Bank of  Canada  has conducted monetary policy
extraordinarily well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  