-- Barclays Profit Seen Boosted by Relaxed Liquidity Rules
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-01-07T16:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/barclays-profit-seen-boosted-by-relaxed-liquidity-rules.html
British, French and Nordic lenders
may be among the biggest winners of the decision by central bank
chiefs to relax liquidity rules, according to analysts.  The plan will allow U.K. and Nordic banks that have built
up so-called high quality liquid assets to sell and replace them
with higher-yielding securities, Andrew Lim, an analyst at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank, wrote in a note to clients
today.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest lender, may save
about 300 million pounds ($482 million) in interest costs,
increasing pretax profit by 4 percent, Lim wrote.  Some “banks will be in a position to reduce liquid asset
buffers and increase their stock of higher yielding, relatively
more illiquid assets, or else simply reduce their expensive
wholesale funding,” London-based Lim wrote. “U.K. banks are
the main banks that will be in a position to do this.”  Regulators agreed yesterday to water down and delay
implementation of the liquidity coverage ratio, which forces
banks to hold enough liquid assets in reserve to survive another
financial crisis. Lenders will be allowed to use an expanded
range of assets including some equities and securitized-mortgage
debt following the deal in  Basel , Switzerland. Banks also have
an extra four years to fully comply with the measure.  French Banks  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s two
largest lenders, are among the wholesale banks with the lowest
liquidity ratios that will find it easier to meet the new plans,
according to Lim and Kinner Lakhani, an analyst at Citigroup
Inc. in London.  Under the revised rules, banks will be required to hold a
third as much high quality liquid assets to support corporate
credit compared with the original plans, cutting costs for
lenders with a large corporate client base.  “We expect wholesale banks, notably the major French
banks, to be notable beneficiaries,” Lakhani wrote in a note to
clients. These changes “go beyond our expectations and should
be supportive for the banking sector.”  Barclays rose 3.5 percent to 286.5 pence at 4:12 p.m. in
London  trading . Societe Generale rose 2.4 percent to 30.03
euros. BNP Paribas jumped 1.9 percent to 45.21 euros. The 38-
member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
climbed 1.3 percent.  Lakhani also identified Barclays as a bank that will
benefit from the rule changes. Deutsche Bank AG analyst  Matt Spick  cited Barclays, Societe Generale, BNP Paribas and Swedish
lender SEB AB as potential beneficiaries.  ‘Material Improvement’  The liquidity changes are “a material improvement in the
regulatory environment that European banks face,” Spick wrote
in a note. “Corporate-heavy universal banks will be the biggest
beneficiaries.”  The U.K.’s five-biggest banks had 13 percent more high
quality liquid assets than required under the previous rules,
according to the Bank of England. That figure will increase
under the revised regulations,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
analysts led by Jorge Mayo wrote in a note to clients.  It will be “positive” for profits “as the absolute
amount of lower yielding liquid assets to be held by a bank will
be smaller and, at least partially, the liquidity buffer would
be derived from higher-yielding assets,” Mayo wrote. “U.K.
banks in this regard look particularly well positioned.”  Banks aren’t required to disclose their liquidity ratios
under European rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in  London  at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  