-- Barge Operators Boost Mississippi Cargo as River Deepens
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-01-07T21:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/barge-operators-boost-mississippi-cargo-as-river-deepens.html
Emergency work to deepen the
Mississippi River shipping channel will avert a shutdown of
barge traffic this month, lawmakers said as operators began
increasing their cargo loads on the nation’s busiest waterway.  “We’re back, moving up here,” Martin Hettel, senior
manager of bulk sales for AEP River Operations LLC of St. Louis,
said today in an interview in Thebes,  Illinois , where rock
obstacles threatened to jam traffic on the river.  Expedited dredging and rock removal, combined with a
warming trend and anticipated rainfall, will maintain at least a
10-foot river depth needed for navigation near Thebes through
this month, Major General John Peabody, commander of the U.S.
 Army Corps  of Engineers’ Mississippi Valley division, said
today. He didn’t offer a forecast beyond Jan. 31. The river is
about 11 feet deep at Thebes, officials said.  The Mississippi in a typical January carries as much as
$2.8 billion in cargo, including grain, coal and crude oil,
according to the American Waterways Operators, an Arlington,
Virginia-based industry group. The U.S. Army’s emergency steps
include dredging and removing rock obstacles in the river
between Illinois and  Missouri , due to the worst drought since
the 1930s.  Dredging Channel  Just north of the hamlet of Thebes, dredging boats
operating 16 hours a day sitting in the river, which the drought
has turned into a creek. Tractors on the vessels dip their
buckets into water, which then emerge dripping with mud dredged
from the bottom.  A single tow boat, waiting to pass through the work site,
is visible beyond the dredging vessels. Other boats wait to
negotiate a bend in the river, said Mike Petersen, a Corps
spokesman. At night, the river opens for barges, according to
Thebes Mayor  John Kennedy , a  Lowe’s Co. (LOW)  manager.  “It seems like it’s running pretty smoothly in the
evenings,” he said in an interview. Kennedy said he has never
seen the river as low as it is currently.  Corps and U.S. Coast Guard officials briefed lawmakers
including Senator  Richard Durbin  and Representative William Enyart, both Illinois Democrats, today at the Thebes courthouse,
an antebellum structure overlooking the river, where  Abraham Lincoln  is said to have practiced law. The building, with wooden
floors and a single room on the main floor, doesn’t appear to
have changed much since Lincoln’s day.  Obama Monitoring  Durbin said President  Barack Obama  is monitoring the water
levels in Thebes and is committed to keep the river open.  The White House has “ruled out nothing,” Durbin said.
“Everything is on the table.”  Enyart, who took office last week, said emergency steps
probably will be enough to prevent halting all shipping on the
river.  “I think we’re going to weather this storm,” he said
after a tour of the river by boat to examine excavation work.  Commodity exporters including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  of
Decatur, Illinois, and St. Louis-based  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the
largest U.S. coal producer, ship on the river. A disruption
might upend U.S. exports, which the Obama administration plans
to double by 2014 from 2009 levels.  Shipments Slow  Grain tonnage for the week ended Dec. 29 fell 26 percent
from the prior week and 28 percent from the same period a year
earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said in a Jan. 4
report. The U.S. tracked 199 grain barges, down 29 percent from
the prior week, USDA said.  Dredging and rock removal near Thebes will continue through
this month, according to Peabody. By the end of the week, the
channel will be at least two feet deeper, providing about 10
feet of water to accommodate vessels, he said. Contractors are
still working to widen the river at several bends in its course.  The steps mean barge operators can once again use towboats
that require at least 10 feet of water and add cargo to barges.
AEP River Operations, which doesn’t own boats that can operate
in shallower depths, on Jan. 4 resumed operations near Thebes
and will move as much as 350,000 tons of cargo downriver from
 St. Louis  in the coming weeks, Hettel said  The work doesn’t mean that shipping is completely back to
normal, Hettel said. An AEP customer may need to use rail, a
more expensive option than barge travel, to move a product at
least part of the way from  New Orleans  to  Chicago  later this
year, he said without identifying the company or cargo. A
decision needs to be made by the end of January, Hettel said.  Within two weeks, contractors will begin moving to a
stretch of river near Grand Tower, Illinois, to begin the next
stage of rock removal, Peabody said.  “We have a very positive outlook for the next few weeks,”
he said at today’s briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  