-- Basel’s Diluted Liquidity Rule Compounds Capital Failure
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-07T23:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/basel-s-diluted-liquidity-rule-compounds-capital-failure.html
The Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision has  announced  its new rules on bank liquidity, part
of the multinational effort to build a safer global system.  Not for the first time, the panel has retreated from its
initial demands, and the  final liquidity rule  is far less
rigorous than the committee had said it wanted and financial
markets had been expecting.  This is a shame, though it isn’t the biggest mistake the
committee has made lately. The failure to set effective capital-
adequacy ratios, which we’ve  lamented before , is by far a
greater cause for concern. The liquidity rule announced Jan. 6
merely confirms the main point: The Basel project is failing.  The committee issued its draft liquidity rules in 2010. The
idea was to lay down the quantity and quality of liquid assets
(in theory, assets that can be sold quickly without driving down
prices) that banks must hold to cover a run on deposits or some
other interruption in short-term funding. Under pressure from
banks, especially those in the U.S., most aspects of the draft
proposal have been weakened in the final document.  For instance, the new rule says liquidity must be enough to
cover a 30-day run on insured retail deposits of 3 percent,
instead of 5 percent as proposed. It also expands the range of
corporate debt securities that qualify as liquid to BBB- (the
lower boundary of “investment grade”); previously, the committee
said nothing less than AA- should be eligible. High-quality
mortgage-backed securities will also count.  Qualifying Assets  This broadening of qualifying assets means that almost all
banks already satisfy the rule -- a point that was acknowledged
by Bank of England Governor Mervyn King, the chairman of the
rule-setting committee. The rules were watered down further by
the panel’s decision to delay full implementation to 2019,
instead of 2015.  As guttings go, this is pretty thorough. It confirms the
committee’s reputation for delay, backsliding and willingness to
accommodate the preferences of  banks  -- the industry it’s
supposed to be supervising. If the panel had been mindful of its
credibility, it would have issued a draft it was willing to
defend in the face of expected pressure from the industry.  In judging the merits, though, bear in mind that designing
rules for liquidity is harder -- and less important -- than
designing rules for capital. In practice, a bank’s need for
liquidity can’t be measured in isolation: It depends, for
example, on its central bank’s willingness to lend in an
emergency. Indeed, a liquid asset could be defined as anything a
central bank will accept as collateral in a panic -- and that’s
a fast-moving target lately.  Here’s another complication. If a bank is told to hold
cash, central-bank reserves and high-grade liquid securities in
case of a run, it has less money to devote to ordinary lending.
At the moment, many banks, especially in the U.S., hold enormous
quantities of cash and excess central-bank reserves (the purest
forms of liquidity), and face criticism for hoarding these
assets instead of lending to finance investment or refinance
mortgages. The Basel supervisors have taken care, in effect, to
deflect blame for the lending drought away from themselves.  Banks, too, have made this argument against tighter rules
on capital -- namely, that more capital means less lending. In
contrast with the liquidity case, however, this argument is
false. Capital is a source of funds for banks, not (like
liquidity) a use of funds.  Lending Capacity  Requiring banks to finance themselves with more equity and
less debt doesn’t restrict their lending. True, it will reduce
return on equity, but that’s the counterpart of less risk, which
is the whole idea.  Capital is the ultimate safety cushion in a banking crisis,
because it represents a bank’s ability to absorb losses. This
makes the Basel committee’s earlier failure on capital adequacy
much more significant than the new muddle over liquidity,
regrettable though that is.  We’ve argued that banks need a simple, conservatively
measured capital ratio of 20 percent to provide an adequately
strong defense against losses. The committee has called for more
capital, but not enough. Again under pressure, it settled on a
too-complex formula relying on discredited risk weights, with an
overall leverage ratio (of tangible common equity to all assets)
of just 3 percent.  The ruling on liquidity ratios is disappointing -- but
Basel’s failure to ensure banks have adequate capital is much
more serious.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 