-- Beating Notre Dame for Title Adds $400,000 to Saban’s Payday
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-01-07T05:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/beating-notre-dame-for-title-adds-400-000-to-saban-s-payday.html
University of  Alabama  coach Nick Saban will collect a $400,000 bonus on top of his $5.9 million
salary with a Crimson Tide victory over Notre Dame in the Bowl
Championship Series title game tonight.  Fighting Irish coach  Brian Kelly  made $2.38 million in
2010-11, the most recent figures available from the Catholic
school, which isn’t required by law to make coaches contracts
available to the public.  Ohio State coach Urban Meyer, whose undefeated team might
have been facing Notre Dame for the title if it weren’t banned
from the postseason by the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association , risks losing a $250,000 bonus because his team
wasn’t eligible for the championship game.  “These bonuses are nice, but they play second fiddle to
what winning the national championship does to building a
coach’s legacy and how it affects his next contract
negotiation,” Scott Minto, director of the Sports Business MBA
program at  San Diego State University  said in an interview.
“For Nick Saban, who’s making almost $6 million, the extra 8
percent would just be icing on the cake. But another national
title could mean millions in salary down the road.”  Saban, 61, a four-time Coach of the Year, led Alabama to
its second national championship in three seasons a year ago
when the Crimson Tide routed Louisiana State University 21-0 in
the Superdome in  New Orleans . In tonight’s game, which starts at
8 p.m.  New York  time in Sun Life Stadium in Miami, Alabama is
favored by 9 1/2 points.  Fourth Title?  Alabama is 12-1, its only loss coming against  Texas A&M ,
29-24 in November, and is ranked No. 2 behind  Notre Dame  in the
latest BCS poll. Saban is seeking the fourth national title of
his career. His previous victories were with LSU in 2003 and
Alabama in 2010 and 2012.  Bloomberg acquired Saban’s contract by filing an open
records request with the university in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. The
school wouldn’t make Saban available for an interview.  Kelly meanwhile, took over an unranked Irish program from
Charlie Weis in 2010 and reached the postseason his first
season. After back-to-back 8-5 seasons, the Irish this year went
undefeated for the first time in 24 years. The  South Bend ,
 Indiana , school, winners of 11 national championships in its
125-year history, haven’t won the title since Lou Holtz was
coach in 1988 -- before anyone on the current team was born.  Kelly’s contract figures were available on the school’s
nonprofit tax return, which requires the school to list its
executives and their compensation. The school didn’t make Kelly
available.  Buckeyes’ Ban  While Saban has a potential championship and hundreds of
thousands in bonuses at stake tonight, that might not have been
the case if the NCAA hadn’t banned Ohio State from the
postseason.  Meyer accepted the Buckeyes’ job in November 2011, about a
month before the NCAA banned it from postseason play this
season. He still led the team to its first undefeated season in
10 years. Even though Ohio State had the best record in the Big
Ten and was the only major team other than Notre Dame to go
undefeated, they were banned from the conference championship
game and bowl games.  He still has a chance of collecting as much as $250,000 if
Ohio State finished No. 1 or 2 in the Associated Press poll,
which is a vote of 60 sportswriters. The Buckeyes are ranked No.
3.  “It’s highly unlikely they will wind up No. 1 regardless
of what happens in the championship game, because there is a
justified bias that they would have had two more opportunities
to win or lose, and without them they shouldn’t be considered a
national champion,” former college coach Gerry DiNardo, now a
Big Ten Network analyst, said in an interview.  Tattoo Trade  Ohio State’s ban stemmed from violations under former coach
 Jim Tressel . Eight players took cash and tattoos in trade for
jerseys and other memorabilia. Meyer took the job when the
school was awaiting the NCAA to decide on sanctions. Ohio State
did not make him available to be interviewed for this story.  Meyer’s six-year contract paid him $4.21 million in
2011-2012, excluding benefits. He earned a $50,000 bonus for
winning the Big Ten conference Leaders division, but missed out
on a $100,000 bonus and one-year contract extension for winning
the Big Ten Championship, because the sanctions prevented Ohio
State from playing in the title game.  He could still earn a bonus of $150,000 for finishing No. 3
through No. 10 in the final AP poll; or $250,000 for finishing
No. 1 or 2.  In 2013, he will receive a $150,000 bonus for playing in a
Bowl Championship Series bowl game or $250,000 for playing in
the BCS national championship game.  Unconvinced DiNardo  Though the Buckeyes will likely be a preseason favorite to
compete for the national title next season, DiNardo said he has
to be convinced.  “When a new coach comes in, everyone buys into what he is
selling and they pull together,” DiNardo said. “The second
year, there are guys, particular juniors and seniors, who see
they are not a fit for the offense or defense and aren’t part of
the plan and they become dissatisfied. There will also be
expectations and complacency that, ‘This was easy, we’ll be this
good every year.’ Urban will have to manage all that. So he’ll
have a different set of problems in year two.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  