-- Berlusconi Renews Pact With League, Putting Senate in Play
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-01-07T16:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/berlusconi-renews-alliance-with-league-signals-he-may-step-back.html
Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi renewed his campaign partnership with the Northern
League party, strengthening his chances in the Senate and
pressuring his chief rivals to forge an alliance of their own.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party reached an agreement
with the League to run together in February elections, he said
today on RTL radio. While the coalition’s campaign will be led
by Berlusconi, the premiership would be determined after the
vote, he said. Berlusconi, 76, agreed not to be premier if he
wins, Northern League General Secretary Roberto Maroni said
separately in Milan.  Berlusconi’s ability to reassemble a portion of his former
coalition increases his chances to win a blocking minority in
the upper house of parliament. Berlusconi’s main rival, Pier Luigi Bersani of the center-left Democratic Party, may need to
build an alliance with the political forces backing Prime
Minister Mario Monti in order to secure the Senate.  “The immediate consequence of the pact is that Monti’s
negotiation power vis-a-vis the center-left has increased very
dramatically,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London . “It will certainly accelerate the
dialog” between Bersani and Monti’s group of so-called
political centrists, Peruzzo said.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose 7 basis points to 4.33
percent, the biggest one-day rise in a month.  Broadening Coalition  Bersani, 61, may need to broaden his coalition from labor
unions, which form the base of the Democratic Party’s support,
to the liberal market forces that Monti, 69, represents. Bersani
risks alienating supporters including the CGIL, Italy’s biggest
union, and Puglia Governor Nichi Vendola if he seeks to draw his
policies closer to those of Monti and his backers.  Berlusconi, the most successful Italian politician of the
last two decades, is seeking a comeback 14 months after  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis pushed him from power and splintered his
parliamentary support. People of Liberty, or PDL, and its long-
time ally have been at odds since November 2011, when Berlusconi
backed Monti and the Northern League went into opposition.  Berlusconi told RTL he would consider taking the position
of finance minister if his coalition wins the election. If
Berlusconi wins the election, he said PDL General Secretary
Angelino Alfano may become prime minister. Maroni, who spoke at
a press conference televised by Sky TG24, said he would push for
Giulio Tremonti, who served as finance minister under
Berlusconi.  Premier Powerless  “In Italy, the prime minister has no real power beyond
setting the agenda for cabinet meetings,” Berlusconi said on
RTL. “The position that seems to me would allow me to take
advantage of all my experience would be finance minister, which
would allow me to demonstrate once again that I have no
political ambitions.”  Berlusconi eased the reconciliation with the Northern
League, a former separatist movement that seeks more autonomy
for regional governments, by criticizing Monti over the last two
months. Berlusconi hasn’t been able to reconstruct the full
alliance he once led because Pier Ferdinando Casini, a Christian
Democrat, and Chamber of Deputies Speaker Gianfranco Fini, who
had backed Berlusconi in the past, are now the main supporters
of Monti’s centrist movement.  Media Blitz  Berlusconi and Monti sparred over the weekend in a media
blitz. Berlusconi, who has disowned his previous support for
Monti’s so-called technocratic government of professors and
bureaucrats, criticized the administration’s economic policy and
its unpopular property tax.  “The technocrats have hurt the country,” Berlusconi said
on RTL. “After a year of government there is not even one
positive economic indicator.”  The criticism of Monti may be helping Berlusconi in the
polls. The PDL along with the Northern League, and some smaller
parties would win 28.8 percent of the vote if elections were
held today, according to a poll by Tecne for SKY TG24. That’s
more than twice the 14.3 percent for Monti and his allies, the
poll said.  The Democratic Party and its allies led in the poll with
support of 40 percent. That may be enough to ensure a victory in
the Chamber of Deputies, though that alliance could fall short
in the Senate, where  Italy ’s election law favors regional
parties like the League. Berlusconi’s alliance with the League
could strengthen their showing in the upper house and deny
Bersani a majority, potentially leading to a hung parliament.  Berlusconi vowed today to slash the cost of politics. All
candidates in Berlusconi’s group will be required to sign a
pledge to vote for laws that would cut the number of lawmakers
and each of their compensations in half.  Under the new alliance, Berlusconi agreed to back Northern
League leader Roberto Maroni as the candidate to head the
regional government of Lombardy, where Milan is located.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  