-- Bovespa Index Drops as Economists Cut Brazil’s Growth Forecast
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-01-07T21:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/bovespa-index-futures-decline-as-economists-cut-growth-forecast.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index fell to a
one-week low after analysts lowered forecasts for  Brazil ’s
economic growth this year, adding to concern that a sluggish
recovery may hurt corporate earnings.  Natura Cosmeticos SA, Brazil’s biggest cosmetics maker, had
its biggest one-day slump in almost four months. Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA led a rout by power utilities on
concern low water levels at hydropower dams may compel Brazil to
ration electricity this year. Securities clearinghouse Cetip SA-
Mercados Organizados fell after HSBC Holdings Plc lowered its
recommendation to the equivalent of hold.  The Bovespa retreated 0.9 percent to 61,932.54. Forty-eight
stocks dropped on the gauge while 18 advanced. The real rose 0.2
percent to 2.0276 per  U.S. dollar . Brazil’s gross domestic
product will expand 3.26 percent this year, according to the
median forecast in a Jan. 4 central bank survey of about 100
economists published today. They had forecast expansion of 3.3
percent a week earlier.  “In the short term, investors will be watching for signs
that growth is picking up, and for now things don’t look so
good, as the central bank survey showed,” Luis Gustavo Pereira,
an analyst at Futura Corretora in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone
interview.  Brazil has cut taxes on some consumer goods and reserve
requirements for banks and made the biggest rate reductions
among Group of 20 nations last year to revive growth.  Natura lost 3.2 percent to 57.89 reais. Cetip fell 1.3
percent to 25.70 reais.  ‘Actual Improvements’  “We need to see some actual improvements in the economic
outlook, both for Brazil and the rest of the world, so that
stocks can sustain the rally initiated in the first sessions of
the year,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee 220 million
reais at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil, said in a
phone interview.  Eletrobras, as the electric utility is known, tumbled 4.7
percent to 10.69 reais, and all but one stock on the Bovespa’s
 Electric Energy index  tumbled. President  Dilma Rousseff  called
an emergency meeting to discuss the level of water reservoirs in
Brazil because of risk of energy rationing, Folha de S.Paulo
reported today, citing people in government it didn’t identify.  When contacted by  Bloomberg News , a presidential press
officer who asked not to be identified in accord with internal
policy said Rousseff is on vacation and there is no such meeting
on her schedule.  The Ministry of Mines and Energy said in a statement today
on its website that Minister Edison Lobao will hold a monthly
meeting with government officials and regulators on Jan. 9.
Utility representatives may also attend, according to the
statement, which didn’t mention Rousseff.  Reservoirs Levels  Reservoirs in northeastern Brazil were 32 percent full, on
average, last month, less than the 34 percent minimum the
government considers safe for the region’s dams, according to
data on the national power grid operator’s website.  The Bovespa entered a  bull market  on Jan. 3 after rising 21
percent from last year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central
banks around the world eased concern that economic growth might
miss expectations and borrowing costs at a record low in Brazil
boosted equity demand. The index  trades  at 11 times analysts’
earnings estimates for the next four quarters, in line with the
ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for the gauge’s members was 28 percent
higher today than the average over the past five days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  