-- Brain-Injury Center Seeks Bankruptcy as Bank Sees Default
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/brain-injury-center-seeks-bankruptcy-as-bank-sees-default.html
Florida regulators are demanding that
a brain-injury treatment center with patients from across the
U.S. prove that it’s financially viable, as the facility seeks
 bankruptcy protection .  The Chapter 11 filing Friday by the Florida Institute for
Neurologic Rehabilitation Inc. followed Bloomberg News stories
about the alleged abuse and neglect of patients by their
caregivers at the 200-bed residential facility southeast of
Tampa. It’s one of the largest in the country treating people
with long-term disabilities brought on by brain trauma.  The filing came hours after Regions Bank sued the
institute, known as FINR, in U.S. District Court in Tampa,
claiming it’s in default on $31 million in real-estate loans.
The lawsuit by the Birmingham, Alabama-based unit of  Regions
Financial Corp. (RF)  says FINR stopped paying on the debt in August.  FINR’s owner, Joseph Brennick, said in a statement
yesterday that he was “confident” the facility could properly
care for the people living there while it undertakes a financial
restructuring. Media coverage led to “a significant decline in
revenue making FINR unable to meet is financial obligations,”
Brennick said in the statement.  Negotiations with Regions Bank are “ongoing and we are
making strides to resolve this successfully as we look for a
long-term solution,” he said.  After the bank sent FINR a default letter in September,
Brennick withdrew at least $466,000 from center coffers, the
suit alleges. In addition, FINR has failed to give the
government the payroll taxes withheld from employees’ wages and
hasn’t paid real estate taxes and routine operating expenses,
Regions Bank says in the suit.  Financial Instability  Lyndsey Cruley, a spokeswoman for FINR, didn’t respond to
requests for comment on the bank’s allegations.  The Florida Agency for Health Care Administration, which
licenses the center, ordered FINR on Friday to provide it with
detailed financial statements by the close of business Jan. 14.
The agency told the company it needs to show that it has
sufficient assets and revenues to operate for the next two
years, and that it can document its ability to correct its
financial instability.  Michelle Dahnke, a spokeswoman for the state agency,
declined to comment on the consequences if FINR isn’t able to
prove its financial strength.  At least five patients have died from alleged abuse or
neglect at FINR since 1998, two in the last two years. Since
2005, the state has received 526 allegations of abuse and
neglect, at least 37 of them classified by investigators as
verified, meaning they were supported by a “preponderance of
credible evidence.” Some of the complaints are still being
investigated.  FINR is fighting a Florida regulatory order from August
that it must move about 50 patients to other facilities. The
Regions Bank complaint alleges the center is in violation of a
loan provision that requires it to maintain a minimum daily
occupancy of 75 percent of capacity.  Four Chapter 11 petitions were filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Tampa, by FINR and three affiliated corporations. They
said in court filings that they estimated they owe between $3
million and $30 million to 103 to 346 creditors and that their
assets total $150,000 or less.  The list of creditors includes insurance companies, law
firms, medical supply companies, water and electric utilities,
the county tax collector and a public relations firm.  In its suit, Regions Bank asks that a court-appointed
receiver take control of the center “pending the foreclosure or
other disposition of the collateral” for the loans. The bank
alleges the current operation of the brain-injury facility
“jeopardizes both patient care and Regions’ interest.”  The case is Florida Institute for Neurologic
Rehabilitation, 8:13-bk-00102, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle
District of Florida (Tampa).  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
David Armstrong in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  