-- Bristol-Myers May Sell Experimental Migraine Drug
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-07T21:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/bristol-meyers-may-sell-experimental-migraine-drug.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  is planning
to sell an experimental migraine drug that’s in mid-stage
testing because the medicine isn’t a good fit for its business,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  While the drug, called BMS-927711, has completed the second
of three phases of testing generally needed for market approval,
the New York-based drugmaker hasn’t yet reported the  data . A
successful finding may set off the process to either sell the
product, or license it, according to the person familiar with
the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
company hasn’t yet made the plans public.  Bristol-Myers said in December 2012 that its neuroscience
efforts would focus on Alzheimer’s disease and depression.  About 12 percent of Americans suffer from migraines, severe
headaches that can last for hours, according to the  Cleveland
Clinic . Current therapy includes a class of drugs called
triptans, which constrict blood vessels in the brain to relieve
swelling and pain. The drugs are available as generics.  The Bristol-Myers product belongs to a class of medicines
being developed for migraines called CGRP antagonists. The
German drugmaker Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, has a related drug
in Phase 2 testing and, in 2011, Merck canceled development of
its CGRP drug. Before that failure, Merck’s treatment was seen
as a potential $1 billion seller, said  Seamus Fernandez , an
analyst with Leerink Swann in Boston.  Jennifer Mauer , a spokeswoman for Bristol-Myers, said in an
e-mail that the company had no comment.  Bristol-Myers shares rose less than 1 percent to $33.40 at
the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  