-- Bumi-Rothschild Showdown Set for February Investor Meeting
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-01-08T03:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/bumi-rothschild-showdown-set-for-february-shareholder-meeting.html
Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the coal producer that
plunged 69 percent last year amid a dispute over control, set up
a February showdown with co-founder  Nathaniel Rothschild  after
the financier moved to take over the company.  London-listed Bumi agreed late yesterday to Rothschild’s
request for a shareholder meeting to throw open 12 of its 14
board seats at an unspecified date next month. Rothschild said
in a letter yesterday that the board had failed, saying new CEO
Nick von Schirnding and Chairman Samin Tan are among members
that should be replaced.  Bumi was founded by Rothschild and the Bakrie Group, a
family-owned empire with investments in  palm oil  to property, in
a $3 billion deal in 2010 that grouped stakes in two Indonesian
coal producers. Its market value has since slumped 695 million
pounds ($1.1 billion) as boardroom infighting and financial
probes prompted moves by both parties to unwind their
collaboration, and Rothschild has sought support for a plan to
remove the Bakries as shareholders of Bumi.  “The calling of this general meeting will offer
shareholders a clear choice between the board and its strategy
of separation from the Bakrie Group, approved unanimously by the
independent directors, and Nat Rothschild and his associates,”
von Schirnding said in the statement.  Rothschild, who holds 14.7 percent of the  voting rights  in
Bumi, proposed former  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI)  head Wallace King
as chairman, Brock Gill as CEO and himself as an  executive
director . He also nominated Hashim Djojohadikusumo, as well as
Roger Davis, Jonathan Djanogly, a conservative member of the
U.K. parliament and former justice minister, and Richard Gozney.
Gozney is a former British ambassador to  Indonesia .  Benefits Seen  The changes in personnel would benefit Bumi, the Financial
Times cited  Richard Buxton , the head of U.K. equities at
 Schroders Plc (SDR) , as saying yesterday. Schroder Investment
Management Ltd. had a 3.51 percent stake in Bumi as of Oct. 3
last year, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  “The current board of Bumi has failed in its duties to
minority shareholders and has mismanaged the Bumi group,” NR
Investments Ltd., controlled by Rothschild, said in yesterday’s
statement. “The independence of the majority of the current
members of the board should be re-examined in the light of their
other interests and relationships.”  Bumi said last month it had rejected a five-step plan from
Rothschild regarding its coal assets. Rothschild made his
proposal after the Bakrie Group in October offered $1.2 billion
to buy all of Bumi’s producing assets -- a 29 percent stake in
PT  Bumi Resources (BUMI)  and an 85 percent holding in PT Berau Coal
Energy. Morgan Stanley is advising NR Investments.  Bumi Plan  Bumi is instead proposing a $430 million plan that would
see it sever ties with the Bakrie family and exit its investment
in Bumi Resources. The plan consists of the first part of the
Bakrie Group proposal made in October. Recent share price
movements have made the offer “more attractive” for Bumi Plc
holders, the company said yesterday in a presentation.  Output at Berau Coal is expected to meet guidance of 21
million metric tons for 2012, rising 9.5 percent to 23 million
tons this year, Bumi Plc said yesterday in a separate statement.
Selling prices for coal in 2012 were about $70 a ton, lower than
the $81.40 a ton a year earlier, it said. The company has
deferred some expansion plans following price declines.  “Our near-term strategy is very clear: to effect a
separation from Bumi Resources and to maximize value in our
operating subsidiary, Berau,” von Schirnding said in the
statement. The company is also reviewing the board structure, it
said in the presentation on its website.  Bakrie Response  Rothschild’s proposal is “yet another distraction from him
which, like most of his initiatives, is an unjustified attempt
to exert control over the company to the detriment of other
shareholders,” the Bakrie Group’s Long Haul Holdings Ltd. said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We believe shareholders
will see his attempt to reappoint himself and his nominees to
the board as a retrograde step.”  Jakarta-based Bumi Resources gained as much as 6.6 percent
to 650 rupiah and traded at 640 rupiah at 9:56 a.m. local time,
trimming its decline in the past year to 73 percent. Berau Coal
climbed 4.9 percent toady, taking its 12-month drop to 51
percent. Bumi Plc rose 7.4 percent to close at 288.5 pence in
London yesterday.  Bumi Plc said last month it had received a near-final
version of a report by law firm Macfarlanes LLP after a probe
that began in September into potential financial
“irregularities” at some of its Indonesian operations.  Panel Ruling  The U.K. Takeover Panel ruled last month that the Bakrie
Group and PT Bukit Mutiara, which together control 50.3 percent
of the voting rights in Bumi Plc, are regarded as “acting in
concert.” They must reduce those rights to less than 30 percent
by disposing of shares, the panel said in a statement.  “ Wal King , Roger Davis, Jonathan Djanogly, and Richard
Gozney are individuals of the very highest caliber, who each
bring specific, relevant expertise to a board badly in need of
rejuvenation,” Rothschild said in a separate e-mail. “They are
truly ‘independent’.”  “It will be interesting to see if Nat can get this
approved by shareholders,” Wilianto Ie, the Jakarta-based head
of Indonesia equities research at PT Nomura Indonesia, said by
e-mail. “The nomination of Hashim Djojohadikusumo as a board
member by NR Investments suggests Djojohadikusumo as a potential
alternative new investor.”  Djojohadikusumo couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment. Dileep Srivastava, a Bumi Resources director, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Singapore at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  