-- HTC Earnings Miss Analyst Estimates on Lack of New Phones
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-01-08T09:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/htc-posts-lowest-net-income-in-eight-years-after-revenue-drops.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-largest
smartphone maker, posted operating income that was lower than
analysts’ estimates as a lack of new models prompted a loss of
market share.  Fourth-quarter operating income was NT$600 million ($21
million), compared with the NT$1.11 billion average of 20
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net income was NT$1
billion, the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a statement
yesterday. That’s the lowest since 2004 and less than the
NT$10.9 billion it posted a year earlier.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 and new Galaxy models from  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  took market share away from HTC, which lacked
new offerings for most of the quarter. HTC’s stock dropped 40
percent last year and the company replaced its chief marketing
officer after its global share in smartphones dropped by more
than half.  “HTC’s operating margin barely met expectations and
December sales were below what many expected,” said Jeff Pu, a
Taipei-based analyst at Fubon Financial Holding Co. in Taipei.
“It’s due to non-operating items that net income was as high
because some models were not selling as well in the U.S. and
 China .”  Revenue dropped 41 percent to NT$60 billion, compared with
the NT$60.5 billion average of 23 analyst estimates. HTC on Oct.
26 forecast sales of about NT$60 billion, the lowest in 11
quarters.  HTC fell 4 percent to close at NT$276.5, the biggest
decline since Nov. 13. The Taiwan Taiex Index fell 0.4 percent.  Butterfly Sales  The company didn’t provide details of any non-operating
income earned during the period in its statement yesterday.  “There were no strong products for HTC in the fourth
quarter, so it will be the bottom of their sales and earnings,”
Richard Ko, an analyst at KGI Securities Co. in Taipei who last
week upgraded the stock to outperform from underperform, said
before the announcement. “New products such as Butterfly should
start to have an effect on their results this quarter.”  The company’s Butterfly J smartphone ranked 10th in  Japan 
in the Dec. 17-23 sales period, CNA reported, citing researcher
BCN. The company also is expected to release a new smartphone
this quarter.  Apple Settlement  Chief Financial Officer Chang Chialin on Oct. 26 forecast
an operating margin of 1 percent for the quarter, compared with
7 percent in the prior period, as lower sales cut profitability.  Two weeks after that outlook was given, the company
announced it had settled all patent cases with Apple and agreed
to a licensing deal. That pact wouldn’t have any adverse
financial impact on the company, it  said .  Pu, Ko and Macquarie Group Ltd.’s Daniel Chang upgraded the
stock following settlement of the lawsuits, which had threatened
shipments to the U.S.  HTC’s share of the global smartphone market dropped to 4.6
percent in the third quarter from 10.3 percent a year earlier as
Samsung’s lead widened, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries. HTC’s share of the U.S. handset market fell to 3.6
percent from 11.6 percent, according to the data.  Net income will climb to NT$2.16 billion this quarter on
sales of NT$61.8 billion, according to analysts’ estimates. HTC
will hold a conference call later this month to discuss fourth-
quarter earnings and the first-quarter outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 