-- Cameron Sets New Priorities for U.K. Coalition
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-07T14:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/cameron-sets-new-priorities-for-u-k-coalition.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
setting new priorities for his coalition with the Liberal
Democrats, put child care, the elderly and transport investment
at the core of his agenda in the run-up to elections in 2015.  Cameron, who leads the  Conservative Party , was holding a
joint news conference in  London  today with Liberal Democrat
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  to highlight their shared
agenda as they publish a “Mid-Term Review” summing up
coalition achievements since 2010 and announcing new policies.  “We will support working families with their child-care
costs,” Cameron and Clegg wrote in the joint foreword to the
document. “We will build more houses and make the dream of home
ownership a reality for more people. We will set out plans for
long-term investment in Britain’s transport infrastructure. We
will set out two big reforms to provide dignity in old age: an
improved state pension that rewards saving; and more help with
the costs of long-term care.”  Cameron indicated in a  Sunday Telegraph  newspaper interview
yesterday he’d like to stay in office another seven years, even
as opinion polls suggest the Conservatives may lose power in
2015. As that election approaches, he and Clegg will
increasingly campaign for their separate parties, rather than
pushing joint policies.  Savings Pledge  The first chapter of the document, dealing with the
economy, doesn’t mention the government’s announcement last
month that it’ll miss its target of starting to reduce debt by
2015 and take until 2018 to eradicate the structural deficit. It
pledges to increase central government savings to 20 billion
pounds ($32 billion) annually from 8 billion pound at present by
2015. The government will aim to give a quarter of its
businesses to small and medium-sized employers by that date too.  Relations between the coalition parties hit a low in July
after a rebellion by Tory lawmakers over an overhaul of the
upper House of Lords sparked retaliation by the Liberal
Democrats, derailing changes to electoral boundaries that would
have benefited the Conservatives.  An overhaul of the welfare system and Britain’s
relationship with the European Union have also divided the
coalition. The publication of today’s document was delayed for
six months as the parties sought common ground.  ‘Own Vision’  “We’re certainly going to be fighting the next general
election on our separate manifestos, just as all coalition
parties always do,”  David Laws , a Liberal Democrat minister who
was part of the original coalition negotiations, told BBC Radio
4’s “Today” program. “We’ll be presenting our own vision to
the public of where we want to see the country go in the
future.” Laws said the government had made “massive progress”
in cutting a  budget deficit  that stood at almost 160 billion
pounds ($257 billion) when it took office.  An opinion poll in the Mail on Sunday newspaper yesterday
showed the Labour opposition with 38 percent support, the
Conservatives with 29 percent and the Liberal Democrats with 11
percent. The  Survation  polling company, which questioned 1,002
people on Jan. 3 and Jan. 4, said 16 percent of respondents
expressed support for the U.K. Independence Party, which seeks
to pull Britain out of the EU. Such a result in 2015 would hand
Labour a majority in the House of Commons.  ‘Other Threads’  Cabinet minister Thomas Strathclyde quit today as the Tory
leader of the House of Lords, citing 25 years of front-line
political service and saying in his resignation letter to
Cameron that he would like, “while there is still time, to take
up other threads of my life and other interests.”  Labour mocked the timing of the resignation on the day of
the mid-term review. Jonathan Hill, an education minister who
 reportedly  tried to quit last year but was ignored by a
distracted Cameron and remained in post, replaces Strathclyde.  “You replace a Cabinet minister with one who tried to quit
and then announce it on the day of your relaunch -- the
incompetence is staggering,” Labour’s business spokesman, Chuka Umunna, said on Twitter.  Cameron is under pressure from Tory lawmakers angry their
views are being subordinated to policies favored by Clegg’s
party for the sake of keeping the coalition together.  And remaining in power is not a foregone conclusion for
Cameron, even if he does win the election outright in 2015.
Labour Prime Minister  Tony Blair  vowed to serve a full third
term in office before pressure from his own lawmakers saw him
quit in 2007 in favor of  Gordon Brown , three years before an
election had to be called.  Credit Rating  Yesterday, Cameron predicted a difficult year for the
economy that will require maintaining the current mix of low
 interest rates  and deficit reduction.  Convincing investors that they should keep buying U.K.
bonds is ultimately more important than whether ratings
companies downgrade gilts, he said.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered
its outlook on Britain’s top credit rating last month to
negative, citing weak growth and a worsening debt profile.  “We are dealing with the deficit, rebuilding the economy,
reforming welfare and education and supporting hard-working
families through tough times,” Cameron and Clegg wrote in the
document published today. “On all of these key aims, our
parties, after 32 months of coalition, remain steadfast and
united.”  “Of course there have been some issues on which we have
not seen eye to eye, and no doubt there will be more,” they
wrote. “But on the things that matter most -- the big
structural reforms needed to secure our country’s long-term
future -- our resolve and sense of shared purpose have, if
anything, grown over time.”  The coalition was formed in May 2010, with the two men
giving a news conference in the rose garden at Cameron’s London
office in Downing Street.  ‘Giggly Newlyweds’  Comparing them back then to “giggly newlyweds,” Labour
Vice-Chairman Michael Dugher wrote on the Politics Home website
yesterday that “the happy couple will this week reaffirm their
vows. But no amount of relaunching can obscure the reality of
the impact of their time in office.”  “They said they’d fix the economy,” Dugher said in an e-
mail. “But  living standards  are still falling for the hard-
working majority whilst a handful of millionaires get huge tax
cuts. They said they’d fix welfare, but the welfare bill has
gone up not down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  