-- Cameron, Clegg See U.K. Economy ‘Healing’ as Deficit Cut
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-01-07T16:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/cameron-clegg-see-u-k-economy-healing-as-deficit-cut.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  and his
deputy  Nick Clegg , announcing new priorities for their governing
coalition, said the  U.K. economy  is “healing” as they vowed to
push ahead with deficit-reduction plans.  “I am confident the British economy is healing; I am
confident we are doing the right things to tackle the black hole
in the public finances,” Liberal Democrat leader Clegg said at
a news conference, after the leaders were asked if they could
see growth returning after suffering a double-dip recession.
“Of course we want the healing process to take place faster,
but look at the headwinds we’re having to deal with,” such as
the crisis in the euro area and  consumer debt , he said.  Cameron, who leads the  Conservative Party , and Clegg were
highlighting their shared agenda in Cameron’s Downing Street
office as they published a “ Mid-Term Review ” summing up the
government’s achievements since 2010 and setting out policies to
take them to the next election in 2015. It is more than 2 1/2
years since they gave a joint news conference in the rose garden
at the London residence to mark the formation of the coalition.  The 46-page document published today, titled “The
Coalition: Together in the National Interest,” says detailed
plans will be published before the summer for public spending
for the 2015-16 fiscal year. Any spending or deficit-reduction
plans made then will outlive the current coalition commitment
that runs to the election in May 2015.  Cameron said the coalition had confounded expectations that
it would not last much beyond the fall of 2010.  ‘Determined Leadership’  “Some people thought our coalition wouldn’t make it
through our first Christmas, but this government is now well
into its third year, because this coalition was not and is not
some short-term arrangement,” he told reporters. “It is a
serious five-year commitment to give our country strong, stable
and determined leadership that we need for the long term.”  The rose-garden news conference was portrayed at the time
as the celebration of a “marriage” between the two parties.
Cameron sought to move away from that imagery today, conjuring
up instead a picture of British television advertisements for
Ronseal, a wood varnish that “does what it says on the tin.”  “To me it’s not a marriage, it is, if you like, a Ronseal
deal; it does what it says on the tin,” Cameron said. “We said
we would come together, we said we would form a government, we
said we would tackle these problems, we said we would get on
with it in a mature and sensible way, and that is exactly what
we’ve done.”  Asked whether the coalition would see out the full five-
year parliamentary term up until May 2015, Cameron said: “For
me, absolutely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  