-- Canada Dollar Gains for 2nd Day as Business Gauge Rises
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-01-07T22:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/canadian-dollar-gains-on-euro-on-bets-for-ecb-rate-cut.html
The Canadian Dollar rose for a second
day against its U.S. counterpart after a measure of business
activity expanded more than forecast in December, adding to
signals of faster economic growth.  The currency strengthened after  Canada ’s Ivey purchasing
managers’ index was 52.8 in December, following a November
reading of 47.5, according to a statement on the website of
Western University’s business school. Canada’s dollar posted its
biggest gain versus the greenback in almost five months last
week as employers in December added almost twice the number of
jobs forecast.  “It’s a sign that the recovery that’s burgeoning in the
U.S. is starting to spill over the border, or at least optimism
over the U.S. recovery is encouraging factories to ramp up
production or hiring,” Adam Button, a currency analyst at
Forexlive.com, said by phone from  Montreal . “Everywhere you
look, it seems you find good news in terms of the U.S. and
Canadian economy.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.1 percent against
its U.S. counterpart to 98.59 cents per U.S. dollar at 5:03 p.m.
in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0143.  Oil, Stocks  Crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 0.2 percent to
$93.30 per barrel. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.3
percent.  A gauge of volatility hovered at almost the lowest in two
weeks. Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
dollar versus the loonie touched 5.46 percent, the lowest since
Dec. 21.  The country’s 10-year bond yield was little changed at 1.94
percent. The 2.75 percent security due in June 2022 traded at
C$106.94.  The Bank of Canada said it will sell C$3.4 billion ($3.5
billion) of five-year notes on Jan. 9. The 1.25 percent
securities will mature in March 2018. It will announce further
details of a two-year note sale on Jan. 10.  Canada’s Ivey index rose for the first time in five months
Economists had forecast a reading of 49.8. Readings of more than
50 indicate purchasing by governments and companies advanced.  Business Pace  “It was a pleasant surprise, it did put Canada back into
expansionary territory,” said Camilla Sutton head of currency
strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  by phone from Toronto. “What
we’ve seen out of PMIs this round has been most of North
America, Asia and Latin America have been expansionary, with
 Europe  and  Japan  still contracting, and much of it contracting
at faster rates. Today’s Ivey sort of falls in line with that.”  Employers added 39,800 workers to payrolls in December,
lowering the unemployment rate to 7.1 percent from 7.2 percent
the previous month, Statistics Canada said Jan. 4 in Ottawa.  The loonie traded close to a level reached Jan. 2, when it
gained the most in more than three months, after lawmakers in
the U.S. avoided automatic austerity measures by agreeing to
raise taxes on the wealthy and putting off decisions on spending
cuts.  “You’re waiting for the next shoe to fall,”  David Tulk ,
chief macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities
unit, said by phone from Toronto. “A lot of the fiscal-cliff
information has already been absorbed into the market and we’re
not quite out of the woods yet there either -- negotiations on
the spending side are ongoing.”  Canada’s currency has gained 0.9 percent during the past 12
months versus nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped 3.7
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  