-- Cancers Linked to HPV Rise in U.S. on Low Vaccine Use
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-01-07T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/cancers-linked-to-hpv-rise-in-u-s-on-low-vaccine-use.html
Cancers caused by the human papilloma
virus rose in the past decade as use of vaccines by  Merck & Co. (MRK) 
and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  that may prevent the tumors was less
than recommended by health officials.  The rates of oral, vulva and anal cancers increased from
2000 to 2009, according to a study published today in the
Journal of the  National Cancer Institute . The incidence of
cervical cancer, also tied to HPV, fell in white women while
increasing in black women, the report said.  Merck’s vaccine, which came on the market in 2006, and
Glaxo’s vaccine, approved in 2009, protect against strains of
the sexually transmitted virus that are linked to cancer of the
anus, cervix, vagina, vulva, and throat. The U.S. recommends use
of the shots in boys and girls ages 11 and 12. Only a third of
girls ages 13 to 17 have been fully vaccinated as of 2010, well
below the 80 percent rate epidemiologists say is needed to
significantly reduce the prevalence of infections.  “Vaccination rates are still quite low in terms of where
we need to be to really impact HPV infections,” said Edgar
Simard, an author on the study and senior epidemiologist at the
Atlanta-based American Cancer Society, in a telephone interview.
“If we don’t address these disparities now they will continue
to manifest.”  Cancer Decline  The increase in HPV-related cancers contrasts with a
decline in the rate of all new tumors in men, the study found.
The rate for all cancers in women was little changed. Cancer
deaths continued to drop, falling 1.5 percent a year during the
decade. The biggest declines in death rates were in lung,
breast, colon and prostate cancers while deaths increased from
liver, pancreatic and skin cancers.  Cancer death rates have been falling since the 1990s
because of less tobacco use and more screening that can lead to
early detection and treatment, the study said.  “We are seeing the trend going in the right direction,”
said Brenda Edwards, an author on the study and senior adviser
at the National Cancer Institute. “These trends show we haven’t
eliminated cancer, but we have managed to be able to diagnosis
it and treat it.”  Researchers on the study said they aren’t certain why the
HPV vaccination rates remain low, though there are multiple
barriers to getting protected. Unlike most vaccines, it isn’t
required for school enrollment, putting less pressure on parents
to ensure their children get the shot. It also requires three
shots, meaning parents will have to take their child to the
doctor multiple times.  The lowest HPV vaccination rates were in southern states,
including Alabama and  Mississippi , and among people without
health insurance.  HPV-associated cancer accounted for 3.3 percent of all
cancers among women and 2 percent in men in 2009, the study
found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  