-- Caviar Distributor Gets Time Served for Fraud Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-07T17:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/caviar-distributor-gets-time-served-for-fraud-scheme-1-.html
A former caviar distributor who spent
more than 23 years as a fugitive was sentenced to time served
for illegally importing more than 100,000 pounds of Russian and
Iranian caviar worth more than $10 million.  Isidoro Garbarino, 69, an Italian citizen who was president
of the now-defunct Aquamar Gourmet Imports, was also fined
$10,000 today by U.S. District Judge Kevin Duffy in  Manhattan .
Prosecutors said Garbarino had faced as long as four years in
prison while defense lawyer Marc Greenwald asked the judge to
spare his client from serving any time.  “This case is old and more importantly the defendant is
old,” said Duffy, who is 79. “I know what old means, perhaps
much more than anybody else in the courtroom. The punishment is
the shame Isidoro Garbarino brought to himself and more
importantly to his family.”  “For the rest of his life, he will have to face up to that
fact, and if he ever has grandchildren, they will say, ‘Oh, yes,
my grandfather, he’s the felon,’” Duffy said.  The judge said Garbarino would be deported immediately to
 Italy  and wouldn’t be permitted to see his son and other family
members who were in court.  Fled U.S.  The case was first filed by then-Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Rudolph Giuliani  in 1987 and Garbarino fled the U.S. in July
1989. He has been in custody in a federal jail in  Brooklyn ,  New
York , since his arrest in September.  During the scheme, which the U.S. said ran from 1984 to
1987, Garbarino illegally imported Iranian and Russian caviar to
high-end shops and some of the world’s largest air and cruise
lines.  Shipping manifests show the caviar was sold to now-defunct
Pan American World Airways Inc. and served to first class
passengers on international flights.  Duffy said that, in his view, the victims of the fraud
scheme purchased “high-end caviar” and instead received a
lesser-quality product.  The judge called the case a “victimless” crime and said
that no one suffered as a result of the defendant’s crimes.  “Your victims have made it through and did not die in
1985, or 1986, that was a long time ago,” he told Garbarino.  Garbarino pleaded guilty in November to one count of
falsely classifying imported goods and one count of making false
statements in connection with the importation of the caviar. He
also agreed to make $3 million restitution to the  U.S. Customs 
and  Border Protection , which Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara’s office said represents the duties, penalties and
interest he owes for the unlawful shipments.  The case is U.S. v. Garbarino, 87-cr-00860, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  