-- Cemig Falls on Report of Low Reservoir Concern
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-01-07T16:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/cemig-falls-on-report-of-low-reservoir-concern.html
Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais  fell
to its lowest in a year as Folha de S.Paulo reported  Brazil ’s
government is concerned that the low level of water reservoirs
may lead to energy rationing.  Preferred shares  of Brazil’s second-biggest electric
utility by market value, known as Cemig, slumped 2.8 percent to
21.31 reais at 1:54 p.m. in Sao Paulo, the lowest on a closing
basis since October 2011. The MSCI Brazil Utilities Index
dropped 1.7 percent.  “If an energy rationing really happens, utilities would
generate less power and consequently have smaller revenue,”
Henrique Kleine, an analyst at Magliano SA in Sao Paulo, said by
telephone. “This would be an extra problem for these companies,
who are already facing declining income because of recent
measures taken by the government to cut rates.”  President  Dilma Rousseff  asked power utilities to attend an
emergency meeting on Jan. 9 to discuss the risk that the
country’s reservoirs might fall so low that energy rationing is
needed, the newspaper Folha de S.Paulo reported today, citing
unnamed government officials.  A presidential press officer who asked not to be identified
in accord with internal policy said by phone from Brasilia that
Rousseff is on vacation and there is no such meeting on her
schedule.  The Ministry of Mines and Energy said in a  statement  today
on its website that Minister Edison Lobao will hold a monthly
meeting with government officials and regulators on Jan. 9.
Utility representatives may also attend, according to the
statement, which didn’t mention Rousseff.  Reservoirs in northeastern Brazil were 32 percent full, on
average, last month, less than the 34 percent minimum the
government considers safe for the region’s dams, according to
data on the national power grid operator’s website.  Rousseff announced on Sept. 11 a plan to reduce power costs
by as much as 28 percent to aid households and manufacturers to
boost economic growth. Changes in contracts will be negotiated
with utilities as concessions on government-owned hydroelectric
plants are renewed between 2015 and 2017, she said.  Cemig said on Dec. 4 it wouldn’t renew contracts to operate
18 hydro plants because the terms were unfavorable.  The company’s shares lost 38 percent from Rousseff’s
announcement in September through Jan. 4. The Bovespa gained 7.1
percent during the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  