-- Cerberus to End Control of Aozora in $1.8 Billion Stake Sale
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-01-08T00:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/cerberus-to-end-nine-year-control-of-aozora-bank-with-stake-sale.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP, the
U.S. investment firm that controlled  Aozora Bank Ltd. (8304)  since
2003, is set to offload its holding after the Japanese lender’s
stock tripled over four years.  The private equity company will sell as many as 632.5
million shares at a price to be determined as soon as Jan. 16,
Aozora said in a statement yesterday. The  shares  were valued at
158.1 billion yen ($1.8 billion) based on the close in Tokyo.  Cerberus, which oversaw a turnaround at Aozora that
included eight years of profit and a 2006 initial public
offering, will pare its investment as the bank prepares to pay
back a taxpayer bailout, repurchase shares and boost dividends.
Aozora fell for a second day today on the news that the buyout
firm, which began accumulating its stake in 2000, would exit.  “It doesn’t look like a bad time” for Cerberus to sell as
the shares have climbed, said David Threadgold, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. “Cerberus is a private-
equity fund and has been looking for an exit for a long time.”  Cerberus will reduce its  voting rights  to 7.7 percent from
57.8 percent, the Japanese bank said. As many as half of the
shares, or 316.25 million, will be offered to overseas
investors.  Aozora, which increased threefold since the end of 2008 to
yesterday, declined 4.4 percent to 239 yen at 9:43 a.m. in Tokyo
trading. The stock has dropped 58 percent since it sold shares
at 570 yen apiece in 2006 in the biggest Japanese IPO in two
years. The nation’s  Topix Banks Index (TPNBNK)  has lost 67 percent in the
same period.  Global Offering  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Morgan Stanley will coordinate the
global offering, according to the statement. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Barclays Plc will help manage the overseas portion,
while Daiwa Securities Group Inc. and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. will work on the domestic sale, Aozora said.  The Japanese bank said in September that New York-based
Cerberus planned to sell some of its shares, without disclosing
the portion. The same month, Tokyo-based Aozora said it will pay
227.6 billion yen to taxpayers over 10 years, as well as buy
back stock and pay a bigger percentage of profit as dividends.  “Cerberus probably made a decent return despite a slew of
unattractive factors in  Japan  such as the shrinking population
and slowing economic growth,” said  Yasuhide Yajima , chief
economist at NLI Research Institute in Tokyo. “Aozora is a
domestically driven bank that needs a dramatic business strategy
to attract investors after Cerberus leaves.”  Three-Headed Dog  Cerberus -- named after a mythological three-headed dog
that guards the gates of Hell -- lost a bid to gain control of
Aozora in 2000, before succeeding in 2003 when it bought a stake
held by mobile carrier  Softbank Corp. (9984)  The lender’s predecessor,
Nippon Credit Bank, failed in 1998 as bad loans mounted
following the collapse of the nation’s  asset bubble . After being
temporarily nationalized, the bank was privatized in 2000.  Aozora, which means “blue skies” in Japanese, has since
made a profit in every fiscal year except the 12 months ended
March 2009, when the global financial crisis triggered a
worldwide recession. It repaid 127.4 billion yen to the
government when it listed on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange in
November 2006, after raising 351 billion yen from the IPO.  Weak credit demand is damping the profit outlook for
Japanese banks in an economy that has  shrunk  for two straight
quarters. Aozora’s net income will fall 14 percent to 40 billion
yen in the year ending March, the bank forecast in November.  “Aozora may attempt to repay public debt earlier than
planned to show their sound management” to prospective
investors, said Toyoki Sameshima, a Tokyo-based analyst at BNP
Paribas SA. “To do that, it must boost its bottom line, and
that won’t be easy given sluggish lending demand at home.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  