-- Chesapeake’s McClendon Loses Bonus Amid Investor Blame: Energy
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-01-08T21:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/chesapeake-energy-ceo-mcclendon-wasn-t-awarded-bonus-in-2012-1-.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s (CHK)  board
withheld Chief Executive Officer Aubrey McClendon’s annual bonus
after investors criticized the performance and management of the
second-biggest U.S. natural gas producer.  The board cut 2012 incentive compensation “substantially”
for executives and reduced perks, the Oklahoma City-based
driller said yesterday in a filing. Directors agreed to develop
annual and long-term incentive compensation plans to tie pay to
performance. The stock slid 25 percent in 2012 as the S&P 500
Oil & Gas Exploration & Production index rose 2.1 percent.  Chesapeake together with explorers like  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) 
led the U.S. drilling bonanza during the last decade that wound
up crashing prices for the fuel. The crunch in profit margins
forced McClendon to put assets up for sale including oilfields
and pipelines to raise cash and meet his drilling commitments.  The company lost $1.07 billion during the first nine months
of last year while net debt ballooned by 56 percent during that
period to $16.1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chesapeake said yesterday it will introduce proposals at
this year’s annual meeting to change voting standards to
strengthen shareholders’ influence. The company said it will
continue to seek a change in Oklahoma law to allow investors to
vote on the entire board in 2013.  Directors in April began investigating whether some of
McClendon’s personal financial transactions conflicted with his
duties after media reports of the CEO’s use of minority stakes
in company-owned wells as collateral for private loans. The
stock tumbled as scrutiny of McClendon’s personal transactions
compounded the impact of free-falling natural gas prices.  Lost Chairman Position  In response, the company’s board of directors stripped
McClendon of the chairman’s role, replaced more than half the
directors and cut board members’ pay by 20 percent.  Chesapeake replaced McClendon as chairman with former
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  Chairman Archie Dunham to lead a board
reconstituted at the behest of the company’s largest investors,
 Carl Icahn  and Southeastern Asset Management Inc. Chesapeake
plans to halt the well-investment program with McClendon in 2014
rather than the original termination date at the end of 2015.  “We promised that we were going to work hard to achieve
positive change, and I think these are positive changes,” Icahn
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “And I hope that there
will be more positive changes.”  Icahn said there also needs to be work to get to a positive
cash flow. The last time Chesapeake posted positive free  cash
flow  was 2001, and the company has only had positive free cash
flow twice in the past 21 years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Dividend Maintained  Even amid a squeeze in margins and reduced return on equity
over the last year, the company has maintained its 8.75 cent-a-
share quarterly dividend and is forecast by Bloomberg to leave
it unchanged in the first quarter of this year.  A telephone message left for Southeastern Asset Management
after normal business hours yesterday wasn’t immediately
returned.  In May, the board curtailed McClendon’s personal use of
corporate airplanes. Chesapeake said in its filing yesterday
that McClendon agreed to reimburse the company for personal use
of its aircraft amounting to more than $250,000 a year, compared
with a previous standard of more than $500,000 a year.  Analysis by the board’s Compensation Committee resulted in
2012 executive bonus reductions of more than 50 percent compared
to the prior year. The board cut McClendon’s bonus entirely “in
accordance with Mr. McClendon’s recommendation to such effect,”
according to the filing.  McClendon’s Bonus  McClendon’s $1.951 million bonus for 2011 dwarfed those of
some of his Oklahoma City-based rivals, including Continental
Resources Inc. Chairman and CEO  Harold Hamm , who received a
$1.25 million bonus, and Tom Ward of SandRidge Energy Inc., who
was paid a $1.523 million bonus.  Chesapeake’s share price tumbled 14 percent in 2011, while
Continental and SandRidge gained 13 percent and 11 percent,
respectively.  As part of a cost-cutting program, Chesapeake also said it
would “significantly” reduce its charitable, trade association
and political spending and implement an oversight program for
those payments.  New York Pension Funds  The board reforms give shareholders a stronger voice, New
York City Comptroller John C. Liu said in a statement yesterday.
Liu helps oversee the New York City Pension Funds, which
collectively held 1.6 million shares of Chesapeake as of Jan. 4.  Chesapeake’s 25 percent plunge in 2012 left its shares
closing at $16.62, down from the $57.25 offering price of its
last stock sale in July 2008. Chesapeake fell 4.2 percent today
to $16.88 at the close of trading in New York.  The board has not yet released the results of its
investigation into McClendon’s finances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  