-- Chiefs Hire Ex-Eagles Coach Reid After Going NFL-Worst 2-14
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-08T03:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/chiefs-hire-ex-eagles-coach-andy-reid-after-going-nfl-worst-2-14.html
The Kansas City Chiefs introduced
former Philadelphia Eagles coach Andy Reid as the replacement
for Romeo Crennel, who was fired last week following a 2-14
season that tied for the worst in the National Football League.  Reid, 54, was fired by the Eagles on Dec. 31 -- the same
day as Crennel’s dismissal. That ended a 14-year run with
Philadelphia that was the longest of any active coach in the
NFL.  Reid went 130-93-1 in Philadelphia while winning seven
division titles and making nine playoff appearances. The Eagles
had a 4-12 record this season after going 8-8 in 2011.  “The last couple of years weren’t good enough,” Reid said
at a news conference. “I look at the whole picture of those 14
years, and I take responsibility for each one of them. I
understand the energy that I have and that I can bring to the
organization. We will start from the bottom, and we will start
working.”  Reid becomes Kansas City’s fourth coach since 2008,
following Crennel, Todd Haley and Herm Edwards. The Chiefs have
had a losing record in five of the last six seasons, going 29-67
over that span with one playoff appearance.  The Chiefs announced three days ago that they had fired
General Manager Scott Pioli after a four-year run in which they
went 23-41, winning a division title with a 10-6 record in 2010.  Kansas City has the first pick in April’s NFL draft after
winning a tiebreaker with the Jacksonville Jaguars, who also
finished with a 2-14 record this season. It’s the franchise’s
first No. 1 selection since taking Hall of Fame defensive tackle
Buck Buchanan with the top pick in the 1963 American Football
League draft.  Reid’s Interview  Reid interviewed with the Chiefs for nine hours last week
and canceled trips to meet with the  Arizona  Cardinals and San
Diego Chargers about their coaching jobs, ESPN reported.  Reid had more wins than any coach in Eagles history and led
the franchise to successive National Football Conference
championships from the 2001 to 2004 seasons. He was fired after
posting consecutive non-winning seasons for the first time in
his tenure, with Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie saying it was “time
for a change. For Andy, for us.”  Reid was the offensive line coach at the University of
Missouri from 1989 to 1991 before joining the NFL as an
assistant with the Green Bay Packers.  The 47-year-old Pioli spent nine years with New England
before joining Kansas City in 2009, helping the Patriots build
an NFL-best 102-42 regular-season record.  “The bottom line is that I did not accomplish all of what
I set out to do,” Pioli, 47, said in a statement announcing his
release from the Chiefs. “I truly apologize for not getting the
job done.”  Chiefs owner Clark Hunt said last week prior to Pioli’s
departure that the new coach would report directly to him,
rather than to the general manager.  ‘I wanted a proved leader who has built a successful
program, an effective communicator, teacher and someone with a
high football I.Q. and a strong work ethic,’’ Hunt said.
“Finally -- most importantly –- I wanted a man of integrity,
who would hold himself and those around him accountable to get
the job done. What I didn’t know when I laid out those criteria
last week was that I was effectively describing Andy Reid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  