-- Chinese Mayor Apologizes for Drinking Water Contamination
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-07T11:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/chinese-mayor-apologizes-for-drinking-water-contamination.html
The mayor of the Chinese city of
Changzhi apologized for a delay in reporting a poisonous leak
from a chemical plant that caused the cutoff of water to 1
million people, the state Xinhua News Agency said.  The environmental authority in  China ’s northern Shanxi
province didn’t receive a report about the pollution from the
city until five days after the Dec. 31 incident when it should
have been reported within two hours, the official news agency
said, citing a news conference with the mayor.  About 9 metric tons of aniline, a colorless and poisonous
liquid chemical, spilled from a plant owned by Shanxi Tianji
Coal Chemical Industry Group, which also makes fertilizer,
disrupting the drinking water supply in Handan city downstream
in  Hebei province , according to Xinhua. The leak was due to a
loose drainage valve, Xinhua said.  Thirty more tons of aniline, which can be used to make
pesticides, have been found in a nearby disused reservoir, it
said, citing a local emergency response agency. The local
environmental bureau is cleaning up the contamination in its
reservoir, where water won’t be used until tests prove it safe.  Two telephone calls to Tianji Coal seeking comment were
unanswered outside regular business hours today.  Handan partially resumed operations of its Tiexi water
purification plant today after halting on Jan. 5 due to the
contamination, Xinhua said, citing local authorities. The city
also provided water from another plant using underground
supplies to meet demand. Water supply to about 85 percent of the
residents in Handan’s main urban areas returned to normal
yesterday, the  news agency  said.  Four officials from the Tianji Fangyuan unit of Shanxi
Tianji who hold “direct responsibilities” were removed from
their posts because of the leak, Xinhua said in a separate
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  