-- China Throws Gillard Lifeline as Iron Ore Revives
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-08T03:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/china-throws-gillard-lifeline-as-iron-ore-revives-surplus-goal.html
The determination of China’s new
Communist leadership to guard against slower economic growth
could throw a political lifeline to Australia’s first female
prime minister as she bids for re-election.  China’s growth is forecast to accelerate this year, helping
spur a 78 percent rebound in the price of iron ore that led
Perth-based  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  to resume work at a
project  suspended  four months ago. A revival of the mining boom
would boost  tax revenue  and bring Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s
budget surplus goal within reach as she seeks to come from
behind in polls in an election due later this year.  “It does put a surplus back in play,” said  Shane Oliver ,
head of investment strategy in Sydney at AMP Capital Investors
Ltd., which manages more than A$126 billion ($132 billion).
“That’s important for the government politically as the debate
has come down to ‘in surplus good, in deficit bad,’ which is
unfortunate because it ignores the fact that Australian finances
are in good shape.”  Gillard’s minority government has been criticized by the
opposition after the prime minister reneged on a 2010 election
pledge not to introduce a carbon tax and backpedaled last month
on a promise to deliver a surplus this year. Her administration
trails in opinion polls even as the nation entered its third
recession-free decade that’s yielded contained inflation, low
unemployment and higher growth than other developed economies.  ‘Attack Tool’  “Voters would respond very well to the government running
a surplus,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst at
Melbourne’s  Monash University . “It would also take out an
important attack tool the opposition had.”  Reflecting the surge in iron-ore prices, the 10-year yield
on Australian  government bonds  is at 3.41 percent, above the
central bank cash rate. The local dollar has stayed above parity
with the U.S. currency for more than six months, its longest
stretch on record.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest miner, has advanced
21 percent since Sept. 5. Iron ore is Australia’s biggest export
in dollar terms.  Another key commodity -- coking coal that’s used in blast
furnaces -- may also rebound from the lowest prices since 2009
as China rebuilds steel supplies, Barclays Plc’s investment-
banking unit said in a Jan. 3 report. The destocking of steel
has been more pronounced than usual and restocking typically
begins in late December, weeks before the Chinese New Year, the
London-based bank said.  Swan’s Retreat  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said last month Australia is unlikely
to deliver the surplus this fiscal year as weaker growth and a
strong local currency curb tax receipts.  “What we’ve seen is a sledgehammer hit our revenues,”
Swan said in a Dec. 20 news conference in Canberra. Rather than
find spending cuts that further slow the economy, he said the
government would concentrate on supporting  job growth .  Gillard had staked her economic credibility partly on
delivering the first surplus since the 2009 global recession.
The government, in a midyear review released in October,
forecast a budget surplus of A$1.08 billion in the 12 months
ending June 30. It recorded a A$44 billion deficit last fiscal
year.  Returning the  federal budget  to surplus was rated as a high
priority by 35 percent of voters surveyed by Newspoll for the
Australian newspaper on Oct. 26-28, while 56 percent said it was
either not a priority or a low one. The telephone survey of
1,218 people had a margin of error of plus or minus three
percentage points.  Hockey’s Response  Joe Hockey , the opposition’s treasury spokesman, said
Swan’s Dec. 20 announcement that a surplus was unlikely
vindicated his stance on the government.  “They’ve been fudging the numbers and we said they’re
never going to deliver a real surplus and we’ve been proven
right,” he said in a Dec. 21 interview with Australian
Broadcasting Corp. television.  The government relies on the support of Greens and
independents to maintain a majority and Gillard’s popularity
fell last month. Support for the ruling Labor party dropped four
percentage points to 32 percent, with  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-
National opposition rising three points to 46 percent, according
to a Newspoll survey published in the Australian on Dec. 11.  Kings Project  Increased  confidence  provided by a rebound in prices is
reflected in the decision by Fortescue, Australia’s biggest  iron
ore  producer after Rio Tinto Group and BHP and a bellwether for
the industry, to resume work on its Kings deposit in the Pilbara
region in the north of Western Australia state.  Fortescue announced Dec. 27 it will resume development that
will increase production capacity by 40 million metric tons a
year once the mine starts in December 2013, taking total
capacity to 155 million tons a year.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  said
last month the company will account for about 50 percent of the
growth in global iron ore supply this year.  The price of iron ore reached $153.90 per metric ton on
Jan. 7, compared with $86.70 in September, a three-year low.  Prices are rising partly because of the threat of cyclone
disruptions and in anticipation of rising steel demand in China
following the leadership change. Prices are expected to retreat
from the current highs to average $120 a metric tons this year,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Cyclone ‘Specter’  “Even though there’s no cyclone scare, there is the
specter hanging over the market. Buyers of iron ore are just a
little edge at the moment,” Joel Crane, research analyst with
Morgan Stanley Australia Ltd., said by phone.  Australia’s better prospects prompted a drop in bets on
another reduction in the overnight cash-rate target at the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia’s Feb. 5 meeting. Traders are pricing
in a 40 percent chance of a quarter percentage point reduction
to 3 percent, compared with 59 percent on Dec. 31, swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The central bank has lowered  borrowing costs  by 1.75
percentage points since Nov. 1, 2011, to help cushion the
economy ahead of a plateau in mining investment in the first
half of this year.  A government report today showed Australia’s trade deficit
widened in November to the most since 2008 as a rise in iron ore
exports was offset by a surge in imports led by industrial
transport equipment.  China’s Outlook  A quarterly global poll conducted Nov. 27 of 862 investors,
analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers showed
confidence in  China’s economy  is at the highest in more than a
year amid optimism that the new leadership headed by  Xi Jinping 
will pursue policies that help boost growth. Xi was named
general secretary of the ruling Communist Party in November and
is set to succeed  Hu Jintao  as president in March.  China’s gross domestic product is poised to expand 8.1
percent this year, up from 7.7 percent in 2012, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed last month by  Bloomberg
News .  Elsewhere, unemployment in the euro area probably rose to
11.8 percent in December, economists predicted before a report
today. In the U.S., a Federal Reserve report may show  consumer
credit  in November probably gained less than it did a month
earlier, a survey of economists showed.  Asian stocks dropped today as Japanese exporters declined
after the yen’s advance dimmed the outlook for overseas
earnings. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.3 percent to 131.07
as of 11:59 a.m. Tokyo time.  Labor Market  Australia’s unemployment rate fell to 5.2 percent in
November from 5.4 percent a month earlier and the economy
expanded 3.1 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier,
among the fastest in the developed world.  Still, an Australian Bureau of Statistics report next week
may show job growth last month capped the worst back-to-back
years since 1997 as the resource bonanza eased. Gillard’s
government is counting on demand from China to improve on that
and burnish her economic record.  AMP Capital’s Oliver said that even if the government
didn’t achieve its surplus aim, it may record a deficit of A$3
billion or A$4 billion rather than A$10 billion or A$12 billion.
“What financial markets would look at is this: last year it was
A$40 billion, this year it’s a very small deficit, that’s a
pretty good improvement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  