-- Chinese Stocks Swing Between Gains and Losses; Drugmakers Jump
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-01-07T02:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/china-s-stock-futures-drop-signaling-decline-for-shanghai-index.html
Chinese stocks swung between gains
and losses as technology shares declined, while health-care
companies rallied.  GoerTek Inc., a supplier to Apple Inc., dropped 3.9
percent, leading a slump for technology shares. Beijing Tiantan
Biological Products jumped 10 percent after the government said
it is targeting average annual output growth of more than 20
percent for the biomedical industry from 2013 to 2015.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.2 percent to
2,272.58 at 10:06 a.m. local time, after gaining as much as 0.2
percent. The index’s 14-day relative strength index was at 76.94
on Jan. 4, when it rose 0.4 percent on its first trading day
this year. The RSI measures how rapidly prices have advanced or
declined during the specified time period. Some analysts see a
reading of more than 70 as a signal to sell.  “Investors are taking profits in the very short term after
sharp gains recently,” said  Zhang Gang , a strategist at Central
China Securities Holdings Co. in Shanghai. “The rally momentum
hasn’t ended. Investors are still waiting for the new government
to act with policy initiatives and there are a lot of
expectations.”  The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slipped 0.2 percent at 2,518.99 today,
after briefly rallying more than 20 percent from last year’s low
on Dec. 4. An advance of a 20 percent or more from a low signals
a  bull market  to some investors. The Shanghai index posted its
largest monthly gain since July 2009 last month after the
government said it would spend more on urban development to
drive economic growth.  Urban Transport  Policy makers will support the development of
environmentally friendly urban transport systems and offer tax
breaks and fuel subsidies for mass transit vehicles, according
to a statement by the State Council, or cabinet, posted on the
central government’s website on Jan. 5.  Li Keqiang , No 2 in the ruling Communist Party’s hierarchy,
is championing urbanization as a new growth engine that will
boost incomes and consumption. The focus on improving public
transport comes as the government faces growing discontent over
pollution that’s caused partly by surging  car ownership .  The biggest monthly gain for  Chinese stocks  in two years is
poised to falter should the nation’s new leaders fail to push
ahead with reform of state-owned companies, according to the
Shanghai government’s investment arm.  The new generation of Communist Party leaders headed by Xi Jinping needs to break the monopoly of government enterprises by
introducing more competition and to ease financing for smaller
companies to keep economic growth at about 7 percent to 8
percent over the next 10 years, Pang Yang, chief executive
officer with the financial-service advisory unit of Shanghai
Alliance Investment Ltd., said in an interview at a Bloomberg
hedge-fund forum in Shanghai on Jan. 5.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  added less than 0.1 percent today. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, gained 0.4 percent in  New York  on
Dec. 4.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  