-- China’s Stocks Rise, Led by Health-Care, Financial Companies
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-01-07T05:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/china-s-stocks-rise-led-by-health-care-financial-companies.html
China ’s  stocks  rose, led by health-
care and financial companies, amid signs of an economic recovery
in the world’s second-largest economy.  Beijing Tiantan Biological Products paced gains for  health-
care  companies, jumping 10 percent as the government said it’s
targeting average annual output growth of more than 20 percent
for the biomedical industry. Shanghai Pudong Development Bank
Co. surged to an 7-month high after estimating a 25 percent jump
in 2012 net income. GoerTek Inc., a supplier to Apple Inc.,
dropped 4.8 percent, dragging down technology shares.  The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  gained 0.2 percent to 2,530.14 at 1:17
p.m., after rising as much as 0.9 percent and entering a  bull
market . The Shanghai Composite Index advanced 0.2 percent to
2,281.62 and has rallied 16 percent since hitting a near four-
year low on Dec. 3. A gain of 20 percent or more signals a bull
market to some investors.  “The rally momentum hasn’t ended,” said  Zhang Gang , a
strategist at Central China Securities Holdings Co. in Shanghai.
“Expectations for policy measures aren’t completely priced in.
Investors are still waiting for the new government to act with
policy initiatives and there are a lot of expectations. Economic
data are also showing steady gains.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  added less than 0.1 percent today. The
Bloomberg China-US 55 Index, the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, gained 0.4 percent in  New York  on
Dec. 4. Chinese stocks have rallied in the past month on
speculation increased spending on infrastructure will spur a
rebound in the economy from a seven-quarter slowdown.  Banks Rally  The nation’s gross domestic product probably expanded 7.8
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, from a three-
year low of 7.4 percent in the previous three months, according
to the median estimate of 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
last month. The GDP data are scheduled to be released Jan. 18.  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank climbed 2.2 percent to
10.24  yuan . Its 2012 net imcome may be 34.2 billion yuan ($5.49
billion), according to statement to the  Shanghai Stock Exchange .
Industrial Bank Co. jumped 4.1 percent to 17.47 yuan. China
Minsheng Banking Corp. surged 2.5 percent to 8.18 yuan.  Pudong Bank’s better-than-expected 25 percent profit growth
“raises the curtain” for Chinese banks’ earnings reports, Ping
An Securities said in a note today. “We expect more banks to
post results that beat market expectations and dismiss concerns
on profit growth and asset quality. Banking valuations will be
repaired as fundamentals improve,” Ping An said.  Urban Development  The CSI 300’s last bull-market rally began in July 2010 and
lasted until November that year with the stock gauge jumping 41
percent. The index entered a  bear market  in August 2011 as the
government raised  interest rates  and ordered banks to set aside
more funds as deposit reserves to cool inflation.  The  Shanghai index  posted its largest monthly gain since
July 2009 last month after the government said it would spend
more on  urban development  to drive economic growth.  Policy makers will support the development of
environmentally friendly urban transport systems and offer tax
breaks and fuel subsidies for mass transit vehicles, according
to a statement by the State Council on Jan. 5.  Li Keqiang , No 2 in the ruling Communist Party’s hierarchy,
is championing urbanization as a new growth engine that will
boost incomes and consumption. The focus on improving public
transport comes as the government faces growing discontent over
pollution that’s caused partly by surging  car ownership .  SOE Reform  A gauge of  health-care stocks  in the CSI 300 rose 1.1
percent, the most among 10 industry groups. Beijing Tiantan
Biological Products surged 10 percent to 13.41 yuan. Hualan
Biological Engineering Inc. jumped 7.7 percent to 22.13 yuan.
China’s target for the biomedical industry is for 2013 to 2015,
according to a State Council statement posted on the central
government’s website on Jan. 6.  Trading volumes in the  Shanghai  Composite were 33 percent
higher than the 30-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The index trades at 9.9 times estimated earnings,
compared with the  five-year average  of 15.3, according to weekly
Bloomberg data.  The biggest monthly gain for Chinese stocks in two years is
poised to falter should the nation’s new leaders fail to push
ahead with reform of state-owned companies, according to the
Shanghai government’s investment arm.  The new generation of Communist Party leaders headed by Xi
Jinping needs to break the monopoly of government enterprises by
introducing more competition and to ease financing for smaller
companies to keep economic growth at about 7 percent to 8
percent over the next 10 years, Pang Yang, chief executive
officer with the financial-service advisory unit of Shanghai
Alliance Investment Ltd., said in an interview at a Bloomberg
hedge-fund forum in Shanghai on Jan. 5.  GoerTek dropped 4.8 percent to 34.90 yuan. A gauge of
technology shares in the CSI 300 trades at 22 times reported
earnings, compared with 12.7 for the broader index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  