-- China Growth Can Beat 8% for 20 Years on Reform, Lin Says
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-01-07T21:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/china-growth-can-beat-8-for-20-years-on-reform-lin-says.html
China ’s economy has the potential to
grow 8 percent annually over the next 20 years should the nation
reduce support for state companies and unshackle banks,
according to Lin Yifu, a former World Bank chief economist.  “We can be quite optimistic,” Lin, who now teaches at
Peking University in Beijing, said at a New York Stock Exchange
conference on China’s economy yesterday. To harness its
potential, the country needs to widen income distribution and
cap “widespread” corruption, he said.  The  Chinese economy  is showing signs of recovering from a
slowdown that spanned the seven quarters to Sept. 30, with data
from manufacturing to retail sales and industrial production
indicating expansion over the past two months. The world’s
second largest economy is poised to grow 8.1 percent this year,
from 7.7 percent in 2012, according to the median estimates of
49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg last month.  Lin predicted that China’s gross domestic product will rise
as much as 8.5 percent this year, driven by investment in
infrastructure, upgrades of equipment and machinery, and
personal consumption. Lin, 61, was chief economist at the
Washington-based World Bank, a post typically held by European
and U.S. citizens, between 2008 and 2012.  China can sustain such a fast pace of growth in the long
term by using technologies created in developed economies at
relatively low cost, Lin said. China is following 13 other
countries that have maintained an expansion rate of more than 7
percent annually for 25 years, including  Singapore  and South
Korea, he said.  Leadership Change  Chinese banks need to be given more freedom to set interest
rates, according to Lin. The current economic model sees lenders
channel cheap capital to companies controlled by the government
and “elites, sowing the ground for corruption,” he said.  Asia’s largest economy, China was  ranked  75th in Berlin-
based Transparency’s International’s 2011 Corruption Perceptions
Index, behind  Brazil  and ahead of Russia and  India .  China underwent a once-a-decade leadership transition in
November, with Xi Jinping named general secretary of the ruling
Communist Party. Xi, set to succeed Hu Jintao as president in
March, said last month that China shouldn’t delay economic
restructuring or shy away from unfavorable factors at home and
abroad, the official Xinhua News Agency reported on Dec. 10.  Qin Xiao, former chairman of investment company China
Merchants Group Ltd., echoed Lin’s call for economic reform.  Local Debt  Qin, chairman of the Boyuan Foundation, a Hong Kong non-
profit group, proposed a reform plan for the next three years at
the conference that includes the opening up of China’s capital
markets, cuts to tax rates and allowing local governments to
issue debt.  China shelved plans in June to allow local bodies to raise
debt directly after a trial program undertaken in November 2011.
The governments were banned in 1994 from issuing bonds, a move
which led to the creation of more than 10,000 local-
administration financing vehicles, which boosted borrowing as
part of stimulus spending during the global financial crisis.  Any changes to Chinese economic policy will be gradual and
the nation, which is the world’s largest exporter, will avoid
“shock therapy,” Lin said. Marginal reforms taken
accumulatively should achieve their goals over time, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  