-- Christie Stands by Comeback as Sandy Drives Election Year
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-01-07T18:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/christie-stands-by-comeback-as-sandy-drives-election-year.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, a
Republican at odds with his own party over delays in federal aid
for  Hurricane Sandy  victims, said storm recovery will dominate
the year and determine whether he wins a second term in
November.  The governor, who hasn’t ruled out a 2016 presidential run,
said the economic “Jersey Comeback” he’s been touting for a
year hasn’t petered out, though Sandy slowed it. The superstorm
will be the focus of tomorrow’s State of the State speech,
Christie said in an interview Jan. 4, three days after attacking
fellow Republicans in Congress for canceling a House vote on
disaster assistance.  “Whatever it was going to be, it’s now all going to be
about the storm -- the aftermath of that and the rebuilding and
recovery from that,” said Christie, 50. “I don’t think there’s
really anything that I could discuss with the people of the
state that’s more relevant than that.”  Christie’s first term, marked by partisan disagreements
over tax cuts, revenue projections and payouts for state
workers’ accumulated leave, was recast when Sandy hit New
Jersey’s coastline on Oct. 29. The storm left 2.7 million
residents without power, crippled mass transit and flattened
some seaside communities.  The governor’s reaction to the storm helped him win the
backing of Democratic and independent voters, polls showed.
Christie praised Democratic President  Barack Obama ’s response to
Sandy, angering some Republicans, and scolded U.S. House
Republicans who didn’t take up a disaster-aid vote on Jan. 1.  Unlike Others  “He’s selling himself to be a Republican who is unlike the
Republicans who are unpopular and who have low approval
ratings,” said Julian Zelizer, a professor of history and
public affairs at Princeton University in Princeton, New Jersey.
“If he wants to run in 2016, the more he can separate himself
from this part of the Republican caucus, the better he is.”  Christie, who became a national Republican figure with his
calls for smaller government, turned down calls to run for
president in October 2011, saying he couldn’t abandon his
commitment to help New Jersey voters recover from the recession.
He used his 2012 State of the State to proclaim that a comeback
had begun, and to call for an income-tax cut.  Credit Outlook  The governor projected 7.2 percent annual revenue growth in
the fiscal year that began July 1, second only to a 7.7 percent
jump projected by California Governor Jerry Brown, according to
an analysis by the New Jersey treasurer’s office.  Christie’s forecasts were challenged by Democrats and by
Standard & Poor’s, the credit-rating company that in September
changed its outlook on state debt to negative from stable.
Democrats, who control the Legislature, have refused to approve
Christie’s tax cut until revenue meets his targets.  Revenue growth through November was 0.2 percent, and that
shortfall was only partly because of Sandy. Collections for the
rest of the fiscal year will need to climb 12 percent to meet
Christie’s $31.7 billion budget, according to the nonpartisan
Office of Legislative Services.  Prior to the storm, income-tax collections were keeping
pace with Christie’s targets and the national economy was the
prime reason that sales levies were 9 percent below targets, the
governor said during the 35-minute interview. He said he
anticipates growth in the fiscal fourth quarter based on
 Louisiana ’s experience after Hurricane Katrina in 2005.  “I feel pretty good about where we are in the comeback,”
Christie said.  Balanced Budget  David Rosen, the legislature’s chief fiscal analyst, said
on Jan. 3 that Christie’s budget is $700 million short, and that
figure could grow to as much as $2 billion if revenue remains
little changed through June 30.  “He needs to lay out how he’s going to reverse this trend
we’re in and start to get some economic growth,” Senator Paul Sarlo, a Democrat from Wood-Ridge who is chairman of the budget
committee, said of Christie’s speech. “He needs to lay out how
he’s going to get this thing back into balance.”  After taking office in 2010, Christie declared a fiscal
emergency and froze aid to schools and cities to close a $2.2
billion deficit inherited from his predecessor, one-term
Democrat Jon Corzine. Christie said last month that mid-year
spending cuts may be needed.  Jobs Plan  The state’s unemployment  rate  rose in November to 9.6
percent -- the nation’s fourth-highest -- from 9 percent in
January, as the U.S. level fell to 7.7 percent from 8.3 percent.
Though the state has added about 75,000 private jobs since
Christie took office, the number of positions declined for five
consecutive months through November, and is still down more than
173,000 from the start of 2008 when the recession began, state
Labor Department data  show .  November revenue missed Christie’s targets by 11 percent
after Sandy kept shoppers and Atlantic City gamblers at home. In
Congress, Republican House Speaker John Boehner’s decision to
delay a vote on a $60 billion aid package set New Jersey’s
recovery back months, Christie said in the interview. He
declined to be more specific. The state can still afford a tax
cut, he said.  Sandy may provide Christie with political cover for moves
that were previously frowned upon, such as higher spending or
borrowing, said Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth
University Polling Institute in West Long Branch, New Jersey.  “There’s an expectation that he needs to do whatever he
must to rebuild and that’s going to cost money,” Murray said.
“It just made it easier for him to argue for what in essence
would be deficit spending. The question is, because it’s an
election year, what will Democrats let him get away with?”  ‘Got Lucky’  Senate President Stephen Sweeney, a Democrat from West
Deptford, said Christie has used the storm as cover for his
failure to have an economic-growth plan.  “His jobs package is a hurricane: I guess he prayed a lot
and got lucky the storm came,” Sweeney said today in a
Statehouse press conference. “I think he’s using it to hide
from these other problems. These issues are still here and they
can’t be ignored.”  Sweeney, who said he’s considering a run for governor
against Christie, apologized shortly after the “lucky” remark.  ‘Know-Nothings’  Christie had a 72 percent approval rating in a Quinnipiac
University poll on Nov. 27, a jump of 16 percentage points from
October and its  highest ever  for a New Jersey governor. He said
on Nov. 26 that he will seek a second term to help oversee
rebuilding from Sandy, which by the administration’s estimate
cost New Jersey $36.9 billion.  Christie called his fellow Republicans in Congress “know-
nothings” after Boehner pulled the aid vote off the House
agenda Jan. 1.  “What I watched last night was disappointing and
disgusting,” Christie told reporters Jan. 2. “We have been
waiting six times longer than the victims of Katrina, and
there’s no end in sight. New Jersey and New Yorkers are tired of
being treated like second-class citizens. We deserve better.”  Within 10 days after Hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans
and the Gulf Coast in 2005, causing the worst natural disaster
in U.S. history, Congress passed $51.8 billion in relief.  Boehner Criticism  After Christie’s rebuke, Boehner allowed a vote on a first
installment of the aid, for $9.7 billion, on Jan. 4. The measure
passed the House 354-67 and cleared the Senate. Christie said he
didn’t know whether his criticism influenced Boehner’s decision
to schedule that vote, and another on Jan. 15 for the remainder
of the aid.  “In terms of my influence on the party going forward, I
think that’s going to be solely determined by my performance in
office,” Christie said. “If you are performing well and doing
things that people believe are successful and admirable, then
you’re more likely to have an influence on your party and its
direction.”  The governor attributed the delay to infighting within the
Republican House caucus, and said he didn’t criticize party
members for his own political gain.  “These are the type of arguments and soul-searching that
every party goes through when they have two consecutive national
elections that they lose,” Christie said. “Politics is about
winning and losing. When you’re losing you’re unhappy. And when
you’re winning, you’re thrilled. I think we’ve lost two in a
row, and when you’ve lost two in a row everyone is looking to
figure out why.”  Finger Pointing  “Less-productive” politicians, whom he didn’t name, are
looking to cast blame for the losses and that leads to internal
divisions, he said.  Christie, known for a blunt and caustic style, has called
union leaders “political thugs” and other critics a “joke,”
a “jerk,” “numbnuts,” an “idiot” and an “arrogant
S.O.B.”  If Christie wants to become an authoritative unifier of his
party, he must act more statesmanlike, said Paul Light, a
professor at  New York  University’s Robert F. Wagner Graduate
School of Public Service, whose research areas include Congress.  “He’s just too candid,” Light said. “He can say what’s
on his mind any old time, but if he wants to consider a run in
2016 he’s got to start crafting a strategy for reaching out to
at least some number of the right wingers of this party.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  