-- Citigroup Fires Private Bank CIO Cookson Amid Job Reductions
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-01-07T21:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/citigroup-said-to-fire-private-bank-cio-cookson-amid-job-cuts.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  fired Richard Cookson,
chief investment officer of its private bank, as the third-
largest U.S. lender by assets pares costs.  Citigroup will no longer rely on one person to lead the
firm’s investment strategy and will instead seek to “better
leverage the existing in-house expertise across Citi,”
including its markets and banking research teams, the New York-
based firm said in an internal memo, a copy of which was
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Chief Executive OfficerMichael Corbat, 52, said in
December that Citigroup will cut about 11,000 jobs, while also
shutting branches and pulling back from some  emerging markets  as
revenue dries up at global banks. Cookson’s dismissal was part
of the announced job cuts, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  “While we believe it’s critical to retain an independent
investment view and voice, there will no longer be a requirement
for a single individual to formulate the firm’s investment
strategy and asset allocation,” Jane Fraser, CEO of Citigroup’s
private bank, wrote in the memo.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the company,
declined to comment on the dismissal. Cookson, who was based in
 London , declined to comment when reached today by telephone.  Frecentese’s Departure  Cookson joined Citigroup in 2009 after working in London as
head of global asset-allocation research at HSBC Holdings Plc.
He spent almost 10 years at the Economist magazine, where his
roles included Japan correspondent and international finance
editor, according to a profile on Citigroup’s  website .  Frank Frecentese, head of hedge-fund investments at
Citigroup’s private bank, left the firm in December, a person
familiar with the matter said at the time. Frecentese was in
charge of picking funds that the unit’s wealthy clients could
invest in, the person said.  Financial services firms including Bank of America Corp.,
Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG have
announced a total of more than 300,000 job cuts globally since
the start of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  