-- Class-Action Limits Weighed as Court Hears Claim of Abuse
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-01-07T19:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/class-action-limits-weighed-as-court-hears-claim-of-abuse.html
The U.S. Supreme Court weighed new
constraints on class-action lawsuits, reviewing a case from an
 Arkansas  county that companies say is rife with abusive
litigation tactics and plaintiff-friendly local judges.  Hearing arguments today in Washington, the justices
generally voiced support for a  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  unit battling a
suit over homeowners-insurance claims.  The case turns on a tactic used by plaintiffs’ attorneys to
ensure that cases are handled by state judges, rather than in
the federal courts that tend to give businesses a more favorable
reception. Under the disputed approach, lawyers agree not to
seek more than $5 million -- the threshold that sends class-
action suits to federal court under a 2005 U.S. law.  Businesses say those promises mean little because
plaintiffs’ lawyers can still extract much larger settlements
from companies threatened with millions of dollars in litigation
costs. Several justices today also said lawyers might file a
series of related class actions, each worth just under $5
million on behalf of a subset of the potential plaintiffs.  “If so, this is just a loophole that swallows up all of
Congress’s statute,” Justice Stephen Breyer said. “All that is
required is a few extra pieces of paper that will soon become
standardized and a lot of postage stamps.”  The Supreme Court has proven receptive to past accusations
of abuse of the litigation system. In 2011 the court rejected an
effort to sue  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  for discrimination on behalf
of potentially 1 million female workers.  Miller County  The high court case comes from Miller County, in Arkansas’s
southwestern corner. The county is a “magnet jurisdiction,”
where trial lawyers have “dragooned scores of out-of-state
corporations into settling cases for vast sums bearing no
meaningful relationship to their merits,” according to a court
filing by five insurance companies and the Manufactured Housing
Institute, an industry trade group based in Arlington, Virginia.  A group representing Arkansas plaintiffs’ lawyers called
that characterization a “myth.” Since 2000, only 28 class-
action cases have been filed in Miller County, the Arkansas
Trial Lawyers Association says.  “When the thin surface of their accusations is scratched,
a different story is revealed,” the group said.  Travelers’s Standard Fire Insurance unit is accused of
failing to fully reimburse losses by refusing to pay for the
cost of hiring general contractors. The lawyers suing the
company said they would cap the damages they seek, including
attorneys’ fees, at the $5 million threshold.  2005 Law  Standard Fire says that so-called stipulation is barred
under the 2005 law, known as the Class Action Fairness Act. The
law put curbs on group litigation, largely by funneling more
cases into federal court.  Standard Fire’s lawyer,  Theodore Boutrous , said plaintiffs’
lawyers were “slicing and dicing the classes up into pieces in
order to thwart jurisdiction.”  Lawyers pressing the suit say Congress didn’t preclude
plaintiffs’ attorneys from limiting the scope of their cases in
order to stay in state court. The lead plaintiff in the case is
Greg Knowles, whose home was damaged in a 2010 hailstorm.  Congress intended to leave “legal judgments and
strategies” in the hands of the plaintiffs, said David
Frederick, Knowles’s Supreme Court lawyer.  ‘Jerry-Rigged’  Frederick drew his strongest support today from Justice
Elena Kagan, who repeatedly said Congress didn’t seek to bar
stipulations that limit damages. She said business advocates
were seeking a “jerry-rigged solution to get at a problem
Congress in fact did not address.”  Chief Justice John Roberts asked Frederick whether lawyers
could file two $4 million suits, one on behalf of people whose
names start with letters from A through K, and a second one for
those from L to Z. He said Frederick’s position would give
plaintiffs “extraordinary leverage.”  At the same time, Roberts said Boutrous’s stance put
defense lawyers in an unusual spot.  “You’re at the position of arguing that, you know, they
are seeking less than $5 million, but we’re responsible for a
lot more damage than that,” Roberts said.  The case, which the court will decide by June, is Standard
Fire v. Knowles, 11-1450.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  