-- Copper Falls as Report May Show Weaker German Factory Orders
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-01-07T10:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/copper-falls-as-report-may-show-weaker-german-factory-orders.html
Copper fell for a third session in
 London  before a report that may show German factory orders slid
for a third month in four, fanning concern about the euro-zone
crisis debt threatening to choke demand.  The Economy Ministry in Berlin may say tomorrow orders
dropped 1.4 percent in November, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Germany  is the world’s third-biggest
consumer of copper, which also declined today as the dollar
strengthened against the euro, reducing the appeal of
commodities as alternative investment.  “If Germany stumbles, that means the rest of  Europe  will
really be struggling,”  David Wilson , an analyst at Citigroup
Inc. in London, said by phone. “This will be supportive for the
dollar versus the euro.”  Copper for delivery in three months retreated 0.5 percent
to $8,041 a metric ton by 10:20 a.m. on the London Metal
Exchange. Futures for delivery in March fell 0.9 percent to
$3.662 a pound on the Comex in  New York .  Money managers increased their net-long positions, or
wagers on rising copper prices, to 15,924 Comex futures and
options contracts as of Dec. 31 from 14,988 a week earlier,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The
number of LME copper futures outstanding reached the lowest
level in almost four months on Dec. 28.  “Activity has been fairly light,” Wilson said. “We
haven’t seen very much consumer activity at all. We did actually
see some producers selling copper last week. That suggested
things were going to run out of steam.”  Copper  stockpiles  monitored by the LME fell 0.3 percent to
319,400 tons, according to daily exchange figures. Inventories
tracked by the Shanghai Futures Exchange reached an eight-month
high of 206,458 tons, data showed last week.  Orders to withdraw copper from LME warehouses dropped 1.8
percent to 70,275 tons.  Aluminum, zinc, lead and nickel slid in London. Tin rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  