-- Credit Suisse High-Yield Co-Head Oplinger Said to Leave
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e ,   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-01-07T19:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/credit-suisse-high-yield-sales-head-oplinger-said-to-leav.html
Steve Oplinger, co-head of U.S. high-
yield sales for  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , left Switzerland’s
second-biggest bank amid a disagreement over his group’s
compensation, two people briefed on the matter said.  Oplinger departed today following a dispute with top
management over his team’s alloted bonus pool, according to the
people, who asked not to be identified because the departure
wasn’t made public. Jason Safriet, his co-head, will run the
group, according to another person. Oplinger declined to comment
when reached by phone. Drew Benson, a spokesman for the Zurich-
based bank, declined to comment on Oplinger’s departure.  Credit Suisse has shrunk the amount of capital put toward
credit trading as it seeks to improve returns. Risk-weighted
assets in that business were $18 billion as of Sept. 30, down 22
percent from a year earlier. Still, the firm produced $1.27
billion in revenue from credit trading in the first nine months
of 2012, almost double that of a year earlier.  Credit Suisse hasn’t publicly announced the size or
composition of its 2012 bonus pool. The lender cut its 2011 pool
by 41 percent and awarded a portion of pay for more than 6,000
senior bankers in bonds backed by derivatives that will pay out
over several years.  Oplinger, a managing director at Credit Suisse, earlier
worked at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp.,
according to  records  with the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. That firm was acquired by Credit Suisse in 2000.
Oplinger graduated from Lafayette College in Easton,
 Pennsylvania , where he played football, according to the
school’s  athletics website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  