-- Credit Suisse Loses Bid to Dismiss Elbit’s $16 Million Suit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-07T19:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/credit-suisse-loses-bid-to-dismiss-elbit-s-16-million-suit-1-.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  lost a bid to
dismiss a lawsuit filed by  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT) , after a federal
judge in New York said the Israeli defense contractor provided
sufficient information to claim the bank aided and abetted the
crimes of former brokers  Julian Tzolov  and  Eric Butler .  Both men were convicted of fraudulently selling subprime
securities to corporate clients that cost investors more than
$1.1 billion in losses. Prosecutors said the two men falsely
told clients the products were backed by federally guaranteed
student loans and were a safe alternative to bank deposits or
money market funds.  Elbit, Israel’s biggest non-government developer of defense
technology, filed suit in U.S. District Court in Manhattan in
2010. Elbit seeks to hold Credit Suisse liable for the conduct
of the two brokers, alleging that the bank’s role in the
aftermath “was to keep the fraudulent scheme hidden from the
public, the federal authorities and from the victims themselves,
for as long as possible.”  “Elbit has adequately alleged that Credit Suisse Group
aided and abetted common law fraud,” U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein  said today in a ruling. “Elbit has adequately alleged
that Credit Suisse Group may be held liable as an aider and
abettor of Credit Suisse Securities,” said the judge.  False Information  Butler was convicted after a trial in federal court in
Brooklyn, New York, in 2009 while Tzolov, his partner, pleaded
guilty and testified against him at trial. Both men were
sentenced to serve five years in prison.  Jack Grone, a spokesman for Zurich-based Credit Suisse,
declined to comment on the ruling.  The civil case is Elbit Systems Ltd. v. Credit Suisse
Group, 10-CV-10, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-
370, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  