-- Cubist Pharmaceuticals Deal Seen Sales Ticket: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-01-08T15:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/cubist-pharmaceuticals-deal-seen-sales-ticket-real-m-a.html
Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST) ’s best
hope for achieving a goal of more than doubling revenue is to
pursue its biggest acquisition.  Cubist, the maker of products used in hospitals to treat
bacterial infections, is aiming to reach $2 billion in annual
revenue by 2017. Analysts are  projecting  that the Lexington,
Massachusetts-based company will fall short of the target by
about 23 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At
the same time, the drug accounting for most of its  sales  faces
generic competition as soon as 2018, Royal Bank of Canada said.  The $2.8 billion company, with at least three new therapies
in the pipeline, still will need to use its $897 million in cash
to buy a drugmaker such as  Optimer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OPTR)  or
 Cadence Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CADX) , said Robert W. Baird & Co. A
takeover of either would top Cubist’s largest deals for Calixa
Therapeutics Inc. and Adolor Corp., data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Cantor Fitzgerald LP says it also could look to smaller
targets Trius Therapeutics Inc. or  Cempra Inc. (CEMP)  to add to its
antibiotics portfolio.  Even with Cubist’s products in development, “it still
leaves a gap,” Adnan Butt, a San Francisco-based analyst for
RBC, said in a telephone interview. “That gap will need to be
filled by both internal and external products. Its balance sheet
is decent enough. It has a lot of firepower.”  Deal Need  Cubist Chief Executive Officer Michael Bonney, responding
to questions about the company’s need to make an acquisition,
indicated yesterday that he would consider doing a deal to
buttress the drugmaker’s lineup and boost sales.  “We can’t take the known world and get to $2 billion.
There’s a gap,” Bonney said yesterday in an interview at the
JPMorgan Chase & Co. health-care conference in  San Francisco .
“We will be using the balance sheet to fill that gap.”  Bonney said future deals would likely seek products in the
hospital and acute-care market. He declined to comment on
specific targets.  Cubist told investors last June that it expects to reach $2
billion in annual revenue, earn $700 million in profit and have
four products in late-stage clinical trials by the end of 2017.  The company announced preliminary 2012 sales yesterday of
about $926 million, 93 percent of which came from the antibiotic
Cubicin. The drug targets methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus, the superbug better known as MRSA, which can cause life-
threatening skin  infections , typically acquired in hospitals.
Patents protecting Cubicin are set to expire from 2016 to 2028.  Adolor Purchase  Cubist gained CXA-201, an antibiotic in late-stage clinical
trials, after it agreed to buy Calixa Therapeutics in 2009 for
$92.5 million in cash, plus potential milestone payments of as
much as $310 million.  The company added Entereg, a therapy to speed up recovery
after bowel-resection surgery, after it agreed to buy Adolor in
2011 for about $190 million, or as much as $415 million
including the company’s net cash and a contingent payment right
based on drug approvals and commercialization. Entereg sales
were $40.2 million last year.  Cubist’s current product  lineup  won’t generate enough
revenue to meet its sales goal, based on analysts’  projections 
that the company will reach only $1.54 billion by the end of
2017.  Irina Rivkind, a New York-based analyst with  Cantor
Fitzgerald , estimates that about $700 million, or 35 percent of
the sales goal will need to come from acquisitions. She projects
Cubicin and Entereg together will generate just $1.1 billion by
2017 and that another $200 million will come from its products
that are still in development.  Logical Targets  “Cubist needs to continue growing its base business,
further develop its pipeline, but more importantly, it needs to
make an acquisition,” Rivkind said in an e-mail. “Management
has readily admitted that it will need to pursue M&A.”  Optimer and Cadence are among the most logical targets for
Cubist, Brian Skorney, a New York-based analyst for Baird, wrote
in a note to clients last week.  “We expect the company to acquire additional development-
stage or early commercial-stage products that complement the
hospital-based focus,” he wrote. “Depending on valuation, we
see a number of options that could make sense.”  Optimer makes Dificid, an antibiotic that won approval in
2011 to treat a deadly bacterium linked to intestinal infections
often caught in hospitals. The $497 million company and Cubist
jointly market the drug to U.S. health-care providers under an
agreement that expires this year.  Relative Value  Shares of San Diego-based Optimer traded yesterday for 5
times this year’s estimated sales, less than half the median
multiple among U.S. specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies larger than $100 million, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Optimer’s  revenue  is projected by analysts to surge 114
percent to $310 million by the end of 2017 from the level in
2011, while sales at Cadence may gain more than 17-fold to $302
million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cadence, also based in  San Diego , makes Ofirmev, an
injectable version of the pain medicine acetaminophen -- known
as the brand name Tylenol -- that was approved by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration in 2010. Shares of the $448 million
company have gained 31 percent in the last year as Ofirmev  sales 
began to ramp up.  Representatives for Optimer and Cadence didn’t return phone
calls or e-mails seeking comment.  Today, Optimer shares gained 1.4 percent to $10.58 at 9:55
a.m. in  New York , while Cadence rose 0.2 percent to $5.25.  Trius, Cempra  Cubist, because of its interest in the hospital market,
could also look to buy antibiotics makers  Trius (TSRX)  and Cempra, as
well as  Pacira  Pharmaceuticals Inc., another maker of a pain
remedy, said Cantor Fitzgerald’s Rivkind. Pacira has a market
capitalization of $584 million, while Trius and Cempra are
valued at $206 million and $157 million, respectively.  Trius may report sales of $216 million in 2017, more than
five times the level in 2011, the latest fiscal year that it has
reported, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Cempra, which
doesn’t yet generate revenue, may have sales of $146 million in
2017, while Pacira may boost revenue to $533 million from $15.7
million in 2011, the data show.  Representatives for San Diego-based Trius and Chapel Hill,
North Carolina-based Cempra declined to comment on whether the
companies are for sale or have been approached by Cubist. Susan
Heins, a spokeswoman for Parsippany, New Jersey-based Pacira
from the firm Pure Communications Inc., said no one at the
company was available to comment.  Today, Trius shares were unchanged at $5.23 at 9:55 a.m. in
New York, while Cempra fell 1.3 percent to $6.21. Pacira rose
1.3 percent to $18.17.  Hospital-Focused  “Something that’s hospital-focused is synergistic with
Cubist’s franchise,” RBC’s Butt said. “That’s their targeted
market and they know that market well. Most of their pipeline is
focused on antibiotics. Those are their sweet spots.”  Cubist’s  balance sheet  makes it well-equipped to do a deal,
he said. Cubist has $897 million in cash and short-term
investments, with just $397 million in debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “That’s a lot of firepower for them,” Butt said. “The
company’s in a pretty good spot if they need to raise capital.
That said, I expect them to be both disciplined and
opportunistic.”  One challenge for Cubist is that larger pharmaceutical
companies with deeper pockets are also looking for targets to
fill holes left by expiring patents on what were once
blockbuster drugs. Henry Gosebruch, managing director of health-
care mergers and acquisitions at JPMorgan, said that will lead
to more “big pharma M&A activity in 2013.”  Pfizer Inc.’s Lipitor,  Eli Lilly  & Co.’s Zyprexa and
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s Plavix are among drugs that lost
patent exclusivity in recent years.  Cash Hoard  Pfizer has almost $23 billion in cash and short-term
investments, while Eli Lilly has $6.9 billion and Bristol-Myers
has $2.9 billion, the data show.  “It could be a challenge for Cubist to find companies to
acquire because you have big pharma also looking,” Alan Carr, a
New York-based analyst with Needham & Co., said in a phone
interview. “Cubist doesn’t have the same resources.”  Still, Cubist will probably need to do a deal to help it
achieve its sales and profit goals because its current pipeline
may not be enough, he said.  “It’s a little close in terms of hitting $2 billion,”
Carr said. “They do have an active internal effort, but those
won’t make it to market by 2017. Certainly bringing in something
else would help them reach that mark.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  