-- Defense Budget Cuts of $45 Billion Seen by Pentagon
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-07T21:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/defense-budget-cuts-of-45-billion-seen-by-pentagon.html
The Pentagon faces a reduction of as
much as $45 billion this fiscal year if automatic spending cuts
take effect March 1, its comptroller said.  That level would be 27 percent less than the $62 billion in
reductions the Pentagon would have confronted if the automatic
cuts known as sequestration had begun last week as scheduled,
 Robert Hale  told an audience at the Brookings Institution in
 Washington  today.  President  Barack Obama  signed a last-minute budget deal on
Jan. 2 that averted tax increases for most U.S. workers and
delayed for two months the across-the-board spending cuts in
defense and other programs. Hale said today that the legislation
also eased some terms of the defense cuts for the fiscal year
ending Sept. 30.  “These legal changes are quite complex, but it looks like
about $45 billion,” Hale said of the potential cuts, adding
that analysts are continuing to study the legislation. “They
reduced the size of the sequestration in the negotiations.”  About $149 billion in military personnel funds for fiscal
2013 are exempt from the automatic cuts, shifting the spending
reductions to civilian employees, contractors, operations and
maintenance costs and weapons programs.  Hale said the reductions still would result in 9 percent
across-the-board cuts in procurement and research that could
include such major programs as  Lockheed Martin Corp.’s (LMT)   F-35
fighter jet. Reductions also would affect operations and
maintenance.  “Inevitably there will be some delay” in presenting the
Pentagon’s fiscal 2014 budget that was scheduled to be released
Feb. 4, he said. “Normally we would be transmitting data” to
the White House Office of Management and Budget now “and we are
not,” Hale said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  