-- Dell Says Mergers Head Johnson Has Departed for Blackstone
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-01-07T22:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/dell-says-mergers-head-dave-johnson-has-departed-for-blackstone.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  said Dave Johnson, who
handled mergers and acquisitions, has departed to take a senior
position at private-equity firm  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   Johnson’s responsibilities will be handled by Chris Kleiman, who will be in charge of corporate development, and
Prakash Jothee, who will run the corporate strategy team, Round
Rock, Texas-based Dell said in a statement. Both executives will
report to Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden.  Dell hired Johnson from International Business Machines
Corp. in 2009, triggering a  lawsuit  by IBM seeking to block his
employment at Dell because it said he violated a noncompetition
agreement. Dell prevailed in the suit, and Johnson went on to
accelerate Dell’s deal-making.  On his watch, Dell spent about $10 billion on more than 20
 acquisitions ,  David Frink , a spokesman, said in the statement.
To diversify beyond its roots as a personal-computer supplier,
Dell has been snapping up companies including Quest Software in
data-center management, Force10 Networks in computer networking
and Compellent Technologies in storage.  The company had $14.2 billion in cash and investments at
the end of the fiscal third quarter, Dell said in November. At
the company’s DellWorld conference in Austin, Texas, last month,
Chief Executive Officer and founder  Michael Dell  said the
company has spent more than $12.7 billion on 18 acquisitions
since 2009, and will focus on small and medium-size deals to add
tools that complement its PCs and servers.  Johnson’s departure was previously reported by the website
IT Voir, and by Reuters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  