-- Dish Adding Sling Technology to Devices in Mobile Push
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-01-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/dish-network-turns-to-sling-technology-for-tv-everywhere-push.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest satellite-TV provider, said its new Hopper set-top box
will come pre-installed with the Sling Media system, letting
customers watch programming live on a range of mobile devices.  Dish is relying on technology it acquired in 2007 that
provides viewers with a “TV Everywhere” experience, the
company said yesterday. The strategy differs from the approach
taken by Dish’s competitors, including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , DirecTV
and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , which have pieced together their
mobile offerings by forging contracts with programmers one at a
time.  The updated set-top box, unveiled yesterday at the  Consumer
Electronics Show  in Las Vegas, will be standard equipment for
new Dish customers. It’s the first product from any major pay-TV
provider that gives users the built-in option to watch their
entire channel lineup’s live programming on personal computers,
smartphones and tablets. For almost eight years, Sling Media has
offered a stand-alone box that lets users watch television on
Internet-connected devices.  “Everybody says, ‘TV Everywhere,’ but Sling basically
started it,” Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton said in an
interview. “This is actually TV everywhere and anywhere, in
your home and out of your home.”  The Sling-enhanced Hopper will be available at the end of
January and be free for customers who sign two-year contracts
for certain channel packages. Users will need to download a
free Dish Anywhere application on their mobile devices and
enter an authorized user name and password to get mobile
access to their TV lineup. Dish Anywhere is available for Apple
Inc. and Google Inc. Android devices.  Programming Contracts  Cable companies and  DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-TV
operator, have spent years agreeing to individual contracts with
programming companies such as  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and
Comcast’s  NBC Universal  to gain online rights to programming.
The result has been a mishmash of on-demand and live access to
certain channels and not others. In some cases, consumers have
to pay extra to get the programming on a mobile device.  The Sling approach lets Dish bypass that process, said
Vivek Khemka, Dish’s president of  product management .  “This is very different than anyone else in the pay-TV
industry,” he said. “Their way, you’re paying twice for your
own content.”  The risk is that cable and broadcast networks will sue the
company to be paid for the mobile rights to their programs. Dish
is prepared for a legal fight, Clayton said.  Lawsuits ‘OK’  “We’re trying to be at the forefront of existing
technology,” Clayton said. “If that means some lawsuits, OK.”  Dish acquired Sling Media Inc. more than five years ago for
about $380 million. The unit now operates as a division of
 EchoStar Corp. (SATS) , the set-top box manufacturing arm that separated
from Dish in 2008. Billionaire  Charlie Ergen , who founded Dish,
is the chairman of both companies.  Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado, is preparing a
“massive advertising campaign” that will show customers the
new Hopper’s mobile capabilities, Clayton said.  The set-top box will allow users to transfer recorded shows
directly to tablet computers for later viewing in any
environment -- with or without a wireless signal. The feature is
ideal for airplane viewing, which Clayton said would be
illustrated through TV commercials featuring the “Boston
Guys,” the Dish pitchmen who showcased the Hopper, or  “The
Hawpah,”  in commercials last year.  “We’ve bet the ranch on the Hopper, and this is the
extension,” Clayton said. “There will be an evolution of
Hopper capabilities and characteristics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  