-- Do Credit Ratings Matter? We Will Soon Find Out
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-01-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/do-credit-ratings-matter-we-will-soon-find-out.html
Taro Aso, 72, sure is a busy man.
While most Japanese of his vintage are happily ensconced in
retirement, Aso has three new jobs: deputy prime minister,
finance minister and minister for financial services.  This trifecta of responsibilities means Aso has been
deputized to end deflation and weaken the yen once and for all.
As he endeavors to do what no one has done before, Aso also will
conduct an experiment of great interest to policy makers and
investors: testing whether credit ratings matter.  Aso clearly has the complete trust of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who was elected last month. In the additional guise as
 Japan ’s economic czar, Aso even went on the road last week to
Myanmar in a bid to blunt China’s ambitions for regional
domination.  What Abe and Aso share is a love of the idea of Japanese
primacy in Asia and the kind of Keynesianism on steroids that
left the country with the biggest ratio of debt-to-gross-
domestic-product of any developed nation. What they don’t talk
about much is how their plans to reopen the money spigot may run
afoul of Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings.  The  Liberal Democratic Party  ruled Japan for a half-century
before losing power in 2009. To show how much it changed after
three years in the minority, Abe assembled a “crisis
breakthrough Cabinet” to end Japan’s malaise. Yet the LDP is
better at devising reformist mantras than implementing them. Did
any of its earlier stimulus packages make Japan more
competitive, create the next Apple Inc., stop  China (SHCOMP) ’s economy
from becoming bigger or keep South Korea from turning into
Asia’s innovation leader?  Magic Formula  Now Abe and Aso say the people should trust the new-and-
improved LDP. They insist their two-point plan to create an
aggressive inflation target and to demand that the central bank
buy unlimited blocks of government bonds is a magic formula for
renewed prosperity.  The motivation is clear enough. Japan has been trying to
ward off deflation for a decade and a half. Why not just throw
all the money Japan can find at the problem, what economists
call the “nuclear option”? Wouldn’t the end justify the
desperate means? Perhaps, but there’s a party to this enterprise
that officials in  Tokyo  aren’t considering: the arbiters of
perceptions that affect Japan’s fiscal health.  There’s a school of thought that the odd sovereign
downgrade doesn’t matter. Just ask Timothy Geithner, the
Treasury secretary on whose watch the U.S. lost its AAA rating.
All S&P did was unleash a bull market in U.S. debt. Investors
can’t get enough of the stuff, driving yields to historic lows
and shaming S&P’s number crunchers.  It’s an open question whether a post-downgrade Japan would
maintain its sub-1 percent bond yields and add to the raters’
humiliation. In 2002, Japan practically declared war on credit-
rating companies for downgrading it below Botswana. Its
investigation of their evaluation methods made global headlines.  Japan’s debt market is hardly conventional; more than 90
percent of it is held domestically, so ratings don’t matter that
much. Yet Japan doesn’t print the reserve currency, as the U.S.
does. Nor are its demographics as virtuous as America’s. Japan
is the fastest-aging and least-fertile member of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Abe and Aso are about to test the tolerance for downgrades.
Credit analysts won’t sit by as they push Japan’s debt-to-GDP
ratio toward 250 percent and beyond when  Greece , at 171 percent,
is below investment grade. They also won’t like the absence of
new thinking coming from the LDP. A fresh explosion of stimulus
measures must be accompanied by strategies to increase their
potency.  Multiplier Effect  Strong accountability is needed to avoid the white-elephant
public-works projects of the past. If there is a new burst of
infrastructure spending, it should be concentrated in the
earthquake-devastated Tohoku region. Also, make it unattractive,
via new taxes, for banks to hoard government bonds. Give them
incentives to lend, thereby promoting monetary policy’s
multiplier effect. Otherwise, Japan will just throw away another
trillion dollars, or more.  Aso is a former prime minister and LDP stalwart, and
nothing he has said or done suggests he’s approaching his new
job with a fresh lens or toolkit. The same goes for Abe, whose
2006-2007 tenure as premier was anything but distinguished.  Abe is no more visionary in foreign policy. An unreflective
nationalist, he has wasted no time irking Japan’s  neighbors . He
wants to revisit an apology Japan made in the 1990s for its
World War II enslavement of women, mainly Korean, in army
brothels. He wants to rewrite Japan’s pacifist postwar
constitution to confront an ascendant  China , to which S&P
assigns the same AA- rating it does to Japan. Abe is sure to
heighten tensions over a group of disputed islands Tokyo calls
Senkaku and Beijing calls Diaoyu. What’s the point of driving
down the yen if two of your biggest customers boycott your
goods?  The challenge is for a party known more for cronyism and
gridlock than enlightened policies to reinvent a system it
created. Relying on stimulus alone will hurt Japan’s
creditworthiness given the context of its fiscal morass. If Abe
is hopping mad now that China has surpassed Japan, imagine how
angry he will be when China’s credit rating is significantly
higher than Japan’s.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  