-- Does Chuck Hagel Have a ‘Jewish Problem’?
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-01-07T20:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/does-chuck-hagel-really-have-a-jewish-problem-.html
As if life in  Washington  wasn’t
dispiriting enough, we must now get ready for a bruising fight
over whether former Senator Chuck Hagel, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee as the new secretary of defense, has a ‘Jewish
problem.’  Hagel’s confirmation by the Senate isn’t a sure thing in
any case -- gay-rights activists are unhappy with his more
archaic  views  (conveniently renounced as soon as his name was
floated) on matters of sexual orientation, and defense hawks
think that Hagel, a Vietnam veteran, is allergic to the
projection of American force and overeager to gut the Pentagon’s
budget.  But Hagel’s statements about Jews, Israel and the looming
confrontation with  Iran  may take up a good deal of bandwidth.
So: Is Hagel anti-Semitic?  The short answer is no. The long answer is also no. Which
is not to say that Hagel will soon win the American Jewish
Committee’s Man of the Year award. He takes a tougher line on
certain Israeli government policies, and a softer line on Iran,
than most mainstream American politicians, but some of his views
are shared by many of Israel’s left-of-center politicians and
ex-military chiefs.  ‘Jewish Lobby’  The anti-Semitism charge was recently advanced by Bret Stephens in the Wall Street Journal,  who wrote  that Hagel’s use
of the term “Jewish lobby” -- in a conversation with  Aaron David Miller , the former Middle East negotiator who doesn’t hide
either his Jewishness or his support for Israel -- had an
“olfactory element” to it. Hagel’s statement that “the Jewish
lobby intimidates a lot of people” on  Capitol Hill  was
particularly ripe, Stephens said.  “No lesser authorities on the subject than John Mearsheimer
and Stephen Walt, authors of ‘The Israel Lobby,’ have insisted
the term Jewish lobby is ‘inaccurate and misleading, both
because the [Israel] lobby includes non-Jews like Christian
Zionists and because many Jewish Americans do not support the
hard-line policies favored by its most powerful elements,’”
Stephens wrote.  The term “Jewish lobby” is unpleasant and imprecise,
certainly, but Hagel’s comment about the power of this alleged
lobby strikes me, after years of listening to legislators whine
about the awfulness of pressure groups generally, as
inoffensive, if dumb.  On the other hand, Hagel, in his two terms in the Senate,
voted to support Israel in ways that matter to actual Israelis,
including to its defense officials. He supported a close
relationship between the U.S. military and the  Israel Defense
Forces , and he regularly voted to grant Israel generous aid
packages. If he has a record of animus toward the Jewish state
or prejudice toward Jews, I’m not seeing it.  In fact, one of the more distressing features of the
nomination is not Hagel himself, but some of the supporters he’s
been accruing, people who believe that Hagel shares their
loathing of a strong American relationship with Israel. These
include people who do express animus toward Israel and toward
the American Jews who support Israel.  The aforementioned Walt, who has  enthusiastically praised 
Hagel on his blog, is an example. In his 2007 book with
Mearsheimer, Walt blamed American Jewish organizations for
dragging the U.S. to war in  Iraq , and argued that the pro- Israel 
lobby is causally related to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. In
the duo’s feverish telling, the lobby’s stranglehold over
Congress forced the U.S. into an alliance with Israel, which
provoked previously pacific Muslim fundamentalist terrorists to
commit mass murder.  There is nothing in Hagel’s record to suggest that he
scapegoats Jews and Israel in the Walt manner -- Hagel has
 argued , in fact, that the U.S. invasion of Iraq was motivated by
oil -- and there is nothing in his record to suggest he will try
to persuade Obama to separate the U.S. from Israel in any
meaningful way.  Common Views  The Hagel nomination doesn’t represent nearly so drastic a
shift in Obama’s Middle East policy as some people might believe
(or hope), especially when you consider the views of Obama’s
first secretary of defense,  Robert Gates .  Gates, who emerged from the same non-interventionist or
“realist” wing of the  Republican Party  as Hagel, took two
positions on Israel that seemed superficially contradictory. The
first was to complain, sometimes bitterly, about what he saw as
Israel’s self-destructive policies, including its commitment to
expanding West Bank settlements. The second was to strengthen
the Pentagon’s relationship with Israel’s military.  Gates didn’t see the contradiction: He believed that Israel
should be a safe and flourishing homeland for the Jewish people,
and he also believed that its current prime minister,  Benjamin Netanyahu , wasn’t grateful for American support and was
instituting policies that would ultimately make Israel more
difficult to secure as a Jewish democracy.  Hagel, it seems, is on the same page. As is -- and this is
the most salient point -- the president, who has consistently
made similar arguments.  Hagel has differed from the president on one important
issue: Iran. Obama has taken a tougher line than Hagel on
sanctions and on the need to consider military force to stop
 Iran’s nuclear program . A widespread assumption is that, in
nominating Hagel, Obama is moving closer to his position. But
it’s far more likely, given Obama’s stated commitment to keeping
nuclear weapons out of Iranian hands, that Hagel’s position has
moved closer to the president’s.  We’ll have to wait for Hagel’s confirmation hearing to
learn his exact thinking on Iran, and we can only hope that this
issue is given more prominence than his graceless use of the
term “Jewish lobby.”  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 