-- The 14th Amendment is Obama's Best Option on Debt Ceiling
-- B y   D e b o r a h   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-01-07T19:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/the-14th-amendment-is-obama-s-best-option-on-debt-ceiling.html
Washington 's penchant for high-stakes drama is now manifesting itself in
another fight over the debt limit, with some top Democrats  suggesting  that
President  Barack Obama  should invoke the 14 th  Amendment and raise the
$16.4 trillion debt ceiling unilaterally. The White House continues to throw  cold water  on the idea, saying it doesn't
believe the U.S. Constitution gives it authority to bypass Congress when it
comes to issuing debt. The reality is that the White House will be forced to invoke the
14 th  Amendment if a debt ceiling increase isn't agreed to next month.
And it can do this without deploying the nuclear option of issuing new debt
absent congressional authorization. First, the facts: The U.S.  reached  its $16.4 trillion legal borrowing limit
on Dec. 31, prompting the U.S. Treasury Department to begin using so-called
 extraordinary measures  to finance the government and continue making interest
payments. To free up money, Treasury can  shift  government-employee retirement
funds out of  Treasury securities  and into idle cash, withhold year-end interest
payments to government trust funds and employ other accounting maneuvers. Those
efforts, however, will be exhausted by the end of February,  according  to the
 Congressional Budget Office . Because the U.S. runs a  budget deficit , it must borrow money to fund the
government, but the authority to borrow more than the current $16.4 trillion
limit rests with Congress. Without an increase, the U.S. will be unable to fund
its obligations, such as  Social Security  payments, government salaries, interest
on the debt and other expenses. Going down this rabbit hole would lead to a wave
of government defaults, forcing the U.S. to violate the full faith and credit
pledge it made to investors. The economic toll from such an outcome would make
the last recession look like a bubble. How will the U.S. avoid this scenario? Obama will face a stark choice, one
that will invariably lead him to invoke Section 4 of the 14 th 
Amendment. The Reconstruction-era  provision  was passed to prevent political
wrangling over the debt after the Civil War as some feared Southerners returning
to Congress would use the public debt to extract political concessions (sound
familiar?). Put simply, the provision requires the president not to put the validity of
the public debt into question. (The section's language states: "the validity of
the public debt of the  United States  … shall not be questioned.") That's
prompted some Democrats like California Representative  Nancy Pelosi , Illinois
Senator  Richard Durbin  and former President  Bill Clinton  to  recommend  that the
White House invoke the amendment to unilaterally increase the debt limit without
Congress' consent. The White House needn't go that far. As Yale University Law School professor
 Jack Balkin  has  pointed  out in numerous blog posts, Section 4 means the
president is constitutionally obligated to make sure interest payments on the
debt continue and that bondholders continue to get paid. Failure to do so would
violate the constitution, because it would call into question the validity of
U.S. debt. The U.S. could divert as much cash as necessary to make good on its debts and
forgo other payments, like Social Security, Medicare and government funding.
This, of course, would lead to a partial -- and, absent a debt ceiling increase,
a complete -- government shutdown. Polls consistently show most Americans would blame Republicans for a
shutdown, which is why  Newt Gingrich  -- architect of the 1996 government
shutdown -- recently  called  a debt-ceiling showdown a "dead loser" for the
party. Obama will largely be able to absolve himself of liability, saying the
U.S. Constitution gave him no choice but to make good on interest payments and
that the Republicans' refusal to pay for spending they themselves authorized has
triggered an economic tsunami. The White House should make this course of action crystal clear to the
 Republican Party , if for no other reason than to hasten a deal. The 2011 debt-
ceiling shenanigans will ultimately raise U.S.  borrowing  costs by $18.9 billion
over the next decade. Obama has said he won't negotiate over the debt ceiling,
meaning he won't allow Republicans to use the limit as a cudgel to force steep
spending cuts. Yet it's hard to see how the White House can avoid another debt-
limit showdown without relying on the 14 th  Amendment. (My colleague
Josh Barro has  championed  reliance on a trillion-dollar coin to similar effect,
but let's face it: It ain't gonna happen.) Unfortunately, the administration doesn't appear ready -- or willing -- to
play hardball. White House press secretary  Jay Carney  has swatted down the idea
of using the 14 th  Amendment to raise the debt ceiling, saying "this
administration does not believe that the 14 th  Amendment gives the
president the power to ignore the debt ceiling -- period." And outgoing Treasury
Secretary  Tim Geithner  has  said  the Treasury doesn't have authority to
prioritize payments; it can't pick and choose which bills to pay. All of this shows why, as Bloomberg View editors have  written , more control
over the debt ceiling should be given to the president. After all, raising the
debt limit is the means by which the U.S. borrows money to pay for existing
commitments that Congress itself has already authorized. Lucky for the White
House, the Constitution leaves Obama no choice: The president must make good on
 U.S. debt . That, in turn, will require invoking the 14th Amendment. ( Deborah Solomon  is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board.  Follow 
her on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .  