-- Eletrobras Leads Brazil Utilities Rout on Depleted Reservoirs
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-01-07T19:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/eletrobras-leads-brazil-utilities-rout-on-depleted-reservoirs.html
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  led
a plunge among  Brazilian power companies  on concern a spell of
dry weather in parts of the country has drained hydropower
reservoirs to the point where energy rationing may be needed.  Eletrobras, as  Brazil ’s  third-biggest  electric utility by
market value is known, fell 4.6 percent, the biggest drop in six
weeks on a closing basis.  AES Tiete SA (GETI3) , the fifth-biggest, slid
3.9 percent, while Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA tumbled 4.2
percent.  Rainfall in northeastern Brazil that was 50 percent below
normal in December has dropped reservoirs below the level
considered safe by the government for operating dams. Reservoirs
in the region were 32 percent full on average last month, less
than the 34 percent minimum, according to data on the  national
power grid operator’s website .  “If an energy rationing really happens, utilities would
generate less power and consequently have smaller revenue,”
Henrique Kleine, an analyst at the brokerage firm Magliano SA in
Sao Paulo, said by telephone.  The MSCI Brazil Utilities Index slid 2.2 percent. Cia.
Energetica de  Minas Gerais , Brazil’s second-biggest electric
utility by market value, fell to its lowest in a year.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  asked power utilities to
attend an emergency meeting on Jan. 9 to discuss the risk that
the country’s reservoirs might fall so low that energy rationing
is needed, the newspaper Folha de S.Paulo reported today, citing
unidentified government officials.  Energy Rationing  A presidential press officer who asked not to be identified
in accord with internal policy said by phone from Brasilia that
Rousseff is on vacation and there is no such meeting on her
schedule.  The Ministry of Mines and Energy said in a  statement  today
on its website that Minister Edison Lobao will hold a monthly
meeting with government officials and regulators on Jan. 9.
Utility representatives may also attend, according to the
statement, which didn’t mention Rousseff.  Any energy-rationing plan “would be an extra problem for
these companies, who are already facing declining income because
of recent measures taken by the government to cut rates,” said
Kleine at Magliano.  Rousseff announced on Sept. 11 a plan to reduce power costs
by as much as 28 percent to aid households and manufacturers to
boost economic growth. Changes in contracts will be negotiated
with utilities as concessions on government-owned hydroelectric
plants which expire between 2015 and 2017 are renewed, she said.  Preferred shares in Eletrobras, based in  Rio de Janeiro ,
fell to 10.71 reais at 4:42 p.m. in  Sao Paulo , the biggest
decline on the MSCI Brazil Utilities Index.  AES Tiete dropped to 21.53 reais, and Eletropaulo tumbled
to 15.36 reais. Both companies are based in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  