-- Emirates Wants to Extend Qantas Pact for Pacific Routes
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-01-08T05:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/emirates-wants-to-extend-qantas-pact-for-pacific-routes.html
Emirates, the airline with the most
international traffic, said it wants to extend its alliance with
 Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  across the Pacific Ocean, allowing
passengers to fly around the world on Airbus SAS A380s.  The carriers have scope to link Qantas’s A380 flights into
 Los Angeles  with routes the Gulf carrier seeks to operate from
its Dubai hub, Emirates President  Tim Clark  said in a phone
interview. The partnership won provisional approval from
 Australia ’s antitrust regulator last month.  “If the timing is right and the two aircraft meet, with
Qantas and Emirates you could go around the world with A380s,”
he said yesterday. “I’m sure we could do trans-Pacific business
on Qantas metal as part of this overall deal.”  Emirates would push for the alliance’s extension into
trans-Pacific routes only if Qantas’s Chief Executive Officer
Alan Joyce and his management back the idea, Clark said. Shares
of the Sydney-based airline have risen 39 percent since the
partnership was announced in September, as Joyce restructures
operations to end overseas losses.  “I would think Qantas would have mixed emotions about
that,”  Peter Harbison , executive chairman of consultants CAPA
Centre for Aviation, said by telephone from Sydney. “It’s a
market where they are still dominant.” Routes across the
Pacific are some of its most  profitable , he said. “You just
have to go online and check the pricing to see it.”  ‘Qantas Territory’  Qantas fell 0.6 percent to A$1.565 at the close in Sydney,
their sharpest fall since Dec. 14. The S&P/ASX 200 index also
slipped 0.6 percent.  The Australian carrier is currently focused on getting
approval for its existing alliance and moving its European hub
to Dubai, Luke Enright, a spokesman for the airline, said by e-
mail.  “Qantas sees lots of potential for our global partnership
with Emirates,” he said.  Clark said a tie-up across the Pacific Ocean was left out
of the discussions for the current Emirates-Qantas alliance
because “the trans-Pacific is Qantas territory.”  Still, the regulator’s initial approval doesn’t prevent the
carriers from exploring the option, he said. While the alliance
will focus on long-haul routes to  Europe  and within Australia,
the airlines want regulatory approval to work together
worldwide, according to an  Oct. 10 submission .  The companies could also link their routes into Dallas, the
hub for  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines , and Qantas could also fly
the  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 into Dubai once it starts receiving the
composite-bodied planes, Clark said.  Deal ‘Energizing’  With budget carrier Jetstar, Qantas has just under half of
about 33,000 seats available each week on flights between
Australia and the continental U.S., Canada and Hawaii, according
to data from CAPA.  Its main domestic rival,  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH) ,
has about 10,000 seats on its own aircraft and those operated by
its partners, Delta Air Lines Inc. and Hawaiian Airlines Inc.,
the data show.  The deal between Qantas and Emirates was “energizing”
regional airlines to strike new alliances, Clark said, citing a
recent code-share agreement between Air New Zealand Ltd. and
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) ’s
decision to take a 10 percent stake in Virgin Australia.  China Eastern Accord  “All sorts of arrangements are taking place that you
wouldn’t have even thought about,” he said.  China Eastern Airlines Corp., which operates code-share
arrangements on Qantas flights into mainland China through its
hub in  Shanghai , is also now  pushing to deepen that alliance ,
the Australian Financial Review reported today, citing its
Oceania head Kathy Zhang.  Liu Shaoyong, the Chinese carrier’s chairman, will visit
Sydney this month to advance talks on the tie-up, the newspaper
quoted Zhang as saying. The two airlines are setting up a Hong
Kong low-cost carrier under the Jetstar brand.  Shen Xiaosheng, a spokesman for the Shanghai-based airline,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
report.  Under the planned accord due to start in April, Emirates
and Qantas intend to coordinate pricing, sales and scheduling,
as well as aligning frequent-flier programs so passengers can
earn points on both carriers’ flights. Emirates will gain access
to Qantas’s Australia and New Zealand network under the deal.  Emirates is also studying ways to increase the range of the
aircraft to allow it to run services to Los Angeles, as well as
Houston and  San Francisco , Clark said, and may need as many as
30 more of the double-decker jumbos.  India Airlines  It won’t make any bids for  Jet Airways India Ltd. (JETIN)  or
 Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , he said, because Indian carriers lack
the control of operations, finances and their workforces that
Emirates sees as necessary.  Jet is in talks with Etihad Airways PJSC, based in Dubai’s
neighboring emirate of  Abu Dhabi , about a stake sale, the Indian
company said Jan. 3.  “If the Indians themselves can’t make a go of it -- if
Vijay Mallya can’t, and Naresh is struggling, and  Air India ?”
Clark said, referring to Kingfisher’s Chairman Mallya, his
counterpart at Jet, Naresh Goyal, and the state-owned carrier.
“If they can’t make it work, then who can?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  