-- Energy Boosts U.S. Office Market as Pittsburgh Rents Jump
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-01-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/energy-boosts-u-s-office-market-as-pittsburgh-rents-jump.html
Leasing demand from natural-gas and
other energy companies is helping to bolster the U.S.  office (BBREOFPY) 
market and drive growth in cities such as Pittsburgh, where
rents are at their highest in more than a decade.  Greater Pittsburgh, along with Houston and other cities
with concentrations of energy-related workers, is outpacing
national growth in rents and occupancy, according to a report
today from  Reis Inc. , which showed U.S. office landlords had net
gains in leased space for a second year in 2012, following three
years of declines. Tenants in energy, along with technology,
helped push the national vacancy rate to a three-year low.  In the fourth quarter, greater Pittsburgh office rents
after landlord concessions climbed 1 percent from the previous
three months, compared with 0.8 percent for the U.S., while the
area’s vacancy rate held at 15.5 percent, below the national
average of 17.1 percent, New York-based Reis said. Pittsburgh
tenants paid an average of $17.68 a square foot in the fourth
quarter, the highest since 2000, ranking it 12th out of 79
markets for growth. In Houston, effective rents rose 1.7
percent, the fifth-most nationwide.  “In a market that’s been very choppy, the energy sector
has been one of the bright spots,” said Dennis Friedrich, chief
executive officer of  Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) , the New
York-based owner of Houston’s Allen Center and properties in
other energy-dominated markets, including Denver and Calgary.  The fourth-quarter U.S. office vacancy rate, down from 17.2
percent in the previous three months and 17.4 percent a year
earlier, was the lowest since the end of 2009, Reis said.  Marcellus Shale  Of the top 10 markets for year-over-year growth in asking
rents, seven were centered on technology or energy, according to
the research company.  San Francisco  had the largest gain, at 6.6
percent.  In the Pittsburgh area,  Williams Cos. (WMB) , the third-largest
U.S. pipeline operator, is expanding for work connected to the
Marcellus Shale, a layer of gas-saturated rock that lies more
than a mile underneath much of Pennsylvania.  The company, based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , plans to move about
240 employees to a bigger regional office about 17 miles (27
kilometers) southwest of Pittsburgh after outgrowing space
nearby, said Julie Gentz, a spokeswoman. Williams agreed in June
to rent 100,000 square feet (9,000 square meters) in the
Southpointe business park in Washington County, where companies
including  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  and  Consol Energy Inc. (CNX)  have
regional or national headquarters.  Revitalizing Economy  More than 50 companies began operations in the Pittsburgh
area in 2011, helping to revitalize the economy three decades
after the collapse of the  steel industry , according to the
Pittsburgh Regional Alliance, a group that seeks to attract
capital investments to the 10-county region.  “All of a sudden, you have  Texas  and Oklahoma coming into
rural Washington County,” said Jeanne Antonuccio, president of
 About Pittsburgh Inc. , a relocation-services consultancy with
clients in industries including energy, finance and health care.
“Our business has increased significantly.”  Range Resources in November 2011 built a new regional
headquarters in Southpointe that houses about 300 employees,
said Matt Pitzarella, a spokesman. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based
company also leases another 110,000 square feet in Washington
County as an operations center, he said.  Range was the first energy producer to successfully draw
natural gas from the Marcellus formation, now the largest
producing gas field in the U.S., according to the company.  Industry Growth  In 2007, when Range leased its first office in southwestern
 Pennsylvania , “we were the only drilling-related company in
 Southpointe ,” Pitzarella said. “Today there are approximately
65 companies in the park who work in our industry, and almost
all of them do work for Range.”  The company has about 5,000 people who work as full-time
subcontractors in the region, plus another 1,000 subcontractors
in other parts of the state, he said.  “Our entire western and southern submarkets are littered
with firms out of Houston,” the center of the U.S.  energy
industry , said Jeremy Kronman, executive vice president for
commercial broker  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  in Pittsburgh. “This has
helped to push the region’s total employment past the heydays of
the  steel mills  in the ’70s. Pittsburgh is now at an  all-time
employment high .”  Pennsylvania ranks second behind Texas in having the
largest number of jobs in the unconventional energy industry --
fuel extracted through methods other than wells, according to
IHS Global Insight, an Englewood, Colorado-based provider of
business information.  Hydraulic Fracturing  The Pittsburgh region -- along with parts of  North Dakota ,
 Ohio ,  New York  and  West Virginia  -- is drawing energy-industry
tenants because of new techniques such as horizontal drilling
and hydraulic fracturing, or high-pressure water injections,
that have made it possible to release the gas contained in
shale. So-called fracking has raised objections from
environmentalists partly because of possible contamination from
the chemically treated water that’s used.  “With the focus on energy independence for the U.S., we
are seeing growth within our major energy tenants” and
ancillary service companies, said Brookfield’s Friedrich. The
 company  forecasts rent growth of more than 5 percent this year
in both Houston and Denver.  “With the continued positive net absorption, which not
many markets have experienced, there’s also a very controlled
supply pipeline in both markets,” said Friedrich, whose company
is the biggest office landlord in the U.S., according to
 National Real Estate Investor .  2013 Outlook  New office construction in the U.S. totaled 3.17 million
square feet in the fourth quarter, down from 3.82 million in the
previous three months and 3.65 million a year earlier, Reis
said.  Office landlords had a net increase in occupancy of 3.69
million square feet in the period, down from 4.82 million in the
third quarter and 4.84 million a year earlier, according to
Reis. That brought so-called net absorption for the year to 17.2
million square feet, down from 17.5 million in 2011.  “The outlook for 2013 is slightly better than what we
experienced in 2012,” said Ryan Severino, senior economist at
Reis. Still, job growth is far from robust, higher payroll and
income taxes are likely to reduce consumption and the government
is expected to implement spending cuts, he said.  “We expect an acceleration in both rent growth and vacancy
compression,” Severino said. “But it is important to keep
expectations aligned with reality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  