-- Equity Residential to Sell Up to $1.5 Billion of Units
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-01-07T16:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/equity-residential-to-sell-27-properties-to-goldman-greystar.html
Equity Residential (EQR) , the largest
publicly traded U.S. apartment landlord, agreed to sell 27
properties to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Greystar Real Estate
Partners LLC for as much as $1.5 billion.  The transaction values the apartments at about $187,000 per
unit, Chicago-based Equity Residential said in a statement
today. The joint venture is obligated to purchase at least $1.38
billion of assets. The 8,010 units are located in northern  New
Jersey ,  Florida , Phoenix, Denver, Southern California and the
Washington, D.C., and San Francisco Bay areas.  Equity Residential, founded by billionaire  Sam Zell , said
in November that it would sell some assets after agreeing to buy
part of rival landlord Archstone Inc. from Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., a deal that will boost holdings in cities where
it already has properties. The real estate investment trust is
accelerating its disposal of properties outside its core growth
areas, with plans for as much as $4 billion in sales.  Today’s deal is “evidence that they had their ducks in
order from the very beginning in terms of how they were going to
finance the Archstone transaction,”  Richard Anderson , a REIT
analyst with BMO Capital Markets in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “They’re no dummies. They’re not going to
sign up for a several-billion-dollar transaction and not have a
pretty good plan in place before they announce it.”  ‘Significant Progress’  Equity Residential agreed to purchase 60 percent of
Archstone in a cash-and-stock deal valued at about $6.5 billion.
 AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB) , the second-biggest publicly traded
apartment landlord, is buying the other 40 percent.  The sale to Goldman and Greystar is expected to be
completed by the end of March.  “With this transaction we will have made significant
progress selling assets in our exit markets and non-core assets
in primary markets to fund our share of the acquisition of
Archstone,” David J. Neithercut, Equity Residential’s president
and chief executive officer, said in the statement. “Demand for
multifamily assets remains very strong.”  The $187,000 price per unit is more than the $149,000
average last year for the seven regions in which Equity
Residential sold assets, according to Ben Carlos Thypin,
director of market analysis at Real Capital Analytics Inc. in
New York.  “It is reasonable to assume these are assets of relatively
high quality,” Thypin said in an e-mail.  The properties include the  Ellipse at Government Center , a
newly renovated community in Fairfax, Virginia, with a pool and
tennis court where a two-bedroom apartment can be leased for
$1,450 a month, according to Equity Residential’s website.  Also included in the deal is  Iron Horse Park , north of  San
Francisco  in Pleasant Hill, where apartments have views of Mount
Diablo and a two-bedroom unit rents for $1,825.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  