-- Mergers in 2013, Jones Day, Cadwalader: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/mergers-in-2013-jones-day-cadwalader-business-of-law.html
The first week of January brought
several new  law firm  combinations. Midwestern firm Dickinson
Wright PLLC announced a merger with Phoenix-based Mariscal,
Weeks, McIntyre & Friedlander PA, to create a 350-lawyer firm.
Houston-based civil litigation law firm Beirne Maynard & Parsons
LLP acquired New Orleans’s Lemle & Kelleher LLP, to create an
80-lawyer firm. Wilson Elser Moskowitz Edelman & Dicker LLP
absorbed Houston’s Powers & Frost LLP. Boston-based  Rissman
Hendricks Oliverio LLP  joined Novak Druce Connolly Bove + Quigg
LLP, which is based in Houston.  Dickinson Wright, founded in Detroit, has 12 offices in
Michigan,  Arizona , Nevada, Ohio, Tennessee and  Washington . Its
combination with Mariscal Weeks, which has about 60 lawyers in
its sole Phoenix office, expands the firm’s geographic range. In
Arizona, the combined firm will operate under the name Dickinson
Wright/Mariscal Weeks.  “The Arizona and Southwestern U.S. legal and business
communities are key markets for our client base,” William T. Burgess, chief executive officer of Dickinson Wright, said in a
statement about the motivation for the combination.  Beirne Maynard has five offices in Texas and  Louisiana . The
firm said in a statement that acquiring Lemle & Kelleher will
allow it to expand its commercial transactions, securities, and
white-collar defense and litigation practices, specifically in
the areas of energy, environmental, employment, commercial,
bankruptcy, transportation and maritime law.  Lemle & Kelleher, which had offices in  New Orleans  and
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, traces its origins to the late 19th
century when New Orleans was experiencing a boom as the shipping
and commercial center of the South, the firm says on its
website.  “We have combined skilled litigation and commercial
transaction attorneys while strengthening our international
reach and presence along the Gulf Coast,” Brit T. Brown,
managing partner for Beirne Maynard said in a statement.  Wilson Elser, with almost 800 lawyers at 24 U.S. offices,
almost doubled its numbers in Houston with the absorption of
Powers & Frost’s eight lawyers. The firm now has 20 lawyers in
Houston and 35 in Dallas.  Novak Druce, which completed a merger with Connolly Bove on
Jan. 1, took on seven attorneys, including four partners, from
Rissman. The new hires, who are opening a Boston office for the
firm, make Novak Druce the seventh largest IP firm in the
country with more than 140 attorneys, agents and technical
advisers across eight offices, the firm said.  Moves  Former Ohio Supreme Court Justice Joins Jones Day in Columbus  Jones Day  hired former Ohio Supreme Court Justice Yvette McGee Brown, who will join the firm as a partner in the Columbus
office where she will be part of the business and tort
litigation practice.  McGee Brown has experience deciding constitutional,
regulatory, utility, health care and contract cases. She was
elected to the Franklin County Common Pleas Court, Domestic
Relations and Juvenile Division, in 1992, where she served until
2002. After retiring from the bench, she created the Center for
Child and Family Advocacy at Nationwide Children’s Hospital, the
firm said. She has also been a public company director for M/I
Homes and sat on the board of Fifth Third Bank of Central Ohio.
She sat on the Ohio Supreme Court from January 2011 through
December of 2012.  “As we continue to expand our capabilities throughout the
Midwest, Yvette brings a terrific judicial perspective to our
world class litigation practice,” said Lyle Ganske, the partner
responsible for coordinating the firm’s activities in Cleveland,
Columbus and Pittsburgh.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 37 offices
throughout the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Cadwalader Hires Capital Markets Partner in Beijing  Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP announced that Rose Zhu,
formerly a partner at K&L Gates LLP, where she specialized in
 capital markets , mergers and acquisitions and bank financing
transactions, has joined the firm’s corporate group as a
partner. Zhu is the fourth partner to join the firm’s Asia
practice since 2012 and she will reside in the Beijing office,
the firm said.  Zhu has worked with issuers and underwriters navigating
complex cross-border transactions throughout Hong Kong, Europe
and the U.S. She has advised clients such as  China Development
Bank , Sinochem, China Construction Bank,  Agricultural Bank of
China , CITIC Bank and Postal Savings Bank of China, among
others. She has also advised several investment banks, such as
China International Capital Corp., Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan,
Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley and Macquarie, leading
transactions related to deal structure, deal protection,
governance and defensive mechanisms, the firm said.  Cadwalader has lawyers in eight offices in the U.S., Europe
and China.  Foley Adds Health-Care and Transactional Attorney in Boston  Foley & Lardner LLP announced that Christopher J. Donovan,
formerly at partner at McDermott Will & Emery LLP, has joined
the firm’s health-care industry team and business law department
as a partner in the Boston office. He will also be a member of
the life sciences and senior living industry teams. He practiced
at McDermott for almost 30 years and co-led the firm’s Post-
Acute and Outpatient Services Strategy Affinity Group, the firm
said.  Donovan’s practice is focused on counseling companies, as
well as their investors and lenders, in mergers and
acquisitions, recapitalizations, buyouts and restructurings. He
represents clients in the life sciences and health service
sectors, particularly in post-acute health care.  Foley & Lardner LLP has approximately 900 attorneys in 21
offices, in the U.S., Brussels and Asia.  McDermott Hires State & Local Tax Lawyers from Sutherland  McDermott Will & Emery LLP hired partner Stephen P. Kranz
and at least one other lawyer in the firm’s state and local tax
practice group in Washington. They were both previously with
Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP.  Kranz focuses on state tax controversy and tax policy
matters. He also is involved in taxpayer advocacy including
audit defense and litigation, legislative monitoring, and the
formation and leadership of taxpayer coalitions, the firm said.
Previously, he was general counsel to trade association, Council
on State Taxation.  In 2012, McDermott expanded its tax team with 11 new
partners, including Washington tax controversy attorney Dwight
Mersereau who previously served inside the  Internal Revenue
Service .  McDermott has more than 1,100 lawyers with 18 offices in
the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Edwards Wildman Hires Hong Kong Litigation Partner  John Yiu has joined Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP as a
litigation partner in Hong Kong. Before joining Edwards Wildman,
Yiu was a partner at ONC Lawyers in Hong Kong.  Yiu has experience in complex commercial litigation and
arbitration. His practice includes insolvency and restructuring,
employment litigation, and shipping litigation.  Edwards Wildman’s office in Hong Kong, which was founded in
2006, was formally integrated into Edwards Wildman on Jan. 1 and
recognized as a law firm permitted to practice Hong Kong law.
The firm has 650 lawyers in 15 offices in the U.S. London and
Asia.  Roetzel Expands White With Four Attorneys in Florida  Roetzel & Andress LPA announced that three partners, Jon
May, Andrew B. Demers and Paul A. Giordano, and an associate
have joined the firm’s Florida offices, expanding the business
litigation group’s white-collar crime and creditors’ rights
services. May and Demers joined the Fort Lauderdale office,
Giordano is based in  Fort Myers .  May has spent more than 30 years practicing as a trial and
appellate lawyer, most recently in private practice at his own
firm of May & Cohen PA.  Demers’ practice focuses on representing banking and
commercial clients in business litigation and commercial
contract disputes. He previously was a partner with Fowler White
Boggs PA in Fort Lauderdale.  Giordano handles business and commercial litigation
matters, with a special focus on bankruptcy creditors’ rights,
partnership disputes, commercial foreclosures, contract and
corporate disputes, and general and professional liability
lawsuits, the firm said. He also previously was a partner with
Fowler White Boggs PA in Fort Myers.  Roetzel has more than 200 attorneys and 13 offices located
throughout Ohio and Florida and in Chicago, New York and
Washington.  News  JPMorgan Faces Sanction for Refusing to Provide Madoff Documents  The Treasury Department’s inspector general has threatened
to punish  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for failing to turn over
documents to regulators investigating the bank’s ties to  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.  Inspector General Eric Thorson gave the largest U.S. bank a
Jan. 11 deadline to cooperate with the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency probe or risk sanctions for impeding the
agency’s oversight. JPMorgan, according to the Dec. 21 letter,
contends the information is protected by attorney-client
privilege.  Thorson’s letter didn’t spell out what documents the OCC is
seeking or the focus of its investigation. Madoff is serving a
150-year sentence after confessing to the fraud that once
claimed to have $65 billion in customer assets.  The previously undisclosed OCC probe adds to the lender’s
troubles in Washington, where several agencies and lawmakers are
investigating the bank’s loss of at least $6.2 billion on
botched derivatives trades. The losses have prompted regulators
including the  Federal Reserve  to consider tightening proposed
restrictions on proprietary trading.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said the bank
“will of course continue to work together with our regulators”
on the investigation.  “This dispute does not go to the merits of the matter but
it does raise an important issue of principle: Whether we and
other banks, large and small alike, have the fundamental right
long recognized in this country to communicate freely with and
seek confidential guidance from their lawyers,” Zuccarelli said
in an interview.  Bryan Hubbard , an OCC spokesman, declined to comment on the
agency’s Madoff inquiry.  In the letter sent to JPMorgan general counsel  Stephen Cutler , the inspector general -- the Treasury’s internal
watchdog -- dismissed JPMorgan’s arguments on attorney-client
privilege, saying the OCC “could not do its work” if banks
were allowed to withhold information on that basis. The OCC
asked the IG office to review the situation, Thorson said in the
letter.  Failure to produce records “will have to be seen as a
continuing purposeful impediment to the authority of the OCC,”
the letter said, and would “require further action by our
office.”  The trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm, Irving H. Picard,
sued JPMorgan in December 2010, accusing the bank of aiding
Madoff’s fraud. The lawsuit, eventually demanding $19 billion,
the largest of Picard’s claims, has since been dismissed. Picard
has appealed the ruling.  JPMorgan “had financial reports in its possession that
clearly evidenced fraud,” David J. Sheehan, lead counsel for
Picard and a partner at Baker & Hostetler LLP, said in a
February 2011 statement. JPMorgan was the Madoff firm’s
“primary banker for more than two decades,” Sheehan said.  In responding to Picard’s suit, the bank issued a statement
in 2011 saying it “did not know about or in any way become a
party to the fraud” and called it an “unfounded claim” that
JPMorgan earned substantial fees from Madoff’s account. JPMorgan
also objected in court when the trustee sought more freedom to
use confidential Madoff documents provided by the bank.  For more, click here.  Video  Case Western Reserve Dean: There’s No Oversupply of Lawyers  The  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  projects there will be
74,000 new lawyer jobs this decade, while American law schools
will produce more than 400,000 graduates. Despite those numbers,
“it’s not clear to me there’s an oversupply problem at all,”
says Case Western Reserve Law School Dean Lawrence Mitchell.  With so many legal needs of the poor going unmet, “finding
different paths for people who truly want to be lawyers opens up
all sorts of possibilities” for law graduates to find jobs,
Mitchell maintains.  “We’re running a business” that’s grown more expensive
every year because of clinics and smaller class sizes, he tells
Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia. Contrary to popular wisdom, “I
don’t turn over a big chunk [of law school tuition dollars] to
the university, and I’m not teaching 150 kids in a class,” he
says. Mitchell wrote an op-ed in the New York Times in late
November, taking to task the many critics of legal education.  Terminal Users: Click here to play now.  France Faces Difficulty Imposing 75% Tax, Lawyer Says  Arnaud Jamin, a tax lawyer at Fidal, discusses French
President  Francois Hollande ’s plans to re-introduce a
millionaires’ tax of 75 percent next year.  He speaks from Paris with Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson 
on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  Terminal Users: Click here to play now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 