-- Hering’s Top Return Ranking Threatened by Gap’s Arrival
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-01-07T21:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/hering-s-top-return-ranking-threatened-by-gap-s-arrival.html
Cia. Hering, the clothing retailer
with  Brazil ’s best-performing stock offering since 2007, is
bracing for slower sales growth and increased competition with
the arrival of Gap Inc.  The Brazilian chain known for affordable jeans and T-shirts
plans to increase its Hering Kids stores more than 10-fold to
250 outlets even as the company confronts a cooler domestic
economy, Chief Financial Officer Frederico De Aguiar Oldani said
in an interview. Hering ended 2012 with more than 500 stores.  Renovations and celebrity marketing campaigns financed by
Hering’s offering helped more than  triple sales  in the past five
years. Now, a Brazilian retail clothing market valued at 100
billion reais ($49 billion) is drawing in Gap, the largest U.S.
specialty-apparel merchant, with its first local store in 2013
and the prospect of more to come.  “What you can’t do is get left behind,” Oldani said by
telephone from Sao Paulo. “You have to keep attracting your
client to the store, showing that you are evolving.”  Hering, whose  stock  was held largely by its namesake
family, was managed as a private entity before the 2007 offering
valued at $312 million reais ($153 million). The capital, which
also helped pay for a wider array of apparel rotating through
stores, was needed to fuel a comeback after what Oldani
described as major financial difficulties since the 1990s.  Biggest Advance  Hering climbed 10-fold afterward, the largest gain among
250 Brazilian companies in the period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares surged 25 percent in the past
12 months, beating the 5.7 percent advance on the benchmark
Bovespa index.  Investors embraced gains in earnings and sales that the
company says it probably won’t be able to replicate.  Hering’s margin  on earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, widened to 29 percent
in 2011 from 8.1 percent in 2007. Revenue jumped 41 percent in
2010 before tapering off, as inflation and a slowing Brazilian
economy muted the sales increase to 13 percent in the 12 months
that ended in September.  Going forward, “growth probably will not be as strong, and
we have a certain worry because inflation is high and should
continue to increase, and labor costs are also increasing,”
Oldani said. “The scenario continues to be good, but not as
good as the last five years.”  ‘Growth Curve’  Brazil’s retail clothing market, which had “positioned
itself on a strong growth curve,” will probably align more
closely with the national economy in 2013, said Marcelo Villin
do Prado, director of IEMI Inteligencia de Mercado, a research
institute that specializes in textiles.  Gross-domestic product will probably grow just 3.3 percent
in 2013, according to a Dec. 21 central bank survey of about 100
economists. Economic expansion may have slowed to 1 percent in
2012, the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey, from 7.5
percent in 2007.  The arrival of Gap further complicates the landscape for
Hering. San Francisco-based Gap disclosed its Brazil store plans
last month and signaled that more outlets may be on the way.  The U.S. retailer, and potential followers including Uniqlo
Ltd. and  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , mark “the beginning of the
possibility of a long term trend of new competition,” said
Francisco Chevez, a New York-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc.  Outside Competitors  Brazil has been a battleground before for home-grown
companies facing outsiders trying to tap Latin America’s largest
economy.  Local lenders such as  Banco do Brasil  and Itau Unibanco
Holding SA still dominate Brazilian retail banking amid pressure
from rivals such as Spain’s Banco Santander SA. Citigroup Inc.
formed a partnership in 2012 with Elavon Inc., a U.S. payments-
processor that says the venture seeks to capture 15 percent of
Brazil’s market for card transactions in its first five years.  In food retailing,  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo
Pao de Acucar  has retained its No. 1 position amid competition
from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Carrefour SA of  France . Saint-
Etienne, France-based Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA gained
control of Pao de Acucar in 2012.  ‘Great Potential’  Hering and Gap want to take advantage of an increase in
consumers’ disposable income, which HSBC says tripled to $10,000
a year in 2011 from six years earlier. Gap plans to achieve its
goal in part through competitive pricing and is willing to
accept lower profit margins because of it, said Stefan Laban,
the company’s managing director of strategic alliances.  Gap sees “great potential” in Brazil, said Laban, who
declined to discuss sales projections. The retailer’s
international revenue reached $2.1 billion last year, compared
with $12.4 billion in North America.  Gap has been “very clear” that global franchises are
vital growth areas because they provide among the highest
returns, Richard Jaffe, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
said by telephone from New York.  “Much of the risk, the investment in the bricks and mortar
stores, is incurred by the partners in those countries, so that
becomes a very low risk-return venture for them,” Jaffe said.  ‘Many More’  Gap has seen “very strong” sales in the other Latin
American countries where it has operated since 2011, Laban said
in a telephone interview from  London . The company studied Brazil
for five years before agreeing to franchise its first local
store with Tudo Bom Comercio.  “We don’t come to Brazil to open three stores,” he said.
“It’s going to be many more than that.”  Oldani, the Hering CFO, said Brazil’s retail market already
was highly competitive even before Gap’s arrival. The Hering
Kids expansion, from 20 stores today, is part of the effort to
prevent stagnation -- and fend off new rivals.  “We don’t have the level of penetration that we think we
can reach,” Oldani said.  Hering’s changes also won’t stop with the growth at Hering
Kids, he said. “You have to be able to reinvent yourself
without losing your DNA,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  