-- European Banking Shares Surge on Eased Liquidity Rules
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-01-07T13:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/european-banking-shares-surge-on-watered-down-liquidity-rules.html
Shares of European banks including
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  surged as
central banking leaders agreed to water down and delay a planned
Basel 3 bank liquidity rule.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
rose as much as 2.1 percent with Italy’s Monte di Paschi die
Siena SpA leading gains at 19 percent. Deutsche Bank added as
much as 5 percent and both BNP Paribas and Barclays were up 4
percent.  Lenders will be allowed to use an expanded range of assets
including some equities and securitized mortgage debt to meet
the so-called liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, after a deal
struck by regulatory chiefs meeting yesterday in Basel,
Switzerland. Banks will have an extra four years to fully comply
with the measure.  “We see the LCR changes as a material improvement in the
regulatory environment that banks face,”  Matt Spick , an analyst
with Deutsche Bank in  London , wrote in a note to clients today.
“Corporate-heavy universal banks will be the biggest
beneficiaries.” Barclays, BNP Paribas,  Societe General SA (GLE)  and
 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA)  are among those, he said.  Banks and top officials such as European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi pushed for changes to the liquidity
ratio, arguing that it would choke interbank lending and make it
harder for authorities to implement monetary policies. Lenders
have warned the measure might force cuts in loans to businesses
and households.  “This is a significant relief for the banks,” Christian Hamann, a banking analyst with Hamburger Sparkasse in Hamburg,
said in an interview.“For many banks the liquidity rules are
the most painful part of Basel 3.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  