-- European Carbon Permits Climb Most in a Month After Auction
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-01-07T18:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/european-carbon-permits-climb-most-in-two-weeks-after-auction.html
European Union carbon permits rose
the most in a month after the bloc sold allowances in an auction
at a price above the prevailing market level for the first time
in more than six weeks.  EU contracts for December jumped 5.1 percent, the biggest
increase since Dec. 7, to close at 6.66 euros ($8.73) a metric
ton on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. Certified Emission
Reductions for December rose 13 percent to 45 euro cents a ton.  The bloc sold 3.5 million tons of EU permits at 6.18 euros
a ton in an auction hosted by European Energy Exchange AG. Day-
ahead futures for Phase 3 permits eligible through 2020 were bid
at 6.12 euros and offered at 6.21 euros on London’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange at 10 a.m., when the sale ended.  It’s the first time the auction price has been more than
the prompt cost since Nov. 23. The differential between the two
may be considered by traders as a signal of market demand.
Regulators are seeking to erode an oversupply in the system and
in November proposed to temporarily cut volumes to be sold in
auctions planned for the next three years.  At today’s sale, there were bids for a total of 9.2 million
tons, 2.6 times the number of permits offered, according to data
on the EEX website. That so-called cover ratio is the highest
since Dec. 11 and below the average of 2.8 for all sales of
Phase 3 permits.  Some emitters may be buying to cover shortages, Daniel Rossetto, managing director of Climate Mundial Ltd., a London-
based consulting company that works in carbon markets, said
today by e-mail.  Unlike the previous four years, factories and power
stations can’t use allowances distributed this year for
compliance against 2012 emissions, Rossetto said.  “Installations will not be allowed to borrow from 2013
allocations,” he said. The third phase of the market runs from
this year through 2020. After the turn of the year, facilities
will probably be getting a clear idea of their 2012 needs, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  