-- European Stocks Decline on Valuation; Peugeot Rallies
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-01-07T16:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-following-rally.html
European stocks  retreated, after the
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index reached its highest valuation in almost
three years, offsetting gains by lenders as central-bank
governors diluted a proposed liquidity rule.  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc lost 1.5 percent following a
report that it bribed an executive in  China  to win orders. A
gauge of European lenders rose 1.1 percent after the Group of
Governors and Heads of Supervision agreed to relax and delay the
standard.  Peugeot (UG)  SA gained 5.6 percent after a brokerage said
the company will probably start selling assets.  The Stoxx 600 declined 0.4 percent to 286.63 at the close
of trading as more than three stocks dropped for every two that
climbed. The equity benchmark closed at its highest level since
February 2011 last week after U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
compromise budget.  “It’s another positive for the banking sector, which could
be an important barometer for investors,” said Daniel Bjork,
who helps oversee about 52.6 billion Swiss francs ($57 billion)
at Swisscanto Asset Management AG in Zurich. “The relaxation
was more than what was expected both with increasing the
liquidity range and with the longer phasing-in period.”  The price-earnings ratio for the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  reached 19.1
times trailing earnings on Jan. 4, its highest level since March
2010. The number of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
today was 61 percent greater than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Ceiling  In the U.S., Republicans are planning to use the need to
raise the American government’s $16.4 trillion  debt ceiling  to
force President  Barack Obama  to accept spending cuts to
entitlement programs such as Medicare. Congress must act as
early as mid-February to prevent a default.  National benchmark indexes fell in 11 of the 18 western-
European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 Index fell 0.7 percent and
Germany’s DAX lost 0.6 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 retreated
0.4 percent.  Rolls-Royce (RR/)  fell 1.5 percent to 904.5 pence. Europe’s
largest maker of commercial aircraft and ship engines bribed an
executive at Air China Ltd. and China Eastern Airlines Corp. to
obtain $2 billion of deals, according to a Sunday Times report.
The company declined to comment on the article. The U.K.’s
Serious Fraud Office is holding an enquiry into Rolls-Royce’s
activity in several countries.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  declined 2.2 percent to 6.43
euros, its biggest drop in a month, as Bank of America Corp.
downgraded the shares to underperform, the equivalent of a sell
recommendation, from neutral. The brokerage cited Infineon’s
valuation.  RWE Slips  RWE AG (RWE)  retreated 3 percent to 30.94 euros as HSBC Holdings
Plc downgraded the stock to neutral from overweight, meaning
investors should no longer buy the shares. The brokerage said
that asset disposals and lower energy prices in  Germany  indicate
that earnings will decrease next year. RWE posted the biggest
slide on a  gauge of utilities .  The Stoxx 600 Banks Index rose 1.1 percent after central-
bank chiefs meeting yesterday in Basel, Switzerland allowed
lenders to use a wider range of assets to meet the so-called
liquidity coverage ratio.  Officials such as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi argued that the eligible assets should include some
equities and securitized mortgage debt to counter warnings that
the original proposal would choke interbank lending, making it
harder for the authorities to implement monetary policies.  The group of regulators also gave banks an extra four years
to fully comply with the measure.  European Lenders  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  climbed 3.8 percent to
287.2 pence and 1.9 percent to 45.21 euros, respectively.
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s largest lender, increased 2.8
percent to 35.78 euros and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France’s second-
biggest bank , added 2.7 percent to 30.13 euros.  Peugeot gained 5.6 percent to 6.52 euros. More than 17
percent of the French carmaker’s shares are out on loan,
according to data compiled by Markit. Some investors borrow
shares and then sell them, betting that the securities will drop
before they have to be repurchased.  Europe’s second-biggest automaker will probably sell
assets, starting with its majority stake in  Faurecia (EO) , CM-CIC
Securities said in a note today. The region’s largest maker of
car interiors soared 5.3 percent to 13.35 euros, its largest
gain in four months.  Wereldhave NV (WHA)  added 2.3 percent to 50.11 euros after
agreeing to sell its U.S. real estate to Lone Star Funds for
about $720 million. The Dutch property company plans to focus on
shopping centers in western Europe and use the proceeds from the
sale to reduce its debt.  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures volatility on the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 50 Index, rose 4.7 percent to 16.82. The
measure slumped 25 percent last week, its biggest weekly drop in
more than six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  