-- BlackRock’s IShares Drew Record Deposits in U.S. in 2012
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-01-07T17:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/exchange-traded-products-drew-record-deposits-last-year.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, attracted the most deposits into exchange-traded
products last year even as it continued to lose market share in
the U.S. to Vanguard Group Inc.  BlackRock’s iShares unit, which manages $759 billion in
ETPs and offers about 600 funds, pulled in $85.3 billion of a
record $262.7 billion in worldwide deposits, the most of any
provider, including a market-leading $61 billion in the U.S.,
according to a report today from New York-based BlackRock.
Vanguard drew $54.2 billion globally to rank second, according
to BlackRock.  BlackRock’s Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink said
last year the firm would address iShares’ strategy after the
firm lost market share in the U.S. to Vanguard, which has
boosted assets in exchange-traded funds with lower-cost
products. BlackRock in October created the iShares Core Series,
which is made up of 10 ETFs, six offering reduced fees and four
new ones, to attract retail and institutional clients planning
to invest over the long-term.  “The recent fee cuts/marketing campaign suggest BlackRock
still has room for growth in the ETF market,” Marc Irizarry, an
analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a research note
published today.  Global deposits into ETPs surpassed the previous high of
$259.7 billion in 2008, as fixed-income funds drew an
unprecedented $70 billion and emerging-market stock products
took in a record $54.8 billion, BlackRock said in the report.
Assets in ETPs were $1.9 trillion as of the end of last year, a
27 percent increase from 2011.  Bonds Surge  “Fixed income was a key driver of flows globally, as
investors of all kinds increasingly adopt ETFs as an essential
instrument for accessing the bond markets,” Mark Wiedman,
global head of iShares, said in a statement. “IShares captured
$28.8 billion globally or 41 percent of all new flows into fixed
income ETFs.”  BlackRock, which still has the biggest slice of the ETF
business, saw its U.S. ETF market share fall 1.3 percentage
points in 2012 through November to 41.4 percent, compared with
an increase of 2.3 percentage points for Vanguard to 18.5
percent, according to a report by  State Street Global Advisors .
State Street has the second-highest U.S. market share, with 23.6
percent, followed by Vanguard, the report said.  MSCI Dropped  State Street’s SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust attracted the most
deposits of any ETF in 2012 with $15.8 billion and Vanguard MSCI
 Emerging Markets  ETF was No. 2 with $10.6 billion, according to
the BlackRock report. IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund
was third with $10.5 billion.  Vanguard said in October it was going to drop  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  as
the benchmark provider for 22 index funds to lower costs for
shareholders over time. Vanguard, based in  Valley Forge ,
 Pennsylvania , last month lowered fees for 24 of its ETFs,
including the $4.76 billion Vanguard Short-Term Corporate Bond
ETF to 0.12 percent from 0.14 percent.  ETPs include those structured as funds, as well as
exchange-traded notes. ETFs grant shareholders a claim on assets
held by the fund, while ETNs represent an unsecured debt
obligation by the issuer to the holder. ETPs, unlike mutual
funds, trade throughout the day on an exchange, like stocks.
They typically hold a basket of securities or physical
commodities that tracks an index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  