-- Mexico Sells $1.5 Billion of Bonds in First 2013 Sovereign Deal
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-01-07T21:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/mexico-said-to-offer-2044-debt-in-first-sovereign-sale-this-year.html
Mexico  sold $1.5 billion of bonds
abroad in the first sovereign offering this year, according to a
person familiar with the transaction.  The country, which has Latin America’s biggest economy
after  Brazil , sold more of its 2044 debt to yield 1.1 percentage
points above Treasuries, or 4.194 percent, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because he wasn’t allowed to speak
publicly. The yield on the bonds fell to 4.11 percent on Jan. 4
from 4.84 percent when they were first issued in March,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investor demand for securities that offer higher yields
than those that are available from developed markets is rising
as central banks in Europe and the U.S. keep benchmark  interest
rates  near zero. The  extra yield  investors demand to own Mexican
debt instead of U.S. Treasuries has dropped to 149 basis points
from 216 basis points a year ago, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI index.  The offering was managed by Barclays Plc and JPMorgan Chase
& Co., said the person. The deal attracted more than $3 billion
of bids, according to Fadi Attia, a director of  emerging markets 
debt syndicate at Barclays.  “Mexico is perceived as a great credit,” Carlos Corona, a
director for Latin America debt capital markets at Barclays,
said in an interview in New York “This is a great vote of
confidence on the new administration and the government’s policy
agenda.”  Companies have sold $41.8 billion of bonds this month,
while no government has issued debt abroad so far, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  