-- Exxon Hedges Oil Sands With Offshore Hebron Project
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-01-07T22:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/exxon-hedges-oil-sands-with-offshore-hebron-project.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s plans to develop
a $14 billion underwater oil field off Newfoundland’s coast
allows the world’s biggest energy company to hedge against
discounted crude from  Canada ’s oil sands.  “The better pricing is definitely an issue,” Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. said by phone from
St. Louis on Jan. 4. “While things could change in the time it
takes to finish the project, it’s a great way for Exxon to hedge
their pricing.”  The investment to capture 700 million barrels of heavy
undersea crude at the field about 350 kilometers (218 miles)
southeast of St. John’s rivals spending in Alberta’s oil sands,
where the estimated 170 billion barrels of recoverable reserves
attracted C$23 billion ($23.2 billion) in spending last year.
 Newfoundland  and Labrador oil is priced off the global
benchmark, almost twice as high as western Canada’s heavy crude,
and will help Exxon add to profit growth.  As Exxon and global competitors seek to lock up reserves in
increasingly hard-to-reach terrain, offshore Canadian oil in
Newfoundland and the Arctic is becoming more attractive.  The Hebron project puts Canada’s offshore assets, not
normally the subject of a lot of development “chatter,” back
on the map, Jennifer Stevenson, a vice president who helps
manage about C$100 billion at Dynamic Funds in Toronto, said on
Jan. 4.  Gulf Spill  “It checks the box for that area meeting all the criteria
for significant project investment from companies that can
choose to go anywhere in the world,” Stevenson said by phone.
“They could go to Nigeria, offshore Arctic, Mexico,  Brazil .
They can go anywhere and those guys are going to put $14 billion
in offshore Newfoundland.”  Exxon, the world’s biggest energy company by market value,
said it expects to begin production around the end of 2017 at
Hebron, designed for daily output of 150,000 barrels. Hebron is
the fourth oil project to be developed in the province’s
offshore industry, which also includes the producing Hibernia,
Terra Nova and White Rose fields.  Exxon,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and others looking to maintain
reserves are returning to offshore drilling following the 2010
oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico when an explosion killed 11
workers at BP Plc’s Macondo well.  ‘New Story’  While Canada’s oil sands in Alberta are among the world’s
largest reserves, investors may be looking to other
opportunities as well to help diversify their risks and assets,
said Youssef Zohny, a portfolio manager based in  Vancouver , said
in an interview Jan. 4.  “This may be the beginning of a new story in East Coast
exploration and something to watch out for,” Zohny, who helps
oversee C$14.5 billion ($14.7 billion) at Stenner Investment
Partners of Richardson GMP. “It’s definitely a big positive
seeing foreign investors come in not only in Calgary but in
Newfoundland as well.”  Exxon is operator of the Hebron development and owns a 36
percent stake, according to the project’s website. Other
partners include Chevron Corp.,  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Statoil ASA
and Nalcor Energy Corp. Newfoundland has a 4.9 percent stake in
the project through its ownership of Nalcor.  Exxon fell 1.2 percent to C$87.93 at the close in New York
today while Suncor dropped 1 percent to C$33.23 in Toronto.
Crude oil for February delivery rose 22 cents, or 0.2 percent to
$93.31 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Newfoundland, Canada’s most easterly province which is
closer to  London  than Calgary, already produces about 190,000
barrels a day from offshore fields, a volume comparable to
 Louisiana ’s onshore crude output. Production in the province
fell 29 percent in the first nine months of 2012.  Alberta Bottlenecks  Previous plans to develop Hebron collapsed in 2006 amid a
dispute with provincial officials over ownership stakes. Chevron
later ceded control of the project to Exxon.  For Canada’s crude producers, who produce mainly in
 Alberta , a lack of pipeline access to markets has crimped
prices, making drilling of higher-priced offshore oil more
favorable, Youngberg said.  The estimated cost to build Hebron, nearly triple the
original forecast of C$5 billion in 2006, has risen as drilling
prices escalate and comes amid global competition for labor and
equipment, Youngberg at Edward Jones said.  Output at Exxon, based in Irving,  Texas , has fallen five
straight quarters. Chief Executive Officer Rex Tillerson is
working to reverse those declines with projects like Hebron, the
Kearl oil-sands project as well as exploration efforts in
 Russia ’s Arctic.  “Hebron is one of several large-scale oil developments
that Exxon Mobil will bring on stream in the next five years,”
Neil Duffin, president of Exxon Mobil Development Co, said in a
statement on Jan. 4  Western Discount  At current prices, the approximately 700 million barrels of
reserves at Hebron would be worth about $77.8 billion. Brent
traded at about $111 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange on Friday. That compares with $57 for Western Canada
Select, the benchmark for oil-sands crude, according to figures
compiled by Bloomberg.  While the Hebron project will be a small fraction of
Exxon’s total production, it will be necessary for a company
seeking multiple sources of new output to stave off production
declines, said Timothy Parker, a portfolio manager at T. Rowe
Price International Inc. in Baltimore, who holds Exxon shares.  “It’s all about reinvigorating its portfolio even if is
comes in 1 to 2 percent increments like this project would be,”
Parker said in a phone interview.  Growth Gaining  Exxon said as many as 3,500 people will be employed during
Hebron’s construction.  “Hebron will support jobs, the economy and strengthens our
province’s position as an energy warehouse,” Kathy Dunderdale,
Premier of Newfoundland and Labrador, said in a Jan. 4
statement.  Newfoundland has traditionally been one of Canada’s least-
developed and poorest provinces. In recent years, oil
exploration has helped the economy grow at a faster pace than
Ontario, the most populous province. The province  expects  growth
of 2.8 percent in 2013, compared with 1.8 percent for Canada,
according to the median estimate of 29 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg .  The technical challenges involved in drawing Hebron’s heavy
crude from beneath the icy North Atlantic will draw on expertise
Exxon honed while drilling in Arctic conditions at Norman Wells
in the Northwest Territories since the 1930s and extracting
heavy oil in  Venezuela  during the 1990s.  Arctic Drilling  Exxon’s pursuit of offshore Arctic oil stretches to the
other side of the globe. In April, the U.S. explorer and
Russia’s OAO Rosneft agreed to spend $3.2 billion on an
exploration portfolio that includes wells in the Kara Sea, which
can freeze over for as long as nine months annually.  “The economics work, it’s challenging, but the resource is
there, so why wouldn’t you develop it,”  Parker at T. Rowe
Price International said, referring to the Newfoundland
developments.  As climate change increases temperatures across the planet,
the Arctic is warming faster than other regions, opening up
undersea natural resources for exploitation as the ice melts.
Arctic sea ice shrank to its smallest on record last year,
according to a Nov. 28 report by the World Meteorological
Organization.  Arctic conditions such as those off Newfoundland add an
extra layer of difficulty for engineers and geologists
accustomed to drilling for crude in ice-free zones such as the
U.S. Gulf of  Mexico  or  Africa ’s Gulf of Guinea. Shell’s Arctic
drilling effort off the Alaskan coast suffered a setback last
week when a specially-designed, ice-proof rig ran aground during
a violent storm.  Iceberg Patrol  Exxon has been studying the size, shapes and movement
patterns of icebergs off Canada’s northeast coastline since
1981. At the 1.3 billion-barrel Hibernia field, the province’s
largest single source of crude, the company uses radar and
aircraft to detect icebergs that may threaten the 735-foot tall
platform and dispatches specialized boats to tow or deflect
them, according to the company’s website.  The decision to proceed with Hebron “shows there is life
in these fields,” said John Stephenson, who helps manage C$2.7
billion at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto,
including shares in Exxon and Suncor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  