-- F.I.B.I. Holdings Surges on Bank Unit Plans: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-01-07T14:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/f-i-b-i-holdings-surges-on-bank-unit-plans-tel-aviv-mover.html
F.I.B.I. Holdings Ltd., the parent
company of  First International Bank of Israel Ltd. , surged after
it said controlling shareholders are seeking direct ownership of
the country’s fifth-largest bank.  The holding company’s  shares  advanced 12 percent, the most
in more than four years, to 70.66 shekels at the market close in
Tel Aviv. Trading was four times the three-month average daily
volume.  First International Bank (FTIN)  dropped 5 percent to 51.66
shekels as the  TA-25 benchmark  index dropped 0.8 percent.  The company said yesterday after markets closed that its
controlling shareholders are in talks with the country’s bank
regulator to allow them to directly hold a stake in the lender.
The holding company may do this by dividing most of the shares
in the bank as a dividend to F.I.B.I. shareholders and also
through a sale of the bank’s shares held by the holding company
to pay off debt, according to a filing to the Tel-Aviv Stock
Exchange yesterday.  “The move is positive for F.I.B.I. shareholders as the
discount to its net asset value should close,” Zach Herzog,
head of sales at Psagot Investment House Ltd. said today by
phone from  Tel Aviv . “We assume the owners will look to
distribute up to 7 percent of the shares of First International
Bank to the market to pay back debt of F.I.B.I. and that will
put pressure on First International shares.”  F.I.B.I. holds a 53.53 percent stake in the bank valued at
about 2.8 billion shekels,  according to data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The holding company’s current market value is 1.86
billion shekels. First International Bank shares advanced 60
percent in 2012, bringing its market value to 5.2 billion
shekels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  