-- Fairfax Debt Gains Most in Two Months as Cuts Loom: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-01-07T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/fairfax-debt-gains-most-in-two-months-as-cuts-loom-muni-credit.html
Debt of Fairfax County,  Virginia ,
home to defense contractors such as  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , is
the strongest in two months even as it faces losing its top
 credit rating  within weeks as federal spending cuts loom.  The county with the nation’s second-highest median
 household income  is offering its biggest competitive bond sale
since 2009 this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The $318
million issue comes two months before automatic  federal budget 
reductions nationwide that could hurt the economy in Fairfax,
which also hosts contractors  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)   The corporate presence makes Fairfax one of 36 localities,
all with the highest ratings, that Moody’s Investors Service
said it would downgrade along with the U.S. if lawmakers can’t
agree on deficit-reduction measures. Yet investors are still
buying debt of the county, which had its biggest revenue growth
since 2008 and set aside $8 million to offset potential federal
cutbacks. Holders are demanding the least extra yield in two
months, according to Bloomberg data.  “Local-government officials in Virginia have been prudent
in how they manage their budgets, and I don’t see that changing
anytime soon,” said  John Bonnell , who oversees USAA Investment
Management Co.’s  Virginia Bond Fund (USVAX) , which beat 89 percent of
its peers in the past year.  Buying Plan  Bonnell, who’s based in San Antonio, said the company may
buy some of the general obligations Fairfax plans to issue this
week.  Fairfax, which trails only neighboring Loudoun County in
terms of household income, is among top-rated municipalities
from  Maryland  to  New Mexico  that benefited from federal spending
to counter the longest recession since the 1930s. Their credit
standing is now at risk from the nation’s $16.4 trillion debt
burden.  The U.S. reached its debt limit Dec. 31 and the Treasury
will exhaust measures to finance the government as early as mid-
February, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The Jan.
1 deal to avert more than $600 billion in federal tax increases
and spending cuts didn’t provide “meaningful improvement” in
the U.S. debt burden, leaving the nation’s Aaa rank at risk,
Moody’s said.  Economy Driver  The U.S. is moving to cut some $1.2 trillion of spending
over the next decade. As part of last week’s deal, Congress
delayed by about two months the $109 billion of reductions that
were to begin this month. Half are to come from defense
spending, a driver of Virginia’s economy.  “Any issuer that has a large concentration of either
federal employees or governmental contractors makes them
vulnerable to potential cuts,” Bonnell said. “That has been a
source of stability.”  The county of about 1.1 million across the Potomac River
from  Washington  has the highest credit grades from the three
major rating companies. Fairfax has $2.2 billion of general-
obligation debt, according to Moody’s.  “We have been told there’s a lot of interest in our bond
sale,” said Joe LaHait, the county’s debt coordinator. “We
believe we’ve got a very strong credit profile.”  Spending Lure  In fiscal 2011, spending related to federal contracts
totaled $26 billion in the county, according to bond documents.
Even with a 10 percent drop from that level, the disbursement
would be 40 percent higher than in 2008.  The county plans to use proceeds from the sale for schools,
roads, parks and libraries, while another portion may be sold to
refinance debt, depending on the level of  interest rates .  Even with the potential reductions, the extra yield on
Fairfax bonds probably won’t rise from past sales, said Linda Murphy, a muni analyst at T. Rowe Price Group Inc. in Baltimore.  The company, whose  Virginia Tax-Free Bond Fund (PRVAX)  has about $1
billion in assets, may buy bonds from this week’s sale and
wouldn’t need a higher interest rate to do so, she said.  Fairfax general obligations maturing in April 2017 traded
Jan. 3 at an average yield of 0.88 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The interest rate was 0.11 percentage point
higher than benchmark AAAs, the narrowest spread in two months,
Bloomberg Valuation data show.  Residents’ Income  Investor confidence in Fairfax comes in part from its
wealth, Murphy said. The county had a median household income of
about $106,000 in 2011, double the national average, U.S. Census
Bureau data show. The  jobless rate  was 3.8 percent in October,
according to Bureau of Labor Statistics data, compared with 7.9
percent nationally.  Fiscally sound municipalities such as Fairfax have trailed
the $3.7 trillion muni market as the lowest yields in a
generation pushed investors toward riskier issuers.  Top-rated munis earned 4.4 percent in the past 12 months,
about half the gain on the lowest investment-grade debt,
according to Barclays Plc data.  In trading Jan. 4, the  interest rate  on top-rated tax-
exempts due in 10 years was little changed at 1.83 percent,
Bloomberg Valuation data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  