-- Fingerprint Jumps as Japan Expansion Continues: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-01-07T09:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/fingerprint-jumps-as-japan-expansion-continues-stockholm-mover.html
Fingerprint Cards AB (FINGB) , a Swedish maker
of biometric security solutions, rose to the highest level in
more than five years in Stockholm trading after expanding in
 Japan  and saying its order situation there is “promising.”  The shares  rose  as much as 1.6 kronor, or 11 percent, to
16.4 kronor on the Stockholm bourse, their highest level since
July 2007. The stock was up 10 percent as of 10:31 a.m. local
time,  valuing  the company at 701 million kronor ($107 million).
Shares of Fingerprint Cards advanced 33 percent last year,
compared with a 12 percent increase in the Stockholm all-share
index, and have  soared 33 percent  so far this year.  Fingerprint Cards announced three orders from Japanese
mobile phone companies in the fourth quarter of last year alone,
including a deal for fingerprint sensors with an initial volume
of one million phones. The Swedish company generated 99 percent
of its sales in  Asia  last year, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Fingerprint will open a new sales and support office
in  Tokyo  to support demand and named Tan Yuedong as a Senior
Technical Manager.  “We have to support our new customers in Japan, we cannot
just focus on winning orders,” Chief Executive Officer Johan Carlstrom said in a phone interview. “The situation in Japan is
promising for us -- it looks exciting. We’re likely to be even
more successful in Japan this year than last year, as the orders
we took last year will now be built into the product.”  Fingerprint Cards, which produces fingerprint sensor
technology used to verify a person’s identity, forecast full-
year sales of between 130 million kronor and 190 million kronor
on Nov. 29. This compared with 69 million kronor in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Toby Alder at 
 talder@bloomberg.net  