-- Fiscal Fix Should Include Disability Reform
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-07T23:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/fiscal-fix-should-include-disability-reform.html
The conversation in  Washington  is
shifting from taxes to entitlement spending and, in particular,
how to slow the unsustainable  growth  of Social Security and
Medicare.  Central to that discussion should be an overhaul of  Social
Security Disability Insurance , a vital safety-net program for
millions of disabled workers. It has gotten too big and too
costly. Worse, it has shifted the incentive for those with
physical impairments to choose government dependency over work.
Oh, and it will be insolvent in three years if nothing is done.  The program’s $124 billion annual cost is nine times what
it was in 1970. Its ranks have  swollen  to more than 10 million
beneficiaries in 2011, or 4.5 percent of the working-age
population, up from about 1.3 percent in 1970.  Workers who enter the disability system rarely leave. The
Social Security Administration reviews only a tiny fraction of
cases each year to determine which beneficiaries still meet the
eligibility criteria. Rather than help people manage their
disabilities so they can rejoin the labor force, the 1960s-era
program cultivates dependency by guaranteeing health insurance
and an income for life. The surest way to lose benefits is by
getting a job, because monthly income above roughly $1,040
results in  dismissal  from the program.  Employer Incentives  So how did we get here?  Disability rolls have swelled partly because of rising
female labor-force participation. But the numbers also surge
during economic declines, suggesting that some of the jobless
are turning to the more-generous disability program in lieu of
unemployment insurance or other assistance. A 2002  paper  by
three economists showed that disability applications from the
Appalachian coal-mining region increased when energy prices
fell, and companies closed mines and fired workers.  Qualifying for benefits has also gotten easier since 1984,
when Congress  liberalized  the rules by shifting  eligibility  from
a list of specific impairments to consideration of a person’s
medical condition and ability to work. Applicants with multiple
maladies can qualify even if no single condition would meet the
criteria, and symptoms of pain or mental illness are allowable
in lieu of a clear diagnosis.  After the economy weakened in the late 1980s, the number of
beneficiaries doubled from 1989 to 2009. That corresponded with
a rapid increase in claims of musculoskeletal conditions and
mental disorders, which now dominate the list of ailments.  One quick fix is to require the government to conduct more
periodic screening to make sure beneficiaries are still unable
to work. The Social Security Administration  conducted  443,233
full medical reviews in 2011 -- less than 5 percent of all
cases. Budget cuts have sapped funding for the reviews, which
cost about $758 each, and created a backlog of about 1.4 million
cases, according to Bloomberg News.  In fact, the Congressional Budget Office says increasing
the number of disability reviews would lower overall spending,
because some beneficiaries would no longer qualify. Boosting
appropriations by $4 billion over the next decade would reduce
outlays by $12 billion over the same period, according to the
CBO.  A longer-term fix involves shifting incentives toward work
and away from government support. Economists David Autor, of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Mark Duggan, of the
Wharton School at the University of  Pennsylvania , propose that
private disability insurance be extended to the majority of
workers through their employers. The cost to a company would be
tied to the rate at which its employees or, for a small
business, that industry’s workforce, join the disability rolls.  Cost Incentive  Such a requirement would create a cost incentive for
employers to accommodate workers with limited disabilities by
offering vocational rehabilitation, moving workers into less
physically taxing jobs or improving ergonomics when possible. A
private system could also lengthen the waiting period for
government support from the current five months to more than two
years, depending on the policy.  Private insurance could replace as much as 60 percent of a
worker’s income and cover workplace modifications and
rehabilitation. Workers with severe conditions could move
immediately to the federal disability system.  There are potential risks. Employers might be tempted to
discriminate against disabled or older workers (although that
would often violate federal law). Employers might also pass on
the cost of premiums to employees in the form of lower wages,
although the cost is expected to be relatively low, ranging from
$150 to $250 annually, according to the authors.  The idea isn’t as revolutionary as it may sound: Five
states currently require employers to provide  temporary 
disability-insurance benefits. Some plans have been in place
since the 1940s. A similar program in the Netherlands has had
promising results: New disability cases fell 40 percent from
2002 to 2004 and by 50 percent from 2004 through 2006.  For decades, disability insurance has been an important
safety net for the most vulnerable Americans. With entitlement
reform finally on the table, Congress could make a few small
fixes to ensure that the program keeps working for those who
genuinely need it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 