-- Ford to Offer Rhapsody Music Service in 1 Million Autos
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-01-07T13:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/ford-to-offer-rhapsody-music-service-in-1-million-autos.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  will offer Rhapsody
International Inc.’s Internet music service in more than 1
million Ford and Lincoln vehicles, the online company’s first
tie-in with an automaker.  Ford and Rhapsody plan to introduce the service at 4 p.m.
today at the  Consumer Electronics Show  in Las Vegas, according
to an e-mailed statement. Listeners with Ford’s Sync-enabled
cars and trucks can use voice commands and buttons on the
steering wheel to control functions on their smartphones.  With U.S. consumers listening to music most often behind
the wheel, cars are a logical battleground for Web music
services, including  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  Seattle-based Rhapsody
said 40 percent of subscribers use the service while driving.
Voice commands and steering wheel buttons offer a safer way to
run the service on Bluetooth-linked smartphones.  “Our customers see the limitations of terrestrial radio
and Sirius XM satellite radio,” Jon Irwin, president of
Rhapsody, said in an interview. “They want full access to their
music in the car.”  Rhapsody is talking with other automakers about integrating
the service, Irwin said, without being more specific. Pandora,
based in Oakland, California, said in December its service is
available in 75 vehicle models.  Ford Sync is available on the 2013 Fiesta, Mustang,
Expedition, Fusion, F-150, Super Duty, Focus, E-Series and C-
MAX, the company said in the statement. Ford has already
integrated Pandora, Slacker Media Inc.’s web radio and  Clear
Channel Communications Inc. (CCO) ’s iHeartRadio.  More Options  “We want to give customers as many options as we can,”
Elizabeth Halash, AppLink product development engineer for Ford,
said in an interview. “If they’re already a Rhapsody user, they
know the service and use it all the time, we want to allow that
in the car as well and to use it hands-free.”  Closely held Rhapsody also plans to announce today its
service is becoming available on Roku Inc.’s set-top boxes,
Irwin said. In recent months, the company released new apps for
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software and for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox video-game console.  Ford, based in Dearborn, Michigan, rose 0.8 percent to
$13.57 on Jan. 4 in New York. The stock climbed 20 percent in
2012, exceeding the 13 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, which includes Ford.  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s MTV,  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music,  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  own stakes in Rhapsody, Irwin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  