-- Forint Weakens as Hungary Rate Cut Bets Boost Treasury Bill Sale
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-01-07T12:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/forint-weakens-as-hungary-rate-cut-bets-boost-treasury-bill-sale.html
The forint weakened for a second day
and  Hungary  sold more T-bills than planned at an auction today
on speculation the central bank will further cut interest rates
this year.  Hungary’s currency depreciated 0.6 percent to 292.03 per
euro by 12:24 p.m. in Budapest. The Debt Management Agency sold
60 billion forint ($268 million) in six-week bills, 10 billion
forint above target, at an average yield of 5.66 percent. That
compares with a rate of 6.21 percent at the last auction of the
same maturity on Nov. 12, according to the agency’s data
published on Bloomberg.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank, which cut its benchmark rate by a
cumulative 1.25 percentage points in five monthly meetings last
year to 5.75 percent, will trim at least another 100 basis
points this year, derivatives prices show. Government-imposed
energy price cuts this year will provide rate-setters with more
rationale for easing, according to Eszter Gargyan, a Budapest-
based economist at Citigroup Inc.  “The benchmark rate will probably be cut at the next few
Monetary Council meetings,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, an analyst at
Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in a research report today.  The government’s expected appointment in March of a new
central bank president who will use “unconventional” methods
to aid economic growth may also hurt the forint, Arokszallasi
said.  The government, which is forcing energy suppliers to reduce
prices for households by 10 percent from this month, is
considering further cuts, according to Janos Fonagy, state
secretary at the Development Ministry, Nepszabadsag  reported 
Jan. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  