-- France Doubles Solar Target, Seeks to Promote European Equipment
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-01-07T14:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/france-doubles-solar-target-seeks-to-promote-european-equipment.html
France  has doubled its target for new
solar projects to at least 1,000 megawatts in 2013, helping spur
use of European equipment, Energy Minister Delphine Batho said.  “The measures are aimed at restarting the solar sector in
France,” Batho said in a statement. They will encourage
manufacturing and seek to cut an industry trade deficit that
grew to 1.35 billion euros ($1.8 billion) in 2011, she said.  The policies will also generate 2 billion euros in
investment and create or safeguard 10,000 jobs, Batho said.  France, like the U.K. and  Germany , has scaled back support
for renewable energy after incentives led to runaway expansion,
equipment costs fell and economic stagnation curbed financing.
France capped new installations in 2011 under former President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , while his successor  Francois Hollande  vowed to
boost renewables and cut the nation’s reliance on nuclear power.  Under today’s plan, France will start a tender this month
for 400 megawatts of solar power from large-scale roof or ground
installations. Half of those will have to use “innovative
technology” and winners will be announced by March 2014.  The target for home installations measuring less than 1,000
square meters will be doubled to 400 megawatts. The preferential
feed-in tariffs for energy generated from the projects will be
10 percent higher when they use equipment made in  Europe .  Ecological Patriotism  France is pushing “ecological patriotism” to help make
its solar energy competitive and create jobs, Batho said. She
cited a European Commission probe into whether Chinese producers
sell solar panels below cost, and a U.S. decision to impose
duties on cells imported from  China . The annual cost of France’s
measures will be 90 million to 170 million euros, Batho said.  The minister last month announced an increase in the so-
called CSPE tax that pays for renewable and other energy
subsidies. The regulator has said the new level won’t allow
Electricite de France SA, the state-run power provider, to meet
its costs, leaving a shortfall of 2 billion euros this year.  France had about 4,000 megawatts of installed solar
capacity connected to the grid at the end of September, up from
2,950 megawatts at the end of 2011, according to the statement.  The financing of renewable energy subsidies will be part of
a government-led policy debate on energy in coming months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  