-- France Considers Charging Google for Network Capacity
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-01-07T14:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/france-considers-charging-google-for-network-capacity.html
The French government will look into
making Internet companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  pay for the
burden they place on telecommunications networks, Technology
Minister Fleur Pellerin said.  Web companies generate traffic without having to invest in
the infrastructure that carries it, Pellerin said today after
asking local Internet provider  Iliad SA (ILD)  to stop blocking online
advertisements from companies such as Google. Iliad has agreed
to stop blocking online ads for its users, Pellerin said. The
company, founded by French businessman Xavier Niel, had more
than 5.2 million broadband subscribers at the end of  September .  “What solutions do Internet providers have when faced with
content providers who use their networks but don’t invest in
them?” Pellerin said during a press conference in Paris. “We
need to ask serious questions about how Web companies can put
some money into networks.”  Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg and Pellerin will host
a debate on Jan. 15 about these questions, said Pellerin, who
will talk to Google’s executives in  France  before then. Phone
companies are experimenting with business models to generate
more revenue from traffic growth that is putting pressure on
networks. Businesses such as  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and BT Group Plc
are charging some content companies extra for a fast lane on the
Internet.  Isabelle Audap, an Iliad spokeswoman, declined to say why
the company’s Free service had blocked ads or whether the move
was part of the broader debate on making Web companies pay more
for network traffic.  “We have noticed the measures taken by Free and are
currently analyzing the situation,” Anne-Gabrielle Dauba-
Pantanacce, a representative for Google in Paris, said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  