-- Gerard Depardieu's Real Russian Love
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2013-01-07T17:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/gerard-depardieu-s-real-russian-love.html
The bear hugs on the Black Sea didn't mask the irony of the moment. A wealthy
Hollywood actor from France embraces the onetime secret-police agent of the
former  Soviet Union . Who would have thought only 20 years ago that  Gerard
Depardieu  would find refuge in a country once renowned for destroying the hope
of its citizens? "I love your country, Russia -- its people, its history, its writers,'' the
"Green Card'' actor wrote in an  open letter  to Russian President  Vladimir Putin .
Nobody doubted that Depardieu's decision to accept Putin's offer of Russian
citizenship stemmed from French President  Francois Hollande 's plan for a "rich
tax'' of 75 percent for residents earning more than 1 million euros ($1.3
million). The French government has said it intends to revise its draft
legislation after the country's top court struck down the proposed law last
month. Russia's personal  tax rate  is 13 percent for most income, hardly
comparable to Hollande's punishing levy for the rich. Depardieu is just the latest in a series of high-profile figures fleeing the
tsunami of higher taxes engulfing indebted Western nations. Billionaire Facebook
Inc. co-founder Eduardo Saverin  renounced his U.S. citizenship  last year after
taking up residency in Singapore, where the top tax rate is 20 percent. British
Formula 1 driver  Lewis Hamilton  caused a stir last year after he carried the
Olympic torch in London, though he had lived in Switzerland and Monaco since
2007, partly -- by his own admission -- due to taxation. The top rate of income
tax in the U.K. is 50 percent, and the country only provides major tax relief to
those residents not domiciled in the country, a rule that doesn't apply to
natives such as Hamilton. Monaco levies no income tax from its residents. The loss of  tax revenue  from the French actor, and other high-net-worth
individuals who vote with their feet when tax rates climb, is negligible to the
overall cause of replenishing state coffers. Still,  France , the U.S. and the
U.K., which are all struggling to contain public spending and government debt,
should consider whether there is a broader lesson to be learned from their old
Warsaw Pact foes and the tiger economies of Asia on how low taxes can make
economies more dynamic. Hollande's  appeals for patriotism  to expat Frenchmen ring hollow when the
incentive to get ahead financially is undermined by punitive tax rates. Only by
providing an attractive investment environment and the opportunity to keep the
bulk of one's earnings will Western nations finally stem the outflow of citizens
who are supposed to be their best, brightest and most admired. (David Henry is a Frankfurt-based editor for Bloomberg View.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .