-- Germany Added Record Solar Panels in 2012 Even as Subsidies Cut
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-01-07T12:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/germany-added-record-solar-panels-in-2012-even-as-subsidies-cut.html
Renewable-energy developers in
 Germany , the world’s biggest solar market, added a record number
of panels last year even after subsidies were cut back.  Solar installations climbed to 7,634 megawatts, up 2
percent from 7,485 megawatts in 2011, according to figures from
the Bundesnetzagentur grid regulator and the  Environment
Ministry . That was more than double the government’s maximum
target of 3,500 megawatts.  Fourth-quarter installations, which fell 66 percent
compared with the previous year, show that the new system of
reduced subsidies that took full effect from October is working,
said Ingo Strube, a spokesman for the Environment Ministry in
Berlin.  “More than 80 percent of installations came in the first
nine months,” he said today by phone. Environment Minister
 Peter Altmaier  expects developers to add 4,000 megawatts to
4,500 megawatts this year, Strube said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has cut solar-power subsidies to
reduce the burden on consumer electricity bills of Germany’s
renewable-energy expansion. Still, the above-market tariffs
remain at levels that allow developers to profit, while
component prices have continued to drop amid an oversupply.  The German state of Saxony plans to present a proposal to
reform the country’s clean-energy subsidy system to the upper
house of parliament by the end of this month, German newspaper
Die Welt said, citing a draft bill. The proposal, which would
require utilities to source a certain percentage of their power
from renewables, follows the Swedish quota model and seeks to
reduce the cost of the renewable expansion by favoring more
efficient sources, the newspaper said.  Altmaier plans to propose changes to the system in March to
prevent a voter backlash against rising energy costs before an
election in the autumn. Subsidies this year will amount to about
20.4 billion euros ($27 billion), paid for through consumers’
power bills, according to the country’s four main grid
operators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  