-- German Stocks Decline Amid U.S. Budget Deficit Concerns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-01-07T17:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/german-stocks-decline-amid-u-s-budget-deficit-concerns.html
German stocks  declined as continuing
concern that the U.S. budget deal won’t reduce the fiscal
deficit quickly enough offset gains in lenders after central
banks eased a liquidity rule at a meeting in  Switzerland .  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  fell 2.2 percent as Bank of
America Corp. downgraded the stock.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  rose 2.8 percent and 4.2 percent, respectively,
after global central bank chiefs agreed to water down and delay
a planned bank-liquidity regulation.  The  DAX (DAX)  lost 0.6 percent to 7,732.66 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt. The gauge has still gained 1.6 percent
this year as U.S. lawmakers struck a New Year deal to prevent
most scheduled tax increases and delay spending cuts in the
world’s largest economy. The broader HDAX Index dropped 0.5
percent today.  “Everyone was hoping that they would find a proper
solution before the year-end,” Guillermo Hernandez Sampere,
head of trading at Fpm Frankfurt Performance Mgmt AG, who helps
manage about 500 million euros ($652 million), said, referring
to the U.S. budget discussions. “What they have done is to buy
more time. We have not received the solution that the market was
looking for.”  Republicans are planning to use the need to raise America’s
$16.4 trillion debt ceiling to force President  Barack Obama  to
accept spending cuts to entitlement programs such as Medicare.
Congress must act as early as mid-February to prevent a default.  Basel Meeting  Global central bank chiefs agreed to ease bank liquidity
rules to counter warnings that the plan would strangle lending
and stifle the economic recovery.  Lenders will be allowed to use an expanded range of assets
including some equities and securitized mortgage debt to meet
the so-called liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, following a deal
struck by regulatory chiefs meeting yesterday in Basel,
Switzerland. Banks will also have an extra four years to fully
comply with the measure.  Infineon Technologies,  Europe ’s second-largest
semiconductor manufacturer, lost 2.2 percent to 6.43 euros. Bank
of America cut its recommendation on the shares to underperform,
the equivalent of a sell rating, from neutral, saying they were
fully valued.  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest utility, lost 3 percent to
30.94 euros as HSBC Holdings Plc. downgraded the stock to
neutral from overweight.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the world’s second-biggest carmaker,
retreated 1.6 percent to 175.95 euros as Citigroup Inc.
downgraded the stock to neutral from buy, citing declining
German demand.  Air Berlin  Air Berlin Plc fell 3.7 percent to 1.50 euros. Germany’s
second-largest airline named Wolfgang Prock-Schauer, the
company’s head of strategy, to succeed Hartmut Mehdorn as chief
executive officer, ending a 16-month period of transitional
leadership.  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, Germany’s two biggest
lenders, added 2.8 percent to 35.78 euros, and 4.2 percent to
1.58 euros, respectively.  “The financial industry continues to shift into the focus
of investors,” Roger Peeters, chief executive officer at Close
Brothers Seydler Research in Frankfurt, wrote in a note. “The
plans of regulators to ease the liquidity rules for the banking
industry should give the whole sector some tailwind at the
beginning of the week.”  Evotec AG (EVT)  gained 1.1 percent to 2.77 euros. The drug
research and development company said it expanded its
collaboration with MedImmune, the global biologics arm of
AstraZeneca, after reaching a milestone and obtaining an
associated 500,000-euros payment.  Daimler Stake  Daimler AG advanced 1 percent to 43.06 euros, its highest
price in nine months, after state-run Chinese newspaper People’s
Daily reported the country’s sovereign-wealth fund may buy a
stake in the world’s third-biggest maker of luxury cars.  China Investment Corp. may acquire a holding of 4 percent
to 10 percent in Daimler, the People’s Daily said on its website
today, citing an unidentified Internet posting.  Dow Jones Newswires reported that CIC is not in talks to
buy a stake in the carmaker, citing unnamed people.  Solarworld AG surged 19 percent to 1.66 euros. Germany’s
biggest solar-panel maker has climbed 53 percent since  Warren
Buffett ’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. on Jan. 2 said it
would invest as much as $2.5 billion in two solar projects in
 California .  The shares are benefiting from Buffett’s vote of confidence
in the industry, said Erkan Aycicek, an analyst at Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg AG.  Renewable-energy developers in Germany, the world’s biggest
solar market, added a record number of panels last year even
after subsidies were cut back.  Solar installations climbed to 7,634 megawatts, up 2
percent from 7,485 megawatts in 2011, according to data today
from the Bundesnetzagentur grid regulator and the  Environment
Ministry . That was more than double the government’s maximum
target of 3,500 megawatts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  