-- Goldman Plans IPO of German Homes Unit With $6.1 Billion
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-01-07T16:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/goldman-plans-ipo-of-german-homes-unit-with-6-1-billion-assets.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the bank
that sold its stake in  Germany ’s largest department store last
month, plans to sell shares in a unit that owns homes valued at
4.7 billion euros ($6.1 billion) in the country.  An initial public offering of LEG Immobilien GmbH is
planned for the first half, LEG said in a statement today. The
sale may raise as much as 1 billion euros, said two people with
knowledge of the plan. Another person familiar with the IPO said
it will probably take place in early February. Both people asked
not to be identified because the matter is private.  LEG would be Germany’s biggest property IPO if it raises 1
billion euros. The Dusseldorf-based landlord owns 91,000
apartments in North Rhine Westphalia, Germany’s most populous
state. Goldman Sachs’ Whitehall Street Real Estate fund holds
about 95 percent of the company.  “The fundamentals for the segment are very good,” said
Thomas Martin, an analyst at  HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG. (TUB) 
“Because some of their competitors are trading expensively,
this could be an interesting way for stock investors to get
in.”  Baubecon Bid  Goldman Sachs is one of the most active foreign investors
in German property. In April 2011, Whitehall Street and Cerberus
Capital Management LP raised 468 million euros in an IPO of
Berlin-based residential landlord GSW Immobilien AG. Whitehall
Street also made an unsuccessful bid to buy Baubecon, the
residential property portfolio that  Barclays Plc (BARC)  agreed to sell
to Deutsche Wohnen AG in May in a deal valued at 1.24 billion
euros.  Goldman Sachs and LEG co-owner Perry Capital, which bought
the company from the state government for about 3.5 billion
euros in 2008, are seeking to profit from a boom in German
residential real estate. The FTSE EPRA/Nareit index of  German
property stocks  has gained 42 percent in the past 12 months.  Goldman Sachs and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  will be lead managers
and bookrunners for the IPO.  Deutsche Annington Immobilien GmbH, Germany’s largest owner
of apartments, also plans an IPO this year. Annington, which has
186,000 apartments, is controlled by Guy Hands’ Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd.  Whitehall Street agreed to sell its stake in 17 German
department stores, including Kaufhaus des Westens, the country’s
largest, in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  