-- Google Officials Arrive in N. Korea on Trip U.S. Opposed
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-01-08T01:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/google-s-schmidt-richardson-on-way-to-north-korea-mbc.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt  and
ex-New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson arrived in North Korea on
a visit that the U.S. said runs contrary to efforts to punish
the totalitarian state for last month’s long-range rocket test.  The “Google delegation” flew into the capital Pyongyang,
the official Korean Central News Agency said yesterday in a one-
line dispatch. The group, which includes Google Ideas Director
Jared Cohen, is on a “private humanitarian mission” that seeks
to meet with a detained U.S. citizen, Richardson said Jan. 5.  State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland yesterday
reiterated her criticism of the visit as “ill-advised” given
the regime’s December rocket launch in defiance of global
opposition. The  United Nations Security Council  condemned the
North for violating its prohibition on ballistic missile tests
and some Western countries are pushing to expand UN sanctions.  Schmidt is traveling as a U.S. citizen interested in
foreign affairs and wants to understand some of  North Korea ’s
economic issues and “the social media aspect,” Richardson told
the Associated Press yesterday without elaborating. North Korean
leader Kim Jong Un said in a New Year’s address last week that
improving the economy is the government’s top priority.  “We’re not representing the State Department, so they
shouldn’t be that nervous,” Richardson  said  Jan. 4 on “CBS
This Morning.”  North Korea confirmed last month it had detained a U.S.
citizen it identified as Pae Jun Ho after he entered the country
in November to lead a tour. The man confessed to committing a
crime after entering Nov. 3, KCNA reported, without specifying
the crime.  Release Doubts  Richardson, a former U.S. ambassador to the UN who has led
unofficial diplomatic missions in the past, said he and Schmidt
were going there in part to seek the man’s release. While he has
been dealing with North Korea for 15 years, Richardson told the
AP that he doubted the delegation will be able to bring the
Korean-American home “on this trip.”  The group will meet with political, economic and military
leaders and tour some universities, Richardson said.  Google doesn’t comment on personal trips by company
executives, Google Korea spokeswoman Lois Kim said on Jan. 3.
The company’s stock fell 0.4 percent yesterday to close at
$734.75 in  New York .  In 2010, former President  Jimmy Carter  traveled to North
Korea to win the release of an imprisoned American who had been
sentenced to eight years of hard labor for illegal entry. Former
President  Bill Clinton  in August 2009 flew to Pyongyang and
secured the release of two American journalists detained for
illegally crossing the border between  China  and North Korea.
Unlike Carter, Clinton met with then-leader  Kim Jong Il .  State Ideology  North Korea has long sealed itself off from the world, with
an official state ideology of juche, or self-reliance, and a
narrative that pits a resilient regime against a hostile world.  While the authoritarian regime has increasingly called for
greater openness toward using modern technologies such as the
Internet, few elites among the country’s 24 million have access
to the Web. The regime offers an intranet service only, and
heavily censors any flow of information to and from the outside
world.  Richardson will give a press conference at  Beijing airport 
on Jan. 10, his office said Jan. 5.  Schmidt’s daughter Sophie is also traveling with the nine-
person delegation on the four-day trip, South Korean broadcaster
MBC reported Jan. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  