-- Google Patent Offers Probably Won’t End Microsoft Suit
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-01-07T18:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/google-patent-offers-probably-won-t-end-microsoft-apple-suits.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s requirement to make new
patent-licensing offers to Apple Inc. and  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. under
its settlement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission probably
won’t resolve lawsuits among the technology giants, according to
patent lawyers.  Last week’s agreement requires Google to offer competitors
“fair and reasonable” terms for using its patents included in
industrywide standards for smartphones, tablet computers and
other electronic devices, and to give them time to respond.  Microsoft and Apple rejected earlier royalty demands,
accused Google’s Motorola Mobility unit of misusing its patents,
complained to U.S. and European regulators and filed breach-of-
contract suits in federal court.  “It’s going to be a more reasonable offer than last time -
- I’m not sure it’s going to be perfectly reasonable,” said
patent lawyer Robert Stoll of Drinker Biddle in Washington,
who’s not involved in the disputes. “You might see further
activity by the FTC if they think Google is not acting in good
faith.”  The global litigation has become central to shaping the
worldwide market for mobile devices, which includes phones,
tablets and e-readers, that reached $436 billion last year and
is projected to almost double to $847 billion by 2016, according
to  Carl Howe , an analyst with  Yankee Group .  Patent Abuse  The FTC agreement resolved claims that Motorola Mobility,
which Google bought for $12.4 billion last year, abused patents
essential to industry standards to extract higher royalties.
Industry-standard technology helps ensure products such as
mobile phones can operate together when made by different
manufacturers, meaning companies making those products must
conform with the standards.  Under the FTC settlement, Google can’t try to block sales
or imports of competitors’ products during the license-offer
process and must report to the FTC on steps it’s taken to
comply.  In a filing with the U.S. International Trade Commission
today, Microsoft said that means Google must drop two video-
coding patents from a case in which it seeks to block imports of
the Xbox gaming system. The third patent, for a way to establish
communication between the Xbox and accessories, doesn’t relate
to any industry norm, so wouldn’t be affected by the FTC
agreement.  “As a result of the settlement Motorola and Google have
entered with the FTC, Microsoft expects that Motorola will
immediately dismiss from this investigation its claims” related
to the two patents, Microsoft said in the filing.  Wireless Claims  The commission already has cleared  Apple (AAPL)  of claims it
infringed Motorola Mobility patents for wireless technology.  Making offers to appease the FTC, and European regulators
who are investigating Google’s practices, may not be enough to
stop the litigation among the companies, said James Kulbaski, a
patent lawyer with Oblon Spivak in Alexandria,  Virginia , who’s
not involved in the cases.  Microsoft, which said the FTC agreement does little to
resolve issues it raised over Google’s business practices,
probably will decide it would rather wait to hear from a federal
judge in  Seattle  who is considering what the appropriate royalty
should be, he said. Apple, in a different case, has told a judge
in  Wisconsin  that it won’t pay Motorola Mobility more than $1
per handset.  Apple also is trying to get Motorola Mobility and other
makers of phones that use Google’s Android operating system to
stop what it calls copying of the iPhone.  ‘Clear Rules’  “It takes two entities to reach a settlement and Apple has
made clear they are doing everything they can to seek every
possible remedy,” Kulbaski said. “If Apple’s not willing to
settle, there can’t be a global settlement.”  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, said the
Cupertino, California-based company had no comment.  The agreement doesn’t require  Mountain View , California-
based Google to drop lawsuits where it is seeking cash damages.
Nor is it precluded from trying to block imports or sales of
competitors’ products after taking the steps required by the
FTC, including an offer of binding arbitration on issues that
can’t be resolved through negotiations.  The agreement “establishes clear rules of the road for
standards essential patents going forward,” Google said in a
 statement .  Thwarting Competition  At issue are Motorola Mobility patents related to technical
standards on things like wireless transmissions and video
decoding, a legacy of the company’s history as a mobile-phone
pioneer. As one of the companies that helped establish
specifications for how the phones operate, Motorola Mobility
pledged to license any relevant patents on fair terms to anyone
who asked.  It demanded royalties equal to 2.25 percent of the retail
prices of products and devices including Microsoft’s Xbox and
Apple’s iPhone. Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said that
would amount to $4 billion a year, a figure Motorola Mobility
disputed. Motorola Mobility lowered the offer in June, to what
Microsoft said was still unreasonable.  Because companies that participate in standard-setting
groups have an advantage in getting their technology adopted,
the FTC and European Commission have argued standard-setters
shouldn’t be allowed to use those patents to thwart competition.
A patent gives its owner the right to exclude others from using
the invention.  Judges in Seattle and  Chicago  have said Motorola Mobility
isn’t entitled to orders halting U.S. sales of products based on
the use of standard-essential patents. The ITC, which has the
power to block imports, is considering similar rules.  Court Bans  Microsoft and Apple pledged not to seek court bans based on
standard-essential patents to help gain Justice Department
clearance to join a group that bought Nortel Networks Corp.
patents in July 2011 for $4.5 billion. Apple, in a patent fight
with  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  that was settled in 2011, argued against the
Finnish company’s use of standard-essential patents in the
dispute.  Google, while seeking regulatory approval to buy Motorola
Mobility, said it would continue the handset maker’s policy of
not seeking sales bans as long as licensing negotiations were
under way. The FTC agreement requires Motorola Mobility to take
extra steps to resolve royalty disputes.  ‘Less Relief’  “Google is saying the same thing they said in February,
but with some more limitations,” said Jorge Contreras, an
associate law professor at American University in Washington.
“It still can go around and monetize the patents, but at the
end of the day that’s not what Google bought them for. They
didn’t buy them for a revenue stream as much as a defensive
measure.”  Microsoft Deputy General Counsel Dave Heiner, in a blog
posting, criticized the FTC for not going far enough on the
licensing question, Google’s practices related to its core
search business, or other issues on review by the agency.  “We are disappointed that the FTC accepted less relief
from Google than the DOJ obtained from Microsoft and Apple last
year,” Heiner said. “The good news is that other antitrust
agencies, within the  United States  and overseas, are still
examining Google’s conduct.”  Samsung Electronics Co., which is facing an antitrust
complaint by European regulators, dropped efforts to block sales
of Apple products in  Europe  based on infringement claims related
to standard-essential patents. In an ITC filing, Apple argued
Samsung should do the same thing in the U.S.  Stoll, the Drinker Biddle patent lawyer, said the FTC
agreement with Google is “very confusing” and has “a lot of
holes.” Still, he said, it could be a good first step in
setting rules on how to handle standard-essential patents.  “The FTC is trying, but I think they need more
specificity, more engagement,” Stoll said. “A few more of
these and they can hone something with more structure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  