-- IDB Holding Bonds Drop Most in 2 Weeks as Holders Reject Deal
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-01-07T15:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/idb-holding-bonds-drop-most-in-2-weeks-as-holders-reject-deal.html
IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH) ’s bonds fell,
pushing the yields up the most in two weeks, as bondholders said
they rejected a debt settlement proposal from the company.  The yield on IDB’s 5.1 percent bonds due December 2020
soared 140 basis points, or 1.4 percentage point, to 57.31
percent, the biggest gain since Dec. 24, at the close in Tel
Aviv. The  shares  dropped 2.7 percent to 11.29 shekels.  “IDB Holding’s proposal for a debt settlement is
unacceptable and very far from fair,” Eran Yoels, a spokesman
for IDB Holding bond trustees, said today by phone. “We call on
the company to come to the negotiating table with a very
different pattern of thought.”  Yoels declined to reveal the settlement proposed but said
IDB owes bondholders 1.7 billion shekels. Calcalist reported
today that IDB Holding is asking institutional investors to
approve delays of between 5 years and 15 years in bond principal
payments. The company owes about 2 billion shekels to banks and
bondholders, according to company data.  “We are conducting a continuous, fair and open dialogue
with the bondholders representation with the aim to work
together for the joint interest of bondholders and the
company,” IDB Holding said today in an e-mailed statement.
“The company has offered a detailed framework for the
strengthening of the capital structure.”  IDB shares plunged 74 percent in 2012 as controlling
shareholder Nochi Dankner sold assets and raised funds to try to
meet debt commitments. Standard & Poor’s Maalot in December cut
the holding company’s debt rating to default.  In August, IDB sold a unit of Tel Aviv-based  Clal Insurance
Enterprises Holdings Ltd. (CLIS)  to  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
for $221 million. Argentinian businessman Eduardo Elsztain
agreed in September to pay $25 million for 10 percent of IDB’s
parent company Ganden Holdings Ltd., with the option of
investing another $75 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  