-- Higher-Cost Breast Screening Doesn’t Detect More Cancers
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-01-07T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/higher-cost-breast-screening-doesn-t-detect-more-cancers.html
More advanced and costlier breast
cancer screenings don’t always result in better detection of the
disease in women ages 66 and older, a Yale University study
found.  Medicare, the U.S. health insurance program for the elderly
and disabled, spends about $1.08 billion a year on breast
screenings and follow-up tests, almost as much as the $1.36
billion spent to treat the disease, according to research
published today in  JAMA Internal Medicine . The study found no
relation between expenditures and detection of advanced cancers.  The study, the first to compile national estimates for
screening expenditures, showed tests were twice as expensive in
certain regions than in others. Results suggest more research is
needed to identify which patients need screening and how to test
more effectively, said  Cary Gross , a lead study author.  “The fact that we are facing such severe budget
constraints as a nation and the fact that Medicare is such a
major expense in the  federal budget , our findings really
reinforce the imperative to clarify how we’re spending our
scarce Medicare dollars on cancer screening and to make sure
we’re using them effectively,” Gross, an associate professor of
medicine at Yale University in New Haven,  Connecticut , said in a
Jan. 4 telephone interview. “This certainly does not close the
door on mammography in older women. My hope is these data will
be used to reinforce the need for further research on how we
screen for breast cancer.”  Screening Costs  Researchers determined Medicare costs in 2006 and 2007, the
latest years data was available, for mammograms and treatment in
137,274 women ages 66 to 100 who didn’t have the disease. They
also looked at expenditures by region of the U.S.  They found that the average cost for screening per
beneficiary was $63, while the mean cost of initial treatment
was $16,600. In some regions, the cost of screening was as high
as $110 per female Medicare recipient and most of the higher
cost was because of newer, more expensive screening
technologies, the study said.  For those areas where screening expenses were highest,
there was no increased detection of advanced cancers or a
corresponding reduction in treatment costs, Gross said. Women in
the higher-spending areas were more often diagnosed with early
breast cancer, which Gross said could lead to unnecessary
treatment as not all of those cancers would harm an older woman
in her lifetime.  Testing Guidelines  The  U.S. Preventive Services Task Force , an independent
medical advisory group to the government, in 2009 recommended
against routine mammograms for women ages 40 to 49 who aren’t at
an increased risk for breast cancer, while suggesting a
mammogram once every two years for those 50 to 74. The American
Cancer Society suggests annual  mammograms  starting at 40.  Jeanne Mandelblatt , who wrote an accompanying editorial,
said there’s no evidence suggesting that the newest technology
with its higher costs benefits older women. That’s because the
newer equipment is designed to provide a better look at dense
breasts found more commonly in women before menopause. More
studies are needed to look at whether this technology is useful
for older women and a good buy for Medicare, she said.  “We need to advocate for more research in the older
population so that women and men can have answers when they ask,
‘Is this going to harm me? Is this going to help me?,’”
Mandelblatt, associate director for Population Sciences at the
Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center and a professor of oncology
at Georgetown University in  Washington , said in a Jan. 4
telephone interview.  Policy makers “need to examine evidence and attempt to
apply the evidence in a more personalized manner in the Medicare
program,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  