-- Illinois Pension Fix Fading as Governor Warns of Failure
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-01-08T17:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/illinois-employee-pension-payments-increase-under-house-bill-1-.html
The prospects of Illinois lawmakers
resolving a $97 billion unfunded pension liability dimmed as the
House adjourned yesterday without any clear indication that a
majority would support a bill making state employees and
teachers pay more for their retirement benefits.  With the current legislative session set to end tomorrow,
the obstacles facing a pension overhaul mounted as the Senate
gave no sign that it would return to act on any retirement
legislation, if it were to pass the  House of Representatives .  “We cannot allow the Illinois economy to be held hostage
by political timidity,” Democratic Governor Pat Quinn said
today at a news conference in Springfield, the state capital.  “It’s the time to do it,” Quinn added. “If we don’t do
it today, when do we do it?”  The answer, as has often been the case in Illinois, appears
to be later. The House adjourned yesterday after one of its
committees approved a measure over the objections of unions and
other critics who said forcing state workers to pay more would
violate the Illinois constitution.  “I think the clock is ticking, and it’s going to be
challenging,” said Representative Elaine Nekritz, a Northbrook
Democrat and co-sponsor of the bill.  More Work  Nekritz said she and the bill’s supporters “still had
quite a bit of work to do” to round up the votes to get the
measure through the House.  “Everyone gets that something has to change,” she added.
“It’s just a question of coming to consensus on what that
change is.”  Illinois has the  weakest  pension system in the U.S., with
39 percent funding for five major groups of public employees,
according to the Civic Federation, a Chicago-based nonprofit
research group. Lawmakers have repeatedly failed to overcome
political obstacles to fixing the system.  The measure before the House would require employees to pay
an additional 2 percent of their salaries. It also would delay
annual cost-of-living increases by six years, until age 67, for
retirees. A coalition of Illinois unions has pledged to
challenge the bill in court if it’s signed into law.  Unions representing teachers and state employees said their
members are suffering from the legislature’s failure to fund the
systems adequately.  Tea Party  “They’re taking the  Tea Party  approach -- let’s just cut,
cut, cut,” said Henry Bayer, executive director of the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Council 31,
a union representing public employees.  State pension requirements are consuming an increasing
portion of annual spending. Illinois devoted $5.7 billion to
retirement funding this year and is scheduled to pay $6.7
billion in the next budget year, squeezing other services and
programs.  The state Senate approved a more limited pension
restructuring last year that doesn’t mandate higher
contributions. Senate President John Cullerton has said the
House approach “most likely violates” the constitution,
Rikeesha Phelon, a Cullerton spokeswoman, said yesterday.  During a hearing on her bill, Nekritz said the  Illinois 
Supreme Court “will be the final arbiter on that decision” and
said the “time is now to end the excuses and say ‘yes’ to
reform of our pension systems.”  Quinn Support  Quinn has said he would sign the bill if it reached his
desk. Quinn, 63, said on Dec. 10 that the battle to control
employee pension costs “is our fiscal cliff and we need to deal
with it” or analysts will lower the state’s credit rating
again.  The governor told reporters during a breakfast meeting at
Bloomberg’s Chicago bureau that there’s “a clear and present
danger” of another downgrade if state lawmakers don’t
restructure the pension system.  Four months ago,  Standard & Poor’s  cut the state’s credit
one level to A, sixth highest, citing retiree costs, and gave it
a negative outlook, an indication that another downgrade may
occur. Only  California , ranked A-, has a weaker rating among
U.S. states.  The Civic Federation showed the combined funded ratio of
the state’s five pensions fell to 39 percent as of June 30, from
43 percent at the end of fiscal 2011. No other state’s ratio was
below 50 percent in that year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  