-- Illumina Falls as Roche Drops Deal to Buy U.S. Company
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-07T21:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/illumina-falls-as-roche-drops-deal-to-buy-u-s-company.html
Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , a U.S. maker of DNA
sequencing equipment, fell the most in 15 months after  Roche
Holding AG (ROG)  indicated it may no longer be interested in buying
the company.  Illumina declined 7.1 percent to $50.90 at the close of  New
York  trading, its biggest one-day drop since Oct. 7, 2011. The
Illumina deal that has been in the works for a year is no more,
Roche Chairman Franz Humer told the Swiss newspaper
SonntagsZeitung.  “Illumina is definitively off the table,” Humer told the
newspaper. “The other side wasn’t ready to retreat from their
totally excessive price demands. Roche doesn’t do acquisitions
that don’t create added value. We have self-discipline.”  Illumina rejected Roche’s $44.50-a-share hostile bid in
January 2012 as well as a sweetened, $51-a-share proposal.
Basel, Switzerland-based Roche walked away after investors held
out for an even higher offer. L’Agefi, a Swiss newspaper,
reported last month that the companies had agreed to a $66-a-
share deal.  “We do not believe this precludes Roche from returning to
Illumina as a targeted asset in the future and does not diminish
its attractiveness as a potential M&A target,”  Ross Muken , a
New York-based analyst for ISI Group LLC, wrote in a note to
investors late yesterday.  Verinata Acquisition  Alexander Klauser , a spokesman for Roche, confirmed Humer’s
comments. Laura Trotter, Illumina’s director of corporate
marketing, said in an e-mail that the company had no comment on
Roche.  Earlier today, Illumina said it agreed to acquire closely
held Verinata Health Inc., a  Redwood City , California-based
provider of tests for abnormalities in fetal chromosomes, for
$350 million plus as much as $100 million in potential milestone
payments. With the acquisition, Illumina will gain what it calls
the broadest non-invasive prenatal test available for high-risk
pregnancies.  Illumina makes machines that can provide a full transcript
of a person’s DNA, information used to diagnose rare disease,
identify the risk for a genetic condition, or match cancer
treatments to patients’ tumors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  