-- Imax Gains as ‘Hobbit’ Boosts JPMorgan Forecast
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-01-07T21:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/imax-gains-as-hobbit-boosts-jpmorgan-forecast-toronto-mover.html
Imax Corp. (IMAX)  rose to its highest price
in more than five months after JPMorgan Chase & Co. boosted its
sales and profit forecasts on higher-than-expected audience
turnout for 3-D films such as “The Hobbit.”  Imax  gained  5.4 percent in Toronto to C$23.75, the highest
price since July 25. It was also the biggest gain since Oct. 11
for the Mississauga, Ontario-based company.  “The Hobbit,” a prequel to  Peter Jackson ’s “Lord of the
Rings” saga, grossed $46 million for Imax in December and
continues to perform well in January, said Townsend Buckles, a
JPMorgan analyst in New York, in a research note dated today. He
raised his expectations for Imax’s fourth-quarter box office
receipts to $146 million from $130 million and for adjusted
earnings to 18 cents a share from 17 cents.  “The Imax experience continues to be very engaging for
theatergoers,” said  Paul Sweeney , a media analyst with
Bloomberg Industries, in a telephone interview from Skillman,
 New Jersey . “Although the outlook for 3-D films may have
sobered up in 2012, Imax remains very robust.”  According to Sweeney, 3-D now accounts for about 45 percent
to 50 percent of a given film’s box-office receipts, less than
industry analysts had expected since the technology regained
popularity with  James Cameron ’s 2009 blockbuster “Avatar.”  Imax has placed its theaters in city areas with
demographics that can afford the premium price, as well as
expansion into developing markets, especially  Brazil , Sweeney
said.  Strong Profits  Imax’s growth in  emerging markets  and its slate of
blockbuster movies will make profits “strong” this year and
next, Buckles said in his note. He didn’t immediately return a
phone message.  The film industry’s box-office growth in 2012 is expected
to continue this year, Sweeney said. Domestic box-office
receipts rose 6.1 percent in 2012 to $10.8 billion, the first
year-over-year increase since 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Imax Chief Executive Officer Richard Gelfond wasn’t
immediately available for an interview, said Whit Clay, a
company spokesman who works for Sloane & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  