-- India Lowers Forecast for Wireless-Company Levy, Official Says
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   S a n t o s h   K u m a r
-- 2013-01-07T11:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/india-lowers-forecast-for-wireless-company-levy-official-says.html
India  lowered the amount it expects
to collect from a levy on mobile-phone operators by as much as
110 billion rupees ($2 billion), a government official said
after prices in the next spectrum auction were reduced.  The telecommunications ministry may raise only 200 billion
rupees from the charge to be imposed on carriers within two
weeks, said the official, who declined to be identified because
of state rules. The ministry previously expected to generate 310
billion rupees from the one-time fee, which was announced in
November following an investigation into low sale prices that
led to the jailing of a former minister.  The government also today reduced minimum prices in a sale
of second-generation spectrum by 30 percent after failing to
find buyers in a November auction. The government was seeking to
raise at least 700 billion rupees from spectrum sales and the
one-time fee this fiscal year to help pare a  budget deficit .  “The discount is helpful,” Rajan Mathews, director
general of the Cellular Operators Association of India, an
industry group, told Bloomberg Television India. “But is it
adequate enough to generate the kind of participation the
government is hoping for? That’s a big question.”  India’s mobile operators have combined debts of $23
billion, according to the group, whose members include  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s local unit and  Idea Cellular
Ltd. (IDEA)   March Auction  The levy likely will raise less money because it is tied to
the sale prices of the airwaves, said Daryl Philip, an analyst
with Mumbai-based Finquest Securities Pvt.  “Their expectations have dropped mainly because of the
drop in reserve price,” Philip said.  The auction for the 1,800 MHz second-generation phone
spectrum in four markets, including  New Delhi  and  Mumbai , will
start March 11, Telecom Minister  Kapil Sibal  told reporters in
New Delhi. The country also will sell 800 MHz and 900 MHz
spectrum by the end of March, he said.  A group of ministers recommended a 30 percent price cut
last month after about 70 percent of airwaves on sale in
November went unsold. That auction raised 94.1 billion rupees,
less than 25 percent of the amount the government wants to raise
from spectrum sales this fiscal year.  The cabinet may decide this month on the minimum price for
the 800 MHz sale, Sibal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  