-- India’s Nifty Futures Rise, Signaling Equities to Extend Rally
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-01-07T02:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/india-s-nifty-futures-rise-signaling-equities-to-extend-rally.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures rose,
indicating equities will extend the biggest weekly rally in five
weeks.  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures  for January delivery gained
0.1 percent to 6,051, at 10:26 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying
S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index rose 0.1 percent to 6,016.15 on Jan. 4. The
BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, added 0.1 percent to
19,784.08. Both gauges closed at two-year highs. The Bank of  New
York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares sank 0.6
percent from a three-month high.  The Sensex climbed 1.7 percent last week, the most since
the period ended Dec. 2, as a private survey showed Indian
manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in six months in
December and after U.S. lawmakers passed a bill averting tax
increases and spending cuts. The gauge’s  valuation  has risen to
15.6 times estimated profit, the highest level since March.  “Economic reforms in the country and positive global cues
have all aided in lifting market sentiment,” Nidhi Sarswat, a
senior research analyst at Bonanza Portfolio Ltd., wrote in an
e-mailed note on Jan. 4. “The Nifty has broken the resistance
level of 5,965 and also closed above the 6,000 mark, which is a
positive indicator.”  The Sensex rallied 26 percent in 2012, its  biggest annual
gain  since 2009, as government measures to bolster an  economy 
growing at the slowest pace in three years accelerated foreign
inflows. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  began announcing in
September measures including raising diesel prices and allowing
more foreign investment in the retail and airline industries.  Bank Upgrades  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB)  and Punjab National Bank may move after BNP
Paribas SA upgraded the lenders to buy from hold. The brokerage
raised its outlook on Indian banks to improving from neutral,
citing government policy reforms and the possibility of lower
 interest rates , according to a report dated Jan. 4.  The policies propelled foreign inflows into local shares to
a net $24.5 billion last year, the highest among 10 Asian
markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding China. Foreign funds
bought a net $265 million worth of Indian shares on Jan. 3,
taking total inflows for the first three days of 2013 to $670
million, data from the market regulator show.  The slowdown in economic growth may have bottomed out, C. Rangarajan, chairman of Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory
Council, said in  New Delhi  on Jan. 5. India’s current account
deficit remains high and the country needs to cut inflation to
acceptable levels, he said.  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , India’s biggest sport-utility
vehicle maker, may move after it unveiled two motorcycle models
as the company prepares to reenter the market.  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) ,
the nation’s largest refiner, may be active after saying over
the weekend that two workers died in a fire at a gasoline tank
in Gujarat state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  