-- Intel Unveils Technology Targeting Mobile Device Shift
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-01-07T22:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/intel-to-show-off-technology-aimed-at-turning-back-mobile-tide.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, unveiled chips and technology designed to
help it benefit from the shift to smartphones and tablets, away
from personal computers.  Executives introduced an Atom processor targeting low-cost
smartphone manufacturers and power-sipping Core series chips for
tablets and laptops at the  Consumer Electronics Show  in Las
Vegas. The company also outlined a product that offers the
ability to view video on multiple screens in homes.  Intel is stepping up efforts to help it compete in the
mobile market as investors bet that  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  is better
placed to capture growth. The San Diego-based company last year
surpassed Intel for the first time to become the largest
chipmaker by market value. While Qualcomm  increased sales  28
percent in its last fiscal year, Intel is estimated to have
suffered its first  annual decline  in three years.  “You haven’t seen Intel or Qualcomm trade market share
yet, but you’ve definitely seen the mobile area encroach on
traditional PCs,” said Patrick Wang, a New York-based analyst
at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)   Intel also outlined plans to introduce a so-called quad-
core version of its tablet chip lineup, code-named Bay Trail,
which will be available in devices for the end-of-year  holiday
shopping season . The chip will feature four processors built
into one piece of silicon, according to Vice President Mike Bell.  Emerging Markets  In addition, Intel, based in  Santa Clara , California, has
developed phone reference designs based on its new Lexington
chip for areas of the world where consumers are buying their
first smartphone.  Acer Inc. (2353)  will be one of the first customers
for the device, Bell said.  “We’ve built this device targeted at  emerging markets ,”
Bell said. “This segment is one of the fastest-growing segments
in the smartphone market.”  Intel’s Haswell design for larger computers and tablets is
the first one created from scratch for so-called Ultrabook
laptops, which are thin machines that can run all day on a small
battery without being plugged in.  The new design will draw as little as 7 watts, allowing
customers to build machines that double as tablets and laptops,
said Intel Vice President Kirk Skaugen. The devices will be able
to run as long as 13 hours before recharging, he said.  Perceptual Computing  Intel also talked about what it calls “perceptual
computing” and demonstrated devices capable of understanding
voice commands and more readily recognizing gestures. Such
functions are part of a push by the company to make personal
computers attractive to consumers again after 2012, when PC
shipments  fell  for the first time in more than a decade,
according to IHS iSuppli.  Among the plans for hardware are devices that will do
things like recognize when a TV viewer has left the couch and
automatically pause a show, according to  Daniel Berenbaum , an
analyst at MKM Partners LLC. Features that are of practical
value may make PCs popular among consumers again and drive
demand for powerful chips needed to run them, he said.  “It’s symptomatic of this frustration they’ve expressed
with the pace of innovation in the PC industry,” Berenbaum
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  