-- International Game Targeted With Proxy Fight by Ex-CEO Mathewson
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-01-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/international-game-target-of-proxy-fight-by-ex-ceo-mathewson-1-.html
International Game Technology (IGT) , the
biggest slot-machine maker, faces a challenge from shareholders
planning to nominate four people to its board, including former
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Charles Mathewson.  Mathewson is working with Ader Investment Management LP,
run by former casino-industry analyst Jason Ader, according to a
proxy filing yesterday by Reno, Nevada-based IGT. The group owns
8.05 million shares, or about 3 percent, of the stock.  The move follows an 18 percent drop in IGT’s share price
last year, the third straight annual decline. IGT said it has
held “numerous calls, e-mails and face-to-face meetings” with
Ader, including his November 2012 presentation to the board.  “IGT has provided multiple opportunities for the Ader
group to offer plans or strategies to enhance  shareholder
value ,” the company said in its filing. “To date, it has not
suggested any constructive alternatives to the company’s
strategy.”  The Ader group plans to nominate Ader and Mathewson, along
with Raymond J. Brooks and Daniel B. Silver, according to the
filing. Through a spokesman, Ader and Mathewson declined to
comment.  The shares fell 1.7 percent to $14.68 yesterday in  New
York . They closed at an all time high of $49.06 in February
2008.  IGT’s share price has been impacted by “economic headwinds
that have not helped us,” Chief Executive Officer Patti Hart
said today in a telephone interview. The company is in a “show
me state” as result of its  acquisition  last year of social
gaming business Double Down Interactive LLC for as much as $500
million.  “We’re not happy with the stock price either,” she said.
“I think the stock price since I joined the company is up
significantly.”  Executive Dispute  International Game Technology shares have advanced 54
percent since Hart became CEO on April 1, 2009.  IGT said its board believes the proxy fight is motivated by
a long-running dispute between the company and Mathewson. In
2010 it severed financial ties with the executive, who retired
in 2003, according to the filing.  Mathewson resigned from the position of chairman in Oct.
2003 after serving in that role since Feb. 1986, according to
press release at the time. Hart said Mathewson received
compensation until 2010.  “Mathewson has become less supportive of the company,
driven by our continued work to extract him from the business,”
Hart said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  