-- Iran Crude Oil Exports Drop 40 Percent Amid Sanctions, ISNA Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-01-07T15:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/iran-crude-oil-exports-drop-40-percent-amid-sanctions-isna-says.html
Iran ’s crude oil shipments plunged 40
percent in the last nine months, state-run  Iranian Students News
Agency  reported, in a rare acknowledgment that international
sanctions are crimping the country’s most lucrative export.  Iran will export an estimated 1.5 million barrels a day in
the Iranian year starting March 21, said Gholamreza Kateb, a
spokesman for the parliamentary planning and budget committee,
according to ISNA. Kateb, who didn’t provide comparable sales
data for the current Iranian year, based his comments on a
report Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi presented to the nation’s
parliament, the agency reported today.  Revenue from sales of oil and natural gas condensates has
fallen by 45 percent and faces a “considerable decrease” by
March 20, Kateb said, according to ISNA.  Iran’s oil exports have dwindled as the U.S. and European
Union tighten sanctions on the Islamic republic’s energy and
banking industries in an effort to deter its nuclear program.
Iranian authorities and state-run media have typically played
down the impact of sanctions on crude sales.  Formerly the second-biggest producer in the 12-member
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Iran has slipped
to fifth place behind Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Venezuela and  Kuwait ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It pumped 2.66 million
barrels a day in December, 40,000 barrels a day less than in
November, the data show.  The International Energy Agency, which advises the world’s
biggest industrialized economies, said last month that Iranian
oil exports will slump to 1 million barrels a day this month as
European and Asian nations cut purchases to gain exemptions from
U.S. sanctions. The EU banned imports of Iranian crude in July.  China , the biggest importer of Iranian crude, reduced
shipments by more than 20 percent in the first 11 months of
2012, the Paris-based IEA said.  Iran faces additional penalties starting in February that
will prohibit the repatriation of export earnings, according to
the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  