-- Israel Presses U.S. for Military Threat Against Iran
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-01-07T19:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/israel-presses-u-s-for-military-threat-against-iran.html
Israel  is again turning up the
pressure on the Obama administration to issue an ultimatum
threatening military action if Iran refuses to abandon its
suspected pursuit of an atomic weapons capability.  Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz is the latest
member of Israel’s cabinet and national security establishment
to come to  Washington  to press senior U.S. officials to lay out
a tougher line on the Islamic Republic’s nuclear activities.  The time has come for President  Barack Obama  to give Iran a
“very clear ultimatum, very clear deadline combined with a very
credible also military threat” Steinitz told a group of
reporters this morning before planned meetings with Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and other administration officials
today and tomorrow.  Steinitz declined to comment on Obama’s announcement today
that he will nominate former Senator Chuck Hagel, a Nebraska
Republican, as defense secretary, saying “it is not our custom
to interfere in democratic procedures in other democracies.”  Hagel has come under criticism from Republicans including
 Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  who say he is soft on
Iran and not a strong enough ally of Israel.  As a two-term senator until 2009, Hagel opposed unilateral
U.S. sanctions against Iran, while supporting  United Nations  and
multilateral penalties. Hagel, currently chairman of the
Atlantic Council, a Washington policy institute, has also served
as co-chairman of the group’s Iran Task Force, which has studied
Iran’s internal politics, the impact of sanctions, the likely
cost of military action and the possibility of improved
relations with Western nations.  Sanctions Bite  “We will accept and respect any results, any decision made
by the president and the Congress here,” the Israeli finance
minister said of Hagel’s nomination.  Steinitz said he would tell Geithner that Israel views the
financial sanctions imposed on Iran by the Obama administration
as “very serious and very effective and the Iranian economy is
in bad shape already now.”  During Obama’s first term, the U.S. and its European allies
have imposed dozens of new sanctions affecting banking, finance,
energy, shipping, insurance and trade with Iran. The Obama
administration persuaded the 20 countries that imported crude
oil from Iran in 2011 to cease imports entirely or
“significantly reduce” their crude purchases from Iran.  Exports Drop  Oil is Iran’s leading source of revenue and, according to
the  International Energy Agency  in Paris, Iranian exports in
November were estimated at 1.3 million barrels per day, down
from almost 2.3 million barrels last year. Iran’s economy
minister Shamseddin Hosseini said last month that Iran had lost
half its oil revenues in 2012 because of sanctions, and that
drop in revenue was responsible for a 40 percent government
budget deficit for the year starting March 20.  Steinitz said he would discuss with Geithner and other
White House and State Department officials what Israel perceives
as loopholes in sanctions and Iran’s efforts to subvert legal
restrictions. He declined to provide examples.  Steinitz said he is encouraged by the sanctions that are
crippling Iran’s economy, and said it appears that “for the
first time maybe at least some Iranians” are questioning
whether the nuclear program is “worth the cost.”  Iran  says its uranium-enrichment and other nuclear
activities are for civilian energy production and medical
research. Israel, the U.S. and European powers say Iran is
clandestinely seeking the technology to produce a nuclear
weapon.  ‘Credible’ Threat  Steinitz said Israel’s government is “not confident” to
say that the sanctions alone will be sufficient to deter Iran
from nuclear-weapons ambitions. The U.S. needs to make clear
that Iran will never be allowed to build nuclear weapons, so
that any reasonable Iranian leaders should conclude that it is
pointless to “suffer from the sanctions,” he said.  Asked if he thinks negotiations between Iran and six world
powers, including the U.S., may yield a durable deal to avert
any military action, he said he hopes “a sound and credible
diplomatic solution” is possible.  Still, he said, sanctions alone -- or sanctions combined
with negotiations -- are “insufficient” to stop Iran from
continuing to pursue an atomic-bomb capability. The U.S. must
issue “a credible military threat” to persuade Iran’s
leadership to abandon any nuclear military ambitions, he said.  “It seems they need something else” to “convince them to
change their behavior, to make significant compromises at least
for several years,” Steinitz said.  In Israel, Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  emphasized the
Iranian threat in remarks today to Jewish youth touring Israel
on “Birthright” scholarships.  “The time has come for the world to wake up,” he said
according to remarks issued by his office. “The danger to the
world is not Jews building in  Jerusalem . The danger is from
nuclear weapons in Iran and chemical weapons in  Syria .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  