-- Ivory Coast Has Put Economy Back on Track, IMF’s Lagarde Says
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-01-07T15:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/ivory-coast-has-put-economy-back-on-track-imf-s-lagarde-says.html
Ivory Coast has put its economy on
the “right track” after a political crisis, and posted growth
of more than 8.5 percent last year, International Monetary Fund
chief  Christine Lagarde  said.  The rebound follows a contraction of 4.7 percent in 2011
and is “the result of good policies” implemented after the
standoff that followed that year’s presidential election,
Lagarde told lawmakers from the West African nation today in
Abidjan, the commercial capital. The conflict left more than
3,000 dead and disrupted business and trade.  Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest cocoa producer, has
overhauled the industry and improved the business climate by
setting up commercial courts, Lagarde said. Public investment is
set to increase to 7 percent of gross domestic product this year
from 3 percent in 2010, she said.  The West African nation also had $4.4 billion of its debt
canceled in June after it completed an economic-reform program
backed by the IMF and the  World Bank . Last month foreign donors
pledged about $8.6 billion, more than double the amount
initially sought, for a development plan to create jobs and
improve infrastructure.  Challenges the West African nation needs to meet to support
growth include investing in education and training, improving
access to borrowing and building a more competitive banking
system, Lagarde said.  The government is targeting 9 percent growth this year and
10 percent in 2014, and aims to win recognition for Ivory Coast
as an emerging country by 2020. That’s “not a hopeless dream
but an approach based on concrete policies,” Lagarde said.  For More News and Information:
On Ivory Coast’s economy: {TNI IVORY ECO}
On  Ivory Coast ’s cocoa industry: {TNI IVORY COCOA}  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  