-- J&J Faces First Vaginal Mesh Implant Trial in New Jersey
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-01-07T16:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/j-j-faces-first-vaginal-mesh-implant-trial-in-new-jersey.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  is set to face its
first trial over its vaginal mesh implant in a case brought by a
South Dakota woman who blames the product for constant pain and
18 subsequent operations.  The lawsuit by Linda Gross, 47, is the first of 1,800 in
state court in New Jersey to go to trial today over whether
J&J’s Ethicon unit adequately warned of the risks of the device.
Several manufacturers, who make the devices to shore up pelvic
muscles, face lawsuits by women who blame them for organ
perforation, pain, scarring and nerve damage.  “She can no longer sit comfortably for more than a few
minutes without having to either stand up or lay down to try to
reduce the level of pain,” Gross’s attorneys said in court
papers filed in Atlantic City. “She requires various daily
medications to treat her severe chronic pain.”  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, denies Gross’s
claims for failure to warn of the risks, defective design and
negligence.  In August, the company stopped selling four mesh devices in
the U.S., including the Gynecare Prolift that Gross had
implanted on July 13, 2006. The former nurse claims her pain
ruined her quality of life and keeps her from working.  J&J, the world’s biggest seller of health-care products,
denies Gross’s allegations, according to an Ethicon spokesman,
Matthew Johnson.  “The evidence will show that Ethicon acted appropriately
and responsibly in the research, development and marketing of
pelvic mesh products to treat debilitating conditions affecting
many women,” Johnson said in an e-mail.  Jury Selection  Jury selection began today when more than 100 potential
jurors began filling out questionnaires. Lawyers will select a
jury panel Jan. 9, with opening statements expected the next
day. The trial is scheduled to last more than a month.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration told J&J, C.R. Bard
Inc. and 31 other manufacturers last January to study rates of
organ damage and complications linked to implants. Doctors
implanted more than 70,000 mesh devices in U.S. women in 2010,
threading them through incisions in the vagina to fortify pelvic
muscles that failed to support internal organs.  J&J said in June that it would end sales worldwide based on
their commercial viability, not their safety and effectiveness.  Superior Court Judge Carol Higbee has wrestled in recent
days with what lawyers for Gross and J&J can tell jurors about
how the company introduced the Prolift device in March 2005.  No Application  J&J began  selling  the Prolift without filing a new
application under the agency’s so-called 510(k) application
process, which requires companies to show that a device is
“substantially similar” to others on the market.  The company determined on its own that it was substantially
similar to the Gynecare Gynemesh, one of the company’s devices
already approved by the FDA, J&J said last year in an e-mail.  The FDA disagreed with J&J’s interpretation and required a
new application in August 2007, saying Prolift sales began
“without appropriate” clearance, an agency spokeswoman, Morgan
Liscinsky, said last year in an e-mail.  J&J has said it began sales after citing an agency guidance
document, “Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an
Existing Device,” according to Liscinsky and Johnson.  The company faced no sanctions because the FDA determined
that it applied the guidance in good faith and promptly complied
when the agency required a new application, Liscinsky said. The
FDA cleared the device in May 2008 after nine months of
negotiations with J&J.  Addressing Jury  Higbee heard arguments Jan. 4 about what jurors could hear
about the device’s regulatory history.  “We’re entitled to say they were required to get 510(k)
clearance, and they didn’t get it,” Gross’s attorney, David
Mazie, told Higbee.  “We continually hear that we marketed the device without
clearance,” William M. Gage, J&J’s lawyer, told the judge.
That’s not true. We marketed it under the guidance.”  “If they’re going to go in and say we didn’t get
clearance, we’ve got to be able to say we did get clearance,”
Gage said.  Higbee barred Adam Slater, the lawyer who will give an
opening statement for Gross, from using words like “fraud,”
“illegal” and “similarly inflammatory language” in
addressing the jury.  ‘Mental Illness’  On Jan. 3, Mazie argued that J&J should not be allowed to
let a psychiatrist testify that Gross suffers from a “serious
mental illness” that contributes to the excruciating pain she’s
suffered. The doctor would testify that Gross refused to go to a
pain management center and wants to “hold on to her pain” so
she can continue to claim disability, Mazie said.  At the hearing on Jan. 4, Higbee said jurors can hear about
Gross’s various medical problems.  “I don’t foresee that defense counsel is going to stand up
there and say this woman is responsible for her injuries,”
Higbee said. “I have very little doubt that that would be a
mistake.”  Possible witnesses for Gross include  Alex Gorsky , who
became J&J’s chief executive officer last April and was elected
chairman Nov. 30.  Gorsky joined J&J’s Janssen unit in 1988 as a sales
representative, according to a company biography. He left the
company in 2004 to join Basel, Switzerland-based  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,
where he headed North American pharmaceuticals.  Four years later, he returned to J&J. He was named global
chairman of the devices and diagnostics groups in 2009.  The case is Gross v. Gynecare Inc. Atl-L-6966-10, Superior
Court of Atlantic County, New Jersey (Atlantic City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 