-- J&J Facing Trial Over Artificial-Hip Claims in Maryland
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-01-07T16:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/j-j-facing-trial-over-artificial-hip-claims-in-maryland.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , which is defending
against more than 10,000 lawsuits over recalled hip implants,
faces its first trial of claims that the devices left some
patients immobilized and in pain.  Moira Jackson, a former professional dancer who received
two artificial hips, claims J&J’s  DePuy  unit didn’t properly
warn her or her doctors about the implants’ risks. Jury
selection in Jackson’s case is slated to begin today in state
court in Prince George’s County, Maryland, near  Washington .  DePuy’s faulty ASR hips caused Jackson “severe physical
distress and injury” and left her unable “to lead a normal
life,” her lawyers said in court filings. Jackson is seeking at
least $15 million in damages, according to the filings.  J&J in 2010  recalled  its 93,000 ASR hips worldwide,
including 37,000 in the U.S., saying more than 12 percent of
them failed within five years. Patients suing  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J claim metal debris from the hips, made from a
cobalt and chromium alloy, causes tissue death around the joint
and may increase metal ions in the bloodstream to harmful
levels.  J&J countered in court filings that federal regulators
approved the sale of ASR hips and DePuy executives adequately
informed doctors and patients about the prosthesis’s risks of
failure.  FDA Approval  “Defendants deny that the medical device, which was
cleared for use in the  United States  by the  Food and Drug
Administration , is defective,” J&J said in court filings.  DePuy will fight the allegations “and believes the
evidence will show the company acted appropriately and
responsibly,”  Lorie Gawreluk , a company spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  J&J faced 10,100 suits over the DePuy hips as of September,
according to a November  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. J&J said in the filing that it increased
reserves “due to anticipated product liability litigation and
costs associated with” the ASR hips. The company didn’t specify
the amount of the increase.  The company said in January 2012 that it had spent about
$800 million on hip recalls during the prior two years. J&J
wouldn’t estimate its product-liability costs.  Consolidated Suits  Many of the hip suits have been consolidated before a
federal judge in Ohio for pretrial information exchanges. U.S.
District Judge  David Katz  in Toledo has set the first of those
cases to go to trial in May, according to a December court
filing. The second trial is set for July.  Jackson’s suit was set for trial after an attempt to
resolve the case last year through mediation failed, according
to court filings.  By 2006, arthritis in the former dancer’s hips “had become
debilitating,” J&J said in a court filing. She had her left hip
replaced with an ASR implant in August of that year and her
right hip four months later, according to the filing.  In 2009, the device in her left hip loosened and Jackson
had it replaced, J&J said in the filing. She had a similar
revision surgery on her right hip the next year.  Jackson’s lawyers will probably argue that besides the pain
and stress caused by the hip’s failure and additional surgeries,
the retired dancer may have been exposed to harmful levels of
chromium and cobalt ions released by the device, according to
court filings.  Surgeon’s Testimony  J&J is seeking to block the testimony of Dr.  Robert
Snowden , a Florida-based orthopedic surgeon whom Jackson’s
lawyers want to call as an expert witness, according to court
papers. Snowden is seeking to tell jurors that ASR hips raise
patients’  cancer risks , J&J said in a filing.  The company contends that Snowden isn’t qualified to appear
as an expert witness about the operations of the implants or
their systemic effects upon patients.  “Dr. Snowden’s opinion that ions released from a metal-on-
metal implant may cause cancer is also inadmissible because he
cannot opine based on a probability and not on possibility,”
J&J said.  Judge  Crystal Dixon Mittelstaedt  in Upper Marlboro,
 Maryland , is scheduled to oversee jury selection today and
lawyers are slated to give opening statements tomorrow.  Maryland Trial  The Maryland trial comes more than four months after J&J
agreed to pay about $600,000 to three ASR hip recipients in the
first settlements of the litigation, people familiar with
accords told  Bloomberg News . The cases had been set for trial in
December in state court in  Las Vegas .  Brian Franciskato , who is representing Jackson in the
Maryland case, was one of the lawyers for the Nevada plaintiffs
who settled. He declined to comment on Jackson’s case in a
telephone interview last week.  The consolidated federal case is In re DePuy Orthopedics
Inc., ASR Hip Implant Products Liability Litigation, 10-MD-2197,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Ohio  (Toledo).  The Maryland case is Jackson v. DePuy Orthopaedics Inc.,
CAL 10-32147, Circuit Court for Prince George’s County, Maryland
(Upper Marlboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  