-- Abe Seen Spending 12 Trillion Yen to Boost Japan’s Economy
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-01-07T09:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/japan-to-spend-12-trillion-yen-to-boost-economy-yomiuri-says.html
     Jan. 7 (Bloomberg) --The Japanese government will announce
around 12 trillion yen ($136 billion) in fiscal stimulus
measures to boost the nation’s shrinking economy, Japanese media
reported today.  The Yomiuri newspaper and  Kyodo News  both reported the
figure for extra spending in the fiscal year through March, with
the Yomiuri saying that 5-6 trillion yen will be directed to
public works projects, without citing anyone. Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe told business leaders today that he hopes to compile
the measures this week.  The spending may help to accelerate a recovery from
recession as Abe pledges to boost growth and end deflation in
the world’s third-largest economy. While  Japan ’s public debt is
more than twice gross domestic product, Finance Minister Taro Aso said last week that the government doesn’t need to adhere to
a 44 trillion-yen cap on new bond issuance in this fiscal year.  “The scale of this budget suggests that Abe’s new
administration is serious about stimulating the economy,” said
 Masamichi Adachi , a senior economist at  JPMorgan Securities  in
 Tokyo  and a former central bank official. “It’ll be very
helpful in the near-time, but the problem in the medium-to-long
term is that we have to pay this back.”  The yield on benchmark 10-year Japanese  government bonds 
rose half a basis point to 0.84 percent today, the highest since
Aug. 21, while the 30-year yield rose to 2.0 percent, a
thirteen-month high.  Increasing Debt  A 12 trillion yen extra budget would require about 8-9
trillion in extra bond issuance,  Chotaro Morita , chief
strategist for fixed income at Barclays Plc in Tokyo, said in
an emailed research note today.  Vice Finance Minister Yuko Obuchi told reporters today that
the government would need to sell deficit-financing bonds to pay
for the extra budget.  The  Finance Ministry  will offer loans worth 100 billion yen
to help companies develop new technologies, with firms
contributing an additional 50 billion yen to the program,
according to a ministry draft proposal obtained by Bloomberg
News.  The ministry will also contribute around 70 billion yen to
a fund to help finance firms’ overseas mergers and acquisitions,
according to the draft. The money will be disbursed through the
 Japan Bank for International Cooperation , with the total size of
the fund at 200 billion yen.  Japan’s gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 3.5
percent pace in the third quarter after contracting in the three
months through June, meeting the textbook definition of a
recession. The median estimate of analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  is for a further 0.5 percent fall in the three months
through December.  More than 4 trillion yen would be allocated for public
works and the extra budget will also allocate around 2.6
trillion yen to fund pension payments, Kyodo News reported today
without saying where it obtained the information.  Aso said last month that ministries should submit spending
requests for the extra budget by today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  