-- Japanese, U.S. Stock Futures Little Changed as Yen Strengthens
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-01-07T23:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/japanese-u-s-stock-futures-little-changed-as-yen-strengthens.html
Japanese stock futures were little
changed as the yen strengthened against the dollar, weakening
the earnings outlook for exporters.  American Depositary Receipts of  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s
largest camera maker, advanced 1.6 percent as Jefferies Group
Inc. advised buying the shares. Shares of Aozora Bank Ltd. may
move after Cerberus Capital Management LP confirmed it is set to
offload its holding after the Japanese lender’s stock tripled
over four years.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
March closed at 10,620 in Chicago yesterday, at the same level
as they were at the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the
pre-market at 10,610 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.4 percent and New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was little changed. The yen strengthened
0.3 percent to 87.54 per dollar from yesterday.  “We don’t expect a no-brainer one-way climb for stocks,”
said  Michael Kurtz , chief global equity strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong . “Japan for its part has delivered a
key step toward expectations of a major pro-reflation policy
shift.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 22 percent since Nov.
14 when elections were announced, driving the gauge into a  bull
market  on expectations a new government would call for more
stimulus and a weakening currency boosted the earnings outlook
for exporters. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, a proponent for more
monetary policy easing, will have a chance to reshape the  Bank
of Japan  early this year, when the terms of Governor Masaaki
Shirakawa and his two deputies expire.  Winning Streak  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  posted its seventh weekly
advance last week, the longest winning streak since March last
year, after U.S. Congress approved a budget deal and
manufacturing reports from China and the U.S. added to signs of
a global recovery. The measure traded at 14.2 times average
estimated earnings, compared with about 13.2 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and about 11.9 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the S&P 500 Index were little changed today. The
benchmark U.S. equities gauge fell 0.3 percent yesterday as
investors awaited the start of the corporate earnings season
tomorrow.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 0.9 percent to 100.77
yesterday in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  