-- JPMorgan Says New York Filed Bear Stearns Suit Too Late
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-01-07T18:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/jpmorgan-asks-court-to-dismiss-n-y-mortgage-suit-as-late.html
New York’s fraud lawsuit against
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  over mortgage securities sold to investors
must be dismissed because the time for bringing the claims has
expired, the bank said.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s complaint is
barred by a three-year statute of limitations, JPMorgan said in
papers dated Jan. 4 and filed in New York State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan .  Schneiderman sued New York-based JPMorgan in October,
alleging that Bear Stearns, the investment bank it acquired in
2008, deceived investors about  mortgage loans  backing
securities, leading to losses.  Schneiderman, who was named co-chairman of a state-federal
group formed to investigate misconduct in the bundling of
mortgage loans into securities, has said the JPMorgan case would
serve as a template for lawsuits against other issuers. The
state has also sued  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  on similar grounds.  New York’s claims stem from Bear Stearns’ role as sponsor
and underwriter of subprime and Alt-A mortgage-backed securities
before JPMorgan acquired the securities firm. Losses on $87
billion of securities from 2006 and 2007 total about $22.5
billion, according to the state’s complaint.  ‘Will Prevail’  “We are confident that our office will prevail, and that
those responsible for the misconduct that led to the crash of
the housing market and the collapse of the American economy will
be held accountable,” James Freedland, a spokesman for
Schneiderman, said in a statement.  JPMorgan is among 10 mortgage servicers that reached an
$8.5 billion settlement that will end reviews of foreclosure-
abuse claims, regulators said today.  The lender argued in its court filing that  New York  can’t
take advantage of a six-year statute of limitations and that a
three-year period applies. JPMorgan and the state reached a
so-called tolling agreement effective April 5, 2012, that
stopped the statute of limitations from expiring, according to
the filing. Because the conduct at issue occurred before April
2009, the claims must be dismissed, JPMorgan argued.  The attorney general’s office contends a six-year period
applies under the state’s securities fraud statute.  JPMorgan also said in its court filing that the case should
be dismissed because the state hasn’t outlined its allegations
with the “requisite particularity.”  “Even if the attorney general’s claims were not time-
barred, they would fail for lack of specificity and must
therefore be dismissed,” the bank said.  The case is People of the State of New York v. J.P. Morgan
Securities, 451556-2012, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  