-- JPMorgan Seeks Liability Shield in WaMu Bondholder Suit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-07T20:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/jpmorgan-seeks-liability-shield-in-wamu-bondholder-suit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  asked a federal
judge to order the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. to cover any
costs or liabilities in a bondholder case stemming from the
bank’s takeover of  Washington  Mutual Bank.  JPMorgan, in a filing today in Washington, said that under
the terms of a 2008 agreement with the FDIC it shouldn’t be on
the hook for any damages, attorneys’ fees or court costs in a
lawsuit filed by Washington Mutual bondholders accusing the bank
of being involved in a scheme to deprive them of their
investments.  When it picked up Washington Mutual banking operations in
September 2008, JPMorgan “assumed only certain defined
liabilities,” which didn’t include WaMu’s bond obligations,
according to the filing. WaMu’s debt obligations -- including
the bonds at issue in the case -- were liabilities that remained
with the FDIC, the bank said.  “As a result of this action, the JPMC defendants have
suffered significant harm,” attorney  Brent McIntosh  of Sullivan
& Cromwell LLP wrote in the filing, referring to the suit. New
York-based JPMorgan has “been forced to litigate this action
for close to four years and incurred substantial costs and
expenses,” he said.  A federal judge dismissed the suit in 2010 after finding
that the bondholders hadn’t sought recovery through the FDIC’s
administrative claims process.  Case Revived  The case was revived on appeal in 2011 by a three-judge
panel, which ruled that the court had jurisdiction because the
bondholders’ allegations of wrongdoing were made against
JPMorgan.  “If JPMorgan thinks the FDIC is responsible for the
damages my client suffered, that is between them,”  Andrew J.
Mytelka , a lawyer for the bondholders, said in an e-mail.  David Barr , an FDIC spokesman, said the agency doesn’t
comment on active litigation.  The case is American National Insurance Co. v. Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., 09-cv-01743, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 