-- Kenya’s Shilling Heads for Seven-Month Low on Rate Cut Bets
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-01-07T11:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/kenya-s-shilling-heads-for-seven-month-low-on-rate-cut-bets.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened for a
second day, heading for a seven-month low, on speculation the
central bank will cut its benchmark interest rate this week.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
as much as 0.3 percent to 86.56 a dollar and traded at 86.50 by
1:10 p.m. in Nairobi, the capital. A close at this level would
be the lowest since May 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Central Bank of Kenya’s Monetary Policy Committee, led
by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, will meet on Jan. 10, the bank said
on its  website . The panel lowered the  benchmark  interest rate by
2 percentage points to 11 percent when it last convened on Nov.
7. Inflation slowed for a 13th consecutive month to 3.2 percent
in December from 3.3 percent a month earlier, remaining below
the government’s target of 5 percent, Nairobi-based Kenya Bureau
of Statistics said on Dec. 28.  “The shilling is under pressure due to an anticipated
rate-cut decision,” Nairobi-based  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB)  said in a note
to its clients.  The central bank has lowered its key  lending rate  by 7
percentage points since July to stimulate the economy after
growth slowed to 3.3 percent in the second quarter from 3.4
percent in the first. Expansion quickened to 4.7 percent in the
three months to September.  Kenya’s benchmark interest rate is seen at 10 percent this
year, according to the median forecast of four economists
surveyed by Bloomberg in November.  “The outlook is for a 50 to 100 basis-point cut as they
seek to support the economy but with a keen eye not to put the
shilling under further pressure,” Duncan Kinuthia, the head of
trading at Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said by phone from
Nairobi.  The central bank offered 7.1 billion shillings ($82
million) of seven-day repurchase agreements, a bank official who
asked not to be identified in line with policy, said by phone
today.  The Ugandan shilling weakened 0.7 percent to 2,735 a
dollar, declining for a third day. Tanzania’s shilling traded
unchanged at 1,592 per dollar after depreciating for three days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  