-- HKEx Names New Heads of Global Markets After LME Takeover Closes
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-01-07T12:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/hkex-names-new-heads-of-global-markets-after-lme-takeover-closes.html
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing
Ltd. , the world’s biggest bourse operator by market value, named
Romnesh Lamba and Martin Abbott co-heads of global markets as it
completes its takeover of the London Metal Exchange.  Abbott, 52, will remain chief executive of the LME, the
HKEx said in an  e-mailed statement  today. Lamba, 49, will become
the chief executive of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd. and
Hong Kong Futures Exchange Ltd. He was previously head of market
development at the bourse, according to the release.  The exchange’s $2.2 billion takeover of LME, its first
overseas acquisition, was completed in December. The offer was
priced at 181 times LME’s 2011 net income, making it the most
expensive bourse merger over $1 billion. LME is the venue for
more than 80 percent of metals trading.  As CEO of the stock and futures exchanges Lamba succeeds
Gerald Greiner who has been appointed HKEx’s head of global
clearing, the exchange said. Reporting to Greiner, 56, will be
new co-heads of clearing risk management Felix Wang, Ketan Patel
and Chris Jones, according to the release.  In its announcement, HKEx also named Bryan Chan and Calvin
Tai co-heads of its equities and FIC business. Both men
previously held senior positions at the bourse, the exchange
said.  The bourse also appointed Henry Ingrouille as its chief
operating officer. He was a managing director at Morgan Stanley
prior to joining HKEx, and was previously the bourse’s chief
administrative officer, according to its release.  HKEx appointed David Graham as its chief regulatory officer
in October. Graham will be the designate head of listings,
succeeding Mark Dickens upon his retirement in July 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  