-- Kodak, Disney, Apple, DC Comics: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-07T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/kodak-disney-apple-dc-comics-intellectual-property.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the bankrupt
photography company, was sued by  Japan ’s  Kyocera Corp. (6971)  for
allegedly infringing more than a dozen U.S. patents with its
printers and digital cameras.  Kodak, based in Rochester, New York, will cause
“irreparable harm” to Kyoto-based Kyocera if the infringement
isn’t stopped, plaintiff’s lawyers said in a complaint filed
Dec. 4 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  Kyocera is seeking a  jury trial  and unspecified damages
from Kodak, which has been trying to sell some of its own
patents to pay creditors.  Kodak sought  bankruptcy protection  in January 2012, citing
$5.1 billion in assets and $6.75 billion in debt, as the
transition to digital photography eroded the company’s film-
based business.  Christopher Veronda , a Kodak spokesman, didn’t immediately
return voice and e-mail messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Disney Seeks U.S. Patent on Computer Game Controller With Lens  The Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  has filed an application for a patent
on a gaming console that can use images from everyday reality
and allow a user to manipulate and animate those images.  Application  20130002698 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Jan. 3, covers what Disney
calls “virtual lens-rendering for augmented reality lens.”  The application noted that while some game devices already
capture images from outside the game, the colors shown on the
screen may not match up with the actual object. While some
devices can allow the user to make adjustments so the image more
closely aligns with the object, these adjustments may produce
“an unrealistic display” in other environments.”  Burbank, California-based Disney applied for the patent in
June 2011. CNet News  reported  Jan. 4 that the technology
described in the patent application may be related to the
forthcoming Toy Box console.  USPTO Seeks Public Input on Improvement of Software Patents  The U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  will hold two public
meetings aimed at the improvement of software patents.  According to a  notice  published Jan. 3 in the Federal
Register, roundtable meetings will be held in  California  and New
York in February.  Stanford University  is the site of the Feb. 12 meeting, and
the New York event will be held at  New York University  Feb. 27.  One of the topics under discussion is the establishment of
clear boundaries for patent claims that use functional language.
Another subject is the office’s request for comments on the
preparation of patent applications.  The office is also seeking input on topics for future
discussions related to software patents.  While attendees at both events will have opportunity to
provide input, the office said group-consensus advice won’t be
sought.  Advance registration may be made by sending an e-mail to
 softwareroundtable2013@USPTO.gov . Applicants should specify
name, title, applicable company or organization, address, phone
number and e-mail address, and which presentation they wish to
attend.  Those who wish to make a presentation should send final
electronic copies of their remarks to the same address.  Potential attendees are asked to register by Feb. 4.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ‘Scottish Wild Salmon’ Now a Protected Name Indicator in EU  “Scottish Wild Salmon” is now a protected geographic name
indicator in the European Union, according to a December
 publication  in the Official Journal of the European Union.  Use of the term to describe either non-wild salmon or
salmon from outside the specific geographic area was barred
beginning Dec. 27.  The Salmon Net Fishing Association of  Scotland  is the
organization that had sought the designation, Scotland’s
Montrose Review  reported .  According to the Aberdeen, Scotland-based association’s
 website , all rights of salmon fishing in that country are held
as private titles that can be inherited, regardless of whether
the fishing is done in fresh water or in the sea.  The 107-year-old association’s membership is comprised of
owners and lessees of salmon fisheries on the east coast of
Scotland, and is Scotland’s oldest fishermen’s organization.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Apple Fined in Beijing Court for Infringing Writers Copyrights  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPhone and iPod, must pay 1.03
million Chinese  yuan  ($165,300) in a Chinese copyright case,
XinHua’s English language news  reported .  The ruling came from Beijing No. 2 Intermediate People’s
Court, which found that Cupertino, California-based Apple had
violated the copyrights of eight Chinese writers and two
companies, XinHua reported.  The suits were related to alleged unlicensed electronic
versions of books sold as downloads by Apple, according to
XinHua.  The charge against Apple was violation of the writers
“right of communication through information networks,” XinHua
reported.  DC Comics’ ‘Batmobile’ Case Set for Jan. 30 Motion Hearing  A hearing is scheduled for Jan. 30 in the copyright-
infringement case  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s DC Comics unit brought
against a builder of custom autos.  DC Comics sued Mark Towle of  Santa Ana , California, in
federal court in  Los Angeles  in March 2011, claiming he
infringed copyrights by producing replica Batmobiles through his
 Gotham Garage .  The court will hear both sides’ presentations on motions
for dismissal of the case, according to a Dec. 26 filing.  That document specifies that Towle has made and distributed
copies of the Batmobile seen in the 1996 “Batman” television
series, and car kits with which others could also reconfigure
their cars to resemble the Batmobile. Towel didn’t stipulate
that his replicas contained all the “separable, non-functional,
artistic elements” that DC Comics contends it owns.  The joint statement specifies that all the stipulations the
parties made in that document are valid only in connection with
the motion for dismissal of the case. Should the case go forward
beyond that point, the stipulations would have “no force and
effect,” according to the statement.  The case is DC Comics v. Mart Towle, 2:11-cv-03934-RSWL-OP,
U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Verdero’s Starfire, Extreme Environment Materials Settle Dispute  Verdero Capital LLC’s Starfire Systems said in a Jan. 3
 statement  that it has resolved a trade-secret and trademark-
infringement case against Extreme Environment Materials
Solutions unit and two former Starfire employees.  New York-based Starfire engineers polymer-based ceramic
components for its customers. They are used in armor, aerospace
and electronics. The company sued Extreme Environment and the
ex-employees in federal court in Syracuse,  New York , in July
2011.  According to a Dec. 21 court filing, all the defendants are
permanently barred from developing , manufacturing, purchasing,
selling or brokering products based on a process outlined in
some “highly confidential” Starfire documents.  They are also barred from using Starfire’s trademarks as a
name for or description of any products not made by Starfire.
They must also discontinue use of the “Starfire.co” Internet
domain name, and from any involvement with any other domain name
that directly or indirectly contains the terms “Starfire” or
“Starfire Systems.”  No financial terms were mentioned in this court filing,
which specified that all claims and defenses are now dismissed
and parties had to pay their own litigation costs and attorney
fees.  The case is Starfire Systems Inc. v. Extreme Environment
Materials Solutions LLC, 1:11-cv-00888-GLS-CFH, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of New York (Syracuse).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 