-- N.Z. Consumer Confidence, Spending Boosted by House Price Rises
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-01-07T22:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/n-z-consumer-confidence-spending-boosted-by-house-price-rises.html
New Zealand  consumers increased
spending for a third month in December, emboldened by rising
 house prices , adding to the case for a faster economic recovery
and higher  interest rates  in 2013.  Spending on credit and debt cards rose 0.5 percent from
November, Paymark, which processes three-quarters of all card
transactions, said in an e-mailed statement today.  House prices 
in Auckland, home to a third of the nation’s 4.4 million people,
rose at the fastest pace in five years, another report showed.  Rising property values and record-low  interest rates  have
boosted  consumer confidence , encouraging spending in the weeks
before Christmas and in the immediate aftermath when retailers
offer large discounts. Central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler kept
the official cash rate at 2.5 percent last month and signaled he
will be monitoring the economy for signs of emerging pressure on
inflation.  “The Auckland housing market is quite strong,” said  Craig Ebert , a senior economist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington. “Strong’s good in terms of construction, but not if
it just spills over to inflation which seems to be happening up
there.”  Eight of 16 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  last
month forecast Wheeler will raise borrowing costs this year,
probably in the fourth quarter. New Zealand’s currency has
gained 2.3 percent the past three months on expectations of
faster growth and rate rises. It bought 83.69 U.S. cents at
10:40 a.m. in Wellington.  Stronger Sales  The average house price in Auckland rose 7.7 percent in
2012 from 2011 levels, according to Barfoot & Thompson, which
sells about a third of residential properties in the city. In
December, the average price fell from a record high in November
and there were 920 sales, the most for a December in eight
years, the realtor said in an e-mailed statement.  Card spending last month gained 2.3 percent from a year
ago, Auckland-based Paymark said in its report. After adjusting
for a greater number of Mondays, which are slow trading days,
sales rose 4.3 percent.  “While it’s still tough out there for retailers, the
adjusted numbers paint a more realistic picture of what’s going
on and reflect an encouraging finish to 2012,” Paul Whiston,
head of sales and marketing, said in the statement.  Separately, car registrations in December rose to 6,102
from 5,326 a year earlier, the New Zealand Transport Agency said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Consumer confidence rose in seven of 11 regions in the
fourth quarter, according to a survey conducted by  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  and McDermott Miller Ltd. also published today.  “Economic confidence in Auckland shot up from marginally
pessimistic to firmly optimistic,” Westpac economist Felix
Delbruck said in the report. “The region’s housing market has
gone from strength to strength and manufacturing may be starting
to see the light at the end of the tunnel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  