-- Nationstar Surges on $215 Billion BofA Mortgage Deal
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-01-07T21:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/nationstar-surges-on-215-billion-bofa-mortgage-deal.html
     Jan. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc.
jumped the most since it went public in March, after saying it
will acquire $215 billion in residential mortgage servicing
rights from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   The servicer, majority owned by  Fortress Investment Group
LLC (FIG) , rose 17 percent to $38.83 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York. The
shares surged as much as 19 percent earlier today and have risen
from $14 since the initial public offering last year.  Nationstar is paying $1.3 billion and will more than double
its customer base to 2.5 million, the Lewisville, Texas-based
company said today in a statement. The firm is competing with
 Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  and  Walter Investment Management Corp. (WAC)  to
snap up mortgage-servicing rights as they wager they can profit
as banks retreat amid new regulations that are driving up costs.  “We’re going to continue to look at stuff and continue to
grow the flow,” Nationstar Chief Executive Officer Jay Bray
said today on a conference call with analysts. “Our primary
focus is the large transaction.”  Walter rose 8.2 percent to $47:68 after the Tampa, Florida-
based company said today it agreed to buy the mortgage-servicing
platform of  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and assets from Bank of America. It
paid $519 million for the mortgage-servicing rights with an
unpaid principal balance of $93 billion from Bank of America.  The latest transactions follow Ocwen and Walter’s $3
billion purchase of Residential Capital LLC’s loan-servicing and
origination unit in October, which made Ocwen the biggest non-
bank mortgage servicer.  Servicers perform billing and collections on home loans and
handle foreclosures when borrowers default. Bank of America had
$1.1 trillion in loans serviced for investors as of Sept. 30,
down from $1.4 trillion at the end of 2011.  Bank of America executives have said since at least July
2011 that they will trim mortgage servicing rights and other
assets considered risky by regulators. Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan , seeking to cut costs tied to soured loans,
said in November he wanted to shrink the servicing portfolio to
about 6 million loans from a peak of about 12 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ; 