-- NBAD Soars on Bets Mortgage Caps to Be Delayed: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-07T12:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/nbad-soars-on-bets-mortgage-caps-to-be-delayed-abu-dhabi-mover.html
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC 
surged to a seven-year high on bets lenders in the  United Arab
Emirates  will convince the central bank to delay the
implementation of new caps on mortgage lending.  Shares of the U.A.E.’s second-biggest bank by assets soared
3.7 percent to 11.35 dirhams, the highest level since April
2006, at the close in  Abu Dhabi . The stock was the  biggest
gainer  on the emirate’s benchmark  ADX General Index (ADSMI) , which
slipped 0.2 percent. In neighboring Dubai, Emirates NBD, the
country’s biggest bank by assets, rallied 2.8 percent.  U.A.E. banks will ask the central bank to delay the plan
announced at the end of last year by 30 days, two bankers
familiar with the matter said yesterday. The rules limit
mortgages for expatriates to 50 percent of property value for
a first home, while U.A.E. citizens can finance as much as 70
percent via home loans. There were previously no restrictions
and some banks gave loans of as much as 90 percent of the
property value.  “Investors are betting that the lenders will persuade the
central bank to delay the application of the rules, and that’s
affected banking stocks positively,” said Dubai-based Waleed Al Khateeb, senior finance manager at Daman Securities LLC.
“Strong earnings expectations for NBAD are also helping push up
the stock.”  Banks also plan to speak with the central bank on new loan-
to-value lending limits required for citizens and foreigners,
the people said, asking not to be identified because the
discussions are private.  Lending Recovery  The restrictions were announced after U.A.E. banks revived
mortgage lending amid a recovery from the global credit crisis,
which caused Dubai property prices to crash by more than 65
percent.  Real estate prices in Dubai in some parts of Dubai jumped
in 2012 amid an economic recovery. The U.A.E. economy, the Arab
world’s second-biggest after  Saudi Arabia , probably expanded by
4 percent in 2012, while growth is expected to slow to 3.1
percent this year, according to the median forecast of 14
economists compiled by Bloomberg.  NBAD, which may report results on Jan. 31, will probably
post an  11 percent increase  in 2012 profit to 4.1 billion
dirhams ($1.1 billion), according to the  mean estimate  of eight
analysts on Bloomberg. The company’s shares surged 27 percent in
2012 as they gained  for a fourth year,  compared with an advance
of 9.5 percent for the ADX General Index.  Union National Bank (UNB)  PJSC, whose shareholders include the
governments of Abu Dhabi and Dubai, advanced 3 percent today and
Shariah-compliant  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC (ADIB)  increased 0.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  