-- CFPB Readies New Mortgage Rules as Banks Seek More Time
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-01-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/new-mortgage-rules-readied-by-cfpb-as-banks-seek-time-to-comply.html
Banks including  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  and  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  are
pushing the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to give
them a year to comply with new mortgage underwriting rules that
could be released as early as this week.  The consumer bureau’s so-called qualified mortgage
regulation, which requires lenders to ensure a borrower’s
ability to repay, will be released in connection with a hearing
in Baltimore scheduled for Jan. 10, according to two people
briefed on the plans.  The qualified mortgage rule, mandated by Congress as part
of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, is aimed at tightening lax
underwriting that fueled the housing bubble. The regulations aim
to protect consumers from mortgages they cannot afford by
requiring lenders to take steps such as verifying income and
assets. In return, lenders gain some protection from lawsuits.  Seven regional banks wrote to CFPB in recent weeks asking
that rules be “sequenced” to minimize disruptions to mortgage
lending. The banks proposed a final compliance date of Jan. 21,
2014, for the qualified mortgage rule.  A second hearing, in Atlanta on Jan. 17, will feature new
rules on mortgage servicing to regulate how consumers interact
with the companies, and what protections they can expect,
according to the people briefed on the plans. In their letter,
the banks sought a compliance date of July 21, 2014, for the
servicing rules.  Jen Howard, a spokeswoman for the consumer bureau, declined
to comment. The people briefed on the plans asked not to be
identified because the plans haven’t been made public.  Dodd-Frank requires completion of the qualified mortgage
rules and some of the servicing rules the CFPB is finalizing by
Jan. 21, 2013. The law authorizes the agency to give up to 12
months for implementation of the required rules.  Servicing Rules  The qualified mortgage rule will apply to mortgages in the
underwriting phase. Servicing rules will cover major banks
including  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. 
and San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , as well as non-
depository companies such as  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN) , based in
West Palm Beach,  Florida .  The regulation on qualified mortgages is likely to resemble
a version the bureau vetted with other government agencies in
October, one person said. That version imposed a range of
underwriting requirements and extended a legal safe harbor to
loans issued at prime interest rates to borrowers whose total
debt-to-income ratio doesn’t exceed 43 percent.  An early date, or a simultaneous compliance date for too
many individual rules, would cause lender and servicers to
consider “scaling back or discontinuing mortgage-related
activity,” seven regional banks wrote the bureau on Dec. 19.
“This would be harmful to both consumers and the industry.”  Seven Banks  The letter was signed by PNC, SunTrust and BB&T,  Fifth
Third Bancorp (FITB) ,  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) ,  Comerica Inc. (CMA)  and RBS
Citizens NA.  The Housing Policy Council, a part of the Financial
Services Roundtable, advocated the same timetable in a Dec. 18
letter. The roundtable represents the largest U.S. financial
companies.  Consumer groups have continued to press CFPB for rules on
mortgage servicing that would restrict so-called dual tracking,
the process of seeking mortgage modification during foreclosure.
They are also seeking substantive obligations on lenders to
modify some mortgages beyond those CFPB has proposed.  Americans for Financial Reform, an umbrella group of
consumer advocates, labor unions and civil rights organizations,
asked CFPB to scrap its proposed servicing rules in an Oct. 9
letter.  ‘Be Bold’  “They have to be bold on this one to get it right,” Lisa Donner, executive director of the umbrella group, said in an
interview. “There’s no squaring a circle here.”  Consumer groups have met with Richard Cordray, director of
the bureau to argue for more stringent rules on mortgage
modification. They also assembled a group of law professors who
argued in a meeting that it has the authority to do so,
according to two other people briefed on the session.  Under the qualified mortgage rule CFPB discussed with other
agencies, loans to borrowers whose debt exceeded 43 percent of
income or had non-prime interest rates would fall under a legal
standard giving borrowers or bondholders greater latitude to sue
if a lender didn’t adequately gauge ability to repay. This
standard would presume that lenders properly underwrote the loan
while allowing court challenges of that presumption.  About 80 percent of loans backed by  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , Freddie Mac
or government insurers such as the  Federal Housing
Administration  would qualify for a legal safe harbor under the
bureau’s plan, according to data from the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  