-- Oaktree’s Marks Said to Sell Malibu Estate in Record Deal
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-01-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/oaktree-s-marks-said-to-sell-malibu-estate-in-record-deal.html
Howard Marks , the chairman of  Oaktree
Capital Group LLC (OAK) , sold his 9.5-acre (3.8-hectare) estate in
Malibu,  California , for more than $75 million, a record for the
area, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  A Russian couple purchased the estate on Jan. 4 in an all-
cash deal, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the transaction was private. They plan to use it as a
U.S. vacation home, the person said.  The deal is the largest-ever brokered residential real
estate transaction in Malibu, according to the person. It is the
second-biggest in Southern California, trailing the $85 million
sale in 2011 of the  Los Angeles  mansion built by the late
television producer Aaron Spelling, the person said.  The estate features a 20,000-square-foot (1,860-square-
meter) main house with 14 bathrooms and eight bedrooms, two
guest houses, tennis courts and more than 300 feet (91 meters)
of beachfront. Marks had sought $125 million for the property,
which wasn’t listed publicly, the person said.  Alyssa Linn, a spokeswoman for Oaktree at Sard Verbinnen &
Co., declined to comment on the deal, which was reported
yesterday by the Wall Street Journal. Fred Bernstein at Westside
Estate Agency represented the sellers. Kurt Rappaport, the
agency’s co-founder, declined to comment.  Marks, co-founder of Los Angeles-based Oaktree, and his
wife at the end of 2008 completed a “major” renovation of the
property, the person with knowledge of the deal said. They
originally bought the home sitting on 7 acres in 2002 for $31
million from the estate of  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  founder  Mark Hughes ,
and at the time bought an adjacent 2.5-acre property for an
undisclosed amount, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  