-- Oasmia Soars on Global Dog Cancer Deal With Abbott Laboratories
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-01-07T13:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/oasmia-soars-on-global-dog-cancer-deal-with-abbott-laboratories.html
Oasmia Pharmaceutical AB (OASM)  rose the
most on record after it signed a license and distribution
agreement with  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  for two canine cancer drug
candidates, “significantly” expanding a 2009 deal.  Oasmia shares surged as much as 43 percent, the biggest
intraday advance since January 2006, and were up 38 percent at
6.90 kronor at 1:59 p.m. in Stockholm, giving the Uppsala,
Sweden-based company a market value of 564 million kronor ($86.3
million). Trading volume of about 304,000 shares was more than
nine times the three-month daily average.  Abbott will get exclusive rights to Paccal Vet and Doxophos
Vet in “essentially” the entire world, while Oasmia receives
an upfront payment and is eligible for further performance
payments of as much as $21.5 million, the company said in an e-
mailed statement today. If the products are commercialized,
Oasmia will get tiered royalties based on sales, it said.  “This agreement shows that Abbott really has faith in our
products and their potential,” Oasmia Chief Executive Officer
Julian Aleksov said in a telephone interview. “This is a new
market, but it’s a large one.”  Cancer is the leading cause of dogs’ disease-related death,
with as many 3 million new cases diagnosed annually, Oasmia
said. The company lost 25 percent of its value on March 3,
reaching the lowest price since the stock started trading in
early 2006, after withdrawing a marketing approval application
in  Europe  for Paccal Vet. The retraction followed concern
expressed by the European Medicines Agency’s veterinary medical
products committee regarding the treatment’s risks.  European Application  The Swedish biotechnology company intends to re-submit the
European application with additional data, and it has filed for
U.S. market authorization for the drug, Aleksov said.  Doxophos Vet has been granted Minor Use and Minor Species
designation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, a label
intended to make more treatments available to veterinarians and
pet owners to treat minor animal species and uncommon diseases
in major animal species.  The drugmaker, which doesn’t yet have products on the
market, sold 123 million kronor of shares before costs in
November to help fund  drug development  and the registration of
Paccal Vet. Oasmia stock lost 45 percent of its value last year.  Today’s agreement with  Abbott Park , Illinois-based Abbott
doesn’t include rights to Paccal Vet in  Russia ,  Japan  and the
 Commonwealth of Independent States , which is comprised of former
Soviet republics, while the rights to Doxophos Vet don’t include
Russia and the CIS, Oasmia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim McLaughlin in Stockholm  at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  