-- Obama Will Name Counterterror Chief Brennan as CIA Director
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-01-07T13:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/obama-will-nominate-counterterror-chief-brennan-as-cia-director.html
President  Barack Obama  will nominate
 John Brennan , his counterterrorism chief, as director of the
Central Intelligence Agency, White House spokesman Tommy Vietor
said.  Vietor said the nomination of Brennan would come today at
the same event where the president names former U.S. Senator
Chuck Hagel as his choice for defense secretary. The
announcement is scheduled for 1 p.m.  Brennan, 57, has deep roots in the CIA, having worked for
decades in its collection, covert action and analytic units. He
was a CIA station chief in Saudi Arabia and served as deputy
executive director of the agency under President  George W. Bush .
He has conducted the daily security briefing for Obama for the
past four years.  As deputy national security adviser for  homeland security 
and counterterrorism, Brennan helped plan and advise in the
killing of  Osama bin Laden . An expert on the Middle East, he has
overseen the efforts to destroy al Qaeda’s affiliates in such
places as Somalia and navigate the challenges of the Arab Spring
uprising.  “For four years, he has seen the president every day, and
been by his side for some of his toughest decisions, including
the decision to launch the bin Laden raid,” according to a
White House statement, and he is as close to Obama as any member
of the White House national security team.  Within the U.S., Brennan has been responsible for homeland
security, boosting aviation screening and refining terrorist
watch lists, and has supervised the government’s response to a
wide variety of concerns, such as tornadoes, cyber threats and
 Hurricane Sandy .  CIA Veteran  Brennan was with the CIA in various positions from 1980 to
2005. Before joining the White House national security staff, he
was president and chief executive of the Analysis Corporation of
McLean, Virginia, from 2005 to 2008.  Widely seen as the front-runner to head the agency at the
start of Obama’s first term, he withdrew his name from
consideration after Democratic activists expressed concerns over
his ties to the agency’s “enhanced interrogation” tactics
employed in the  Bush administration .  In an October 2008 interview, Brennan, who has served under
presidents of both parties, said he opposes waterboarding, or
simulated drowning, and any other interrogation practices that
used torture. The CIA was criticized for using waterboarding on
three terrorist suspects and has since discontinued the
practice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  