-- Obama's Second Term: More (and More Presidential) Polarization
-- B y   F r a n c i s   W i l k i n s o n
-- 2013-01-07T18:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/obama-s-second-term-more-and-more-presidential-polarization.html
President  Barack Obama 's anticipated nomination of Chuck Hagel as defense
secretary shows how the polarization of Obama's second term might differ from
that of his first. His first term was polarizing despite Obama's efforts. His
second could be polarizing because of them. After a robust re-election (and not only in the Electoral College; Obama won
by  5 million votes ), Obama is bound to look at lockstep Republican opposition in
a different light. Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham   described  the selection of
Hagel, who departed from the Republican foreign policy fold as soon as the  Iraq
War  went south, as an "in your face" move. So it is. As Peter Beinart  argues convincingly , the Hagel nomination
represents both an affront to Republicans, who have never honestly reckoned with
the disasters of  George W. Bush 's foreign policy, and to Democrats, who have
spent decades crafting foreign policy designed in part to avoid inciting
aggression not from abroad, but from Republicans. Obama may or may not believe Hagel is the best person for the job. But he
certainly is mindful of the challenge he has just laid down. Unless opponents
can restrict the debate on Hagel to his views -- real or imagined -- on  Israel ,
they risk litigating the disastrous policies that Hagel rejected and his most
 vociferous critics  embraced. An oddly similar battle awaits on the debt ceiling. Obama says that, unlike
2011, he will not negotiate on the debt ceiling. To hold that line, he will have
to explain -- repeatedly -- that spending is initiated in the House and passed
by Congress. In other words, the battle presents an opportunity to stick
Republicans with their share of blame for the deficit, a reckoning they have
evaded as assiduously as the one on Iraq and  Afghanistan . To prevail, Obama will
have to isolate Republicans with the short end of public approval: In short,
polarize the debate. This is hardly ideal. Republicans currently represent a minority of American
voters -- but a very large minority. Obama's first term was ugly in part because
Republicans worked so relentlessly, sometimes mindlessly, to break him. (One of
their favorite criticisms, ironically, was that he was  too polarizing , a claim
that applies to roughly  every corner  of U.S. politics.) If they were fierce
enough, they could generally count on Obama to retreat. From the Hagel nomination and debt-ceiling fight, we'll know whether that era
has ended. The question is no longer whether Obama can defeat the Republicans;
the election proved he could. The question is whether the tables have turned and
Obama will use the power of his office to intensify polarization -- with the
goal of breaking an increasingly brittle opposition party. (Francis Wilkinson is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board.  Follow 
him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at the  Ticker .