-- Obama Says Hagel With Brennan to Help U.S. Meet Threats
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-01-07T21:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/obama-says-hagel-with-brennan-help-u-s-meet-challenge-of-times.html
President  Barack Obama  said he’s
choosing former Senator Chuck Hagel as defense secretary and
counterterrorism adviser  John Brennan  as CIA director to help
the U.S. “meet the challenges of our time.”  Hagel, a Vietnam War veteran, “is the leader our troops
deserve” and will be able to manage the “tough fiscal
choices” necessary amid shrinking budgets, Obama said in
announcing the nominations today at the White House. Brennan’s
experience at the Central Intelligence Agency means he “knows
what our national security demands,” the president said.  Obama is filling his national security and foreign policy
team for a second term. The president previously announced his
choice of Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, as
secretary of state, replacing  Hillary Clinton .  The selections are subject to Senate confirmation, and some
Republicans are threatening a fight over the nomination of
Hagel. The 66-year-old former two-term Republican senator from
 Nebraska  would be taking over the Pentagon job as the Defense
Department is facing budget cuts and management of the full U.S.
withdrawal from  Afghanistan .  Obama urged the Senate to act quickly to avoid leaving any
national security gaps during the transition of department and
agency heads.  Hagel’s Critics  Hagel’s critics have focused their questions on whether he
sufficiently supports Israel and stepped-up U.S. sanctions on
 Iran , as well as on his previous remarks about the “bloated”
 defense budget .  It’s “an in-your-face nomination,” Senator  Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican and member of the Senate
Armed Services Committee, said yesterday on  CNN . “This will be
a controversial choice, and we’ll see where the votes go.”  Loren Thompson , chief operating officer at the Lexington
Institute, an Arlington, Virginia-based defense research
organization, predicted Hagel ultimately will be confirmed as
defense secretary, succeeding  Leon Panetta , because “when
Republicans look closely, they’ll discover he’s one of them.”  “Chuck Hagel was a very conservative senator, so there
really isn’t much there in his record to make most Republicans
dislike him,” Thompson said in a telephone interview.  Partisanship  While Hagel has come under fire for citing the influence of
the “Jewish lobby” in Washington on behalf of Israel, doubts
about his support for Israel may not be persuasive, Thompson
said. During Hagel’s eight years in the Senate, he “voted for
something like $40 billion in aid to Israel,” Thompson said.
The early opposition is “more partisanship than an assessment
of Hagel’s credentials,” he said.  Hagel told the Lincoln Journal Star newspaper in his home
state that his opponents have distorted his record on Israel.  There is “not one shred of evidence that I’m anti-Israeli,
not one vote that matters that hurt Israel,” Hagel said in the
interview published online today. What bothers some critics is
that “I have also questioned some very cavalier attitudes taken
about very complicated issues in the Middle East,” he said.
“The distortions about my record have been astounding.”  Brennan, 57, may face questions over his 25-year career in
the CIA and his support for administration policies such as
targeted drone strikes and about alleged national security leaks
from the administration.  He would replace retired Army General David Petraeus, who
resigned the CIA post in November following the revelation of an
extramarital affair.  CIA Career  Brennan worked in various posts involving data collection,
covert action and analysis, including as CIA station chief in
 Saudi Arabia . He served as deputy executive director of the
agency under Bush.  Arizona  Republican Senator  John McCain , who was tortured as
a prisoner of war in Vietnam, said in a statement that he
planned to examine what role Brennan may have had “in the so-
called enhanced interrogation programs while serving at the CIA
during the last administration, as well as his public defense of
those programs.”  Brennan was considered the front-runner to head the CIA
when Obama won election in 2008. He withdrew from consideration
after some Democrats voiced concerns about his links to the
agency under Bush and the CIA’s use of techniques such as
waterboarding, which simulates drowning, when questioning
captured or suspected terrorists.  In an October 2008 interview, Brennan said he opposed
waterboarding and any other interrogation practices that critics
regard as torture.  Intelligence Leaks  Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , the second-ranking Senate
Republican leader, has concerns about Brennan’s nomination,
because he hasn’t been “exonerated” yet as a source of leaks
of national security information that are the subject of a
Justice Department investigation, said Megan Mitchell, the
lawmaker’s press secretary.  Cornyn and some other Republicans say the White House
leaked intelligence information to bolster Obama’s national-
security credentials ahead of last November’s election.  Obama has denied that White House officials leaked
classified information, calling the notion that they would do so
“offensive.”  Brennan served as a campaign adviser to Obama in 2008 and
has been as close to the president as any member of the White
House national security team.  Obama Adviser  As deputy national security adviser for homeland security
and counterterrorism, Brennan helped plan and advise in the
killing of  Osama bin Laden  in 2011. A specialist on the  Middle
East , he has overseen the efforts to attack al Qaeda’s
affiliates in such places as Somalia and navigate the challenges
of the Arab Spring uprising.  “For four years, he has seen the president every day, and
been by his side for some of his toughest decisions, including
the decision to launch the bin Laden raid,” according to a
White House statement.  It was Brennan who the administration picked to deliver the
public narrative about the assault on bin Laden’s compound in
 Pakistan  and the killing of the al-Qaeda leader.  He’s also been an advocate of the use of drones to target
and kill suspected terrorists in Pakistan and the Horn of
Africa, which has drawn criticism from some Democrats and
Republicans. In a speech last year marking the anniversary of
the bin Laden killing, Brennan defended drone strikes as legal
and ethical.  “There is nothing in international law that bans the use
of remotely piloted aircraft for this purpose or that prohibits
us from using lethal force against our enemies outside of an
active battlefield,” Brennan said at the Woodrow Wilson Center
for International Scholars in Washington.  Hagel will face confirmation hearings before the Senate
Armed Services Committee, while Brennan goes before the Senate
Intelligence Committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  