-- Mobius Buying More Malaysian Stocks; May Sell Indonesian Banks
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2013-01-07T11:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/mobius-buying-more-malaysian-stocks-may-sell-indonesian-banks.html
Investor  Mark Mobius  said he’s buying
more shares of  Malaysia ’s companies on that nation’s economic
growth prospects while possibly cutting his holdings on
Indonesian banks and Indian natural-resources stocks on
valuations.  He’s purchasing shares of Malaysian palm oil companies,
banking, property, health-care and consumer stocks, Mobius, who
oversees more than $40 billion at Templeton  Emerging Markets 
Group, said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur today.  “Some of the valuations are rather expensive so you got to
be willing to move out of the expensive to the cheaper,” Mobius
said, referring to stocks in Indonesia and India. “Malaysia hit
a new high but there are still opportunities here. The
macroeconomic situation here looks good.”  Indonesia’s  Jakarta Finance index (JAKFIN)   traded  at 12.3 times
trailing earnings last week, the highest since November,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The BSE India Oil & Gas
Index traded at 11.1 times estimated profit, compared to its
one-year average of 10.5, the data show.  Indian stocks fell for the first time in five days today,
dragging benchmark indexes from a two-year high. The Jakarta
Composite Index lost 0.4 percent, snapping a six-day advance.  The benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  advanced 10
percent last year, its fourth straight annual gain and longest
rising streak since 1989. The gauge climbed 0.1 percent to
1,694.16 to a record close today. Shares in the gauge are
trading at 15.1 times estimated earnings, or a 37 percent
premium to the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   Malaysia’s gross domestic product growth may expand by as
much as 5.5 percent this year from an estimated 5 percent in
2012, the nation’s finance ministry forecast in a report in
September. Growth has been driven by a $444 billion program of
private sector-led construction projects announced by Prime
Minister Najib Razak in 2010.  “This current administration has been very good for the
markets,” Mobius said. “Investors perceive the current
government as being business-friendly. That’s been positive
generally and will continue to be so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  