-- Trial Opens for Officer Accused of Seeking News Corp. Bribes
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-07T15:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/officer-accused-of-offering-news-corp-details-on-hacking-probe.html
The first criminal trial stemming
from News Corp.’s bribery scandal began today with a senior
London police detective accused of trying to sell the News of
the World details about a phone-hacking probe into the tabloid.  April Casburn, a detective chief inspector with the
 Metropolitan Police Service , called the newspaper on Sept. 11,
2010, to reveal that a new voice-mail interception probe had
started a day earlier and six potential suspects were linked to
the tabloid, prosecutor Mark Bryant-Heron told a London court.  Casburn, who worked on counter-terrorism cases, admits she
made the call because she believed resources in her unit were
being wasted on investigating the phone-hacking scandal, which
she didn’t think was either a criminal matter or one that could
be successfully prosecuted. She denies seeking a bribe.  “She sought to undermine the investigation at the very
sensitive time of its launch,” Bryant-Heron said. While Casburn
claims the disclosure was altruistic, she chose to tell “the
very newspaper involved in the investigation.”  Casburn, who was charged in September with misconduct in
public office, which abused the public’s trust, is the first
person on trial since the start of Operation Elveden, one of
three police investigations into wrongdoing at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K.
newspapers. News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the News
of the World in July 2011 to help quell public anger over the
phone-hacking scandal, while the bribery probe has focused on
his Sun tabloid title.  Anonymous Call  In a phone call that lasted eight minutes and 37 seconds,
Casburn, who didn’t identify herself, offered to talk about the
probe to determine if there was any truth to news articles about
alleged phone hacking by News of the World journalists in 2005
and 2006, prosecutors say.  One of the suspects Casburn spoke of to the tabloid was
 Andy Coulson , its former editor who at the time was the chief
press aide to Prime Minister  David Cameron . Coulson resigned
from Cameron’s staff in 2011 and was later charged in the phone-
hacking and bribery probes.  Casburn only named two suspects, and Coulson had already
been identified in newspaper articles as being involved in phone
hacking, her lawyer, Patrick Gibbs, said. At the time the call
was made, Casburn was under a lot of stress and was being
bullied at work, Gibbs said.  Former News of the World employee Tim Wood took Casburn’s
phone call at the end of a 13-hour night shift and sent an e-
mail about the conversation to then-editor Ian Edmondson. Wood
told the jury today he had suspected the call might be part of
an undercover police probe because it was unusual for a caller
to claim to be a police officer and offer to sell information,
especially about phone hacking.  Sting Suspected  “I thought it might be somebody trying to catch the paper
out,” Wood said. “If it were caught on tape, it would get the
newspaper in a lot of trouble -- I thought it might be a sting
operation.”  Eight people have been charged in the phone-hacking probe,
including Edmondson and Rebekah Brooks, the former chief
executive officer of News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit.  Casburn said she was upset that former Deputy Prime
Minister  John Prescott  seemed to be interfering in the matter by
pressing for a new investigation into phone hacking, Wood said.
Prescott was later determined to be a victim of the News of the
World’s phone hacking, according to charges filed in July
against Coulson and Brooks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  