-- Oil Tanker Overseas Reymar Hits San Francisco’s Bay Bridge
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n   a n d   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-01-07T23:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/oil-tanker-overseas-reymar-strikes-san-francisco-s-bay-bridge.html
The oil tanker Overseas Reymar struck
“a glancing blow” to a tower of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay
Bridge after unloading crude at a  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  refinery
the day before.  The collision occurred at 11:20 a.m. local time, the U.S.
Coast Guard said in an e-mailed statement. No oil was released,
a notice to the  California  Emergency Management Agency shows.  The tanker was damaged above the waterline, with no breach
of the hull, said Captain Peter McIsaac, port agent for the San
Francisco Bar Pilots. The Bay Bridge’s “fendering system,”
made of timbers and steel backing to cushion impacts, was also
damaged, he said. All lanes on the bridge remain open to vehicle
traffic.  The collision was “not a direct hit, more of a glancing
blow, from looking at the damage,” McIsaac said by telephone
from San Francisco.  A state Transportation Department inspection team found no
structural or foundation damage to the bridge, the Coast Guard
said.  “Obviously, public safety is our No. 1 priority and, if
for some reason there’s an issue with the bridge, we will take
corrective actions to make sure that the public is safe,” Traci
Ruth, a Transportation Department spokeswoman in Oakland, said
by telephone.  Vessel Anchored  The Overseas Reymar is moored west of Yerba Buena Island
between Berkeley and San Francisco. It has a total deadweight of
69,636 tons when full, and was bound for Esmeraldas,  Ecuador ,
according to  IHS Inc. (IHS)  data. The vessel was scheduled to arrive
there Jan. 17.  The tanker had unloaded about 350,000 barrels of crude at
Royal Dutch Shell’s 158,000-barrel-a-day Martinez refinery
before leaving the plant’s wharf at 10 p.m. local time
yesterday, Kimberly Windon, a Shell spokeswoman in Houston, said
by e-mail.  The Overseas Reymar passed west of Berkeley earlier today
before crashing into the Bay Bridge, according to IHS.
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  chartered the tanker in April to carry crude oil
from South and Central America to the U.S. West Coast, the data
show.  Tanker Ownership  The Marshall Islands-flagged tanker is owned by OSG Ship
Management U.K., according to the Coast Guard. Windon said the
Coast Guard had previously said the ship was owned by Norton
Lilly International.  A container ship, the Cosco Busan, slammed into the Bay
Bridge in 2007, spilling 53,000 gallons of oil. The vessel’s
pilot was under the influence of various prescription drugs and
had a history of sleep apnea and a drunken driving arrest when
he ran the ship into the bridge in heavy fog, the National
Transportation Safety Board said in February 2009.  The Coast Guard is investigating today’s crash, Petty
Officer Pamela Boehland said by telephone from Alameda,
California. The safety board is “monitoring the situation,”
Eric Weiss, a spokesman for the agency in  Washington , said by
telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Eliot Caroom in  New York  at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  