-- Oil Steady on Debt Ceiling Concern, Supply Expectations
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-01-07T21:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/oil-declines-on-u-s-debt-ceiling-concerns.html
Oil was little changed amid concern
that Congress will fail to raise the U.S. debt ceiling, hurting
economic confidence, and on speculation that supplies in the
world’s biggest crude-consuming country will rebound.  Futures traded in a 93-cents-a-barrel range as Republicans
vowed to require spending cuts in exchange for increasing the
U.S. borrowing limit. Lawmakers struck a compromise last week
that averted a package of spending cuts and tax gains known as
the fiscal cliff. Crude supplies in the week ended Dec. 28 were
up 9.2 percent from a year earlier, Energy Department data show.  “Investors are concerned about the debt ceiling and other
political issues may hurt the economy,” said Kyle Cooper,
director of research for IAF Advisors in Houston. “It’s hard to
see how prices can climb much above $93 with these concerns in
the background.”  Crude oil for February delivery rose 10 cents to $93.19 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since Sept. 18. Prices are down 8.2 percent from this
point last year. Trading volume was 23 percent below the 100-day
average.  Brent oil for February settlement advanced 9 cents to end
the session at $111.40 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. Brent volume was 22 percent above the 100-day
average.  The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $18.21
to West Texas Intermediate oil traded in New York, down 1 cent
from Jan. 4 and the lowest since Sept. 24. The Brent bonus has
dropped more than $7 a barrel since Nov. 15 on the approach of
service expansion from the Seaway pipeline connecting Cushing,
 Oklahoma , with the Gulf Coast and rising North Sea production.  Capacity Gain  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  plan to
resume service on the 500-mile (805-kilometer) Seaway link at
full rates this week after more than doubling the line’s
capacity to 400,000 barrels a day from 150,000.  “The reopening of an expanded Seaway pipeline is
supportive of WTI and will put downward pressure on Brent,”
Cooper said. “It will help drain record stockpiles at Cushing
and will get barrels where they are needed.”  Republicans plan to use the need to raise the nation’s
$16.4 trillion debt ceiling to force President  Barack Obama  to
accept cuts in entitlement programs such as Medicare.  “We’re taking a bit of a pause after avoiding the fiscal
cliff last week,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in St. Louis, which oversees
$1.4 billion. “Inventories are high in the U.S. but that’s a
local phenomenon. The global demand outlook is looking good.”  U.S. Inventories  U.S. crude supplies tumbled 11.1 million barrels to 359.9
million barrels in the week ended Dec. 28, leaving stockpiles at
the lowest level since September, last week’s Energy Department
report showed. Stockpiles have decreased during December for the
past six years because of inventory shifts for tax and
accounting purposes. Companies in Gulf Coast states minimize
supplies at the end of the year to reduce local taxes.  “The big supply drop is being chalked up to end-of-the-
year tax considerations,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It
doesn’t change the fact that we have ample supplies and anemic
demand.”  Hedge funds raised bullish bets on WTI to the highest level
in 11 weeks before lawmakers passed a bill to undo the automatic
tax increases that threatened the U.S. economy. Obama signed the
bill, which protected 99 percent of households from higher
income taxes, on Jan. 2, a day after it was passed by Congress.  Money managers boosted net-long positions by 11 percent in
the seven days ended Jan. 1 to the most since Oct. 16, the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders
report showed on Jan. 4.  Brent Wagers  In  London , hedge funds and other money managers raised
bullish bets on Brent crude to their highest level in nine
months, according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 139,111 lots in
the week ended Dec. 31, the London-based exchange said today in
its weekly Commitment of Traders report.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 332,316
contracts as of 3:04 p.m. Volume totaled 511,030 contracts on
Jan. 4, the highest level since Dec. 14. Open interest was 1.48
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  