-- Oil Trades Near Four-Month High on Euro-Area Confidence
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-01-08T13:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/oil-trades-near-four-month-high-as-run-rates-supply-seen-rising.html
Oil rose, trading near the highest
level in almost four months in New York on estimates that U.S.
refiners boosted crude use and amid signs of an economic
recovery in  Europe .  West  Texas  Intermediate futures advanced as much as 0.7
percent, the third consecutive daily increase. Refineries
probably raised their average run rate last week by 0.2
percentage points to 90.6 percent, according to a Bloomberg
survey ahead of an Energy Department report tomorrow. Economic
confidence in the euro area increased more than economists
forecast in December, data from the European Commission in
Brussels showed today.  “Oil has a moderate up-side bias due to improving market
sentiment and a slow tightening of the supply-demand balance,”
said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt ,
who predicts Brent will rise to $118 a barrel this quarter.
“But tightening doesn’t mean the market is tight, just that the
oversupply is shrinking.”  Crude for February delivery advanced to as much as $93.80,
its strongest since Jan. 2, and was up 40 cents at $93.59 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 1:04 p.m. London time. The contract increased 10 cents to
$93.19 yesterday, the highest settlement since Sept. 18.  Brent for February settlement added 78 cents to $112.18 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $18.66 to WTI.
The difference shrank to $18.21 yesterday, the narrowest closing
level since Sept. 24.  Refinery Maintenance  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro
region rose to 87 from 85.7 in November, the European Commission
in Brussels said. Economists had forecast an increase to 86.3,
according to the median of 24 estimates in a  Bloomberg survey .  Gasoline futures rose yesterday as some U.S. refineries cut
production of fuels during maintenance. Gasoline for February
delivery increased 0.5 percent to $2.7774 a gallon on the Nymex.  Motiva Enterprises LLC shut a 325,000 barrel-a-day crude
unit at its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery.  BP Plc (BP/)  began work on
the fluid catalytic cracker at its 266,000 barrel-a-day Carson
plant in  California .  U.S. gasoline inventories probably gained by  2.6 million
barrels  last week, according to the median of six analyst
estimates in the Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s Energy
Department report. Distillate supplies, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably increased by 1.65 million
barrels, the survey shows.  Stockpiles Rise  Crude stockpiles probably rebounded  1.4 million barrels 
after tumbling  11.1 million barrels  in the week ended Dec. 28.
Supplies have decreased during December and risen in January for
the past six years because of inventory shifts for tax and
accounting purposes. Companies in U.S. Gulf Coast states
minimize supplies at the end of the year to reduce local taxes.  The American Petroleum Institute will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  The premium of Brent oil to WTI has narrowed this week as
 Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  prepare to
resume service on the 500-mile (805-kilometer) Seaway link at
full rates after more than doubling the line’s capacity to
400,000 barrels a day from 150,000.  Seaway Pipeline  Higher capacity on Seaway, which runs from Cushing,
 Oklahoma , to Freeport, Texas, may reduce a glut in the U.S.
Midwest and shrink imports to the Gulf Coast, home to about half
of the country’s refining facilities. Supplies at Cushing, the
delivery point for WTI and the nation’s biggest storage hub,
rose to a record 49.75 million barrels on Dec. 28, Energy
Department data show.  WTI slid 7.1 percent last year as a shale boom deepened the
glut and left the U.S. benchmark crude at an average $17.47 a
barrel below Brent, compared with a premium of about 95 cents in
the 10 years through 2010. Brent, the marker grade for more than
half the world’s oil, rose 3.5 percent in 2012.  China ’s exports probably gained 5 percent year-on-year in
December, up from 2.9 percent in November, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before data from the Customs General
Administration in Beijing. Imports rose 3 percent after being
unchanged the prior month, the survey shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  