-- Mol Leads BUX to Longest Rally in Nine Years: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-01-07T16:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/mol-leads-bux-to-longest-rally-in-nine-years-budapest-mover.html
Mol Nyrt. (MOL) ,  Hungary ’s largest refiner,
rose to a one-month high, leading the benchmark BUX  index  to the
longest rally in almost nine years.  Mol’s shares advanced 2.2 percent to 18,295 forint by the
end of trading in Budapest, the highest closing price since Nov.
30. The BUX, in which Mol has the highest  weighting  at 33
percent, added 0.6 percent, extending gains in the past 10
trading sessions to 6.6 percent. The last time the BUX rose for
as many days was in March 2004, the year when Hungary joined the
European Union.  Emerging-market stocks advanced at the start of 2013 after
U.S. lawmakers passed a bill that averted spending cuts and tax
gains that had threatened the world’s largest economy. While
emerging-market  stocks jumped  4.8 percent in December as the
 Federal Reserve  carried out its monthly bond purchases to boost
liquidity, the BUX fell 0.5 percent on concern tax increases and
energy price cuts imposed by Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor
Orban ’s cabinet will sap corporate profits.  “The Hungarian equities market became quite neglected
mainly because of economic policy uncertainty,” Gergely Gabler,
a Budapest-based analyst at broker Equilor Befektetesi Zrt.,
said by telephone today. “Those risks have now started to get
priced out a bit.”  The Hungarian government, which is forcing energy suppliers
to reduce prices for households by 10 percent as of this month,
is considering further cuts, according to Janos Fonagy, state
secretary at the Development Ministry, Nepszabadsag reported
Jan. 5.  The price reduction probably won’t directly influence most
of Mol’s businesses, said Gabler, who also cited technical
reasons for Mol’s rebound.  Mol’s rally in late December and today, with sideways
movement in between, shows a bullish “flag” formation, Gabler
said. A bull flag formation, so-called because the price
movements resemble a flag on a pole, is a continuation pattern
which occurs during an uptrend. The height of the pole may be
added to the “breakout” level to determine how high a security
may advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  