-- Lone Star Begins Raising $5 Billion for Property Fund
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-01-07T22:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/lone-star-begins-raising-5-billion-for-distressed-property-fund.html
Lone Star Funds, the distressed real
estate investor led by founder  John Grayken , has begun raising a
new property fund with a target of $5 billion.  The Dallas-based company has started seeking pledges for
Fund VIII, with initial commitments scheduled for completion at
the end of February, said Anthony Breault, senior investment
officer for real estate at  Oregon ’s pension fund, one of Lone
Star’s largest backers. The state plans to decide in the next
few weeks whether to invest, he said.  “The decision is primarily a staffing allocation and time
consideration,” he said in an e-mail. “I expect Lone Star will
be able to achieve the targeted fund raise, given enough time.”  Lone Star, which buys financially distressed assets to
restructure and sell at a profit, has been making purchases in
the U.S. and overseas. It agreed last month to buy commercial
properties from the German government valued at about 1.1
billion euros ($1.4 billion) including debt, and earlier today
Dutch property company  Wereldhave NV (WHA)  agreed to sell all of its
U.S. real estate to Lone Star for about $720 million.  Lone Star is replenishing capital after investing most of
the $4.6 billion in Fund VII that it finished raising in July
2011. The fund’s investments included single-family home loans
and corporate debt.  Jed Repko, a spokesman for Lone Star at the New York-based
public relations firm Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher,
declined to comment.  Simultaneous Fundraising  Lone Star previously raised two funds simultaneously: Fund
VII, to focus on residential loans and property lenders, and
Real Estate Fund II, for commercial assets. Fund II finished
raising $5.5 billion in May 2011, a person with knowledge of the
situation said at the time.  Investors expect Lone Star to start raising a successor to
Fund II when the current fund has invested more of its money,
Breault said.  The plans for Fund VIII were reported last week by Private
Equity International.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  