-- Long Island Power Should Be Private, New York Panel Says
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-01-07T21:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/long-island-power-should-be-private-new-york-panel-says.html
The  Long Island  Power Authority
should be converted into an investor-owned utility to end poor
management practices that exacerbated slow and halting repairs
of blackouts from October’s  Hurricane Sandy , a New York state
investigative panel  said  today.  Privatization would make management of the state-owned
electrical system answerable to the New York Public Service
Commission, which should be empowered by the legislature with
stronger sanctions including the ability to revoke a utility
franchise, the panel told Governor  Andrew Cuomo  today in a
preliminary briefing.  Cuomo, a Democrat, convened the so-called Moreland
Commission in November with the power to subpoena witnesses,
after more than two million homes and businesses lost
electricity from the storm, some for as long as 21 days. Some of
the panel’s recommendations will need legislation and Cuomo said
he’s waiting for its final report. No date was given for its
release.  “The key to problems at LIPA was a fundamentally
dysfunctional management structure,”  Benjamin Lawsky , the
commission co-chairman and superintendent of the New York
Department of Financial Services, said at a meeting in  Albany 
that was broadcast on the Internet. “The commission found that
the only solution is for fundamental change at LIPA and how
power is delivered on Long Island.”  Outsourced Operations  The state-controlled authority owns Long Island’s
electrical lines and contracted with  National Grid Plc (NG/)  to
operate them. Under such divided and “dysfunctional”
management, LIPA let consultants, rather than the utility
operator, guide its spending and failed to properly replace
aging poles or trim away overhanging trees as recommended in
state studies, Lawsky said.  Bringing day to day operations into LIPA may not improve
management and would add 2,000 employees to the state pension
system, Lawsky said.  LIPA was formed in 1985 by state lawmakers because of a
“lack of confidence” in Long Island Lighting Co.’s ability to
supply power reliably and economically after its investment in
the ill-fated Shoreham nuclear plant. Shoreham, the most
expensive U.S. nuclear power project, never operated
commercially after the state raised questions about the ability
to evacuate Long Island in the event of a radioactive release.  LIPA bought the lighting company’s remaining assets in
1998, including its  power lines  and  power plants .  The authority has about $7 billion in debt and $4 billion
of assets, Lawsky said.  New Contract  National Grid operates, maintains and repairs LIPA’s power
lines through Dec. 31, 2013. The authority picked in 2011  Public
Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG) , owner of  New Jersey ’s largest
utility, to take over the contract in 2014. The management
structure is unique to LIPA.  Public Service is preparing to manage LIPA’s lines and
intends to work with Cuomo and legislators as needed, Karen
Johnson, a spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.  LIPA is “reviewing the report and will continue to
cooperate with the state and the Moreland Commission to do what
is in the best interest of Long Island’s ratepayers,” Mark
Gross, an authority spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The New York Public Service Commission, which regulates
investor-owned utilities, needs the authority to impose stronger
sanctions to compel better performance, said Robert Abrams, the
other commission co-chairman and a former state attorney
general.  Maximum Penalty  The maximum penalty for violating the commission’s orders
is $100,000 a day, Abrams said. A more effective sanction would
be 0.02 percent of gross revenue, or about $2 million a day for
 Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , the state’s largest utility owner, he
said.  Storm response plans should be subject to commission
approval and compliance enforced by more staff, Abrams said.  “Superstorm Sandy devastated our region,” Chris Olert, a
Con Edison spokesman, said in an e-mail. “All of us must
participate in the discussions on infrastructure investments and
new policies.”  Higher Costs  An October 2011 strategic  review  of LIPA by the Brattle
Group concluded that privatization may raise costs by $438
million a year because an investor-owned utility can’t issue
tax-exempt bonds. Cost of capital for the privatized utility
would be 10.73 percent compared to LIPA’s current cost of
capital of about 5 percent, it concluded.  A 10-year LIPA bond backed by bill payments traded Dec. 31
with an average yield of 2.27 percent, 0.58 percentage point
above an index of benchmark municipals with similar maturity,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That yield difference has
narrowed from when the bonds first priced in June with a spread
of 0.81 percentage point.  Privatizing the Long Island authority “is just not
realistic and practical,” said Matthew Cordaro, a former chief
operating officer of Long Island Lighting. Refinancing LIPA’s
tax-exempt bonds would raise power rates that are already among
the highest in the country, he said today in a telephone
interview.  Converting the authority into a full-service municipal
utility that employs professional managers is a better option,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  