-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Fluctuates After Last Week’s Gain
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-01-07T07:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/top-oil-market-news-crude-fluctuates-after-last-week-s-gain.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Fluctuates After Biggest Weekly Gain in Almost Four Months  Oil fluctuated in New York after capping the biggest weekly
advance in almost four months amid signs of economic growth in
the U.S., the world’s largest crude- consuming nation.  Hedge Fund Oil Bets Jump as Fiscal Cliff Averted: Energy Markets  Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on West Texas Intermediate
oil to the highest level in 11 weeks before U.S. lawmakers
passed a bill to undo automatic tax increases and spending cuts
that threatened the  U.S. economy .  Shell Leads S. Africa on Record Oil Rush as Coal Falters: Energy  South Africa , the African continent’s economic engine, is
on the cusp of an oil rush never before seen in the country as
burgeoning energy demand exposes the vulnerability of its
dependence on coal.  Exxon Hedges Oil Sands With Offshore Project: Corporate Canada  Exxon Mobil Corp.’s plans to develop a $14 billion
underwater oil field off Newfoundland’s coast allows the world’s
biggest energy company to hedge against discounted crude from
Canada’s  oil sands .  Asian Gasoil Crack at Highest Level in a Week: Oil Products  Asia gasoil’s premium to Dubai was at the highest level in
more than a week. Fuel oil’s discount to the Middle Eastern
crude widened.  Libya Crackdown Makes Benghazi Ghost Town as Police Fight Gunmen  As night fell in Libya’s eastern city of Benghazi, masked
men pulled a senior officer from his car at a traffic light.  Qatar’s Tasweeq Offers a Year’s Supply of Condensates From April  Qatar International Petroleum Marketing Co., or Tasweeq,
offered to sell a year’s supply of deodorized field condensate
and low-sulfur condensate starting from April, according to a
notice sent to potential buyers.  Energy Boosts Office Market as Pittsburgh Rents at Decade High  Leasing demand from natural-gas and other energy companies
is helping to bolster the U.S. office market and drive growth in
cities such as Pittsburgh, where rents are at their highest in
more than a decade.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  BP to Resume Operations at Texas City Fluid Catalytic Converter  BP Plc plans to resume normal operations at a fluid
catalytic converter at its Texas City, Texas, oil refinery
beginning at 6 p.m. local time today.  California Diesel Advances as BP Carson Refinery Plans Flaring  Spot diesel in California strengthened against futures
after BP Plc reported planned flaring at the Carson refinery,
California’s second-largest.  Gulf Crude Premiums Weaken as Brent-WTI Differential Narrows  Light  Louisiana  Sweet and Heavy Louisiana Sweet oils from
the U.S. Gulf of Mexico lost value on the  spot market  as the
margin between Brent crude and West Texas Intermediate narrowed.  Pemex Minatitlan Refinery Controls Small Fire, Output Unaffected  Petroleos Mexicanos  said a small fire that broke out at its
Minatitlan refinery in Mexico’s Veracruz state has been
extinguished, according to a statement posted on its website.  California Spot Gasoline Declines on Short-Term Valero Repairs  Spot gasoline in Los Angeles weakened against futures for a
fourth day on speculation that Valero Energy Corp. will start
two production units at the Wilmington refinery in Southern
California after short-term repairs.  CVR Said to Shut Alkylation Unit at Wynnewood, Oklahoma, Plant  CVR Energy Inc.’s Wynnewood refinery in Oklahoma has shut
an alkylation unit for unplanned work, according to a person
familiar with the situation.  Valero Said to Plan Meraux Refinery Shutdown for Late February  Valero Energy Corp. is planning to shut units at the Meraux
refinery in Louisiana for planned work that will start in late
February, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.  Asia Naphtha Crack Rebounds; Vitol Sells Gasoline: Oil Products  Asia’s naphtha crack spread rose for the first time in four
days, signaling increased profit for refiners. Vitol Group sold
gasoline and fuel oil in Singapore, the region’s biggest oil-
trading center.  Bharat Petroleum Restarts Kochi Refinery Crude Unit After Work  Bharat Petroleum Corp., India’s second-biggest state
refiner, restarted a crude distillation unit at its Kochi plant
late last month after completing planned maintenance work,
according to two company officials.  Gulf Coast Gasoline Advances on Process Upsets, Alon Big Spring  Gasoline gained on the U.S. Gulf Coast after a process
upset at Phillips 66’s Borger refinery and as a unit of Alon USA
Energy Inc.’s Big Spring plant is shut for repair.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 2.0 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
 Japan  fell 2.0 percent to 9.69 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the Middle East, Africa and the
Americas. Figures represent outright prices in dollars a barrel,
or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Solars Top Steepest Jump in 3 Months on Economy:  China  Overnight  Chinese stocks climbed a fifth week in New York, rallying
the most since September, as manufacturing data added to signs
the economy is recovering and as the U.S. budget deal boosted
China’s second-largest trading partner.  China Starts $481 Million Nuclear Power Project, Xinhua Says  China started construction of a 3 billion  yuan  ($481
million) nuclear power reactor last month, the Xinhua News
Agency reported today, citing the Chinese energy company in
charge of the project.  Malaysia Palm Oil Reserves Seen Near Record as Exports Drop (1)  Palm oil stockpiles in Malaysia, the world’s biggest
producer after Indonesia, probably held near a record last month
as exports declined amid low demand, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Futures dropped.  Uranium Rebound Seen as Japan Considers Nuclear: Energy Markets  Uranium is poised to rebound from a second annual decline
as Japan considers restarting its atomic plants almost two years
after the Fukushima disaster and China pushes ahead with the
world’s biggest nuclear building program.  Gas at $8 May Lure Reliance to Start New Fields: Corporate India  Reliance Industries Ltd., sitting on untapped natural gas
reserves off India’s east coast, will be able to generate profit
from new fields if the government agrees to double prices, a
person familiar with the matter said.  Bulls Add to Wagers for First Time Since November: Commodities  Speculators increased their bullish commodity wagers for
the first time since November as signs of accelerating growth in
China and the U.S. drove prices higher for a fourth consecutive
week.  Coffee Deal Wave Sparks Krispy Kreme-to-Jamba Appetite: Real M&A  Following the biggest surge in takeovers of restaurant and
coffee companies since the last recession, Krispy Kreme
Doughnuts Inc. and Jamba Inc. could be next on the menu.  Texas Lawmakers Enter Budget Debate Flush With Energy Boom Cash  Legislators in Texas, the biggest energy producer among U.S.
states, will begin deliberating its next two-year budget with a
surplus that may near the $8.8 billion record set in 2007.  Maersk Wants Hong Kong to Ban Dirty Ship Fuel to Fight Pollution  Maersk Line, the world’s biggest container-shipping company,
threatened to stop using cleaner fuel at  Hong Kong  port from
next year if the government doesn’t mandate higher quality oil
for carriers berthing in the city.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Fall Most in Two Weeks on Value; Yen, Gold Advance  Asian stocks fell as investors speculated a rally that
drove valuations to their highest level since June 2010 was
excessive relative to earnings prospects. The yen strengthened
from a 2 1/2 year low and gold rebounded.  Yen Rallies From 2 1/2-Year Low on Sign Currency Is Oversold  The yen rallied from a 2 1/2 year low against the dollar
after a technical gauge showed it was the most oversold in more
than a decade.  Westpac Tops Wells Fargo as Most Accurate Forecaster: Currencies  Westpac Banking Corp. edged out  Wells Fargo & Co . as the
most-accurate foreign-exchange forecaster by predicting
recession in Europe and a continuation of the sovereign-debt
crisis that weighed on the euro.  Asian Stocks Drop Following Seven-Week Rally; Nomura Retreats  Asian stocks fell, with the regional benchmark retreating
after posting its longest streak of weekly gains since March
last year.  Odey Raising Chicken Coop Bets on Banks as Hedge Fund Yields 24%  Crispin Odey is fumbling around a storage room in a
Georgian town house in London’s Mayfair district, home to Odey
Asset Management LLP, his $7 billion hedge-fund firm.  Gold Rebounds as Prices at Cheapest in Four Months Spur Demand  Gold gained, rebounding from the worst run of weekly losses
since 2004, as a drop to the cheapest in more than four months
lured buyers amid record low interest rates in the U.S. Silver,
platinum and palladium advanced.  LBMA’s Best Gold Forecaster Hochreiter Says Bull Market Is Over  Gold’s 12-year  bull market  is over as U.S. economic growth
means investors will switch focus to precious metals that
benefit from expansion, the top forecaster in the London Bullion
Market Association’s 2012 poll said.  Hagel Poses Tougher Fight Than Kerry as Obama Shapes World Team  President  Barack Obama ’s expected nomination of Chuck Hagel
as defense secretary poses a tougher confirmation fight for the
former Republican senator within his own party than that faced
by Obama’s choice for secretary of state, Democratic Senator
 John Kerry .  McConnell Takes Taxes Off the Table in Debt Limit Negotiations  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said further tax
changes are off the table as lawmakers and the president gear up
for a fight next month over raising the U.S. government’s debt
limit.  SPORTS  Warne Gets One-Game Ban, Fine for Altercation in Twenty20 Match  Shane Warne  was banned for one game and fined A$4,500
($4,700) by Cricket Australia after being found guilty of three
out of four code of behavior breaches for his Twenty20 match
altercation with West Indian Marlon Samuels.  PGA Tour’s Season-Opening Event Canceled for Third Straight Day  The U.S. PGA Tour’s season-opening Tournament of Champions
in Hawaii was canceled by windy conditions for the third
straight day, forcing organizers to plan for a Tuesday finish in
Maui.  Juventus Loses in Serie A; Barcelona Wins 4-0 to Extend Lead  Juventus’ lead in Serie A was cut to five points after the
defending champion slipped to a 2-1 home defeat against
Sampdoria. Barcelona beat Espanyol 4-0 to move 11 points clear
atop Spanish soccer’s La Liga.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       92.82  -0.27  -0.3  Nymex     Feb.
 Brent Crude  ($/Bbl)    111.23  -0.08  -0.1    Ice February
Gasoil ($/Ton)         934.25  +3.50  +0.4    Ice     Feb.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       276.07  -0.36  -0.1  Nymex     Feb.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.31  +0.03  +0.8  Nymex     Feb.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    111.14  -0.22  -0.2    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            301.92  +0.15  +0.0  Nymex     Feb.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            80.59  +0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,648.90  -1.5
MSCI World Index     1,369.29  -0.1  Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  