-- Morrison Sales Drop Worsens at Christmas on Competition
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-07T08:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/morrison-sales-decline-worsens-at-christmas-as-discounters-gain.html
William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW) 
reported a worsening sales decline over the key Christmas period
as the growth of discounters such as Aldi and the lack of an
online offering led to an erosion of market share.  Sales at stores open at least a year fell 2.5 percent in
the six weeks ended Dec. 30, the Bradford, England-based company
said today in a statement, reporting figures on a basis that
excludes fuel and value-added tax. That compared with the third-
quarter’s 2.1 percent drop and matched the median estimate of 10
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The sales decline is “a clearly very disappointing figure
for its management and investors alike,” said Clive Black, an
analyst at Shore Capital in London with a sell recommendation.
“We believe that the business has lost touch with some of its
core customers, but not attracted new ones.”  Morrison, whose stores are mostly located in the north of
 England , has lost shoppers amid a shift by cash-strapped
consumers toward discount formats and online. The grocer needs
to “shout” about specialist areas such as in-store fishmongers
and offer more effective promotions to turn around sales, Chief
Executive Officer Dalton Philips said on a conference call.  Morrison rose as much as 1.4 percent to 260.4 pence in
London trading as the company said its financial performance for
the year ending this month will be “in line” with its own
expectations, allaying concern that it may lower guidance. The
consensus estimate for underlying pretax profit is about 913
million pounds ($1.46 billion), Finance Director Richard Pennycook said.  Online, Convenience  “We’ve been working the business hard, keeping things very
tight all year and you’ll have heard me say on Christmas trading
statements before, they are not make or break for the whole year
as they are for other retailers like fashion,” Pennycook said.  Sales were lower than anticipated, Chief Executive Officer
Dalton Philips said, citing the “accelerating importance” of
the online and convenience areas, where Morrison trails the
market. The grocer is “looking very closely” at online food
operations, he said, adding “we like what we’ve seen so far.”  Morrison’s market share slid to 11.7 percent in the 12
weeks ended Nov. 27, from 12.3 percent a year earlier, according
to researcher  Kantar Worldpanel .  Its Christmas performance is expected by analysts to trail
growth at larger competitors  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , both
of whom are scheduled to report later this week.  Shoppers are feeling worse off and are constantly seeking
deals and switching to own-brand products, Philips said.  “We’re not getting the cut-through that we would like to
in our promotional mechanics,” he said. “We have got to do
things differently” he said, citing programs such as the Fuel
Britannia promotion, where shoppers can get money off gasoline
purchases for spending a set amount in Morrison stores.  The stock was little changed at 257.1 pence at 8:53 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
Or  sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  