-- Emerging Stocks Retreat From Valuations at September High
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-07T23:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/most-emerging-stocks-fall-led-by-tech-stocks-drugmakers-gain.html
Emerging-market stocks declined after
a seven-week rally sent valuations to the most expensive level
since September. Technology shares slumped before earnings this
week from companies including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   Samsung sank for a third day in Seoul.  Largan Precision
Co. (3008) , which makes camera lenses, tumbled 7 percent in Taipei
after Deutsche Bank AG said the company’s sales missed its
forecast.  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  drove a  drop  in
Brazilian power producers on concern low water levels at
hydropower dams may compel the country to ration electricity.
Istanbul’s ISE National 100 Index rallied to a record high.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.2 percent to
1,075.76 after seven weeks of gains, the longest rising stretch
since October 2010. The measure traded at 12.63 times trailing
earnings last week, the highest level since the week ended Sept.
28. About 49 companies on the developing-markets gauge are
scheduled to post results in the next two weeks including
 Infosys Ltd. (INFY)  and  HTC Corp. (2498) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The markets look a little overbought,”  David Semple , who
helps oversee about $37 billion as director of international
equity at Van Eck Global, said by phone in  New York . “The key
is to see whether earnings start to follow the modestly better
growth trajectory for many countries.”  Brazil Drops  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, declined 0.8
percent to $44.65 in New York, after gaining 3 percent last
week. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose for the first time this year,
adding 4 percent to 18.53.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index dropped 0.9 percent in  Sao Paulo , as
analysts lowered forecasts for 2013 economic growth, while the
Mexico’s  IPC Index (MEXBOL) , which hit a record-high Dec. 18, climbed 0.1
percent. Poland’s WIG20 Index fell 0.9 percent, while Hungary’s
 BUX Index (BUXETF)  gained 0.6 percent, advancing for a 10th day, the
longest rally since 2004.  Turkey’s benchmark rose 0.8 percent, to the highest level
on record. Russian markets open for 2013 trading tomorrow.  The Czech koruna weakened 0.6 percent against the euro, its
biggest retreat since Sept. 18, as a steeper-than-expected drop
in industrial output fanned speculation the central bank will
sell the currency to help exporters. India’s rupee lost 0.3
percent against the dollar, weakening for a third day.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  widened 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 250 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Bull Market  China ’s CSI 300 Index entered a  bull market  after rallying
20 percent from its 2012 low amid signs of an economic recovery
in the world’s second-largest economy. Taiwan’s Taiex index
retreated 0.7 percent. Pakistan’s KSE 100 Index dropped 0.9
percent. Vietnam’s VN Index jumped 1.9 percent, the most among
Asia’s largest equity markets, on speculation the government
will take steps to help companies cope with a slowing economy.  Equity trading volumes were higher than average in Korea
and China, with about 38 percent more shares of Kospi companies
changing hands versus the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Volumes were 27 percent higher on the
 Shanghai  Composite Index.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has climbed 1.9 percent
this year, while the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  is up 2.1 percent. The
MSCI Emerging Markets Small Cap Index advanced for an 11th day,
the longest winning streak since July 2007.  ‘Nice Rally’  “Markets that had enjoyed a nice rally recently are giving
back part of their gains,” said Heo Pil Seok, chief executive
officer at Midas International Asset Management Ltd. in Seoul,
which oversees $5.5 billion. “The earnings season in some
countries kicks off soon, which will be keenly watched by
investors at least until early February.”  Samsung Electronics, the world’s biggest maker of
smartphones and televisions, dropped 0.3 percent, taking its
three-day slide to 3.6 percent. The company will announce its
preliminary estimate for fourth-quarter earnings tomorrow.  Largan Precision tumbled by the daily limit in Taipei to
lead declines in the broader emerging markets gauge. Deutsche
Bank said in a report the company’s fourth-quarter sales of
NT$8.59 billion ($296 million) is lower than the brokerage’s
estimate of NT$8.91 billion. Taiwan Semiconductor lost 1
percent.  HSBC’s Rating  Preferred shares of Eletrobras, as Brazil’s third-biggest
electric utility by market value is known, fell 4.7 percent to
lead declines on the Bovespa, and all but one stock on the
benchmark’s  Electric Energy index  tumbled. President  Dilma
Rousseff  called an emergency meeting to discuss the level of
water reservoirs in Brazil because of risk of energy rationing,
Folha de S.Paulo reported today, citing people in government it
didn’t identify.  Cetip SA Mercados Organizados, Brazil’s biggest securities
clearing house, fell 1.3 percent after HSBC Holdings Plc lowered
its recommendation on the stock to neutral from overweight.  Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 3.26 percent
this year, according to the median forecast in a Jan. 4 central
bank survey of about 100 economists published today. Analysts
had forecast expansion of 3.3 percent a week earlier.  The MSCI Emerging Markets /Information Technology Index
fell 0.7 percent, the most among 10  industry groups . A gauge of
health-care stocks climbed 0.5 percent to a record close.
Chinese health-care shares rose on speculation medicine demand
will increase after two women died from the H1N1 flu strain in
Beijing and the government set targets for growth in the
biomedical industry.  Drugmakers Gain  Sihuan Pharmaceutical Holdings Group Ltd. (460)  rallied 6.2
percent in  Hong Kong , while  Sinopharm Group Co. (1099)  added 4.4
percent. Beijing Tiantan Biological Products Corp. surged 10
percent in Shanghai.  Chinese property shares rose in Hong Kong after developers
reported better December sales. Home sales volume in the capital
city of Beijing surged 64 percent last year, the highest in
three years, China Business News reported today, citing local
government data.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383)  jumped 6 percent
in Hong Kong, while   Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. (813)  rose 3.3
percent.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd, which makes the solar panel
raw material polysilicon, jumped 7.6 percent to the highest
price since May, leading gains in emerging markets gauge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  