-- Motiva Port Arthur Said to Halt Crude Unit Start as Clamp Fails
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-01-07T15:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/motiva-port-arthur-said-to-halt-crude-unit-start-as-clamp-fails.html
Motiva Enterprises LLC shut down the
325,000-barrel-a-day crude unit at the Port Arthur  refinery  days
after trying to restart it when a clamp that was modified to fix
an earlier leak failed, a person familiar with the situation
said.  The unit was put on circulation at about 5 p.m. local time
yesterday, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because he is not authorized to speak for the company. There is
no timeline for another restart. When on circulation, the unit
is kept running but no oil is processed.  The crude unit has been idled since a Dec. 11 fire that was
caused by a leak on the unit’s heater outlet. A second fire
broke out Dec. 17 during an earlier attempted restart. The
company attempted the most recent restart Jan. 3. Workers had
modified a clamp to stop the original leak, and it would not
hold, the person said.  Kimberly Windon, a Houston-based spokeswoman for the
refinery, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment. She said in an e-mail on Dec. 28 that the refinery was
“targeting an early 2013 full restart.”  The crude unit, the largest of three at Port Arthur, shut
for repairs several days after its May debut. It’s a key part of
a $10 billion expansion that will almost double the plant’s
processing capacity to 600,000 barrels a day. At full rates, the
refinery would be able to make 240,000 barrels a day of gasoline
and 190,000 barrels of diesel, according to the company.  Motiva is a refining and marketing joint venture of Saudi
Refining Inc., a subsidiary of Saudi Arabian Oil Co., and Shell
Oil Co., a unit of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  