-- Pakistan Seen Needing IMF Bailout as Rupee Drops Before Vote
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-01-08T05:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/pakistan-seen-needing-imf-bailout-as-rupee-plunges-before-vote.html
Pakistan  may require an International
Monetary Fund bailout after a tumble in foreign reserves and a
plunge in its currency to a record low, as a struggling economy
saps support for the government before a general election.  The rupee has slid 7 percent versus the dollar in the past
year, with reserves down about 19 percent to $13.8 billion on a
 trade gap  and aid repayments. IMF help is needed to stem the
declines, said Standard Chartered Plc and ex-Commerce Minister
Mohammad Zubair Khan, ahead of a visit by the lender this week.  “The rupee is under serious pressure,” said Sayem Ali, an
economist at Standard Chartered in Karachi who previously worked
at the  World Bank . “The central bank doesn’t have the ability
to defend it.”  The vote due by mid-2013 would be the first time a civilian
Pakistani government finishes its five-year term and transfers
power through the ballot box. Probable IMF loan conditions such
as tighter monetary policy and curbs on the  budget deficit  would
be politically costly steps for the administration led by the
 Pakistan Peoples Party , according to Khan.  “Going to IMF while in the middle of an election process
is certainly a risky move,” Ali said. “To some extent, they
can afford to delay the arrangement until the elections are held,
and that technically means that the new set-up will be burdened
with taking all the painful adjustments.”  An IMF mission is expected in the next two days, Rana Asad
Amin, a spokesman at the Ministry of Finance, said yesterday.  ‘In Talks’  Pakistan is evaluating a possible loan from the IMF as a
buffer against shocks, Saleem H. Mandviwalla, the minister of
state for finance, told reporters Dec. 19 in Islamabad.  “We are in talks with them but haven’t decided,” he said.  Subdued global growth, an unprecedented power crisis and an
insurgency on the Afghan border have buffeted Pakistan’s economy.  Political instability in the nuclear-armed nation may
hinder efforts to reconcile at least some Taliban insurgents
with the Afghan government of  Hamid Karzai , as the U.S. plans to
withdraw the majority of its combat troops from a decade-old war
in  Afghanistan  by the end of 2014.  The Washington-based IMF said in a Nov. 29  statement  that
Pakistan’s economic growth will slow to about 3.25 percent in
the fiscal year through June 2013, from 3.7 percent. Foreign
reserves in October were “below adequate levels,” it said.  Record Low  The rupee touched a record low of 98.288 per dollar on Dec.
18, and its 36 percent slide in the past five years is one of
the worst in  Asia , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
fell 0.1 percent to 97.57 per dollar at 9:53 a.m. in Karachi.
 Standard Chartered  predicts it will weaken to 100 per dollar
this quarter.  “To restore stability in the foreign-exchange markets,
they need IMF endorsement,” said Khan, now a World Bank adviser.  An earlier, partially disbursed $11.3 billion IMF loan
program expired in September 2011 after Pakistan failed to meet
the conditions attached to it. The nation has to repay about
$7.5 billion to the lender from 2012 to 2015, Moody’s Investors
Service said in July.  The South Asian country, which has been ruled by the
military for about half its history, turned to the IMF for a
bailout in December 2008 after reserves and the rupee tumbled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  