-- Palm Oil Stockpiles in Malaysia Seen Near Record: Survey
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-01-07T10:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/palm-oil-stockpiles-in-malaysia-seen-near-record-survey.html
Palm oil stockpiles in  Malaysia , the
world’s biggest producer after  Indonesia , probably held near a
record last month as exports declined amid low demand, according
to a Bloomberg survey. Futures dropped to a two-week low.  Inventories of the oil used in food and biofuels were 2.53
million metric tons in December compared to an all-time high of
2.56 million tons a month earlier, according to the median of
estimates from six analysts and two plantation companies. Output
probably fell 7.9 percent to 1.74 million tons, while  exports 
dropped 3.6 percent to 1.6 million tons, the median of estimates
from five of the respondents showed. The Malaysian Palm Oil
Board is scheduled to release the monthly data on Jan. 10.  Futures fell 23 percent last year, the worst annual slump
since the financial crisis in 2008, as reserves built up for
five months to November, trimming revenues at producers such as
 Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  Demand cooled amid concerns over  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a slowdown in  China , the biggest cooking oil
consumer. Malaysia changed its export-tax structure to help cut
the reserves, resulting in the tariff for January falling to
zero.  “The zero tax bracket is likely to encourage CPO exports
in the coming days,” said Nagaraj Meda, chairman of Hyderabad,
India-based Transgraph Consulting Pvt., referring to crude palm
oil by its initials.  Export Tax  Palm oil for March delivery dropped for a third day, losing
2 percent to 2,418 ringgit ($794) a ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange, the lowest price at close since Dec. 21.
Futures have recovered 9.1 percent after slumping to 2,217
ringgit on Dec. 13, the lowest level for the most-active
contract since November 2009.  The Malaysian government said in October it would cut the
export tax to between 4.5 percent and 8.5 percent, from 23
percent, effective Jan. 1. The tariff for this month was set at
zero as the base price was below the minimum threshold of 2,250
ringgit a ton that triggers the 4.5 percent rate.  Stockpiles on Jan. 1 may climb to 2.7 million to 2.8
million tons Dorab Mistry, director at Godrej International Ltd.
said Nov. 30, revising a previous call of 3 million. Rabobank
International picked palm oil as the best-performing
agricultural commodity for this year, betting reserves will
decrease as demand rebounds.  Production typically peaks from July to October, and then
tapers off in November, with January and February normally
recording the lowest output. The survey estimate for output in
December is 17 percent higher than a year ago. Exports also
usually drop during the Northern Hemisphere winter months as the
tropical oil clouds in cooler temperatures.  “Prices are already creeping up towards the expectation
that production is going to drop in January, so I think the next
couple of months should be positive for prices,” said Arhnue Tan, an analyst at Alliance Research Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur. Palm
may reach 2,800 ringgit a ton in the first quarter, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  