-- Patriarch Kirill Urges Russians to Adopt After U.S. Ban
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-01-07T11:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/patriarch-kirill-urges-russians-to-adopt-after-u-s-ban.html
Patriarch Kirill, head of  Russia ’s
Orthodox Church, urged followers to take in orphans after
President  Vladimir Putin  signed a ban on U.S. adoptions.  “There shouldn’t be orphans in our country,” Kirill said
today in a televised address marking Orthodox Christmas. “Those
without parents should find them among the kind, the honest and
the sympathetic.”  A halt on adoptions of Russian orphans by U.S. parents,
including 46 that were about to be placed with new families,
came into effect Jan. 1. The U.S. said the decision was
“politically motivated” following the imposition of visa bans
and asset freezes on Russian officials accused of having a role
in the 2009 death of lawyer Sergei Magnitsky, who’d sought to
expose alleged corruption among Interior Ministry officers.  Putin signed the law Dec. 28 and ordered the government to
promote domestic adoptions and improve conditions for orphans.  In an  interview  yesterday with the Interfax news service,
Kirill also urged that free speech be preserved amid government
efforts to protect religious sensibilities.  ‘Meticulously Drafted’  Laws protecting religious sites and imagery “should be
meticulously drafted so they can’t be used to arbitrarily limit
freedom of speech or artistic expression,” he was cited as
saying.  Lawmakers have proposed toughening legislation against
actions deemed offensive toward religions after female punk band
Pussy Riot’s protest in Moscow’s main cathedral and a U.S.-made
film insulting Islam. While calling for restraint, Kirill also
said current laws protecting religion don’t go far enough,
Interfax reported.  “A fine of a few hundred rubles for blasphemous writing in
churches, mosques or synagogues shows that our society doesn’t
fully recognize the importance of defending human dignity,
including protecting the feelings of the religious,” Interfax
cited him as saying.  Kirill, 66, became patriarch in February 2009. The Russian
Orthodox Church and other Christian confessions deserve “deep
gratitude and respect” for their social work, Putin  said  in an
e-mailed Christmas greeting.  The holiday “unites us around traditional spiritual and
moral values, which have played a particular role in Russian
history and serve as the foundation of our society,” said
Putin, who attended a midnight mass at a monastery in the Black
Sea resort of Sochi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  