-- Peugeot Jumps on Speculation of Faurecia Unit Stake Sale
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-01-07T11:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/peugeot-jumps-on-speculation-of-faurecia-unit-stake-sale.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  climbed to the
highest price in more than three months on speculation that the
cash-strapped carmaker may seek to raise money by selling a
stake in parts maker Faurecia, which also advanced.  Peugeot  jumped  as much as 11 percent to 6.83 euros, the
highest price since Sept. 20, and was trading up 6.2 percent as
12:51 p.m. in Paris. Faurecia, which is 57 percent-owned by
Peugeot,  surged  as much as 13 percent to 14.31 euros and was up
7.9 percent.  “PSA’s persistent problems and inability to find fast and
durable solutions mean that it is increasingly likely to sell
off more assets,” Florent Couvreur, a Paris-based analyst with
CM-CIC Securities, said today in a note to clients. “We
therefore believe that the stake held in  Faurecia (EO)  could be the
next disposal on the list.”  Jean-Baptiste Mounier, a spokesman for Peugeot, declined to
comment on the company’s plans for its holding in Faurecia.  Peugeot,  Europe ’s second-largest carmaker, last month
reached an 11.5 billion-euro ($15 billion) refinancing agreement
for its banking unit as part of a broader effort to shore up the
manufacturer’s finances. The French automaker said in July that
it was burning through cash at a rate of 200 million euros a
month as the European auto market headed for the worst sales in
almost two decades.  Short Cover  The gains in Peugeot shares are also tied to purchases by
investors who bet that the company’s shares would fall, analysts
said. Peugeot’s short interest stood at 17 percent, the highest
in the 14-member  Stoxx 600 autos and parts index . French
competitor  Renault SA (RNO) ’s short interest was 1.4 percent,
according to data from Markit.  Adding today’s move to gains from Jan. 4, Peugeot has
surged as much as 21 percent, the biggest two-day gain since
April 3, 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are some who are wondering if Peugeot would sell
part of Faurecia to boost its cash,” Yves Marcais, an equity
sales trader at Global Equities in Paris. With the prospect of a
cash influx, “those who are short the stock don’t want to
remain short very long, so are buying back shares.”  As demand for mass-market cars in Europe slump because of
the debt crisis, Peugeot has suffered more than most competitors
because it lacks a sizable presence in growing economies. The
company granted the French state and its labor unions each a
seat on its supervisory board. The oversight plans were part of
a deal for the government to guarantee as much as 7 billion
euros in new bonds for its banking unit, which provides loans to
dealers and car buyers.  ‘Go Further’  As part of an effort to boost its finances, Peugeot has
also sold assets including its Citer vehicle-rental unit and a
majority holding in its Gefco trucking division. The company
also agreed to procure parts and develop vehicles with  General
Motors Co. (GM)  to reduce costs. More moves may be needed.  Peugeot will have to “go further” on measures to
safeguard its future, French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici 
said in a radio interview yesterday on France Inter.  “There is room for this group on the European and world
landscape,” said Moscovici. “We will be there to accompany
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  