-- Pharma Deals North of $10 Billion Seen Returning in 2013
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/pharma-deals-north-of-10-billion-seen-returning-in-2013.html
Get ready for the return of the $10
billion-plus drug deal.  Pharmaceutical companies including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  have spent the last several years digesting
earlier acquisitions, refocusing their product development and
setting aside cash in anticipation of expiring patents. Now, the
expectation is they’re ready to start buying again. Led by
Pfizer, in New York, and  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based
 Merck & Co. (MRK) , five of the largest U.S. drugmakers had more than
$70 billion in cash, near cash and short-term investments at the
end of the third quarter.  “We’re through many cost-cutting programs, restructurings
and portfolio arrangements,” said Henry Gosebruch, managing
director of health-care mergers and acquisitions at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  “When you put that together with record levels of
cash available and improving, but still moderate R&D
productivity, we think there will be more big pharma M&A
activity in 2013.”  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ,  Sanofi (SAN) , Pfizer and
Merck have already shown interest in one purchase that may top
$10 billion: Bausch & Lomb Inc., the eye-care company, is for
sale by Warburg Pincus LLC. The private equity firm is seeking
at least $10 billion for the business and those companies may be
bidders, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  This week will set the year’s dealmaking agenda at
JPMorgan’s annual health-care conference in San Francisco.
Almost 8,000 attendees and more than 400 companies will gather
to make public presentations, have one-on-one meetings and get a
sense of available and competing assets.  ‘Circus Bazaar’  “It’s like a circus bazaar for business development,”
said Geoff Meacham, JPMorgan’s biotechnology analyst, in a
telephone interview. “It’s at the beginning of the year, the
time when everyone sets the stage; there are crowded hallways,
lots of buzz. And there’s probably a million 10-minute cups of
coffee between companies.”  Big drugmakers will probably be on the hunt for assets to
fill revenue holes left by expired patents.  Pfizer’s Lipitor, which drew more than $12 billion in
annual revenue at its peak, lost marketing exclusivity in
November 2011.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  lost patent protection on its
top-seller, the antipsychotic Zyprexa, in October 2011. The drug
had drawn more than $5 billion in peak sales. New York-based
Bristol-Myers faced generic competition last year to Plavix, its
best-seller with more than $7 billion in revenue.  Cash Reserves  At the same time, they’ve got deep pockets. Pfizer ended
the third quarter with $23 billion in  cash , near cash and short-
term investments. Lilly had $6.9 billion, while Merck had $18.1
billion, and J&J, $19.8 billion.  “Many large cap pharma companies still face a patent cliff
and have the financial capability and strategic willingness to
partner and acquire their way to continued innovation,” Leerink Swann analysts including  Seamus Fernandez  wrote in a Jan. 3
report. They cited Bristol-Myers, Lilly and London-based
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  as potentially the most active acquirers.  Still, they’re likely to be careful buyers, avoiding
purchases where valuations have risen too high, Gosebruch said.  Some biotechnology companies dependent on a single product
have seen their stocks triple or quadruple in the last couple of
years, to market values from $2 billion to $5 billion, as those
products have seen success. While those companies are
attractive, big pharmaceutical firms may look elsewhere for
acquisitions, such as to larger firms trading at more digestible
multiples and with more established products, he said.  Biotechnology Growth  Biotechnology companies with market valuations of more than
$10 billion include  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ,  Biogen
Idec Inc. (BIIB) ,  Celgene Corp. (CELG) ,  Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXN)  and
 Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  Celgene, the maker of $3 billion-
a-year cancer drug Revlimid and other oncology drugs based in
Summit, New Jersey, fits the focused profile that may draw
bigger drugmakers’ interest. Regeneron, based in Tarrytown, New
York, with efforts in ophthalmology, cancer and high
cholesterol, is more diversified.  To be sure, big pharmaceutical companies may face pressure
on their buying power, with valuations below 2006 levels giving
stock transactions less leverage and patent expirations
squeezing cash flows, according to Ernst & Young.  “Each of these potential currencies is now under increased
pressure,” Ernst & Young said in a report released today. “Big
pharma’s firepower has fallen.”  Seeking Acquisitions  Still, the accounting firm emphasized big drugmakers’ need
for deals to boost revenue. “With sales declining for the first
time in 2012, it is only a matter of time before shareholder
returns follow suit -- unless pharma can find new sources of
growth,” Ernst & Young said. “With few options for organic
growth, pharma needs transactions.”  Big drugmakers may see competition from large biotechnology
firms and specialty-drug makers as buyers.  “The pool of potential suitors that could pay up to
$20 billion has swelled,” Ernst & Young said.  Excitement over acquisitions of biotechnology companies at
the end of 2011 and beginning of 2012 contributed to
skyrocketing valuations, said Ziad Bakri, a biotechnology
analyst with T. Rowe Price Group Inc.  Gilead, the second-largest biotechnology company, announced
in November 2011 that it was buying Pharmasset Inc., a company
with no marketed products, for $11 billion to gain its hepatitis
C assets. Bristol-Myers followed in January, the weekend before
the JPMorgan conference began, with a $2.5 billion purchase of
Inhibitex Inc., another drugmaker in hepatitis C.  Single Focus  “Last year, what dominated the conference was hepatitis
C,” Bakri said in a telephone interview. “It was hepatitis C
and M&A in general. Both of those ended up contributing to the
outperformance of the biotech sector in the beginning of 2012.”  Companies such as  Pharmacyclics Inc. (PCYC) , the developer of an
experimental blood-cancer drug, and  Medivation Inc. (MDVN) , maker of a
medicine for prostate cancer, have seen their market valuations
multiply many times over in the last two years on optimism for
their products. Pharmacyclics, based in Sunnyvale, California,
has a market value of about $4.4 billion, while Medivation, in
 San Francisco , is about $4 billion.  Acquisitions of similar sizes followed those of the
hepatitis C companies last year. Bristol-Myers bought Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. for $5.3 billion, while  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
bought partner Human Genome Sciences Inc. for $3 billion.  Deal Pace  There have been 676 takeovers of biotechnology and
pharmaceutical companies in the last three years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The average disclosed deal size was
$328.7 million, and the average premium, 38 percent. The largest
acquisition was Sanofi’s takeover of Genzyme Corp. in 2011 for
$20.1 billion. Only two deals topped $10 billion; the other was
Foster City, California-based Gilead’s purchase of Pharmasset.  AbbVie Inc., the drug unit that split from parent Abbott on
Jan. 1, is seeking treatments for unmet medical needs, such as
Parkinson’s and endometriosis, to increase sales in 2015, Chief
Financial Officer William Chase said last week.  Bristol-Myers is looking to buy a new type of Alzheimer’s
disease drug to restock its pipeline after the failure of its
experimental compound avagacestat, said Mark Day, who heads the
company’s neuroscience business development.  Merck will consider “targeted deals” while seeking to
avoid a big merger, Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth Frazier  said
last week at a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  conference. Frazier said
further industry consolidation is likely, considering pricing
pressures, the costs and risks of clinical studies, and a
“certain redundancy of infrastructure” in the industry.  “With cost restructuring and portfolio realignments
largely behind us, pharma is now more ready to make bigger moves
again,” Gosebruch said. “They are going to be back in a more
aggressive way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  