-- Political-Disclosure Rule Seekers See Hopeful Sign on SEC Agenda
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S a l a n t
-- 2013-01-07T22:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/political-disclosure-rule-seekers-see-hopeful-sign-on-sec-agenda.html
Proponents of a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission rule to require public companies to disclose
political involvement say they see movement toward such a
measure even as the agency signals nothing has changed.  In one of a dozen additions the SEC recently made to its
rulemaking agenda at the website of the White House’s Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, the agency added plans for a
proposed rule under an April timeline. An August 2011  petition 
signed by 10 law professors called for a rule to illuminate how
companies contribute to political campaigns -- an idea that has
drawn more than 300,000 comment letters.  “The staff is considering whether to recommend a
proposal.”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in response to a
question about whether the  inclusion  in the agenda meant
progress was being made on a rule. Agency officials have made
similar comments since the petition was filed in August 2011.  The rule would require companies to disclose contributions
to groups engaging in political activities, such as the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, which spent $36 million largely in support
of Republican candidates without identifying donors.  Congressional efforts to require such disclosure have been
blocked by Senate Republicans, and the  Federal Election
Commission  has been stopped by a 3-3 party line vote from
beginning to revisit its disclosure rules.  Dodd-Frank Burden  The SEC hasn’t set a date for action, Nester said, and the
timing will depend on the agency’s completion of Dodd-Frank Act
requirements. The agency’s rulemaking burden under the 2010
financial-regulation overhaul still includes a long list of
contentious rules, some of which haven’t yet been proposed.  “It would be unusual, for sure, for the agency to place a
proposed rule on the agenda and not plan at least for the staff
to prepare a proposal for the commissioners to review, which,
I’d speculate, they are doing now,” said Robert J. Jackson Jr.,
a Columbia University law professor who was one of the signers
of the original petition.  Inclusion of the proposal on a list is a sign of progress,
according to Lisa Gilbert, director of Public Citizen’s Congress
Watch, part of a Washington-based group that advocacy group that
favors stronger campaign finance laws.  “Before this point, what had happened was a filed petition
by academics, and there had been no commitment from the SEC to
do anything about it,” she said. “We can see that the SEC has
now committed to consider the rule-making petition.”  Supporters of the measure plan to hold a conference call
tomorrow to push the SEC to complete work on the rule this year.  The commission led by Chairman Elisse Walter, a Democrat,
is one member short and is operating with two commissioners from
each party.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  