-- Pope Urges EU to Fight Wealth Gap as Much as Bond Spreads
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-01-07T15:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/pope-urges-eu-to-fight-wealth-gap-as-much-as-bond-spreads.html
Pope Benedict XVI called on European
leaders to spur economic growth by countering the wealth gaps
between their countries with the same determination used to
reduce the “spreads” among member state’s borrowing costs.  “If the differential index between financial rates
represents a source of concern, the increasing differences
between those few who grow ever richer and the many who grow
hopelessly poorer, should be a cause for dismay,” he said in an
 address  to diplomats at the Vatican today. “It is a question of
refusing to be resigned to a ‘spread’ in social well-being,
while at the same time fighting one in the financial sector.”  The 85-year-old pontiff and other leading figures of the
Catholic Church often use financial terms, concepts and
references in speeches on the state of the economy. In 2010,
Benedict called on businessmen to put profits earned from
production and services back into the “real economy” rather
than seeking a “quick return on the financial markets.” The
year before, Vatican Secretary of State Tarcisio Bertone said
that free-market economics legitimized greed, citing the 1987
movie “Wall Street” and its famous line that “greed is good,
greed is right.”  At the outset of the global financial crisis in November
2008, then Italian Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti said
Benedict had pronounced a “prophecy” in a 1985 paper stating
that a decline in ethics may “cause the laws of the market to
collapse.” In his 2009 encyclical “Caritas in Veritate,”
Latin for “Charity in Truth,” the pope laid out his thoughts
on capitalism and ways out of the worst recession since World
War II.  The European Union “requires far-sighted representatives
capable of making the difficult choices necessary to rectify its
economy and to lay solid foundations for growth,” the pope said
today. “Alone, certain countries may perhaps advance more
quickly, but together, all will certainly go further,” he said,
referring to the risks of a break-up in the euro region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  