-- Gilts Rise for First Time in Six Days as Cameron Sees Tough Year
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-01-07T17:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/pound-approaches-month-low-versus-dollar-before-house-price-data.html
U.K. government bonds rose for the
first time in six days as Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
prediction of a difficult year for the economy spurred demand
for benchmark yields near the highest since April.  The pound weakened for a second day versus the euro after
Cameron said on  BBC Television  yesterday the economic
environment is “tough” and “Britain needs low interest
rates.” The 10-year gilt yield jumped 30 basis points last
week, the biggest increase since the five-day period ended
January 23, 2009. The  Bank of England  meets this week to review
monetary policy.  “The selloff last week, which was not unprecedented but
very significant, has left the market somewhat oversold,” said
Adam McCormack, head of gilt sales at Barclays Plc in  London .
“Ten-year yields broke 2 percent last week and they may
struggle to get back through that level.”  The  10-year gilt  yield fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.09 percent at the 5 p.m. close of trading
in London after climbing to 2.14 percent on Jan. 4, the highest
level since April 30. The 1.75 percent bond due September 2022
gained 0.29, or 2.90 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,608) face
amount, to 97.08.  Convincing overseas investors they should keep buying U.K.
government debt is ultimately more important than whether
ratings companies downgrade gilts, Cameron said on BBC
Television’s “Andrew Marr Show.”  Standard & Poor’s  last month
lowered its outlook on Britain’s top credit grade to negative,
citing weak economic growth and a worsening debt profile.  ‘Real Test’  “The real test is what are the interest rates the rest of
the world is demanding in order to own your debt,” Cameron
said. “Our interest rates are extremely low, the lowest they’ve
been really for centuries.”  The benchmark 10-year  gilt yield  dropped to 1.407 percent
on July 23, the lowest since Bloomberg began compiling data on
the securities in 1989.  The relative-strength index on the gilt futures contract
expiring in March dropped to 25.9 on Jan. 4, the lowest on a
closing basis since Dec. 19 and below the 30 level that some
traders view as a signal that an asset’s price has fallen too
fast. The 14-day RSI increased to 31.3 today.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 2.2 percent this month
through Jan. 4, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, after
returning 2.8 percent in 2012.  Pound Falls  Sterling weakened 0.2 percent to 81.47 pence per euro after
sliding 0.4 percent on Jan. 4. The pound was little changed at
$1.6078 after falling as much as 0.3 percent to $1.6021.  An index of  job security  published by Lloyds Banking Group
Plc today dropped 4 points in December to minus 22, the lowest
reading since February. A measure of consumers’ inflation
expectations rose to the highest since February 2011.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said he’s confident the
British economy is healing after suffering a double-dip
recession and the government is taking the right steps to narrow
the  budget deficit  and fix the banking system.  “I am confident we are doing the right things to tackle
the black hole in the public finances,” he told reporters in
London. “Of course we want the healing process to take place
faster, but look at the headwinds we’re having to deal with,”
such as the euro crisis and  consumer debt , he said.  HSBC Prediction  The pound may weaken this year as the Bank of  England 
reconsiders its bond-buying policy and as the U.K. faces a
possible rating downgrade, according to  David Bloom , the London-
based global head of currency strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc.  “The currency has been remarkably impervious to bad news
on economic activity, the fiscal challenge and monetary easing
over the last few years, but we believe this is about to
change,” Bloom wrote in a report published on Jan. 4. “Fiscal
credibility is under threat at a time when the real pain of
adjustment is only beginning.”  The U.K. currency will depreciate to 89 pence per euro by
year-end and to 93 pence by the end of 2014, HSBC forecasts.  Bank of England policy makers will keep the benchmark
 interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent and the asset-purchase
 target  at 375 billion pounds when they meet on Jan. 10,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The pound has weakened 0.4 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The euro gained 2.6 percent and
the dollar fell 4.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  