-- THQ Approved for Extended Sale Process, Bankruptcy Loan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-01-07T22:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/thq-approved-for-extended-sale-process-bankruptcy-loan.html
THQ Inc. (THQIQ) , the maker of “Saints Row”
and “Company of Heroes” video-game franchises, won court
approval of a revised, longer bankruptcy sale process and loan
to help fund operations after reaching an agreement with
creditors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F. Walrath at a hearing today in
Wilmington,  Delaware , approved guidelines that will govern the
sale of the company’s assets at a bankruptcy auction and the
company’s $37.5 million bankruptcy loan.  The court “approved a process for a sale by Jan. 23” that
keeps Clearlake Capital Group LP as the lead or so-called
stalking-horse bidder, Jeffrey C. Krause, a THQ attorney, said
in an interview after the hearing.  Potential buyers will have to submit bids by Jan. 22, and
the company will hold an auction later that day to determine the
best offer for the assets. THQ will seek court approval of the
sale at a hearing scheduled for the next day, with closing
expected on Jan. 24.  Walrath denied the company’s request at a Jan. 4 hearing to
hold an auction 21 days after seeking  bankruptcy protection ;
persuaded by creditors’ arguments that the timeframe was too
fast to give prospective buyers a realistic opportunity to
evaluate the assets. THQ and the creditors hadn’t reached an
accord when today’s hearing started after Walrath directed them
last week to negotiate over the weekend.  ‘Piecemeal Bids’  The revised sale process will allow potential buyers to
make “piecemeal bids” for individual assets and video-game
titles, a change creditors were pushing for, Krause told Walrath
at the hearing.  THQ sought bankruptcy protection Dec. 19 with an agreement
to sell virtually all its assets to Clearlake Capital Group LP
in a deal then valued at about $60 million, which included
paying off secured debt, $6.65 million cash, assuming certain
liabilities and a $10 million note.  Clearlake has dropped the $10 million note after creditors’
lawyers called it a “hope note,” ascribing no value to it. The
Los Angeles-based private equity firm also reduced the fee it
would get if it’s beat at auction.  THQ listed assets of $204.8 million and debt of $248.1
million in Chapter 11 documents filed Dec. 19. The company said
it was forced to seek court protection after sustaining losses
for the past five fiscal years.  ‘Saints Row’  “Saints Row,” with more than 11 million units shipped
globally, is THQ’s most-successful franchise, according to a May
press release. THQ also published the “Darksiders” and “Red
Faction” franchises, according to its  website .  The video-game maker said it required more time for some
titles and had to delay the March introductions of “ South Park :
The Stick of Truth,” based on the popular adult cartoon show
from  Matt Stone  and  Trey Parker ; “Company of Heroes 2” and
“Metro: Last Light.”  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the second-biggest U.S. video-game
publisher, “is one of the potential bidders and has completed
site visits,” Krause said at today’s hearing.  At last week’s hearing, Howard J. Weg, a lawyer
representing  Warner Bros . Entertainment Inc., said the company
would be interested in evaluating THQ’s assets and potentially
making a bid if the sale process is extended. Warner Bros.
bought most of the assets of “ Mortal Kombat ”‘-maker Midway
Games Inc. out of bankruptcy in July 2009.  The case is In re THQ Inc., 12-13398,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  