-- Rajoy Stealth Order Adds to Off-Balance Sheet Debt: Euro Credit
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-01-08T15:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/rajoy-stealth-order-adds-to-off-balance-sheet-debt-euro-credit.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
added more than 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) to his debt load
in the closing hours of 2012 with a New Year’s Eve order
removing a cap on utilities’ government-guaranteed losses.  The decision, announced in the official gazette, added to
the snowballing power-tariff debt, which isn’t included in the
public accounts. The shortfall exceeded 20 billion euros at year
end, according to government filings.  Spain’s government-controlled electricity system has raised
less revenue from consumers than it pays to power companies for
most of the past decade. Officials have covered the difference
with bonds in the so-called FADE program.  “With an explicit guarantee, any final losses are passed
on to the Spanish taxpayer, as happened in Ireland with its
banks in a bigger scale,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of European
rates strategy at Societe Generale SA. “This is quite a large
amount if a permanent solution isn’t found soon.”  Spain’s commitment to reducing its  budget deficit  has waned
after the  European Central Bank ’s pledge to backstop sovereign
debt drove down bond yields. Even with a deficit that the
European Commission says will exceed targets, Spain’s borrowing
costs have plummeted since ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged to
do whatever necessary to preserve the euro. Ten-year yields fell
2 basis points to 5.09 percent at 11:33 a.m. in  Madrid , down
from a euro-era high of 7.75 percent on July 25.  Selling Bonds  The Dec. 31 announcement, which was tacked onto a law
governing pension rights for domestic cleaners, allows the
government to sell bonds under the FADE program. Without the
help from taxpayers, utilities such as  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  Gas
Natural SDG SA (GAS)  would be obliged to finance the industry deficit.  The outcome marks a victory for Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro over Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria. They have
tangled for the past year on confronting the energy deficit.
Soria pledged in September to meet the 1.5 billion-euro deficit
limit for 2012 and eliminate it this year. The shortfall for
last year probably reached 4.8 billion euros, according to the
power-industry lobby.  Soria’s plan fell apart after Montoro left 2.1 billion
euros of subsidies to cover repayments on accumulated tariff
debt out of his 2013 spending plan. That measure accounted for
almost half of the extra revenue Soria anticipated for the
sector, with most of the rest covered by a 7 percent tax on
generation approved in December.  No Statement  The aid “has been booted out of the national budget,”
Shai Hill, a power-industry analyst at Macquarie Capital  Europe 
Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “There was no statement
from Montoro but the fact that it’s not in there tells you it
must be back within the ‘energy-system costs’ and thus needs to
be recouped” from consumers.  Montoro also rejected Soria’s bid for a proposal to strip
subsidies for powering the Spanish islands out of the power bill
last year, Hill said. In August, Montoro overruled a Soria plan
to tax renewable energy producers to claw back subsidies.  “We shouldn’t get distracted by this,” Montoro said in an
Aug. 14 interview. “People are worried about other things. Why
would we increase social tension with measures we can’t really
explain?”  A spokesman for Soria declined to comment. A spokesman for
Montoro didn’t reply to three calls seeking a response.  Eight-Month Drought  Spain resumed FADE issuance in October after an eight-month
drought as the ECB’s bond-buying plan boosted demand for
government-backed debt. The state has sold 2.18 billion euros of
FADE bonds since then. It uses the proceeds to repay Iberdrola,
Gas Natural and  Enel SpA (ENEL)  unit  Endesa SA. (ELE)   Titulizacion de Activos SGFT, the manager of the FADE
program, is in the process of selecting arrangers for the next
bond issuance, according to its website. Banks seeking to work
on the transaction were asked to file proposals by yesterday.  FADE’s 1.8 billion euros of 5.6 percent coupon bonds due in
2018 traded at 104.8 cents on the euro as of Jan. 4, up from
98.2 cents before the ECB announced its bond purchase plan,
according to Bloomberg prices. They yielded 4.58 percent, or 49
basis points more than similar maturity government bonds, the
smallest gap since Oct. 22, Bloomberg data show.  Behind the political spat over whether the electricity-
system losses wind up on the government’s balance sheet lies the
structural challenge of reining in the cost of powering the
Spanish economy. The ECB’s intervention has enabled Spanish
officials to push the liabilities down the road.  Funding Needs  The Spanish government needs to borrow as much as 230
billion euros this year to finance its deficit and repay
maturing bonds, Treasury chief, Inigo Fernandez de Mesa said
today. Public debt jumped 17 percentage points to 85 percent of
gross domestic product last year.  Without action, the power debt would reach about 50 billion
euros by 2015, Soria said last year. The 2012 deficit equates to
about 70 percent of the profits of  Spain ’s four biggest power
companies.  The burden poses a problem of the same order as the toxic
real estate assets that forced Rajoy to request 39 billion euros
of bank aid from Europe last year, according to Cesar Molinas,
former head of European fixed income at Merrill Lynch now a
partner at CRB Inverbio private-equity fund.  “It’s on the scale of the bank rescue,” Molinas said in a
telephone interview. “That’s what we are heading for.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  