-- RBC Hires Ex-Citigroup Analyst Mahaney to Cover Web Stocks
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-01-07T17:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/rbc-hires-ex-citigroup-analyst-mahaney-to-cover-web-stocks-1-.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
largest lender, hired former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  analyst  Mark Mahaney 
as a managing director covering Internet stocks.  Mahaney, 47, will be based in San Francisco and report to
Marc Harris, co-head of global research, Toronto-based  Royal
Bank of Canada (RY)  said today in a statement.  Citigroup fired Mahaney, one of the industry’s top
technology analysts, in October as it settled a separate
regulatory probe into its handling of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial
public offering, a person familiar with the matter said then.  “We are excited to add Mark’s talents to our strong global
research team,” Harris said in the statement. “His long
history of unparalled buy-side relationships and insightful
analysis of the Internet sector is second-to-none.”  Mahaney, who joined Citigroup in 2005, has covered Internet
stocks since 1998, according to a company biography.
Institutional Investor ranked him No. 1 for the Internet from
2008 to 2011.  He left New York-based Citigroup as the lender paid a $2
million fine to settle the Facebook probe. Massachusetts
Secretary of the Commonwealth William F. Galvin had claimed that
a junior analyst disclosed confidential information about Menlo
Park, California-based Facebook before the social networking
firm’s IPO.  Separate from the Facebook incident, an unidentified senior
analyst e-mailed unpublished information about Google Inc.’s
YouTube revenue estimates to a French business magazine reporter
on April 30, according to Galvin’s order. That analyst was
Mahaney, said the person familiar with the matter.  Mahaney has a bachelor’s degree from Amherst College, a
master’s from Johns Hopkins University and an MBA from the
Wharton School of the  University of Pennsylvania , according to
his biography.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  