-- Redskins’ Robert Griffin III to Have Scan After Re-Injuring Knee
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/redskins-robert-griffin-iii-to-have-scan-after-re-injuring-knee.html
Robert Griffin III will undergo a
scan today after the rookie quarterback aggravated a right knee
injury during the Washington Redskins’ 24-14 season-ending loss
to the  Seattle Seahawks .  Griffin, 22, completed just 4-of-11 passes for 16 yards
after hurting his knee late in the first quarter. He left
yesterday’s game midway through the fourth quarter after his
knee buckled as he unsuccessfully tried to grab a low snap.  “When it comes to the impact of the injury, I’m not sure
what it is,” Griffin, the second overall pick in the 2012
National Football League draft, said at a news conference.
“We’ll figure that out in the next few days. Whatever it is,
I’ll make sure I come back healthy from it.”  Griffin originally sprained his knee during a Dec. 9 win
against Baltimore and sat out the following week’s game in
 Cleveland . He wore a knee brace yesterday and threw touchdown
passes on the Redskins’ first two drives before re-injuring his
knee while throwing a pass.  “I did put myself at more risk by being out there,” said
Griffin, who this season had the highest rookie passer-rating in
NFL history. “But every time you step on the football field,
you’re putting your life, your career, every single ligament in
your body in jeopardy. That’s just the approach I had to take.
My teammates needed me out there, so I was out there for them.”  Redskins coach  Mike Shanahan  said he considered taking
Griffin out of the game after the first quarter, though decided
against it after talking with his rookie captain.  “I thought he did enough for our football team this season
to have a chance,” Shanahan said. “He said, ‘I want to be in
there’ and he deserved to be in there.”  Offensive Yards  Shanahan said the team wouldn’t have played Griffin if
there was significant risk of further injury to his lateral
collateral ligament. The Redskins outgained the Seahawks 129 to
nine in offensive yards during the first quarter and then were
outgained 371-74 the rest of the game.  “Mike asked me if I was OK, I said yes,” Griffin said.
“I’m the quarterback of this team. My job it to be out there if
I can play. The only time I couldn’t play is when I went down
and I  took myself out of the game. I don’t think me being out
there hurt the team in any way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  