-- Redskins Quarterback Griffin Set for More Tests on Injured Knee
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-01-08T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/redskins-griffin-will-have-more-tests-tomorrow-on-injured-knee.html
Washington Redskins quarterback
Robert Griffin III will have more tests today on the injured
knee that knocked him out of a National Football League playoff
loss to the  Seattle Seahawks .  MRI tests on the 22-year-old rookie were inconclusive due
to prior injuries to the anterior cruciate and lateral
collateral ligaments, Redskins coach  Mike Shanahan  said
yesterday in a news conference. Griffin will meet today with
orthopedic surgeon James Andrews for a second opinion, physical
exam and more tests, according to Shanahan.  “Any time there are old injuries with the ACL and LCL,
there’s always differences of opinion on the MRI,” Shanahan
said.  The Washington Post, citing several people with knowledge
of the test results who requested anonymity, reported last night
that Griffin may have suffered at least partial tears of two
ligaments.  Griffin has worn a brace on his right knee for several
weeks after a previous injury and limped through much of the
playoff game after hurting the leg in the first quarter. He was
assisted off the field with six minutes remaining after his knee
buckled when he tried to grab a low snap, and didn’t return to
action as the Seahawks won 24-14 in Landover,  Maryland .  The injury sparked debate around the league as to how long
he should have remained in the game. Shanahan said two days ago
that he considered removing Griffin in the first quarter and
decided against it after speaking with the quarterback and team
doctors, including Andrews. The coach affirmed that judgment
yesterday.  More Risk  “You don’t make decisions by yourself, you get a lot of
opinions during the game, especially with a guy like Robert,”
Shanahan said. “Not only talking to him, but talking to the
doctors, and then you go with what you think is right.”  Griffin originally sprained his knee during a Dec. 9 win
against the  Baltimore Ravens  and sat out the following week’s
game in  Cleveland . He acknowledged two days ago that he had put
himself at more risk by starting the game.  “Every time you step on the football field, you’re putting
your life, your career, every single ligament in your body in
jeopardy,” he told reporters. “That’s just the approach I had
to take. My teammates needed me out there, so I was out there
for them.”  Griffin tore his anterior cruciate ligament in the third
game of Baylor University’s 2009 college football season. He
returned to the team the following season and in 2011 won the
Heisman Trophy as the nation’s top college player.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  