-- Roche Comments May Mean No Illumina Deal in Near Term
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-01-07T21:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/roche-comments-may-mean-no-illumina-deal-in-near-term.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  Chairman Franz Humer
may have put a lid for now on a year’s worth of speculation by
telling a Swiss newspaper that a Roche deal to buy U.S. genetics
company  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  is off the table. Illumina shares fell the
most in 15 months.  The interview “discounts Roche’s intent to purchase
Illumina medium-term,”  Ross Muken , a New York-based analyst for
ISI Group LLC, wrote in a note to investors late yesterday. “We
do not believe this precludes Roche from returning to Illumina
as a targeted asset in the future and does not diminish its
attractiveness as a potential M&A target.”  The two companies’ names have been linked since speculation
about an acquisition first surfaced in December 2011. Illumina
spurned Roche’s hostile bid in January 2012, and also rejected a
sweetened, $6.7 billion proposal. The Swiss company walked away
in April after investors held out for an even higher offer.  While Roche was aware that Illumina was sending
conciliatory signals, no deal resulted, Humer said, according to
an interview published yesterday in  SonntagsZeitung .  “Illumina is definitively off the table,” Humer said, the
newspaper reported. “The other side wasn’t ready to retreat
from their totally excessive price demands. Roche doesn’t do
acquisitions that don’t create added value. We have self-
discipline.”  Stock Drops  Laura Trotter, an Illumina spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that the San Diego-based company had no comment on Roche.  The U.S. company announced its own deal today, saying it
would pay $350 million plus as much as $100 million in milestone
payments for Verinata Health Inc., a maker of prenatal tests for
Down syndrome and other chromosomal abnormalities.  Illumina fell 7.1 percent to $50.90 at the close of  New
York  trading, its biggest one-day decline since Oct. 7, 2011.
The stock had gained 93 percent in the past year through Jan. 4.
Roche offered to buy the company at $44.50 a share and then $51
a share last year.  Illumina would have been a “nice-to-have” deal, not a
“must-have” asset, SonntagsZeitung quoted Humer as saying.  History shows a pattern of Roche acquiring “emerging or
nascent” gene-sequencing assets, such as NimbleGen Systems Inc.
and 454 Life Sciences, Muken wrote, while the only time it
bought a market leader close to Illumina’s stature was in its
2008 purchase of Ventana Medical Systems Inc. The ISI analyst
has a “market weight” rating on Illumina’s shares.  Roche sees other alternatives for adding gene-sequencing
technology, SonntagsZeitung cited Humer as saying.  Agefi Reports  Illumina Chief Executive Officer  Jay Flatley  said in
September that Roche, by making its bid public, stopped the
gene-sequencing company’s board from discussing what price would
be acceptable. Directors didn’t want to openly talk about a sale
amount after Roche’s hostile bid was made public in January
because they would have needed to disclose those discussions, he
said.  A Swiss newspaper, L’Agefi, reported last month that the
companies had agreed to a $66-a-share deal. Illumina asked for
$68 a share on Dec. 28 and $75 a share on Jan. 3, L’Agefi
reported today on its Twitter feed, without saying where it got
the information.  Alexander Klauser, a spokesman for Roche, repeated today
that Illumina is off the table. Klauser declined to comment on
the prices L’Agefi cited.  Shareholder Letter  An offer of more than $65 a share would have been in the
interest of shareholders and Illumina’s board should have
disclosed it if it was made, Lucien Selce, chairman of  Vista
Capital Management SA  in Geneva, wrote in a letter to Illumina
Chairman William H. Rastetter today. Selce also sent the letter
to  Bloomberg News .  Vista Capital, which holds more than 300,000 Illumina
shares, is unclear on the board’s decision-making process and
its view on a fair price for the company, and the board should
improve transparency and disclosure, Selce wrote. He asked
Illumina to respond publicly to the question of whether it
received an informal offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  