-- Romanian Central Bank Keeps Rates Steady as Inflation Slows
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-01-07T14:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/romanian-central-bank-keeps-rates-steady-as-it-weighs-inflation.html
Romania ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at the first meeting of the
year as it weighs inflationary pressures against a slowdown in
economic growth.  The Bucharest-based Banca Nationala a Romaniei held the
monetary-policy rate at a record-low 5.25 percent, the second-
highest in the European Union after Hungary, it said in an e-
mail today. The decision matched the estimates of all 13
economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . It also left its minimum
reserve requirements on foreign-exchange deposits at 20 percent
and the ratio for leu deposits at 15 percent.  The bank halted its easing cycle in May after two
government changes and a power struggle between President Traian Basescu and Prime Minister Victor Ponta pushed the leu to a
record low and a prolonged drought pushed food prices up.
Ponta’s coalition won a two-thirds majority in Parliament in
Dec. 9 elections and he was reinstated as premier last month.  “Monetary policy remains prudent, seeking to anchor
inflation expectations and pave the way for the inflation rate
to be close to the medium-term target,” Governor Mugur Isarescu
told a press briefing. “The inflation rate may return to the
target band by year-end, but risks and uncertainties over
developments in the external environment, capital flows,
administered prices and some volatile prices still persist.”  Leu Gains  The leu, which gained 1.5 percent in December, rose 0.1
percent to 4.4155 per euro by 4:13 p.m. in Bucharest. Yield on
Romania’s 2016 euro-denominated bonds was unchanged at 3.07
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Central banks in the region, including  Hungary  and the
Czech Republic, are cutting rates or considering other measures,
including currency interventions, to boost their economies.
Hungary cut its main interest rate on Dec. 18 for a fifth month
to 5.75 percent and may consider further easing depending on
favorable market conditions.  While the Balkan nation’s inflation slowed to 4.56 percent
in November, it will probably stay above the central bank’s
targeted band of between 2 percent and 4 percent for 2012 as
policy makers estimated the rate at 5.1 percent in December. The
National Statistics Institute will release December inflation
data Jan. 11. The bank targets inflation between 1.5 percent and
3.5 percent in 2013.  Tightrope Walking  The bank “continues to walk a tightrope between the need
to bring inflation inside the target and sluggish economic
growth, which calls for lower rates,” Banca Comerciala Romana
SA economist Eugen Sinca said. “We think inflationary concerns
will prevail and a new easing cycle will begin only after the
emergence of clear signs of lower inflation pressures.”  Gross domestic product  contracted a seasonally adjusted 0.5
percent in the third quarter from the previous three months,
following a 0.1 percent gain in the April-June period, according
to revised data from the statistics office.  Romanian policy makers lowered rates 1 percentage point
before pausing on May 2. The country, which has a two-year 5
billion-euro ($6.5 billion) precautionary loan agreement with
the International Monetary Fund and the EU, is considering a new
deal with the lenders once the current one expires at the end of
March.  A deal with the IMF and the European Union may be reached
in the first half of the year, with talks on a new agreement
starting this month, Isarescu said.  The central bank, which holds its next rate-setting meeting
Feb. 5, said it will seek “to ensure an adequate liquidity
management” in the financial industry. The bank has been
limiting liquidity to commercial bank at weekly repurchase
operations since October to prop up the leu.  “It’s important to note the change of tone regarding the
bank’s liquidity management stance” as “there’s a likelihood
that liquidity conditions will be less stringent than in
previous months,” UniCredit Tiriac Bank SA senior economist
Mihai Patrulescu said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  