-- Roman Dice Rollers Meet Egyptian Gamblers in French Show
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-01-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/roman-dice-rollers-meet-egyptian-gamblers-in-french-show.html
“The die is cast,” declared  Julius
Caesar  when he crossed the Rubicon in 49 B.C. and led his troops
from Gaul, where he was governor, into  Italy .  What he did was illegal, and so was the game he was
referring to.  Despite the ban, playing dice was wildly popular in ancient
 Rome . Emperor Claudius, one of Caesar’s successors, even wrote a
book on it.  If you want to know more about gambling in antiquity, the
 Musee de Cluny  in Paris is the place to go. “The Art of Games
and Games of the Art, from Babylon to Medieval Europe” is a
delightful show, bringing together 250 pieces spanning four
millennia.  The wing of the museum in which they are on view seems
particularly apt: It used to be the frigidarium, or cold pool,
of a Roman bath when Paris was still Lutetia.  One of the oldest items is the so-called palm tree game
from ancient  Egypt . It was played with 10 ivory pieces, five
with the head of a dog, five with the head of a jackal, to be
moved across a small piece of furniture with animal legs and 58
holes.  The game was found in a tomb, suggesting the Egyptians
expected to keep up their gambling habits in the hereafter.  Royal Tomb  Another, even older, board game was excavated from a burial
site at Ur Kasdim, Mesopotamia, the place where Abraham is
believed to have come from. The noble materials and the superb
craftsmanship have led archaeologists to believe that the tomb
belonged to a king.  From ancient Rome, you find the game of 12 lines, a
precursor to backgammon. You’ll look in vain, however, for the
equally popular ludus latrunculorum, or game of robbers, a
distant relation to what later became chess.  It’s not the only gap in the show.  The organizers don’t aspire to completeness nor do they try
to outline a comprehensive history of games. The objects have
been chosen with the eye of an aesthete, not the thoroughness of
an archivist.  Chess arrived in  Europe  around 1000 A.D., more than three
centuries after it was invented in  India .  On its way through the Islamic world, some pieces changed
their names and their functions: The fers, or vizier, morphed
into the queen; the aufin, or elephant, evolved into the bishop.  Lovers’ Chess  The most amusing item in the show is an illuminated
manuscript from 15th-century France.  It tells the story of “Tristan et Yseult” and shows
Tristan sipping the love potion while playing chess with Isolde
-- a detail that, so far, has escaped the attention of
adventurous opera directors.  Card games arrived even later in Europe, probably from
 China . The exhibition includes a small number of lovely hand-
painted cards.  Their real boom, though, started only after the invention
of the printing press, too recent for the time span covered in
the show.  For that, you have to go to the Musee Francais de la Carte
a Jouer (French Museum of Playing Cards) in the chateau of Issy-
les-Moulineaux, a suburb of Paris. Information:
 http://www.issy.com/musee .  “L’Art du Jeu, Jeu dans l’Art, de Babylone a l’Occident
Medieval” runs at the Musee de Cluny through March 4 2013.
Information:  http://www.musee-moyenage.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Peter Rainer  on film and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 