-- Samsung Says Appliance Sales to Increase 50% on Premium Strategy
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-01-07T08:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/samsung-says-appliance-sales-to-increase-50-on-premium-strategy.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
biggest seller of smartphones, TVs and display panels, expects
sales of home appliances to climb 50 percent during the next
three years as it focuses on premium models with more functions.  Annual revenue from the division making refrigerators,
washing machines and ovens will climb to $18 billion in 2015
from about $12 billion last year, Younghoon Eom, executive vice
president of sales and marketing, said in an interview in  Las
Vegas .  Spending on research and additional manufacturing capacity
dragged  operating margins  for the appliance business below an
industry average of about 5 percent, he said ahead of the
 Consumer Electronics Show . A focus on energy efficiency, more
functionality and design will help the company boost sales and
profitability as it competes against cheaper Chinese brands.  “They’re clearly a threat for us,” Eom said of
competitors including Qindao, China-based Hisense Electric Co.
and Haier Electronics Group Co., both of which are seeking to
expand global sales. “We’ve been striving very hard at design
innovation and performance improvement.”  Hisense and Haier were among the top sellers of home
appliances in  China  last year under the country’s rural stimulus
program, according to a  statement  on the Ministry of Commerce’s
website.  ‘Smart’ Refrigerator  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung is making more “smart”
appliances, or devices that can connect to each other or the
Internet, Eom said. The company is “expanding aggressively” in
the premium segment and reducing its emphasis on lower-priced
products as it tries to boost operating margin above 5 percent
by 2015, he said.  A smart washing machine could connect to a TV, allowing a
viewer to monitor a wash cycle, while a refrigerator with a
liquid-crystal-display monitor could connect to the Internet to
find recipes or build a shopping list.  Only about 10 percent to 20 percent of Samsung’s home
appliances will be smart by 2015, with most of the sales growth
coming from improvements to existing features such as  energy
efficiency  and time saving, Eom said.  “Today’s refrigerator is the same as a 100-years-ago
refrigerator in terms of fundamental technology, washing
machines are the same, air-conditioning systems are the same,”
he said. “Most of our growth will come from the premium segment
through innovation.”  The improvements include better temperature sensors,
quieter designs and cosmetic refinements, said Kurt Jovais, the
company’s U.S. vice president for home-appliance marketing.  Samsung’s appliances marketing budget in  the U.S.  will
increase by about 5 percent this year as it focuses more on
social media, Jovais said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 