-- San Miguel Leads Philippine Index Rally to Record: Manila Mover
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-01-07T05:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/san-miguel-leads-philippine-index-rally-to-record-manila-mover.html
Alliance Global Group Inc. (AGI)  and  San
Miguel (SM)  Corp. led the  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP) ’s rally to
a record as some investors bought shares of companies trading at
a discount to the benchmark gauge.  Alliance Global, which has investments in casino, liquor
and fast food, rose to a record. San Miguel, the nation’s
largest food and drinks company, climbed the most since November
2011 after the Philippine Star reported the company may sign an
agreement this month with the government for a  Manila  rail
project.  Megaworld (MEG)  Corp., a builder of office and residential
towers, rose more than 6 percent.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index climbed 1 percent to
6,031.30 as of the noon trading break in Manila, poised for its
fourth straight record close. Speculation the government will
keep borrowing costs low has pushed the gauge’s valuation to
17.2 times estimated earnings, or a 56 percent premium to the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  “A lot of investors are positive and very optimistic of
the nation’s prospects this year and some stocks are catching up
in terms of valuation,”  Mark Canizares, head of equities at
Manulife Philippines, said by phone today. “Stocks that lag in
valuations are being bought up on anticipation there’s more room
for the market to go up this year.”  The benchmark index may climb to 6,800 this year, driven by
a 20 percent expansion in earnings, Manila-based First Metro
Investment Corp. said in a statement today. The  measure  rose 33
percent in 2012, its fourth-straight year of gains, as the
nation’s economic growth accelerated and the central bank cut
its benchmark rate four times to a record low 3.5 percent.  ‘Undemanding Valuation’  Alliance Global rose 3.2 percent to 17.34 pesos, heading
for the highest close based on prices going back to April 1999.
The stock is trading at 13.6 times estimates for 2013 earnings,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Alliance’s undemanding valuation makes it a cheap, good
alternative consumer play,” Alex Pomento, head of research at
Macquarie Group’s Manila unit, said by phone today.  San Miguel , which is valued at 11 times profit, increased
3.3 percent to 108.90 pesos, bound for the sharpest gain since
Nov. 16, 2011. The company is still waiting for a notice from
the finance department on the rail project, President Ramon Ang
said in a mobile-phone text message today, in response to the
Philippine Star report.  Megaworld jumped 6.9 percent to 3.27 pesos, heading for the
sharpest gain since Aug. 10, 2011. The stock trades for 12.2
times profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  