-- Saudi Aujan Becomes Drinks Billionaire With ‘Vimto Time’
-- B y   D e v o n   P e n d l e t o n
-- 2013-01-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/saudi-aujan-becomes-drinks-billionaire-with-vimto-time-.html
Across the Persian Gulf, the Muslim
holy month of Ramadan is marked by family gatherings, prayer and
bountiful, fast-breaking feasts featuring spit-roasted lamb,
dates, lentil soup and other traditional fixings. Such banquets
wouldn’t be complete without a fruity, non-alcoholic drink
called Vimto.  The ruby-colored cordial “is something we’ve grown up
with,” Khalifa Haroon, 28, the head of Interactive and
Innovation for  Vodafone Qatar (VFQS) , said in a telephone interview
from his home in Doha. “I remember you’d actually hear the
Vimto coming because it’s poured into a glass jug filled with
ice. When you hear the ice clinking, it’s Vimto time.”  Vimto has helped make Adel Aujan, the Saudi tycoon who
controls the brand in the region, a billionaire. The 66-year-old
chairman of Dammam, Saudi Arabia-based Aujan Industries, the
Middle East’s largest independent beverage company, has a net
worth of at least $1.3 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Sales of closely held Aujan Industries’ three brands --
Vimto, a juice drink called Rani, and Barbican, a non-alcoholic
malt beverage -- will exceed $1 billion in 2012, according to
the company, quadruple its revenue in 2004. Aujan beverages are
sold in 70 countries, with more than 70 percent of revenue
coming from the Gulf,  Iran  and Iraq. About half of Vimto’s
annual sales are generated during Ramadan, according to the
brand’s local website.  In December 2011, Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  bought about
half of Aujan for $980 million. The deal was the biggest
consumer-goods investment ever made by a multinational company
in the Middle East, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Aujan and his family retained the other half, as well as an 
Iran-based manufacturing facility that was not included in the
transaction.  Attractive Partnership  “Sheik Adel Aujan has long had a vision of nurturing
people and he has created an inspirational portfolio of
brands,” Ahmet C. Bozer, president of the Eurasia and Africa
Group for Coca-Cola, said in an emailed statement to  Bloomberg
News . The “portfolio certainly makes this partnership
attractive but Aujan has a great leadership team and great
people committed to growth and sustainability.”  The company owes much of its sales surge over the past
decade to regional advertising, according to Thorsten Hartmann,
director of research at Dubai-based IMES Research. Since
2005, the company has flooded televisions, billboards and radios
from  Morocco  to Iran with ads featuring photogenic youth and
quirky mascots touting Aujan drinks.  Controlling Shareholder  A recent TV commercial stars a group of young men cavorting
around Dubai in a vintage convertible, rapping in Arabic about
“how they roll,” to a punchy hip-hop beat, Barbican bottles in
hand.  The company’s sales may increase as rulers throughout the
 Middle East  boost spending to ensure their populations get a
bigger share of state energy wealth. Saudi’s King Abdullah
declared $130 billion of extra spending in February and March of
2011 in response to popular movements that ousted leaders from
 Tunisia  to Yemen.  “Aujan Industries is nothing but a rare success story in
the Middle East, of which I am very proud,” Aujan said in an e-
mail to Bloomberg News. “We concentrated on brand building
rather than general beverage trading, which I believe has
brought us our success today.”  Safari Camps  Aujan shares the company with his two brothers, Adnan and
Abdulwahab, and is the family’s controlling shareholder,
according to Ajith Henry and Liam Turner, spokesmen for the
billionaire at Burson Marsteller in Dubai. The spokesmen did not
respond to questions regarding specific stakes held by other
family members.  Aujan’s estimated 30 percent stake in Aujan Industries is
valued at $670 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company is valued using the Coca-Cola transaction and the
average enterprise value-to-sales, enterprise value-to-earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, and price-
to-earnings multiples of five publicly traded beverage companies
from  emerging markets : Turkey’s  Coca-Cola Icecek AS (CCOLA) , Mexico-
based  Arca Continental SAB (AC*)  and  Cola Femsa SAB (KOF) , Chile’s
 Embotelladora Andina SA (ANDINAB)  and  Almarai AB (ALMARAI)  of Saudi Arabia.
Enterprise value is defined as market capitalization plus total
debt minus cash.  Based on an analysis of cash received from the transaction,
company dividends and market performance, Aujan probably has a
portfolio of investable assets valued at $500 million, according
to the Bloomberg ranking. The billionaire also owns seven resort
properties worth at least $80 million, including five luxury
hotels in  Mozambique  and two safari camps in  Zimbabwe , near
Victoria Falls.  Fizzy Version  In 1996, he founded the 8,000-acre  Victoria Falls Private
Game Reserve  that’s home to 25 different species of large game,
a rhino-breeding program and an anti-poaching academy. The
properties are valued using local occupancy and room rates, a 10
percent capitalization rate and estimated debt of 50 percent.  The beverage maker’s roots date to 1905, when Aujan’s
father and three uncles founded Abdulla Aujan & Brothers, which
traded commodities such as tobacco and rice. In 1928, the group
expanded to beverages when it acquired the exclusive rights to
import and distribute the original Vimto drink, a non-carbonated
cordial that was invented by an herbalist in the U.K. in 1908.  Aujan joined the family business in 1968, after studying in
the U.S. at  Fort Lewis College  in  Colorado . Unlike many family-
owned businesses in the Gulf that diversify into multiple
industries, Aujan kept the company focused on beverages. He
first expanded the company’s sales and distribution networks
beyond  Saudi Arabia , then helped to create Vimto Carbonated, a
fizzy version of the original British drink.  Virtuous Beer  It took Aujan almost two decades to develop the company’s
first original product, the  Rani Orange Float , which was
inspired by a mandarin drink he had tasted on a trip to  Japan .
Introduced in 1982, Rani juices come in ten flavors, feature
floating bits of fruit pulp, and have become so popular that
locals use the word “rani” to refer to any beverage laced with
particulates. In 2011, Rani accounted for 84 percent of Aujan’s
sales, according to the company.  “It’s true brand innovation,” said Hartmann of IMES
Consulting. “It’s become a product type rather than a product,
like Kleenex.”  In 1983, Aujan began importing the non-alcoholic beer
brand, Barbican, from its U.K.-based producer Bass Beers. In
1999, after manufacturing changes at Bass caused disruptions in
Aujan’s regular supply of the beer, he acquired the brand for
limited markets and, in 2010, bought it outright. The near-beer
is now produced in Aujan’s factory in Dubai.  ‘Edgy, Cool’  Barbican, which accounts for five percent of Aujan’s sales,
“is now a lifestyle brand,” said Hartmann. “Young, edgy,
cool, a healthy alternative to soda.”  Kenneth Shea, a beverage industry analyst with Bloomberg
Industries in Princeton, New Jersey, said Coca-Cola’s stake in
the company will widen that influence further.  “Coke likes to establish a relationship with the leading
regional player,” Shea said in a telephone interview. “What
this deal will likely do is help Coke distribute its own
products within Aujan’s distribution market. They’ll also learn
about the market from the market leader.”  Coca-Cola’s sales by volume in the Middle East region was
19 percent higher in the first nine months of 2012 than the same
period a year earlier, according to the company’s third-quarter
earnings report. In October 2011, the company  said  it planned to
spend $5 billion in the Middle East and North  Africa  over the
next ten years.  ‘Slow Down’  In an interview in December 2011 with U.K.-based The
Canmaker magazine, Aujan said he has no plans to retire. He does
intend to “slow down” in the near future and devote more time
to his conservation projects in Africa, according to the
magazine. Aujan’s son, Abdullah, 31, is the only one of his
three children who works at the family company.  “The recent Coca-Cola deal recognizes in monetary terms
all the hard work that was put into the company over the last
100 years,” Aujan said in the e-mail. “Our brands have stood
the test of time for decades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devon Pendleton in London at 
 dpendleton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  