-- HSBC Is Sued by U.S. Borrowers Over Mortgage Insurance
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-01-07T19:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/hsbc-is-sued-by-u-s-borrowers-over-mortgage-insurance.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s U.S. unit was
sued in Philadelphia by homeowners in three states over claims
that the bank took kickbacks from private mortgage insurers.  Five homeowners in  Pennsylvania , North Carolina and
 Maryland  sued alleging the company violated real estate laws by
collecting more than $84 million from private mortgage insurers
while paying only about $7.9 million toward purported
reinsurance claims. Referral payments made to HSBC’s affiliated
captive reinsurer HSBC Reinsurance Inc. were illegal, according
to a complaint filed Jan. 4 in federal court in Philadelphia.  “Such payments, which HSBC Re periodically passes through
to its parent HSBC USA in the form of lucrative dividends and
premium income, continue to date,” lawyers for the homeowners
said in the filing.  HSBC won’t comment “on this open legal matter,” spokesman
Robert Sherman said in an e-mail.  Homebuyers who take out mortgages with less than 20 percent
down payments are typically required to purchase private
mortgage insurance at closing. The premium paid by the borrower
protects the lender in the event of a default.  Beginning in 2004, HSBC took payments from private insurers
including Radian Guaranty Inc. and Genworth Mortgage Insurance
Co. in return for referring borrowers, according to the
complaint. HSBC received payment while taking little to no risk
under the underlying reinsurance contracts, the homeowners said.  The contracts, which aren’t publicly available, “provide
private mortgage insurers with no recourse if HSBC Re abandons
its reinsurance obligations at any time,” according to the
complaint. Genworth and Radian are also named in the complaint.  ‘Illusory’ Reinsurance  “The purported reinsurance provided by HSBC Re is
illusory,” lawyers for the homeowners said in the filing.  The homeowners are seeking to represent borrowers who
obtained residential mortgage loans from HSBC beginning Jan. 1,
2004, in their bid for restitution of all improperly collected
reinsurance premiums and disgorgement of HSBC’s “ill-gotten
gains.”  Al Orendorff, a spokesman for Genworth, had no immediate
comment on the complaint. Elizabeth Emmons, a spokeswoman for
Radian, didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  HSBC, based in  London , is  Europe ’s largest bank.  The case is Ba v. HSBC USA Inc., 13-00072, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 