-- HSBC N.J. Client Admits Conspiracy in Offshore Tax Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-01-08T10:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/hsbc-n-j-client-admits-conspiracy-in-offshore-tax-case.html
A New Jersey client of  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  pleaded guilty to charges that he hid as much as $4.7
million through Swiss and Indian accounts not declared to the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  Sanjay Sethi, 52, who owns SanVision Technology Inc.,
conspired with HSBC bankers in New York, London and Geneva to
hide assets from the IRS, he admitted yesterday in federal court
in  Newark , New Jersey. Sethi will pay a $2.37 million penalty
for failing to file reports required for foreign accounts.  “Sethi and his co-conspirators used nominee and shell
companies formed in tax-haven jurisdictions and elsewhere to
conceal the defendant’s ownership and control of assets and
income from the IRS,” according to his charging document.  HSBC’s Geneva-based private bank is one of at least 11
Swiss firms under investigation by U.S. prosecutors
investigating offshore tax evasion. HSBC’s Swiss unit gave lists
of employees to aid the U.S. probe, a spokesman said in April.
Last month, London-based HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank, agreed to
pay $1.92 billion to settle U.S. probes of money laundering in
the biggest such accord ever.  Medard Schoenmaeckers, a Zurich-based spokesman for HSBC’s
private bank, declined to comment on the court decision.  Since 2009, at least 50 U.S. clients of offshore banks and
more than two dozen bankers, lawyers and advisers have been
charged in a crackdown on offshore tax evasion by the U.S.  NRI Division  Sethi, of Watchung, New Jersey, is one of several HSBC
clients charged with opening undeclared accounts through the
bank’s NRI division, which were marketed to U.S. citizens of
Indian descent.  “He accepts full responsibility for what he did, and he is
happy to get this matter behind him,” said Sethi’s attorney,
Amy Walsh of Kostelanetz & Fink LLP of New York.  New Jersey businessman Vaibhav Dahake pleaded guilty in
April 2011 to conspiring with five HSBC bankers to hide his
Indian accounts from the IRS. His plea came four days after a
U.S. judge in  California  allowed the IRS to serve a so-called
John Doe summons on HSBC for information about Americans who may
have banked in  India  to hide accounts from U.S. tax authorities.  Last August, federal jurors convicted a Milwaukee
neurosurgeon, Arvind Ahuja, of filing a false tax return and
failing to file a Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts,
or FBAR, related to HSBC accounts in India.  Last year, Ashvin Desai, the owner of a medical device
company, was indicted in federal court in San Jose, California,
on charges that he filed a false tax return and failed to file
FBARs related to HSBC accounts in India. He awaits trial.  Amnesty Program  The IRS has said 33,000 U.S. taxpayers with offshore
accounts have avoided prosecution since 2009 by entering a
limited amnesty program, paying back taxes and identifying those
who helped them hide their accounts from authorities.  Hundreds of taxpayers in the program gave prosecutors
information that has helped build criminal cases against bankers
and advisers.  Sethi became a lawful permanent resident of the U.S. in
March 1989 and a U.S. citizen in June 2004. In 1992, he created
SanVision, which provides software development, database
management and other information technology services for banking
and insurance clients, court records show.  He used a Swiss charitable trust and a Cayman Islands
corporation to hide the proceeds of real estate transactions in
India, according to his charging document known as a criminal
information.  Undeclared Account  Sethi also used a British Virgin Islands corporation to
hide his ownership of an undeclared Swiss account for
“unreported business receipts and reimbursements for actual
business expenses” of SanVision, he admitted.  He admitted conspiring with U.S. Banker A, a senior vice
president in New York of a cross-border banking group within the
private banking division; U.K. Banker A, a “high-ranking
executive” in  London  and head of a cross-border banking group
focusing on clients with ties to south Asia; and Swiss Banker A,
a financial adviser based in Geneva.  “It is our policy to start an internal investigation in
cases of alleged misconduct by one of our employees, which we
have done in this situation,” bank spokesman Schoenmaeckers
said by phone.  Offshore Erosion  HSBC wants its private bank, which includes units in
Switzerland, the U.K., Germany and Asia, to win new business by
focusing on wealth created in emerging economies, onshore
domestic markets and through referrals from within the firm. The
traditional Swiss offshore private-banking model built on
secrecy is disappearing, HSBC Holdings Chief Executive Officer
 Stuart Gulliver  told investors in May.  Sethi admitted that from 2001 until 2009, he had undeclared
accounts in Switzerland and India. His highest balance of $4.7
million was in 2007, when he sold a house in Watchung for $2.2
million, according to his information.  Sethi faces as many as five years in prison, and U.S.
District Judge Jose Linares set his sentencing for April 18.
Prosecutors said the total tax loss to the government was
between $80,000 and $200,000.  The case is U.S. v. Sethi, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  