-- Seals, Beaches, Pasta Make Baja Sur Memorable: Travel
-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h
-- 2013-01-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/seals-beaches-pasta-make-baja-sur-memorable-travel.html
Swimming with barking sea lions in
the Sea of Cortez felt unreal.  It was one of the highlights of a two-week trip to Baja
California Sur, Mexico.  Our group of European friends departed by motorboat from
Playa Balandra, 14 miles north of La Paz, heading for Isla
Espiritu Santo, an uninhabited natural reserve protected by
 Unesco .  Before diving into the water outfitted with goggles,
snorkel and flippers, we were briefed on how to safely keep
those noisy creatures happy.  We were not to approach their rocks, as that could be
mistaken for invasion of territory. No eye contact. And if they
came to us, which they’d often playfully do, we were not to move
closer or touch them. They sometimes mistake human legs for
toys, we were warned, and like to bite on them.  So I followed instructions and watched from a reasonable
distance, entranced as they pirouetted.  Our windy ride continued, past canyons and rock formations,
untouched inlets and sandy beaches, until we reached  Baja Camp ,
a safari-like luxury lodging comprising five double tents and a
main living quarters, where margaritas and pasta are commonly
served to guests at the otherwise deserted bay.  Tourist Corridor  We were only visiting for the day from our base on the
Tourist Corridor, an 18-mile stretch along the sea between the
towns of  Cabo San Lucas  and  San Jose del Cabo .  Luckily, Italians love their compatriots and owner Andrea
Tamagnini gave me (and the 12 others on the tour) permission to
step foot on the camp.  Tents were simple -- a double bed, side tables and a gas
lamp -- yet very nice, with a little water basin by the entrance
to rinse off the burning-hot sand. A typical stay for
overnighters includes kayaking around the island in the morning,
a free afternoon, drinks while watching the sun set over the
sea, followed by a home-cooked dinner.  To cap a perfect day, on our way back, happily exhausted by
the trip, sea and sun, we stopped yet again by “ Sunset da Mona
Lisa ,” our new favorite local restaurant.  It was the third time in a week we returned to watch the
sunset from a cliff on the water. Al dente linguini with clams
was followed by the catch of the day cooked in a thick salt
crust. I’m glad we weren’t put off by the restaurant’s name; we
would have missed one of the best parts of our trip.  Pina Coladas  On less adventurous days we would sip pina coladas on the
beach by our hotel or in one of the many swimming pools facing
the Sea of Cortez. Though it was forbidden to bring drinks to
the pool area, everyone did. A live-and-let-live atmosphere
pervaded the  Sheraton Hacienda del Mar  -- as well as everywhere
else in Baja.  The one downside of our lodging was that we could not swim
in the sea. The breaking waves in front of the hotel were so
strong that it was too dangerous to get in and out of the water.
So in the afternoons, past the worst sun hours, we would go in
search of alternative beaches or visit nearby towns.  We couldn’t believe our eyes when we reached  Cabo Pulmo , at
the edge of the only live coral reef on North America’s west
coast. We spent the day on a stretch of deserted white sand; the
only live creatures we encountered were majestic pelicans,
tirelessly nose-diving into the water in search of lunch.  Surfer Art  For entertainment, we hung out on Acapulquito beach, for
so-called beginner surfers, though the waves seemed huge to me.
There were families, hippies, kids and friendly dogs. We rented
boards and found a teacher who patiently instructed us in the
surfer’s art.  Unlike central and southern  Mexico , where you’ll find Mayan
and Aztec remains, there are no ancient ruins in Baja
California. Yet time seems to have stopped in San Jose del Cabo,
a charming town with an Old Mexico feel to it.  A long street of small stores ends in the main square,
Plaza Mijares, defined by the presence of the Parroquia San
Jose, where residents gather on Sundays for Mass. Behind the
plaza lies the Art District, which has in recent times become
the cultural center of Los Cabos.  Very different is the opposite end of the Corridor, Cabo
San Lucas. It’s hard to imagine the backwater it once was,
before sport fishing and the building of the transpeninsular
highway drew hordes of tourists.  But the crowded, boat-filled marina, surrounded by shopping
malls and luxury boutiques, is worth a tour and maybe a night
out, its denizens exuding the warmth found all around Baja.  An afternoon sampling tequilas to bring home ended with a
water-taxi ride to Land’s End, the southern-most tip of the
California Peninsula. Here the Pacific Ocean meets the Sea of
Cortez, with more fish species than days in a year.  United Airlines flies nonstop from New York to San Jose del
Cabo. For more information:
Baja Camp:  http://www.bajacamp.com .
Sunset da Mona Lisa:  http://sunsetmonalisa.com .
Sheraton Hacienda del Mar:
 http://www.starwoodhotels.com/sheraton .
Cabo Pulmo:  http://www.cabopulmopark.com .  (Lili Rosboch writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Scott
Reyburn  on auctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lili Rosboch in New York 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 