-- SEC Names Ex-CFTC Enforcement Chief Aronow General Counsel
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-01-07T21:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/sec-says-geoffrey-aronow-formerly-with-cftc-is-new-counsel.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission today named Geoffrey F. Aronow, a former enforcement
chief at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, to be its top
in-house lawyer.  Aronow, a Washington-based partner at law firm Bingham
McCutchen LLP, will begin his role as SEC general counsel later
this month. His clients have included Christine Serwinski, who
was chief financial officer at  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s North
American broker-dealer before it collapsed in 2011.  The SEC general counsel evaluates regulations, advises the
SEC chairman and represents the agency in lawsuits and other
legal matters.  “I’m truly honored to re-enter public service as the
General Counsel at an agency with such a storied history and
critical mission of investor protection and effective market
oversight,” Aronow said in a statement.  Aronow, 57, is the first outsider hired by new SEC Chairman
Elisse B. Walter, who took over after Mary Schapiro left the
agency last month. SEC chief accountant Paul A. Beswick was
promoted last month from within the agency, while two other top
positions have been filled by acting directors.  Aronow didn’t respond to voice messages seeking comment.  Walter and Aronow Walter have known each other at least
since the 1990s, according to Daniel Waldman, a Washington-based
partner at law firm Arnold & Porter LLP, who was CFTC general
counsel from 1996 to 1999.  ‘Good Relationship’  “He has a good relationship with the chairman, which is a
really important part of that job,” Waldman said. “I think the
two of them will be a formidable team.”  Aronow served as director of enforcement at the CFTC from
1995 to 1999, according to his biography on Bingham’s website.
He also has served on disciplinary panels for the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, the brokerage industry’s self-
regulator.  “Geoff brings the ideal combination of practical
knowledge, expertise, and common sense that is so critical to
addressing the often nuanced and difficult issues that come
before the Commission,” Walter said in a statement.  While at the CFTC, Aronow oversaw an enforcement case that
yielded the highest fines in the commission’s history. The CFTC
accused Japan-based  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  and Merrill Lynch & Co. of
manipulating world copper prices in late 1995.  Sumitomo paid $150 million in 1998 to settle the charges.
Merrill Lynch paid about $25 million in 1999.  Morale Booster  “He negotiated a well-received and highly praised
settlement in that case,” said Michael Greenberger, a professor
at the University of Maryland School of Law who worked at the
CFTC with Aronow. “He did a terrific job of leading the
enforcement division, improving morale in the division.”  Aronow left the government in 1999 to represent clients
facing SEC and CFTC enforcement cases and other regulatory
proceedings. In 2008, he joined Bingham McCutchen, where his
other recent clients included accounting firm KPMG LLP, whose
Chinese affiliate is feuding with U.S. regulators over its
refusal to turn over audit working papers.  “I think he will be very balanced, but I think he is very
open-minded to regulatory reform,” Greenberger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  