-- Sharp Revenue Gaining as Capital-Raising Measures Considered
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2013-01-07T08:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/sharp-revenue-gaining-as-capital-measures-considered-okuda-says.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ,  Japan ’s worst-performing
major stock last year, said higher demand for liquid-crystal-
display TVs and home appliances, coupled with a weaker yen, are
improving earnings as it considers ways to boost capital.  Revenue in September, October, November and December each
surpassed year-earlier results, President Takashi Okuda said
today. Sharp, which lost 55 percent of its market value in 2012,
will disclose its strategy for increasing capital in a medium-
term plan by March 31, he said. Okuda declined to say whether
the company is in talks with any parties to sell new shares.  “LCD TV demand has been recovering,” Okuda said in  Osaka ,
where the company is based. Sales of appliances are “robust,”
and the weakened Japanese currency is a tailwind for the
company, Okuda said.  The maker of Aquos TVs warned in November about its ability
to survive after hemorrhaging 103 billion yen ($1.2 billion) in
cash from operations in the fiscal first half amid falling
demand and competition from Samsung Electronics Co. In December,
Sharp turned to  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest maker of mobile-phone
chips, for as much as 9.9 billion yen in new capital after
failing to secure a planned investment from Foxconn Technology
Group.  “If demand for large-sized TVs is recovering, Sharp would
benefit significantly,” Keita Wakabayashi, an analyst at Mito
Securities Co. in Tokyo, said by phone today. “There are signs
that the TV market may be bottoming out. Panel prices have
rebounded on lower supply, while the global economy doesn’t
appear to be worsening much further.”  Television Shipments  Global TV shipments will probably remain unchanged this
year after falling 6 percent in 2012 because of economic
conditions, researcher DisplaySearch  said  Jan. 4.  Sales of home appliances under a rural stimulus program in
 China , the world’s second-biggest economy and Sharp’s largest
overseas market, rose 18.8 percent last year, the Ministry of
Commerce said in a statement on its website today.  Sharp fell 4.4 percent to 282 yen at the close of trade in
Tokyo. The stock’s 55 percent decline last year was the  largest 
on Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average.  Operating income , or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, has been beating the company’s plan
since October, Okuda said, without elaborating.  “We aim to sustain the momentum in the January-to-March
quarter so that we can meet our operating profit target,” he
said.  Operating Goal  Sharp, which posted an operating loss of 168.9 billion yen
in the six months ended Sept. 30, is projecting an operating
profit of about 13.8 billion yen for the fiscal second half
ending March 31, the company said in a statement today.  Concern about a second-half operating loss is expected to
increase as earnings from panels known as IGZO will probably
deteriorate, Kota Ezawa, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  Tokyo ,
said in a Jan. 4 report.  “Further debt expansion at the end of December is also a
big concern,” Ezawa said in the report.  Sharp’s interest-bearing  debt  totaled 1.2 trillion yen as
of Sept. 30, its highest level ever, while the net asset ratio
fell to 10.3 percent, less than half of what it was six months
earlier, the company said in November.  Qualcomm Investment  The electronics maker raised 4.9 billion yen from San
Diego-based Qualcomm as part of a two-step transaction, Sharp
said Dec. 27. The second share sale is based on certain
conditions, including Sharp posting an  operating profit  in the
six months to March 2013 and holding 125 billion yen in cash and
100 billion yen in net assets as of March 31.  The capital partnership will help the two companies team up
for development of smartphone displays, they said in December.  In March, Sharp signed an agreement to sell a 9.9 percent
stake through a new-share offering to Foxconn at 550 yen apiece,
for a total investment of 67 billion yen. The TV maker has
failed to close the deal as its shares plunged amid  widening
loss forecasts , prompting renegotiation of the terms.  Sharp sent a letter to Foxconn asking for a progress report
on the Taiwanese company’s possible investment, Okuda said. The
companies are continuing discussions, though Okuda said he
hasn’t met directly with Foxconn Chairman Terry Gou since
October.  “A public share offering is among many ways to boost
capital,” Okuda said. “There is the problem of dilution. We
are looking for the best option for us.”  Sharp is  forecasting  a record full-year net loss of 450
billion yen for the 12 months ending March 31 because of falling
prices of LCD panels and sluggish demand for solar panels. The
100-year-old inventor of mechanical pencils is selling assets
and cutting jobs to revive profit after posting a record 376
billion-yen loss last fiscal year.  Sharp is counting on its IGZO display technology, which
consumes less power than conventional panels, to recover. The
company has lined up customers for the displays, a senior
executive said in November, after saying earlier last year it
was struggling to find buyers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  