-- Shell Leads S. Africa on Record Oil Rush as Coal Falters: Energy
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-01-07T16:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/shell-leads-s-africa-on-record-oil-rush-as-coal-falters-energy.html
South Africa, the African continent’s
economic engine, is on the cusp of an oil rush never before seen
in the country as burgeoning energy demand exposes the
vulnerability of its dependence on coal.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S. energy producer, plans
to search for crude and natural gas off eastern South Africa
after snapping up blocks near Durban, while  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  bought stakes in about 24 million acres offshore.  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has led investor interest, exploring prospects
off the west coast.  “The presence of one super-major makes others take an
interest,” said Dave van der Spuy, resource evaluation manager
at state regulator Petroleum Agency SA. “The level of activity
and interest in South Africa is at its highest ever.”  International energy companies are entering South Africa,
the continent’s biggest oil importer, as new technology boosts
their ability to find and pump hydrocarbons from deep underneath
the seabed. Such advances have already opened up energy
provinces elsewhere in African waters, including off neighboring
 Mozambique , home to the largest gas finds in a decade.  South Africa had proven oil reserves of 15 million barrels
in January 2011, located to the south and off the west coast
near the Namibian border, according to Oil and Gas Journal. The
country, isolated from foreign investment until apartheid ended
in 1994, has no “significant” crude output, according to the
U.S.  Energy Information Administration .  Coal Nation  By contrast, the country produces more coal than any other
nation in Africa, and relies on the fuel to generate three-
quarters of its power. The emergence of an oil industry could
lower that dependence, tested last year as mine strikes
threatened supply, while bolstering an economy that grew at the
slowest pace since the 2009 recession in the third quarter.  “The biggest restriction on the economy of South  Africa  is
the availability of energy,” Simon Ashby-Rudd, global head of
oil and gas at Standard Bank Group, said Dec. 21.  South Africa has embarked on a drive to diversify and boost
power generation capacity to avoid a repeat of blackouts in 2008
that caused mines to shut down. Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the
state utility that supplies about 95 percent of the country’s
power, has capacity of about 40,000 megawatts, with almost all
of that coming from coal.  An average 23 percent of generating capacity has been
offline for maintenance since April 1, according to data from
the utility. South Africa aims to more than double its
generating capacity by 2030, according to the EIA.  Exploration Interest  The government, seeking to attract oil and gas producers as
the energy mix expands, has offered seismic data to explorers.  Exxon will enter the nation after buying a stake in blocks
from Impact Oil & Gas Ltd., it said Dec. 17. Shell is collecting
data in the Orange Basin near the Namibian border after winning
a 37,000-square-kilometer (14,300-square-mile) area in water
depths of 500 to 3,500 meters in February. Cairn India Ltd.,  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  have also
struck exploration accords.  Interest in African oil and gas has increased as companies’
traditional fields age, while expansion in some of the world’s
largest energy provinces is restricted by tightened state
control over natural resources and by conflict.  “Everyone is revisiting the geology of South Africa as a
place of interest,” said Amy Myers Jaffe, executive director of
energy and sustainability at the University of  California ,
Davis. “Also, investing in the Middle East and  Russia  is
looking less attractive geopolitically these days, so that
increases the interest in Africa in general.”  Seismic Surveys  Shell has held talks with Anadarko and  Eni SpA (ENI)  to join gas
projects off Mozambique, after last year losing a bidding war
with  Thailand ’s PTT Exploration & Production Pcl for Anadarko’s
partner Cove Energy Plc. Irving, Texas-based Exxon, missing out
on recent finds in Mozambique, Ghana and Uganda, made
discoveries off Tanzania with  Statoil ASA (STL)  last year.  Companies have commissioned six seismic surveys in South
Africa in the fiscal year, according to a presentation by
Petroleum Agency SA.  “The entire offshore acreage is either taken up or is
under application,” Tebogo Motloung, manager of licensing and
legal compliance at the agency, said in an e-mail.  Energy discoveries may help lower  oil imports , which
account for about 67 percent of the nation’s 550,000-barrel-a-
day demand, according to the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2009,
South Africa produced 67 billion cubic feet of the 191 billion
cubic feet of gas it consumed, sourcing the remainder from
Mozambique.  Shale Gas  “If they find significant volumes, it will fundamentally
change the energy infrastructure of South Africa and with cheap
domestic energy, as you’re finding in the U.S., will
revolutionize the economy,” Standard Bank’s Ashby-Rudd said in
an interview in  London .  The U.S. became the largest gas producer in 2009 after
developing shale resources. South Africa has also given the
green light to shale-gas exploration once a regulatory framework
is in place, lifting a moratorium on the use of hydraulic
fracturing to test the extent of reserves in September.  Shell in 2011 applied to drill 24 exploratory wells in the
onshore Karoo basin, an arid region in the west of South Africa
that may hold 485 trillion cubic feet of shale-gas resources,
EIA data show. That’s about 7.3 percent of the global total,
making it the world’s fifth-largest gas reserve.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
has also agreed with Falcon Oil & Gas Ltd. to explore the area,
the companies said Dec. 12.  Fuel Growth  “The government will not stand in the way of exploration
and is certainly looking to diversify,” Mark Rosenberg, an
analyst at Eurasia Group in New York, said in an e-mail. “South
Africa will present significant demand upstream.”  Shale and deepwater drilling could provide new sources of
income in South Africa, where economic growth eased to an
estimated 2.4 percent last year from 3.5 percent a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cairn agreed in August to explore the 19,922-square-
kilometer Block 1 in the Orange Basin with local oil company
PetroSA. Canadian Natural Resources plans to drill a block with
“billion-barrel-type structures” as soon as 2013, a Dec. 4
statement shows.  South Africa granted 25 technical cooperation permits in
2012 and eight exploration licenses, according to Petroleum
Agency SA. That compares with 10 cooperation permits a year
earlier and three in 2010.  “Demand is clear and in certain basins around the coast of
South Africa the source has been established,” Standard Bank’s
Ashby-Rudd said. “Now the hunt is on to find the appropriate
geological structures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  