-- Shui On Land Falls on Full-Year Profit Warning: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-07T08:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/shui-on-land-falls-on-full-year-profit-warning-hong-kong-mover.html
Shui On Land Ltd. (272) , controlled by  Hong
Kong  billionaire Vincent Lo, fell to the lowest in a week after
saying it expects full-year profit to decline “significantly.”  The shares fell 1.5 percent to HK$3.88 at the local close
in Hong Kong, the lowest since Dec. 31, after having the biggest
decline since Dec. 18. The profit warning is mainly because the
company completed fewer properties compared with 2011, Shui On
said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today.  Chinese home sales growth slowed last year as the
government maintained property curbs started almost three years
ago. The country will stick to home purchase restrictions and
will “strictly” curb speculative housing demand in 2013, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported last month, citing the
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.  “It’s not really a surprise that the company couldn’t meet
the target,” said Jeffrey Gao, a Shanghai-based property
analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities, in a telephone
interview today. “They pay a lot of attention to details at
their projects, so their schedule for launches is usually very
late in the year.”  SOCAM Development Ltd. (983)  cut its holding in Shui On Land to
22.4 million shares, or 0.37 percent, through a private
placement last month.  There was still “some distance” to Shui On spinning off
the Xintiandi unit, which developed the  Xintiandi  entertainment
complex from century-old homes in  Shanghai , and selling shares
in Hong Kong,  Apple Daily  reported in November, citing Chief
Executive Officer Freddy Lee.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  