-- SNB’s Zurbruegg Is Concerned About Swiss Property Market
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-01-07T10:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/snb-s-zurbruegg-is-concerned-about-swiss-property-market.html
Swiss National Bank Governing Board
member Fritz Zurbruegg said the central bank is worried about
the development of the country’s property market.  “We are concerned,” Zurbruegg said in a television
interview with the SF state broadcaster, published on its
website today. “We had the impression that the situation eased
to a certain extent in the second quarter. Sadly this wasn’t
repeated in the third quarter.”  The SNB’s decision to impose a ceiling on the franc in
September 2011 as demand for the currency surged has made the
Swiss property market more attractive for foreign investors
seeking a haven for their money. The UBS Real Estate Bubble
Index entered the “risk zone” for the first time since 1991 in
the third quarter, partly fueled by record-low  interest rates .  “We have a very special situation of  interest rates at
zero  and from a monetary policy standpoint we absolutely can’t
raise rates,” Zurbruegg said when asked why the SNB didn’t
increase rates to solve the property-market issue.  None of the 12 economists in a Bloomberg survey expects a
rate increase in the first six months of this year and only one
sees the SNB raising interest rates in the third quarter. The
SNB has held rates at zero since August 2011.  Switzerland  introduced rules in July to cut mortgage-
lending risks, including measures that will give the government
the discretion to raise  capital requirements  for banks to target
specific parts of the credit market. The SNB would have to
request such a buffer.  “While we -- after consulting with Swiss financial
regulator Finma -- initiate such a process, the government makes
the decision,” Zurbruegg said. He declined to say whether the
SNB had submitted a request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  