-- Softbank Declines on Planned Sprint Deal Complaint: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-01-07T08:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/softbank-declines-on-planned-sprint-deal-complaint-tokyo-mover.html
Softbank Corp. (9984) , controlled by
billionaire Masayoshi Son, fell the most in more than two weeks
in Tokyo trading because of a planned complaint regarding its
proposed purchase of about 70 percent of  Sprint (S)  Nextel Corp.  The Japanese mobile-phone operator  dropped  1.9 percent to
close at 3,065 yen, the biggest decline since Dec. 20. Crest
Financial Corp. said Jan. 4 it will ask the U.S. Federal
Communications Commission to block Softbank’s purchase of
 Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint along with Sprint’s planned
acquisition of outstanding shares in  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Clearwire investor Crest, which has also filed a lawsuit
opposing Softbank’s $20.1 billion investment in Sprint, said the
deal undervalues Bellevue, Washington-based Clearwire’s
airwaves. The opposition may disrupt Tokyo-based Softbank’s plan
to enter the U.S. as it tries to pare a reliance on  Japan ’s
shrinking mobile-phone market.  “The investor’s move to block the deals is probably
impacting Softbank shares today,” said Shinji Moriyuki, a
Tokyo-based SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. analyst. “It may impact
the offer for Clearwire by Sprint, but it’s too early yet to say
anything concrete about the deals’ outcome.”  Crest Financial plans to file its complaint to the FCC by
Jan. 28, the deadline for comments about the two Sprint deals,
David Schumacher, general counsel for the Houston-based company,
said Jan. 4.  Softbank plans to pay $12.1 billion to Sprint shareholders
and to invest $8 billion of new capital in the U.S. company,
according to an Oct. 15 statement. The deal would be the biggest
publicly announced outbound acquisition by a Japanese company
since at least 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Clearwire closed unchanged at $2.88 in  New York  on Jan. 4.
The company’s board has agreed to Sprint’s plan to buy
outstanding shares at $2.97 apiece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  