-- Solarworld Soars After Buffett’s Industry Stake: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-01-07T11:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/solarworld-soars-after-buffett-s-industry-stake-frankfurt-mover.html
Solarworld AG (SWV)  had the biggest five-
day advance in  Frankfurt  trading since 2008 after  Warren Buffett 
agreed to invest as much as $2.5 billion in two solar projects
and as new installations in the country reached a record.  Germany’s biggest solar-panel maker has climbed as much as
52 percent since Dec. 27, the steepest jump for five trading
days on an intraday basis since Nov. 5, 2008. The stock rose 9.7
percent to 1.53 euros at 12:11 p.m. in Frankfurt, with trading
volume of more than four times the three-month daily average.  The shares are benefiting from Buffett’s vote of confidence
in the industry, said Erkan Aycicek, an analyst at Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg AG. Buffett’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co.
agreed to a deal for two California projects that are set to be
the world’s largest photovoltaic development, according to a
statement on Jan. 2.  Germany , the biggest solar market by
installed capacity, may have added a record 7,634 megawatts of
capacity last year, according to the country’s grid regulator.  “The healthy 2012 installation numbers in Germany may be
another reason to be more optimistic, as Solarworld is
traditionally strong at home,” Aycicek said today by phone.
“Many investors have shorted the stock and now have to cover
that.”  China Complaint  Still, while solar power performed well in Germany in the
fourth quarter, which was the first to reflect the latest
reductions in subsidies, Solarworld has struggled in its home
market recently, said Stefan Freudenreich, an analyst at Equinet
Bank AG, who recommends selling the shares.  Solarworld, which led a group of manufacturers in a
complaint against unfair competition from Chinese companies,
expects the EU to announce anti-dumping duties as early as May,
Chief Executive Officer Frank Asbeck said last week.  “From a strict operative viewpoint, there’s no reason why
the stock should be surging,” Freudenreich said by phone.
“While it may be a bet on anti-dumping tariffs against Chinese
rivals in the European Union, which would definitely help
Solarworld, I’m pessimistic that the EU will take that step.”  Fifteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg have the equivalent
of sell recommendations on the stock and five recommend holding
the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  