-- StanChart-Backed Ramky Enviro Plans $200 Million IPO
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e   a n d   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2013-01-08T11:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/stanchart-backed-ramky-enviro-plans-200-million-ipo.html
Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd., an
Indian waste management company, plans to raise $200 million in
the nation’s first initial share sale to finance a power plant
fueled by urban refuse.  The company, backed by  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s private
equity unit, will file its application for the initial public
offering next month, Executive Director Goutham Reddy said in an
interview in his office in Hyderabad. The company has hired
 Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB) ,  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co.,  Bank of America ,
IDFC Capital Ltd., SBI Capital Markets Ltd. and Edelweiss
Capital Ltd. to manage the share sale, he said.  Ramky Enviro, based in the southern Indian city of
Hyderabad, is seeking to tap investor demand after a 26 percent
 surge  in the benchmark  stock index  last year, the best among the
world’s four biggest  emerging markets , helped revive IPOs. The
waste manager plans 17 billion rupees ($308 million) of
investment in the next three years to help almost triple sales
to 50 billion rupees by March 2018.  “Once I invest the money I have committed, the company
will grow at a rapid pace,” Reddy said. “It’s going to be one
of the most promising sectors as the government gets stricter
about environmental regulations.”  ‘Immense Opportunity’  India ’s urban areas generate about 55 million tons of
municipal solid waste and 38 billion liters of sewage every
year, and waste output per capita is growing as much as 1.33
percent annually, according to the website of Chennai-based
consultants  Energy Alternatives India . Federal and state
governments offer incentives to help harness energy from waste
material, while cutting environmental pollution.  “The overall space is lucrative and the opportunity is
immense,” said Mangesh Bhadang, a research analyst at Mumbai-
based Quant Broking Pvt. “Environmental issues will keep coming
up and we need companies that take care of garbage collection to
effluent treatment.”  An erosion of the market value of other  renewable energy 
companies because of their inability to benefit from government
policies to promote clean energy may deter investors from buying
Ramky Enviro shares, said Sitaraman Iyer, an analyst with MSFL
Research.  Orient Green (OGPL)  Power Co., whose shares started trading in
October 2010 after raising 9 billion rupees from an IPO, has
declined 77 percent below its IPO price of 47 rupees, while
 Indowind Energy Ltd. (IEL)  has plunged 93 percent from the offer price
of 65 rupees after its debut in September 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Facing Challenge  “The renewables sector isn’t doing very well in India,”
said Mumbai-based Iyer. Lack of development of the Indian
renewable credit market, no government support and unorganized
raw material suppliers are some of the challenges facing the
industry, he said.  India requires power distributors, steelmakers and miners
to either produce or buy as much as 10 percent of their annual
electricity from clean sources. Companies aren’t taking the
regulation seriously, which is undermining the one-year-old
market for trading renewable-energy credits, Tarun Kapoor, joint
secretary in the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, said in
November.  Each credit represents one megawatt-hour of clean
electricity fed into the grid. Companies facing the target
include  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) ,  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) ,  Tata Power Co. (TPWR) 
and  Reliance Infrastructure (RELI)  Ltd. Those failing to secure enough
renewable power locally to meet the target can opt to buy
credits sold by wind farms, hydropower and biomass plants over
the country’s two power exchanges.  State Firms  “While the private sector companies are buying the credits
as per the targets set for them, it is the state-owned companies
that aren’t keeping up,” MSFL’s Iyer said.  Ramky Enviro, led by Chairman Ayodhya Rami Reddy, plans to
invest 5 billion rupees from the IPO proceeds to set up a 48
megawatt “waste-to-energy” plant in Hyderabad, said Executive
Director Reddy. The company forecasts sales will increase 21
percent to 17 billion rupees in the year ending March 31.  The company reported profit after tax of 2.1 billion rupees
in the year ended March 31, compared with 1.5 billion rupees in
the previous 12 months, according to a report dated Dec. 6 by
 Crisil Ltd. (CRISIL) , the local unit of  Standard & Poor’s .  The company plans to complete the share sale in the second
quarter of this year, and raise debt to finance the rest of its
investment plans, Reddy said. Share sales by Indian companies
almost doubled to 573 billion rupees in 2012 as the benchmark
BSE Ltd. Sensitive Index reached a two-year high last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Road Builder  Ramky Infrastructure Ltd. (RMKY) , a builder of roads, bridges and
water projects and founded by Ayodhya Rami Reddy, jumped as much
as 5.1 percent today before trading at 127.85 rupees in Mumbai.  Ramky Infrastructure went public in October 2010, and its
shares have slumped 72 percent from an offer price of 450
rupees, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are only a handful of companies in India setting up
projects using waste to produce energy,” said Shantanu Jaiswal,
a New Delhi-based analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “The
sector is still developing. If Ramky and similar companies
manage to generate profits from their projects, there are
chances investors may look at these markets favorably.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net ;
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  