-- Stem-Cell Research Can Proceed as Court Rejects Appeal
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-01-07T14:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/stem-cell-research-can-proceed-as-court-rejects-appeal.html
The U.S. Supreme Court let federal
funding continue for human embryonic stem-cell research, turning
away an appeal that accused the Obama administration of skirting
federal law.  The justices today left intact a federal appeals court
ruling that said the  National Institutes of Health  could keep
sponsoring medical research using embryonic stem cells. Two
researchers who rely on adult stem cells, rather than embryonic
ones,  James Sherley  and Theresa Deisher, sued to challenge the
funding.  President  Barack Obama  expanded embryonic stem-cell
research when he took office in 2009, lifting restrictions put
in place by his predecessor,  George W. Bush . The NIH under Bush
limited funding to projects that used then-existing lines of
stem cells.  In lifting the limits, Obama said embryonic stem cells
could aid creation of new treatments for diseases and injuries,
including Parkinson’s, juvenile diabetes and severed spinal
cords.  Embryonic stem cells, which are derived from days-old human
embryos, have the potential to form any of the body’s 200 or so
cell types, such as nerve cells or brain cells, and to repair or
replace damaged tissue or organs. Adult  stem cells , found in
living tissue, have a more limited potential to become other
cell types.  Opponents of embryonic stem-cell research say federal
funding amounts to taxpayer support for the destruction of human
life.  Human Embryos  The lawsuit challenged the guidelines the NIH put in place
under Obama, saying the agency was violating a 1996 federal law
that bars the destruction of human embryos and their creation
for research purposes. Sherley and Deisher also said the NIH
didn’t comply with the federal law that governs administrative
rulemaking.  A judge in Washington ordered a halt to federal funding for
embryonic stem-cell research in 2010.  A federal appeals court
prevented that ruling from going into effect and then reversed
it.  The case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 12-454.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  