-- Most Swiss Stocks Decline; Schmolz Falls, Banks Rally
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-01-07T16:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-banks-rally-on-basel.html
Most  stocks in Switzerland  declined
after the Swiss Market Index rose to a four-year high, as
investors bet recent gains in share prices have exceeded the
outlook for company earnings.  Schmolz & Bickenbach AG retreated 4.1 percent, snapping a
four-day rally.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s
largest lenders, advanced at least 1.9 percent after global
central-bank chiefs agreed to ease a proposed liquidity rule.
 Swisscom (SCMN)  AG gained after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended
buying shares in the country’s biggest phone company.  The SMI slipped 0.1 percent to 7,049.30 at the close of
trading in Zurich, as 13 shares fell and seven rose. The gauge
rallied 3.5 percent last week, the biggest jump in 13 months, as
U.S. lawmakers approved a compromise budget that avoided most
deficit-reduction measures that may have pushed the economy into
a recession. The  SMI (SMI)  gained 15 percent last year. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also lost 0.1 percent today.  “It’s not unlikely that we’ll see some near-term
consolidation as we probably can’t keep going at this rate,”
said Serge Berger, a Zurich-based trader at Blue Oak Advisors
LLC. “Investors need to catch a breath and get back into the
market. Beyond that,  market sentiment  still seems to be good and
it’s hard to imagine that things would fall apart in January.
There’s potential to go higher this month and next.”  The SMI’s  valuation  has reached 20.9 times reported profit,
the highest level since 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The number of shares changing hands was 16 percent
higher than the 30-day average today.  U.S. Debt  In the U.S., Republicans are planning to use the need to
raise the American government’s $16.4 trillion debt ceiling to
force President  Barack Obama  to accept spending cuts to
entitlement programs such as Medicare. Congress must act as
early as mid-February to prevent a default.  Schmolz & Bickenbach slumped 4.1 percent to 3.03 Swiss
francs after SonntagsZeitung cited Chairman Hans-Peter Zehnder
as saying the company has no information on possible takeover
attempts by financial investors. The shares jumped 10 percent
last week after Handelsblatt reported the maker of high-grade
steel products may be sold.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the owner of the Cartier
brand, retreated 1.5 percent to 73.85 francs, posting the worst
performance on the SMI.  UBS and Credit Suisse jumped 1.9 percent to 15 francs and 3
percent to 24.38 francs, respectively.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) 
rose 1.5 percent to 34.36 francs. Global bank regulators meeting
in  Basel , Switzerland, yesterday widened the range of highly
liquid assets that banks must keep to meet short-term
obligations. The officials also gave lenders an extra four years
to fully comply with the rule.  Swisscom rose 0.5 percent to 405.20 francs after Goldman
Sachs raised the stock to buy from neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  