-- U.K. Stocks Drop From 23-Month High; Banks Advance
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-01-07T17:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/u-k-stocks-drop-from-23-month-high-banks-advance.html
U.K. stocks  declined from a 23-month
high amid concern recent gains in share prices overshot the
outlook for company earnings.  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  dropped 1.5 percent after a report
said the company has been accused of bribery in China.  Fresnillo
Plc (FRES)  slid 1.9 percent as silver prices fell for a third day.
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  led a rally among
lenders as global central banks agreed to ease a liquidity rule.  The FTSE 100 Index slipped 25.26 points, or 0.4 percent, to
6,064.58 in London. The benchmark gauge last week climbed to the
highest level since February 2011 as the  U.S. Congress  reached a
budget compromise to avoid automatic deficit-reduction measures.
FTSE 100 companies are trading at 15.6 times reported earnings,
the highest since December 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “After the big rally we saw last week, investors are
taking profits,” said Jacques Porta, who helps oversee $627
million as  fund manager  at Ofi Patrimoine in Paris. “There is
still some uncertainty regarding the U.S. debt issue. We also
need to be cautious ahead of the U.S. earnings season that
begins tomorrow.”  The broader FTSE All-Share Index also declined 0.3 percent,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.2 percent today.  U.S. Debt  In the U.S., Republicans yesterday attempted to shift the
the budget debate’s focus away from taxes to spending cuts.
Lawmakers are discussing an increase in the government’s $16.4
trillion  debt limit , which it has already reached. The Treasury
is now using extraordinary measures that the  Congressional
Budget Office  says will end as early as mid-February.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Republican, said
yesterday that further tax changes are off the table, a stance
that Democratic Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland said
will be a “recipe for more gridlock.” The New Year deal
involved raising taxes on top earners.  Alcoa Inc. unofficially starts the U.S. earnings season
with the release of its fourth-quarter results tomorrow.  Global central bank chiefs yesterday allowed lenders to use
an expanded range of assets to meet the so-called liquidity
coverage ratio. The banks will also have an extra four years to
fully comply with the measure that stipulates the amount of
highly liquid assets they must keep to meet short-term
obligations.  A  gauge of lenders  rose to the highest level since May
2011. Lloyds advanced 1.3 percent to 50.50 pence.  Barclays climbed 3.8 percent to 287.2 pence as Espirito
Santo Santo SA said the British lender’s pretax profit may be
boosted by about 4 percent after the agreement in Basel.  Cameron’s Policy  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the U.K.  government will
outline plans to overhaul public spending before the annual
budget in March. He was speaking at a press conference in London
along with Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg .  The leaders will focus on transport investment, childcare
and a revised pension scheme for the elderly, according to a
joint foreword to the “Mid-Term Review” released by the
premier’s office.  U.K. businesses are more optimistic on the economic outlook
this year, according to separate surveys of finance directors
and manufacturing executives published today.  Rolls-Royce  Rolls-Royce declined 1.5 percent to 904.5 pence after the
Sunday Times reported the maker of  aircraft engines  is facing
allegations that it bribed an executive at Air  China  Ltd. and
China Eastern Airlines Corp. to secure orders worth $2 billion.  The London-based company said Dec. 6 it had “identified
matters of concern” relating to actions of intermediaries in
China, Indonesia, and other markets during a review prompted by
the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office. Rolls-Royce declined to comment
on the Sunday Times story.  Fresnillo, the world’s biggest primary producer of silver,
slid 1.9 percent to 1,775 pence as the precious metal’s price
dropped 0.4 percent. The company’s shares have tumbled 6.6
percent since Jan. 2, the biggest three-day decline since June.  A gauge of miners fell 0.6 percent. Rio Tinto Group, the
second-biggest mining company, lost 1.1 percent to 3,574.5 pence
and Antofagasta Plc slipped 1.6 percent to 1,322 pence.  RusPetro Plc plunged 19 percent to 68 pence, the biggest
drop and the lowest price since the Russian oil explorer sold
shares to the public last January, after saying late Jan. 4 that
production growth has been slower than expected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  