-- U.K. Companies More Optimistic on Economy in 2013, Surveys Show
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/u-k-companies-more-optimistic-on-economy-in-2013-surveys-show.html
U.K. businesses are more optimistic
on the  economic outlook  this year as tensions related to the
euro-region debt crisis ease, according to separate surveys of
finance directors and manufacturing executives published today.  Chief financial officers at some of Britain’s biggest
companies see a 40 percent chance of the economy falling back
into recession, down from about 43 percent in the third quarter,
according to a survey by Deloitte LLP published in London today.
A report from the Engineering Employers Federation showed that
the proportion of factory executives expecting an improvement in
the economy in 2013 has increased.  Britain’s economy is likely to return to growth this year,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists last month.
Still,  services  unexpectedly shrank for the first time in two
years in December and a construction index fell to a six-month
low, clouding the economic outlook.  “Confidence has returned, but perceptions of economic and
financial uncertainty remain high and the greatest worries for
CFOs are still the weakness of the euro-area and U.K.
economies,” said  Ian Stewart , chief U.K. economist at Deloitte.  The proportion of CFOs expecting one or more countries to
exit the euro area this year dropped to 22 percent from 27
percent, Deloitte said. That’s the lowest since it started
asking the question a year ago.  In the EEF survey, 30 percent of 171 manufacturing
executives expect an improvement in the economy compared with
2012, compared with 23 percent forecasting deterioration. On the
manufacturing outlook, respondents were split equally. A year
earlier, pessimists outnumbered optimists on both measures, the
lobby group said.  Export Demand  Manufacturers expect the improvement this year will be
driven by exports, with half of companies predicting growth in
overseas sales. Demand from  emerging markets  “features
strongly,” the EEF said. The biggest risks to growth included a
slowdown in the world economy, exchange-rate volatility and
rising input costs, survey respondents said.  The EEF carried out its survey in November. Deloitte
carried out its study, which included finance directors at 36
members of the FTSE 100 Index, between Nov. 25 and Dec. 11.  In a separate report today, Lloyds Bank said an index of
 job security  dropped 4 points in December to minus 22, the
lowest reading since February. A measure of consumers’ inflation
expectations rose to the highest since February 2011, the unit
of Lloyds Banking Group Plc said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  