-- U.K. Home Prices Rise as Halifax Sees Stagnating Market
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-07T11:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/u-k-home-prices-advanced-for-second-month-in-december.html
U.K.  house prices  rose for a second
month in December and will probably remain little changed in
2013 as the uncertain economic outlook constrains property
demand, according to Halifax.  Values advanced 1.3 percent from the previous month to an
average 163,845 pounds ($262,900), the mortgage unit of Lloyds
Banking Group Plc said in a statement in  London  today. The
monthly price gain in November was revised to 1.6 percent from a
previous estimate of 1 percent. From a year earlier, values rose
2.6 percent in December.  While the British  economy  emerged from a recession in the
third quarter and the  Bank of England  is trying to boost the
availability of credit, uncertainty about the recovery is
curtailing property demand.  Nationwide Building Society  said
last week that  house prices  may decline “modestly” in 2013.  “During 2012, house prices were broadly flat and we expect
this subdued trend to continue,” said Blerina Uruci, an
economist at Barclays Plc in London. “However, we forecast a
gradual recovery to emerge toward the second half supported by
improving economic conditions, loose monetary policy and
restricted supply. We also expect the BOE’s Funding for Lending
Scheme to provide some support to prices, albeit modest.”  Prices were 0.6 percent higher in the fourth quarter
compared with the third, and were down 0.3 percent from a year
earlier, according to today’s report.  Funding Plan  The Bank of England said in a Jan. 3 report that lenders
increased the availability of mortgages “significantly” in the
fourth quarter and spreads on home loans declined as its FLS
began to take effect. A separate report showed mortgage
approvals rose to the highest in 10 months in November.  Halifax said today that housing activity has “picked up a
little,” noting that sales in the three months through November
were up 2 percent from the same period a year earlier.  “There was evidence of a firming in the housing market in
the final few months of 2012,” said  Martin Ellis , a Halifax
economist. “We expect continuing broad stability in house
prices nationally in 2013 with prices likely to end the year at
levels close to where they begin.”  Britain’s economy is likely to return to growth this year,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists last month.
Still,  services  unexpectedly shrank for the first time in two
years in December and a construction index fell to a six-month
low, clouding the economic outlook.  The pound weakened for a third day against the dollar,
slipping 0.1 percent to $1.6056 as of 10:11 a.m. London time. It
dropped to $1.6010 on Jan. 4, the lowest since Dec. 7. Sterling
traded at 81.22 pence per euro.  Cameron’s Priorities  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , setting new priorities
for his coalition with the Liberal Democrats, put child care,
the elderly and transport investment at the core of his agenda
in the run-up to elections in 2015. The Conservative Party
leader will hold a joint news conference today with Lib Dem
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  to highlight their shared
agenda as they publish a “Mid-Term Review” summing up
coalition achievements since 2010 and announcing new policies.  Cameron yesterday predicted a difficult year for the
economy that will require maintaining the current mix of low
 interest rates  and  deficit reduction . The BOE will probably keep
the size of its  bond-purchase program  unchanged and keep its  key
interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent, according to two
surveys of economists. The decision will be announced at noon on
Jan. 10.  U.K. Outlook  U.K. businesses are more optimistic on the  economic outlook 
this year as tensions related to the euro-region debt crisis
ease, according to separate surveys of finance directors and
manufacturing executives published today.  Chief financial officers at some of Britain’s biggest
companies see a 40 percent chance of the economy falling back
into recession, down from about 43 percent in the third quarter,
Deloitte LLP said. The proportion of CFOs expecting one or more
countries to exit the euro area this year also declined.  A separate report from the Engineering Employers Federation
showed that the proportion of factory executives expecting an
improvement in the U.K. economy in 2013 has increased.  In the euro area, the  European Central Bank ’s pledge last
year to buy unlimited government bonds of countries signing up
to reform plans has damped expectations of a break-up. The
Sentix research institute said today that investor confidence
increased for a fifth month in January. Its  index  of sentiment
in the economy rose to minus 7 from minus 16.8 in December, the
highest level since July 2011.  Another report showed  producer-price inflation  in the 17-
nation euro region slowed to 2.1 percent in November from 2.6
percent in October.  Elsewhere in  Europe , the Swiss central bank said its
 foreign-currency reserves  dropped in December after pressure on
the franc eased. Holdings declined to 427.2 billion francs ($460
billion) from a revised 427.4 billion francs in November, the
Zurich-based  Swiss National Bank   said .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  