-- Banks’ $8.5 Billion Deal Kills Review That Never Saw Results
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-08T19:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/u-s-banks-to-pay-8-5-billion-to-settle-foreclosure-missteps.html
A foreclosure-review system that
failed to compensate mistreated borrowers has been mostly
scrapped in an $8.5 billion agreement with the largest U.S.
mortgage servicers.  U.S. regulators’ deal yesterday with 10 mortgage servicers
replaces a case-by-case assessment of flawed foreclosures that
lasted almost two years. The Independent Foreclosure Review
process -- agreed to by 14 servicers in a 2011 settlement -- has
so far cost the servicers more than $1.5 billion in fees to
consultants handling the cases.  Lenders including  JPMorgan Chase & Co., (JPM)   Bank of America
Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  must now provide $5.2 billion in
mortgage assistance and $3.3 billion in direct payments to
wronged borrowers, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
and the  Federal Reserve  said in a statement. This largest cash
payout to those harmed by bad foreclosures during the subprime
mortgage crisis is also meant to help people with current home-
loan struggles.  “The IFR process was poorly designed and executed,” said
Representative Maxine Waters of  California , the senior Democrat
on the House Financial Services Committee, in a statement. She
said she was concerned about “the independence of the
consultants selected to review homeowner files for potential
harm, the complexity of the materials sent to borrowers, and a
lack of outreach by servicers to impacted households.”  Total Damage  Costs from faulty home loans and foreclosures since 2007
total more than $88 billion for the biggest U.S. home lenders,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of America, which
ranked No. 1 in mortgages before the 2008 credit crisis, has
borne the biggest burden with at least $45 billion of expenses.  When the regulators ordered the review process for 2009 and
2010 foreclosures, they “pledged to fix what was broken,
identify who was harmed, and compensate them for that injury,”
said Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry , adding that this
“significant change in direction” will meet the original
objective faster.  “It has become clear that carrying the process through to
its conclusion would divert money away from the impacted
homeowners and also needlessly delay the dispensation of
compensation to affected borrowers,” Curry said.  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, will pay $700
million for the cash portion of the deal in addition to other
settlement costs, according to a person briefed on the matter
who declined to be identified because a bank-by-bank breakdown
hasn’t been announced.  JPMorgan Responds  Executives of New York-based JPMorgan “are pleased to have
it now behind us,” said  Amy Bonitatibus , a spokeswoman for the
bank. “We have helped nearly one million homeowners avoid
foreclosure over the last four years and will continue to help
others who may be struggling.”  Bank of America also agreed yesterday to pay $11.7 billion
to resolve mortgage disputes with U.S.-owned  Fannie Mae. (FNMA)  The
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank said it was profitable in
the fourth quarter after accounting for that cost and an
additional $2.5 billion for expenses including litigation and a
regulatory settlement.  “We support the new approach because it expands the number
of borrowers who will receive payment, speeds the delivery of
those payments, and will provide support for homeowners still
struggling to make payments,”  Dan Frahm , a Bank of America
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Citigroup’s Portion  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets, will show
a $305 million pretax charge for the cash payment when it
reports fourth-quarter results on Jan. 17, the company said in a
statement. The New York-based lender’s $500 million share of the
mortgage assistance will be absorbed by existing loan-loss
reserves, according to the statement.  The settlement with the Fed and OCC also covers Aurora Bank
FSB,  MetLife Inc. (MET) ,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , Sovereign
Bank,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , U.S. Bancorp and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
the biggest U.S. home lender, which said in a statement that it
will pay $766 million in cash and $1.2 billion in mortgage help.
Four banks continue under the original settlement, including
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HBC) , which “remains in discussions,” said  Neil
Brazil , a spokesman.  The third-party consultants, including Promontory Financial
Group LLC, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Ernst & Young LLP,
will lose their jobs reviewing the files for the 10 servicers.
Promontory, the Washington-based firm that reviewed files for
Bank of America, Wells Fargo and PNC, said in a statement that
it “is ceasing essentially all review work immediately. We
will, of course, cooperate with regulators and servicers to
ensure a smooth transition to the new remediation approach.”  ‘Serious Concerns’  The agreement drew criticism from Representative  Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , the top Democrat of the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee.  “I have serious concerns that this settlement may allow
banks to skirt what they owe and sweep past abuses under the rug
without determining the full harm borrowers have suffered,”
Cummings said in a statement.  The accord is meant to speed up payments to borrowers who
otherwise would have continued to wait under the case-by-case
review. Eligible borrowers are expected to get payments of as
much as $125,000, depending on how badly their foreclosure was
handled, the regulators said, similar to compensation levels the
agencies outlined last year.  A payment agent will act as go-between for the loan
servicers and borrowers eligible for the $3.3 billion in direct
compensation under the accord. Those borrowers should expect to
be contacted by the end of March, according to the regulators.  ‘Vilifies’ Banks  The remaining $5.2 billion will go toward modifying loans
and forgiveness of deficiency judgments, according to the
settlement. The regulators said they will keep trying to secure
settlements with mortgage servicers outside of yesterday’s deal.  “It’s important to look beyond the dollars in these
settlements to see how much harm they do to the nation’s largest
banks,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Washington-
based Federal Financial Analytics Inc.  “Billion by billion in enforcement action after action,
the industry is seen as sloppy at best and unscrupulous at
worst,” Petrou said in an e-mail. “The array of new rules set
for 2013 redefining not just mortgage finance, but also banking
more generally, will not go easy on big banks because public
opinion increasingly vilifies the industry.”  Self-Policing  In the previous foreclosure reviews, about 6.5 percent of
borrowers were harmed to a degree that deserved compensation,
according to  Bryan Hubbard , an OCC spokesman. The servicers are
now responsible for checking out their own missteps and ranking
borrowers by how egregiously they may have been wronged, with
regulators looking over their shoulders and testing their
methods, Hubbard said.  The new settlement’s payouts will be dispersed among more
than 3.8 million who went through foreclosures in 2009 or 2010,
for an average of less than $900 per borrower.  “If the reviews had been done right the first time, banks
would have been on the hook to pay far more to homeowners, even
though the planned scheme for recompense fell far short of full
compensation,” said Alys Cohen, staff attorney for the National
Consumer Law Center, in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  