-- U.S. Debt May Rise as D.C. Dysfunction Draws Downgrade, UBS Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2013-01-07T17:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/u-s-debt-may-rise-as-d-c-dysfunction-draws-downgrade-ubs-says.html
Treasury yields, now at almost eight-
month highs, are set to reverse course as political wrangling in
 Washington  and a “likely” U.S. credit downgrade drive
investors to the safety of government debt, according to UBS AG.  “Treasuries are likely to rally over the next month or
two,” Mike Schumacher, head of global-rates strategy at UBS,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview on “Market Makers”
with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “The market doesn’t
know how the political risk plays out.”  A downgrade from Moody’s Investors Service could come as
early as March, Schumacher said, as political posturing in
Washington continues after the U.S. reached its debt ceiling
Dec. 31. Without an extension of the spending limit, the
Treasury will exhaust measures to finance the government as
early as mid-February, according to the Congressional Budget
Office.  A Jan. 1 deal that averted more than $600 billion in
federal tax increases and spending cuts didn’t provide
“meaningful improvement” in the U.S. debt burden, leaving the
nation’s Aaa rank at risk, Moody’s said on Jan. 2. The U.S.
budget package passed by Congress won’t reduce deficits enough
to avoid a sovereign-rating downgrade, said Moody’s.  The U.S. is moving to cut some $1.2 trillion of spending
over the next decade. As part of last week’s deal, Congress
delayed by about two months the $109 billion of reductions that
were to begin this month.  Negative Outlook  The ratings company assigns the U.S. its top Aaa ranking
with a negative outlook on the grade, as does Fitch Ratings.  Standard & Poor’s cut the U.S. rating one step to AA+ on
Aug. 5, 2011, with a negative outlook.  The benchmark  10-year yield  declined one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.89 percent as of 12:15 p.m. New York
time, based on Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield rose to
1.97 percent on Jan. 4, the most since April 26. The 1.625
percent note maturing in November 2022 rose 2/32, or 63 cents
per $1,000 face amount, to 97 19/32. The  30-year bond  yield fell
one basis point to 3.09 percent.  If a downgrade comes, “very few investors would make any
meaningful shift out of the U.S.,” Schumacher said. UBS is one
of 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the Federal
Reserve.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  