-- UBS Plans 10,000 Job Cuts, Raises Profitability Goal
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-01-07T17:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/ubs-plans-10-000-job-cuts-raises-profitability-goal.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
may have to cut another 2,000 to 3,000 jobs as it scales back
from capital-intensive businesses, according to a research note
by Deutsche Bank AG.  The Swiss bank may have to trim as many as 3,000 jobs by
the end of 2013,  Matt Spick , a Deutsche Bank analyst, wrote in a
note to clients today. A small fixed-income and debt capital
markets business isn’t practical to maintain with minimal
capital behind it, he said.  “We think that most likely UBS will have to restructure
again,” Spick wrote. The Zurich-based bank will probably be
“back to a pure private client service business plus cash
equities plus perhaps some M&A advisory to be a close equivalent
to a business like Lazard.”  A spokesman for UBS in London declined to comment.  UBS said in October it will cut about 10,000 jobs and
retreat from capital-intensive trading businesses at the
investment bank to boost profitability. Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Ermotti  is overhauling UBS as stricter  capital
requirements  and sluggish client activity hurt profit at the
investment bank. UBS will focus more on its wealth-management
business, the world’s second largest, to boost returns for
shareholders.  The firm’s investment bank has suffered lapses that shook
UBS. Losses during the subprime crisis forced UBS to seek a
bailout from the Swiss government in 2008 to help it spin off
toxic assets. In 2011, a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized
trading led to the exit of  Oswald Gruebel  as CEO.  UBS also said last month it must pay about 1.4 billion
Swiss francs ($1.5 billion) to U.S., U.K. and Swiss regulators
for trying to rig global  interest rates , triple the penalties
levied against London-based Barclays Plc.  UBS  shares , which have risen about 8 percent since its
strategy overhaul was announced on Oct. 30, closed at 15 francs
in Zurich today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  