-- Turkey Stocks Rally Not Over on Lower Valuations, BofA Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-01-07T17:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/turkey-stocks-rally-isn-t-over-amid-strong-valuations-bofa-says.html
Turkish shares, the world’s top
performers in 2012, will keep rallying this year as investors
are attracted by the nation’s new investment-grade rating and
relatively low valuation, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.  Turkiye Garanti (GARAN)  Bankasi A.S.,  Turkey ’s largest lender by
market value, and  Emlak Konut Gayrimenkul (EKGYO)  Yatirim Ortakligi AS,
the country’s biggest real estate developer, are among BofA’s
top Turkish picks for 2013, analysts including Ali Yavuz Birdal
said in an e-mailed note today.  The nation’s ISE National 100 Index trades at 10.9 times
next year’s earnings, compared with a price-to-earnings ratio of
12.1 for Poland’s WIG20 Index, 11.5 for  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index
and 11 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Fitch Ratings Ltd.
cited the sound banking system and lower government debt as
reasons behind its November decision to raise Turkey to
investment grade.  “This equity story is not over as Turkey is not expensive
and it has lagged all other major EM markets in the 18 months
before respective moves to investment grade,” the analysts
said.  Turkey’s economic growth will accelerate to 4 percent this
year from 3 percent in 2012 on a pick up in domestic demand,
BofA said, matching the median growth forecast of 22 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more than three times average
growth for developed nations, the data show.  “Turkish growth is a key driver of the story in a still
growth-starved world,” according to the note.  The upgrade helped Turkish stocks and bonds post the
biggest rally among  emerging markets  last year. The ISE 100
Index soared 53 percent in 2012, the most among 93 global
indexes tracked by Bloomberg. That compares with an advance of
15 percent by the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Shares in the
country had dropped 22 percent in 2011, underperforming the 20
percent retreat in the emerging markets gauge.  Banks, Property  The ISE 100 Index rose 0.8 percent to 80,224.41, the
highest since at least 1988, when Bloomberg started tracking the
shares, at the close in Istanbul.  BofA recommends investors buy Turkish banks and companies
that would benefit from economic growth and interest rates. Real
estate shares may also “break out once we get tax clarity,”
the analysts said. The government raised value-added taxes on
new homes on Jan. 2, sending the  index tracking  real estate
investment trusts down 2 percent this month.  Financial companies are likely to post 22 percent expansion
in earnings per share this year, compared with 6 percent for
peers in global emerging markets, BofA said. Garanti, whose
shares rallied 57 percent in 2012, is set to deliver the
strongest margin expansion this year as it has the greatest
focus on retail, it said. The bank’s 2013 profit may grow 10
percent, according to the average estimate of 25 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Among BofA’s other top picks are  Bizim Toptan Satis
Magazalari AS (BIZIM) ,  Trakya Cam Sanayii AS, (TRKCM)   Ford Otomotiv Sanayi AS (FROTO) ,
 Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  and  Turkish Airlines. (THYAO)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  