-- Turkish Investors Need to Watch What They Say
-- B y   A t i l l a   Y e s i l a d a
-- 2013-01-07T23:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/turkish-investors-need-to-watch-what-they-say.html
In the dying days of 2012,  Turkey ’s
parliament passed a new law to regulate  capital markets , and in
most respects it is a vast improvement on what existed.  One article, however, is so vague and so broad that it may
presage a huge step backward toward the censorship of
journalists and analysts who write about the Turkish economy.  The new Capital Markets Act will help Turkey’s equity and
fixed-income markets approach the levels of transparency and
regulatory efficiency that exist in developed economies. This
will put Turkey miles ahead of most emerging-market rivals. So
you would think the talk among Istanbul’s finance community
would now be on how to implement the law and whether it can be
leveraged to support the government’s ambitions to turn Istanbul
into a regional financial hub. Not so.  Instead, questions are being asked about what the dismissal
of the entire  Capital Markets Board , in a last-minute government
amendment to the draft bill, may say about the board’s future
independence, and whether Article 107 of the new law has created
a blunt tool with which to censor critical economic and
financial commentary.  Imagine for a second that this new legislation were indeed
to be used as a gag law. The global investment banks that the
government wants to move their regional headquarters to Istanbul
would have to consider that any analyses critical of government
or central-bank policies could lead to the prosecution of both
the author and the institution.  Self-Censorship  Any abuse of this kind would do severe damage to the
integrity of Turkey’s economic-research community, a high-value
financial service, driving investors to rely on reports written
abroad. Analysts and investors would self-censor for fear of
potential prosecution.  This is how the law has already started to work: Last week,
 Mark Mobius , the  fund manager  and frequent commentator on
Turkey, where his Templeton emerging-markets fund has about $1
billion invested, told Haberturk newspaper in an e-mailed
response: “I can’t make any comment regarding the Turkish market
in view of Turkish regulations.” Several banks, including
Societe Generale SA and Commerzbank AG, said they were reviewing
the law.  I called the Capital Markets Board, where a spokesman told
me they were drawing up detailed regulations to accompany the
law and that it would not be used to limit commentary or
analysis, only to punish for-profit market abuse. In a statement
this week, the board said the new law “provides the possibility
of more room to maneuver for well-intentioned market
commentators whose purpose is not in doubt.” I hope that’s how
it turns out, but I’d be a lot more reassured if the language of
the law was tightened and the one-size-fits-all penalties
revised.  Regrettably, when it comes to freedom of expression,
Turkey’s government and courts have a record of using
ambiguities in the law to crush opponents and to silence
inconvenient truths. I am concerned that the government has just
broadened its efforts to stifle political and social dissent to
the economy.  Here, in full, is what Article 107 says: “Those who provide
untruthful, wrong or misleading information, start rumors, or
provide news, analysis, commentary, or prepare reports with the
intention of influencing investor decisions or the price or
value of capital-markets instruments, and those who publish
them, shall be punished with between two and five years in
prison or with a judicial fine equivalent to 5,000 days.  “If the person who commits the crime mentioned in the first
clause shows remorse and pays double the amount of benefit
he/she obtained or helped obtain, which cannot be less than
500,000 Turkish liras to the Treasury:  a) before the investigation starts, there will be no
punishment.  b) during the investigation, the punishment will be reduced
by half.  c) during the prosecution, before a verdict has been
passed, the punishment shall be reduced by one-third.”  Important Details  In one sense, the idea expressed here is uncontroversial.
Spreading lies and rumors about financial instruments or
institutions is universally considered an unethical market
practice, punishable around the globe when it rises to  insider
trading  or fraud.  Yet two details distinguish the new Turkish law. First, it
is not clear from the text that in order to start an
investigation, the Capital Markets Board must have evidence that
a writer had a position in the markets to manipulate, or that he
or she intended to profit by misleading investors. The fact that
the offending publication intended to influence the market and
succeeded, and that some people (as is inevitable) win or lose
as a result, would appear to be sufficient to start a
prosecution.  The penalties are also severe, especially given that there
is no court arbitration involved. A simple majority of the
seven-member Capital Markets Board will be sufficient to impose
the 500,000 lira ($280,000) fine. Should the defendant have the
temerity to insist on his innocence and appeal to an actual
court, then he risks, in addition, five years in prison.  In another country, you might wait before declaring that
this looks like a gag law. The ambiguity of Article 107 could be
an honest mistake of poor drafting, or of overzealous
legislators attempting to defend market participants from
manipulation. Yet this is Turkey, which last year had  more
journalists  in jail than any other country, including less-than-
liberal  China , with its 1.3 billion population. The ruling
 Justice and Development Party  has had the opportunity to change
the country’s laws to protect freedom of expression since coming
to power more than a decade ago, but by and large it has not
done so. Meanwhile, the number of cases opened against
journalists has multiplied into the thousands, and thousands of
Internet sites have been shut down.  Instructive Experience  The government has made several amendments to the statute
that underpins Turkey’s broadcast media, resulting in a similar
setup to the one just drafted for capital markets. The
experience there is instructive. The  2011 Turkish Broadcasting
Law  allows the regulator to levy fines on any show that it deems
to be in breach of a broad range of criteria, such as the
laughably nebulous “insulting national character, family values
or the sensibilities of the society.” If a channel repeats the
offense, the regulator can suspend the program, take the channel
off the air for a period, and eventually withdraw the
broadcaster’s license. This has had a chilling effect on the
choices that broadcasters make.  Just to give one recent example: In November, the  regulator
fined  CNBC’s Turkish affiliate, CNBC-e, 53,000 liras for airing
an episode of “The Simpsons” that poked fun at God. Other
fines -- 94 were issued in the first three months of last year,
according to the media monitoring group  Bianet  -- have been much
larger.  Let’s hope the new people whom the government appoints to
run the Capital Markets Board are well-intentioned. Even so, it
is very likely that the pro-government press will begin to
agitate for the punishments. The daily newspaper Sabah last year
ran an extended campaign against an alleged “High Interest
Lobby,” in which the paper targeted analysts and reporters --
including from  Bloomberg News  -- who dared to question the
wisdom of the central bank’s unconventional monetary-policy
choices. According to Sabah, a cabal of journalists and analysts
-- foreign and domestic -- was trying to make the central bank
raise interest rates in order to increase profits.  Perhaps we in Turkey have all become paranoid. I have just
offered myself up as a guinea pig. If I am prosecuted for
publishing this article, then you may safely conclude that the
true intent of the new capital-markets law is to gag critics. By
then, of course, it will be too late for this analyst.  (Atilla Yesilada is a country adviser for Turkey at
GlobalSource Partners Inc. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Atilla Yesilada at  yesila@superonline.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 