-- Vatican ATMs Down, Circuit Breakers, JPMorgan: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-07T12:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/vatican-atms-down-circuit-breaker-delay-jpmorgan-compliance.html
A suspension of electronic payments
in  Vatican City  is threatening finances in the world’s smallest
state as pilgrims and tourists are forced to use cash in museums
and shops with yearly sales of more than $100 million.  Credit and debit card payments and cash withdrawals stayed
suspended Jan. 4 in the papal state for a fourth day after the
Bank of Italy refused a request to keep providing the services
by the operator, Deutsche Bank AG’s Italian unit. The central
bank acted because the Vatican doesn’t comply with international
 money-laundering  rules, a Bank of Italy official said.  The interruption to electronic payment services will be
“brief,” the Vatican said in a statement Jan. 3. The papal
state, home to  Pope Benedict XVI , is in central Rome near the
Tiber river.  Cash withdrawals from machines operated by the Vatican bank
IOR aren’t affected, a Vatican spokesman, who declined to be
named, said. Tourists will be able to buy tickets for the
Vatican museums online until Jan. 15, he said.  The Rome-based central bank found in a 2010 inspection that
the Deutsche Bank unit, which started operating the papal
state’s point-of-service payment services in 1997, didn’t have
the authorization to operate in the Vatican City, a Bank of
Italy official said.  The central bank on Dec. 6 refused a permit request to
Deutsche Bank SpA because the state lacks required banking and
financial legislation, the official said. A Deutsche Bank
spokeswoman for Italy declined to comment.  Vatican authorities are trying to find another bank
provider, the Vatican press office said last week. A new
operator may be announced today, the Financial Times reported
Jan. 4, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter.  For more, click here.  For a Bloomberg Television Report, click here.  Compliance Policy  Curbs to Prevent Stock Volatility May Be Delayed, Bats Says  New curbs to limit rapid price moves in individual stocks
and changes to rules designed to prevent market-wide routs may
be delayed two months until April, according to exchange
operator Bats Global Markets Inc.  The shift from circuit breakers that make trading pause if
a stock rises or falls 10 percent in five minutes to curbs that
limit moves without automatically triggering a halt will take
effect April 8 instead of Feb. 4, subject to regulatory
approval, the Lenexa, Kansas-based company said in a  notice  on
its website.  Changes to an  existing program  that stops all equity-based
trading across stocks, options and futures will also be delayed,
Bats said in the statement.  Both measures are meant to protect investors from extreme
price moves. The gauge that will trigger the marketwide circuit
breakers is switching from the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  to
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, while the price drop for
trading to stop is being narrowed and the length of pauses
shortened in most cases. The so-called limit-up/limit-down plan,
which prevents individual stocks from moving outside a rolling
price band, will replace the automatic halts implemented after
the flash crash on May 6, 2010, when the 30-stock Dow average
briefly fell 9.2 percent.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission must approve
the request to delay implementation of the limit-up/limit-down
plan by the 13 stock exchanges and Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, which oversees more than 4,300 brokers, for it to go
into effect. A separate delay request would have to be submitted
by securities exchanges and Finra for the market-wide circuit
breakers, introduced after the October 1987 market crash.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment.
Also declining to comment were Keara Everdell, a spokeswoman for
NYSE Euronext, Robert Madden of  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Jim
Gorman at Direct Edge Holdings LLC. Dow Jones reported the
planned delay earlier.  For more, click here.  Vietnam Plans to Have Exchange-Traded Funds in Fourth Quarter  Vietnam plans to allow exchange-traded funds beginning
around the fourth quarter of this year, Vu Bang, chairman of
 State Securities Commission , said in a phone interview.  The preparation to set up the funds will take nearly a
year, Bang said.  The regulator also proposes introducing covered warrants
this year. The SSC outlined six measures to attract foreign
investment and improve stock market liquidity, for proposal to
the  finance ministry , Bang said. He declined to elaborate,
saying the information is currently confidential.  Rule Could Make Hedge Funds Fraud Informers, Reuters Says  The  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network , or FinCEN, a part
of the Treasury, is working on rule that would require U.S.
hedge funds to file reports telling authorities of any
suspicious trading by employees and outside parties, Reuters
reported, citing the agency.  The rule would require the hedge fund industry to monitor
itself in way similar to banks, mutual funds, and brokerages.
The proposal would cover white collar crime including money
laundering and  insider trading .  The rule may be filed for public comment in the first half
of year, a FinCEN spokesman, Steve Hudak, said, according to
Reuters.  The rule is expected to meet with opposition from the hedge
fund industry over concerns with costs and invasiveness, Reuters
reported. A spokesman for the  Managed Funds Association , the
biggest hedge fund trade organization, didn’t respond to a
request for comment, Reuters said.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan Faces Sanction for Refusing to Provide Madoff Documents  The U.S. Treasury Department’s inspector general threatened
to punish  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for failing to turn over
documents to regulators investigating the bank’s ties to the
Ponzi scheme of convicted con man Bernard L. Madoff.  Inspector General Eric Thorson gave the largest  U.S. bank  a
Jan. 11 deadline to cooperate with the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency probe or risk sanctions for impeding the
agency’s oversight. JPMorgan, according to the Dec. 21 letter,
says the information is protected by attorney-client privilege.  Thorson’s letter didn’t spell out what documents the OCC is
seeking or the focus of its investigation.  The previously undisclosed OCC probe adds to the lender’s
troubles in Washington, where several agencies and lawmakers are
investigating the bank’s loss of at least $6.2 billion on
botched derivatives trades. The losses have prompted regulators
including the  Federal Reserve  to consider tightening proposed
restrictions on proprietary trading.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said the bank
“will of course continue to work together with our regulators”
on the investigation.  “This dispute does not go to the merits of the matter but
it does raise an important issue of principle: Whether we and
other banks, large and small alike, have the fundamental right
long recognized in this country to communicate freely with and
seek confidential guidance from their lawyers,” Zuccarelli said
in an interview.  Bryan Hubbard , an OCC spokesman, declined to comment on the
agency’s Madoff inquiry.  In the letter to JPMorgan general counsel  Stephen Cutler ,
the inspector general -- the Treasury’s internal watchdog --
dismissed JPMorgan’s arguments on attorney-client privilege,
saying the OCC “could not do its work” if banks were allowed
to withhold information on that basis. The OCC asked the IG
office to review the situation, Thorson said in the letter.  Congress Probes SEC Spending on Booz Allen, Reuters Says  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has until Jan.
17 to turn over documents showing payments to consulting firm
 Booz Allen  Hamilton, Reuters reported, citing a Jan. 3 letter.  The letter, sent to SEC Chairman Elisse Walter by House
Oversight Chairman  Darrell Issa , a Republican from California,
comes as part of a probe of agency spending on Booz Allen,
Reuters reported.  The SEC spent more than $8.5 million on consultants to
advise on reforming workflow and back-office operations, Reuters
reported last year.  Booz Allen didn’t respond to a request for comment on the
letter, Reuters said.  Courts  Weavering Founder Appears in Court Over Hedge Fund’s Collapse  Weavering Capital (UK) Ltd. founding director Magnus
Peterson appeared in a London court today facing six charges of
fraud, forgery, fraudulent trading and false accounting over the
collapse of the hedge fund in 2009.  Judge Michael Snow ordered Peterson, 49, to appear at a
higher criminal court in 12 weeks and surrender his passport.
The defunct fund had about $640 million under management in late
2008 before discovering the counterparty for its biggest trading
position was controlled by the fund’s manager.  Prosecutors at the Serious Fraud Office dropped their
initial criminal probe into Peterson over concerns it wouldn’t
win a conviction. The SFO reopened the case in July.  The hedge fund’s administrators won a lawsuit to recover
$450 million from Peterson and other former employees in May.  Interviews  Anchin’s Rosenthal Discusses Hedge Fund Regulation  Jeffrey Rosenthal, a partner at  Anchin, Block & Anchin LLP ,
discussed an increase in the regulation of hedge funds.
Rosenthal talked with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox and Vonnie Quinn on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings/Agency Personnel  Geithner Said to Plan to Depart Before Debt-Ceiling Debate Ends  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has indicated to
White House officials he wants to carry through with his plan to
leave the administration by the end of this month even if debt-
limit negotiations aren’t concluded, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  Geithner contemplated leaving the position June 2011 while
the debt ceiling was being debated, and President  Barack Obama 
persuaded him to stay.  His departure now would increase pressure on the president
to name his successor at Treasury. White House Chief of Staff
Jack Lew remains the leading contender, according to the people,
who requested anonymity to discuss the private talks.  Geithner, 51, is the only remaining member of Obama’s
original economic team and was a key figure in the taxpayer-
funded bailouts during the 2008 financial crisis. He’s also had
a principal role in negotiations with Congress on the budget
deal and in past deliberations over the debt ceiling.  Because Lew has spent most of his career in government,
Obama may seek to name a Wall Street executive as deputy
Treasury secretary, the people said.  Mailbox Bombing Probed at U.S. Treasury Inspector General’s Home  U.S. authorities are investigating the bombing last week of
a mailbox at the home of the Treasury Department’s inspector
general.  Fairfax County, Virginia, police officers were called to
Inspector General Eric Thorson’s home in suburban Washington on
Dec. 31 after he discovered his mailbox destroyed from what
appeared to be a pipe bomb.  The matter is under investigation by the Fairfax County
police and the  Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives , according to Rich Delmar, counsel to the inspector
general. Investigators are trying to determine if the bombing is
connected to the official’s work, said a person familiar with
the matter who asked to remain anonymous because the probe was
in its early stages.  Thorson’s office conducts independent audits of the
department and investigates cases of waste, fraud and abuse of
government resources. It handles some financially related
criminal cases, such as thefts of checks issued by the Treasury.  Hambrecht Won’t Join BASF Supervisory Board This Year, FAS Says  Former  BASF (BAS)  Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Hambrecht  won’t
seek election before 2014 to the company’s supervisory board,
Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung reported, citing an
interview.  Corporate law rules would allow him to join the board in
2013 after a mandatory two-year waiting period since departing
from a management post, the FAS reported.  Hambrecht said he will wait until the term of the current
supervisory board expires next year, according to FAS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 