-- Wages a Balm for U.S. Workers Facing Payroll-Tax Shock
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-01-07T21:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/wages-a-balm-for-u-s-workers-facing-payroll-tax-shock.html
An improving job market is boosting
wages and providing needed relief just as every American worker
gets hit with a tax increase.  Hourly earnings climbed 0.3 percent on average in December
for a second month, the biggest back-to-back increase since the
economic recovery began in mid-2009, Labor Department figures
showed Jan. 4. Combined with a lengthening of the  workweek , that
brought the average weekly paycheck to $818.69, up 1.2 percent
from October and the steepest two-month gain since February-
March 2007, before the recession began.  The boost comes just as the fiscal pact passed by Congress
last week lets the  payroll tax  used to pay for Social Security
benefits rise to 2010 levels, reducing paychecks by $41.67 from
someone earning $50,000 who is paid twice a month. The higher
salaries, together with the lowest  gasoline prices  in almost a
year, will provide a lift to household spending, which accounts
for about 70 percent of the world’s largest economy.  “Let’s not be too quick to write off the American
consumer,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York . “Paychecks are a
little healthier. The outlook for the consumer is probably a bit
brighter than people think.”  Arnaud Collin is among those recognizing a more attractive
salary will help draw the workers he needs. The chief marketing
officer at  Los Altos , California-based  Catalog Spree , developer
of a mobile shopping application, says “there’s just more
competition” in the Silicon Valley region for people with
skills in commerce and mobile marketing.  “I usually end up
paying at the high end of the range.”  Being Pursued  Collin, 36, has first-hand knowledge of the situation. He
said he is being pursued by head hunters after only eight months
into his own new job. Two of Catalog Spree’s 19 full-time
employees came on board at the end of 2012, he said.  “I think I lost a candidate because I wasn’t paying
enough,” said the former eBay Inc. marketing executive. “She
got an offer much higher than what I was ready to pay.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 4.6 percent last
week to reach the highest level since December 2007 after the
employment report showed the world’s largest economy kept
expanding even as the budget fight intensified. The  S&P 500  fell
0.3 percent to 1,461.89 at the close in New York today as
investors awaited tomorrow’s start of the corporate earnings
season.  Job and  income  gains may be one reason  consumer confidence 
and spending held up the past few months as lawmakers struggled
to avert $600 billion in sweeping tax increases and government
spending cuts that were slated to take effect this year.  Growing Confidence  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to an eight-month
high in the week ended Dec. 30. For the year, the index climbed
12.9 points, the biggest annual improvement since 1998.
Americans earning $100,000 or more reported their most
optimistic reading in more than two years.  Growing optimism may be one reason demand is holding up.
Cars and light trucks sold at a 15.3 million  annual rate  in
December to complete the best annual total since 2007, industry
figures showed last week. Virtually all major automakers added
shifts and jobs throughout 2012 to keep up.  “Workers are enjoying better income growth, which should
further their ability to continue spending,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in
 Detroit . “The economy is really poised to accelerate as long as
 Washington  is able to resolve the remaining issues” related to
the debt limit and government spending cuts.  Fiscal Deal  The bipartisan agreement passed by Congress on Jan. 1 makes
permanent the George W. Bush-era income tax cuts for 99 percent
of Americans while letting them end for top earners. The payroll
tax cut, which was designed as a temporary measure to boost the
economy in 2011 and extended through 2012, also expired. The
levy reverts to 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent last year.  Left unsettled was an agreement on public spending as the
Treasury bumps up against its legal borrowing limit. Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said yesterday further tax
changes are off the table as lawmakers and President  Barack
Obama  gear up for a fight next month over raising the limit.
Republicans want  deficit reduction  through government spending
cuts, while Democrats counter that everything including taxes
has to be part of the negotiations.  At such a time, the improvement in income and job growth
provides some offset, said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist
at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York.  Income Cushion  “Consumption will be soft in the first quarter, but
consumers will not shut down totally,” LaVorgna said. “We’re
seeing decent income gains. That will help cushion some of the
hit.”  Household  purchases  will grow at a 1.7 percent annual rate
in the first three months of year, and then pick up over the
next six months, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg last month. By comparison, it rose at an
average 2.9 percent pace in the five years before the last
recession began.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
is among those predicting the impact of higher payroll tax will
not be huge.  “The payroll tax was unlikely to continue at the
discounted rate, so I don’t think it should be as big of a
surprise as maybe it has been made out to be in the last couple
days,” Bullard told reporters during a conference on Jan. 4.
Workers “are very cognizant of what their paycheck is going to
be,” he said. “People knew this was not going to last forever.
I think they have got contingency plans in place.”  Lengthening Workweek  An increase in hours is another encouraging aspect of last
week’s jobs report, LaVorgna said. The average workweek climbed
by six minutes in each of the past two months to reach 34 hours
and 30 minutes in December, according to the Labor Department’s
data. Every six-minute gain is the equivalent of about a 300,000
advance in payrolls, he said. In addition, lower energy costs,
higher  home prices  and increasing wealth amount to a “higher
 cash flow ” for households, and “that should lift private
demand,” he said.  The rebound in housing is bearing fruit for furniture
makers, some of whom are adding workers to keep up with demand.  “We have a sense of much more positive momentum heading
into next year than we did at this time last year,” Alan Cole,
president of Martinsville, Virginia-based  Hooker Furniture
Corp. (HOFT) , said on a Dec. 5 conference call with analysts. “We’ve
had to significantly ramp up production in response to this
brisk demand.”  Orders for Hooker’s Sam Moore brand line of upholstered
sofas were up about 25 percent in the period ended Oct. 28 from
the same time in 2011, while backlogs were more than 50 percent
higher, he said. As a result, “we’ve expanded our workforce by
about 5 percent to date and anticipate another 5 percent
expansion in the coming months,” Cole said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  