-- Wall Street Outspent Lawyers Funding Romney’s Bid
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-01-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/wall-street-outspent-lawyers-funding-romney-s-bid.html
Wall Street outdid the legal
profession in raising money for  Mitt Romney , making him the
first major-party presidential nominee in at least two decades
who didn’t rely on lawyers as his biggest source of funding.  The BGOV Barometer shows that Romney, who lost his White
House run in November, raised $21 million from employees in the
securities and investment industry and $14 million from lawyers,
lobbyists and others working in law firms, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group that tracks campaign contributions.  President  Barack Obama , like every other major-party
nominee going back to at least  George H.W. Bush  and  Bill Clinton 
in 1992, saw attorneys and others at law firms provide the most
money to his campaign, with $27 million in contributions. The
securities and investment industry was less generous to Obama,
the first time in at least 20 years Wall Street wasn’t among the
top five sources of a presidential candidate’s contributions.  “There are a lot of lawyers in America and a lot of
lawyers with the financial means to make contributions to
campaigns,” said Michael Toner, co-chairman of the election law
practice at Wiley Rein LLP and a former Federal Election
Commission chairman. “Political giving is a part of the
culture. It’s really in the DNA.”  Lawyer-Lobbyists  Many lawyers work at firms that also lobby. While Obama’s
campaign didn’t accept donations from registered lobbyists, it
took in contributions from others who work in the same law
firms. For example, his 12th biggest source of campaign
contributions, $400,390, came from attorneys and others at DLA
Piper not registered to lobby, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics. The firm was paid $7 million through the
first nine months of 2012 by clients such as Aetna Inc., Comcast
Corp. and Raytheon Co.  Lawyers were Romney’s third-biggest source of donations,
behind both  Wall Street  and employees in the real estate
industry. The legal profession had been the No. 1 giver to every
major-party presidential nominee since at least 1992, according
to the Center for Responsive Politics.  A co-founder of the Boston-based private-equity firm Bain
Capital LLC, the former Massachusetts governor took in more
money from Wall Street than any other nominee since the modern
campaign finance system was put in place for the 1976 elections
following the Watergate scandal that led to the resignation of
President  Richard Nixon .  Financial Regulations  Romney’s Wall Street fundraising was fueled both by his
investment background and by anger at Obama, who successfully
championed new financial regulations in response to the worst
economic downturn since the Great Depression, said  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the Center for Responsive
Politics.  “This is partly because of Romney, how attractive he was
to the securities and investment industry because he viewed them
as one of their own, and partially a reflection of what has
happened in finance and how this administration has responded,”
she said.  Even as Obama raised more than $700 million for his re-
election, his 2012 campaign was the only one in 20 years where
securities and investment employees weren’t among a major-party
nominee’s top five sources of contributions. Wall Street
employees gave Obama $6.1 million, ranking 10th, after giving
him $16 million in 2008, when they were his third-largest
source.  While 13 financial firms were among Romney’s top 20 sources
of campaign cash, none appeared on Obama’s list of top industry
donors, after five showed up in 2008.  Goldman Employees  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  employees gave $1 million to Obama
for his 2008 campaign, more than any other company’s. This time,
a similar amount went to Romney, making Goldman his top source
of contributions. Obama took in about $200,000 from employees of
New York-based Goldman.  “A lot of business and a lot of Wall Street felt they
needed government involvement and assistance in time for the ’08
election,” said Bruce Heiman, whose clients at K&L Gates LLP
include Charles Schwab Corp. “You then had an overreaching by
the Obama administration and the Democratic Congress. You had a
response and reaction to that.”  Former U.S. Senator  Byron Dorgan , a North Dakota Democrat,
said Wall Street should have expected the White House to respond
the way it did to the financial crash.  “Watching what some of the largest financial institutions
did, it’s not reasonable to believe that would not result in
additional oversight and some regulatory burdens,” said Dorgan,
a senior policy adviser at Arent Fox LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 