-- Warsaw Bourse Management Change Won’t Delay New Trading System
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-01-07T12:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/warsaw-bourse-management-change-won-t-delay-new-trading-system.html
The  Warsaw Stock Exchange (GPW) ’s planned
management changes won’t delay the introduction of a new trading
system on central  Europe ’s biggest equity market, Leszek Pawlowicz, its supervisory board’s chairman said.  The board of the state-controlled bourse operator suspended
Chief Executive Officer Ludwik Sobolewski on Dec. 21 after its
probe showed Sobolewski breached the code of business ethics
while helping seek financing for a movie production. The
Treasury Ministry, which oversees state companies, is seeking to
dismiss Sobolewski at a  shareholders’ meeting  this month.  The appointment of Adam Maciejewski, a management board
member, as an acting CEO should help ensure the introduction of
the Universal Trading Platform, suitable for high-frequency
trading, on April 15, Pawlowicz said by phone today.  “We are absolutely sure the management change won’t delay
the process,” Pawlowicz said. “The person appointed as acting
CEO has been responsible for the new system implementation.”  The Warsaw bourse bought the UTP system from  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
to replace its 13-year-old Warset platform and make trading more
efficient for its clients. The start of the new system had been
initially planned for late last year.  “The exchange intends to start the new system as planned.
The risks associated with its implementation are no different
from other large-scale IT projects involving numerous partners
and institutions,” Maciejewski said by phone, adding the
exchange is in talks with “several” brokerages planning to
start trading in  Poland  after the new system is introduced.  The Warsaw exchange trades shares of 438 companies with
total market capitalization at 743 billion zloty ($235 billion),
according to its website. Its NewConnect platform for smaller
companies lists further 430 companies, while the Catalyst market
trades bonds issued by 157 entities.  Sobolewski, who led the exchange’s four-member management
since June 2006, denied breaching the code of business conduct,
according to his statement released to the media on Dec. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  