-- Wereldhave to Sell U.S. Portfolio to Lone Star for $720M
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-01-07T11:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/wereldhave-to-sell-u-s-portfolio-to-lone-star-for-720-million.html
Wereldhave NV (WHA) , the Dutch property
company that cut dividend targets amid losses last year, agreed
to sell all of its U.S. real estate to Lone Star Funds for about
$720 million.  Net proceeds from the deal are about 5 percent more than
the book value of the U.S. buildings, Wereldhave, based in The
Hague, said in a statement today. The company will use the money
to reduce its debt.  The U.S. exit comes as Wereldhave takes steps to improve
its performance after a drop in first-half profit was followed
by the resignation of Chief Executive Officer Hans Pars and the
dismissal of the company’s U.K. and U.S. directors. Changes
announced in August included reducing the company’s development
portfolio, halting acquisitions and lowering the company’s loan-
to-value ratio.  Lone Star, a private-equity firm with more than $33 billion
in assets, buys distressed properties to restructure them and
then sell them at a profit. Last month, Lone Star agreed to buy
commercial properties from the German government valued at about
1.1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) including debt.  The transaction announced today is due to close in the
first quarter, Wereldhave said. The deal will trigger the
release of a provision for deferred tax, according to the
statement.  Wereldhave  gained as much as  4.88 percent in Amsterdam
trading, the most since July 20. The stock was up 2.8 percent at
50.30 euros as of 12:04 p.m.  Shopping Centers  The company in February said it planned to focus on
shopping centers in the Netherlands,  Belgium ,  Finland  and the
U.K. as well as offices in Paris and  Madrid . Wereldhave said at
the time that it lacked scale in the U.S., where it held about
800 million euros of assets.  The shares fell the most since 1989 in July after the
company said Pars quit and was replaced by Chief Financial
Officer Dirk Anbeek. Direct result, rental income minus
expenses, dropped 17.5 percent in the first half.  The company lowered the dividend targets for 2012 to 3.20
euros to 3.40 euros per share, giving up
on a goal of keeping shareholders’ payouts unchanged at 4.70
euros. The company targets  earnings per share  of at least 3.8
euros for 2012, according to its third-quarter earnings report
released in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 