-- Whitehaven Coal Targeted by Green Group in Hoax Funding E-mail
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-01-07T03:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/whitehaven-coal-targeted-by-green-group-in-hoax-funding-e-mail.html
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , developing the
A$766 million ($803 million) Maules Creek mine, was targeted by
a hoax e-mail from a green group campaigning against the project
that sent its shares down as much as 8.8 percent.  Frontline Action on Coal , an environmental group that
opposes the mine in  Australia ’s New South Wales state, sent a
fake press release that  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  had terminated a A$1.2 billion loan to Whitehaven on
environmental grounds, Jonathan Moylan, a spokesman for the
group, said by phone. Whitehaven recovered to trade 0.3 percent
lower at A$3.51 at 2:03 p.m. in Sydney after it and ANZ revealed
the e-mail was a hoax.  The company’s shares  plunge d after the Australian Financial
Review and the Australian Associated Press reported the fake 
statement as news. The hoax release, which mirrored the format
of ANZ’s official statements, listed a phone number purportedly 
for Toby Kent, the head of corporate sustainability at ANZ. 
The number, identical to one on the green group’s website, was 
answered by a man who identified himself as Moylan when Bloomberg 
News phoned for comment.  Green groups have stepped up campaigns in courts and by
occupying port facilities in Australia in an effort to reduce
shipments from the world’s largest exporter of coal.  Whitehaven last month completed a A$1.2 billion debt
facility, underwritten by ANZ,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) 
and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  The loan replaced existing
facilities and the company plans to spend the funds on Maules
Creek and general corporate purposes, it said in a statement.  The company in October received approval from the NSW
government for Maules Creek, located in the Gunnedah Basin with
first coal sales planned in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  