-- Why Austerity Works and Stimulus Doesn’t
-- B y   A n d e r s   A s l u n d
-- 2013-01-07T23:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/why-austerity-works-and-fiscal-stimulus-doesn-t.html
After five years of financial crisis,
the European record is in: Northern  Europe  is sound, thanks to
austerity, while southern Europe is hurting because of half-
hearted austerity or, worse, fiscal stimulus. The predominant
Keynesian thinking has been tested, and it has failed
spectacularly.  The starkest contrasts are  Latvia  and Greece, two small
countries hit the worst by the crisis. They have pursued
different policies,  Latvia  strict austerity, and Greece late and
limited austerity. Latvia saw a sharp gross domestic product
 decline  of 24 percent for two years, which was caused by an
almost complete liquidity freeze in 2008. This necessitated the
austerity that followed.  Yet Latvia’s economy grew by 5.5 percent in 2011, and in
2012 it probably expanded by 5.3 percent, the highest growth in
Europe, with a budget deficit of only 1.5 percent of GDP.
Meanwhile,  Greece  will suffer from at least seven meager years,
having endured five years of recession already. So far,  its GDP 
has fallen by 18 percent. In 2008 and 2009, the financial crisis
actually looked far worse in Latvia than Greece, but then they
chose opposite policies. The lessons are clear.  A successful stabilization program must appear financially
sustainable so that it can  restore confidence  among creditors,
businesses and people. Usually, a sound stabilization program
can revive economic growth within two or three years, as
Latvia’s did. A few rules of thumb need to be followed. Latvia
did them all; Greece not at all.  Regain Confidence  To regain confidence fast, reforms should be front-loaded.
In 2009, Latvia carried out an arduous fiscal adjustment of 9.5
percent of GDP, 60 percent of the total needed, while Greece
foolishly tried to stimulate its economy, as  Spain , Slovenia,
Cyprus and other southern crisis countries did at the flawed
advice of the  International Monetary Fund  under  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who was then the managing director.  In a severe crisis, it is much easier to cut public
expenditures than to raise revenue. Moreover, taxpayers think
the government should tighten its belt when they are forced to
do so. Cuts in public spending accounted for two-thirds of the
Latvian fiscal adjustment. It decreased government expenditures
from a high of 44 percent of GDP in the midst of the crisis to a
moderate level of 36 percent of GDP this year.  Latvia  has kept a
flat personal income tax now at 21 percent and a low corporate
profit tax of 15 percent.  Greece, by contrast, maintained  high public expenditures  of
50 percent of gross domestic product in both 2010 and 2011, when
it was supposed to be pursuing austerity. It should cut its
public spending to 40 percent of GDP to become financially
sustainable. Then the Greek crisis would end. Greece has carried
out a fiscal adjustment of 9 percent of GDP to date, but that is
too little and too late. It is less than Latvia did in the first
year, and Greece needs to do more.  An advantage of sudden and sharp cuts in public
expenditures is that they can’t be even, as some items can’t be
cut. Therefore they drive reforms. The Latvian government hit
hard at the stifling bureaucracy that swelled during the
preceding boom. It fired 30 percent of the civil servants,
closed half the state agencies, and reduced the average public
salary by 26 percent in one year.  It prohibited double-dipping by officials, who had earned
more in fees from corporate boards of state-owned companies than
in salaries. The ministers took personal wage cuts of 35
percent, while pensions and social benefits were barely reduced.
The cuts prompted deregulation, and Latvia saw a boom in the
creation of new enterprises in 2011.  ‘Most Corrupt’  By contrast, Greece has allowed clientelism and corruption
to thrive. During the purported austerity, Socialist Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  increased the number of civil
servants by 5,000 from 2010 to 2011, because they were his power
base.  Transparency International  ranks Greece the most corrupt
country in the EU.  A serious financial crisis requires international emergency
funding. Latvia received substantial credits from the IMF, the
European Union and neighboring countries. Altogether, the
committed funds amounted to 37 percent of Latvia’s GDP in 2008,
but Latvia used 60 percent of the credits committed. In late
December  it paid back all its IMF loans  almost three years
earlier than necessary because it can borrow more cheaply on the
market. Its six-year bond yields have plummeted to 1.7 percent,
while the Greek 10-year bond yields are 11 percent.  In May 2010,  Greece  received far more help than Latvia did
-- the largest IMF credit ever -- but its stabilization program
was neither credible nor executed. The Greek public debt has
been excessive, and it remains so after two substantial, yet
insufficient, debt reductions. The government needs to seriously
cut its spending, reduce its bureaucracy and prosecute corrupt
leaders, and the IMF and EU have to become adamant about their
conditions.  Furthermore, a front-loaded austerity program shows people
that the government is up to the task. Latvia experienced
violent riots in January 2009, but in March 2009 Valdis Dombrovskis became prime minister. He stated that there were two
alternatives, one bad and one worse, and he preferred the bad
alternative. He reached agreement on his stabilization program
with the trade unions and employers. Nothing works like success.
Dombrovskis (with whom I co-wrote a book on the Latvian crisis)
was re-elected in 2010 and 2011.  Greece has suffered from  huge demonstrations and riots , and
for good reason. For too long, public employees have maintained
their privileges while others expressed frustration with an
irresponsible government. Since June, it appears the new Greek
government is finally becoming serious.  IMF Warning  Recently, the  IMF warned  that cutting  government spending 
had more negative effects than previously thought. But the fund
focuses on one single year. What really matters is how quickly a
crisis can be resolved and the long-term growth trajectory, as
Latvia shows so elegantly.  Last June, the IMF’s managing director,  Christine Lagarde ,
went to Riga to celebrate Latvia’s success and did so in no
uncertain terms: “We are here today to celebrate your
achievements, but also to make sure that you can build on this
success as you look to the future.”  Now, however, the IMF complains that Latvia has cut social
spending too much. Unemployment remains the main concern, but it
has fallen substantially from 20.7 percent in early 2010 to 13.5
percent in the fall of 2012. Latvia is undergoing a major
structural change, as an oversized construction sector has
collapsed, and new manufacturing companies are expanding. Real
adjustment takes time. Another complaint is the country’s
inequality, but that can only change gradually.  The U.S. situation is quite different. As the world’s
biggest economy issuing the dominant  reserve currency , it
doesn’t feel the pressures from the international credit market
that a small economy does if it has a public debt exceeding GDP,
as the U.S. now has. With Treasury yields at record lows and a
required fiscal adjustment of only 3 percent to 4 percent of
GDP, the U.S. fiscal problem might be perceived as too small to
solve. That is the great danger for the country.  (Anders Aslund is a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics. He is co-author with Valdis
Dombrovskis, the prime minister of Latvia, of “How Latvia Came
through the Financial Crisis.” The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Anders Aslund at  Aaslund@piie.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 