-- Why a Debt-Ceiling Fight Is Good for the Country
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-01-07T23:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/why-a-debt-ceiling-fight-is-good-for-the-country.html
Watch what he did, not what he says.
President  Barack Obama  says he won’t agree to spending cuts in
return for Republicans’ raising the debt ceiling. Yet he did
exactly that in 2011. And he should do it again.  The  debt ceiling  ought to be raised because nobody has a
plan to eliminate the deficit immediately, and there is no
popular support for doing what that would take. A congressman
who isn’t presenting and supporting a zero-deficit-now plan has
an obligation to give the federal government the additional
borrowing authority that continued deficits make necessary.  For liberals, that’s the end of the matter. The debt
ceiling should be raised without any spending cuts attached, and
ideally it should be raised to infinity. One common argument
goes like this: Since Congress sets spending and tax levels, no
good purpose is served by holding a separate vote making it
possible for the government to follow Congress’s original
instructions.  That argument would have more force if the  federal budget 
were the result of a deliberate policy. Instead, more and more
of our spending rises on autopilot because of decisions made
long ago, and nobody is forced to take responsibility for the
gap between revenue and commitments. Bills to raise the debt
ceiling are the only occasions when congressmen and the
president come close to doing so. They are thus appropriate
moments to attack the trends that are driving our rising debt.  Economic Risks  Raising the debt limit requires Republican cooperation, and
there is no obvious reason why Republicans should refrain on
principle from saying that they will go along so long as
spending is cut. For Democrats to say that no conditions should
be attached to the bill is to attach a condition.  There are, of course, risks to the economy from a
protracted fight over what the conditions will be, and it would
behoove the parties to come to terms quickly.  Four steps would reduce those risks. First, Republicans
should make the conditions reasonable, rather than, say, trying
to use the leverage the debt-ceiling bill gives them to
transform the welfare state. Second, Democrats should accede to
reasonable requests rather than attacking them as though they
amounted to terrorism.  Third, the  Federal Reserve  should pledge to hold nominal-
income growth steady, since that would counteract any shock to
 consumer confidence . Fourth, and most important, all parties
should pass a law stipulating that if the debt ceiling is
breached the Treasury will still be allowed to make debt-service
payments in full. Painful spending cuts would result, but not
default.  A reasonable deal would involve spending cuts that are
acceptable to both parties -- cuts, in other words, that
Democrats can accept without violating their core convictions or
their campaign promises.  Jerry Brown , the Democratic governor of  California , is no
conservative; he just prevailed in raising taxes in his state.
But he also thinks that Medicaid spending per person  ought to be
capped , which could generate significant savings for the federal
government. Tom Daschle, the former leader of the  Senate
Democrats  and Obama’s first choice for secretary of Health and
Human Services, also supports the idea.  John Cogan, an economist at  Stanford University , argues
that Medicare should raise its co-payments. The savings wouldn’t
come from the higher fees that beneficiaries pay -- that money
could be sent back to them in the form of lower premiums so that
seniors are held harmless -- but in the reduced use of medical
services. Higher co-pays, Cogan points out, haven’t been
associated with worse health outcomes in studies.  Increasing the use of means testing in Medicare would also
save money without undermining care for the neediest. The
program should offer fewer benefits to those with the highest
lifetime incomes.  No Precedent  Democrats insist that any future  deficit reduction  be
“balanced,” with tax increases as well as spending cuts. They
see last week’s fiscal-cliff deal, in which Republicans agreed
to let some tax increases take effect, as a precedent. Around
the world, though, most successful deficit-reduction efforts in
the past three decades  have been unbalanced , tilting toward
spending cuts rather than tax increases.  Senator  Pat Toomey , a Republican from  Pennsylvania , voted
for the fiscal-cliff deal but denies it’s a precedent for future
tax increases. With taxes having just risen, he told me in an
interview, Republicans aren’t going to accept any further
increase. “Tax increases are off the table,” he said. Instead,
significant spending cuts are necessary, he argued, and they
need to begin immediately.  So raise the debt limit, sure. But start bringing the debt
under control at the same time. That’s a sensible position, and
one that Republicans should have no trouble defending to voters.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Ramesh Ponnuru  at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  