-- Why Platinum Coin Opponents Are All Wrong
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2013-01-07T17:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/why-platinum-coin-opponents-are-all-wrong.html
This morning, Joe Weisenthal and I  took our message  in favor of minting a
trillion-dollar platinum coin to "Bloomberg Surveillance," where we were met
with the usual shock and horror from hosts  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. Platinum
coin opponents are so distressed that one, Republican Representative Greg
Walden,  has said he will introduce legislation  to ban the coin, citing  my post
from last week  as a dangerous instigation. Walden, Keene and Eisen are all wrong. Here are my responses to the most
common objections we are getting to the platinum coin proposal, in increasing
order of persuasiveness: 1. "That's silly/zany/juvenile!" This is probably true, but it's not a
dispositive objection. Republican intransigence over the debt ceiling is
juvenile. There is no particular reason that the president should not use a
juvenile strategy in response. The key question to ask about the platinum coin is not "is it juvenile?" but
"will it work?" Minting the coin will allow the federal government to continue
to meet its spending obligations despite hitting the debt ceiling. It will allow
President  Barack Obama  to pressure Congress to repeal the debt ceiling. That --
not whether it seems silly -- is the important thing. 2. "Where will we get all the platinum?" I'm honestly surprised by this
question, but I'm hearing it a lot, including from the Guardian's  Heidi Moore 
and from Keene this morning. To be clear: We do not need a trillion dollars' worth of platinum to make the
trillion-dollar coin -- less than an ounce will do. This is not a move to a
"platinum standard," and it shouldn't even have any impact on the markets in
platinum. There will be no need for  dump trucks  full of precious metal to head
toward the mint. 3. "But that will be inflationary!" This is a more serious objection, and it
gets at what the platinum coin strategy really is -- financing the federal
government's operations by printing money instead of borrowing it. The trillion-
dollar coin will never circulate, but it will be used to back cash payments
coming from the Treasury that would have otherwise been financed by bond
purchases. If the government financed itself this way in general, that would absolutely
be inflationary. But the president can hold inflation expectations steady by
making absolutely clear that the policy will not lead to a net change in the
 money supply  over the long term. Obama should pledge that once Congress
authorizes additional borrowing, he will direct the Treasury to issue bonds to
cover the government's coin-backed spending and then to melt the coin. The concern about inflation actually gets at why the platinum coin strategy
will work to defuse the debt-ceiling crisis. Minting a platinum coin will
demonstrate that Congress accidentally gave the president direct control over
monetary policy, allowing him to inflate if he wishes. The need to neutralize
that threat will motivate Republicans to raise the debt ceiling. Like the debt ceiling itself, the platinum coin exercise is an asymmetrical,
negative-sum game. Nobody wants to hit the debt ceiling, but it bothers
conservatives less because they view increasing government dysfunction as useful
for achieving their policy goals. Nobody wants the president to pay the
government's bills by printing money, but it bothers conservatives more because
they are more afraid of inflation. If the president is clear about his lack of any long-term intention to
interfere with the money supply, I don't expect the platinum coin to cause a
spike in prices. But if it does, that will only add more motivation for Congress
to end the crisis by passing a law that both removes the president's authority
to print money and abolishes the debt ceiling. 4. "This will undermine confidence in the U.S. government/dollar/central
bank." Well, it's all relative. The best solution, from a confidence
perspective, would be for Congress to simply repeal the debt limit, or at least
increase it without conditions, thus eliminating this manufactured "crisis" and
any need for a trillion-dollar coin. That's what Matt Cooper  calls for , but it's not going to happen. Remember,
the Republican conference is  a bunch of babies . Instead, we need to compare the platinum coin option against others on the
table. For example, we could hit the debt ceiling and the government could start
leaving about 40 percent of its bills unpaid. The president could accede to Republican demands for near-term spending cuts
(of an as-yet-unspecified nature) in addition to the amounts from the Budget
Control Act sequesters, which would cause another recession. Or he could assert authority under the 14th Amendment to continue issuing
debt, notwithstanding the debt ceiling, which would lead to court battles and
probably impeachment. (The 14th Amendment play sounds less "silly" than the
platinum coin, but it's actually on much shakier legal ground.) Minting the platinum coin would be less economically damaging than any of the
above options, which is why Obama should announce he will pursue it if the debt
ceiling is not raised. Hopefully, inflation hawks will be so alarmed by the
president's intention to use his direct monetary authority that they will choose
to cut a deal and we'll never actually get to the minting stage. But if Republicans call Obama's bluff, he should  be ready to mint that coin  -
- and to save the economy by doing so. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  E-mail  him and  follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .