-- Xinhua Unit Applies for Shanghai IPO Amid Domestic Censor Debate
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-08T03:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/xinhua-unit-applies-for-shanghai-ipo-following-people-s-daily.html
Xinhuanet.com , the online news
provider of  China ’s official Xinhua News Agency, applied for an
initial public offering in  Shanghai , amid a domestic debate over
media censorship.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission noted the
application in a Jan. 4  posting  on its website, without
indicating the amount Xinhuanet intends to raise or how it will
be used. An official who answered a call to Xinhuanet’s
operations department in Beijing today declined to identify
himself or to comment on the IPO plans.  People.cn Co., the online arm of the Communist Party-run
People’s Daily newspaper, raised 1.4 billion  yuan  ($225 million)
in an IPO last year as state-run media seek to reduce their
financial burden on the central government. The offerings are
unlikely to affect China’s control of the press, according to
analyst Liu Shengjun, even after a group of lawyers and scholars
called for a provincial propaganda head’s dismissal in a spat
over media restrictions.  “For normal companies, if they go public they have to
adjust management and operations to become more market driven,
but for such state-owned media this is not the case,” said Liu,
a deputy director at the China Europe International Business
School in Shanghai. “They operate with a certain ideology and
act as part of the nation’s governing mechanism.”  Restrictions Protest  The scholars and lawyers earlier this month said that the
top propaganda official in  Guangdong province  should step down
over efforts to censor an editorial in the Southern Weekly. The
newspaper’s article was changed after it called for expanded
individual freedoms and more checks on government power.  The government Jan. 4 denied that it censors the press.  “There exists no system of censorship in China,” said
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying, when asked about the
group’s open letter. “China’s government protects the freedom
of the press under the law.”  Foreign companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have also sparred
with the government over blocks on websites that contain
pornography, gambling and content critical of the ruling
Communist Party. Google’s YouTube video site is blocked in China,
as are social media including Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc.  Google said in January 2010 it wouldn’t self-censor content
for Chinese services, shuttered its local search page and
redirected users to a  Hong Kong  site.  In June, Google introduced a feature to its website that
notified users in China about search terms that might become
targets of the country’s Internet censors and result in service
disruptions.  That feature was disabled sometime between Dec. 5 and Dec.
8, according to GreatFire.org, a website that collects data
about China’s so-called Great Firewall. Taj Meadows, a Google
spokesman in  Japan , confirmed that the feature has been disabled
and declined to comment further.  Xinhuanet News  Xinhuanet releases news items 24 hours a day in eight
languages, including Chinese, English, Japanese and Tibetan. The
company is “an important information organ of the central
government, and an important platform for building up China’s
online international communication capacity,” according to its
 website .  The business was founded in 1997 and began transforming
itself from “a governmental cultural institution to an
enterprise” in 2010, the website says. Xinhuanet Corp. was
established in 2011.  Xinhua TV arm,  CNC Holdings Ltd. (8356) , started trading in Hong
Kong by means of a reverse merger in February 2012. The  stock 
has lost 48 percent since the transaction.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  