-- Yandex Drops as Antitrust Ruling Stokes Google Concerns
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-07T13:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/yandex-drops-as-antitrust-ruling-stokes-google-concerns.html
Yandex (YNDX)  NV, trading at its biggest
discount to Google Inc. since October, is losing the confidence
of investors on concern the Russian search engine will forfeit
market share to its U.S. competitor after an antitrust ruling.  Shares of Yandex fell 0.2 percent Jan. 4 to $23.24 on the
Nasdaq Composite Index, as Google rallied 2 percent to $737.97.
The price gap was the widest since Oct. 17. The  Bloomberg
Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian stocks listed
in the U.S. added 0.9 percent Jan. 4, extending its weekly
advance to 4.5 percent, the most since September.  Yandex, which has more than double the market share of
Google in  Russia , may come under pressure as the  Mountain View ,
California-based company looks to extend its dominance of the
global search sphere after a U.S. Federal Trade Commission probe
was closed Jan. 3, according to Piper Jaffray Cos, which follows
both stocks. Google’s share of Russian searches grew to 26.4
percent in December, from 25.5 percent a year earlier. Yandex’s
increased to 60.6 percent from 60.5 percent.  “Psychologically, that’s why Yandex is down,”  Gene Munster , a senior research analyst at Piper Jaffray, who rates
both companies the equivalent of buy, said by phone from
 Minneapolis , Minnesota Jan. 4. “Google gets their FTC issues
out of the way, it conceptually means that they’re going to be
better positioned to compete in all markets, including Russia.”  The FTC concluded last week after a 20-month investigation
that Google was motivated more by wanting to improve its search
results and the user’s experience than by a desire to subdue
competition, Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said. The probe looked at
whether Google unfairly disadvantaged competing websites by
favoring its own services in search results.  ETF Rallies  The closing of the investigation shows that “Google’s
services are good for users and good for competition,” the U.S.
company said in a Jan. 3  blog post . An e-mail to Moscow-based
Yandex’s media relations team sent after hours Jan. 5 wasn’t
returned.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund of Russian shares, added 0.3 percent to
$30.57 Jan. 4, boosting its weekly gain to 4 percent. Russia’s
Moscow Exchange is closed until Jan. 9 for holidays.  Google, owner of the world’s dominant search engine, may be
able to make headway in Russia through mobile phones and its
Android operating system, Piper Jaffray’s Munster said. The
company plans to devote more attention to mobile devices as its
rivalry with Apple Inc. accelerates. Goggle acquired handset
maker Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. for $12.4 billion in May.  “As more and more people do searches on mobile phones,
they’re in a good position around that,” Munster said. “ Google (GOOG) 
gained some success last year, but it needs to keep growing.”  Oil Bump  The Russia-US measure advanced for a fifth straight week
last week, the longest rising streak since July, as crude posted
the biggest weekly climb since September. Oil and and natural
gas contribute about 50 percent of Russian government revenue.  Crude oil for February delivery rose 0.2 percent to $93.09
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  Jan. 4, capping a
weekly advance of 2.5 percent. Oil was down 0.5 percent to
$92.61 by 8:45 a.m. in  New York .  Brent oil for February settlement dropped 0.7 percent to
$111.31 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
at the end of last week, while Urals crude, Russia’s chief
export blend, slid 0.4 percent to $110.78, trimming a weekly
gain of 1.4 percent. Urals traded 1.2 percent lower today at
$109.51.  ‘Cyclical Market’  “Russia is a cyclical market, and January is the best
month for cyclicals, stocks that trade with the economic
cycle,” Nicholas Smithie, an emerging-markets strategist at UBS
AG in New York, said by phone Jan. 4. “What we have in Russia
is a budget that depends on the price of oil, an economy that
depends on oil, and we’re in a strong seasonal period for oil
demand right now within the northern hemisphere.”  OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s largest producer of steelmaking coal,
was the biggest gainer on the Russia-US gauge last week, jumping
8.7 percent. The company’s American depositary receipts added
1.7 percent to $7.36 in New York Jan. 4 after Ural-Press-Inform
reported that  Mechel (MTLR) ’s  Chelyabinsk Metallurgical Plant (CHMK)  unit
completed expansion of its wastewater biochemical treatment
facility last month, citing unit spokeswoman Yekaterina Doldina.  OAO Gazprom Neft, the oil arm of state-backed natural gas
export monopoly OAO Gazprom, led U.S.-traded stocks higher Jan.
4, rising 2.8 percent for a weekly advance of 6.4 percent.
Mining company  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (NILSY)  was the worst performer on
the index, dropping 0.9 percent to $19.38 and trimming a 3.3
percent weekly advance as metals prices fell.  Gold Retreats  The S&P GSCI Spot Index of commodities retreated 0.5
percent to 646.71 Jan. 4, the biggest slump in two weeks. The
gauge fell a third day today, losing 0.2 percent to 645.52, the
lowest level since Dec. 28.    ADRs of  Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PLZLY)  slipped 0.6 percent
to $3.2 in New York Jan. 4 as gold futures for February delivery
slid 1.5 percent to settle at $1,648.90 an ounce on the Comex in
New York.  Prices for the metal dropped for a sixth straight week, the
longest slump since 2004, after minutes from the U.S. Federal
Open Market Committee’s meeting Dec. 11 to Dec. 12 showed that
policy makers will probably end the bond buying program known as
quantitative easing that has fueled gains in global assets.  Polyus, Russia’s largest gold miner, slid 1.5 percent last
week. That was the biggest slump since Nov. 16 and made Polyus
the lone decliner on the Bloomberg index on a weekly basis. Gold
fell 0.5 percent today.  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
climbed 1.2 percent to HK$5.05 in Hong Kong trading today, the
highest close since May 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  