-- Yen Advances Amid Bets BOJ Action Priced In; Euro Falls
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-01-08T22:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/yen-gains-a-second-day-on-bets-declines-were-excessive.html
The yen gained for a second day
versus the dollar, extending a rally from a 29-month low, amid
ebbing risk appetite and speculation the currency’s three-month
slide already incorporates proposed stimulus measures.  The euro dropped for the first time in three days before
the  European Central Bank  meets this week. The yen gained versus
all of its 16 most-traded peers even as Finance Minister Taro
Aso said Japan will buy euro-denominated sovereign debt to help
weaken the currency. Stocks fell. Sweden’s krona declined after
minutes of the central bank’s December meeting showed two policy
makers considered a deeper interest-rate cut.  “Yen’s lost about 5 to 7 percent of its value in the last
few weeks,” Peter Gorra, chief dealer in New York at BNP
Paribas SA, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen. “We could see just a little
bit of unraveling of those positions, where the yen strengthens
maybe another 50 to 100 basis points. Then you see the continued
devaluation.” A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The yen appreciated 0.9 percent to 87.05 per dollar at 5
p.m. in New York after sliding on Jan. 4 to 88.41, the weakest
level since July 2010.  Japan ’s currency climbed 1.1 percent to
113.86 per euro and touched 113.64, the lowest level this year.
 Europe ’s shared currency weakened 0.3 percent to $1.3081 after
closing 0.4 percent higher yesterday.  The yen may depreciate to 90 per dollar, Gorra said. That
would be the weakest level since June 2010.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as 0.7 percent
before paring the decline to 0.3 percent.  Worst Performer  The yen tumbled 12 percent over the past three months, the
worst performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar weakened
0.7 percent, while the euro gained 1 percent.  Indonesia ’s rupiah slid against all 31 of its most-traded
peers tracked by Bloomberg, touching the weakest level since
September 2009 versus the greenback, after the government said
its failure to reach its spending target last year crimped
economic growth. The currency depreciated as much as 1.8 percent
to 9,847 per dollar.  The euro headed toward its 50-day moving average of $1.2996
after failing to breach it for the past two days. Moving
averages, which indicate momentum, are seen by some traders as
potential turning points in the direction of a currency’s price.
The ECB meets Jan. 10.  “We did have a decent move higher in the euro yesterday,
so we’re kind of taking back some of yesterday’s gains,”
Michael LaVina, a senior trader in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at
Faros Trading LLC, said in a telephone interview.  Relative Strength  The yen’s 14-day relative strength  index (SPX)  versus the dollar
ended the day at 30.8, just above 30, a level some traders view
as a signal an asset has fallen too far, too fast. It was 20.9
yesterday.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  next meets Jan. 21-22. Policy makers
boosted stimulus at their previous gathering in December while
refraining from raising their inflation goal from 1 percent.
Newly elected Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called for a doubling of
the inflation measure.  Japan will use foreign-exchange reserves to buy European
Stability Mechanism bonds to help weaken the yen, Aso told
reporters today in  Tokyo . The decision will also help the
“financial stability of Europe,” he said.  The Japanese government will watch the  currency market 
“closely” and will strengthen cooperation with the BOJ to
counter deflation, according to a draft of its emergency
economic measures released today. Abe said on Jan. 1 that
“bold” monetary policy was one of the three prongs of his
economic plan.  ‘Desired Effect’  “The rhetoric worked -- it had the desired effect of
weakening the yen without intervention,” Alfonso Esparza,
senior currency analyst in Toronto at the online currency
trading firm Oanda Corp., said in a telephone interview. “On
pure fundamentals, it’s very easy to see Japan being more
proactive weakening the yen. That will work for short periods of
time, as we’ve seen, and then there will be a bounce back.”  Sweden’s krona fell versus its 16 major counterparts after
the minutes of the central bank’s Dec. 17 meeting showed deputy
governors Per Jansson and Barbro Wickman-Parak “thought a great
deal” about cutting the repurchase rate by half a percentage
point last month. The Riksbank on Dec. 18 lowered its benchmark
by a quarter of a percentage point to 1 percent.  The krona declined 0.7 percent to 8.5822 per euro and slid
0.9 percent to 6.5608 per dollar.  Pound Declines  The pound fell toward the weakest level in a month against
the dollar before a  Bank of England  meeting this week. Policy
makers are forecast to keep  interest rates  at a record low as
they struggle to stoke a recovery. The U.K. economy shrank 0.1
percent last year, while the U.S. expanded 2.2 percent,
according to a Bloomberg News surveys.  “U.S. growth is outperforming U.K. to such an extent that
the last time we saw this kind of a differential was pretty much
in the 1980s,” said Peter Kinsella, a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “Definitely you’ll see
lower levels in cable over the course of the year,” he said,
referring to the pound-dollar  exchange rate .  The pound dropped 0.4 percent to $1.6056 after falling to
$1.6010 on Jan. 4, the lowest level since Dec. 7. The U.K.
currency slipped 0.1 percent to 81.48 pence per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  