-- Yum Says China Same-Store Sales Fell After Supplier Probe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-08T21:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-07/yum-falls-after-preliminary-profit-trails-estimates.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the Taco
Bell and KFC chains, said fourth-quarter same-store sales fell
more than projected in  China  after a government probe into one
of its former suppliers hurt demand.  KFC sales in China in the last two weeks of December had a
“significant impact” from “adverse publicity associated with
a government review of China poultry supply,” the Louisville,
Kentucky-based company said in a filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission yesterday. China same-store sales fell 6
percent in the fourth quarter, compared with a previous estimate
for a decline of 4 percent, according to the filing.  The  Shanghai   Food and Drug Administration  on Dec. 20 said
tests conducted by a third-party agency from 2010 to 2011 found
found eight batches of chicken supplied to Yum by Liuhe Group
Co. had antibiotics levels that didn’t meet prescribed
standards. Yum, which operates KFC and Pizza Hut locations in
China, got 44 percent of its revenue from the nation in 2011.
The company said it stopped all supplies from Liuhe in August.  “Until the company is able to mount a PR campaign that
successfully regains the trust of Chinese consumers, sales and
EPS are at material risk,” Bryan Elliott, a analyst at Raymond
James Financial Inc., said in a research note. He rates the
company the equivalent of sell.  The shares  dropped  percent 4.2 percent to $65.04 at the
close in  New York , the biggest decline since Nov. 30. Yum gained
13 percent last year.  High Trust  “The trust in KFC was so high that now the anger is
high,” said  Shaun Rein , managing director of China Market
Research in Shanghai. “People tend to trust Western brands,
they think these brands have better quality control over the
supply chain and they are not going to cut corners.”  Food safety  is a big worry for many Chinese consumers and
it may take at least three to six months for them to start
returning to KFC stores, Rein said.  Yum also reported preliminary profit that trailed analysts’
estimates in the filing. Profit excluding some items in 2012 was
$3.24 a share, the company said in yesterday’s filing. The
average estimate of 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $3.26
when the filing was released. The company plans to report
fourth-quarter and full-year 2012 results on Feb. 4.  Yum in 2011 received negatively publicity in the U.S. when
a  law firm  filed a class-action lawsuit claiming Taco Bell
didn’t use enough real beef in its food to label it as such.
While Chief Executive Officer  David Novak  called the claim false
and said the restaurant’s seasoned meat is 88 percent real beef,
three quarters of same-store sales declines at Taco Bell’s U.S.
stores followed. The lawsuit was later dropped.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  