-- Arabica Coffee Will Rebound on Tighter Supplies, Illy Says
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-03-24T16:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/arabica-coffee-will-rebound-on-tighter-supplies-illy-says.html
Arabica-coffee futures may rebound
to as high as $2 a pound by year-end as global stockpiles
tighten, world demand remains firm and  climate change  keeps
production trailing demand, according to Illycaffe SpA.  “World inventories are still very low at producing and
importing countries,” Andrea Illy, chief executive officer of
the Trieste, Italy-based specialty coffee company, said in an
interview during the National Coffee Association’s annual
conference in Charleston,  South Carolina .  Next year’s Brazilian crop, the world’s largest, will enter
the low-cycle of the biennial harvest, reducing the small
surplus left by the bigger production this year, Illy said. In
addition, Colombia’s output, the second biggest grower of the
arabica beans, has not recovered from weather-induced losses
seen in the last three years, which may leave global stockpiles
in a tight situation, as demand remains resilient, he said.  Climate changes have been disrupting global coffee
production, as was the case in  Colombia  and parts of Central
America in the last couple of years, Illy said during a
presentation.  “It’s reasonable to expect a recovery in prices,” he
said.  The closely held company, which makes specialty coffee and
sells the brand in 140 countries, had revenue of $434 million in
2010, according to its website.  Arabica coffee for May delivery advanced 1 percent to
$1.7875 a pound yesterday on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, after
falling to $1.7445, the lowest for a most-active contract since
Oct. 8, 2010. Still, prices are down 33 percent in the past year
as the market anticipated  Brazil ’s higher yields for this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  