-- Man. City Regains Premier League Lead as Wigan Beats Liverpool
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-03-24T20:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/arsenal-gets-seventh-straight-league-win-wigan-downs-liverpool.html
Manchester City rallied from a goal
down to tie 1-1 at Stoke City and move ahead of  Manchester
United  atop the Premier League. Arsenal beat Aston Villa 3-0 for
its seventh straight league win.  Manchester City’s Toure Yaya scored with a deflected shot
from 30 meters out at the Britannia Stadium, canceling out Peter
Crouch’s volleyed goal. City leads United on goal difference.
Manchester United hosts Fulham at 8 p.m. local time on Monday,
March 26.  Wigan won 2-1 at Liverpool for its first win at Anfield,
helping its chances of avoiding relegation.  Kieran Gibbs,  Theo Walcott  and Mikel Arteta scored for
Arsenal at Emirates stadium, strengthening its grip on third
place. The Gunners moved three points ahead of north London
rival Tottenham, which drew 0-0 at Chelsea.  Gibbs got his first Premier League goal for Arsenal and
Walcott made it 2-0 before half-time. Arteta got the third goal
with a stoppage-time free-kick.  Tottenham’s  Rafael van der Vaart  had a shot cleared off the
goal-line by Ashley Cole at Stamford Bridge. Chelsea’s  Juan Mata 
hit the post with a free-kick.  At Anfield, Wigan led on Shaun Maloney’s first-half penalty
kick.  Luis Suarez  leveled two minutes after the interval before
Gary Caldwell hit the winner in the 63rd minute. Wigan stays
19th in the 20-team standings.  Queens Park Rangers dropped into the three-team relegation
zone after losing 3-1 at Sunderland. Bolton overtook QPR and
climbed out of the bottom three places after beating Blackburn
2-1.  It was Bolton’s first game since its midfielder Fabrice Muamba suffered a cardiac arrest in a game at Tottenham one week
ago. Muamba has shown signs of recovery in the intensive care
unit of the London hospital where he is being treated, Bolton
said on March 20.  In other games today, Everton won 2-0 at Swansea and
Norwich beat last-placed Wolves 2-1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  