-- Australia Labor Party to Lose Queensland Vote, ABC Projects
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-03-24T09:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/australian-labor-party-to-lose-queensland-ballot-abc-projects.html
Australia ’s Queensland state is set
for a change of government, with early vote counting in today’s
election showing the opposition Liberal National Party will end
14 years of Labor rule, according to the Australian Broadcasting
Corp.  “The LNP is on track for a landslide,” ABC election
commentator and political analyst Antony Green said. The Liberal
Nationals have secured 68 of the state parliament’s 89 seats,
including the electorate of Ashgrove being contested by party
leader Campbell Newman, with Labor winning five, the broadcaster
said.  The pending election loss for Anna Bligh-led Labor, its
first in Queensland since 1996, will deepen the challenge for
Prime Minister Julia Gillard 20 months before a national ballot
is due. A defeat would leave the party out of power in all but
the two smallest of Australia’s six states.  “There’s a feeling in Queensland that the government’s
energy levels have been drained and it’s time for a change,”
said Stephen Stockwell, a political analyst at Brisbane’s
Griffith University.  Before today’s vote, Labor held 51 seats in Queensland to
the opposition’s 34. With 37 percent of ballots counted, the LNP
was ahead with 49 percent of first preference votes, to Labor’s
27 percent, according to the state  electoral commission ’s
website.  Unemployment Rate  Queensland’s  unemployment rate  soared more than 2
percentage points during Bligh’s five years in power, as the
local dollar’s climb to its strongest since the early 1980s hurt
the  tourism industry  in the region known as the “Sunshine
State.” The popularity of Australia’s first elected female
premier has sunk since she led the state’s recovery from a
cyclone and deadly floods last year amid voter anger over sales
of state assets.  Seven federal seats in Queensland are held by Labor members
with margins of less than 6 percent, electoral commission
figures show. The northeastern state accounted for more than
half the national seats lost by Labor in the most recent federal
vote in 2010.  Gillard’s minority government, which trails the federal
opposition by 12 percentage points according to the latest
Newspoll, is struggling to revive Labor’s popularity before a
national election that must be held by the end of 2013.  ‘Damage Control’  “It’s a hugely important state,” said John Wanna, a
professor of public administration at the Canberra-based
 Australian National University  and the author of a book on the
state’s political history. “Bligh’s realized the election has
been lost for a while now and has been in damage control, trying
to reduce the margin of the loss.”  Queensland , Australia’s largest debtor state, lost its Aaa
 credit rating  from Moody’s Investors Service in May 2009, which
Newman, a former mayor of the state capital of Brisbane, has
vowed to restore.  “I’ve said from the very outset of this campaign that
Labor would be fighting an uphill battle,” Bligh told reporters
today as she cast her ballot in Brisbane. “We were fighting an
overwhelming mood for change.”  Newman, 48, led Brisbane’s recovery efforts during last
year’s floods. During his campaign, the opposition leader
countered allegations that a property developer who made seven
donations to his re-election fund as mayor was also conducting
business from a property owned by Newman’s family.  Agricultural Heartland  Queensland was an agricultural heartland for Australia
until the late 1980s, when international tourism, led by  Japan ’s
booming middle class, led to a development surge in Brisbane and
the  Gold Coast , which are now the nation’s third- and sixth-
largest cities.  After winning power in 1989, the  Labor Party  has ruled for
all but two years. In 1996, the main opposition party won a by-
election that gave it a majority, which it lost in the next
state election in 1998. Bligh, 51, took office in September
2007.  Bligh raised A$15 billion from selling off state assets
such as coal-train operator  QR National Ltd.. (QRN)   A former social worker who grew up in a single-parent home,
Bligh won praise for her handling of the aftermath of  Cyclone
Yasi  that hit Queensland in February 2011. The storm contributed
to flooding that killed at least 35 people, affected 70 towns
and cities and saw three-quarters of the state declared a
disaster zone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  