-- Australia’s Ruling Labor Loses Queensland in Landslide Vote
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2012-03-25T03:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/bligh-concedes-defeat-in-australia-s-queensland-state-election.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s  Labor party  suffered its worst defeat at a state
election in Queensland, deepening her challenge before a
national ballot due in 2013.  The landslide against former Queensland Premier  Anna Bligh 
leaves the party out of power in all but the two smallest of
 Australia ’s six states. With almost 70 percent of ballots
counted, the Liberal National coalition was ahead in 78 of the
state’s 89 electorates, with Labor leading in 7, down from 51,
according to the electoral commission’s  website .  “The scale of the thrashing in Queensland is a wake-up
call to Gillard that voters won’t tolerate any more mistakes
from Labor,” said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts political
marketing research at the  Australian National University  in
Canberra. “The result isn’t a sea-change, it’s a tsunami that’s
completely wiped out Labor” in Queensland.  Queensland voters backed Liberal National Party leader
Campbell Newman, a 48-year-old former army lieutenant who made
history by leading his coalition to victory before holding a
seat in the Queensland parliament. Bligh, 51, who was
Australia’s first elected female premier, today announced her
decision to step down as state Labor leader and resign from the
Queensland parliament.  “The size of the loss, the loudness and clarity of the
message sent by the people of Queensland is unmistakable,”
Bligh told reporters in Brisbane today. “Queensland voted for a
new government. It also voted to close the book on my era in
Queensland politics.”  Minority Government  Gillard’s minority government, which trails the federal
opposition by 12 percentage points according to the latest
Newspoll, is struggling to revive Labor’s popularity nationally.  The prime minister needs to spend as much time as possible
in Queensland selling her government’s policies, former Labor
Queensland Premier Peter Beattie told the Australian
Broadcasting Corp.’s “Insiders” program today. Labor “can
lose the next federal election in Queensland alone,” Beattie
said.  Newman, a former Brisbane mayor, is pledging to cut the
state’s  unemployment  rate to 4 percent from the current 5.7
percent and restore its AAA  credit rating , lost after Labor
spent A$54 billion ($56 billion) to fix ailing infrastructure.  Newman countered allegations during his campaign that a
property developer who made seven donations to his re-election
fund as mayor was also conducting business from a property owned
by Newman’s family.  All Queenslanders  “I pledge to you that we will conduct ourselves with
dignity, grace and humility and we will work for all
Queenslanders regardless of their vote tonight,” Newman said in
claiming victory. “We don’t for a moment underestimate the
magnitude of the task ahead.”  Queensland’s unemployment rate soared more than 2
percentage points during Bligh’s five years in power, as the
local dollar’s climb to its strongest level since the early
1980s hurt the  tourism industry  in the region known as the
“Sunshine State.”  Bligh, a former social worker who grew up in a single-
parent home, won praise for her handling of the aftermath of
Cyclone Yasi that hit  Queensland  in February 2011. The storm
contributed to flooding that killed at least 35 people, affected
70 towns and cities and saw three-quarters of the state declared
a disaster zone.  State Assets  The popularity of Australia’s first elected female premier
sunk amid voter anger after Bligh raised A$15 billion from
selling off state assets such as coal-train operator  QR National
Ltd. (QRN)   Queensland was an agricultural heartland for Australia
until the late 1980s, when international tourism, led by  Japan ’s
booming middle class, produced a development surge in Brisbane
and the  Gold Coast , which are now the nation’s third- and sixth-
largest cities.  Queensland, Australia’s largest debtor state, lost its Aaa
credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service in May 2009.  After winning power in 1989, Labor has ruled for all but
two years in the state.  “The result is a combination of voters wearying of a party
after so long in power and punishing it for its mistakes,”
Australian National University’s Hughes said. “The party has
lost most of its talent and future leaders, and the scale of
this loss means it’s highly unlikely it will get back in power
this decade.”  Labor will need to select a new leader in Queensland from a
drained talent pool. The election rout has seen 10 Labor
ministers lose their seats, including former Deputy Premier and
Treasurer  Andrew Fraser .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  