-- Brazil Said to Still Be Evaluating World Bank Candidates
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2012-03-24T00:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/brazil-said-to-still-be-evaluating-world-bank-candidates.html
Brazil  still hasn’t decided who it
will support to become the World Bank’s next president after it
nominated former Colombian Finance Minister Jose Antonio Ocampo
to lead the institution, a government official said.  Brazil put forth Ocampo’s nomination today at the request
of the Dominican Republic, whom it represents on the
multilateral lender’s executive board, said the official in
Brasilia, who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  For Brazil, more important than a candidate’s nationality
is whether they support the government’s goal of giving a bigger
voice to emerging markets in the running of the Washington-based
institution, the official said.  Ocampo, who teaches at Columbia University in  New York , was
one of three candidates nominated today to succeed  Robert
Zoellick  when he steps down from the bank in June. He’ll compete
against Nigerian Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and the
U.S. nominee Jim Yong Kim, president of Dartmouth College.  Brazil has long criticized the informal arrangement that
gives the bank’s leadership to an U.S. citizen and that of the
 International Monetary Fund  to a European. Still, it failed to
back Mexico central bank Governor Agustin Carstens when he
challenged  Christine Lagarde  last year for leadership of the
IMF.  Carstens said today that he does not see conditions for a
“fair” election to choose the next World Bank chief.  “What would be interesting is that the election take place
under a mechanism that really tries to identify the best
possible candidate,” Carstens said in an interview before
participating in a Bloomberg CEO roundtable discussion in  Mexico 
City today. “I fear that we are not there yet.”  Heads of state from Brazil, Russia, India, China and  South
Africa  will discuss the possibility of jointly supporting a
candidate to lead the World Bank when they meet next week in New
Dehli for a summit of the BRICS group of major emerging markets,
Carlos Cozendey, secretary for international affairs at the
Brazilian Finance Ministry, said earlier today before the
nominations were announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  