-- Canada Dollar Declines for a 3rd Week as Economic Growth Stalls
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-03-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/canada-dollar-declines-for-a-3rd-week-as-economic-growth-stalls.html
Canada ’s dollar depreciated for the
third straight week, the longest string of losses since August,
as a rally in higher-risk assets faded, stoking demand for
havens such as the yen,  U.S. dollar  and Swiss franc.  The currency touched the lowest level this month yesterday,
reflecting diminished confidence in the nation’s economy after
reports during the week on retail sales and consumer prices
trailed median forecasts. Futures trading shows a reduced
likelihood of interest-rate increases. Canadian Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  will present the government’s budget on March 29.  “The Canadian dollar has been underperforming against its
major counterparts,” said David Song, a currency analyst in  New
York  at DailyFX.com, the research unit of  FXCM Inc. (FXCM) , an online
currency-trading service. “It seems like the Bank of Canada
will be on hold for a prolonged period.”  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, fell 0.6 percent on the week to 99.78 cents
against the U.S. dollar yesterday in Toronto. One Canadian
dollar purchases $1.0022.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent this week,
it’s first decline since the five days ended Feb. 10. The MSCI
World Index lost 1 percent. Equities are the primary driver of
the Canadian dollar’s performance, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The correlation coefficient between the loonie and the  S&P
500  was 0.75 yesterday, versus 0.51 for oil, 0.61 for copper and
0.46 for the U.S.-Canada two-year yield spread, 30-day
correlation data show. A coefficient of 1 means the measures
move in lockstep.  Third Worst  The loonie dropped 0.7 percent over the past week, the
third-worst performer after losses of 1.3 percent by the
Australian dollar and 0.9 percent by its New Zealand
counterpart, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes, a gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The
yen and franc topped the  index. (SPX)   Canada’s currency touched C$1.0034 yesterday versus the
greenback, the least since it reached C$1.0050 on Feb. 17.  “Canada has got a very good chance of trading beyond its
current range, certainly to the weaker side,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the online currency-
trading firm Oanda Corp. “Longer-term players are certainly
very comfortable being short Canada.” A short position is a bet
the currency will weaken.  Popplewell estimates fair value for the currency is about
five cents weaker. Average forecasts in a Bloomberg survey tell
a different story. The loonie will strengthen to 98 cents versus
the U.S. dollar by the end of 2012, according to the median of
37 economists’ and analysts’ projections.  ‘Fade the Rally’  “We think the U.S. dollar remains range-bound for now
versus the Canadian dollar,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency
strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities unit, wrote
in a note to clients yesterday. “A clear push through C$1.0050
is needed to confirm a breakout -- and that likely means
something in excess of C$1.0075-80 on a sustained basis. For
now, fade the rally.”  Government bonds  climbed, pushing the yield on the
benchmark  10-year note  lower by six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.18 percent. The yield reached 2.297
percent on March 19, the highest since October.  Yields on Canada’s  two-year note  dropped four basis points
to 1.24 percent, as traders speculated the central bank was
moving further from raising rates.  Core Inflation  Canada’s consumer price  index  rose 2.6 percent in February
from a year earlier, following January’s 2.5 percent gain,
 Statistics Canada  said yesterday. The core rate, which excludes
eight volatile items, rose 2.3 percent, the fastest since
December 2008. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the
total rate would quicken to 2.7 percent and core inflation would
be 2.2 percent, according to the median of 25 estimates.  Retail sales in Canada expanded 0.5 percent in January, as
the biggest jump in new car sales in three years was blunted by
declines at home-improvement and electronics stores, Statistics
Canada said March 22 in Ottawa. That was less than the 1.8
percent median projection of 24 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bank of Canada has held its target  lending rate  at 1
percent since September 2010 in the longest pause since the
1950s. Borrowing costs aren’t forecast to advance until the
first quarter of 2013, according to economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Trimming Expectations  The yield on the September 2012 bankers’ acceptances
contract, a barometer of short-term rate projections, dropped
one basis point to 1.31 percent today, from 1.37 on March 15,
which was the highest level since August. The decreasing yield
indicates traders are trimming expectations for policy makers to
raise rates.  “With the budget next week and with potential other
measures looming, and already trying to see the impact of
tightening elsewhere in terms of lending, they want to see how
that plays out,”  Mark Chandler , head of fixed-income and
currency strategy at Royal  Bank of Canada ’s RBC Capital Markets
unit in Toronto, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  