-- Central Bankers Debate Best Criteria for Setting Interest Rates
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-24T19:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/central-bankers-debate-best-criteria-for-setting-interest-rates.html
Central bankers at a Federal
Reserve conference in  Washington  rekindled a debate over the
best criteria for altering interest rates, pitting simple rules
against complex models that estimate growth and inflation.  Lars Svensson, a deputy governor for  Sweden ’s central bank,
said policy makers when setting interest rates should learn from
an array of models and indicators and monitor an economy’s
changing structure, while pursuing specified goals such as
inflation. European Central Bank governing council member
 Athanasios Orphanides  argued for using a price rule when setting
interest rates because of the inaccuracy of estimating the gap
between real and potential economic growth.  Orphanides noted large errors in forecasting the euro
area’s potential growth rate in recent years. “In the euro area,
the whole history” of output gap forecasting “has not been
very encouraging,” he said.  While persisting for decades, the debate among policy
makers over whether to follow basic rules or more flexible
approaches has taken on increased urgency as they try to sustain
post-crisis economic growth.  The Fed has cut interest rates to near zero and purchased
$2.3 trillion of assets in two rounds aimed at cutting an
 unemployment rate  that peaked at 10 percent in 2009 and persists
at 8.3 percent. The  European Central Bank 
reduced its  interest rate  to a record 1 percent and provided
euro-area banks with more than $1 trillion of three-year loans
in so-called longer-term refinancing operations.  Imprecise Measures  Orphanides warned against setting interest rates according
to imprecise measures and said focusing on price stability
usually leads to the best economic outcomes. In contrast, the
Fed’s current approach relies on assumptions about full
employment and the potential growth rates and is increasingly
incorporating information about credit and financial conditions.  Orphanides and his co-author, Volker Wieland from the
University of Frankfurt, said central banks should have a
numeric goal for inflation, and “no similarly fixed target for
real economic activity.” They said in their paper, presented at
the Fed conference on central banking, that policy makers should
communicate their plans clearly and avoid “unnecessary
discretion and unpredictability.”  “The ECB’s stability-oriented approach does not put great
emphasis on output-gap estimates when policy decisions are
made,” Orphanides and Wieland wrote. “One reason for this is
the extreme unreliability of real-time estimates of the output
gap for the euro area.”  Simple Rule  Svensson described a simple rule focused on an inflation
goal as “not the best approach” because it “uses only part”
of available information.  “In the real world there is updating, there is learning,”
Svensson said. “No central bank follows” a simple policy rule.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  announced a numeric inflation
goal of 2 percent in January and said it is on equal footing
with the central bank’s other mandate, full employment. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  in their January announcement
noted that the “committee considers a wide range of indicators
in making” assessments about the rate of full employment.  Svensson said the Fed had “moved to the forefront, the
leading edge of monetary policy” in its adoption of flexible
inflation targeting.  The San Francisco Fed’s director of research, Glenn Rudebusch, who also commented on the Orphanides-Wieland paper,
indicated that, if anything, policy makers are looking at a
broader array of variables to inform monetary policy after the
financial crisis of 2008. He also said cautioned against over-
reliance on models because that could produce a policy that is
“crazy volatile.”  Orphanides said a simple rule focusing on stable prices
should be a baseline for central banks, even those that want to
incorporate more models and information into how they decide on
interest rates.  “If we manage to achieve  price stability , then we will be
getting economic activity” around an economy’s potential growth
rate, he said. “Most of us believe that works.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  