-- Cheney Recovering After Heart Transplant Surgery
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-03-25T04:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/cheney-recovering-after-heart-transplant-surgery-in-virginia.html
Former Vice President  Dick Cheney 
is recuperating in a  Virginia  hospital after undergoing heart
transplant surgery yesterday, a spokeswoman said.  Cheney was in the intensive care unit of Inova Fairfax
Hospital in Falls Church, Virginia, a suburb of  Washington , D.C.,
his spokeswoman Kara Ahern said in an e-mailed statement.  The 71-year-old vice president under President  George W.
Bush  had been on a heart transplant list for more than 20
months, according to Ahern’s statement. Two years ago, Cheney
had a left ventricular assist device implanted for treatment of
end-stage heart failure.  “Although the former vice president and his family do not
know the identity of the donor, they will be forever grateful
for this life-saving gift,” Ahern said in the statement.  Cheney suffered a heart attack in 2010, his fifth since the
age of 37. He underwent bypass surgery in 1988, and has had two
angioplasties to clear narrowed coronary arteries.  Doctors implanted a special pacemaker in his chest in 2001,
and in 2008 they restored a normal heartbeat rhythm with
electrical shock. He previously has been treated for an atrial
fibrillation, an abnormal rhythm involving the upper chambers of
the heart.  Transplant Long Considered  In an NBC interview on Jan. 18, 2011, Cheney said that he
thought he’d have to decide on whether to have a heart
transplant because of his medical history. At that point, he was
getting by with a battery-powered heart pump, the  Associated
Press  reported at the time.  Cheney was vice president in Bush’s 2001-2009
administration. He also was a Republican member of the  House of
Representatives  from Wyoming and defense secretary under Bush’s
father, former President George H.W. Bush.  Cheney “is thankful to the teams of doctors and other
medical professionals at Inova Fairfax and George Washington
University Hospital for their continued outstanding care,”
Ahern said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  