-- Christie Says Republicans ‘Stupid’ to Extend Nomination Process
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-03-24T01:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/christie-says-republicans-stupid-to-extend-nomination-process.html
Chris Christie , the Republican
governor of  New Jersey (STONJ1) , said his party’s decision to extend the
presidential nomination process “stinks and it’s stupid.”  The procedure forces candidates to focus on minutiae to
differentiate themselves and turns off the public, Christie, 49,
said in a speech at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution
near  Palo Alto ,  California .  “It was the stupidest thing the  Republican National
Committee  has done in my lifetime, and that’s a high bar,”
Christie said today.  The Republican National Committee set new presidential
primary rules for this year to prevent states from moving up
their voting dates, which threatened to condense a number of
important contests into January and trigger a crush of holiday-
season campaigning. The goal was to avoid a repeat of 2008, when
Arizona Senator  John McCain  had a lock on the nomination by
March.  “We’re running against an incumbent president who will
have no primary opponent and so now we will beat ourselves
senseless for a year and a half while the president glides above
the fray, spending no money and collecting contributions,”
Christie said.  “If it’s an incumbent challenge, you should want to get to
your candidate as quickly as possible so that you can then train
your fire on the guy you’re trying to defeat,” he said during a
question-and-answer session after his speech.  Christie said in an interview that while in California he
planned to raise funds for the Republican Governors Association.  Christie said this month that, if asked, he’d consider a
request from former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney to become
his vice-presidential running mate. The New Jerseyan has
endorsed Romney and made campaign appearances on his behalf
since ruling himself out of the presidential race last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 