-- Credit Suisse Tames Rogue VIX Note Premium With Share Issuance
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-03-24T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/credit-suisse-tames-rogue-vix-note-premium-with-share-issuance.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s attempt to
restore order to its exchange-traded U.S. equity volatility note
cut the price of the security in half  this week , reining in the
premium to the index it tracks after it almost doubled.  The VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX Short-Term ETN, or TVIX,
has whipsawed investors since Credit Suisse suspended creation
of new shares last month. The security climbed 89 percent above
the  value  of the futures it tracks before the bank reversed its
decision and said it would add stock. The TVIX, designed to
double the return of Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index futures,  plunged  50 percent over the past two days to
$7.16. The note’s premium to its so-called indicative value
shrank to 6.9 percent.  The divergence between the price of the  TVIX (TVIX)  and the value
of the futures it tracks may draw regulatory scrutiny to the way
financial firms manage the supply of leveraged exchange-traded
notes, according to Colby Wright of Central Michigan University.
Individual investors may not have been aware of the premium and
could have gotten trapped before Credit Suisse responded to
pent-up demand for the TVIX by saying it would issue new shares,
thereby reducing the cost to borrow the note and sell it short,
he said.  “Retail investors have no business investing any
significant chunks of money in a security like this,” Wright,
an assistant professor of finance at Central Michigan who has
written academic papers on the securities, said in a phone
interview, referring to leveraged notes. “The real error here
is that, and maybe regulators need to look at this, is that any
time you see the price that is 30, 40, 50, 60 percent above its
indicative value, investors need to be warned about that.”  Trading Hazards  Trading in the ETN highlights the hazards of exchange-
traded securities when disruptions occur in systems designed to
balance supply and demand. Because the notes are normally pegged
to underlying assets such as stocks, bonds and indexes, sponsors
regularly create and redeem shares to offset price distortions
caused when investors buy and sell them.  Credit Suisse announced after the close of trading on March
22 that share issuance would resume, confirming trader
speculation that helped drag the TVIX down 29 percent that day.
The Zurich-based bank halted share creation on Feb. 21 after
surging demand for securities tracking volatility swelled the
note’s market value to almost $700 million from $162.8 million
at the end of 2011.  ‘Bigger Deal’  “People should have made a bigger deal on Feb. 21 when
they were suspending it because it’s directly tied to how the
product became overvalued,” said Peter Tchir, founder of TF
Market Advisors in  New York . “The product got too big and then
this turning on and turning off of the creation rights doesn’t
seem to go through a very formal process and yet it’s clearly
critical to the value and how these things trade.”  Jack Grone, a spokesman for Credit Suisse in New York,
declined to comment beyond the statement announcing new
creations would resume.  The Securities and Exchange Commission examined whether
exchange-traded funds contributed to equity-market volatility
two years ago after the intraday plunge on May 6, 2010. The
 International Monetary Fund  said last year that European ETFs
that generate returns through derivatives add a layer of
 complexity  and risk to financial markets.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest provider, called on
regulators in November to create stricter rules to enable
investors to differentiate between low-risk, traditional ETFs
and more complex products like ETNs and  Europe ’s so-called
“synthetic” ETFs.  ‘Last Word’  “These volatility ETFs will be closely monitored by the
equity derivatives industry, especially when volatility is once
again on the rise,” Stuart Rosenthal, chief executive officer
of Factor Advisors LLC in New York, said in a March 22 phone
interview. “I don’t think we have heard the last word about
TVIX creations and for that matter volatility ETFs.”  The drop in TVIX shares on March 22 reflected short selling
amid speculation new shares would come into the market after the
ETN climbed to record premiums, said Chris Hempstead, director
of exchange-traded-fund execution service at WallachBeth Capital
LLC in New York.  ‘Reputational Questions’  “It’s not overly surprising given what happened to TVIX
during the trading day,” said Dominic Salvino, a specialist on
the CBOE floor for Group One Trading, the primary market maker
for  VIX (VIX)  options. “They weren’t forced to do this in a legal
sense, but there were some reputational questions for them given
the fact that product was performing so poorly and was no longer
doing what it was meant to do.”  Volume reached 30.2 million shares on March 22, almost 8
times the daily mean since it was created in 2010, and was 29.3
million the following day. The note closed at $14.43 on March
21, or a record 89 percent above its so-called indicative  value .
The gap narrowed to 30 percent on March 22 and 6.9 percent the
following day as the security extended its decline since Oct. 3
to 93 percent. The  S&P 500  has rallied 27 percent since that
day, which marked the benchmark U.S. equity gauge’s 2011 low.  In the March 22 announcement three hours after the close of
trading in New York, Credit Suisse said the first round of
issuance is aimed at lowering the cost of borrowing shares to
the level seen before the Feb. 21 suspension. In a short sale, a
trader borrows stock and sells it, hoping to profit from a
decline by replacing it at lower prices later.  Lending Rates  “Credit Suisse may from time to time issue the ETNs into
inventory of its affiliates to make the ETNs available for
lending at or about rates that prevailed prior to the temporary
suspension of issuances of the ETNs,” the company said.  The number of shares  sold short  in the Credit Suisse note
was 4 million at the end of February, up from less than 1.5
million at the end of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ETN fell 83 percent from Oct. 3 to Feb. 29.  Starting March 28, shares will be issued to authorized
market makers. Normally, banks create and redeem ETNs based on
the level of demand for the securities. That demand usually
doesn’t affect the price since the ETNs track an index.  “Credit Suisse may issue additional ETNs from time to time
to be sold solely to authorized market makers,” according to a
statement. “Credit Suisse may condition its acceptance of a
market maker’s offer to purchase the ETNs on its agreeing to
sell to Credit Suisse specified hedging instruments consistent
with Credit Suisse’s hedging strategy, including but not limited
to swaps.”  Widening Premium  The VelocityShares ETN aims to produce twice the daily
return of the S&P 500 VIX Short-Term Futures Index, which tracks
a trading strategy involving futures on the CBOE Volatility
Index. The VIX, as the CBOE gauge is known, is used as a
benchmark measure of U.S. equities derivatives and measures the
cost of protection from losses in U.S. stocks. It fell 4.8
percent on March 23 and is poised for a record two-quarter drop
of almost 66 percent.  Credit Suisse’s decision to halt new issuance of TVIX
shares preceded a period in which the ETN began moving
independently of its underlying assets. The S&P 500 VIX Short-
Term Futures Index lost 32 percent between Feb. 21, the day of
the suspension, and March 21. That was more than twice the
decline in the ETN.  The faster decrease in the underlying index contributed to
a widening in the premium of the TVIX to the underlying asset.
The gap reached 36 percent on March 16 and then swelled to 62
percent, 78 percent and 89 percent in the next three days before
falling, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors should probably remain sidelined until TVIX has
returned to its NAV and stabilized there,” Jim Strugger, a
derivatives strategist for MKM Partners LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a March 22 e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  