-- Health-Care Arguments at High Court Draw Early Spectator Line
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-03-24T04:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/health-care-arguments-at-high-court-draw-early-spectator-line.html
Spectators began lining up three
days in advance to witness U.S.  Supreme Court  arguments over
President Barack Obama’s health-care law, the highest-profile
case since the justices resolved the disputed 2000 presidential
election.  A dozen people, mostly professional line-standers trying to
save seats for their employers’ clients, sat on a stone ledge
yesterday bordering the grounds of the marble court building,
across the street from the U.S. Capitol. The first 60 in line on
March 26 will get tickets to attend the first of three arguments
testing the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act, signed
by Obama two years ago yesterday.  “You couldn’t get me to stay away from this,” said Jethro
Maddox, 54, a community activist from Rochester,  New York .
Recalling that the Supreme Court “practically nullified the New
Deal” when  Franklin D. Roosevelt  was president in the 1930s,
Maddox said the justices “may be heading for that again, and I
want to bear witness, indignant witness, if that’s what
happens.”  The line formed on a sunny day with clear skies and Maddox
was unfazed by a forecast of violent thunderstorms over the
weekend.  “I came here assuming I would be here all night anyway,
maybe a couple of days,” he said. “I have an umbrella.”  It has been almost 12 years now since the court attracted
this kind of interest, when it ordered a halt to vote counting
in Florida and ensured Republican  George W. Bush  would defeat
Democrat  Al Gore  for the presidency.  Most of those in the queue yesterday declined to be
interviewed or even to identify themselves.  Waiting for Arguments  Oliver Gomez said his company,  linestanding.com , had
deployed five of those who were sitting outside the high court.  “We have more people coming out as needed” he said.  His line-standers, including Angela West and John Spears --
“my right-hand man” -- are expected to stay for the duration
of the wait, with time off for meal and shower breaks, he said.  “They kind of live around the vicinity,” he said. “I
will give them an hour, an hour and half at most to take care of
personal business.” Gomez, 42, has supervised line-standing at
congressional hearings where seating is often limited.  For others who don’t have a nearby place to stay, there are
restrooms at Senate office buildings or, after hours, at Union
Station and a McDonalds restaurant several blocks away.  Unnamed Clients  Gomez said he couldn’t identify any clients by name because
his boss keeps that information “close to him.”  “Some of them are big lobbyists; some are small-time
lawyers just interested in whatever part. I am not too sure”
said Gomez. “They want face time, people want to be right
there.”  Atlanta trial lawyer Kathie McClure said she “threw
everything in a suitcase” and booked a flight to  Washington 
because “our family has a stake in this. My son has diabetes
and my daughter has epilepsy.”  She brought a blue, folding camp chair and a suitcase
stocked with a few changes of clothes, power bars, trail mix and
beef jerky.  “What do you need a hotel for?” she said.  McClure, 57, president of  Votehealthcare.org , said she
plans to try to attend all three days of the court arguments.
“I will be standing,” she said, turning to Spears. “We’re
going to manage, right John?”  McClure, wearing a brown skirt and matching brown sneakers
with blue laces, said she “became an advocate because I feared
for the future for my children,” now in their 20s and working.
Without “Obamacare, if they don’t have a job they don’t have
health insurance.”  Praising Obamacare  Unlike Republicans who use the term Obamacare pejoratively,
McClure said she is trying “to co-opt that negative and decide
it’s a positive.”  “The Affordable Care Act doesn’t convey much to the
average person, but everybody knows what Obamacare is,” she
said.  Asked about how she will cope with the lack of personal
conveniences, McClure said, “I haven’t consulted with my line-
mates yet.”  Not everyone at the court yesterday was there to witness
history -- or support the law.  Laura Hanley, 42, a catering company owner from Jupiter,
 Florida , and her 10-year-old twin daughters, Keelie and Rileigh,
walked past the line-standers.  She said will be attending a weekend rally on  Capitol Hill 
to protest the health-care law.  “We’re just tired” of government “telling us what to
do,” she said. The rally is “the only way to tell your
government you care,” said Hanley, a Republican candidate for
the Palm Beach County Commission. “I want to let them know I’m
watching.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  