-- Edwards, Medtronic Heart Valves Found Safe in Sweeping Studies
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-24T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/edwards-medtronic-heart-valves-found-safe-in-sweeping-studies.html
Novel devices from  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) 
and  Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW)  that repair damaged aortic valves
without open-heart surgery safely helped patients in two of the
largest and longest reviews of the technology.  Medtronic’s CoreValve eased heart-failure symptoms in a
study of 1,015 patients with severe aortic stenosis, according
to findings released today at the  American College of Cardiology 
meeting in  Chicago . After six months, 87.2 percent were alive
with few complications, a reassuring result given their age and
illness, said Axel Linke, professor of cardiology at the
University of Leipzig Heart Center in  Germany .  A review of 399 patients given Edwards’ Sapien device found
a 10 percent death rate within a month of treatment, with the
majority of survivors subsequently dying from non-cardiac
causes. The review from 2005 to 2009 is among the longest
on the durability of the valves and the patients’ fate.  “This technology works and evidence is accumulating that
it can be done safely and effectively,” said Murat Tuczu, an
interventional cardiologist and vice-chair of cardiovascular
medicine at the  Cleveland Clinic  in  Ohio . “For many patients,
they didn’t have any other options. We have to be careful in
monitoring these people.”  The reports provide a window into the technology that is
gaining popularity among heart doctors, even as the first
rigorous, controlled studies are only now providing information
about long-term safety and effectiveness.   About 200,000 Americans suffer from  narrowing  and stiffening 
of the aortic valve, the three-flapped spigot between the heart’s 
main pumping chamber and the  artery  that carries oxygen-rich 
blood to the body.  Potential $2.5 Billion Market  Edwards, based in  Irvine ,  California , and Minneapolis-based
Medtronic introduced the valves in  Europe  in 2007 based on early
indications of safety and split the $700 million market. The
U.S. market may be as much as $2.5 billion, said Jason Mills, an
analyst with Canaccord Adams Inc. in  San Francisco .  Edwards has U.S. regulatory approval for Sapien for
patients who can’t withstand open-heart surgery and is awaiting
a decision on broader use. The two-year findings from its study
of the device in high-risk surgery patients will be presented on
March 26.  Medtronic’s studies are expected to conclude next year and
the company forecasts approval in 2014.  “We have experience now for seven years with the valve,
and I haven’t seen a single case of deterioration in this
time,” Linke said of his work with Medtronic’s CoreValve “But
the experience is limited to a few hundred patients that I have
personally seen. We need information from a wide variety of
patients to get more information on how this valve works and if
it lasts as long as we are expecting.”  Doctors’ Experience  The differences in mortality rates may have stemmed from
the doctors’ experience with the valves that are threaded into
the heart via a catheter through the femoral artery or a small
slit in the chest. The study of the Edwards device was conducted
at six sites in  Canada  after the valves were first introduced,
while the Medtronic trial included only doctors who had
performed at least 40 previous implants.  The Canadian study also released today at the heart
association meeting shows the $30,000 valves appear durable and
function well at least for the first three to four years after
they are implanted, said Josep Rodes-Cabau, lead author and
director of the cardiac catheterization and interventional
laboratories at the Quebec Heart and Lung Institute.   The patients’ chronic health conditions other than 
 aortic stenosis  ultimately limit their benefits, he said.  Long-Term Stability  “The study is reassuring because it shows the valves are
stable over time,” with no structural failures or problems with
blood flow, he said. “But we should pay attention to the non-
cardiac disease. When they survive the intervention, what is
really behind the deaths of these patients is not cardiac
disease.”  After three years, 43 percent of patients treated with a
Sapien or a newer version called Sapien XT died, rising to 48
percent after four years, the study found. For those who
survived the first month, 67 percent subsequently died from  lung
disease ,  kidney failure , an erratic  heart rate , frailty or other
causes. About one-quarter died from  heart disease  and two
patients needed re-treatment for valve infections.  The CoreValve study, funded by Medtronic, examined patients
treated in a regular medical setting, rather than a controlled
clinical trial. Fewer than 8 percent of the healthiest patients
died after six months, compared with 17 percent of those with
severe symptoms, underscoring how important it is to select the
right patients, Linke said. Strokes, a feared side effect,
occurred in 3.4 percent of patients within six months.  Patients with the CoreValve experienced a quick and
dramatic improvement in symptoms, such as breathlessness, Linke
said. While 79 percent had moderate to severe symptoms of heart
failure before the surgery, just 13 percent were still
struggling after six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  