-- Merck Blood Thinner Stops Heart Attacks With Risk of Bleeding
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-03-28T20:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/merck-blood-thinner-stops-heart-attacks-with-risk-of-bleeding.html
(Corrects Vukhac’s gender in 11th paragraph of story
published March 24.)  A study of an experimental blood
thinner from  Merck & Co. (MRK)  showed that while the drug helped
thwart heart attacks it raised the risk of brain bleeding,
a side effect that could stymie its approval.  The three-year study of 26,449 patients who had heart
attack, stroke or leg artery disease, found those who got
Merck’s vorapaxar along with standard therapy were 13 percent
less likely to have another heart attack or die from
cardiovascular causes than those on standard treatment. More
patients on the drug also had serious bleeding, according to
data reported today at the  American College of Cardiology 
meeting in  Chicago .  The findings are unlikely to be good enough to get U.S.
marketing approval, said  Steven Nissen , a cardiologist at the
 Cleveland Clinic  who wasn’t involved in the study. New studies
are needed to prove vorapaxar can be used in some patients
without excess bleeding, he said.  “The results are disappointing,” said Nissen. “The
bottom line is it is extremely difficult to make the case that
the benefits exceed the risks here.”  In January 2011, Merck narrowed the scope of the trial to
stop testing the drug in stroke patients and halted another
vorapaxar trial entirely after doctors monitoring the results
found an increased risk of brain hemorrhage in those patients.
Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , later took a
$1.7 billion charge to write down the value of the drug.  Efficacy Goal  Merck Vice President Francis Plat, in an interview at the
meeting, called the company-funded vorapaxar study “positive”
because it achieved its efficacy goal of preventing heart
attacks and heart-related deaths. He said the company is
discussing with top cardiologists what role the new medicine
might play and which patient groups are likely to benefit.  Until those talks are done, “it is difficult for us to
anticipate any strategy in terms of filing” for regulatory
approval, he said.  David Morrow, a cardiologist at  Brigham & Women’s Hospital 
in  Boston  who led the study, said that the drug’s benefit was
compelling in the subset of 17,779 patients who had previous
heart attacks. In that group, vorapaxar reduced the risk of
heart attacks, strokes and cardiovascular death by 20 percent.  “There is potential for benefit in that group that clearly
outweighs the risk of bleeding,” Morrow said in a telephone
interview.  Blood Thinner Challenge  The findings illustrate how difficult it is for drugmakers
to come up with new blood thinners that work well on top of
standard therapy without excessive bleeding, Nissen said in a
phone interview. Heart patients typically take aspirin and also
often take the blood thinner  Plavix  from Sanofi and Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. to reduce future risk.  “Anything where there is significantly more bleeding is a
difficult sell for doctors,” said Kim Vukhac, an analyst at
Credit Agricole Securities in  New York , in a telephone interview
before the data was released. Investor “expectations are low”
for vorapaxar, she said.  The Merck study added vorapaxar to standard therapy to see
whether the drug safely provided greater protection from heart
attacks, strokes, and cardiovascular deaths. The study met this
primary goal.  The research showed that 148 fewer patients on vorapaxar
got heart attacks, strokes or died of cardiovascular disease, as
compared with those on placebo with the standard therapy,
according to results being published in the  New England Journal
of Medicine  in conjunction with the meeting.  The study also found 171 more patients on vorapaxar
experienced moderate to severe bleeding. Also, the rate of brain
bleeding doubled in the vorapaxar group. The brain bleeding risk
was highest in patients who had a previous stroke, according to
the results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth  in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  