-- Merkel’s CDU Faces Voters in State Ballot Too Close to Call
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-03-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/merkel-s-cdu-faces-voters-in-state-ballot-too-close-to-call.html
Voters in one of Germany’s most
indebted states go to the polls today in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s first electoral test since she coaxed European leaders
into a pact to limit budget deficits.  Saarland, a region governed by Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union  that borders France and Luxembourg, is holding
the first of three state votes in eight weeks that may give
indications of her chances of winning a third term in federal
elections due in  Europe ’s largest economy by the fall of 2013.  Polls suggest a dead heat in Saarland between her CDU and
the Social Democrats, the main opposition group, meaning the
election may produce a “grand coalition” of the two biggest
parties in the state and nationally. Merkel’s first government
from 2005 to 2009 was a grand coalition with the SPD. Polls
close at 6 p.m. Berlin time.  “Germans are consensus-oriented,” Manfred Guellner, head
of the Berlin-based Forsa polling company, said in a phone
interview. “It would be smart for both the  Christian Democrats 
and the SPD to get used to the idea” of a grand coalition.  Merkel’s approval ratings have risen this year to the
highest level since her re-election in 2009 as she pushed for
fiscal austerity across the euro area while swinging Germany
behind a second bailout for  Greece  to keep the currency union
from splintering. Leaders of 25 of the 27 European Union
countries signed the German-inspired fiscal pact on March 2.  FDP Slumps  Yet Merkel’s coalition ally, the Free Democratic Party,
has slumped from 14.6 percent in the last national election in
2009 to as low as 2 percent this year. Polls now suggest it
won’t win seats in the three state parliaments being chosen
through May.  “It doesn’t take much fantasy to see that every single
vote will count on Sunday,” Merkel told a Saarland election
rally in Dillingen on March 23. “Get up. Have breakfast. Go to
church if you want, but don’t go for a long hike past 6 p.m.”  With the FDP’s decline, a rerun of Merkel’s first-term
alliance with the Social Democrats is becoming more likely.
While Merkel hasn’t officially declared her candidacy, she is
 Germany ’s most popular politician and 53 percent of voting-age
Germans favor a grand coalition, according to an Infratest dimap
poll for ARD television published March 1.  Forty-four percent favored a government of Social Democrats
and Greens, the alliance that ran Germany between 1998 and 2005
under SPD Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder . Polls don’t show a
majority for such an alliance. The Feb. 27-28 poll of 1,004
people had a margin of error of as many as 3.1 percentage
points.  Saarland, a former coal-and-steel state of 2.6 million
people, is holding early elections after Annegret Kramp-
Karrenbauer, the CDU state premier, dumped the FDP in January
out of a government that also comprised the Greens. The state
still has a  steel industry , while coal is being phased out.  The region was Germany’s third most-indebted region on a per
capita basis at the end of 2010 after the city-states of Bremen
and Berlin, according to the Federal Statistics Office. The
jobless rate was 6.8 percent in February, compared with 6.2
percent for all of western Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  