-- Tesco, Coca-Cola to Cut Calories in U.K. Obesity Fight
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-03-24T12:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/tesco-coca-cola-pledge-to-cut-calories-in-u-k-obesity-fight.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and Asda,
the U.K. supermarket chain owned by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , have
pledged to cut portions and reformulate products as part of a
U.K. government drive to curb obesity.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company, and  Premier
Foods Plc (PFD) , owner of the Hovis bread and Bisto gravy brands, are
also among the 17 companies committing to reduce calories, the
U.K. Department of Health said in a  press release  today.  “This pledge is just the start of what must be a bigger,
broader commitment from the food industry,” Health Secretary
Andrew Lansley said in the statement. “Eating and drinking too
many calories is at the heart of the nation’s obesity problem.”  Coca-Cola Great Britain will invest 15 million pounds ($24
million) by 2014 to reformulate some of its soft drinks and cut
the average number of calories per liter by at least 30 percent,
the company said today in a press release on its  website . It
will also increase the marketing budget for its Diet Coke and
Coca-Cola Zero products by 25 percent, it said.  More than 60 percent of adults and a third of 10 and 11
year olds are overweight or obese in  England , the  Department of
Health  said in the statement. The plan is designed to reduce
consumption by 5 billion calories a day by reformulating
products, reviewing portion sizes, educating consumers and
boosting marketing of lower calorie options, it said.  ‘Encouraging Start’  “This is a very encouraging start,” Dr. Susan Jebb,
Cambridge, England-based head of diet and population health at
the government-funded Centre for Diet and Activity Research,
said in a statement. “I am impatient to make progress. I know
some other companies are already developing their plans, but we
need everyone, all companies -- from all sectors and all sizes -
- to step up and act for the good of the nation’s health.”  U.S. policy makers are also seeking to reduce an obesity
rate that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says
has more than doubled since 1980 to 72 million people. The
administration said Jan. 25 that school lunch counters will
start replacing breaded patties and canned fruit with fresh
tomatoes and chef salad while Michelle Obama has enlisted
companies including Wal-Mart to fight childhood obesity.  U.K.-based Premier Foods will reduce calories across one-
third of its portfolio by 2014 and provide consumers with lower
calorie choices in at least 30 percent of the company’s new
products as part of the initiative, it said in a statement on
its website today.  “Premier Foods calorie plans will focus on the company’s
power brands including Ambrosia, Batchelors, Hovis, Loyd
Grossman, Mr. Kipling and Sharwood’s,” the company said.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , WM Morrisons Plc,  J Sainsbury
Plc (SBRY) , Waitrose Ltd., Kerry Foods Ltd.,  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ,  Mars
Inc. (MMC) ,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ,  Unilever NV (UNA) ,  Whitbread Plc (WTB) ’s unit Beefeater,
Subway Restaurants and  Compass Group Plc (CPG)  have also signed the
initiative, according to the Department of Health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  