-- Europe Must Use Calm on Markets to Do Reforms, Asmussen Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-03-24T09:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/europe-must-use-calm-on-markets-to-do-reforms-asmussen-says-1-.html
European Central Bank council
member  Joerg Asmussen  said the region’s governments must make
use of the calm period in the markets created by the central
bank’s three-year loans.  “All countries of the  euro zone  have to do their
homework,” Asmussen told reporters in Saariselkae,  Finland ,
1,100 kilometers (684 miles) north of Helsinki. They have to
“do structural reforms, create jobs. This is true for all
countries.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB has lent banks 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion) for three years in two operations since
December, easing pressure on bond yields of peripheral
countries. The bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record-low of 1 percent on March 8. ECB’s actions buy time for
governments to balance budgets, reform economies and create jobs
to boost economic growth.  The ECB “has done its part, the governments must do
theirs,”  Erkki Liikanen , who heads the Bank of Finland and sits
on the ECB’s governing council, said in an interview on March
15. The 17-nation euro economy will contract 0.1 percent this
year and grow 1.1 percent in 2013, the central bank forecast on
March 8.  “Even if this crisis is a little bit calmer, we still
think it is needed to increase the European firewalls,”
Asmussen said.  He said he expects discussion on the firewalls today as
well as at the euro-area finance ministers’ meeting in
Copenhagen next week. “We need for all partners to be
involved,” Asmussen said.  Olli Rehn, European commissioner for economic and monetary
affairs, said there is no room for complacency or easing the
crisis-fighting stance. He said he is certain European leaders
will make decisions that increase confidence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  