-- Euro Leaders Need to Step Up Austerity, Finland’s PM Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-03-24T14:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/euro-leaders-need-to-step-up-austerity-finland-s-pm-says.html
European policy makers can’t rely
on the central bank to manage the region’s crisis and must now
follow with measures to cut debt and restore economic
confidence,  Finland ’s Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said.  “Crisis management can’t be outsourced to the central
bank,” Katainen said in an interview in Saariselkae, Finland.
“Member states have a couple of years to take austerity
measures to restore and strengthen credibility for when the
operations end.”  The  European Central Bank ’s 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of three-year loans to lenders since December were
“extremely necessary and successful,” helping avoid an acute
crisis and buying time for fiscal changes, he said.  The Frankfurt-based ECB’s actions have helped ease pressure
on bond yields of peripheral countries as the debt crisis has
entered its third year following bailouts of  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal. The central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record-low of 1 percent on March 8.  The ECB “has done its part, the governments must do
theirs,”  Erkki Liikanen , who heads the Bank of Finland and sits
on the ECB’s governing council, said in an interview on March
15. The 17-nation euro economy will contract 0.1 percent this
year and grow 1.1 percent in 2013, the central bank forecast on
March 8.  Market Calm  ECB council member Joerg Asmussen today said the region’s
governments must make use of the calm in the markets that was
created by the central bank’s three-year loans.  “All countries of the  euro zone  have to do their
homework,” he told reporters in Saariselkae. They have to “do
structural reforms, create jobs. This is true for all
countries.”  Katainen is hosting a seminar in Saariselkae, 1,100
kilometers (684 miles) north of Helsinki to brainstorm on
 Europe ’s role in the global economy and how to get the European
Union’s economy back on track after the debt crisis.  “Banks are in considerably better shape than they were,”
Katainen said. “The possibility of an acute banking crisis is
much smaller than it was a year ago or two years ago. Europe
probably still has excess capacity in the banking industry, but
systemically important banks are in much better condition.”  Policy makers attending the seminar north of the Arctic
Circle don’t plan a joint statement, the Finnish government
said.  “The crisis usually brings your perspective shorter than
should be necessary,” Katainen told reporters yesterday.
“Finally we have some time to look forward and talk about the
future of Europe and the economic development of the world.”  Other policy makers at the seminar are Olli Rehn, the
union’s economic affairs chief,  Pascal Lamy , who heads the  World
Trade Organization  and Valdis Dombrovskis, the prime minister of
Latvia.  “It’s not good that some in Europe contrast growth and
fiscal discipline,” Alexander Stubb, Finnish minister for
European affairs, told reporters yesterday. “They go hand in
hand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  