-- MF Global’s Corzine Ordered Funds Transferred, Memo Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-24T20:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/mf-global-s-corzine-ordered-funds-moved-to-jp-morgan-memo-says.html
Jon S. Corzine,  MF Global Holding
Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s chief executive officer, gave “direct instructions” to
transfer $200 million from a customer fund account to meet an
overdraft in a brokerage account with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
according to a memo written by congressional investigators.  Edith O’Brien, a treasurer for the firm, said in an e-mail
quoted in the memo that the transfer was “Per JC’s direct
instructions,” according to a copy of the memo obtained by
Bloomberg News yesterday. The e-mail, dated Oct. 28, was sent
three days before the company collapsed, the memo says. The memo
does not indicate whether that phrase was the full text of the
e-mail or an excerpt.  The account could have contained both client and company
funds, the memo notes. Whether the transferred funds were those
of the company, its clients or both is not known.  “If client funds were transferred at his direction, it
raises new questions,” Seth Berenzweig, managing partner at
Berenzweig Leonard LLP, a  law firm  in McLean,  Virginia , said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television. “This is a new storm
cloud that is now headed for  Jon Corzine  and it raises a lot of
issues.”  O’Brien’s internal e-mail was sent as the New York-based
broker found intraday credit lines limited by JPMorgan, the
firm’s clearing bank as well as one of its custodian banks for
segregated customer funds, according to the memo, which was
prepared for a March 28 House Financial Services subcommittee
hearing on the firm’s collapse. O’Brien is scheduled to testify
at the hearing after being subpoenaed.  ‘Funds Were Safe’  “Over the course of that week,  MF Global (MFGLQ) ’s financial
position deteriorated, but the firm represented to its
regulators and self-regulatory organizations that its customers’
segregated funds were safe,” said the memo, written by
Financial Services Committee staff and sent to lawmakers.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine, said in a
statement that Corzine “never gave any instruction to misuse
customer funds and never intended anyone at MF Global to misuse
customer funds.”  Vinay Mahajan, global treasurer of MF Global Holdings,
wrote an e-mail on Oct. 28 that JPMorgan was “holding up vital
business in the U.S. as a result” of the overdrawn account in
 London , which had to be “fully funded ASAP,” according to the
memo.  $200 Million Transfer  “On the afternoon of Friday, October 28, MF Global
transferred $200 million from a segregated customer account at
JPMC to cover a $175 million overdraft in one of MF Global’s
JPMC accounts in London,” the memo says. “Ms. O’Brien wrote in
an e-mail that the transfer was ‘Per JC’s [Jon Corzine’s] direct
instructions’.”  Barry Zubrow, JPMorgan’s chief risk officer, called Corzine
to seek assurances that the funds belonged to MF Global and not
customers. JPMorgan drafted a letter to be signed by O’Brien to
ensure that MF Global was complying with rules requiring
customers’ collateral to be segregated. The letter was not
returned to JPMorgan, the memo said.  Corzine, 65, in testimony in front of the House panel in
December, said he did not order any improper transfer of
customer funds. Corzine also testified that he never intended a
misuse of customer funds at MF Global, and that he doesn’t know
where client funds went.  ‘Never Intended’  “I never gave any instruction to misuse customer funds, I
never intended anyone at MF Global to misuse customer funds and
I don’t believe that anything I said could reasonably have been
interpreted as an instruction to misuse customer funds,”
Corzine told lawmakers in December.  In his statement, Goldberg said Corzine did not specify
which funds should be used to replenish the JPMorgan account.  “He never directed Ms. O’Brien or anyone else regarding
which account should be used to cure the overdrafts, and he
never directed that customer funds should be used for that
purpose,” Goldberg said. “Nor was he informed that customer
funds had been used for that purpose.”  The bankruptcy trustee overseeing the liquidation of the
company’s brokerage subsidiary has estimated a $1.6 billion
shortfall between customer claims and assets available.  Lawmakers and investigators from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission and
 Department of Justice  have been reviewing events leading up to
MF Global’s bankruptcy filing. Executives including Corzine, a
Democrat who served in the Senate from 2001 to 2006 and as
governor of  New Jersey  from 2006 to 2010, gave testimony on the
collapse at three congressional hearings last year. Corzine was
co-chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  before entering
politics.  Congressional Report  Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican and
chairman of the Financial Services oversight and investigations
subcommittee, is preparing a final report on his investigation
into the firm’s failure.  “One of the goals of our investigation is not only to find
out where the money went but to identify what went wrong in
order to prevent this from happening again,” Neugebauer said in
a statement.  O’Brien is scheduled to appear before lawmakers with
Christine Serwinski and Laurie Ferber, two other MF Global
executives named by Corzine as being involved in the
transaction, according to the memo. Henri Steenkamp , the firm’s
chief financial officer, is also scheduled to testify, as is a
representative from JPMorgan who has not yet been identified.  European Bet  MF Global and its brokerage sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy
after a $6.3 billion bet on the bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations prompted regulator concerns and a credit rating
downgrade. Corzine quit MF Global Nov. 4.  During his testimony, Corzine identified O’Brien as someone
with knowledge of a transfer of funds from customer accounts
before the firm sought  bankruptcy protection  Oct. 31.  Reid H. Weingarten, O’Brien’s lawyer, did not respond to a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  The memo’s account of the e-mail exchanges aligns with what
 Terrence Duffy , the executive chairman at  CME Group Inc. (CME) , told
lawmakers during a December congressional hearing. Auditors at
CME, which had authority to oversee MF Global, learned from an
employee of the brokerage that Corzine knew about the loans
involving a European affiliate, Duffy told committee members.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  