-- Fed Purchases of More Bonds Opposed by Two Regional Presidents
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n ,   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-24T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/fed-purchases-of-more-bonds-opposed-by-two-regional-presidents.html
Two Federal Reserve district bank
presidents said the strengthening  U.S. economy  is reducing the
need for additional monetary easing.  “As the U.S. economy continues to rebound and repair,”
additional steps “may create an overcommitment to ultra-easy
monetary policy,” St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said in
a speech yesterday in  Hong Kong . Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said in Washington that “we should hold the balance
sheet where it is for the time being and watch how the economy
evolves.”  The remarks from Lockhart and Bullard, who have never
dissented from a decision by the  Federal Open Market Committee ,
reflect broadening sentiment on the panel against further steps
to spur growth. The Fed has held  interest rates  near zero since
2008 and purchased $2.3 trillion in bonds to spur growth after
unemployment rose to as high as 10 percent in 2009. The jobless
rate is now 8.3 percent, and the economy has been expanding for
more than two years.  The Fed is hosting a two-day conference in Washington to
examine challenges for central bankers, including the use of
asset purchases to sustain liquidity during times of financial
turmoil. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  opened the gathering yesterday
by saying central bankers “have had to deploy a variety of new
tools and approaches to carry out their responsibilities
regarding monetary policy and the provision of liquidity, tools
about which we still have more to learn.”  That conference today features discussions including Fed
Vice Chairman Janet Yellen,  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King, Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and former
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet.  The Fed chairman yesterday didn’t indicate if he sees a
need for a new asset-purchase program.  Economy Expanded  The economy expanded at a 3 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, the fastest pace in more than a year, as
households spent more freely. Growth will probably slow to 2
percent this quarter, according to the median of 72 economists’
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey from March 9 to March 13.  About 1.2 million jobs were created in the past six months,
the most since the same period ended May 2006, Labor Department
figures show.  The Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures price index, rose 2.4 percent in the 12
months through January, above the central bank’s 2 percent
inflation goal. Expectations of inflation five to 10 years in
the future have also risen this year, according to a  Fed gauge ,
with traders expecting 2.73 percent inflation, up from 2.37
percent at the end of 2011.  Push Forward  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said he doesn’t believe the central bank wants to push
forward with more asset purchases, known as quantitative easing,
“given where the inflation data are.”  “If I am wrong, I think they would start signaling it in
speeches,” he said. “There are certainly plenty of
opportunities to do that.”  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist for Barclays Capital Inc.
and  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP
Paribas, also don’t see a prospect that the Fed will provide
more stimulus.  “There is little reason to ease further,” Maki said in an
interview at the Fed conference, entitled “Central Banking:
Before, During, and After the Crisis.” Fed officials are
unlikely to take the option off the table entirely as their
outlook might change if the economy deteriorates.  ‘Significantly Weaker’  “I would expect QE3 if the growth or employment data turn
significantly weaker,” he said, referring to a third round of
quantitative easing.  Coronado said more bond purchases “would require at least
a softening in the data,” and that “a moderation in the pace
of hiring combined with lackluster activity could do the
trick.”  “A pickup in global financial-market tensions could also
help tip the scales,” she said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.3 percent to
1,397.11 yesterday, bringing the gain for this year to 11
percent. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note dropped to 2.23
percent from 2.28 percent the day before.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley stopped short of voicing an opinion on the option of new
bond-buying in a March 19 speech. “Nothing has been decided,”
he said, adding that while economic reports have improved, it’s
“far too soon to conclude that we are out of the woods.”  As president of the New York Fed, Dudley holds a permanent
vote on monetary-policy decisions. The other Fed presidents
rotate voting on policy this year. Atlanta’s Lockhart holds a
vote this year, while Bullard votes next year.  Only Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  has favored new
stimulus in recent speeches.  “Clearly, more accommodation would be appropriate”
because currently “the  unemployment rate  is substantially above
reasonable measures of the natural rate,” Evans said in a March
22 speech in  Washington .  -- With assistance from  Steve Matthews  in Atlanta. Editors:
James Tyson, Christopher Wellisz  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  