-- Ferrari Renews Formula One Terms With CVC Before Possible IPO
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-03-24T12:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/ferrari-renews-formula-one-terms-with-cvc-before-possible-ipo.html
Ferrari SpA, Red Bull GmbH and
McLaren Group Ltd. agreed to stay in Formula One after this
season, strengthening the hand of owner CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. as it considers selling shares in the auto racing series.  Most of the 12 teams have agreed to remain after this
season, when existing terms expire, series Chief Executive
Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  told website Formula1.com. He didn’t
give details of terms or identify other teams.  CVC hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to explore a possible
sale of part of its 63.4 percent stake with  Singapore  as a
possible venue for an initial public offering that values the
series at more than $10 billion, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter. Ecclestone, 81, said in a March 20
interview he will remain as CEO under the plans.  Ferrari, the oldest existing team, defending champion Red
Bull and eight-time champion McLaren were the top-ranked teams
last season. According to a March 19 report by  Sky News , CVC had
offered Ferrari and Red Bull as much as $45 million to sign up
through 2020, and the Italian luxury carmaker may also get a
stake in the business.  The agreement was announced by Ecclestone today as teams
are competing at the Malaysian Grand Prix, the second event of
this year’s 20-race championship.  Under existing terms, teams share 50 percent of the sport’s
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.
The series has annual sales of 1.17 billion euros ($1.55
billion) and employs 200 people, according to the CVC website.  CVC, based in  London , bought Formula One in a leveraged
buyout in 2005 and 2006, using $2.5 billion of loans.  Other shareholders include the administrators of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., who hold 15.3 percent, and Ecclestone’s
former wife, Slavica, who owns 8.5 percent through Bambino
Holdings Ltd. Ecclestone has a 5.3 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  