-- Gilts Gain Most in Four Months on Signs Global Recovery Stalling
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-03-24T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/gilts-gain-most-in-four-months-on-signs-global-recovery-stalling.html
U.K. 10-year gilts rose this week,
with 10-year yields falling the most in four months, as signs
the global recovery is stalling fueled demand for safer assets.  Benchmark bonds snapped three weeks of losses as purchasing
managers indexes showed manufacturing in  Europe  and  China 
worsened last month, and U.K.  retail sales  declined in February.
Gilts also rallied as the Debt Management Office said it would
issue fewer securities next fiscal year and Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  maintained the government’s austerity
drive in the annual budget.  “The move in yields was driven more by external factors,
the PMI data in some of the countries in the  euro zone  was
particularly poor and gilts responded,” said  Sam Hill , a fixed-
income strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets
unit in London. “The consensus was surprised by the gilt remit
and that was supportive of gilts as well.”  The  yield  on the 10-year gilt fell 17 basis points, 0.17
percentage point, this week to 2.27 percent at 5 p.m.  London 
time yesterday, the biggest decline since the five days through
Nov. 4. The 4 percent bond due March 2022 gained 1.605, or 16.05
pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 115.285.  U.K. securities have returned 2.2 percent in the past six
months, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. They earned
17 percent last year, the most among 26 sovereign-debt indexes,
as investors sought a refuge from the euro-region’s debt crisis
and on signs the U.K. economic recovery was stalling.  House Prices  Nationwide Building Society will say next week that house
price gains slowed in March while a government report will
confirm the economy contracted in the fourth quarter, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The pound gained 0.2 percent this week to $1.5868, and
weakened 0.6 percent to 83.61 pence per euro.  Sterling has dropped 1.7 percent in the past year according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 1.4 percent and the
euro slid 4.8 percent.  An index of U.K. consumer sentiment dropped to 44 last
month from 47 in January,  Nationwide Building Society  said in an
e-mailed report yesterday. The country’s lenders granted 13
percent fewer loans for home purchases last month compared with
January, the British Bankers’ Association said in London.  A gauge of China’s leading indicators rose 0.8 percent in
February, after gaining 1.5 percent in January, the Conference
Board said in Beijing yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  