-- Lions Gate’s ‘Hunger Games’ Friday Sales Are 5th-Best Ever
-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-24T16:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/lions-gate-s-hunger-games-had-sales-of-68-3-million-on-friday.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s
“The Hunger Games” had $68.3 million in sales yesterday, the
fifth-best single-day gross ever, according to Hollywood.com Box
Office.  The movie is expected to earn $125 million to $135 million
this weekend, analysts estimated. Paul Dergarabedian, president
of Hollywood.com’s Box-Office division, said the film may have a
take of about $140 million for Friday through Sunday, which
would place it among the top five all-time opening weekends.  “Hunger Games” has been the subject of a marketing blitz
that included a collector’s edition of People magazine, an
eight-city mall tour by its stars and ticket giveaways on
websites from Access Hollywood to Yahoo.com.  The action thriller’s receipts yesterday included $19.7
million in midnight screenings,  Hollywood.com  said in an e-
mailed statement.  Imax Corp. (IMAX)  had $4.4 million in sales, its
biggest domestic opening this year.  The film, about children battling to the death on live
television, opened in 4,137 theaters,  Lions Gate  said.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows:
Part 2” holds the record for the best single-day opening, with
$91.1 million in July 2011. The same film posted the best-ever
opening weekend with $169.2 million.  Shares of Lions Gate, a Vancouver-based independent film
and TV studio, fell 2 cents to $14.53 in New York trading
yesterday. The stock is up 75 percent year to date.  For Related News and Information:
Lions Gates stories from Bloomberg:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  