-- James Murdoch Board Seats Dwindle Amid BSkyB Scrutiny
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-24T12:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/james-murdoch-board-seats-dwindle-amid-bskyb-scrutiny.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s  James Murdoch  resigned
as director from three additional boards as he’s cutting his
ties to the company’s U.K. newspaper division amid a phone-
hacking scandal.  Murdoch stepped down on March 21 from the board of Times
Newspapers Holdings, a body created by his father Rupert to
guarantee the Times’ editorial independence after he bought the
newspaper in 1981, according to a filing to the U.K.’s Companies
House. He also resigned as director of Newscorp Investments and
News International Publishers Limited, two units of News Corp.’s
U.K. division.  Murdoch has given up several influential positions as
lawmakers prepare a report about his role in a phone-hacking
scandal that rocked News Corp. and led to the closure of the
News of the World tabloid last year. Auction house  Sotheby’s (BID) 
said March 16 that Murdoch will leave its board. He resigned
from the board of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  in January and stepped
down as executive chairman of News Corp.’s U.K. unit News
International, which publishes the  Times newspaper , last month.  News Corp., based in New York, has said that Murdoch, 39,
will focus on his main job as deputy chief operating officer to
oversee the company’s international television operations.
Still, Murdoch also faces calls from investors to step down from
the board of News Corp. and as chairman of pay-TV company
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Miranda Higham, a London-based News Corp. spokeswoman,
declined to comment today. The Telegraph reported Murdoch’s
resignation from the three U.K. boards earlier.  Crucial Report  Murdoch’s future at BSkyB hinges on a report that U.K.
lawmakers are preparing on the phone-hacking scandal following
testimony he gave that has been contradicted by former
subordinates. The committee began its inquiry in July after
Murdoch said lawmakers had been misled about the extent of phone
hacking during a previous probe in 2009. It has questioned him
twice for the new report, once alongside his father Rupert, News
Corp.’s 81-year-old chief executive officer.  The U.K. lawmakers are behind schedule with their report,
as they debate how critical they can be ofMurdoch, two people
with knowledge of the panel’s discussions said in February.
There is no question of Murdoch escaping criticism completely,
the people said at the time. They said panel members are
unimpressed by his statements that he was ignorant about what
was going on at the News International unit.  Digging Deeper  On March 14, Murdoch told U.K. lawmakers he should have dug
deeper to uncover the phone hacking at the company’s U.K. unit,
which saw News Corp. journalists hack into the phones of
celebrities and a murdered schoolgirl.  “I could have asked more questions, requested more
documents and taken a more challenging and skeptical view of
what I was told,” Murdoch said.  Murdoch told lawmakers in November that News of the World
editor  Colin Myler  failed to tell him in 2008 that phone hacking
at the now-defunct tabloid was common. Myler and the newspaper’s
lawyer Tom Crone have repeatedly insisted that they discussed
evidence with Murdoch.  The phone-hacking scandal prompted News Corp. to close the
News of the World in July and drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.4
billion) bid for full control of BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-
TV company.  U.K. media regulator Ofcom will take parliament’s report
into consideration when evaluating whether James is “fit and
proper” to hold a broadcast license on behalf of BSkyB.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  