-- Kentucky Wins in NCAA Basketball; Kansas, North Carolina Advance
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-03-24T05:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/kentucky-wins-in-ncaa-basketball-kansas-north-carolina-advance.html
The University of  Kentucky  will
continue its quest for an eighth men’s national college
basketball title after defeating  Indiana  102-90 last night in
Atlanta.  The Wildcats (35-2) got 24 points and 10 rebounds from
Michael Kidd-Gilchrist to avenge the team’s only regular-season
loss and advance to tomorrow’s South Regional final against
Baylor. The Bears defeated Xavier 75-70 in yesterday’s other
South Regional game at the Georgia Dome.  Indiana, which defeated Kentucky 73-72 on a buzzer-beating
3-pointer in Bloomington, Indiana, in December, held a 43-39
lead with 2:53 remaining in the first half before giving up six
straight points. Kentucky, the top seed in the entire
tournament, never relinquished the lead again and outscored the
Hoosiers 52-43 in the second half.  “That was a fast-paced game,” Kentucky coach  John Calipari  said in a news conference. “I love coaching those
kinds of games. I can’t stand games in the 50s. We played very
aggressive.”  With 102 points, Kentucky scored one more point than
Louisville and Michigan State (57-44) combined to score a night
earlier.  Kentucky, which has seven national titles, hit 35 of 37
free throws in the game, including 17 in a row at one point. The
Wildcats are tied with  North Carolina  for the most wins in
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament history with
108.  In the Midwest Regional semifinals in  St. Louis , top-seeded
North Carolina needed overtime to avoid an upset and defeat
13th-seeded Ohio 73-65. North Carolina will play second-seeded
 Kansas , which defeated No. 11 North Carolina State 60-57 last
night, in the Midwest final.  Zeller’s Big Night  Tyler Zeller  had 20 points and 23 rebounds for the Tar
Heels (32-5), while Walter Offutt had 26 points before fouling
out in overtime for the Bobcats (29-8). Offutt scored on a layup
with 26 seconds remaining in regulation time to tie the game at
63-63 and then missed a free throw that would have completed a
three-point play and given Ohio the lead.  “As a leader on this team, I take responsibility that I
got to hit that free throw,” Offutt said in a news conference.
“It just feels terrible to kind of let my team down in that
sort of way.”  The Tar Heels were playing without starting point guard
Kendall Marshall, who fractured his right wrist earlier in the
tournament.  In yesterday’s first South Regional contest in Atlanta,
third-seeded Baylor opened with a 22-4 run and never trailed in
its win against No. 10 Xavier. Quincy Acy had 20 points and 15
rebounds to lead Baylor, giving the Bears a spot in the final 8.
It’s the second time in three years Baylor has reached the
regional final.  ‘A Tremendous Start’  Senior guard Tu Holloway led Xavier with 22 points in the
loss.  “We got out to a tremendous start,” Baylor coach Scott Drew said in a news conference. “We made it a little closer
than it needed to be with some careless turnovers, but any time
you win in March, it’s a good win.”  In today’s games, fourth-seeded Louisville (29-9) will face
No. 7 Florida (26-10) in the West Regional final. Louisville is
one of two Big East conference teams to reach the final eight,
along with Syracuse.  Syracuse (34-2), the top seed in the East Regional, will
play No. 2 Ohio State (30-7) in that regional’s final tonight in
 Boston .  To advance to the next round, Syracuse coach  Jim Boeheim 
said his team will need to be at its best to shut down a
Buckeyes team that defeated Duke 85-63 earlier this season.  “When they destroyed Duke, I thought, they’re going to be
there at the end of the year,” Boeheim said in a news
conference. “I think they’re the best team I’ve seen all year
long in terms of total makeup. It’s a very daunting task to play
them. We’ve prepared for it. We’re ready to play. I hope it’ll
be a great game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  