-- Kim Breaks Mold of World Bank Leaders From Finance, Bureaucracy
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-03-24T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/kim-breaks-mold-of-world-bank-leaders-from-finance-bureaucracy.html
Jim Yong Kim, the physician and
Dartmouth College president tapped by the U.S. to run the  World
Bank , represents a break from the financiers and bureaucrats who
have run the lender.  That may be a strength and a weakness, according to Uri Dadush, director of international economics at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in Washington and a former
World Bank director of economic policy.  “This is a very smart man and has many of the
characteristics that you would look for in a World Bank
president,” said Dadush. “He’s going to have a major challenge
to overcome a characterization as being too focused on the
health and education agenda and to develop a deep understanding
of the broader development agenda of the bank.”  Kim lacks experience in boosting economic growth, a key
part of the bank’s mission, Dadush said. At the same time, his
expertise in HIV/AIDS may help the bank improve its health
assistance, while his South Korean roots allow him to build
bridges with developing nations, said  Kevin Gallagher , an
associate professor of international relations at Boston
University.  Kim, 52, was nominated yesterday by President Barack Obama
to succeed Robert Zoellick, a former U.S. trade representative
whose five-year term ends in June. The U.S. is the biggest
shareholder in the Washington-based bank, which has always been
led by an American.  Development Professional  “It’s time for a development professional to lead the
world’s largest development agency,” Obama said yesterday at a
White House presentation with Kim at his side. “Jim has spent
more than two decades working to improve conditions in
 developing countries  around the world.”  Past World Bank presidents have included Robert McNamara,
who served as secretary of defense during the  Vietnam war , and
Paul Wolfowitz, a former deputy secretary of defense in the
administration of  George W. Bush . Wolfowitz resigned under
pressure in 2007 after giving his companion an unusually large
pay raise and promotion.  The Obama administration has “made a very astute move by
shifting gears -- quite radically,” said Ngaire Woods, dean of
the Blavatnik School of Government at the University of Oxford.
“Instead of selecting a Washington insider or a Wall Street
favorite, they’ve selected someone with strong credibility at
the technical level, as a health and research professional, as
well as in development.”  Born in Seoul  Born in  Seoul , Kim emigrated with his parents when he was
five years old and grew up in Muscatine,  Iowa . He graduated from
Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island, in 1982 and went
on to receive degrees in medicine and anthropology at  Harvard
University , in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  In 1987, while at Harvard, Kim co-founded Partners in
Health, a nonprofit organization that has opened clinics in
countries including Haiti and  Peru . Working for the group in
Peru, he helped develop a treatment program for multidrug-
resistant tuberculosis.  Kim was head of the Department of Global Health and Social
Medicine at Harvard Medical School and also served as director
of the World Health Organization’s HIV/AIDS department. He
received a MacArthur Foundation fellowship, popularly called a
“genius” award, in 2003. In 2009, he took over the presidency
at Dartmouth, in Hanover, New Hampshire.  While Kim may improve the bank’s work on health, he may
not be prepared for some of the demands that come with the job,
said  Boston University ’s Gallagher.  Private Capital  As private capital becomes more available, the bank is now
counting on the technical expertise that comes with its loans to
attract clients, for instance with a $75 million, 40-year loan
to  Bangladesh  this month to help improve the safety of the rural
water supply. The bank must also contend with rivals such as
 China , which is lending to developing nations as it seeks access
to raw materials in  Africa  and  Latin America .  “This is a world where we’ve got a food crisis, climate
change issues to deal with, oil-price volatility, these Chinese
banks and a crisis in finance, and you need someone who has a
grip on the issues and who can move comfortably in those
circles,” Gallagher said in a phone interview. “Running the
whole show is going to be a real learning curve and a real
legitimacy curve.”  The World Bank’s net lending to middle-income governments
was less than $8 billion in the financial year ended June 30. By
contrast, net private inflows to  emerging markets  reached $910
billion in 2011, according to estimates by the Washington-based
Institute of International Finance.  ‘Being Smarter’  The bank’s challenge now is “a question of being smarter
and a question of focusing on how to transmit development
knowledge in the most efficient way,” said Whitney Debevoise, a
former U.S. executive director at the World Bank.  Its private-sector unit, the International Finance
Corporation, offers advice on the business climate and takes
stakes in companies and financial institutions. Last month it
invested $5 million in a Pakistani rice exporter to help it
increase its production capacity.  This kind of assistance, along with trade and
infrastructure aid, is part of the bank’s growth agenda, which
is key to reducing poverty, said Dadush.  “Without growth you cannot develop health and education,”
Dadush said.  Last year, health and social projects accounted for almost
16 percent of total loans to governments last year, up from 9
percent in 2006. That compares with 14 percent for energy and
mining loans and 20 percent for transportation.  Rival Candidates  Kim faces rival candidacies from Nigerian Finance Minister
and former World Bank official Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as well as
from Jose Antonio Ocampo, Colombia’s former finance minister. A
decision by the board of the 10,000-employee bank is scheduled
by April 20.  Brazil  still hasn’t decided who it will support after it
nominated Ocampo, a government official said. Brazil put forth
Ocampo’s nomination yesterday at the request of the Dominican
Republic, whom it represents on the multilateral lender’s
executive board, said the official in Brasilia, who was not
authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  Kim “signals ‘global’ in an important way, without
diluting the U.S. grip on the job,” said Oxford’s Woods.  While he lacks broad experience, Kim has a pragmatic
approach that may keep large emerging countries interested in
the institution’s advice, said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at
the Brookings Institution in  Washington  and a former IMF
official.  “Even in those countries like China and  India , there is
still an enormous development challenge delivering health care
and education to the underserved masses,” Prasad said. Kim
could “could potentially kick-start a reorientation of the
World Bank,” which has been lacking a “sense of purpose,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 