-- Obama Visits DMZ as North Korea Prepares for Rocket Launch
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n ,   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-03-25T12:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/obama-arrives-in-south-korea-for-nuclear-summit-heads-for-dmz.html
President  Barack Obama  stared
across the demilitarized zone into  North Korea  today as Kim Jong Un’s regime prepared for a rocket launch that may help it put an
atomic weapon atop a missile.  As Obama returned to Seoul for bilateral meetings with
world leaders touching on Iran and North Korea’s nuclear
programs,  South Korea ’s Joint Chiefs of Staff said Kim’s
military had moved the fuselage of a long-range missile to an
indoor launch site in the nation’s northwest.  The president will meet Russian counterpart  Dmitry Medvedev 
and China’s Hu Jintao during his three-day visit to the South
Korean capital for a nuclear security summit that starts
tomorrow and is aimed at keeping fissile material out of the
hands of terrorists. Obama said  China  “is going to have to
act” to help stop Kim from developing nuclear weapons.  “North Korea will achieve nothing by threats or by
provocations,” the U.S. leader said at a press conference with
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak . Obama said looking into
North Korea was like viewing “a time warp” of a half-century of
missed progress.  There are 28,500 U.S. forces in South Korea, facing off
against a North Korean military that has placed 70 percent of
its ground forces within 90 kilometers of the DMZ, including
about 250 long-range artillery systems capable of striking the
Seoul area, according to U.S. Forces Korea.  “Long-range rocket launches are worrisome because they
could improve North Korea’s weapons technology, serving as a
chance to test missile systems that can carry nuclear warheads,”
said Koh Yu Hwan, a professor of North Korean studies at  Dongguk
University  in Seoul.  War Games  Obama met Leeat the presidential Blue House less than two
weeks after the two nations’ free-trade pact came into effect
and as their militaries continue war games aimed at deterring
any aggression from the regime in Pyongyang.  “The contrast between South Korea and North Korea could not
be clearer,” Obama told troops at Camp Bonifas on the edge of
the DMZ. “Both in terms of freedom but also in terms of
prosperity.”  The president stopped for about 10 minutes at Observation
Post Ouellette, within 100 yards (90 meters) of the demarcation
line that was drawn at the end of the  Korean War  in 1953. U.S.
and South Korean troops make foot patrols from the post, which
has four guard towers and underground bunkers.  Guard Posts  Obama gazed through binoculars into North  Korea , where
guard posts, the industrial complex at Gaeseong and sparsely
vegetated hillsides and fields are visible from Ouellette. South
Korean manufacturers employ North Korean workers at the Gaeseong
complex, which has kept running even as political tensions rise.  A North Korean flag flew at half mast in the distance as
the totalitarian regime today marked 100 days since the death of
 Kim Jong Il .  Obama and Lee said they weren’t prepared to make strategic
assessments of Kim Jong Un while the U.S. President added that
North Korea’s long-term objectives weren’t clear and it was
difficult to see “who’s calling the shots” in the country.  North Korea is not a participant in the two-day Nuclear
Security Summit in  Seoul . It described the event as a platform
for an “international smear campaign” against it, according to
a statement on March 23 carried by the official Korean Central
News Agency.  Trade Partners  South Korea was the U.S.’s seventh-largest goods trading
partner, with $88 billion in total goods trade for 2010,
according to the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative.  The free-trade agreement between the two nations is the
biggest for the U.S. in almost two decades. It will cut about 80
percent of tariffs between them and may increase U.S. exports as
much as $10.9 billion in the first year it’s in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission.  This is Obama’s third visit to South Korea since taking
office in 2009. Previous U.S. presidents to visit the DMZ were
 Ronald Reagan ,  Bill Clinton  and  George W. Bush .  He is also using his meeting with world leaders to ratchet
up economic pressure on  Iran  in an effort to persuade it to
abandon any illicit part of its nuclear program.  The U.S.,  Europe  and  Israel  have accused Iran of seeking
the capability to build a nuclear weapon. Iran says its program
is for civilian energy and medical research.  Aid Deal  North Korea’s announcement of a mid-April rocket launch
will make it difficult for the U.S. to move forward with a Feb.
29 U.S. aid deal and broader efforts to get the regime back to
negotiations on its nuclear weapons program, Obama said.  It had agreed to halt nuclear and missile tests and the U.S.
was to begin providing 240,000 metric tons of food aid.  The planned rocket launch is designed to put a satellite
into orbit and is “an issue quite different” from the Feb. 29
agreement, an unidentified spokesman for the North Korean
Foreign Ministry said in a statement on KCNA on March 23.  North Korea will “inevitably” be compelled to take
countermeasures against “any sinister attempt” to hinder its
planned rocket launch, the spokesman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman at the DMZ at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Seoul at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  