-- Hong Kong’s Leung Leads Election With 670 Votes, Cable TV Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-03-25T04:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/hong-kong-to-pick-leader-as-wealth-gap-fuels-public-discontent.html
Leung Chun-ying, a former
government adviser, garnered 670 votes in the city’s chief
executive election today, according to  Cable Television .  He leads Tang, a former chief secretary, who got 271,
according to the report. Democratic Party lawmaker Albert Ho
trails with about 75 votes. A 1,193-member election committee
comprising of businessmen, lawmakers and academics voted today.  The next chief executive will be the last to be chosen by a
narrow group in the former British colony, with China having
pledged to introduce universal suffrage in 2017. The winner will
inherit a city with the biggest wealth gap in Asia, spawned by
an influx of money from mainland China that has helped make  Hong
Kong  the world’s most  expensive place  to buy a home.  “Whoever becomes the next chief executive will have a
challenging task of addressing the wealth gap,” said  William Fung , executive deputy chairman of retailer  Li & Fung Ltd. (494)  “The
next leader will need to address the housing problem, the
affordability issues as well as bringing sustainable economic
growth to Hong Kong.”  Since the handover in 1997, median monthly household income
has remained unchanged at HK$20,000 ($2,575), while the economy
grew 62 percent. London-based  Savills Plc (SVS)  said the price of an
apartment in Hong Kong is almost two times higher than in
London, which placed second on the property broker’s list of
most expensive places to buy a home.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  