-- PDVSA Agrees to Pay Williams, Exterran $420 Million
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-03-24T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/pdvsa-agrees-to-pay-williams-exterran-420-million.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the
state oil company, said it agreed to compensate  Williams Cos
Inc. (WMB)  and  Exterran Holdings Inc. (EXH)  for assets nationalized in 2009.  PDVSA, as the Caracas-based company is known, will pay the
companies a total of $420 million,  Rafael Ramirez , president of
the state oil producer, told reporters yesterday in Sucre state.
PDVSA will pay 40 percent of the total in cash and the remaining
amount in equal parts over four years, according to an e-mailed
statement.  Williams, based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , and Houston-based
Exterran, operated natural-gas compression and injection
facilities in  Venezuela .  PDVSA and the U.S. energy companies also signed an
agreement yesterday to suspend arbitration claims with the World
Bank’s International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Disputes that were filed to seek compensation for their assets,
according to the statement.  “With this, those claims at the ICSID are over,” Ramirez
said, referring to the World Bank court. “They sought $1.2
billion, that was their goal.”  “With the closing of this operation, PDVSA and the
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela show their willingness to reach
friendly agreements with foreign investors willing to accept
fair compensation as a result of nationalizations,” PDVSA said
in the statement.  Nationalization Plan  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  seized the plants in 2009
as part of a broader nationalization of the industry that began
in 2007, when  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  abandoned the
South American country after refusing to accept a change of
contractual terms. Chavez settled an investment dispute with
Mexican cement maker Cemex SAB on Dec. 1.  PDVSA last month paid Exxon $250.9 million for those assets
seized in 2007, settling a $750 million net judgement issued by
the New York-based International Chamber of Commerce last year.
The ICSID, as the World Bank court is known, is also expected to
rule on the case. Venezuela has more than 15 pending cases in
the ICSID.  Exxon, the world’s largest oil company by market value,
originally sought to freeze $12 billion of PDVSA assets as
compensation for the nationalization of the Cerro Negro heavy-
crude project in the Orinoco belt. The ICC, as the arbitration
court is known, said PDVSA could pay the remainder of the award
with $300 million in frozen funds and $191 million of Exxon debt
that PDVSA said it would cancel.  Jeff Pounds, a Williams spokesman, said he wasn’t
immediately able to comment when reached by telephone. Susan
Moore, an Exterran spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to a
voice mail and e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  