-- Pettitte to Testify at Steroids Perjury Retrial of Clemens
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-03-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/pettitte-to-testify-at-clemens-s-steroids-perjury-retrial.html
Andy Pettitte , the former All-Star
pitcher who signed a minor league contract after a one-season
retirement, will testify at the retrial of former New York
Yankees teammate  Roger Clemens .  “Andy Pettitte will testify about his own use of growth
hormone, including his use with the assistance of”  Brian
McNamee , federal prosecutors said yesterday in a supplemental
trial memorandum filed in federal court in  Washington . McNamee
is a former trainer for Clemens, who is accused of lying to
Congress about his use of steroids.  Clemens, 49, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury in connection with a congressional probe of ballplayers’
alleged use of performance-enhancing drugs.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  last year declared a
mistrial after prosecutors violated a court order when they
showed the jury a video of a 2008 congressional hearing in which
Pettitte’s wife was discussed. Walton had told the government
not to refer to Laura Pettitte or to an affidavit she gave
Congress.  At the start of last year’s trial, prosecutors said
Pettitte would testify about his close relationship with Clemens
and how Clemens told him in 1999 or 2000 that he had used human
growth hormone. Clemens told Congress that Pettitte
“misremembered” the conversation.  Clemens’s Lawyer  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, didn’t immediately
return a call after regular business hours yesterday seeking
comment on the government’s filing.  Pettitte signed a minor-league contract March 17 with the
Yankees. The one-year deal includes an invitation to the Major
League Baseball team’s spring training, the Yankees said in a
statement.  Pettitte, 39, said in February 2011 that he decided to end
his 16-year major league career. Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said the left-hander approached him during the off
season about possibly returning.  Pettitte helped the Yankees win five World Series titles in
13 seasons, setting a record with 19 postseason victories. He
was an All-Star in 2010 before a groin injury limited his
activity during the second half of that season.  Pettitte has a 240-138 career record and a 3.88 earned run
average, twice winning 20 games in a season. His 203 wins for
the Yankees rank him third in franchise history, behind  Whitey
Ford  (236) and Red Ruffing (231). He went 11-3 with a 3.83 ERA
in 2010.  Pettitte has said he used human growth hormone, a banned
strength builder, to help recover from injuries.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 