-- Pope Criticizes Mexico Violence and Marxism as Tour Begins
-- B y   P h i l i p   S a n d e r s
-- 2012-03-25T02:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/pope-condemns-mexico-violence-criticizes-marxism-as-tour-begins.html
Pope Benedict XVI  began a weeklong
visit to Latin America yesterday denouncing the drug war that
has racked Mexico and calling on Cuba’s leadership to find
alternatives to Marxism.  Benedict, 84, said it was an “idolatry of money” that was
fueling the violence in Mexico. He was speaking to reporters on
the plane before arriving in Mexico.  The pope was met at the airport of Guanajuato state by
President Felipe Calderon, the man who ordered troops onto the
street to combat the drug cartels in 2006, triggering a wave of
violence that has cost more than 47,000 lives.  As he walked off the plane, hundreds of people wearing
white baseball caps emblazoned with Benedict’s name welcomed him
with shouts of “Benerito.” He later greeted children who lined
up to shake his hand and receive a blessing before driving about
30 kilometers (19 miles) to his residence along streets packed
with well-wishers.  “ Mexico  has suffered, as your saintliness knows, savage
and stark violence of criminals,” Calderon said on greeting the
pope.  Benedict lay the blame for the drugs war on a moral vacuum
created by the unbridled pursuit of wealth.  The “great responsibility of the church is to educate the
conscience, teach moral responsibility and strip off the mask of
the idolatry of money that enslaves mankind,” the pope told
reporters on the plane.  Speaking to children in downtown Guanajuato today, Benedict
urged Mexicans to protect their children, “so that their smile
can never fade.”  ‘Marxist Ideology’  The pope will spend three days in Guanajuato state. He
won’t visit the country’s capital city in order to avoid its
high altitude, according to Vatican officials. Mexico City
decriminalized abortion in 2007 and legalized same-sex marriage
and adoption in 2009.  On March 26, the Pope will move onto Cuba, where the
Catholic Church has been pushing for greater spiritual, economic
and political freedoms.  Is is “evident that Marxist ideology as it was conceived
no longer responds to reality,” Benedict told reporters
yesterday. Cubans must “find new models, with patience, and in
a constructive way.”  He went on to say the church wants to promote dialogue on
the communist island to “avoid trauma and to help bring about a
just and fraternal society.”  Fine Line  The visit, the second by a pope in 14 years, is timed to
celebrate the 400th anniversary of the appearance of the Virgin
of Charity of Cobre, the patron of Cuba. State-run media have
devoted full pages to the trip, citing various statements by
former Cuban President  Fidel Castro  to show that difficulties
with the Catholic Church have been overcome.  The pope “will be welcomed by believers and non-believers
alike,” Cuban Foreign Minister Bruno Rodriguez told a press
conference in  Havana  yesterday. “Those who try to obstruct the
event will fail.”  The church has had to tread a fine line in Cuba between the
government and dissidents.  Catholic leaders called in the police to evict 13
demonstrators from a church in Havana on March 16, with a
spokesman for the local Archdiocese, Orland Marquez, calling the
protest “illegitimate and irresponsible.” The protesters had
requested a meeting with the pope.  ‘Deep Convictions’  Asked about Pope Benedict’s comments on Marxism, Rodriguez
said the government respects “all opinions. We believe the
exchange of ideas is useful. Our people have deep convictions,
developed over our history that has produced many martyrs in the
fight for independence.”  The pope’s visit may bolster a religious minority that’s
seen its influence grow since  Raul Castro  assumed the presidency
in 2008 from his brother, Fidel.  Cuban Cardinal Jaime Ortega, who was detained in the 1960s
for his religious sermons, told a national audience this month
that Benedict’s visit would revive faith on the island, where
about half the population classify themselves as Catholic,
according to surveys by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public
Life.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Sanders in London at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  