-- Treasuries Rise for Fourth Day on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-03-24T04:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/treasuries-rise-for-fourth-day-on-global-growth-concern.html
Treasury (YCGT0025)  10-year note yields
dropped the most since January as slowing growth in China and
 Europe  and an uneven recovery in the American housing market
rekindled the refuge appeal of U.S. government securities.  Yields on the benchmark notes declined from the almost five-
month high reached after the  Federal Reserve  upgraded its
economic outlook last week, prompting traders to unwind bets for
more monetary stimulus. Treasuries rallied even the U.S.
prepared to auction $99 billion in two-, five- and seven-year
securities next week.  “We continue to hear that we have turned the corner and we
are starting to get a lot of upbeat data, but with Europe and a
possible slowdown in China hanging over our heads, it tempers
some of the optimism,” said Paul Montaquila in  San Ramon ,
 California , head of fixed-income trading at Bank of the West.
“We’ve seen a bit of an overreaction in the sell-off.”  Yields on  10-year notes  declined six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, the most in a week since Jan. 27, to 2.23
percent in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
They gained 27 basis points the previous week. The 2 percent
securities due in February 2022 rose 17/32, or $5.31 per $1,000
face amount, to 97 30/32.  Ten-year yields are still below 2011’s high of 3.77
percent. They’ll increase to 2.53 percent by year-end, according
to the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies, with the most recent projections given the
heaviest weightings.  Below Moving Average  Thirty-year bond yields slid 10 basis points this week, the
most since Jan. 13, to 3.31 percent. They dropped below their
 200-day moving average  of 3.3343 percent yesterday, indicating
this month’s slump in bond prices may be drawing to a close,
after rising above the average on March 14.  “That the breaking the 200-day moving average didn’t
propel us to sell off further is signaling a rejection of the
rising yield trend,” said  David Ader , head of U.S. government-
bond strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“The market has readjusted the range in the recent steep
selloff, and now the market is pausing to reinvestigate.”  The  yield difference  between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities shrank for the first week since
the five days ended March 2 as investors bet surging  oil prices 
will weigh on growth rather than fuel inflation. The spread,
which indicates traders’ outlook for annual consumer-price
increases over the next decade, was 2.37 percent yesterday after
reaching a seven-month high of 2.45 percent on March 20.  Reversed Climb  This week’s drop in Treasury 10-year yields reversed a
 nine-day climb , the longest run of increases since 2006, as the
Fed on March 13 raised its assessment of the economy. The
improved outlook reduced bets the central bank will buy more
debt under quantitative easing and fueled investor appetite for
riskier assets.  “Clearly yields moved on the idea we were closer to the
end of accommodative policy, but that position is ahead of
itself,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at the
broker-dealer BTIG LLC in  New York . “Growth concerns are re-
emerging. For the moment, people as less sure that the Fed is on
the way out.”  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two
rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to
spur growth. It reiterated on March 13 a pledge to keep  interest
rates  at virtually zero through at least late 2014.  Forward markets for overnight index swaps, whose rate shows
what traders expect the federal-funds effective rate to average
over the life of the contract, signaled a quarter-percentage
advance around October 2013 to November 2013, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg as of yesterday. Last week, traders were
pricing in an increase in September to October of that year.  More Expensive  Valuation measures show government debt has become more
expensive. The term premium, a model created by economists at
the Fed, increased to negative 0.39 percent yesterday after
reaching negative 0.26 percent on March 19, the least expensive
since October. A negative reading indicates investors are
willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  Treasuries extended an advance yesterday after a Commerce
Department report showed sales of  new homes  in the U.S. dropped
in February for a second month. They fell 1.6 percent to a
313,000 annual pace, the slowest since October, from a 318,000
rate in January, department figures showed. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey was for an increase to 325,000.  China, Euro Region  The Conference Board said in Beijing its leading economic
index for  China , the world’s second-biggest economy, rose 0.8
percent last month to 227.2 in a preliminary reading. That
compared with a 1.5 percent gain in January.  Treasuries also rose as London-based Markit Economics said
on March 22 in an initial estimate that a euro-area composite
index based on a survey of purchasing managers in services and
manufacturing dropped to 48.7 this month from 49.3 in February.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists was for
a gain to 49.6. A reading below 50 shows contraction.  German  10-year bunds  advanced as investors sought safety,
pushing the yields down 19 basis points for the week to 1.87
percent. The  yield difference  between bunds and 10-year
Treasuries yesterday matched the widest in more than a year, 37
basis points, the most since February 2011.  “It’s impossible to stay insulated against any other
slowdown in the rest of the world,” said  Michael Franzese ,
managing director and head of Treasury trading at Wunderlich
Securities Inc. in New York. “That bodes well for bonds.”  Crude oil surpassed $108 a barrel yesterday for the first
time in four days, raising concern it may weigh on economic
growth. The average price over the past decade is $65 a barrel.  Note Auctions  The Treasury will auction $99 billion in notes next week:
$35 billion of two-year securities on March 27, the same amount
of five-year debt on the following day and $29 billion of seven-
year notes on March 29. The amounts are the same as the last
time the government sold the securities, in February.  The U.S. drew a record low  negative yield  March 22 at a
sale of $13 billion of 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities. The offering yielded negative 0.089 percent, the
second sale of 10-year inflation-linked notes in a row at which
it was less than zero.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  