-- Trichet Says Central Banks Must Act Fast, Communicate in
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-03-24T18:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/trichet-says-central-banks-must-act-fast-communicate-in.html
Jean-Claude Trichet , the former
president of the  European Central Bank , said that central banks
using unconventional policies during crises must act fast and
communicate clearly with banks and other nations.  “You have to be commensurate with the degree of
dislocation and disruption of markets that you have to
counter,” Trichet said today at a Federal Reserve  conference  in
 Washington . “It calls of course for a diagnosis which would be
as lucid as possible and very often a quick and expeditious
decision with constant follow-ups.”  Using unorthodox policy also requires having “a collective
collegial message coming from the central bank” to other
nations around the world, and sending clear signals to the
banking system, Trichet said.  “We have to be sure that we send all the appropriate
messages to the financial sector itself and the commercial banks
in particular to urge them to address resolutely the medium-term
recapitalization and balance-sheet repair,” he said.  Trichet is chairman of the  Group of Thirty , a panel of
former central bankers, finance ministers and academics. He
retired from the top job at the Frankfurt-based central bank
after his eight-year term ended in October. He was succeeded by
 Mario Draghi .  After taking unorthodox policy steps, central banks need to
“communicate to all other partners of the world, namely the
countries themselves, the G20 and the financial stability board,
that they have to do the hard job which is necessary to put the
house in order,” Trichet said to reporters after his speech.  Other Partners  Policy makers can’t believe that because they “have done
this nonstandard measure that they can rest and wait quietly and
not do the job,” he said. “That is, for me, extremely
important, that that message is sent by the community of the
central bank to the other partners, namely countries on one hand
and the financial sector on the other.”  Trichet spoke on the second day of the Fed’s conference on
“Central Banking: Before, During and After the Crisis.” The
two-day gathering involves policy makers from the U.K.,  Japan 
and other nations and focuses on topics including new policy
tools for fueling economic growth and challenges for central
bankers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  