-- S. Korea Welcomes Obama’s Nomination of Kim for World Bank
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-03-24T07:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/s-korea-welcomes-obama-s-nomination-of-kim-for-world-bank-1-.html
The South Korean government
welcomed President  Barack Obama ’s nomination of Dartmouth
College president Jim Yong Kim, a Seoul-born U.S. citizen, to
become the next president of the World Bank, the global lender
that seeks to reduce poverty.  South Korean President Lee Myung Bak’s office “highly
appreciates” the nomination, which will “help the overseas
Korean community,” presidential spokesman Park Jeong Ha said
today in a statement.  Kim, 52, who has served as Dartmouth College president
since 2009, moved with his family to the U.S. when he was five.
He graduated from Brown University in 1982 and in 1991, earned
his M.D. from  Harvard University , where he later led its
department of Global Health and Social Medicine.  Kim received a MacArthur Foundation fellowship, popularly
called a “genius award,” in 2003. He also served as director
of the  World Health Organization ’s HIV/AIDS department, where he
focused on initiatives to help developing countries improve
their treatment, prevention and care programs.  “Kim is the best man to fulfill the duty as the president
of the World Bank to reform the organization and continue the
fight against poverty based on his vast experience in
international health care and development,” Bahk Jae Wan, the
South Korean minister of strategy and finance, said in an e-
mailed statement dated yesterday.  Three Candidates  Jose Antonio Ocampo, a Colombian national and a professor
at  Columbia University  in  New York , and Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala,
Nigeria’s finance minister, are the two other nominees who will
be considered for the president’s post, the  World Bank ’s board
of executive directors said in a statement yesterday.  The board will make the final selection during a meeting on
April 20. Kim is expected to secure the post, which has always
been led by an American. He would succeed Robert Zoellick, a
former U.S. trade representative whose term ends in June.  The U.S. customarily makes the appointment as the biggest
shareholder in the Washington-based bank.  Koreans who attended Dartmouth College see the nomination
as “a great honor,” which at the same time is a loss for their
alma mater, said  Michael Kim , president of the Dartmouth Club of
 Korea . “This is a great opportunity and everyone is happy for
him but we are also sad that he’s leaving Dartmouth only after a
few years.”  College graduates who have met him have described the World
Bank candidate as impressive and “very dynamic” with a clear
vision for the college, said Kim, a Korean-American professor of
colonial Korean history at Yonsei University in  Seoul .  “Jim Kim is a rarity among Korean-Americans in that they
are normally in professional careers as lawyers, bankers,
doctors and engineers, whereas he took an alternative path of
public service,” he said. “From that perspective he’s a real
path breaker.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  