-- Santorum Campaigns in Wisconsin as Louisianans Vote
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-24T20:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/santorum-woos-wisconsin-republicans-as-votes-cast-in-loui.html
As voters went to the polls in
Louisiana,  Rick Santorum  told Wisconsin Republicans that  Mitt Romney  is an inconsistent conservative who shouldn’t be trusted
with their party’s presidential nomination.  “My public policy isn’t written on an Etch A Sketch,” he
said today in Milwaukee. “It’s written on my heart because I’m
a conservative.”  The comment, made after his daughter handed him the red
children’s toy that allows drawings to be easily erased,
followed a statement earlier this week by one of Romney’s top
aides on national television that suggested his candidate will
get a fresh start on policy positions if he wins the nomination.  “You hit a reset button for the fall campaign,”  Eric Fehrnstrom  told  CNN  on March 21. “Everything changes. It’s
almost like an Etch A Sketch. You can kind of shake it up and we
start all over again.”  Santorum has seized on the statement ever since, including
at his appearance today at a forum hosted by Americans for
Prosperity, an organization aligned with the Tea Party movement
and its opposition to federal spending and taxes.  “When people vote for president, they want to vote for
someone they trust, someone who’s authentic, someone who won’t
say anything to get elected,” he said.  Next Contests  Wisconsin ’s April 3 primary and primaries the same day in
Maryland and  Washington , D.C., will be the next contests in the
fight for the Republican presidential nomination.  With more rural and working-class voters, Wisconsin offers
a more favorable demographic mix for Santorum than Illinois,
where Romney beat him by 12 percentage points on March 20.  Santorum, 53, was scheduled to campaign in Wisconsin for
the rest of the weekend, while Romney is taking the weekend off
from the campaign trail.  “Wisconsin is going to be shaping up to maybe be the
turning point in this race,” Santorum said. “I suspect that
Wisconsin may be the inflection point.”  Santorum mocked Romney’s wealth and experience as a private
equity executive.  “We need someone on the Republican ticket who’s not a
financier from  Wall Street ,” he said.  Governor Walker Recall  The former U.S. senator from Pennsylvania told those
gathered at the forum near Milwaukee’s airport that he also
supports the state’s Republican governor,  Scott Walker , who is
facing a recall election, tentatively set for June 5, that was
triggered by anger over anti-union legislation he backed last
year.  “Thank you for electing your great and courageous governor
and standing behind him,” Santorum said.  Polls have shown Santorum with the advantage in Louisiana,
propelled by evangelical Christians who have backed his bid.
Voting in that state ends at 9 p.m. Eastern Time.  There are 20 delegates at stake today in Louisiana’s
contest and they will be awarded proportionally among candidates
that earn more than 25 percent of the vote.  Santorum told reporters in  Milwaukee  that he expects to do
“really, really well” in Louisiana.  At stake in Wisconsin are 42 delegates. The statewide
winner will get 18 delegates and the rest will be awarded on a
winner-take-all basis based on the outcome in each of the
state’s eight congressional districts.  Romney Ahead  Before the voting in Louisiana, Romney had 563 of the 1,144
delegates needed to win the nomination, followed by Santorum at
263, according to estimates from the  Associated Press . Former
U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  has 135, while Representative
 Ron Paul  of  Texas  has 50, the AP’s tally shows.  Santorum told reporters he plans to spend at least four
additional days in Wisconsin between now and the election and
that he would like a one-on-one debate with the former
Massachusetts governor.  Romney, 65, and his allies are so far dominating broadcast
television advertising in Wisconsin, according to New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  Restore Our Future, a political action committee backing
Romney, had spent an estimated $536,820 through March 22 to air
ads 1,277 times on stations in the state, CMAG data shows.
Santorum and a political action committee backing him had yet to
run any ads on broadcast television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Milwaukee, Wisconsin at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  