-- Shiller Praises Finance, Soros Sees ‘Trap’: Top Business Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-03-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/shiller-praises-finance-soros-sees-trap-top-business-books.html
Yale economist Robert Shiller
praises finance and defends  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , while
 George Soros  urges Angela Merkel not to hurl Europe into
“deflationary debt trap” in two of our favorite business books
of late. Here’s a list of recommended titles.  “Adapt” by  Tim Harford  (Farrar, Straus & Giroux/Little,
Brown). We all struggle to accept our failures and cut our
losses. Yet admitting our mistakes holds a key to solving
intractable problems, says Harford, who writes the Undercover
Economist column for the Financial Times. “Success,” he
argues, “always starts with failure.”  “Are You Smart Enough to Work at  Google (GOOG) ?” by William Poundstone (Little, Brown). A guide to brain-bending interview
questions asked at Google and other innovative companies. “You
are shrunk to the height of a nickel and thrown into a
blender,” one begins. What do you do in the 60 seconds before
the blades begin whirring?  “Boomerang” by  Michael Lewis  (Allen Lane/Norton). The
author of “ Liar’s Poker ” and “The Big Short” returns with a
collection of writings on his journeys through “the New Third
World,” from Iceland and Ireland to California.  “Confidence Men” by Ron Suskind (Harper). An inside look
at how  Barack Obama  came under the spell of  Timothy Geithner  and
 Lawrence Summers , “two men whose actions had contributed to the
very financial disaster they were hired to solve.”  “Demystifying the Chinese Economy” by Justin Yifu Lin
(Cambridge). A patriotic yet pragmatic look at how China notched
up average annual  growth  of 9.9 percent for three decades.  “Exile on  Wall Street ” by Mike Mayo (Wiley). Mayo, an
old-school bank analyst, chronicles his battle to change the
status quo on Wall Street.  “Extreme Money” by Satyajit Das (FT Press). An
idiosyncratic yet withering analysis of how 30 years of
financial alchemy and excessive credit plunged us into the Great
Recession.  “Fatal Risk” by Roddy Boyd (Wiley). An engaging
reconstruction of how  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
committed “corporate suicide.”  “Finance and the Good Society” by Robert J. Shiller
(Princeton). The influential Yale University economist argues
that finance, for all its manifest failings of late, remains a
force for good in society. It’s wrong to assume, he says, that
Goldman executives -- whatever their misbehavior may have been -
- have an incentive to “attack and subjugate” people.  “Financial Turmoil in Europe and the United States” by
George Soros (PublicAffairs). This is a compilation of op-ed
articles that the billionaire investor wrote as the euro crisis
boiled up. As a retread, it displays Soros’s knack for assessing
market linkages and psychology on the fly.  “Getting It Wrong” by William A. Barnett (MIT). Poor
monetary data were a root cause of the financial crisis, argues
Barnett, a University of Kansas economist and former Federal
Reserve Board staffer.  “Grand Pursuit” by Sylvia Nasar (Fourth Estate/Simon &
Schuster). An absorbing narrative history of economists -- from
 Beatrice Webb  to John  Maynard Keynes  -- who pursued the idea
that mankind could control its destiny.  “Greece’s ‘Odious’ Debt” by Jason Manolopoulos (Anthem
Press). A hedge-fund manager explains how his Greek compatriots
gambled away their future -- and how German and French bankers
egged them on. Who’s bailing out whom?  “The High-Beta Rich” by Robert Frank (Crown Business).
The Wall Street Journal wealth reporter returns to “Richistan”
only to find billionaires flailing in debt and repo men seizing
their Gulfstreams.  “Idea Man” by Paul Allen (Portfolio/Penguin). This memoir
by  Microsoft’s (MSFT)  co-founder offers a fascinating look at what it
took to build the software behemoth.  “Love and Capital” by Mary Gabriel (Little, Brown). An
exemplary biography of Karl and  Jenny Marx  and their children.  “Models.Behaving.Badly” by Emanuel Derman (Free Press/
Wiley-Blackwell). The former head of quantitative finance at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. explores why models failed during the
mortgage meltdown and why modelers must use them more wisely.  “Oil’s Endless Bid” by Dan Dicker (Wiley). Petroleum
prices have gone crazy, and a large share of the blame belongs
to Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and other banks, argues this
Nymex trader.  “Paper Promises” by Philip Coggan (Allen Lane/
PublicAffairs). Our  Ponzi scheme  “is running out of suckers,”
the Economist’s Buttonwood columnist argues in this look at how
West’s debt crisis may overturn the global economic order.  “The Quest” by Daniel Yergin (Allen Lane/Penguin Press).
The energy economist who brought us “The Prize” sets out to
debunk peak oil theory.  “Reckless Endangerment” by Gretchen Morgenson and Joshua Rosner (Times Books). A thoughtful contribution to the debate on
whether Fannie Mae really was “ ground zero ” in the subprime-
mortgage explosion, as some critics argue.  “Steve Jobs” by Walter Isaacson (Simon & Schuster). A
memorable biography of the brilliant and maddening man who
revolutionized the way we work and play.  “Street Freak” by Jared Dillian (Touchstone). A former
trader at  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  describes his battle to
survive and thrive in a business that drove him over the edge.  “Thinking, Fast and Slow” by Daniel Kahneman. (Allen
Lane/ Farrar, Straus and Giroux). The Princeton psychologist and
Nobel laureate synthesizes decades of research in this absorbing
journey through our “mental machinery.” At look at how we make
choices about picking stocks, predicting the value of Bordeaux
wines, and much more.  (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 