-- Shirakawa Says Central Banks Must Consider Risks of Low Rates
-- B y   A k i   I t o ,   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-25T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/shirakawa-says-short-term-focus-may-cause-swings-in-economy.html
Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said central bankers must consider the dangers of
keeping interest rates low for too long as they seek to
strengthen the global recovery from the 2008 financial crisis.  “If low interest rates induce investment projects that are
only profitable at such  interest-rate  levels, this could have an
adverse impact on productivity and growth potential of the
economy by making resource allocation inefficient,” Shirakawa
said yesterday at a Federal Reserve conference in Washington.  Central banks across the developed world have maintained
record-low borrowing costs, with the Fed saying it’s likely to
keep its main rate close to zero through at least late 2014 to
reduce unemployment. The BOJ has held its benchmark interest
rate below 1 percent for more than a decade as monetary stimulus
failed to revive  consumer spending  following the collapse of a
real estate asset price bubble in the 1990s.  A comparison of Japan after its 1997 banking crisis and the
U.S. after the housing-market bust show “surprisingly similar
trends,” and the BOJ and the Fed responded in similar ways as
well, Shirakawa said. He spoke on a panel that included Fed Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  and  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King .  “Extraordinary easy monetary policy” either through
interest rates or central-bank asset purchases “will not solve
the underlying balance-sheet problems,”  Jaime Caruana , general
manager at the Bank for International Settlements in Basel,
 Switzerland , said yesterday at the conference. “This policy can
buy time but it is very important that this time is used
properly to address the roots of the problems.”  Central banks “need to do more to promote effective
balance-sheet repair,” he said.  Financial Stability  Three of the four papers presented to the conference
yesterday focused on financial stability, a sign of central
banks’ deep involvement with financial regulation and market
surveillance after the crisis.  Both Shirakawa and King warned that a move into financial
policy subjects central banks to greater accountability. U.S.
central bankers are facing resistance from financial firms as
they use their powers to increase capital standards and
scrutinize compensation and dividend policies, tasks that bank
boards of directors once performed with a higher level of
autonomy.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
asked Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke in public last June whether
he “has a fear like I do” that overzealous regulation “will
be the reason it took so long that our banks, our credit, our
businesses and most importantly  job creation  to start going
again.”  Proprietary Trading  Banks are also pushing back on a rule in the Dodd-Frank Act,
the most sweeping U.S. financial regulatory reform since the
1930s, that would limit proprietary trading.  Central bankers should find it “straightforward” to be
accountable for their policy toward  inflation , Shirakawa said.
That is what the public demands for entrusting monetary policy
to a “technocratic institution,” he said.  “Macroprudential considerations are much more nebulous,”
he added, and contain more elements of “art rather than science
-- and will inevitably test the limits of democratic deference
to the conduct of monetary policy.”  King also urged central bankers to give “careful thought”
to ensuring adequate accountability on regulation.  “It will be pretty crucial to explain what we are doing
and why,” he said.  Central banks should expect increased “political and
public scrutiny” as they broaden the scope of their activities,
Caruana said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  