-- Soldier Charged in Afghan Shootings Had Secret Clearance
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/soldier-charged-in-afghan-shootings-had-secret-clearance.html
Robert Bales, the U.S. Army staff
sergeant accused of murdering 17 Afghan civilians, was given a
security clearance even though he’d had previous financial
troubles and scrapes with the law.  Bales, 38, who served in  Iraq  three times before being sent
to Afghanistan, held a secret-level clearance, according to two
U.S. military officials who had access to his records and asked
not to be named because the details have not been made public.  While secret is a common, mid-level clearance, it may have
given Bales access to classified material that according to the
government’s definition, could cause “serious damage” to
national security if disclosed to unauthorized sources. Two
other military officials familiar with the clearance program,
also speaking on condition of anonymity, said they were troubled
that Bales held a clearance with a record that could expose him
to blackmail or bribery.  About 90 percent of active-duty military personnel in
Afghanistan and Iraq have a security clearance, according to
Evan Lesser, managing director of Clearancejobs.com, a website
that matches U.S. clearance-holders with prospective employers.  “It’s not abnormal that Mr. Bales had a security
clearance,” said Lesser, whose website is part of  New York- 
based  Dice Holdings Inc. (DHX)  “Military personnel in Afghanistan and
Iraq and most of the  Middle East  are probably going to have some
level of security clearance.”  More than 2 million government workers, including military
personnel, held confidential or secret security clearances as of
October 2010, according to a report from the U.S. Director of
National Intelligence. The Defense Department issues more than
80 percent of all clearances, according to information posted on
clearancejobs.com.  Bales’s Troubles  Bales, who was charged yesterday with 17 counts of
premeditated murder, enlisted in the Army on Nov. 8, 2001. Court
records show he was arrested in 2002 at a hotel in Tacoma,
Washington, in an investigation of an assault on a woman. Bales
pleaded not guilty and underwent 20 hours of anger management
counseling, and the charge was dismissed.  Bales was involved in a drunken altercation with a woman
and her boyfriend in 2008 after making comments about her, a
police report and the woman involved say. Bales wasn’t charged
in the incident outside a bowling alley in Tacoma,  Washington ,
near the Joint Base Lewis-McChord where he was stationed,
according to police and court records.  Before he joined the military, Bales swindled an Ohio
couple of more than $600,000 when he served as their
stockbroker, according to records of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, an industry group. He was ordered in 2003
to pay more than $1.3 million in damages to the couple.  ‘Need to Know’  The charges against Bales in the Afghanistan shootings
don’t accuse him of misusing his clearance. John Henry Browne, a
Seattle lawyer for Bales in the Afghan case, didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  It’s unclear when Bales received his secret clearance or
whether he held a higher-level top secret clearance for his job.
There are three levels of security clearances: confidential,
secret and top secret. The most closely held secrets are
classified top secret and controlled on a “need to know” basis
as what’s called sensitive compartmented information.  Bales may have failed to report some of his financial and
legal troubles when applying for a clearance, the officials
famiiar with the clearance program said. Providing false
information on an application for a security clearance is a
violation of both the U.S. criminal law and the Uniform Code of
Military Justice.  Clearance Backlog  Screeners reviewing Bales’s application may have ignored
blots on the soldier’s record or failed to check his information
thoroughly, the officials said. The wars in  Afghanistan  and Iraq
created an enormous backlog in the clearance system, so some
applications have gotten less scrutiny than they once did,
especially at the secret level, one of the officials said.  More than 512,000 government employees and contractors were
approved for confidential or secret clearances in fiscal 2010,
according to the report from the Director of National
Intelligence.  “There is a large number of cleared personnel,” Steven Aftergood, the director of the Project on Government Secrecy at
the Federation of American Scientists, said in an interview.
“Just keeping tabs on that is an enormous task. Every one of
them not only needs to go through initial review, but needs to
go through periodic review.”  Classified Technology  Radios and weapons systems often contain classified
technology, so even low-ranking soldiers have to be cleared to
use them, and enlisted personnel often get a secret clearance as
they gain seniority, an Army reservist with a secret clearance
said in an interview. Almost every soldier deployed overseas has
a clearance, said the soldier, who spoke on condition he not be
named because he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Because Bales was working with members of the Army’s
Special Forces in Afghanistan, he may have had access to
sophisticated equipment, such as advanced night vision gear and
sensors used to detect people and improvised explosive devices,
said the officials who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Although secret clearances are now considered routine, the
release of information classified as secret can still cause
significant damage if given to the wrong people, said one
official, citing the case of Army Private First Class Bradley Manning, who’s on trial for passing State Department cables and
other secret material to the Wikileaks website.  ‘Background Check’  Applicants for secret clearances undergo “a fairly
extensive background check,” Lesser said in an e-mail. Such
clearances must be reviewed every 10 years, he said.  The most common investigation for a secret clearance
includes a national agency check combined with a credit search
and checks with local law enforcement agencies where the
applicant has lived, worked or studied, according to Lesser. The
investigation includes inquiries to current and past employers,
schools and references and covers the preceding five years.  In 2009, Bales and his wife, Karilyn, defaulted on a
mortgage for one of their two properties in Washington state,
and they recently attempted to sell the other for less than what
they owe on it. At one point, the couple owed more than $500,000
on the two homes.  Mortgage problems aren’t necessarily a red flag for
security clearances, Lesser said. Financial considerations boil
down to whether the person’s financial troubles are due to their
own actions, such as gambling, risky business decisions and
spending sprees beyond the person’s means, Lesser said.  ‘Close Attention’  The military “pays close attention to debt and other
financial issues when it comes to screening applicants for
security clearance to handle sensitive information,” Lieutenant
Colonel James Gregory, a Defense Department spokesman, said in
an e-mail. “A person with big debts is more likely to accept
money in exchange for revealing secrets. So that’s why financial
things are, if not the biggest, one of the biggest reasons that
a clearance would not be granted or be revoked.”  Even so, the military takes a “whole person” approach
when granting a clearance, weighing an individual’s past and
present behavior, considering favorable as well as unfavorable
conduct, Gregory said. “The military also considers the
circumstances and recency of the conduct, as well as the
presence of rehabilitation or positive behavioral changes,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  