-- Yen Gains Most in 2012 as Growth Concern Fuels Refuge Dem
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-24T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-24/yen-gains-most-in-2012-as-growth-concern-fuels-refuge-dem.html
The yen rose against all of its 16
major counterparts, marking the first broad-based move this
year, as increased concern of slowing economic growth spurred
investor appetite for safe assets.  The Japanese currency appreciated against the tenders of
commodity-exporting countries, led by  South Africa ’s rand, after
a private report showed manufacturing may shrink in China for a
fifth month. A similar report in  Europe  helped spur a drop in
the euro against the yen.  Consumer confidence  likely rose this
month in the U.S., economists said before the report next week.  “The general risk-off tone that was popular throughout the
week” supported the yen, said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in
 Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co. “For the first time in months, Japan managed
a  trade surplus  and that suggests that maybe the Japanese
economy is in better shape than some had feared.”  The yen rose 1.3 percent to 82.35 per dollar this week in
 New York  in its biggest such gain since the final week of 2011.
The South African rand fell 2.9 percent to 10.7234 yen. The euro
strengthened 0.6 percent to 109.27 yen and added 0.7 percent to
$1.3270.  Implied volatility  of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies, which signals traders’ expectations for price
fluctuations, was 10.14 percent yesterday, according to the
JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index , down from the high this year of
12.37 percent Jan. 3.  Yen Bets  Futures traders decreased their bets that the yen will
decline against the dollar, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the yen compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 25,821 on March
20, compared with net shorts of 42,380 a week earlier.  The Japanese currency breached its 21-day moving average
against the euro of 108.61, which will lead to further yen
appreciation, with support between 105.43 and 106.8,  MacNeil Curry , head of foreign-exchange and interest-rates technical
strategy at Bank of America Corp. in New York, wrote in a note.
Support refers to a level where buy orders may be clustered.  Signs of slower growth in the world’s second-largest
economy drove investors to sell currencies of countries such as
 Australia , whose biggest trading partner is  China .  China Slows  A preliminary reading of an index from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics released March 21 showed Chinese
manufacturing may contract. The gauge fell to 48.1 in March, the
lowest level in four months and compared with a final reading of
49.6 for February. Figures below 50 indicate contraction.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company whose
biggest customer is China, is re-evaluating spending plans amid
slowing Chinese growth, the Australian Financial Review reported
March 20, citing comments by Chairman Jacques Nasser to
investors.  The Aussie lost 1.2 percent to $1.0467 and decreased 2.5
percent to 86.18 yen. It was the second worst performance among
the major currencies.  “Higher-yield currencies are really sensitive to global
growth prospects and that’s really been a concern with all the
data that’s come out this week,” said Eric Viloria, senior
currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in New York.  European Economy  The euro slumped against the yen after a euro-area
composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers in
manufacturing and services dropped to 48.7 from 49.3 in
February, London-based Markit Economics said in an initial
estimate March 22. Economists forecast a gain to 49.6, according
to the median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. A
reading below 50 indicates contraction.  The 17-nation currency gained against the dollar after
 Greece ’s Prime Minister Lucas Papademos won approval for a 130-
billion-euro ($173 billion) aid package. U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said March 21 that “Greece is making
progress toward sustainability.”  The yen surged by the most since August against the dollar
on March 22 after  Japan  reported an unexpected trade surplus for
last month, adding to evidence of a rebound in the economy.  Japan’s finance ministry reported exports exceeded imports
by 32.9 billion yen ($400 million) in February. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted a shortfall of 120 billion
yen. Exports fell by 2.7 percent from a year earlier, less than
the 6.5 percent drop projected.  Market Forces  “There’s been a lot this week that’s been supportive of
the yen,” Gain Capital’s Viloria said. “Treasury yields are
lower because of risk aversion, and that’s also helping the yen
as a safe haven.”  The pound strengthened against most of its 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg after U.K. data showed inflation slowed
less than economist estimates in February. Consumer prices rose
3.4 percent from a year earlier, compared with the 3.3 percent
median estimate of 36 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Sterling advanced 0.2 percent to $1.5869.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , used to track
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, slid 0.6 percent to 79.313. It rose to as high as
80.738 last week as signs of strength in the U.S. economic
recovery damped expectations of further Federal Reserve asset
purchases, or quantitative easing.  Housing Sector  U.S. new-home sales dropped 1.6 percent to a 313,000 annual
pace, the slowest since October, from a 318,000 rate in January
that was weaker than previously reported, figures from the
Commerce Department showed yesterday in Washington. The median
estimate of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
325,000.  “You saw the  U.S. dollar  rallying on good data, which you
hadn’t seen in a long time because there was so much focus on
QE3 being priced out,” said David Grad, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of America in New York. “That intense focus
on pricing out on QE3 has calmed and that’s why you’ve seen the
risk-on, risk-off trade come back.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said monetary
policy may be at a “turning point” as the world’s largest
economy strengthens.  With Fed policy “on pause, it may be a good time to take
stock of whether we may be at a turning point,” Bullard said in
a speech in  Hong Kong  yesterday. The  U.S. economy  may expand 3
percent this year, he said, adding that “the outlook has
improved markedly” during the past eight months.  The Fed has held its target rate at a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
 consumer sentiment  was at 74.7 this month, up from a previous
prediction of 74.3, according to the median estimate of 52
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the March 30
report.  The dollar is up 1.2 percent in the past month against the
currencies of its nine developed-nation counterparts, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose 0.4
percent and yen dropped 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  