-- A Sensible Way Out of the Syria Quagmire
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-09-10T13:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/a-sensible-way-out-of-the-syria-quagmire.html
Could there be a better way to
punish Bashar al-Assad for using chemical weapons than a
“limited and tailored” military strike, as President  Barack Obama  and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, at his urging,
would have it?  It’s such a bad plan that not even the president, who is
feverishly pushing it, seems to like it. That’s why he gets
tangled in shifting rationales and dubious promises, such as
assurances the trouble will be over before we know it and not so
much as a U.S. soldier’s toe will touch the ground in  Syria .
Only good rebels will benefit; with more and better arms, these
fighters will find some indeterminate way to bring peace to
Syria. None of this, after the initial bombs, would involve us
militarily even a teeny, tiny bit.  You can be for punishing Assad and still realize these are
preposterous statements. Assad could end up as strong or
stronger after a strike. We could end up as flummoxed and
hamstrung as ever. The biggest change might be that we killed
some innocent civilians, too.  Enter into this political quagmire Senator  Joe Manchin , a
West Virginia Democrat who is as uncertain about the wisdom of
the president’s plan as the president himself appears to be.  Smart Response  Unlike the president, however, Manchin is offering all
sides a way out. Last week, before he announced he would be
 voting against  the president’s resolution, he called every one
of his fellow senators, which is more than the president has
done. He found most of them were where he was: Assad’s evil
attack using sarin gas did cross a red line that must be
enforced but in a smart, not uncontrollable, way.  He then  reached across  his own personal aisle to an arch
nemesis, Senator Heidi Heitkamp of  North Dakota , one of the few
Democrats who voted to kill his bill to strengthen background
checks for gun purchases after the massacre in Newtown,
 Connecticut .  Heitkamp, too, had announced she was against the White
House plan for Syria. War makes strange bedfellows. The two
drafted a resolution that would give Assad 45 days to sign the
Chemical Weapons Convention of 1993, joining 189 nations,
including Syrian friends China and  Russia  (Assad’s father and
predecessor, Hafez al-Assad, refused to sign). That refusal puts
Syria in very bad company -- with the likes of  South Sudan ,
 Angola  and  North Korea .  Would the Syrian leader do what his father refused to do?
In an interview with CBS’s  Charlie Rose  over the weekend, Assad
 lied  about using chemical weapons. But part of the motivation
for that lie must be shame.  The Manchin-Heitkamp resolution calls on Assad to take
“concrete steps” to comply with the convention, which would
mean getting rid of his chemical weapons. Failure to comply
within the 45-day period would clearly demonstrate “a disregard
of international norms.”  What Manchin means, of course, is “another” instance of
disregard for international norms, given the more than 1,400 of
Assad’s citizens who have been killed already. But when you are
trying to get a political concession, you have to employ
political words. Manchin points out the singular improvement of
this resolution compared with the one out of the White House.
“If chemical weapons are the problem, what Obama has proposed
is not going to do anything about that problem,” he said. “My
resolution with Heidi does.”  It also reduces the known unknowns. We don’t know what  Iran 
will do, but it would give that country’s new president, Hassan Rohani -- a centrist cleric who is an improvement over  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  -- time to figure out what he can do. It puts off a
military strike, which could hurt us more than it hurts Assad,
without taking force off the table. It gives our allies time to
come around;  Saudi Arabia  has joined up, and even Russia may be
showing some give by proposing that Syria put its stockpile of
weapons under international control. Both Obama and his former
secretary of state,  Hillary Clinton , said the proposal could be
worthy of consideration.  Pariah State  What Assad now knows is that the consequences of having
used gas far outweigh the benefits, if any. He’s a pariah, even
to Russia, an international outlaw. The stubborn, chinless,
lisping ophthalmologist in Damascus may soon be looking for a
way out.  Pursuing limited strikes, which are explicitly meant to do
little harm, may do so little harm that they empower the regime.
Afterward, if Assad has a breath left in him, he will declare
victory, go all in against the rebels, and possibly use gas
again. If the regime is mortally harmed -- which is unlikely
because that is specifically not the U.S.’s goal -- we’re in the
terrible position, Manchin says, of having a dog in the fight
but not a friend. As has happened with other Middle Eastern
regimes, the most likely beneficiary of U.S. intervention is our
enemy.  Obama, at best, could win a vote in the Senate and then --
as President  Bill Clinton  did with  Kosovo  -- proceed with
military action without waiting for the House, where he will
almost certainly face a humiliating defeat partly at the hands
of his own party.  Manchin offers all parties a timeout. There’s no element of
surprise that would be lost. That’s gone. We only lose 45 days
during which, in the terrible, horrible, no good, very bad
situation we find ourselves in, something positive could happen.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 