-- Abe Ally Says Failure to Raise Sales Tax May Cause Japan Selloff
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-09-10T03:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/abe-ally-says-failure-to-raise-sales-tax-may-cause-japan-selloff.html
Failure to increase  Japan ’s sales
tax as planned could lead overseas investors to unload their
Japanese assets and “blow away” the market benefits of
Abenomics, a lawmaker ally of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said.  Kozo Yamamoto, a ruling Liberal Democratic Party tax panel
member whose pro-monetary easing stance Abe has cited as an
influence, said he urged the premier to go ahead with the
scheduled increase to 8 percent from 5 percent next April.
Raising the tax will not affect the battle to escape deflation,
he said in an interview yesterday.  Abe will decide Oct. 1 whether to stick with the current
plan, Economy Minister Akira Amari said yesterday. Koichi Hamada, a former Yale University professor who is now an Abe
adviser, expressed concern on Sept. 4 about the tax increase’s
potential effect on the economic recovery and said it should be
postponed or made in smaller steps.  Abe is pushing to end 15 years of deflation and tepid
growth in Japan through monetary easing and fiscal stimulus. As
part of that effort, the Bank of Japan has committed to buying
about 70 percent of planned bond issuances from the world’s most
heavily indebted nation to try to achieve a 2 percent  inflation 
rate within two years.  “The tax increase has nothing to do with deflation,”
Yamamoto said. “Deflation is a monetary phenomenon. The Bank of
Japan is dealing with this actively and it should continue to do
so.”  Yamamoto called for an extra spending package of 4 to 5
trillion yen ($40.2 billion to $50.2 billion) to offset the tax
increase, saying it could be funded without selling additional
bonds by tapping rising tax revenue from the improving economy
and using funds left over from the 2012 budget. Any economic
shocks could be dealt with by central bank action, he said.  “Investors are asking whether Japan really has the will to
rebuild its  finances ,” Yamamoto said. “If we don’t go ahead,
it’s highly likely they will pull out of Japan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  