-- Labor Calling for Changes to Obamacare at Convention
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-09-10T20:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/labor-calling-for-changes-to-obamacare-at-convention.html
The AFL-CIO is drafting a
resolution calling for changes in the Affordable Care Act, the
landmark health-care overhaul that has some labor leaders
worrying it could endanger the health benefits of their members.  The resolution will be presented to the AFL-CIO convention
today or tomorrow, according to Fred Redmond, a vice president
with the United Steelworkers Union. The AFL-CIO, the largest
U.S. labor federation, is holding its convention this week in
 Los Angeles .  Unions are concerned with provisions in the law backed by
President  Barack Obama  that require employees under certain
plans to pay a fee to maintain coverage. In addition, unions say
multi-employer plans should be eligible for tax subsidies, a
position at odds with the law.  “We want to offer some constructive suggestions to the
president,” Redmond, who is also a member of the AFL-CIO
executive council, said in an interview. “We’re walking a
balance to make sure that our message to the president is not
disrespectful and should not imply any lack of support for the
plan.”  Richard Trumka , president of the AFL-CIO, the federation of
57 labor unions with 12 million members, called a provision in
the health-care law that defines a full-time work week as 30
hours instead of the traditional 40, “something that no one
intended.” It has led some employers to create jobs with 29 1/2
hours of work a week to avoid paying for health care.  Legislative Fixes  At a press briefing last month, Trumka said he has held
meetings with White House officials over the law and would
support legislation to fix what the unions perceive as problems.  The AFL-CIO resolution being drafted will target several
specific provisions of the law such as the penalty for employers
who don’t offer health care to workers, Redmond said.  “We think that the penalty of $2,000 for employers to pay
per employee may not be enough to discourage employers from not
offering health care,” Redmond said.  In a bid to head off the union effort, U.S. Senator  John Thune , a South Dakota Republican, this week introduced
legislation that would make it illegal to provide subsides for
certain existing health care plans.  The AFL-CIO is meeting through tomorrow with about 1,650
delegates and guests at the Los Angeles convention center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  