-- Accused Art Thief Won’t Reveal Where Works Are Hidden
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-09-10T14:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/accused-art-thief-won-t-reveal-where-works-are-hidden.html
The accused ringleader of Romanian
thieves who stole seven works by artists including Picasso and
Matisse won’t reveal where five are stashed after his request to
be tried in a Dutch court was denied, his lawyer said.  A Bucharest court opened a trial today in the October 2012
theft of seven artworks, insured for a combined 18 million euros
($24 million), from the  Kunsthal  museum in Rotterdam. Defendant
Radu Dogaru, who admitted stealing them with two accomplices,
offered in August to return five of the paintings in exchange
for being tried in the Netherlands.  “My client has made a 180-degree turn and is now saying:
if the Dutch authorities don’t want to take me, nobody will ever
see those paintings again,” Dogaru’s lawyer, Catalin Dancu,
told reporters in court today. The five artworks are currently
abroad and “in the custody” of a Russian, who is trying to
sell them, Dancu said.  The theft of works by  Pablo Picasso ,  Claude Monet ,  Lucian Freud ,  Henri Matisse ,  Paul Gauguin  and Meyer de Haan ranks among
the most spectacular art heists of the last decades. The case
has turned on whether any of the artworks still survive after
Dogaru’s mother, Olga Dogaru, first confessed to burning all of
them in her stove, only to withdraw her statement on July 22.
She now claims that none were incinerated.  At an Aug. 13 pretrial hearing in Bucharest, Dogaru’s
lawyer revealed his client was trying to avoid a more-stringent
sentence in his homeland by offering to return the five under
his “control” in exchange for being transferred to Holland
and, if convicted, serving his time there. Dogaru claims that
the other two pieces are in  Belgium , where he has no control
over them.  Insurance Payout  He is now asking for a simplified legal procedure in
 Romania , where he could be handed a sentence of 14 years in
prison, Dancu said.  Insurer  Aon Plc (AON)  paid 17 million euros to Triton Foundation,
which owned the artworks at the time of the theft, according to
Dancu and Maria Vasii, a lawyer for Eugen Darie, who is accused
of being the driver in the heist.  A scientific analysis of the ashes in Olga Dogaru’s stove
showed they contained fragments of  oil paintings , according to
Ernest Oberlander-Tarnoveanu, the director of the Romanian
museum that carried out the tests.  Romanian prosecutors sent the ashes to a museum in the
Netherlands to carry out a new forensic analysis because a test
conducted by the Romanian museum isn’t conclusive, Dancu said.  Blue-Suede Shoes  Today’s opening session was delayed for several hours after
the judge fined Dancu 5,000 lei ($1,488) for being late and
wearing a pair of suede sneakers into court. Dancu in turn,
asked for the judge to be replaced, a request that was rejected.  The thieves stole the paintings in less than three minutes
from the Kunsthal after they forced an emergency door open with
a set of pliers, according to the prosecution’s file obtained by
Bloomberg.  They “never for a moment believed that the paintings were
original after stealing them proved to be so easy,” Dancu said.  The stolen paintings belong to a private collection managed
by the Triton Foundation, started by Rotterdam port entrepreneur
Willem Cordia. The collection consists of about 250 paintings,
drawings and sculptures from the period 1860 to 1970.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  