-- Maersk Invests in Emerging Markets as Bondholders Flee
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-11T11:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/maersk-invests-in-emerging-markets-as-bondholders-flee-freight.html
As bond investors dump emerging
market assets, the world’s biggest freight company is
underscoring its commitment to the region.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  says it won’t cut its investment in
developing markets from Asia to  South America  even as creditors
turn their backs.  “It’s a very important element of our company to identify,
years in advance, which countries and regions will have the most
growth,” Erik Eisenberg, a vice president at APM Terminals, a
Maersk unit and the world’s third-largest port operator, said in
a phone interview. “We still see  Russia , sub-Saharan  Africa ,
 Latin America ,  Southeast Asia  as the best opportunities for
growth. This is where we’ll focus our investments.”  The comments from Maersk, whose chief executive officer,
Nils Smedegaard Andersen, said last month the “underlying
story” for emerging markets remains “very good,” show
business investors aren’t swayed by sudden shifts in securities
markets. Bondholders have pulled $22.1 billion from emerging-market funds since the end of April, almost five times what they
sold in U.S. corporate credit, according to EPFR Global.  Though the shipping industry is experiencing a “short-term
impact on global trade, in the long term, it shouldn’t change
the focus,” Rahul Kapoor, a Singapore-based analyst at Drewry
Maritime Equity Research, said by phone. “ Emerging markets  will
be the major driver for shipping, helped by demographics of
growing populations, which support strong long-term demand.”  Scaleback Signals  Securities investors have exited emerging markets following
signals from the  Federal Reserve  it will scale back the stimulus
that’s underpinned demand for higher-yielding assets. The MSCI
Emerging Market Index has lost 8.5 percent since its Jan. 3
peak, though it’s up 12 percent from this year’s June 24 low.  China’s  gross domestic product  growth slowed for two
straight quarters, down to 7.5 percent in the April-June period.
An annual rate of 7.5 percent would be the weakest pace in 23
years after averaging more than 10 percent a year in the
previous decade.  Several key indicators have signaled that growth in the
largest emerging-market economy may be set to accelerate again.
Exports climbed 7.2 percent last month, compared with the 5.5
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Same Strategy  The Hague-based APM Terminals is committing to its $1
billion-a-year investment bet on emerging markets, Eisenberg
said. “That strategy has not changed overnight,” he said.
Among the investments: the Sept. 2 purchase of Russian seaport
operator NCC Group Ltd. via APM Terminal’s  Global Ports
Investments Plc (GLPR) , and projects in  Mexico ,  Brazil  and China.  Maersk Line, which transports about 15 percent of the
world’s seaborne trade, needs emerging-markets growth to boost
trade flows as it battles vessel overcapacity in the container
shipping industry. Average container rates fell 13.1 percent in
the second quarter, Maersk reported Aug. 16.  The Copenhagen-based company isn’t the only shipping
industry voice to question the rout in emerging markets.  “Despite potentially curbed growth, so-called emerging
markets will keep growing,” Sturla Henriksen, director general
of the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The group represents more than 160
companies employing more than 55,000 seamen and offshore workers
globally.  Metals Need  Shipping companies transporting raw materials destined for
infrastructure projects in developing economies are poised to do
best, said Bjoern Kristian Roed, an analyst at Danske Bank
Markets, a unit of  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)   As much as $150 billion of Chinese investments in railways,
trains, infrastructure and cities next year should help
operators of dry bulk ships, which carry iron ore and coal, Roed
said by phone.  “Demand for the second half of 2013 and 2014 is looking
good, based on the projects started in  China , which are pretty
 steel-intensive ,” he said. Still, overcapacity in ship supply
will reduce profit potential, he said.  Drewry says the shipping industry has little reason to
retreat from emerging markets as economies in Asia start to
become a source of demand as well as supply for seaborne trade.  “The overall trend is for a strong focus on emerging
markets, and this is unlikely to change soon,” Drewry said in
an Aug. 19 report on global container terminal operators.  Even if Chinese output grows at a slower pace, the world’s
second-largest economy will continue to have the biggest impact
on the global shipping industry, according to Peter Sand, an
analyst at BIMCO, the world’s largest international shipping
association.  Building Bulk  “When an economy the size of China’s is growing 7 to 8
percent, we’re still talking enormous volumes,” Sand said by
phone. “So we may see some month-on-month declines, but
compared with a year ago, the numbers are still impressive.”  Right now, dry bulk shipping companies are the biggest
winners, according to Sand, whose Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based
organization accounts for 65 percent of world tonnage.  “China’s urbanization push is booming ahead regardless and
the country needs steel for houses, it needs to build up the
infrastructure and produce asphalt as the society is transformed
into a modern nation,” he said.  D/S Norden A/S (DNORD) ,  Europe ’s biggest listed operator of dry-bulk ships, is watching markets in  Asia  closely, CEO Carsten Mortensen said in August.  “Along with anyone else, we’re also a little bit worried
about the developments in China,” Mortensen told investors and
analysts. “But I think what has happened during the first half
and this summer is that even though you see a slowdown of GDP
numbers out of China, the fundamental dry bulk demand story
continues to play out on the same growth levels we’ve seen
consistently for quite a number of years now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  