-- Aflac Adds Rate Hedges as Bond Slump Hurts Japan Ratio
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-10T20:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/aflac-adds-rate-hedges-as-bond-slump-hurts-japan-ratio.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL)  added interest rate
hedges on dollar-denominated bonds after higher yields reduced a
measure of solvency used by regulators in Japan, the company’s
top market.  The largest seller of supplemental health insurance started
this quarter using contracts to guard against interest rate
fluctuations on some bonds backing obligations in Japan, Chief
Financial Officer Kriss Cloninger said yesterday during a
presentation to investors.  “We haven’t done that with the whole portfolio at all, but
we have done it on a portion of the portfolio and we continue to
investigate other alternatives,” Cloninger said at the
presentation, sponsored by Raymond James Financial Inc.  Chief Investment Officer Eric Kirsch said in July that
Aflac was exploring strategies such as hedges to guard the
solvency margin ratio in Japan, after a bond slump reduced the
measure to 585 percent on June 30 from 669 percent at the end of
2012. Columbus, Georgia-based Aflac has also shifted the
accounting treatment of a “significant portion” of its
Japanese  government bonds  to bolster the ratio, Cloninger said.  “These actions are exactly what we’ve been looking for,”
 John Nadel , an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., said in a
research note yesterday. Guarding the ratio “provides for the
confidence in ongoing profit repatriation from the Japan branch
to the parent” which is used to buy back stock.  Aflac rose 1.5 percent yesterday to $59.92 in New York. The
stock has  gained  13 percent this year, compared with the 18
percent rally of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The yield on the  10-year Treasury (USGG10YR)  gained 64 basis points in
the second quarter to 2.49 percent, and the yield on Japanese
government debt also jumped. Bonds lose value when  interest
rates  rise.  Cloninger didn’t specify the size of the hedges or the
insurer’s counterparties. Laura Kane, a spokeswoman for the
insurer, had no additional comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  