-- AIG Said to Opt Against Buffett Reinsurance Amid Clash
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-09-10T21:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/aig-said-to-opt-against-buffett-reinsurance-amid-clash.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
has decided against signing new reinsurance contracts with
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  after  Warren Buffett ’s company started a
commercial insurer competing against AIG, according to a person
with knowledge of the decision.  AIG stopped entering into the deals with Berkshire units
including National Indemnity Co. and  General Re  about two months
ago, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
negotiations are private. Existing contracts aren’t affected,
the person said.  Buffett said in May he was planning to add sales of
commercial insurance after hiring executives from AIG including
Peter Eastwood, who ran the company’s property-casualty
operation in the Americas. The move challenges New York-based
AIG in one of its main markets and expands Berkshire beyond its
strengths in U.S. personal auto coverage and reinsurance.  “We would like to get into the commercial-insurance
business very big time,” Buffett said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in May.  Berkshire backed more of AIG’s risks than any other
reinsurer, with $2.19 billion recoverable under the contracts,
including reserves, according to a regulatory filing with data
as of Dec. 31. That represents about 8.5 percent of the
reinsurance total at New York-based AIG. The figure includes a
2011 accord in which AIG agreed to pay Berkshire about $1.6
billion when Buffett’s company took on risks tied to asbestos.  Buffett has said some of the AIG managers contacted Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire seeking opportunities.  That account “kind of sounds a little strange to me,” AIG
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 69, told Bloomberg
Television’s  Betty Liu  in May. “We have plenty of talent. And
so, Warren wants to take a few people, and wait for them to call
him to build a business, god bless him.”  Buffett, 83, didn’t respond to a request for comment left
with an assistant. Jon Diat, a spokesman for AIG, declined to
comment. The Insurance Insider reported earlier that AIG planned
to cut reinsurance ties with Berkshire.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  