-- Alibaba’s Jack Ma Says Partnership Best Way to Protect Business
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-09-10T06:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/alibaba-s-jack-ma-says-partnership-best-way-to-protect-business.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. founder
Jack Ma said a partnership system is the best way to protect the
company’s value, and it is “not concerned” about where to hold
potentially the largest initial share sale since Facebook Inc.  Ma said in an e-mail provided to  Bloomberg News  that the
current 28 partners are most likely to create value for
customers, employees and shareholders. The partnership system
“is not a mere profit sharing mechanism, nor is it a vehicle of
power to exert greater control over the company,” he said.  Alibaba,  China ’s biggest e-commerce company, asked Hong
Kong’s stock exchange to allow a partnership to nominate a
majority of board members, a person with knowledge of the matter
said last month. That would enable Ma, with a 7.4 percent stake,
and his management team to maintain control after an IPO. Hong
Kong doesn’t allow new listings to have dual-class shares, as
 New York  does.  “We are not concerned about where to go public, but we do
care that wherever we end up going public must support this type
of open, innovative, responsible culture that values long-term
development,” Ma said in his e-mail dated today.  Alibaba declined to comment in an e-mailed statement.  Alibaba’s proposal will have to be approved by the  Hong
Kong  stock exchange’s listing committee. The Hong Kong’s
Securities and Futures Commission, or SFC, has the power to
object to a listing application on “certain grounds,”
according to a 2011  report  by the regulator.  Hangzhou-based Alibaba, which connects businesses and
consumers to each other across China, has a value of about $87
billion, according to the average of 11 analyst estimates
released in July. It could raise about HK$100 billion ($12.9
billion) in an initial public offering, Ernst & Young LLP said
in June.  That would be the world’s biggest since Facebook raised $16
billion in May of last year, and the city’s largest since AIA
Group Ltd.’s $20 billion offering in October 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  