-- Ares Founders Follow Drexel Roots to Biggest Acquisition
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-09-10T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/ares-founders-follow-drexel-roots-to-biggest-acquisition.html
Before Ares Management LLC moved to
the major leagues of private-equity with the $6 billion takeover
of luxury retail chain Neiman Marcus Inc., it counted the $1.65
billion buyout of GNC Holdings Inc. among its biggest deals.  The firm, whose founders worked at  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO)  and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. before starting out on their
own 16 years ago, had bought GNC from Apollo in 2007 after  Leon
Black ’s firm twice abandoned plans to take the operator of
wellness stores public. Los Angeles-based Ares, which invested
in GNC alongside the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board,
succeeded in 2011 and made more than four times its investment.
GNC’s stock more than tripled.  Now, Ares co-founders Tony Ressler and John Kissick are
betting they can unlock value again from a company that its
previous owners considered ripe for sale, and once more they’re
teaming up with a Candian partner, the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board. TPG Capital and Warburg Pincus LLC, which are
disposing of Neiman Marcus amid a challenging market for  luxury
goods , made more than 2.5 times their money in the eight years
they owned the company.  Ressler “tends to see trends where others don’t,” Rich Lawson, chief executive officer of HGGC LLC, a  Palo Alto ,
California-based buyout firm, said in a telephone interview.
“He takes a view of things from a credit standpoint, always
managing downside risk.”  The  Neiman Marcus  deal is the largest for the firm since
starting a private-equity group in 2003 and the fourth-biggest
leveraged buyout announced this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Equal Interest  Ares and the pension fund will hold an equal economic
interest in Neiman, and the chain’s management will retain a
minority stake. The deal probably ends prospects for a Neiman
initial public offering.  Ares executives declined to comment on the deal beyond the
statement yesterday announcing the buyout, said Bill Mendel, a
spokesman for the firm at Mendel Communications LLC.  Begun as a  capital markets  outfit that issued and managed
debt for corporations, Ares has since expanded into private
equity and private debt. The property team invests in assets
worth $15 million to $100 million, according to Ares’s  website ,
and its debt group consists of a team focusing on U.S. private
debt and one focusing on  Europe . The firm overall manages $66
billion in committed capital, with 700 employees in the U.S.,
Europe and  Asia .  Samsonite Sale  Its current private-equity investments include 99 Cents
Only Stores, Simmons Bedding Co. and Smart & Final Stores LLC,
according to the firm’s website. In 2007, Ares, along with Bain
Capital LLC, sold luggage maker Samsonite Corp. to CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. in a $1.7 billion deal. That investment also was
done with the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board.  The firm’s private-equity group manages $9 billion of
committed capital, raised through four buyout funds and an Asia-dedicated fund. Ares, which closed its fourth pool last year at
$4.7 billion, exceeding its $4 billion target, has two funds in
the top 25 percent of buyout pools, according to a report this
year from  Preqin Ltd. , the London-based research firm. The
report didn’t identify the two funds.  The third fund, which held its close in 2008, had a 24
percent net internal rate of return as of March 31, according to
 data  from the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System ,
which committed $400 million to the pool. The previous fund and
Ares’s first fund both had 14 percent net IRRs, according to the
Calpers data.  “Tony is one of the best in the business,” said Lawson,
who has known Ressler since he started Ares. “He’s done a lot
in the retail sector, like Samsonite.”  Drexel Roots  Ressler and Kissick led the capital markets business at New
York-based Apollo and in 1997 formed Ares with a team of
partners. Before Apollo, the duo were bond traders at Drexel
Burnham Lambert, the pioneering junk bond firm. Ressler is a co-owner of  Major League Baseball ’s  Milwaukee Brewers  and brother-in-law of Black, who founded Apollo in 1990 after working at
Drexel Burnham.  The  Neiman Marcus  buyout is expected to close by the end of
the year, Ares said. The company was founded in  Dallas  by
Herbert Marcus, his sister and her husband, A.L. Neiman, in
1907. Marcus bought out the Neimans in 1928 and his son Stanley
ran the stores from 1952 to 1979. Stanley’s son Richard then
became chief executive until 1988, when he resigned, ending 81
years of family management of the chain.  While Neiman has recovered some of its luster in the past
year, sales remain below their 2008 peak. Many Americans are
wary amid a weak economy and, rather than spending on apparel,
are upgrading their cars and buying home-related merchandise as
the U.S. housing recovery gathers momentum.  Luxury Spending  Luxury spending in the Americas grew 5 percent on a
constant-currency basis in 2012, less than half the 13 percent
gain of the previous year, according to Bain & Co. estimates.  CEO Karen Katz, who will remain at Neiman’s helm, has been
working to spur sales growth by introducing the chain’s Cusp
contemporary fashion concept into its namesake stores to attract
younger customers, opening an e-commerce site in  China , and
rolling out more Last Call outlets. The chain is known for its
Christmas catalog, which offers such gifts as limited-edition
McLaren cars for $354,000.  “We plan on investing meaningful capital into the business
to ensure Neiman’s long-term position as the unparalleled leader
in luxury retail,”  David Kaplan , co-head of Ares’s private-equity group, said in the statement. “We believe we have
achieved superior growth with many consumer-facing businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  