-- Argentina’s Rating Cut to CCC+ by S&P on Appeals Court Ruling
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-09-10T22:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/argentina-s-rating-cut-to-ccc-by-s-p-on-appeals-court-ruling.html
Argentina’s credit rating was cut
one level by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited a U.S. Appeals Court
ruling that prevents the country from honoring its debt without
also paying holders of defaulted bonds in full.  S&P lowered the country’s rating to CCC+, seven levels
below investment grade and in line with that of  Egypt  and
Cyprus, from B-, according to an e-mailed statement today. S&P
gave the rating a negative outlook.  “The lawsuit could result in the interruption of payments
on bonds currently under New York jurisdiction, or it could
prompt Argentina to undertake a debt exchange that we could view
as distressed,” S&P said in the statement. “There is at least
a one-in-three chance of either occurring within the coming 12
months.”  The court said Aug. 23 that  Argentina  can’t make payments
on its restructured debt while refusing to pay holders of $1.5
billion in defaulted notes including hedge fund Elliott
Management Corp. The ruling will also prevent third parties,
including trustee Bank of New York Mellon Corp., from passing
along payments to bondholders. PresidentCristina Fernandez de Kirchner said Aug. 26 that Argentina will offer a third
restructuring to defaulted bondholders and let investors who own
the restructured notes swap them into debt subject to local law.  The perceived risk Argentina will default on its
obligations is the highest of any country in the world,
according to credit-default swaps. Argentina’s five-year swaps,
contracts that protect the nation’s bondholders against non-payment, have jumped 52 basis points, or 0.52 percentage point,
since the ruling to 2,534 basis points at 6 p.m. in  New York ,
according to data compiled by CMA Ltd.  Swap Offer  Yields on sovereign securities last year moved in the
opposite direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of
32 upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.  Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino said on Aug. 28 any plan
to swap the restructured securities would be explored once the
U.S. Supreme Court decides whether to hear Argentina’s appeal
against the holdouts. Since then, restructured dollar bonds due
2033 have rallied 2.46 cents on the dollar to 61.4 cents,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  