-- Ashmore Rises as Pension Funds and Governments Boost Inflows
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-09-10T09:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/ashmore-rises-as-pension-funds-and-governments-boost-inflows.html
Ashmore Group Plc (ASHM)  climbed to a
three-month high after the U.K. fund manager reported record net
inflows for the full year as pension funds and sovereign wealth
funds continued to invest in  emerging markets .  The  stock  rose for a seventh day, gaining 7.9 percent to
391.6 pence at 10:35 a.m. in  London , the highest intraday level
since June 5 as the company reported $13.4 billion of net
inflows for the year ended June 30, from $1.3 billion in 2012,
according to a statement. London-based Ashmore also announced a
final dividend of 11.75 pence a share.  “We continued to have inflows in May and June,” Graeme Dell, Ashmore’s finance director, said in a telephone interview
today. “This is reflected in a number of factors including our
predominantly institutional base, which takes longer-term views.
Fundamentals within emerging-market economies are very strong.”  Ashmore’s investors helped the company defy a slump in
assets for fund managers focused on developing markets that has
been triggered by concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will start to
taper its record stimulus program as soon as this month.
Scotland’s  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  reported its first
quarterly outflows since 2011 in July as clients pulled money
from its equity and emerging-market funds.  Ashmore increased assets under management 22 percent to
$77.4 billion for the full year and increased both revenue and
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization in
the period by 7 percent.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager with $3.9
trillion in assets, said earlier today that emerging markets
offer good long-term buying opportunities as economies globally
improve.  Robert Kapito , co-founder and president of New York-based BlackRock, said there is too much short-term emphasis in
investing, and foreign investors should be diversified to
survive this period of market volatility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  