-- Aussie Double Bottom Signals Gain on RBA, China: Market Reversal
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2013-09-10T06:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/aussie-double-bottom-signals-gain-on-rba-china-market-reversal.html
Trading patterns suggest the worst
may be over for the Australian dollar after plunging 9.5 percent
in the past six months, as the  Reserve Bank  approaches the end
of its interest-rate cutting cycle and  China’s economy  recovers.  The Aussie may climb toward 93.07 U.S. cents if it can
breach key resistance levels after rallying twice last month
from about 89 cents, forming a so-called double-bottom base,
according to Junichi Ishikawa, a Tokyo-based analyst at IG
Markets Securities Ltd. The currency traded at 92.57 U.S. cents
as of 4:50 p.m. in Sydney.  A resumption of Aussie strength would post a challenge for
Prime Minister-elect  Tony Abbott  as he tries to transition the
nation’s economy away from mining investment-led growth. The RBA
Governor  Glenn Stevens  reiterated last week that depreciation in
the currency would “help to foster a rebalancing of growth in
the economy.”  “There are some green shoots appearing in Asia,” said
 Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-based currency strategist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  Australia ’s second largest bank. “The
recovery in the Australian dollar could continue further from
here.”  The Aussie, the world’s fifth-most-traded currency, reached
a three-year low of 88.48 cents on Aug. 5. Its 8.1 percent drop
in 2013 is the second-biggest decline among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
trailing only the yen’s 10 percent plunge.  Sell-off ‘Overdone’  “The Aussie sell-off towards the end of August was a
little bit overdone,” said Derek Mumford, a director at
Rochford Capital, a foreign-exchange risk-management company in
Sydney. “The 92.30 area is quite an important level. I do
expect it to be eroded and to move up on towards 94 in the next
few days.”  Recent reports in  Asia  have relieved pessimism that weighed
on the Aussie. Chinese government data this month showed that
the nation’s manufacturing industry expanded at the fastest pace
in 16 months, while export growth and industrial output beat
economist forecasts. In Australia, a report last week showed
economic growth unexpectedly accelerated last quarter.  Westpac’s Positive Surprise Index for Asia, which shows if
data beat or missed economists’ expectations, rose to 71.97 on
Sept. 6, a level unseen since January 2011.  “If we can break through the 92.30-92.40 key resistance
level, then we can get to 93 cents,” said Westpac’s Cavenagh.  Bottomed Out  Technical indicators are signaling that the Aussie has
bottomed out and may recover some of its losses this year. Its
89-day moving average is currently sitting at 93.07 cents. That
level crosses the upper end of the cloud on the daily Ichimoku
chart.  “The Australian dollar is supported around the 89 U.S.
cents level,” said IG’s Ishikawa. “The 89-day moving average
has been a strong resistance point since April 16, so whether
the Aussie can break above that would be the key to whether it
can resume higher.”  The Aussie rose above the lower end of the Ichimoku cloud
last week for the first time since May. Its conversion line,
which plots the sum of the highest high and lowest low over the
prior nine data points, climbed above the base line, which uses
the same calculation over the past 26 points. Both are bullish
signals for the currency, Ishikawa said.  The cloud refers to the area between the first and second
span lines on the chart and is used to show an area where
trading orders may be clustered.  Net Shorts  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was
71,506 on Sept. 3. It reached 76,779 on Aug. 6, the most bearish
on record going back to January 1993, according to figures from
the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “The market is still quite short the Aussie,” said  Joseph Capurso , a Sydney-based currency strategist at  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender. The  U.S. dollar  will
give up some of its recent gains as “the market reevaluates the
risk of the Fed tapering its asset purchases.”  There’s a “good chance the Aussie could get close to 94
cents” in the coming one to two weeks.  The Australian dollar had held above $1 from June 2012 to
May 9, the longest stretch above parity since it was freely
floated in 1983. It depreciated as  China ’s outlook deteriorated
and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled a
reduction in the U.S. central bank’s bond purchase program,
which tends to debase the greenback.  Below Parity  “The Australian dollar sub-90 had all the bad news priced
in -- speculative shorts at all-time high,  interest rates 
falling to record lows and China’s economy slowing,” said
Minori Uchida, the Tokyo head of global market research at the
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., unit of  Japan ’s biggest bank
group by market value. “The currency looks close to a bottom,
but we need to continue to see improvement in Chinese data and
higher Australia’s terms of trade to see a solid rebound.”  The RBA refrained from cutting interest rates last week and
omitted a reference to scope for further stimulus.  Interest-rate
swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders see a 34 percent
chance the central bank will reduce benchmark borrowing costs
from a record 2.5 percent this year.  “RBA policy makers were quite happy when the Aussie was
down towards 90,” said Rochford’s Mumford. “If we get the
Aussie back towards 97-98, they will start to talk the Aussie
down again and put further rate cuts back on the table, but at
the moment, I think they’re very much on hold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  