-- Australia Business Sentiment Surges to Highest Since ‘11 on Vote
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-09-10T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/australia-business-sentiment-surges-to-highest-since-11-on-vote.html
Australian business confidence
surged to the highest level since May 2011 as prospects of a
change of government lifted sentiment in all industries, a
private survey showed.  The  confidence index  for August jumped to 6 from minus 3,
according to a National Australia Bank Ltd. survey released
today of more than 600 companies taken Aug. 20 to Sept. 3. The
 business conditions  gauge, a measure of hiring, sales and
profits, was minus 6 compared with minus 7 in July.  Tony Abbott’s coalition, which ousted the Labor government
of Kevin Rudd on Sept. 7, is pledging to cut red tape and lower
taxes to boost the $1.5 trillion economy as a China-led mining
investment boom crests. Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens and his board cut the benchmark rate to a fresh record
of 2.5 percent last month to help revive non-resource
industries.  “The cash rate cut in August and a lower Australian dollar
may have helped sentiment, but it appears more important were
political factors,” NAB Chief Economist  Alan Oster  said in the
report. “This appears to reflect expectations of political
change and more certainty about future political frameworks.”  The local dollar has declined 11.1 percent this year as
central bank easing abroad discourages investors from buying the
Australian currency. That has helped ease pressure on industries
including manufacturing and services.  Still, “business conditions and capacity utilization
remained poor,” Oster said. “Particularly concerning was a
slump in employment conditions, the weakest since May 2009,
painting a worrying outlook for the labor market.”  Traders are pricing in a 63 percent chance the central bank
will keep rates unchanged this year, according to  interest-rate
swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg. The RBA has eased borrowing
costs by 2.25 percentage points since November 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  