-- Austrian Banks' East Europe Asset Quality Uncertain: IMF
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-09-10T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/austrian-banks-east-europe-asset-quality-uncertain-imf.html
Austrian bank assets in eastern
 Europe , the former communist bloc where they are the biggest
lenders, may be in worse shape than reported because of
shortcomings in data, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Figures show that about a sixth of the loans of Austrian
banks in central, eastern and south-eastern Europe are
officially 90 days overdue. The ratio is worsening, and even
that number may gloss over the true level of impaired debt, the
IMF said in a report published today. The three biggest banks in
 Austria  and eastern Europe are  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI)  and UniCredit Bank Austria AG.  “Bank asset quality on a consolidated basis is
deteriorating and is difficult to assess with full confidence
owing to shortcomings in data,” the Fund said in the Financial
Sector Stability Assessment, an exam it gives  member states 
every five years. “Loan provisioning may be inadequate in some
countries” such as Romania, Hungary, Croatia and Slovenia, it
said.  While Austria accounts for just 3 percent of the euro
area’s economy, it is significant beyond its size for the
economies to its east. Its banks that set up operations there
have piled up lending to the tune of 326 billion euros ($432
billion). The risk that the expansion may trigger large bank
rescues has weighed on  Austrian debt  costs in some periods,
while tighter rules imposed by Austrian authorities have caused
concerns that the region may face a credit crunch.  Capital Buffers  While their  capital ratios  have improved over the last five
years, Austrian banks continue to lag their euro area peers and
are bolstered by state aid that will eventually have to be
repaid, the IMF said, echoing warnings from the Austrian central
bank. Regulators should consider imposing dividend restrictions,
the IMF said.  “There is no room for complacency in the current
environment, and Austrian banks will need to build stronger
capital buffers above regulatory requirements,” the Fund said.  Erste  sold new shares  in July to help repay support it got
from Austria in 2009. Raiffeisen still relies on 1.75 billion
euros of state funding to prop up its capital reserves and is
resisting pressure to sell new shares and scale down dividends.  Quality Concerns  The economic crisis triggered a series of downturns and
burst real-estate bubbles across emerging Europe starting in
2008, giving rise to concerns at the IMF and other international
lenders about asset quality and data accuracy.  Published figures may understate bad loans because they
don’t classify all debt as distressed if a borrower defaults on
one liability. Banks may also report loans as performing even if
they have been restructured, the IMF said, adding that bringing
together bank regulation under the auspices of the  European
Central Bank  may yield better data.  “Upcoming bank asset quality reviews by the ECB should
provide a more robust basis for assessing the strength of the
balance sheets of Austrian banks and the policy responses that
may be needed,” the IMF said.  Nationalized banks Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG,
Kommunalkredit Austria AG, KA Finanz AG and  Oesterreichische
Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  will cause further “significant, though
manageable” cost for Austrian taxpayers, the IMF said. Setting
up a bad bank for Hypo Alpe and allowing KA Finanz to operate
without a banking license could speed up wind-down.  Austria should speed up the creation of a bank resolution
authority and it should be funded by the bank levy, the IMF
said. Its existing deposit insurance plan, a fragmented and
unfunded program that has failed to prevent bailouts, should be
replaced by a single pre-funded option, the Fund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  