-- Tax-Free Debt Returning 13% Lure Buyers After Rout: India Credit
-- B y   D i v y a   P a t i l   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-09-11T07:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/tax-free-debt-returning-13-lure-buyers-after-rout-india-credit.html
Tax-free corporate bonds returning
the equivalent of 13 percent are helping lure investors back as
India’s debt market emerges from an unprecedented rout amid
confidence in new central bank governor  Raghuram Rajan .  Rural Electrification (RECL)  Corp. sold  10-year (GIND10YR)  securities in late
August at 8.01 percent, or about 180 basis points below regular
notes. For buyers, the return is the same as that from taxable
debt that pays 12.1 percent. National Housing Bank’s 15-year
issuance offered the equivalent of a 12.8 percent yield. Both
companies scrapped plans for conventional bond sales last month
as borrowing costs surged amid a cash crunch created by the
central bank to shore up the rupee.  State companies’ bonds with untaxed interest income offer
the best combination of returns and safety now in India, where
financial-market volatility surged last month to levels not seen
since the global credit crisis, according to SBI Capital Markets
Ltd. Top-rated  five-year  regular corporate yields fell 41 basis
points in September to 9.82 percent, after climbing 197 basis
points in the last three months in the biggest jump on record. A
 similar  rate in  China  is at 5.19 percent.  “Tax-free bonds are offering possibly the highest returns
and are appear to be the best safeguard against the volatility
in financial markets at present,” Ashish Sable, Mumbai-based
vice president at SBI Capital, a unit of India’s biggest lender,
said in an interview on Sept. 6. “Conventional investment modes
may offer returns that don’t entirely cover the risks of
inflation and the implications of weaker rupee.”  Funding Infrastructure  India has allowed 13 state companies to offer a record 480
billion rupees ($7.5 billion) of debt without levies this fiscal
year, a finance-ministry circular obtained by  Bloomberg News 
last month showed. The government is encouraging such issuance
to fund a plan to attract as much as $1 trillion in investments
by 2017 to improve infrastructure ranked worse than Kazakhstan
and  Guatemala  by the  World Economic Forum .  The program is a “huge success,” according to  Edelweiss
Financial Services Ltd. (EDEL) , with investors seeking to lock in the
high returns as secondary-market yields fall from recent highs.
The rate on 10-year  government bonds  has dropped 79 basis points
from an Aug. 19 peak of 9.23 percent on optimism the RBI will
succeed in restoring financial stability.  Governor Rajan, who took charge on Sept. 5, signaled steps
to make it easier for banks to swap dollar deposits, curb bad
debt and boost lending. Credit-default swaps insuring the bonds
of  State Bank  of India, a proxy for the sovereign, against non-payment for five years have fallen 39 basis points from a 14-month high of 372 on Aug. 20, according to data provider CMA.  ‘Grabbing Opportunity’  “Investors are aware that yields may not sustain at these
high levels and so, they are grabbing the opportunity to invest
in tax-free bonds,” Ajay Manglunia, head of fixed-income at
Edelweiss Financial, a Mumbai-based brokerage, in an interview
yesterday. “The notes are offering a very attractive pricing.”  Rural Electrification, a state-controlled lender to power
projects, raised more than 43 billion rupees in the past two
weeks selling untaxed securities to institutional and individual
investors.  Power Finance (POWF)  Corp. borrowed 11.2 billion rupees and
National Housing got 9 billion rupees. India Infrastructure
Finance Co. picked up 30 billion rupees, while Housing & Urban
Development Corp. sold 1.9 billion rupees of debt.  Indian Railway Finance Corp., the financing arm of the
state rail network, and India Infrastructure Finance can raise
as much as 100 billion rupees each, according to the finance-ministry document. Housing & Urban Development Corp., Rural
Electrification, Power Finance Corp and National Highways
Authority of India can offer as much as 50 billion rupees each.  ‘Tried, Tested’  “Investor outlook on tax-free instruments is positive as
these are being issued by public sector companies and offer
competitive post-tax returns,” R.V. Verma, New Delhi-based
managing director at National Housing Bank, said in an interview
on Sept. 6. “There is good appetite for these notes as these
are tried and tested instruments, offer a good lock-in rate for
the long-term and are highly rated, thereby ensuring safety.”  A government plan to market tax-free bonds to international
buyers may fall short of expectations because foreigners pay
smaller local levies than domestic buyers, according to
Edelweiss’s Manglunia.  India  will allow investors including
sovereign wealth funds to invest in such debt for the first
time, according to the finance ministry document.  “Foreign investors have to pay 5 percent withholding tax,
making little difference between investing in tax-free and
taxable debt,” said Manglunia. “The Indian investor is in the
30 percent tax bracket, so it makes a huge kicker for them.”  Foreign Investors  Global funds have  pulled  $8.8 billion from rupee debt since
the end of May, exchange data show. The Indian currency lost
13.9 percent this year, the worst performance in  Asia  after
 Indonesia ’s rupiah. The rupee was little changed today in Mumbai
at 63.835 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Tax-free bonds are long-tenor investments, and foreigners
prefer short-term securities,” said Manglunia. “Only if the
currency stabilizes and confidence is restored, we may see
sovereign wealth funds and overseas investors invest a little
bit in these securities.”  The success of untaxed debt sales by state-controlled firms
that build or finance infrastructure projects would boost fund
availability for new roads,  power plants  and ports in India,
helping spur growth in an economy that expanded 5 percent in the
year ended March 31, the least since 2003.  “The yield levels are encouraging for investors and a
strong subscription would go a long way in giving a boost to the
economy as a whole,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, Mumbai-based chief
economist at  Bank of Baroda (BOB)  in a telephone interview yesterday.
“It will be an encouraging development for the infrastructure
sector, which has been sluggish for quite some time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Divya Patil in Mumbai at 
 dpatil7@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  