-- Barclays CEO Sees Risk of Property Boom Amid U.K. Recovery
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-09-11T09:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/barclays-ceo-sees-risk-of-property-boom-as-u-k-recovery-starts.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Antony Jenkins  said Britain runs the risk of a property
boom as the economy starts to recover.  “We are seeing probably a more buoyant housing market for
the first time in perhaps as much as a decade,” Jenkins, 52,
said yesterday at a conference in  New York . “That’s a bit
concerning because there is the risk of a property-driven boom
in the U.K. The regulators are on it and don’t intend to let it
happen, but these things can be difficult to control.”  A U.K. house-price gauge rose to the highest in almost
seven years in August as the economic recovery gathered pace and
government measures intended to ease the supply of mortgages
boosted demand, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors
said yesterday. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  this
week defended his Help-to-Buy plan amid criticism it may be
fueling a bubble in  house prices , saying it’s “sensible” and
needed to help the market.  Jenkins said consumers are spending more than a year ago,
citing the firm’s data on customers’ purchasing. Even so,
they’re shopping for bargains on the Internet and eating out at
cheaper restaurants, he said.  “The recovery still feels to me as if it’s beginning,” he
said. “The sorts of things you’d expect to fuel economic growth
in the U.K. seem to me to be still quite weak. The data is
better than people expected, but still not great.”  Barclays, which offers mortgages through its Woolwich
brand, climbed 0.1 percent to 306.15 pence as of 10:14 a.m. in
London trading today. The stock has risen 17 percent in London
trading this year, the second-biggest gainer out of Britain’s
five largest lenders after Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  