-- Barossa’s Powell Plans Wine Venture With Son Following Torbreck
-- B y   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-09-10T13:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/barossa-s-powell-plans-wine-venture-with-son-following-torbreck.html
David Powell, founder of Torbreck
Vintners in  South Australia ’s Barossa Valley, said he plans a
new wine venture in the region with his son after leaving the
business he built up over the past 19 years.  Powell, 51, said he was “saddened” by events that led to
his departure following contractual and commercial disagreements
with Pete Kight, who has controlled the winery since 2008.
Powell’s son Callum is currently studying winemaking in  France 
with Rhone producer Jean-Louis Chave and his wife Erin.  Powell helped develop  Torbreck  into one of the leading
wineries in the Barossa Valley, northeast of Adelaide. Its wines
are based on the area’s classic Shiraz, Grenache and Mataro
grapes, and it exports two-thirds of its output.  “I can create a new business with my son,” Powell said by
phone today. “I’ll certainly give my son advice. I have a lot
of contacts in the Barossa.”  Powell said that day-to-day winemaking at Torbreck had been
“very much under my control” up until his departure. Craig
Isbel will head up the grower’s winemaking team, providing
continuity, Kight said by phone Sept. 5.  Isbel, who joined the business in 2004, has played a
leading role in the winery since 2006 and has two assistant
winemakers, Scott McDonald and Russell Burns, according to
Torbreck’s website.  “We’ve focused very hard on  Asia ,” said Kight, who
invested in the winery five years ago. He said he sees Torbreck
operating globally and has a management committee to guide the
winery’s strategy.  Kight also owns  Quivira Vineyards & Winery  in  California ’s
Dry Creek Valley, north of the Russian River region in Sonoma
County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guy Collins in London at 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe at 
 psillitoe@bloomberg.net  