-- Beer, Soft-Drink Makers Say London Metal Rule Changes Fall Short
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-09-10T21:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/beer-soft-drink-makers-say-london-metal-rule-changes-fall-short.html
Proposed rule changes by the London
Metal Exchange don’t go far enough to help alleviate warehouse
backlogs that increase costs, according to a group of brewers
and soft-drink makers that use aluminum in cans.  The LME’s plan to speed up withdrawals from stockpiles in
warehouses where wait times exceed 100 calendar days “falls
short in terms of providing an efficient function for physical
delivery,” the group said in a letter to the LME that was
obtained by  Bloomberg News . The group, which includes the  Beer
Institute  and the  American Beverage Association , two Washington-based trade organizations, said the 100-day wait measure is
“arbitrary,” and the plan may delay delivery and increase
costs for users.  Global aluminum costs were inflated by $3 billion in the
past year through “unfair” rules that allow Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other warehouse owners to
slow deliveries, Tim Weiner, a global risk manager at Chicago-based MillerCoors LLC., said in written testimony before his
appearance July 23 at a U.S. Senate subcommittee hearing in
 Washington .  Market participants are being consulted until Sept. 30 on
the LME’s proposed rule changes, which would include having
warehouses deliver more metal than they take in, based on a
formula, the exchange has said.  “The changes we seek are simple and straightforward,”
 Christopher Thorne , a spokesman for the Beer Institute, said in
a telephone interview. “We want to end delays in obtaining our
metal. We want to end any practices that are purposefully
inflating storage costs or other premiums associated with the
current warehouse delays. And we’d like to see more transparency
on the part of the LME management.”  The aluminum-users group requested a meeting with LME
officials. The LME’s board is expected to review the plan in
October, and the proposal would take effect April 1 if approved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  