-- Bettman Says NHL Could Further Reduce Goalie Pads After Changes
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2013-09-10T19:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/bettman-says-nhl-could-further-reduce-goalie-pads-after-changes.html
The  National Hockey League  may cut
the size of goaltender equipment again after it shortens leg
pads by about two inches this season to try to increase scoring,
Commissioner Gary Bettman said today.  The league and its players’ union agreed this offseason to
reduce the maximum length of goalie pads, according to  NHL.com ,
after scoring dropped for the fourth consecutive season. Bettman
said the league is exploring additional changes.  “We’re looking at other things that we can do to reduce
the size of the equipment and open up more space to shoot at,”
Bettman said at the Bloomberg Sports Business Summit hosted by
 Bloomberg Link  in New York. “But we have to be careful because,
again, goalies are important, valuable, and we don’t want them
needlessly hurt.”  The league’s previous rules, instituted prior to the
2010-11 season, said that a goalie’s leg pads could extend no
higher than  55 percent  of the distance between his knee and
pelvis, according to the NHL’s website. That number will be
reduced to 45 percent, which would shorten the average goalie’s
pads by two inches.  “I’m sure there will be a bit of an adjustment period, but
it’s something I’ve gone through and the other goalies have gone
through before,” Corey Crawford of the Stanley Cup-champion
Chicago Blackhawks was quoted by NHL.com as saying last month.
“I just hope it’s not something that leads to injuries.”  Scoring Down  NHL teams combined to average 5.44 goals per game last year, 
according to hockey-reference.com. That marked the fourth 
consecutive season of decreased scoring, from 5.83 goals per game 
in 2008-09.  “Goaltenders want to be competitive with each other and if
somebody is wearing something big, somebody else says, ‘Well, I
need to be as big,’” Bettman said. “We want them to be safe,
we want them to be protected, but part of goalie equipment isn’t
intended to protect the net against the puck.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  