-- BlackRock’s Kapito Says Emerging Markets Offer Opportunities
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-09-10T04:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/blackrock-s-kapito-says-emerging-markets-offer-buy-opportunities.html
Emerging markets  offer good long-term buying opportunities as economies globally improve,  Robert
Kapito , co-founder and president of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said.  There is too much short-termism in investing and foreign
investors should be diversified in order to survive this period
of market  volatility , Kapito said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Susan Li  today. BlackRock is the world’s largest
money manager with $3.9 trillion in assets.  Kapito made the comments after BlackRock’s chief investment
strategist in fixed-income,  Jeffrey Rosenberg , said
in an interview published yesterday that losses in emerging-market debt may deepen as outflows worsen. Kapito said the
weakness in emerging markets is “overdone” and he expects
equity markets to perform better than fixed income.  “The emerging markets are going to account for about 60 to
65 percent of the world’s growth over the next 20 years,” said
Kapito. “If you are investing for the long term, this is a good
opportunity to get reinvested into the emerging markets.”  Investors have pulled out money from emerging markets amid
speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will start to curtail
easing policies as soon as this month, marking an end to cheap
money inflows that had propped up asset prices from  India  to
 China  and  Indonesia .  Those who had moved into developed equity markets have the
ability to move back into emerging markets “very quickly,”
Kapito said. “It’s a little bit of an overdone situation on the
downside and we’re starting to see movements back in.”  Bond Funds  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress on May 22 that
the central bank could scale back the pace of its $85 billion of
mortgage bond and Treasuries purchases if the  U.S. economy 
showed sustained improvement.  Exchange data show foreign institutions pulled $8.4 billion
from Indonesian, Korean and Thai stocks this year amid signs of
slowing regional economic growth. The MSCI Southeast Asia Index
has dropped about 17 percent from the May peak.  Investors have taken $22.1 billion out of emerging-market
bond funds since the end of April, almost five times the
withdrawal from U.S. corporate credit, according to data
provider EPFR Global.  That reversed the trend that saw $58.8 billion pour into
funds that buy emerging-market debt last year, chasing yield
amid a U.S. stimulus program that’s  funneled  more than $2.6
trillion into the financial system since September 2008.  The worst outflow from emerging markets has yet to be seen,
Rosenberg said in a telephone interview with  Bloomberg News .
Losses for emerging-market debt have the potential to
accelerate, he said, adding the rout may eventually present a
buying opportunity.  Global Improvements  Kapito expects equity markets to perform better than fixed-income markets.  “We do see improvements around the world, which will put
pressure on fixed income, but that will actually help
equities,” he said.  Investors can take measures to mitigate risks on potential
increases in  interest rates  by investing at the short-end of the
yield curve and looking for securities that are less interest-rate sensitive, he said.  The U.S., which went into a recession five years ago as
spiraling home values prompted a credit seizure, will probably
grow by 2.7 percent next year and 3 percent in 2015 from 1.6
percent this year, a Bloomberg survey of 73 economists shows.  The Fed this month will taper its monthly bond purchases to
$75 billion from the current $85 billion pace, according to the
median estimate of 34 economists  surveyed  on Sept. 6 by
Bloomberg News. The next meeting of the Fed’s policy making Open
Market Committee is scheduled for Sept. 17 and 18.  Asia Hires  Bill Gross , co-founder Pacific Investment Management Co.
and manager of the world’s biggest bond mutual fund, said the
Fed will go ahead with a plan to reduce the unprecedented asset
purchases even with the disappointing jobs report.  The addition of 169,000 workers last month trailed the
180,000 median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Kapito said that BlackRock, which already employs more than
2,000 people in Asia and manages more than $300 billion in long-term assets, continues to hire in the region.  “As the market grows, we need to do the appropriate amount
of research,” he said. “I expect this to be the most important
region in the world” for BlackRock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  