-- BMW to Fix Supply-Chain Delays by Month’s End, Executives Say
-- B y   A n g e l a   M a i e r
-- 2013-09-10T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/bmw-to-fix-supply-chain-delays-by-month-s-end-executives-say.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, will resolve the supply
chain debacle that delayed the delivery of spare parts around
the world by the end of this month, top executives said.  “We regret this and will resolve the problem in September
for sure,” Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said at a
press briefing at the International Auto Show in Frankfurt. “By
the end of September,” the spare parts supply will function
again as usual,  Peter Schwarzenbauer , head of after sales and
parts, said in an interview at the show.  Thousands of customers have suffered long waits for BMW
components because of a changeover to a new logistic management
system in the central warehouse in Dingolfing, Germany, at the
beginning of June.  The delays have caused ripple effects globally because
orders for Munich-based BMW’s 40 parts-distribution centers
originate at the main facility in Dingolfing. Customers from
Australia,  South Africa , Belgium, Romania, Canada and the U.S.
have e-mailed  Bloomberg News  citing waiting times of as long as
three months for components to fix their vehicles.  In  Germany , where some dealers are supplied directly by
Dingolfing, about 3,000 BMW customers had to wait an unusually
long time to get their cars repaired because of missing parts,
Schwarzenbauer said. In the rest of the world, a smaller
proportion of customers was affected because BMW had filled up
its 40 global distribution centers before the system change.  Six-Day Shifts  A couple of managers traveled from Munich 100 kilometers
(62 miles) northeast to Dingolfing on a Saturday in July
voluntarily to help employees fill the central warehouse,
Schwarzenbauer said. Workers there have worked in three shifts
six days a week since June to get parts to the distribution
center and repair shops as quickly as possible, he said.  “This was the biggest data change-over at BMW in the last
20 years,” Reithofer said.  About 10 percent of parts aren’t immediately available in
Dingolfing because of the logistics changeover, Schwarzenbauer
said. “Parts logistics is among the most complex topics I
know,” he said. “Looking back, we should have completed this
two to three weeks earlier.”  The logistics project -- named ATLAS for Advanced parTs
Logistics in After Sales -- was started in Dingolfing in 2009,
according to a joint press release at the time from
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  SAP AG. (SAP)   IBM, which was the main contractor, said last month that
it’s no longer involved in setting up the program. SAP is
supplying the software for the warehouse management system, the
Walldorf, Germany-based company said. BMW declined to comment on
its suppliers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Maier in Frankfurt at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  