-- BOE Orders Review of Risk to Banks From Interest Rates
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-09-10T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/boe-orders-review-of-risk-to-banks-from-interest-rates.html
The Financial Stability Board, led
by  Bank of England  Governor  Mark Carney , said that his central
bank may need to boost the number of regulators focusing on
small lenders.  The oversight of small firms is “largely reactive,” the
FSB, a group of central bankers and regulators, said in a report
published on its website today. Only 150 supervisors focus on
1,300 “lower impact firms,” while 400 oversee the biggest 100
lenders.  It’s common for senior regulators and central bankers to
have positions on various national and international regulatory
agencies. Carney, who relinquished his role as  Bank of Canada 
chief to become governor of the Bank of England in July, has
also been chairman of the FSB since November 2011.  The Bank of England took over banking supervision from the
Financial Services Authority in April. The FSA had been
criticized for not doing enough to prevent the 2008 financial
crisis, which led to the 66 billion-pound ($103.7 billion)
bailouts of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc. (LLOY)   The Prudential Regulation Authority, the Bank of England
unit that took over as the country’s banking regulator in April,
may need to reallocate staff “should the need arise,” the FSB
said. The PRA may also need to reassess whether it has enough
resources to effectively carry out regular stress tests of
lenders starting next year, said the FSB.  Satisfy Mandate  “It is unclear whether the number of frontline supervisors
overseeing smaller firms, which collectively can pose risks to
financial stability, will be sufficient to satisfy the mandate
of the PRA and ensure their effective oversight,” the FSB said
in the report.  Oversight of markets was given to the Financial Conduct
Authority at the same time as the PRA took over banking
supervision.  The two new agencies must “enhance formal and informal
relationship building” to strengthen financial stability in the
U.K., the FSB said.  The FSB, which is based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , is formed of
senior regulators and central bankers and reports to the leaders
of the Group of 20 Nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  