-- BOE Mulls Plastic Banknotes to Combat Fraud and Boost Durability
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-10T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/boe-mulls-plastic-banknotes-to-combat-fraud-and-boost-durability.html
The Bank of England is considering
a switch from paper to plastic banknotes, and plans to ask
Britons for their opinion on such a move.  Announcing a public consultation in  London  today, BOE
Governor Mark Carney said polymer notes are cleaner, more secure
and more durable than paper notes. The central bank will
announce its decision in December and, if the move goes ahead,
the first plastic notes could appear as soon as 2016 and feature
a picture of Winston Churchill.  “The Bank of England would print notes on polymer only if
we were persuaded that the public would continue to have
confidence in, and be comfortable with, our notes,” Carney
said. The consultation will be “vital” to the assessment.  A number of countries already produce plastic notes,
including  Canada , where Carney was previously the central bank
governor. Banknotes are currently manufactured from cotton fibre
and linen rag and printed by  De La Rue Plc (DLAR)  at the BOE’s Debden
site in Essex in a contract due to end in 2015. A tender process
is under way to replace that.  Victoria Cleland, head of the BOE’s Notes Division, said De
La Rue’s contract to print banknotes is valued at about 30
million pounds ($47 million) to 40 million pounds a year.  The BOE has been researching the materials used in notes
for three years. Printing on polymer would bring “considerable
benefits,”  Deputy Governor Charlie Bean said, noting
resistance to dirt and the ability to include “windows” or
clear portions that make counterfeiting more difficult. The BOE
will run the public consultation until Nov. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  