-- Brazil Chief Economists Tell Senators to Seek Clear Fiscal Rules
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-09-10T18:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/brazil-chief-economists-tell-senators-to-seek-clear-fiscal-rules.html
Chief economists from some of
 Brazil ’s largest banks told senators the country needs more
transparent fiscal rules to help improve business confidence and
drive economic growth.  Investors in Brazil have little tolerance for economic
surprises, and the country needs to do more to consolidate the
independence of its central bank, Octavio de Barros, chief
economist at Bradesco, told a Senate hearing in Brasilia today.
Flexibility in the fiscal surplus target brings extra risks to
the economy, said Credit Suisse chief economist Nilson Teixeira.
Sticking to defined economic goals would help, said Itau
Unibanco chief economist  Ilan Goldfajn .  The economists raised concern as to whether President Dilma Rousseff’s government can keep fiscal accounts in order while
trying to steer the world’s second-largest emerging market out
of a period of low growth and high inflation.  Standard & Poor’s 
put Brazil’s credit rating on negative outlook in June, saying
the move was triggered in part by a weaker fiscal policy.
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said on Aug. 29 it’s too early to
define next year’s primary surplus goal, a gauge for public
spending, and added that the target may shift depending on state
and city results.  “If there were transparent indicators, then things would
be easier,” Goldfajn said today.  Spending Cuts  Brazil can cut as much as 58 billion reais ($25.4 billion)
from next year’s primary budget surplus target, which excludes
interest payments and could fluctuate from 2.1 percent of gross
domestic product to 3.2 percent for 2014, according to Mantega.
The government this year is targeting a goal of 2.3 percent of
GDP.  Standardizing economic targets would improve visibility,
Teixeira said at today’s hearing. Brazil has shown little
willingness for long-term reforms, and should consider
legislation that limits increases in public sector expenditures,
Barros said.  Brazil’s economy  grew  1.5 percent during the second
quarter, or an annualized 6 percent, on the back of faster
investments. That was the fastest growth since the first quarter
of 2010 and more than all 44 forecasts from analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, whose median estimate was 0.9 percent.  The central bank on Aug. 28 raised the benchmark Selic by a
half-percentage point to 9 percent, the fourth straight
increase. Policy makers have boosted the rate by 175 basis
points since April, the fastest pace of monetary tightening
among major world economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Annual inflation measured by the IPCA index decelerated in
 August (BZPIIPCY)  to 6.09 percent, the slowest since December, the national
statistics agency said Sept. 6. Brazil targets annual inflation
at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  