-- British Land Wins Approval for Luxury London Apartments
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-09-11T09:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/british-land-wins-approval-for-luxury-london-apartment-project.html
     Sept. 11 (Bloomberg) -- British Land Co. won local-government approval to build luxury apartments near  The Ritz 
hotel in London’s Mayfair district as foreign demand boosts home
prices in the city center.  British Land, the U.K.’s second-largest real estate
investment trust, can demolish properties at 82-84 Piccadilly
and develop four buildings that will also have offices and a
club, the Westminster borough council decided late yesterday in
a 6-0 vote. The company can sell 36 apartments on the open
market, while 11 units will be affordable housing.  Home values in Mayfair have risen 139 percent since 2005,
the most of any district in London,  Savills Plc (SVS)  said in a report
today. The average U.K. home has fallen more than 19 percent in
the same period, according to the broker.  “The residential building is located fronting onto
Piccadilly, making best use of the prestigious address and views
afforded into and over Green Park,” Squire & Partners wrote in
a filing to the borough on behalf of British Land. “This
reflects the historic residential nature of Piccadilly as a
street where the gentry’s London palaces were located.”  British Land will have to pay 1.85 million pounds ($2.91
million) toward affordable housing as a condition of approval.
The London-based company bought the buildings, a short walk from
Bond Street’s luxury stores, for 129.6 million pounds in July
2012. The project may generate a profit of more than 20 percent,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The new buildings together will have 26,620 square meters
(286,320 square feet) of space. The project is also close to the
former In and Out Club at 94 Piccadilly where billionaire
property investors David and Simon Reuben won approval to
develop what’s likely to become the U.K.’s most-expensive home.  Brokers Savills and Knight Frank LLP forecast in July that
luxury-home values in districts such as Mayfair, Belgravia and
Knightsbridge would rise 6 percent this year as a weakened pound
makes the market more attractive to overseas buyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  