-- Britain Backs Case for High-Speed Rail as Opposition Grows
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-09-11T10:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/britain-backs-case-for-high-speed-rail-as-opposition-increases.html
U.K. Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin defended government plans to build a high-speed rail
line between  London  and northern England amid growing opposition
to the near 50 billion-pound ($79 billion) project.  The High Speed 2 route is crucial to economic development,
McLoughlin said in a speech in London today. His comments came
as the British Chambers of Commerce declared its support for the
plan, known as HS2, and a KPMG LLP report estimated the benefits
at 15 billion pounds a year.  HS2 will act as a “heart bypass for the clogged arteries
of our transport system,” he said. “It will lift the long-distance burden from our overcrowded main lines so they can
concentrate on what they are best at: more local trains, more
freight trains.”  Opposition to HS2 has grown, with rank-and-file lawmakers
in Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party  joining
former Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling from the
opposition  Labour Party  in withdrawing their support. A report
by the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee said Sept. 9
that the government had failed to make a convincing case for the
line, which would run initially from London to Birmingham, with
a second phase connecting it to Manchester and Leeds.  ‘Compelling’  Ministers have voiced their support for HS2 in the past
week. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told lawmakers
yesterday that the line would change the “economic geography”
of Britain. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said on Sept. 9
it’s “the most compelling answer” to a shortfall in rail
capacity. Cameron said in a Twitter posting today that
McLoughlin’s speech marked the start of a government
“fightback” on HS2, which he said will deliver “huge
benefits.”  McLoughlin restated that the budget for HS2 remains 42.6
billion pounds, rejecting reports putting the likely cost at as
much as 80 billion pounds as “scare stories.” The government
will “bear down” on a 14.4 billion-pound contingency cost with
input from Oxford University’s Said Business School, he said.  In his address, McLoughlin cited a KPMG report commissioned
by HS2 Ltd. that finds the benefit to the U.K. economy by 2037
would be spread countrywide, supporting the coalition
government’s case that it would help rebalance an economy
weighted toward London and the south. HS2 Ltd. is a state-owned
company responsible for developing the network.  Economic Benefits  “These productivity benefits accrue to all regions, with
the strong gains in the Midlands and the North,” the report
said. “Though Greater London does well, it is not at the
expense of everywhere else. In fact, areas outside Greater
London and the Phase Two city regions account for around half of
the total forecast increase in G.B. economic output.”  John Longworth, director general of the British Chambers of
Commerce, and the leaders of 26 of its regional groupings wrote
to Cameron to give their backing to the line.  “Future business success depends on infrastructure
networks that meet demand -- rail is no exception,” according
to the letter published today. “The U.K. rail network must have
the capacity to meet rocketing business demand for long-distance
services, for commuter rail services, and for the transport of
freight.”  Main lines connecting the north and south of  England  will
be full in 15 years, according to the letter. It compared the
importance of HS2 to the building of the Channel Tunnel, the
London subway’s Jubilee Line and the M25 orbital motorway around
the capital, which were all vigorously opposed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  