-- Canadian Tire Said to Raise C$260 Million in REIT IPO
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-09-10T20:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/canadian-tire-files-for-real-estate-initial-public-offering.html
Canadian Tire Corp. (CTC/A) , the country’s
largest sporting goods retailer, plans to raise about C$260
million ($251 million) in an initial public offering of its
newly formed real estate investment trust, according to two
people familiar with the sale.  Canadian Tire is seeking to sell trust units of CT REIT for
C$10 apiece in the IPO, according to the people, who asked not
to be identified because the terms aren’t public. A message left
with Rob Nicol, a Canadian Tire spokesman, wasn’t immediately
returned.  Canadian Tire created CT REIT to spin off about 72 percent
of its real estate portfolio, the Toronto-based retailer said
today in a statement. CT REIT will acquire 255 Canadian Tire
stores and a distribution center, totaling 19 million square
feet, the company said.  Canadian retailers are selling off stakes in their real
estate portfolios, unlocking value from their stores in  North
America ’s largest cities.  Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC) , Canada’s oldest department store chain,
is considering a REIT after it closes its $2.4 billion takeover
of New York-based  Saks Inc. (SKS)  Loblaw Cos., Canada’s largest
grocery chain, raised C$400 million after selling a stake in its
 Choice Properties REIT. (CHP-U)   Canadian Tire said on May 9 that it planned to create a
C$3.5 billion REIT and sell units through an IPO this year. The
retailer planned to keep 80 percent to 90 percent of the REIT,
which would have a minimal effect on earnings, the company said
at the time.  Main Tenant  Canadian Tire will be CT REIT’s most significant tenant
“for the foreseeable future” with the company’s stores and
distribution center representing about 96 percent of the REIT’s
minimum rent in 2014, the company said today.  The IPO is led by Royal Bank of  Canada  and Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce.  REITs, which receive preferential tax treatment from the
government, are companies that invest in income-producing real
estate and pay out most of their income to investors through
unit distributions.  Canadian Tire  dropped  0.7 percent to C$91.65 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto, after earlier reaching a record high. The stock has
risen 32 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  