-- Canadian Dollar Reaches 3-Week High on Syria, Economic Growth
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-10T21:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/canadian-dollar-gains-for-third-day-before-housing-starts-report.html
The Canadian dollar gained for a
third day, touching a three-week high, as a Russian bid to get
 Syria  to surrender its chemical weapons that may avert a U.S.
attack boosted demand for riskier assets.  The currency advanced versus the majority of its 16 most-traded peers even after  Canada ’s federal housing agency said
housing starts in August posted their biggest drop in seven
months. The currency gained the previous two days against its
U.S. counterpart as data on building permits and employment
growth exceeded analysts’ forecasts. Yields on government 10-year bonds rose to a two-year high.  “There seems to be a slight shift towards a potential
diplomatic solution in Syria, which has eased the risk-aversion
trades,” said Matthew Perrier, director of foreign exchange at
Bank of  Montreal , by phone from Toronto. “We continue to
benefit from the stronger Canadian employment data on Friday.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.2 percent to
C$1.0349 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie buys
96.63 U.S. cents.  The currency earlier gained to C$1.0331, the strongest
intraday level since Aug. 19 and past its 100-day moving average
at C$1.0333. The loonie breached its 50-day moving average of
C$1.0406 yesterday. Breaking a moving average is a sign to some
traders a move has momentum.  Bonds, Oil  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bond  fell, with
yields rising seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
2.82 percent, the highest since July 2011. The 1.5 percent
security maturing in June 2023 lost 56 cents to C$88.89.  Futures of crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 2.1
percent to $107.23 per barrel in  New York  and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks gained 0.7 percent.  Housing starts  were 180,291 at a seasonally adjusted annual
pace last month, reported the Ottawa-based Canada Mortgage &
Housing Corp., down from 193,000 the previous month. The monthly
average this year is 184,701. Economists forecast a a reading of
190,000, according to the median of 21 responses to a Bloomberg
News survey.  A report yesterday showed Canadian building permits rose to
a record in July. The value of municipal permits climbed 20.7
percent to C$7.99 billion ($7.70 billion),  Statistics Canada 
said, with the gain exceeding all 10 forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey. Job growth in August was three times faster than the
average of analysts’ estimates, a report showed Sept. 6.  ‘Perfect Storm’  “It’s a perfect storm for Canadian dollar strength,”  John Curran , a senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an online
foreign exchange dealer, said by phone from Toronto. “The main
thing is the hangover from data on Friday and Monday, and the
possibility of a Russian-backed solution for Syria has further
strengthened the Canadian dollar.”  The  U.S. Senate  backed away from an immediate vote
authorizing a military strike against Syria as President  Barack
Obama , who will speak from the White House at 9 p.m., sought
time for international talks on eliminating that country’s
chemical weapons.  France  will ask the UN Security Council to approve a
resolution demanding that Syria place its chemical arms under
international control, Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said
today in Paris. The draft will call for Bashar al-Assad to be
punished for an Aug. 21 chemical-weapons attack that the U.S.
and allies say was carried out by his forces, Fabius said.  ‘Avoid War’  “The Canadian dollar is trading in step with global
sentiment on Syria,” Adam Button, a currency analyst at
forexlive.com, said by phone from Montreal. “There’s a credible
path to avoid war in Syria at the moment and that’s great news
for the Canadian dollar.”  The cost to insure the Canadian dollar against declines
versus its U.S. peer rose from its lowest point in more than
five weeks. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk-reversal
rate rose to 1.31 percent, after earlier dropping to 1.27
percent. Risk reversals measure the premium on options contracts
to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do
the opposite.  The loonie has dropped 1 percent in the past three months
versus nine developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The  New Zealand dollar  is the
biggest winner in that period with a 3.5 percent rise while the
Norwegian krone posted the biggest drop, at 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  