-- McDonald’s Testing Mobile Order App for U.S. Stores
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-09-10T20:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/mcdonald-s-testing-mobile-order-app-for-u-s-stores.html
Americans will soon be able to
order and pay for Big Macs from their mobile phones.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  is currently testing a mobile payment
application in  Salt Lake City  and in Austin, Texas, Lisa McComb,
a spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.  McDonald’s, which today reported U.S. same-store sales that
trailed estimates for August, is looking for ways to make it
easier for diners to load up on Big Macs, McWraps and smoothies.
It’s not alone in seeking to ignite growth at a time when many
Americans are eating out less.  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW)  offers
a delivery service with a $10 minimum order in some U.S. cities,
while  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  has a mobile ordering app.  “You have to look at the whole generation that’s coming up
and I think we’re moving to a cashless society,” Bob Goldin,
executive vice president at Chicago-based restaurant researcher
Technomic Inc., said in an interview. Mobile apps appeal to
millennials and teenagers, he said.  “It’s a worthwhile investment,” for McDonald’s, Goldin
said.  After ordering via a mobile phone, customers can pick up
food in stores, curbside or at drive-thru windows, according to
notes from a June meeting of McDonald’s franchisees and company
executives obtained by  Bloomberg News . The system will also
include special promotions, offers and a  loyalty program .  “While many competitors are publicizing their efforts to
get an initial foothold in the mobile arena, no one has
developed a comprehensive solution that integrates all the
opportunities this technology presents,” according to the
notes.  McDonald’s, based in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois ,  rose  0.5 percent
to $96.89 at the close in  New York . The shares  advanced  9.8
percent this year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed
18 percent.  ‘New Technologies’  “We’re always looking at new technologies to make the
McDonald’s experience better for our customers,” McComb said.
“We are testing some of these technologies in a few markets, so
it’s premature to speculate on the decisions we may make after
the tests, but we’re excited to bring a cutting-edge experience
in the future to our customers.”  McDonald’s, which gets about one-third of revenue from
domestic locations, is working to draw cash-strapped Americans
with new products including steak breakfast biscuits, chicken
wings and Quarter Pounders with different toppings and sauces.  The company already has a U.S. mobile phone app for
customers to locate restaurants, find nutrition information and
search for jobs that was introduced in 2011. The year before
that, the chain began offering free Wi-Fi at its restaurants
globally to encourage customers to stick around.  McDonald’s has about 34,700 locations worldwide, including
more than 14,100 in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  