-- McDonald’s August Sales Rise 1.9% Driven by Demand in Europe
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-09-10T20:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/mcdonald-s-august-sales-rise-1-9-driven-by-demand-in-europe.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, said sales at stores open at least 13
months advanced 1.9 percent last month, topping analysts’
estimates, helped by demand in Europe.  Analysts projected a 0.3 percent increase, the average of
16 estimates from Consensus Metrix. Same-store sales rose 3.3
percent in Europe, the biggest gain since June 2012, the  Oak
Brook , Illinois-based company said in a statement today.
Analysts estimated a 0.1 percent drop.  McDonald’s, which gets about 40 percent of  revenue  from
European nations, said it attracted customers in  France  and
 Russia  and benefited from the introduction of blended-ice
beverages in the U.K. Economic confidence in the euro area rose
to a two-year high in August as the currency bloc’s recovery
gathered pace after it exited a record-long recession.  “We’re hearing from other sectors that  Europe  is getting
better -- these results seem to indicate that things are a
little bit better” for McDonald’s, Peter Saleh, an analyst at
Telsey Advisory Group in  New York , said in an interview.  Same-store sales were positive in August after falling in
July in France, the fast-food chain’s largest European market
after  Germany . McDonald’s, which has more than 1,200 locations
in France, has been advertising combo meals including a Big
Tasty burger with Emmental cheese, to draw French diners.  The shares rose 0.5 percent to $96.89 at the close in New
York. McDonald’s has  advanced  9.8 percent this year, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Restaurants Index has gained 18 percent.  Chicken Wings  Same-store sales increased 0.2 percent in the U.S.,
trailing the 0.8 percent gain projected by analysts. The fast-food chain is facing a tough consumer environment in the U.S.,
where it’s attempting to draw Americans with new items including
chicken wings, egg-white breakfast sandwiches and different
flavored Quarter Pounder burgers.  McDonald’s is testing a new Dollar Menu that includes items
selling for as much as $5 in five markets across the U.S. The
chain is facing pressure from domestic store owners who have met
to discuss higher costs, including rents, and the increasingly
difficult economics of the Dollar Menu.  Comparable sales dropped 0.5 percent in the company’s Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa region. Analysts forecast a
decline of 1 percent, according to Consensus Metrix, a
researcher owned by Kaul Advisory Group in Wayne,  New Jersey .  Comparable-store sales are considered an indicator of
growth because they include only older, established locations.  There are more than 34,700 McDonald’s restaurants
worldwide, of which about 81 percent are franchised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  