-- China Shadow Banking Returns as Growth Rebound Adds Risks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-11T06:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/china-shadow-banking-returns-as-growth-rebound-adds-risks.html
China ’s broadest measure of  new 
credit almost doubled in August from the previous month in a
sign leaders are committed to meeting economic goals even at the
cost of adding financial risks.  Aggregate financing was 1.57 trillion yuan ($257 billion),
the People’s Bank of China said in Beijing yesterday, topping
the 950 billion yuan median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  New yuan loans  from banks accounted for about 45
percent of the total, down from July’s 87 percent, as non-traditional credit played a bigger role.  The first pickup in credit growth after an unprecedented
four straight declines, the fastest gain in industrial output in
17 months and above-forecast exports signal better odds that
Premier  Li Keqiang  will achieve his 7.5 percent expansion target
this year. The data also mark a resurgence in shadow banking
that poses risks for the financial system after a record credit
boom in the first quarter.  “If credit growth picks up persistently from here, China’s
current growth recovery may well last a bit longer and go a bit
further,” said Yao Wei, China economist at  Societe Generale  in
 Hong Kong . “However, that only adds to the downside risk
afterwards, as the leverage of Chinese corporates and local
governments keeps rising from the already alarmingly high
level.”  M2  money supply  growth accelerated to 14.7 percent, the
fastest in three months.  Growth Estimates  Deutsche Bank AG raised its estimate of third-quarter
economic expansion to 7.9 percent from 7.7 percent, the second
boost in a month, while UBS AG increased its projection to 7.7
percent from 7.5 percent.  China’s lending spree in recent years has evoked
comparisons to debt surges that tipped Asian nations into crisis
in the late 1990s and preceded  Japan ’s lost decades. China’s
ratio of credit to gross domestic product rose to 187 percent in
2012 from 105 percent in 2000, compared with Japan’s increase to
176 percent in 1990 from 127 percent in 1980, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. said in a July report.  Shadow lending, which allows banks to bypass controls and
capital requirements, is flourishing in China because an
estimated 97 percent of the nation’s 42 million small businesses
can’t get bank loans, according to Citic Securities Co. The
industry may be valued at 36 trillion yuan, or 69 percent of
gross domestic product, JPMorgan estimated in May.  Cash Squeeze  A government-engineered cash squeeze in June sent money-market  interest rates  to record highs and helped curb shadow
banking, reducing longer-term dangers while adding to forces
slowing economic growth. Now it appears that the crunch in
liquidity and credit is over,  Wang Tao , chief China economist at
UBS in Hong Kong, said yesterday.  Bankers’ acceptance bills and  entrusted loans , two of the
categories within aggregate financing, are “highly correlated
with shadow banking activities,” said Hu Yifan, chief economist
at Haitong International Securities Group in Hong Kong.  Yesterday’s figures showed entrusted loans of 293.8 billion
yuan in August, a record in data going back to 2002, after 192.7
billion yuan in July. Bankers’ acceptance  bills  were 304.5
billion yuan in August, compared to a 178.3 billion yuan decline
in July.  “The sudden pickup is a bad signal we should be alert to
and pay special attention to,” Hu said.  Tight Liquidity  The increase in bankers’ acceptance bills, which represent
promises of future payments, shows lenders are helping the
economy at a time of tight liquidity, said Dariusz Kowalczyk,
senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong
Kong.  “When Beijing orders stimulus, funds will be found and
growth will recover,” Kowalczyk said.  The government says debt risks are manageable. While the
cabinet in July ordered a nationwide audit of  government
borrowing , Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  last week called the scale
of local government debt controllable and said the risk of
default was “not great.”  Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said last week at a
Group of 20 nations summit that while China needs to strengthen
supervision of shadow banking, officials are aware that smaller
businesses need access to finance.  “The tricky thing is, ultimately the PBOC is able to
control the size of social financing and off-balance-sheet
lending at the money-supply end, which will then result in
overall tight liquidity,” said Ding Shuang, senior China
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong. “Yet it needs to
strike a balance and not be too tight in monetary policy.”  Bond Issuance  Aggregate financing rose from a 21-month low of 808.8
billion yuan in July. New yuan loans in August were 711.3
billion  yuan , compared with the 730 billion yuan median analyst
estimate.  Reorient Financial Markets Ltd., a China government-backed
investment bank, said in a note yesterday that the aggregate-financing number “should not be interpreted as a sign of a
resurgent shadow banking industry” because it represented a
recovery in bond issuance and rising business-to-business
lending, while trust loans were little changed from July.  Other data this week also illustrate Li’s challenge in
shifting away from an economic model dependent on debt and
overseas demand toward domestic consumption.  Industrial  output  grew 10.4 percent from a year earlier in
August, while retail sales for the month and fixed-asset
investment for the January-August period also topped analysts’
estimates, data from the statistics bureau showed yesterday.
Customs figures released Sept. 8 showed exports rose more than
estimated last month.  Recovery Trend  Premier Li said yesterday at a meeting with corporate
representatives in Dalian, China, that August indicators have
shown a trend of recovery. Monetary easing, adjusting
macroeconomic policies and increasing the deficit may have an
impact in the short run yet won’t necessarily be beneficial in
future, he said, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  “The stronger data over the last couple of months have
settled nerves about a possible hard landing,” and credit
growth should sustain investment spending, said  Mark Williams , a
former U.K. Treasury adviser on China who is now a London-based
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. “The omens for the short
term are good, but at the cost of making the economy’s
structural problems worse.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Hu Shen in Beijing at 
 hshen33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  