-- China August Home Sales Fall as Curbs and Prices Damp Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-10T08:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/china-august-home-sales-fall-as-curbs-and-prices-depress-demand.html
China’s home sales transaction
value fell for a second month in August from the previous month,
as rising prices strained buyers’ finances.  The  value of homes  sold dropped to 514.6 billion  yuan  ($84
billion) last month from 516.5 billion yuan in July, based on
the difference between the National Bureau of Statistics data
for the first eight and seven months of the year today. Housing
sales from January to August were up 35.7 percent to 3.85
trillion yuan from the same period a year earlier, according to
the data.  Home prices posted their biggest gains in August since
December, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s biggest
real estate website owner, hurting demand in the traditional low
season for property sales amid the government’s curbs. Former
Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March stepped up a three-year campaign to
cool home prices, ordering the central bank to raise down-payment requirements for second mortgages in cities with
excessive cost gains.  “Property sales in August weren’t really desirable,” Luo
Yu, a Shanghai-based analyst at advisory firm CEBM Group, wrote
in an e-mailed report after the data release, citing the rising
 home prices  amid slower sales. “We continue to be cautious with
sales expectations” for the traditional strong season of
September and October.  ‘Marginal Tightening’  A slower expansion in pre-sale proceeds and mortgage loans
indicated a “marginal tightening” in liquidity conditions
among developers, Luo wrote. Those indicators may continue to
slip on a year-on-year basis amid slower bank lending and
 economic growth , he added.  The growth in contract deposits and pre-sale receipts fell
6.6 percentage points from July to 38.1 percent last month,
while the pace of mortgage borrowing cooled by 5.7 percentage
points to 50.3 percent, today’s data show.  Investment in homes, office buildings, malls and other real
estate gained 19.3 percent to 5.21 trillion yuan in the first
eight months, the statistics bureau said in a statement on its
website today. New construction rose 4 percent to 1.28 billion
square meters (13.8 billion square feet).  Increasing Supplies  Not all were concerned about the drop in sales.  “A small decline like that doesn’t mean too much,” Dai Fang, a Shanghai-based property analyst at Zheshang Securities
Co., said by phone, referring to the decrease in August home
sales. “You can rest assured that sales numbers will
undoubtedly be higher this month,” he added, citing an expected
increase in supplies of new homes.  An  index  tracking property shares listed in Shanghai rose
3.3 percent at the close of trading, the most since July 11. The
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index gained 1.2 percent after
today’s data on industrial production and fixed-asset investment
exceeded economists’ estimates.  China ’s new home prices surged 8.6 percent last month from
a year earlier, to 10,442 yuan per square meter, SouFun said
last week after a survey of 100 cities.  The government should implement “relatively strict”
property controls to prevent a rebound in property prices, a
China Securities Journal commentary said today.  Home sales volume rose 24.4 percent in the first eight
months from a year earlier to 634 million square meters, the
government data showed today. Property sales value including
office buildings and retail space climbed 34.4 percent to 4.57
trillion yuan from a year ago, it showed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  