-- China Swap Rate Touches 1-Week High as Holiday Cash Demand Seen
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-10T03:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/china-swap-rate-touches-1-week-high-as-holiday-cash-demand-seen.html
China ’s one-year interest rate
swaps touched the highest level in a week on speculation demand
for cash will increase ahead of holidays this month and next.  The People’s Bank of China said yesterday it rolled over
85.1 billion  yuan  ($13.9 billion) of three-year notes at 3.5
percent, and that it will auction 50 billion yuan of treasury
deposits on Sept. 12. The central bank added 10 billion yuan to
the financial system via seven-day reverse-repurchase agreements
at 3.9 percent today, according to a statement on its website.
Chinese markets will be shut on Sept. 19-20 for the mid-Autumn
festival and Oct. 1-7 for the National Day holidays.  “Worries that the June interbank liquidity squeeze might
be repeated at end-September are wholly overdrawn,” Uwe Parpart, Hong Kong-based chief strategist with Reorient Group
Ltd., wrote in a report today. “Even with holidays and higher
liquidity demand in late September, we do not expect anything
like a June repeat. The PBOC has ample ammunition to prevent a
squeeze.”  The cost of one-year swap contracts, the fixed payment to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, added one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.13 percent as of 10:20 a.m. in
 Shanghai , data compiled by Bloomberg show. That matched the
highest since Sept. 4 reached yesterday.  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the banking system, increased five basis points to 3.61 percent,
a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center showed.  Chinese local administration financing vehicles’ reliance
on land sales and rising property prices to repay debt creates
“problems,” central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  wrote in a
commentary. Total government debt may be 15 trillion yuan to 18
trillion yuan,  China Daily  reported today, citing Zhou Quanhou,
head of financial research at the Fiscal Science Research Center
affiliated to the Ministry of Finance.  The yield on the government’s 4.08 percent bonds due August
2023 added one basis point to 4.09 percent, according to prices
from the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  