-- China Stocks Hit Bottom as Consumers to Spur Rally, Allianz Says
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-09-10T23:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/china-stocks-hit-bottom-as-consumers-to-spur-rally-allianz-says.html
The four-year low that the  Shanghai
Composite index  reached in June marked a bottom for Chinese
shares and the rally will continue, said Raymond Chan, Allianz
Global Investors’ chief investment officer for Asia Pacific.  “I don’t see much downside” in Chinese stocks, Chan, who
helps manage $409 billion at Allianz, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York yesterday. “ China  can
continue to deliver the growth, maybe a slower growth, but it’s
not going to crash.”  The Shanghai stock benchmark has rallied 15 percent since
June 27 to a three-month high, while the Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S.
surged to the highest level in 16 months yesterday in New York.
Government data this past week from exports to  industrial output 
for August exceeded economist estimates, signaling a recovery in
the world’s second-largest economy.  Allianz is “significantly overweight” in Chinese
equities, portfolio manager Kunal Ghosh said in the interview.
The company favors China’s consumer-driven sectors including
tourism, automobile, gaming in Macau, Internet, and new energy,
as the country shifts from an export-led economy to one focused
on domestic consumption, Chan said.  Among  emerging markets , Allianz is also overweight in
northern Asian countries such as South Korea, as well as
Singapore and  Taiwan . “They all have the same good problem,
which is the current-account surplus. That’s giving them a lot
of cushion,” Ghosh said.  Allianz has increased holdings in Indian exporters that
benefit from a weakening rupee, even if its economy is grappling
with a decline in foreign investment inflows and rising oil
prices, according to Ghosh. “The primary reason of the purchase
was the demand from the U.S. The rupee depreciation is working
as a tailwind,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  