-- China August Auto Sales Gain 11% as Economic Growth Rebounds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-10T07:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/china-s-august-auto-sales-gain-11-as-economic-growth-rebounds.html
China ’s passenger-vehicle sales
gained the most in four months in August, led by sales of  sport
utility vehicles , as the world’s second-biggest economy rebounds
from a two-quarter slowdown.  Wholesale deliveries of cars, multipurpose and sport
utility vehicles climbed 11 percent to 1.35 million units last
month, the biggest gain since April, according to the state-backed China Association of Automobile Manufacturers today. That
compared with the median estimate of 1.36 million units by five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  China’s economy  is picking up after Premier  Li Keqiang 
announced support measures such as tax cuts for small businesses
and extra spending on railways. The auto association is
predicting total vehicle sales in the country to exceed 20
million units this year for the first time.  “We are confident that SUV sales are on a structural
uptrend in China,” said Cheam Tze Shen, a CIMB analyst in  Hong
Kong .  “The penetration rate is low.”  Total sales of vehicles, including buses and trucks, gained
10 percent to 1.65 million units last month, the association
said. In the first eight months of the year, 13.9 million
vehicles were delivered, putting sales on track to reach the 20
million units estimated by the association.  Sales of SUVs jumped 46 percent to 240,100 units last
month, while deliveries of multipurpose vehicles surged 162
percent to 105,600 units. Sedan deliveries gained 4 percent to
899,100 vehicles.  Focus Popularity  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Focus was the best-selling sedan last
month, with  Great Wall Motor Co. (2333) ’s Haval line remaining the
nation’s top-selling SUV.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest foreign automaker in China,
reported sales growth accelerated in the country last month,
helped by demand for its Wuling and Buick vehicles. Total sales
in August climbed 11.2 percent, after expanding 11.1 percent the
preceding month, the Detroit-based company said last week.  Japanese automakers continued to lag behind other foreign
automakers. Next week marks one year since demonstrations
erupted across China against  Japan ’s purchase of a group of
disputed islands.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s sales in the country fell 4.2 percent,
while  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  declined 2.5 percent.  Sales growth may be capped as more cities in China consider
ownership restrictions to reduce air pollution and congestion.  Beijing will reduce the number of car license plates it
issues starting next year to help ease pollution and traffic
congestion, the official Xinhua News Agency reported Sept. 4.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  