-- Citigroup $2.42 Billion Issue Erases Bailout: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-09-10T15:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/citigroup-2-42-billion-issue-erases-bailout-corporate-finance.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  is removing the last
traces of its government bailout by persuading investors to buy
almost three times the subordinated debt it issued seven months
ago as it restores profitability after the financial crisis.  Citigroup, which took more rescue assistance than any other
U.S. lender after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., gave the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. $2.42 billion of
subordinated notes in exchange for preferred securities
yesterday after a similar $894 million deal in February. The
FDIC resold the new bonds today, eliminating a $7 billion
stake the government acquired in exchange for guaranteeing $301
billion of Citigroup holdings including mortgage- and other
asset-backed debt against losses.  “It closes a multistage saga that was a sad tale of
mismanagement stretching back to before the crisis,” said David Knutson, a credit analyst in  Chicago  at Legal & General
Investment Management America Inc., which oversees $32 billion.
“Today the franchise is much more stable and the bank is back
on steady ground.”  The lender  that lost  $29.3 billion in 2008 and 2009
combined has restored profitability and repaid other bailout
funds by selling off assets and boosting lending in  emerging
markets . New York-based Citigroup also is convincing regulators
that it can weather a future economic crisis, passing a set of
Federal Reserve stress tests earlier this year that measure
banks’ safety.  Sale Today  A $1 billion portion of notes sold by the FDIC and due in 30
years yielded 6.675 percent, and $1.42 billion of 12-year
securities paid 5.5 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Citigroup won’t receive proceeds from the resale to
the public, similar to a transaction in February that provided
the  U.S. Treasury  with $894 million.  “When the transaction concludes, no U.S. government entity
will continue to hold any securities in Citi issued as a result
of the financial crisis,” Mark Costiglio, a spokesman at the
bank, said by e-mail yesterday. “We remain very appreciative of
the support provided by the U.S. Treasury, FDIC and American
taxpayer during the financial crisis and are pleased that their
investment realized a return of more than $13 billion.”  David Barr , a spokesman at the FDIC, declined to comment on
the transaction.  Improving Finances  The 6.675 percent bonds increased to 102.77 cents on the
dollar to yield 6.47 percent at 10:56 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The 5.5 percent
securities increased to 100.22 cents to yield 5.48 percent.  Finances have improved with unwanted assets in the bank’s
Citi Holdings division tumbling 31 percent to $131 billion for
the year through June. The unit once held more than $600 billion
of assets tagged for sale and wind-down, including a student-lending business, distressed U.S. mortgages, and a stake in the
Smith Barney brokerage business.  Its  tier-1 capital ratio , a measure of a bank’s cushion
against losses, has increased to 13.24 percent on June 30 from a
decade-low of 7.12 percent at the end of 2007, Bloomberg data
show. The gauge exceeds the measure at each  U.S. bank  with
market values bigger than $100 billion, which include Bank of
America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Moody’s Review  “Citi, like most large U.S.-based banks, have greatly
increased their capital base and improved their risk exposure,”
said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at GMP
Securities LLC in New York.  While Moody’s Investors Service said last month that it may
cut the credit grades of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan,
Morgan Stanley and  Wells Fargo & Co ., it put Citigroup on review
with the direction of any change uncertain, according to an Aug.
22 statement.  Citigroup’s subordinated debt  is ranked  Baa3, one level
above speculative grade.  “The risk of downgrade for Citigroup seems to be
materially less than it was,” Don Jones, an analyst at Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc., said in a telephone interview. Eliminating
the government’s stake with the bond sale is “without a doubt a
positive step for becoming more capable of improving returns to
shareholders,” he said.  2 Bailouts  The bank’s market capitalization has surged by about $150
billion since March 2009, when its value tumbled to $5.59
billion, or a split-adjusted $10.20 per share. Yields on its
6.125 percent senior unsecured bonds due May 2018 surged above 9
percent in October 2008 before declining over the next five
years to 2.91 percent yesterday.  Regulators sought to prevent Citigroup’s collapse during
the financial crisis as the bank’s losses from soured mortgage
investments ballooned. An  initial  $25 billion bailout in October
2008 failed to prevent a further plunge in the stock as
customers withdrew deposits and counterparties demanded
collateral.  The Treasury and FDIC arranged a second bailout in
November, receiving a combined $7 billion in preferred stock in
return for guaranteeing some of the bank’s riskiest assets.  Regulators also provided a further $20 billion in cash to
rescue Citigroup, once the biggest lender in the world.  ‘Gut Instinct’  “While there was consensus that Citigroup was too
systemically significant to be allowed to fail, that consensus
appeared to be based as much on gut instinct and fear of the
unknown as on objective criteria,” according to a January 2011
report from the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset
Relief Program. “The conclusion of the various government
actors that Citigroup had to be saved was strikingly ad hoc.”  The bank has recovered as former Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit  pursued profit in emerging markets including
Mexico and  India  with U.S. and European growth slumping in the
wake of the crisis. Profit from the bank’s businesses in  Asia 
climbed 5 percent to $2.18 billion for the six months through
June, compared with the similar period last year, and net income
rose 3 percent to $1.77 billion in  Latin America .  As the U.S. economy heals with housing and consumer
spending aiding a recovery, the asset quality of the country’s
banks should improve further, according to Dorian Garay, a New
York-based money manager at ING Investment Management. Relative
yields on bank debt are also approaching spreads on industrial
bonds, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Bank bonds paid 157 basis points more than Treasuries last
yesterday. That’s 3 basis points more than industrial borrowers,
a gap that has declined from 46 a year ago.  “U.S. banks are on a much better ground today than a
couple of years ago after the financial crisis,” Garay said.
“We expect concerns about the financial system to continue to
ease going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  