-- McKinsey Clients Shrugged at Scandals, Ignored Greed
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2013-09-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/mckinsey-clients-shrugged-at-scandals-ignored-greed.html
McKinsey & Co., the global fix-it
firm for companies and governments, labored in Tanzania in the
late 1960s and charged fees so high that they merited a line
item in the country’s budget, according to “ The Firm: The Story
of McKinsey and Its Secret Influence on American Business .”  Hard-core capitalists might consider McKinsey’s big bills
and say hooray for the free market. Demand a price the market
will bear and all that.  Astonishingly, author Duff McDonald considers this and
other dazzling examples of McKinsey’s greed and concludes that
“in large part” the firm’s people aren’t motivated by money.  They aren’t?  McDonald, a contributing editor at Fortune and the  New York 
Observer, has put together an instructive history of McKinsey,
but on key points he leaves us scratching our heads.  He says it’s an “open question” whether McKinsey has
transformed the way businesses are managed, but a page later
allows that McKinsey “has certainly made the world a more
efficient, rational and objective place.”  Nearly 200 pages into the book he wonders about McKinsey’s
boast of having smart guys who can fix any client problem even
as the firm suffers high-visibility failures, such as its ill-fated advice on the restructuring of  General Motors Co. (GM)  in the
1980s.  “Is it a con?” he asks. The maddening answer: “Maybe.”  Insider Trading  Sometimes,  McDonald  imparts details of customers’ apparent
satisfaction. When McKinsey director  Anil Kumar  was arrested for
 insider trading  in October 2009, it was the start of a publicity
nightmare that culminated in the sentencing of former leader
 Rajat Gupta  for insider trading in 2012. Curiously, that didn’t
affect business, McDonald writes.  The takeaway, as they say in consulting-land, is that
customers shrugged at the scandal because they got something
valuable from McKinsey. But what? The author includes examples
of the plusses but doesn’t commit himself on whether clients
gain or lose on balance.  Despite these failings, we do learn about the culture and
characters that make McKinsey what it is.  The firm was founded in  Chicago  in 1926 by a former
accounting professor and is now a 102-office global behemoth.  Long Socks  Marvin Bower, who took over in 1950, professionalized
McKinsey but imposed rules that amounted to “cooking the
individuality of his consultants out of them as soon as
possible,” McDonald says. The inviolable dress code even
included a mandate that men wear long socks because Bower hated
the sight of “raw flesh.”  McDonald has a good eye for examples of McKinsey’s massive
institutional ego and seemingly limitless ability to weave a
line of baloney to justify its failures.  A 1976 memo from one of the firm’s directors noted that
while he was aware “that we are simply superior people,” he
would “hate to see us say so” to outsiders. Another beauty: A
partner once told Fortune magazine that “It’s almost never that
we fail because we come up with the wrong answer.” Rather, a
McKinsey plan goes awry because errant clients sometimes fail to
obey instructions.  Notwithstanding the mulish confidence of McKinsey insiders,
the firm has been on the scene advising companies that undergo
spectacular meltdowns.  Kissing Enron  McKinsey had a 17-year relationship with Enron Corp.,
writes McDonald, and a McKinsey partner’s 2001 book “Creative
Destruction” was “nothing short of a big wet kiss” to Enron.  Enron, of course, went bankrupt in 2001 after a massive
accounting fraud. While McKinsey was not accused of malfeasance,
it’s hard to fathom that a competent consulting team could spend
that much time hanging around a client without noticing that
something was amiss.  McDonald speculates that many tales of McKinsey advice gone
wrong will never get told. While a client might be miffed when
their advice is a bust, he says customers are reluctant to sue
because it would mean losing access to McKinsey.  Which leads us back to the question, never really answered,
as to whether McKinsey is on balance a treasured adviser or a
waste of money. Fear of losing access surely infers there is
something worth losing. McDonald tells many pieces of the firm’s
story. But he can’t seem to decide what the bottom line is.  “The Firm” is published by  Simon & Schuster  (387 pages,
$30). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Susan Antilla  is a columnist for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on Broadway and
 Amanda Gordon ’s  Scene Last Night .  To contact the writer on the story:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 