-- Commodities Tumble Most Since June Amid Easing Syrian Concerns
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-10T15:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/commodities-tumble-most-since-june-amid-easing-syrian-concerns.html
Commodities fell the most since
June on mounting prospects for a diplomatic solution to  Syria ’s
chemical attacks, avoiding military action and easing concern
that oil shipments from the Middle East will be disrupted.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
dropped 1.7 percent to 646.24 at 11:37 a.m. in New York, heading
for the biggest slide since June 20. Earlier, the index touched
644.41, the lowest since Aug. 23. Silver led the decline,
falling as much as 3.7 percent, gold headed for the biggest drop
in two months, and crude oil slid the most since June.  Commodities reached a six-month high on Aug. 28 as the U.S.
considered a military strike against Syria for its alleged use
of chemical weapons against civilians. Raw materials declined
amid reports that Bashar al-Assad’s government agreed to a
Russian plan to surrender its chemical weapons.  “It appears that imminent conflict has been pulled back
with the plan between Russia and Assad,” Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of assets at B&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham,  Alabama , said in a telephone
interview. “It looks like the war premium is coming out of gold
and oil, and that’s knocking the index lower.”  France said it will submit a proposal to the United Nations
to confiscate Syria’s chemical weapons. Interfax reported that
Assad’s government accepted the plan. President  Barack Obama ,
who is scheduled to speak about his intentions on Syria at 9
p.m. in  Washington , said yesterday that Russia’s motion is a
“potentially positive development.”  Prices Drop  West Texas Intermediate crude oil for October delivery
dropped 2.2 percent to $107.11 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, after reaching $106.39, the lowest for the
most-active contract since Sept. 3.  Gold futures for December delivery declined 1.6 percent to
$1,364.30 an ounce on the Comex in New York, heading for the
biggest drop since July 5. Silver futures for December delivery
slumped 3 percent to $22.995 an ounce on the Comex.  “The seeming outbreak of peace for the moment is obviously
providing some relief to crude oil and leading to some
liquidation in gold,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at
Citigroup Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “When
there’s less saber rattling in the Middle East, the crude-oil
market doesn’t need to hold as much premium. Investors are less
inclined to own gold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in New York at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  