-- Confidence Measures Show It’s the Politics, Stupid
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-09-10T15:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/confidence-measures-show-it-s-the-politics-stupid-economy.html
Americans’ views of the U.S.
economy are increasingly colored by politics, making consumer
sentiment a less reliable gauge of the outlook for the spending
that drives growth.  Self-identified Democrats and Republicans surveyed for the
Bloomberg Comfort Index are showing the least agreement on the
trajectory of the economy since records began in 1990. Since
 Barack Obama  took office in 2009, the likelihood that the two
groups’ views will move in the same direction is less than half
what it was under George W. Bush, and less than a third of that
when Democrat Bill Clinton was in the White House.  Growing political polarization helps explain the trend,
according to analysts such as Steve Jarding at Harvard
University. As partisan gaps widen on issues from the overhaul
of health-care policy to restructuring tax brackets, it has
become harder for consumers to separate their political views
from their assessment of the economy. What’s more,
 auto sales  last month were the strongest since November 2007
even as  consumer confidence  declined in two surveys, showing
that less optimism doesn’t always translate into weaker
spending.  “America for 30 years has been just drowned in information
on polarizing single issues,” said Jarding, a professor at
Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , and a former Democratic campaign manager. “It’s
more difficult just to gauge the sense of the public” on
economic conditions, he said.  As a result, Wall Street analysts say they rely less on
such consumer surveys, including those from the Conference Board
and Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan as well as the
Bloomberg index, to project changes in household purchases that
make up about 70 percent of growth.  Unrelated to Spending  “We don’t base too much of our forecast on consumer
sentiment, no matter which measure, because they’re responding
to things in the news in some sense that are unrelated to
consumer spending,” said Daniel Silver, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  Analysts use the concept of correlation to measure the
strength of the relationship between two groups, with zero
indicating no discernible trend and 1 showing they are moving in
tandem. The correlation between the confidence of Democrats and
that of Republicans is 0.25 since Obama started his first term.
During Bush’s two terms it was 0.55 and under Clinton it was
0.95, showing consumers of different political persuasions had
just about the same views on the direction of the economy in
1993 to 2001.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  gauge  of
sentiment plunged 9.8 points in December amid negotiations in
Washington over tax increases and federal spending cuts.
Consumer spending increased 0.1 percent that month, “not a huge
drop-off” and illustrating politics may obscure Americans’
actual purchasing habits, Silver said. The Conference Board’s
measure dropped to a four-month low at the end of last year.  Auto Sales  The Michigan index dropped to a four-month low in August,
and the Bloomberg comfort gauge has declined four straight weeks
since the beginning of last month. Meanwhile, sales of cars and
light trucks accelerated to a 16 million annualized pace in
August, according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  “Consumers don’t always do what they say, and there are
many times when those two things move in opposite directions,”
said Jonathan Basile, an economist at Credit Suisse in New York.
“Sometimes people will spend to make themselves feel better
when things are bad.”  If respondents were rating the economy as they do their
pocketbooks, the results would be different. Republicans, who
tend to be more affluent, historically have assigned a higher
grade to the economy, said Gary Langer, president of the New
York-based Langer Research Associates, which compiles the
Bloomberg index.  Personal Finances  Until the week ended Sept. 1, self-identified Democratic
voters had been more confident overall than Republicans for an
unprecedented 75 straight weeks. Democrats’ views of their
 personal finances  haven’t followed suit, exceeding Republicans’
in only seven weeks during the same period, according to the
Bloomberg Comfort data.  This has occurred even as Republicans lost ground to
Democrats in the higher-income categories since 2008, Gallup
data shows.  Among those taking home more than $75,000 a year,
Republicans outnumber Democrats by 2.1 percentage points, down
from 4.4 points in 2008, according to Gallup.  At the same time, the Democratic advantage among lower-income voters has narrowed. The difference between the two major
parties among those making less than $20,000 a year is 18
percentage points, down from 25 points in 2008.  Even as the value of the headline confidence numbers
diminishes, some components of the surveys, such as a gauge of
personal finances, can provide stronger hints of economic
growth, Basile said.  Making Forecasts  Maury Harris, the New York-based chief economist for UBS
Securities LLC, said he assesses expectations components in the
Michigan and  Conference Board (CONCCONF)  confidence gauges to make consumer
spending forecasts. Harris is the top forecaster of the
Conference Board’s headline index for the past two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Conference Board’s gauge of present conditions measures
consumers’ views of current business and employment health, as
well as their outlook for the next six months. The Michigan
survey also includes measures of current conditions, used to
assess how Americans perceive their financial situation, and
expectations.  “Confidence matters, but income’s very important” in
forecasting consumer spending, Harris said. “There’s hardly
anything in what I do that’s a definitive, dominant variable. We
know that conceptually confidence has to be important.”  Better Predictor  The  present situation  component of the Conference Board’s
survey is a better predictor for employment data than its
overall figure, according to New York Federal Reserve research
that analyzes data dating back to 1977. That survey component
shows a 0.89 correlation with the unemployment rate two months
into the future.  The proliferation of political surveys, as well as
questions within non-political surveys that ask respondents’
affiliations, tend to “muddy the water” on data intended to
show economic perceptions, said Ken Goldstein of the Conference
Board, which does not ask respondents their political
identifications for its monthly confidence survey.  Rebecca McBee, a research area specialist for the Michigan
index, said in an e-mail that the survey doesn’t ask respondents
for their political affiliation. McBee referred questions on
partisan identification in confidence surveys to Richard Curtin,
the survey director. Calls and e-mails to Curtin weren’t
returned.  ‘Hyper-Partisan’  The increasingly “hyper-partisan” political landscape has
caused consumers to more frequently take cues from voices on
television who express strong feelings on issues that are then
absorbed by viewers who repeat the ideas, a trend that’s
unlikely to recede anytime soon, said Dan Schnur, director of
the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of
Southern California in Los Angeles.  “As our political leaders retreat further and further away
from midfield into their respective ideological end zones, at a
certain point, voters are going to begin to push back, but it’s
hard to see that pushback happening in the immediate future,”
and probably not before the 2016 presidential election, said
Schnur, a former Republican consultant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  