-- House Republicans Push for Senate Health Vote on Budget
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-09-11T15:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/congressional-leaders-said-to-meet-on-budget-debt-ceiling-1-.html
House Republican leaders are
lobbying their members to back a government financing strategy
that would force the Senate to take a vote on defunding
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  House Speaker  John Boehner  and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor 
must persuade Republicans to vote for their plan to pair a
short-term stopgap spending measure with a resolution to strip
money for the health-care law.  House Democrats  plan to oppose
the maneuver.  If the plan fails, the risk of a federal government
shutdown after the Sept. 30 end of the fiscal year increases and
Republicans’ leverage in talks to raise the nation’s debt
ceiling weakens.  “You know how we stumbled into World War I?”
Representative Gerald Connolly, a Virginia Democrat, said in an
interview. “I don’t think there is any design to have a
government shutdown, but I think right now Cantor and company
risk stumbling into a government shutdown.”  Leaders must decide today whether to bring the spending
measure to a vote tomorrow. A delay in that decision would push
the vote to next week.  Representative Raul Labrador, an Idaho Republican, said in
an interview today that leaders are making the case for their
strategy to rank-and-file members. He said he doesn’t support
the plan because he’s “not sure” what the “end game” is.  Staying Unified  Republicans must stay unified “because we have a long way
to go still,” Representative James Lankford, an Oklahoma
Republican, said in an interview. “We have a lot of other
issues. There’s the debt ceiling. If we start off divided, it
doesn’t help us as we go from there.”  Representative  Paul Ryan , chairman of the House Budget
Committee, said he supports the leaders’ plan.  “The best fight for Obamacare is on the debt limit,”
Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, told reporters yesterday.  Boehner and Cantor, a Virginia Republican, said they will
try to force the Democratic-led Senate to vote on defunding
Obama’s health-care law before the House will agree to enact a
measure funding the government until mid-December.  “Our goal here is not to shut down the government,”
Boehner of  Ohio  told reporters in Washington yesterday. “Our
goal is to cut spending and to stop Obamacare.”  Affordable Care  The House leaders’ plan hasn’t received the backing of
rank-and-file House Republicans, many of whom want a binding
measure to eliminate money for the Affordable Care Act. The
House plan would allow a short-term spending bill to be enacted
even if the Senate voted not to strip health-care funds.  Some  House Republicans  complained that the legislative
vehicle was merely symbolic because rejection of the provision
to defund the health-care law wouldn’t derail passage of the
stopgap spending bill.  “All it does is force the Senate to do an up or down vote.
But it’s not going to change anything,” Louisiana
Representative  John Fleming , a Republican, said in opposing the
plan. “It’s all just a show to get us voting one way or another
but not really attempting in a serious way to achieve the goal”
of blocking the health law, he said.  The House leaders’ efforts will be complicated by
widespread opposition from Democrats. House Democratic Whip
Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , who previously endorsed the concept of
a stopgap spending bill at the current level, said yesterday he
is urging colleagues to oppose the bill. House Democrats have
called for Congress to replace across-the-board budget cuts that
have significantly reduced  government spending .  ‘Futile’ Vote  Second-ranking Senate Democrat  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois 
dismissed the Republicans’ strategy yesterday.  “This will be the 41st, I believe, futile House vote on
Obamacare,” Durbin said in an interview at the Capitol. “The
speaker obviously thinks that it serves his purposes within his
caucus, but it’s clearly a non-starter in the Senate.”  The House has voted 40 times to repeal, delay or defund all
or part of the health-care law. The Senate has refused to take
up almost all of those measures. The 2010 health-care law,
upheld last year by the U.S. Supreme Court, is designed to
expand coverage to at least 30 million people.  Congressional leaders of both parties plan to meet tomorrow
to discuss government finances and the U.S. debt ceiling. The
U.S. is projected to reach its debt limit as early as mid-October.  Debt Ceiling  The U.S. will lack enough money to pay its bills sometime
between Oct. 18 and Nov. 5, according to a Bipartisan Policy
Center analysis released yesterday. At the end of August, the
U.S. had another $108 billion in so-called extraordinary
measures, such as not reinvesting certain employee retirement
payments, available to cover spending in excess of revenue.  The volatility of  tax revenue  makes it difficult to predict
the exact date the government won’t be able to pay its bills,
the center’s report said.  White House officials and House Republicans have said they
are determined not to allow a default on  U.S. government debt .  Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said in an Aug. 26  letter  to
Boehner that the government would exhaust borrowing authority in
mid-October. At that point the government would have about $50
billion in remaining cash that would be “insufficient to cover
net expenditures for an extended period of time,” Lew wrote.  ‘We’ll See’  Representative Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican and
chairman of the Appropriations Committee, said he supports the
leaders’ strategy because it satisfies members’ need for up-or-down votes on the spending and health-care measures.  Rogers late yesterday introduced the stopgap measure at a
yearly funding level of $986.3 billion, slightly lower than the
current $988 billion.  Asked whether it would have enough support to pass, Rogers
said, “we’ll see.”  Eighty House Republicans had urged their leaders to support
defunding the health-care law as part of the stopgap spending
measure. That number is short of a “majority of the majority”
that is usually the benchmark for consensus among the chamber’s
233 Republicans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  