-- Continental Teams Up With IBM to Cooperate on Automated Driving
-- B y   A n g e l a   M a i e r
-- 2013-09-10T10:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/continental-teams-up-with-ibm-to-cooperate-on-automated-driving.html
Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker, is teaming up with  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  to develop technology that puts the
Internet in the driver’s seat.  Continental, based in Hanover, Germany, and Armonk, New
York-based IBM, agreed to create a multimedia platform that
controls functions such as mobility and navigation, the
companies said at the International Auto Show in Frankfurt
today.  The partnership comes five weeks after Continental
announced a cooperation with  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest
maker of networking equipment, to develop technology to connect
vehicles to the Internet. Web connectivity has become critical
for carmakers as customers demand vehicles with more technology.  “IBM’s experience in cloud-enabled platforms and embedded
systems development capabilities, combined with our systems
expertise in automotive electronics, create the foundation for a
new generation of intelligent networked vehicles,” Continental
Chief Executive Officer Elmar Degenhart said at a press
conference.  The technology will be designed to help cars communicate
with each other, steer their way better through traffic and
“literally look around the corner,” the companies said.  Stuttgart, Germany-based  Daimler AG (DAI)  provides live traffic
information and a Wi-Fi hotspot in its new-generation Mercedes-Benz S-Class sedan. Backed by an array of 12 ultrasonic
detectors, five cameras and six radar sensors, the 79,800-euro
($104,630) S-Class can match the speed of the car in front of
it, even coming to a complete stop and steering to stay in the
lane.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has been testing self-driving cars for several
years, putting its own technology into existing car models.  “The boom is just starting,” Ralf Lenninger, a manager of
Continental’s interior divison, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Maier in Munich at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  