-- Credit Swaps in U.S Fall; Verizon Risk Rises Before Record Deal
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-10T16:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-verizon-risk-rises-before-record-deal.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
reached the lowest level in more than three weeks as tensions
eased over the conflict in  Syria . The cost to protect the debt
of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  rose.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.9
basis point to a mid-price of 78.1 basis points as of 12:01 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The index earlier declined to 76.6 basis points, the lowest
intraday level since Aug. 15, as Russia urged Syria to turn over
its arsenal of chemical weapons, a plan that may offer a
diplomatic resolution and avoid a U.S. military strike.  “Treasuries are softening and corporate bonds are
softening a lot with them because people don’t need safety with
the Syrian conflict seeing some sort of solution,” William Larkin, a fixed-income portfolio manager at Cabot Money
Management in Salem,  Massachusetts , said in a telephone
interview.  Credit swaps, which typically decrease as investor
confidence improves and climb as it deteriorates, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Verizon Offering  Credit risk linked to Verizon debt rose as the company
prepared to sell as much as $50 billion in bonds, including an
initial offering that may exceed Apple Inc.’s record $17 billion
sale in April.  Five-year credit swaps tied to the debt of Verizon rose 3.5
basis points to 101 basis points as of 11:54 a.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s the highest level on a
closing basis since July 2010.  The New York-based company may sell eight portions of
dollar-denominated bonds to help purchase  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s
stake in Verizon Wireless in a $130 billion transaction,
according to a person with knowledge of the offering, who asked
not to be identified because they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 8.3 basis points to 373.8, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 0.2 basis point to 132.7
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt rose 0.1 basis point to 600.3  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  