-- TD to Double Advisers in Push for Wealthy U.S. Clients
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-09-10T13:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/td-to-double-advisers-in-push-for-wealthy-u-s-clients.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Canada ’s
second-largest lender by assets, is ramping up its U.S. asset-management business while doubling the number of advisers for
wealthy American clients in an bid to accelerate profit.  Toronto-Dominion seeks to build on its March takeover of
Epoch Investment Partners Inc., a New York-based money manager,
while increasing  wealth-management  offerings for its bank
customers from Maine to Florida, said Leo Salom, executive vice
president of wealth management at the Toronto-based firm.
Efforts include doubling the number of private-wealth advisers
to 300 in the next two and a half years, he said.  “We’re really excited about the U.S. expansion,” Salom
said in a Sept. 6 interview at his Toronto office. “Over the
next three or four years that part of the business will be a
significant contributor to our growth.”  Canadian banks are bracing for a lending slowdown as over-indebted consumers slow their borrowing and demand for mortgages
slips amid the prospect of rising interest rates. Lenders are
left looking for growth in other areas, such as providing
customers investment advice and financial planning as well as
managing their money -- all for a fee.  “Firms are looking at other fee-based opportunities and
the wealth business provides that added revenue source,” said
Salom, who took over on July 1. “You’ve got an aging
demographic that’s increasingly more affluent, that’s struggling
with historically low interest rates. The need for retirement
advice, long-term planning advice has never been greater.”  ‘Aging Demographics’  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  Chief Executive Officer  Gordon Nixon 
said at a Sept. 4 investor conference that he’s looking for
international asset-management takeovers. Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce CEO Gerald McCaughey set a goal for wealth
management to represent 15 percent of annual profit, up from 11
percent. The bank plans to reach that goal through acquisitions
that complement the Toronto-based company’s 2011 purchase of a
41 percent stake in American Century Investments and an April
agreement to buy Atlantic Trust Private Wealth Management.  “The banks all recognize it’s a very attractive business,
because there’s very little capital involved,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research at MacDougall MacDougall &
MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages about C$4 billion ($3.9
billion) including bank shares. “They’ve all realized that
 consumer lending  will probably slow down and it could be a more
secular thing than a cyclical thing. It comes down to aging
demographics.”  Richardson GMP  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP)  and James Richardson & Sons Ltd. yesterday
agreed to buy the Canadian private-wealth business of
Australia’s Macquarie Group Ltd. for C$132 million to expand its
wealth-management partnership. Richardson GMP Ltd. will have
C$28 billion of assets under administration when the deal is
completed, which is expected to be in the fourth quarter.  U.S. banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
and  Wells Fargo & Co . have also put greater emphasis on their
asset and wealth-management businesses as regulators step up
 capital requirements . Under the 2010 Dodd-Frank law, banks have
to hold more capital against risky activities, such as trading,
beginning next year.  Toronto-Dominion’s wealth-management division includes its
TD Direct Investing online brokerage, an advice business that
comprises the TD Waterhouse full-service brokerage and private
banking, and an asset-management business, with about C$78
billion in mutual fund assets. The firm also has a 42 percent
stake in U.S. discount brokerage  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)   Record Profit  Toronto-Dominion posted record profit from wealth
management in the quarter ended July 31, with earnings from its
wealth business, including TD Ameritrade, climbing 19 percent to
C$250 million from a year-earlier. By comparison, Canadian
personal and commercial banking rose 12 percent to C$997
million.  “I would expect wealth to be able to grow at a slightly
faster pace than some of the more traditional retail channels,”
Salom said. “I would expect that number to inch up.”  Toronto-Dominion is the third-best performer among Canada’s
eight biggest banks this year, with shares  rising  9.1 percent
since Dec. 31 to outpace the 8 percent return of the eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index.  Toronto-Dominion’s stock climbed to a record C$91.65 on Sept. 5.
Canadian lenders lag behind the 24 percent return of the  KBW
Index (BKX)  of 24 major U.S. banks.  Brand Awareness  Salom, 47, took over TD’s wealth-management business from
Mike Pedersen, who became group head of U.S. banking on July 1
as part of a management shuffle. Salom reports to  Tim Hockey ,
who also oversees Canadian banking.  Salom joined Toronto-Dominion in 2011 after working as CEO
of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s Western European retail and commercial banking
group in London, and earlier spent almost 19 years at Citibank,
according to his company biography. He holds a bachelor’s degree
in business administration from the  University of Miami  and an
MBA from  Harvard Business School .  Canada will provide a shorter-term boost to profits as TD
seeks to tap existing banking customers with financial advice
and products to boost market share, providing a bridge to a
longer-term U.S. growth strategy.  “For wealth management in Canada, TD is very well known,”
Nakamoto said. “The awareness of brand name in the U.S.
definitely has risen a fair bit with the number of branches
there. I would still say to the average U.S. consumer they still
have some ways to go.”  TD Flagship  In Canada, TD Direct Investing is the division’s flagship,
accounting for almost 40 percent of the unit’s earnings, Salom
said. The firm plans to accelerate its advice business in the
country, which includes 1,700 advisers in Canada and represents
about a third of earnings, he said.  “We still have a tremendous amount of growth opportunity
in Canada,” Salom said. “The short-term profitability
opportunity in Canada is very compelling.”  In the U.S., the C$674 million Epoch acquisition, which
added about $25 billion in assets, gives the division more
capabilities in equities as markets are beginning to shift from
bonds to stocks amid rising  interest rates , Salom said.  “Epoch puts us in a very competitive position to take
advantage of the shift we’re seeing in the marketplace,” Salom
said. “We’re looking to continue to expand and evolve our
asset-management business, and the Epoch acquisition is a good
example of adding significant capabilities on that front.”  Internal Growth  Toronto-Dominion has sought to expand its wealth-management
division mainly through internal growth, in contrast to Royal
Bank and Canadian Imperial, which have increased through
takeovers of asset managers and private-wealth businesses.  The firm would “resist the tendencies to simply go for the
quick acquisition that gives you temporary scale, but doesn’t
necessarily give you permanent scale,” Salom said. Toronto-Dominion can experience double-digit increases in the division’s
assets and revenue “without the need to go down that path and
inject some degree of uncertainty to our growth model.”  Instead, Toronto-Dominion seeks to gain greater wealth-management revenue in both the U.S. and Canada by selling more
products and services to existing banking customers, he said.  “If we mine effectively the 11 million retail clients here
in Canada, the eight million clients in the U.S., then I think
we’ve got significant opportunities,” Salom said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  