-- Daimler Struggles to Meet Demand on Premium-Market Record
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-09-10T15:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/daimler-struggles-to-meet-demand-on-luxury-car-sales-jump.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury vehicles , said it’s having trouble
filling orders as all-time-high August sales put premium-car
manufacturers on course for record full-year deliveries.  “We have a luxury problem,” Chief Executive Officer
 Dieter Zetsche  said today at an International Motor Show press
briefing in  Frankfurt . “We have a shortage of capacity and
cannot fully satisfy global demand.”  New models at Daimler’s main Mercedes-Benz brand and larger
competitors  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Audi AG (NSU)  are
propelling delivery gains at the German luxury-vehicle
producers, in contrast to declines at European mass-market
carmakers amid a recession. Industry sales in the region, which
are at a two-decade low, have “bottomed out, and there can be
some improvement for the rest of the year,” Zetsche said today.  Mercedes said in August that it hired 4,500 vacation-period
workers to keep up production volume during the summer holiday
season, with extra hours to build more A-Class and B-Class
compacts in Rastatt, Germany, and additional sport-utility
vehicles in Tuscaloosa,  Alabama .  Labor Talks  The Rastatt plant has a program in place for 21 additional
shifts January through November this year,  Andreas Renschler ,
head of manufacturing at Mercedes, said today at a Frankfurt
press conference. The company is in talks with the works council
on more flexibility in schedules to add or subtract hours based
on car-sales changes, he said.  Daimler  rose  2.3 percent to 55.98 euros as of 4:41 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading, heading for the highest closing price since
Feb. 14, 2011. BMW gained 1.6 percent to 79.38 euros, the
highest since at least 1992. Volkswagen AG,  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker and Audi’s owner,  jumped  4.3 percent to 178.30 euros,
the biggest gain in almost a year, based on closing prices.  Zetsche has a strategy for Mercedes to roll out 13 models
with no predecessor in eight years in a bid to overtake top-ranked luxury-car manufacturer BMW in sales by the end of the
decade. That compares with moves by Munich-based BMW to maintain
industry dominance by bringing out 25 models in the two years
through 2014, with 10 having no predecessor.  Mercedes Sales  Global deliveries at Mercedes last month jumped 19 percent
from a year earlier to 108,417 cars and SUVs, a record for an
August, Stuttgart-based Daimler said on Sept. 5. Growth was
boosted by an 85 percent surge in demand for the compact models
and a 28 percent gain for the E-Class sedan following a revamp
of the model starting in April.  BMW also  said  today that group sales were the highest ever
for an August, with a 15 percent jump to 139,648 vehicles.
Growth was boosted by a 39 percent surge in sales of the 3-Series car, which BMW started overhauling in early 2012. A Gran
Turismo version was added earlier this year.  Eight-month sales at both BMW’s main brand and at Audi, a
division of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , exceeded 1 million cars and SUVs for
the first time. August deliveries by Audi increased 9.8 percent
to 118,650, the Ingolstadt-based company said yesterday. New
models this year include a sedan version of the A3 hatchback
that the carmaker predicted will be the vehicle’s best-selling
variant, as well as the high-performance RS 5 sports coupe.  Volume Revival  Volume producers including  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  have also said at
Frankfurt show press conferences that demand for autos in the
region has stabilized and may be reviving.  “There are no major signs of uptick, but it does feel like
we’re running along the bottom” of the European car-market
contraction, Stephen Odell, head of Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford’s business in the region, said yesterday. Peugeot CEO
Philippe Varin forecast today that there will be “slightly
positive growth” in European auto-industry sales next year.  “A moderate recovery of 2 percent to 3 percent next year
would be logical, as we’ve now attained a basic level of car
replacement and the economy of some southern countries shows
signs of improvement” in Europe, Juergen Pieper, an analyst at
Bankhaus Metzler, said today by phone.  “I definitely see a lightening in mood among automotive
executives compared with the Geneva car show” in March, said
 Frank Schwope , a Hanover, Germany-based analyst at NordLB.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Frankfurt via 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  