-- Danaher $8 Billion Seen Fueling Bids for Pall, Spectris
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-09-10T14:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/danaher-8-billion-seen-fueling-bids-for-pall-spectris.html
Danaher Corp. (DHR) , a maker of
everything from dental equipment to water filters, may spend
some of its more than $8 billion in takeover firepower on Pall
Corp. or  Spectris Plc (SXS)  to help boost sales amid the slowest
growth in four years.  Chief Executive Officer Larry Culp said in July that the
$47 billion company is looking for deals that can increase
returns for shareholders. Spectris, a $4.3 billion maker of
testing gear, could lure Danaher with its high  margins  and the
opportunity for cost cutting, said Credit Suisse Group AG. Pall,
an $8.1 billion supplier of water-filtration technology, could
be an attractive target, FBR & Co. and Longbow Research said.  Danaher hasn’t spent more than $1 billion on a  purchase 
since 2011, and now has a record amount of cash for takeovers.
Macquarie Group Ltd. said investors are eager for more
dealmaking, with the Washington-based company’s sales poised to
increase by less than 4 percent this year, down from growth of
more than 12 percent every year since 2009, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Larry has made it pretty clear that he has that
firepower,” Ajay Kejriwal, a New York-based analyst at FBR,
said in a phone interview. “Given their track record, investors
know that they will do something. It’s just a matter of time.”  A representative for Danaher said the company declined to
comment.  Acquisition Strategy  Danaher’s business is divided into  five units : dental; test
and measurement; environmental; life sciences and diagnostics;
and industrial technologies. The company, which pays a quarterly
dividend of just 2.5 cents a share, has historically rewarded
shareholders by making acquisitions that fuel growth.  The company’s market value has surged more than four-fold
in the last decade as it completed about 68 takeovers. While
Danaher has already announced five deals this year, it hasn’t
spent more than $1 billion on a transaction since the purchase
of Beckman Coulter Inc. for about $7 billion in 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This is a company that again and again has shown that via
M&A it can create a ton of value,”  Ross Muken , a New York-based
analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group LLC, said
in a phone interview. Danaher is “overdue” for a transaction.  Analysts estimate the company will boost  sales  3.8 percent
this year to $19 billion, the slowest growth since 2009.  Cash Advantage  Danaher had a record $2.3 billion in  cash  as of June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg that goes back to 1987.  “The great advantage that Danaher has is that balance
sheet, and so people would like them to put it to use,”
Jonathan Groberg, a New York-based analyst at Macquarie, said in
a phone interview. Without deals, “you’re left with a low-growth business.”  Danaher has the capability to do more than $8 billion in
deals through 2014, Culp said on the company’s second-quarter
earnings call in July.  “We’re looking for great fits where we can add value,
where we can generate a return for our shareholders,” the CEO
said. The company is having “high-quality conversations with
high-quality companies.”  Pall (PLL) , whose CEO Larry Kingsley is a former Danaher
executive, has attractive margins and would be a “good
strategic fit” within the conglomerate’s environmental-technologies division, said Kejriwal of FBR.  Revenue Stream  Danaher could also be attracted to Pall’s steady revenue
stream from installing and replacing filtration devices,
according to Mark Douglass, an Independence, Ohio-based analyst
at Longbow. Pall had sales of $2.6 billion in its latest fiscal
year.  A deal “would definitely make sense,” Douglass said in a
phone interview. Pall  employees  “would have already been
introduced to at least some of the practices of the Danaher
business system with an ex-Danaher manager at the helm.”  Pall’s valuation could be a deterrent to a deal, said
Douglass and David Rose, a Los Angeles-based analyst at Wedbush
Inc. The company’s market value has surged more than 70 percent
since Kingsley took over as CEO in October 2011.  Spectris would be a more digestible target for Danaher,
which would be drawn to its  high margins , steady revenue and the
potential for consolidation within the conglomerate’s own test
and measurement division, according to  Julian Mitchell , a New
York-based analyst at Credit Suisse. Spectris generated revenue
of $1.95 billion in 2012.  ‘Right Wheelhouse’  “You look at their market cap, it’s in the right
wheelhouse,” Mitchell said in a phone interview. “There’s
scope for someone with a very good operating system like the
Danaher business system to come in there and take out costs by
centralizing the supply chain, the sales forces.”  Doug Novarro, a spokesman for  Port Washington , New York-based Pall, didn’t return phone or e-mail messages requesting
comment, while Clea Rosenfeld, head of corporate affairs at
Egham, England-based Spectris, declined to comment on the
potential for a deal with Danaher.  Today, Pall shares climbed 2.1 percent to $73.69 at 10:40
a.m.  New York  time, headed for an all-time closing high.
Spectris rose 0.5 percent to 2,327 pence.  Danaher could seek acquisitions to bulk up its product-identification business, which makes printing and coding
equipment, according to Muken of ISI. The operations are part of
Danaher’s industrial technologies division.  “There’s still lots of companies available” for
takeovers, Muken said. “You’ve got this mix of attractive
market growth, no installed leader of size.”  Danaher also could pursue transactions in the life sciences
and diagnostics industry, which last year accounted for 36
percent of its revenue, according to Brandon Couillard, a New
York-based analyst at Jefferies Group LLC.  After Life  The company explored a purchase of  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) ,
according to people familiar with the matter who asked not to be
named because the process was private. Life agreed in April to
sell itself to Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. for about $16
billion, including debt.  Danaher “would like to do more in that area,” Couillard
said in a phone interview. “It has long viewed Thermo as a
competing bidder for every asset of interest in the space and
with them currently tied up with Life, it does give Danaher some
advantage in the negotiation process.”  Danaher is a disciplined buyer and with equity markets near
record highs, the surging valuations of many potential targets
have made dealmaking challenging, according to Nigel Frankson, a
Baltimore-based analyst at Brown Advisory Inc., which owns
Danaher stock among its holdings.  Buy, Fix  “The current environment is probably unfavorable for
them,” Frankson said in a phone interview. “As a shareholder
of Danaher, I appreciate them not buying something just for the
sake of buying something.”  At the same time, Danaher’s specialty is buying companies
and applying its management system to boost profitability, he
said.  “Danaher can buy a company and fix it and it will be more
valuable tomorrow than it is the day they bought it,” Frankson
said. “That’s what I want Danaher to do. The value accrued to
the shareholder is clear and obvious.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  