-- De Blasio Leads in Mayor Race as NYC Voters Head to Polls
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-09-10T17:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/de-blasio-leads-in-mayor-race-as-nyc-voters-head-to-polls.html
New Yorkers began choosing their
first new mayor in 12 years today, after a campaign that
ultimately pivoted on the gulf between rich and poor in the
largest U.S. city.  Bill de Blasio, elected four years ago to the citywide
watchdog office of public advocate, leads among seven Democratic
candidates and may garner enough votes to avoid an Oct. 1 runoff
with his closest competitor. Polls close at 9 p.m.  Democrats outnumber Republicans in the city more than 6-to-1. City Hall for the past 20 years has been run by Republican
former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who
ran in 2001 and 2005 as a Republican and in 2009 as an
independent also on the Republican ballot line. De Blasio took
the lead in the race after decrying economic inequality.  “All New Yorkers do better when no one is left behind,”
de Blasio said in an e-mail to supporters last night. “Do we
want to nibble around the edges of the inequities facing our
city, or do we want to fight for progress? I know New Yorkers
are ready for the bold progressive change this city needs.”  Bloomberg, 71, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, is barred by law from seeking a fourth
term.  Old Machines  The search for his replacement didn’t begin smoothly. Neal
Rosenstein, an advocate with the  New York  Public Interest
Research Group, said that by 12:30 p.m. local time, his
organization received 35 reports of broken lever-operated voting
machines across the city.  The machines, more than 50 years old, had been warehoused
in favor of computerized scanning devices. They returned to
service after Board of Elections officials said they didn’t have
confidence that the new equipment could process a Sept. 10
primary, Oct. 1 run-off and Nov. 5 general election on time
should close contests force recounts.  Board of Elections officials didn’t immediately answer
requests for information about the machines.  One precinct in Midtown East on 56th Street between Second
Ave. and Third Ave. had a line out the door about 11 a.m. People
who usually vote four blocks south had been redirected to the
location. Some had to walk through a children’s play area.  “It was very confusing the way it was set up,” said James
Mason, a 49-year-old computer programmer.  Labor Pains  Whoever emerges as the next mayor will confront expired
labor contracts with almost all the city’s 300,000 workforce.
Municipal unions have insisted that any wage increases include
retroactive pay for the years worked without a contract, a
proposition Bloomberg has rejected, saying it could cost as much
as 10 percent of the city’s $70 billion annual budget.  “There is considerable uncertainty about the field of
candidates, with issues of importance to the future of the
city’s economy largely unaddressed in the primary campaign,”
said Kathryn Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York
City, a non-partisan civic organization of 200 corporate chief
executives. “How the winning candidates present themselves in
the coming weeks will affect the momentum of economic growth,
job creation and civic engagement in the years ahead.”  Dante Commercial  De Blasio, a 52-year-old former city council member from
 Brooklyn , has proposed increasing the municipal tax on income
above $500,000 to raise $532 million to pay for all-day pre-kindergarten and after-school activities for adolescents. The
measure would have to be approved by the state legislature.  The candidate, who is white, has also highlighted his
opposition to police stop-and-frisk tactics, which affect mostly
young black and Latino men. His wife, Chirlane McCray, who is
black, is a frequent companion at campaign events. In a
television commercial, their 15-year-old son, Dante, sporting a
large Afro, praises his father as the candidate most likely to
rein in stop-and-frisk.  De Blasio has also criticized City Council Speaker
Christine Quinn, 47, for her role in 2008 backing a law that
permitted Bloomberg and council members to run for a third term,
abrogating two previous votes by referendum that limited local
officials to two terms.  October Runoff  De Blasio had support from 39 percent of likely Democratic
voters in a Quinnipiac University poll released yesterday. His
closest challenger, former city Comptroller William Thompson,
had 25 percent. If no candidate gets 40 percent, the top two
will compete in an Oct. 1 runoff.  Quinn had support from 18 percent of respondents in the
Quinnipiac poll. About 8 percent were undecided, and 18 percent
said they may change their minds. The poll has a margin of error
of 3.5 percentage points.  Thompson gained ground in the last few days of polling. A
Sept. 3 Quinnipiac poll gave de Blasio 43 percent, Thompson 20
percent and Quinn, 18 percent.  Of the other Democratic candidates, former U.S.
Representative Anthony Weiner has support from 6 percent; city
Comptroller John Liu, 4 percent; Sal Albanese, 1 percent.  “At stake is whether the next mayor continues the progress
the city has made in the last 12 years,” said William
Cunningham, who has been an adviser to former Governor Hugh
Carey, former U.S. Senator Daniel Moynihan and directed
communications during Bloomberg’s first term. “Will New York
remain the premier global city or will  London  or some other city
ascend as the top financial, artistic and commercial hub?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  