-- Delhi Rape Defendants Guilty of Attack That Shocked India
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-09-10T09:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/delhi-rape-defendants-found-guilty-of-attack-that-shocked-india.html
An Indian court found four men
guilty of the fatal gang rape of a student on a moving bus in
New Delhi in a case that caused national outrage and drew
attention to a surge in violence against women in the country.  After an eight-month trial, a specially convened fast-track
court in the nation’s capital found the men guilty of all the 13
offences they were charged with, including rape, murder and
robbery. Arguments on the sentencing will start tomorrow with
prosecutors and the victim’s family pushing for the death
penalty. Defense lawyers said they will appeal.  The men were convicted “for committing the murder of a
helpless person,” Judge Yogesh Khanna said, reading out his
verdict as the parents of the victim watched on with tears in
their eyes.  The attack on the medical student in December spurred weeks
of nationwide protests, triggered an unprecedented debate about
sexual violence in the world’s largest democracy and prompted
the government to impose stricter punishments. Tougher laws have
failed to deter criminals even as a photographer at a magazine
in Mumbai and a female police constable in the eastern state of
Jharkhand were gang raped last month.  About 50 protestors, some dressed in black hoods with ropes
around their necks, gathered outside the court chanting “hang
them, hang them, hang them” after the verdict.  No Mercy  “These people are a disgrace to the nation and they don’t
deserve any mercy,” said Usha Shukla, 48, who has been
participating in protest rallies since the incident happened.
“They should be hanged so others will be afraid to commit these
crimes.”  The 23-year-old physiotherapy student, whose name can’t be
published under laws forbidding the identification of rape
victims, was returning home from the cinema with a male friend
when six drunken men, including a teenager, attacked them on a
bus and then took turns to rape her.  In the brutal two-hour assault, the woman was repeatedly
violated with a metal rod before being dumped naked along with
her companion beside a road near New Delhi’s airport. The couple
was then ignored by passersby, while police argued over where to
take them as they lay bleeding on the street, according to the
woman’s friend. The victim died of her injuries two weeks later.  Reform Home  Her life story -- a journey from small town  India  to the
big city in search of an education and opportunity -- resonated
with millions who make the same journey each year. She was
working in a call center to fund her medical studies at the time
when she was murdered.  The victim’s family criticized the verdict of an Indian
juvenile court last month after it sentenced the teenager, who
was under the age of 18 at the time of the attack, to three
years in a reform home for his role in the assault and murder.
That is the maximum sentence that can be given to a juvenile
under Indian law.  A sixth defendant and the alleged ring leader committed
suicide in March in his cell, according to prison authorities.
His family and lawyer said he was murdered and had previously
been attacked by other inmates for his crimes.  The guilty verdict and speedy conclusion of the case may
encourage other women to report cases of rape, according to Indu
Agnihotri, director for the New Delhi-based Centre for Women’s
Development Studies. Brutal cases of rape take place every day
around India and are not reported, she said.  “The verdict sends a signal that there is a judicial
process that can move fast and bring culprits to book,”
Agnihotri said.  In the first six months of 2013, reported rapes in New
Delhi soared to 806 from 330 in the same period a year earlier.
The rise may reflect greater confidence in reporting assaults,
police said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  