-- Dell Said to Have Enough Votes for $24.9 Billion Buyout
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-09-10T20:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/dell-said-to-have-enough-votes-for-24-9-billion-buyout.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Silver Lake
Management LLC have secured enough votes for approval of their
proposed $24.9 billion leveraged buyout, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  Holders of two-thirds of the voting shares have indicated
their support for the proposed transaction, the largest
leveraged buyout since 2007, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the outcome isn’t public.  Michael Dell is poised to have his buyout sewn up after a
seven-month contest that left the fate of the world’s third-largest personal-computer maker in doubt for much of the year.
Billionaire financier  Carl Icahn  dropped his opposition to the
deal yesterday, removing what for several months was one of the
largest obstacles to getting the buyout approved.  “It’s going to make the shareholder meeting a lot
easier,” Shannon Cross, an analyst at Cross Research, said of
Icahn’s decision.  The results of the voting will be disclosed at a Sept. 12
meeting at Dell’s Round Rock,  Texas , headquarters. Three
previous shareholder events were adjourned as CEO Dell and
Silver Lake lacked the votes they needed to secure approval.
 David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment.  Investors, including Franklin Mutual Advisers and  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) , are supporting the offer after the buyout group sweetened
its proposal to $13.75 a share, plus a 13-cent special dividend
and guaranteed payment of the company’s third-quarter dividend.  Final Steps  “While we of course are saddened at our losing the battle
to control Dell, it certainly makes the loss a lot more
tolerable in that as a result of our involvement, Michael
Dell/Silver Lake increased what they said was their ‘best and
final offer,’” Icahn wrote in a letter yesterday. “As a result
of this increase all stockholders are to receive many hundreds
of millions of dollars more than the board originally
accepted.”  Dell, who serves as chairman and CEO, is pushing to take
the PC maker private so he can execute a turnaround plan outside
the spotlight of public markets.  “Now we’re going to have to just sit back and see whether
 Michael Dell  succeeds with the company,” Cross said. “It’s
going to be good for the industry that there is some certainty
about how Dell is going to end up.”  Activist Investor  The go-private deal is scheduled to close by the end of
Dell’s fiscal third quarter, which ends Nov. 1, and the company
isn’t anticipating regulatory hurdles to getting it done,
according to a person with knowledge of the process.  Icahn didn’t respond to a message left at his office. He
pointed out in the letter that Dell and Silver Lake’s final
offer price is still 70 percent below the stock’s 10-year high
of $42.38. Icahn had been trying to derail the deal and put
forward his own recapitalization plan.  Icahn’s partner, Southeastern Asset Management Inc., said
in a statement yesterday it’s “pleased that our efforts
contributed to the modest increase in merger consideration Dell
stockholders will receive.”  Icahn, 77, has shifted his focus to new targets, amassing
stakes in  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN)   Last Moves  Icahn has had his share of wins and losses with previous
proxy fights. An early victory for Icahn, who has long sought to
extract value from reluctant companies, was a battle with RJR
Nabisco Inc., the second-biggest U.S. tobacco company at the
time. The investor bought stock while pushing to split the
company’s food and tobacco operations.  Under pressure from Icahn, RJR Nabisco spun off its
cigarette arm, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, in June 1999, and renamed
itself Nabisco Holdings Corp. The move freed the company’s food
business from the taint of tobacco litigation, paving the way
for Philip Morris International Inc. to buy Nabisco for $18.9
billion in June 2000.  In 2008, Icahn threatened a proxy fight with  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) 
after the company rejected an acquisition offer by  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  Icahn eventually won board seats for himself and two other
directors, only to leave the board a year later. At that time,
the stock price had tumbled by more than a third from when he
first purchased shares.  While Icahn’s surrender removes a major obstacle to Michael
Dell and Silver Lake’s takeover bid, he said he was still
against the proposal and would seek appraisal rights.  Court Battle  In July, the investor disclosed that he had opted for
appraisal rights on the 152 million Dell shares that he owned.
At the time, he also urged other shareholders to seek appraisal
rights under Delaware law, a process that entitles them to
receive “fair value” for their shares as determined by the
state Chancery Court.  In order to qualify for the appraisal process, stockholders
must forgo voting in favor of Michael Dell’s bid and submit a
written demand for appraisal before the ballots are cast.
Investors must also file a petition with the court within 120
days of the closing date for the buyout to seek independent
appraisal of the value of their shares.  “There are clearly some cases where you got substantially
more than the deal price because the court in effect found that
the deal process was badly flawed,” said Charles Nathan, a
partner at RLM Finsbury LLC, a corporate-communications adviser.
“My impression is that has always been the aberration rather
than the norm.”  Dell rose less than 1 percent to $13.85 at the close in New
York, leaving the shares up 37 percent this year, mirroring the
increases in the takeover proposal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  