-- Democratic Campaign Head Predicts Syria Won’t Hurt Party in 2014
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-09-10T15:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/democratic-campaign-head-predicts-syria-won-t-hurt-party-in-2014.html
The head of the House Democratic
campaign effort predicted that President  Barack Obama ’s handling
of  Syria ’s civil war won’t be a drag on his party in the next
congressional election despite widespread public opposition to
his proposed military strike.  Even if House Democrats provide the overwhelming number of
votes to authorize a military strike against Syria, the U.S.
response to that country’s civil war won’t be central to voters’
thinking when they go to the polls next year, said
Representative Steve Israel of  New York , chairman of the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.  “If the strike is swift, in and out, focused on degrading
the chemical weapons capability” voters won’t “be thinking”
next year “about the debate on a very limited military
operation in 2013,”  Israel  told reporters at a breakfast
sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor.  Polls show a majority of Americans oppose a military strike
against Syria and lawmakers who voice concern about authorizing
one cite widespread resistance to the idea among their
constituents.  Israel, describing himself as “out front as you can get”
in support of a limited military strike to eliminate President
Bashar al-Assad’s chemical warfare capability, said the issue
“evaporates fairly quickly” if  Russia ’s diplomatic proposal to
place Syria’s chemical weapons under international control is
“the real deal.”  Even if Obama wages an attack on Syria, the 2014 election
“is not going to be a referendum on Syria,” he said. “It will
be a referendum on solutions, a referendum on who is willing to
get things done,” he said.  Republicans have 233 seats to 200 held by Democrats, with
two vacancies. Democrats would need a net gain of 18 seats to
win the majority, which they lost to Republicans in the 2010
election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  