-- Dentons, Latham, Cleary, Arnold & Porter: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/dentons-latham-cleary-arnold-porter-business-of-law.html
Dentons LLP advised  Molex Inc. (MOLX) , a
maker of electronic components for products such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone, which agreed to a $7.2 billion acquisition by Koch
Industries Inc., the holding company controlled by the
billionaire Koch brothers. Latham & Watkins LLP represented
Wichita, Kansas-based Koch.  Dentons’ team was led by Mike Froy, corporate and
securities partner. Members of the team included Matthew
Dyckman, corporate and securities; Pamela Baker, employee
benefits; and Stephen Libowsky, antitrust/competition.  Latham advised Koch with a Chicago-based deal team led by
corporate partners Mark Gerstein, Bradley Faris and Timothy FitzSimons. Advice was also provided by Bradley Kotler and David Rathgeber, financing; Sean Berkowitz and Catherine Palmer,
corporate compliance; Bradd Williamson, benefits and
compensation; Diana Doyle, tax; Art Foerster, environmental;
Jeffrey Tochner, intellectual property;  David Shapiro , real
estate; and  Richard Brown , U.K. securities matters.  Koch will buy Molex’s shares for $38.50 apiece, a 31
percent premium over the publicly traded common stock, according
to a statement yesterday. The companies expect to complete the
transaction by the end of the year.  Koch, a closely held company that owns biofuel and
fertilizer makers to commodity-trading services, is using the
acquisition to expand into connector components. The deal won
the support of the Krehbiel family, which has controlled Molex
since it began as a manufacturer of moldable plastic in 1938.  The deal will turn Molex into a stand-alone division of
Koch, with the company retaining its name and headquarters in
Lisle, Illinois. Molex sells interconnection systems to
automakers, mobile-phone companies and military customers. That
includes Apple, which uses some Molex connectors for the iPhone
5, the top-selling smartphone.  For more, click here.  Neiman Marcus Bought by Ares, Canada Fund for $6 Billion  Cleary Gottlieb  Steen & Hamilton LLP advised Neiman Marcus
Inc., the Dallas-based luxury chain, on its agreement to sell
itself to Ares Management LLC and the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board for $6 billion. Proskauer Rose LLP advised Ares
Management and the Canada Pension Plan. Latham & Watkins LLP was
finance counsel to the buyers.  Cleary Gottlieb, which acted as counsel to TPG Capital and
 Warburg Pincus  as well as Neiman Marcus, had a deal team that
included Bob Davis and David Leinwand, mergers and acquisitions.
Additional team members included Meme Peponis and Amy Shapiro,
finance; Jason Factor, tax; Brian Byrne, antitrust; Steven Horowitz, real estate.  The Proskauer deal team was led by Michael Woronoff, co-head of the firm’s private equity/mergers and acquisitions group
and head of the Los Angeles office.  Latham is advising Ares on financing related to the Neiman
Marcus transaction with a team led by partners Kirk Davenport,
Joshua Tinkelman and Jason Licht.  Ares and the pension fund will hold an equal economic
interest in Neiman, and the chain’s management will retain a
minority stake, the buyers said in a statement yesterday. The
deal probably ends prospects for a Neiman initial public
offering.  For more, click here.  Moves  Senior FTC Antitrust Attorney Joins Arnold & Porter  Peter J. Levitas, a former deputy director in the Bureau of
Competition at the Federal Trade Commission, will join  Arnold &
Porter  LLP’s Washington office as partner in the antitrust
group.  In his government position, which Levitas held for four
years, he was responsible for the FTC’s Mergers 1, Health Care,
and Anticompetitive Practices divisions, as well as the FTC’s
Northeast Regional Office in New York, the firm said in a
statement. He oversaw investigations and related litigation for
merger and conduct cases and was the lead negotiator in the
settlement of the Intel litigation, as well as the Google
investigations, according to the firm.  “Pete brings deep knowledge of the policy, investigation
and litigation issues at both the state and federal levels,”
Arnold & Porter Chairman Thomas H. Milch said in the statement.
“As an experienced antitrust attorney with a broad range of
government experience, he fully understands the competition
landscape facing corporations today, particularly those who may
be dealing with state or federal  investigations of a merger or
alleged anticompetitive conduct.”  Levitas also worked for more than five years as a trial
attorney in the Department of Justice antitrust division. He
previously spent seven years as the staff director and chief
counsel to the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on
Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights.  Arnold & Porter LLP has more than 800 lawyers at eight
offices in the U.S. and Europe.  Justice Department’s Avi Gesser Returns to Davis Polk  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP said Avi Gesser, former deputy
director of the U.S.  Justice Department , criminal division’s
Deepwater Horizon task force, will rejoin the firm’s litigation
department as a partner in the white-collar criminal defense
group.  Gesser, who worked on the task force from early 2011
through August, was responsible for its operation and jointly
responsible for investigating and prosecuting BP, Transocean and
Halliburton in connection with the Macondo  oil spill  in the  Gulf
of Mexico , the firm said. In 2013, the companies all pleaded
guilty to criminal conduct in connection with the oil spill, the
largest criminal resolution in U.S. history.  From mid-2010 to December 2012, Gesser was the counsel to
the chief of the Justice Department, criminal division’s fraud
section, where he assisted in overseeing more than 100 federal
prosecutors who work on Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
securities, health care, and other fraud investigations.  “We are delighted to welcome back Avi, whose invaluable
government experience will be a great asset to our world-class
white collar criminal defense team assisting our clients on
their most sensitive investigations and trials,” Thomas J. Reid, Davis Polk’s managing partner said in a statement. “Avi
joins a long list of Davis Polk lawyers who have returned to the
firm after government service, such as a number of our current
litigators who have held senior positions with the DOJ, the SEC,
the White House and the CIA.”  Davis Polk has more than 750 lawyers in offices in the
Americas, Europe and Asia.  Former White House Senior Lawyer Bershteyn Rejoins Skadden  Boris Bershteyn, who held several senior legal and
regulatory positions at the White House and its Office of
Management and Budget, rejoined Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP as of counsel in New York.  Bershteyn will focus on regulatory and enforcement actions
by government agencies, as well as on  Supreme Court , appellate
and trial-level litigation.  Bershteyn was acting administrator of the Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs from 2012 to 2013, where he
headed the federal agency that reviews executive branch agencies
regulations. Before that, he was general counsel of OMB, where
he coordinated the office’s litigation and compliance matters,
and counseled the OMB director on administrative, regulatory,
fiscal, and legislative issues, the firm said.  He also worked as OMB’s deputy general counsel from 2009 to
2010. From 2010 to 2011, Bershteyn was special assistant to the
president and associate White House counsel, advising senior
administration officials on legal aspects of regulatory,
economic, health, and environmental policy.  “As clients around the world face an increasingly complex
global regulatory environment and high-stakes disputes across
jurisdictions, Boris’ skills and insight will further enhance
our capacity to respond,” David M. Zornow, global head of
Skadden’s litigation and controversy practices, said in a
statement.  Skadden has about 1,800 attorneys at 23 offices in the
Americas, Europe and Asia.  News  Secret Swiss Accounts No Longer Safe Tax Dodge, Prosecutor Says  Taxpayers who still believe they can hide secret Swiss bank
accounts from the Internal Revenue Service are “beyond
foolish,” the top U.S. tax prosecutor said as a five-year
crackdown expands to new offshore havens,  Bloomberg News ’ David
Voreacos reports.  The enforcement drive has forced a “remarkable” change in
the ability of the U.S. to find secret accounts in Switzerland,
the world’s largest offshore financial center with about $2.2
trillion of assets, said Kathryn Keneally, assistant attorney
general in the Justice Department’s tax division.  “If someone had an account in Switzerland, it is beyond
foolish to think that that account is going to remain secret,”
said Keneally, 55. “In the last five years, we’ve seen a
remarkable change in our ability to get information concerning
Swiss bank accounts. It’s extraordinary. Switzerland is no
longer a good place to hide assets for tax reasons.”  Keneally, in her first interview since taking the job in
April 2012, said a new U.S. amnesty program for Swiss banks to
disclose how they aided tax evasion puts taxpayers and offshore
enablers at risk of prosecution. Since 2009, the U.S. has
prosecuted 68 U.S. taxpayers, three Swiss banks, and 30 bankers,
lawyers, and advisers. Another 38,000 Americans moved $5.5
billion to the U.S. and avoided prosecution by saying who helped
them offshore.  Fourteen firms, including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the
second-largest Swiss bank;  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the largest
European bank; and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , Switzerland’s third-largest wealth manager, are under criminal investigation. On
Aug. 29, the U.S. announced a program for other Swiss banks to
avoid charges.  They must pay penalties, disclose their cross-border
activities, give detailed account information for U.S. clients,
describe other banks that got their secret accounts, and
cooperate in requests for information under a U.S.-Swiss tax
treaty. Banks that don’t come forward by the Dec. 31 deadline
could face criminal charges, Keneally said.  For more, click here.  Veteran Malpractice Payouts Hit 12-Year High on Taxpayer Tab  A $17.5 million malpractice judgment on behalf of veteran
Christopher Ellison against the Department of Veterans Affairs
in 2012 was the largest against the agency in a dozen years,
Bloomberg News’ Kathleen Miller reports.  It was one of more than  400 payments  the U.S. government
made last year to resolve VA malpractice claims, according to
agency records obtained through a Freedom of Information Act
request. The total cost came to  $91.7 million , also the highest
sum in at least 12 years.  The cases against the VA have included missed diagnoses,
delayed treatment and procedures performed on wrong body parts.
U.S. lawmakers and veterans’ advocates say they reflect deep
flaws in the agency’s  health-care  system even as the department
tends to more former troops, including those who fought in Iraq
and Afghanistan.  “The rapid rise in malpractice judgments against VA
mirrors the emerging pattern of preventable veteran deaths and
other patient safety issues at VA hospitals,” Representative
Jeff Miller, a Florida Republican and chairman of the House
veterans committee, said in an e-mailed statement. “What’s
missing from the equation is not money or manpower -- it’s
accountability.”  The 2012 malpractice payments stemmed from both court
judgments and administration settlements. The payouts, made by
the U.S. Treasury’s Judgment Fund, rose 28 percent last year
from about $72 million in 2011, the VA records showed. Taxpayers
have spent at least $700 million to resolve claims filed against
the veterans agency since 2001, according to the data.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Chevron Won’t Seek Money Damages in Ecuador Pollution Case  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said it won’t seek monetary damages against
two plaintiffs in a racketeering suit the company filed claiming
they committed fraud to win a $19 billion verdict in a pollution
case in Ecuador.  The company today also asked that the trial, set to begin
in federal court in Manhattan next month, be held in two parts,
one before a federal jury and a second phase before a judge.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S.  oil company , was ordered
to pay as much as $19 billion in compensatory and punitive
damages for Texaco Inc.’s alleged dumping of toxic drilling
wastes in the Ecuadorean jungle from 1964 to about 1992. The
ruling came in an 18-year-old lawsuit decided by a judge in Lago
Agrio, a provincial capital near the Colombian border.  The company filed a racketeering suit in federal court in
New York in 2011 accusing the Ecuadoreans and their lead legal
adviser, Steven Donziger, of improperly influencing a court
expert in the case in Lago Agrio and committing fraud to win the
judgment. U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in New York, who is
presiding over the case, has scheduled an Oct. 15 trial.  The San Ramon, California-based oil company said it won’t
seek money damages against two Ecuadoreans and that a jury
should determine claims of liability against all of the
defendants as well as Donziger and his law firm.  Chevron also asked that a jury determine what, if any,
compensatory and punitive monetary damages should be paid by
Donziger and asked Kaplan to determine what remedies should be
imposed. The company is asking Kaplan to decide if the
plaintiffs should be barred from further harming Chevron and to
issue an order that protects its assets.  Chevron denies wrongdoing in the  Lago Agrio  lawsuit. The
company said Texaco cleaned up its share of the pollution at its
former oil fields, which were taken over by PetroEcuador,
Ecuador’s state-owned oil company. Chevron said it was released
from any future liability by an agreement between Texaco and
Ecuador. Chevron acquired Texaco in 2001.  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-00691,
U.S. District Court, District of New York (Manhattan). The case
in Ecuador is Maria Aquinda v. Chevron, 002-2003, Superior Court
of Nueva Loja, Lago Agrio, Ecuador.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  