-- Deutsche Bank Faces Hearing Over Fired Euribor Traders’ Claims
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-09-10T07:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/deutsche-bank-faces-hearing-over-fired-euribor-traders-claims.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  faces a hearing in
a lawsuit by four traders fired over the lender’s role in the
alleged rigging of interest benchmarks after mandated mediation
failed to produce a settlement.  The  Frankfurt  labor court will hear arguments tomorrow over
whether the four men were wrongfully dismissed by the bank in
February. Another banker, who was the most junior of the group,
reached a settlement with the bank, two people familiar with the
matter said in July.  “Why the bank fired them and other details of the case
will be discussed at the hearing,” said Gesine Brackert, a
spokeswoman for the labor court.  Regulators from  Canada  to  Switzerland  are investigating
whether more than a dozen lenders, including Deutsche Bank,
colluded to rig benchmark  interest rates  including the London
and Euro-area interbank offered rates for profit or to mask
their true cost of borrowing.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , UBS AG and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc have paid a total of about $2.5
billion in fines after admitting wrongdoing.  Deutsche Bank has fired at least seven employees over
suspected misconduct in connection with rates. The bank,
continental  Europe ’s largest by assets, said in February that
while it would fire or suspend workers that acted
inappropriately, it wouldn’t identify individuals.  Deutsche Bank justified the dismissal of the employees by
saying they had inappropriate communication with a trader the
bank fired at the end of 2011 for trying to rig rates, one of
the people familiar with the matter said in July.  Certain Employees  “We found that certain employees, acting on their own
initiative, had engaged in conduct that fell short of the Bank’s
standards,” Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, said yesterday. “Action was taken
accordingly, including suspension or dismissal of employees and
clawing back of unvested compensation.”  Peter Roelz, a lawyer for the four traders, declined to
comment on the trial.  The traders fired in February were based in Frankfurt and
included two managing directors, two directors and a vice
president, two people with knowledge of the matter said at the
time. Submitting euro interbank offered rates was part of their
responsibilities, the people said.  A mediation hearing in April didn’t yield any results.  Deutsche Bank isn’t the only lender to terminate traders
over the rates probes. RBS has fired seven people for Libor-related misconduct, including two managers, a person familiar
with the matter said in April. More than 25 people have left UBS
after an internal review of interest-rate manipulation, a person
familiar with the matter said in November.  Barclays has disciplined 13 employees and dismissed five,
 Rich Ricci , the bank’s former head of corporate and investment
banking, told British lawmakers in November.  Deutsche Bank said a year ago that its internal rates probe
found misconduct by individual employees though no wrongdoing by
current or former board members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 