-- Disney Pulls Bruckheimer’s ‘Pirates’ Film From 2015 Slate
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-09-11T17:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/disney-pulls-bruckheimer-s-pirates-film-from-summer-2015-slate.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  indefinitely
delayed the planned summer 2015 release of “Pirates of the
Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales,” the fifth film in the
successful action series.  The movie is being produced by Jerry Bruckheimer, whose
latest Disney film, “The Lone Ranger,” flopped with audiences
this summer. The latest “Pirates,” set to star Johnny Depp,
was scheduled to open July 10 of that year, the Burbank,
California-based company said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. Disney didn’t provide an explanation.  The “Pirates” movies rank among Disney’s most lucrative,
along with Marvel and Pixar films. The first four have produced
$3.73 billion in worldwide ticket sales since “The Curse of the
Black Pearl” was released in 2003, according to researcher Box
Office Mojo. The studio has struggled to boost profit with
results held back by flops like “John Carter.”  This quarter, Disney may record a loss of as much as $190
million on “The Lone Ranger.” The picture, released in July,
also starred Depp. Bruckheimer didn’t respond to a request for
comment left with his assistant.  The Hollywood Reporter, yesterday cited script issues on
the new “Pirates” movie for the delay.  Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros. said in July it would
release a summer 2015 film that features comic book heroes
Batman and Superman together.  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, rose 1.5
percent to $63.79 at 1:20 p.m. in New York. The  stock  had gained
26 percent this year through yesterday, compared with 16 percent
for the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  