-- DoCoMo Ends IPhone Holdout to Win Back Customers
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-09-11T07:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/docomo-ends-iphone-holdout-to-win-back-customers.html
NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  agreed to offer
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s latest iPhones as Japan’s largest mobile carrier
seeks to reverse market-share losses to smaller rivals.  Two new smartphones, including a cheaper version in bright
colors and an updated high-end device, will go on sale Sept. 20
for the Japanese carrier’s network, Tokyo-based DoCoMo said in a
statement. Apple debuted the 5C and 5S iPhones at an event at
its Cupertino, California, headquarters.  DoCoMo had resisted the iPhone to focus on handsets from
 Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and protect its online
store, called dmarket, from competition with iTunes, a stance
that’s resulted in customers moving to rival wireless carriers.
DoCoMo’s share of mobile users slumped to 46 percent in August,
compared with  52 percent  in 2008, as first  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  and
then  KDDI Corp. (9433)  won Japanese users with the Apple handset.  “The causes of cancellation for DoCoMo’s phones has been
the lack of iPhone and this would prevent customers from
moving,” said Yusuke Tsunoda, an analyst at Tokai Tokyo
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “As all three will have the iPhone,
they will compete on price, sales method and network.”  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest carrier by users, is
the biggest Asian operator that doesn’t offer the Apple
smartphone. The companies are close to an agreement for the
iPhone, a person with knowledge of the matter said last week.  Apple had  36.1 percent  of Japanese smartphone shipments in
the latest quarter, compared with 20.6 percent for Sony and 13.9
percent for  Sharp Corp. (6753) , according to research-firm IDC.  Seeking Share  The iPhone 5C, which has a plastic casing and a 4-inch
screen, will come in blue, green, pink, yellow and white. The
iPhone 5S will come in white, black and gold and has a 64-bit
chip that the company said will make it work twice as fast as
the iPhone 5. It will also have Touch ID fingerprint-sensor
technology that is located on the phone’s Home button, which
people can use to unlock their phone and confirm purchases from
iTunes and Apple’s app store.  Adding a wireless provider controlling the largest share of
 Japan ’s mobile-phone market is critical for Apple as sales and
 profit growth  have slowed and it seeks new customers for its
handsets. Apple plans to open a store in Tokyo’s upscale
Omotesando shopping district as early as March, adding its first
outlet in the city since 2005, a person familiar with the plans
said last month.  DoCoMo  fell  2.4 percent to 161,100 yen at the close of
trade in Tokyo. SoftBank gained 2.2 percent and KDDI advanced
2.2 percent. DoCoMo has risen 30 percent this year, compared
with a 71 percent rise for KDDI and a more than doubling in
SoftBank’s stock price.  Catching Up  DoCoMo has been adding fewer subscribers than KDDI and
SoftBank, partly because it doesn’t offer the iPhone. DoCoMo
added 43,000 users in August, compared with 209,200 at KDDI and
250,300 for SoftBank, according to the Telecommunications
Carriers Association in Japan.  The addition of the iPhone for DoCoMo could curb growth at
SoftBank, Satoru Kikuchi, an analyst at SMBC, said in a Sept. 4
report. Japan’s third-ranked carrier, led by billionaire
Masayoshi Son, has used the Apple handset to revive its
business, and this year completed a $21.6 billion deal to take
control of Sprint Corp. in the U.S.  “It’s negative for SoftBank as the image that SoftBank’s
network is weak still remains,” said Hideki Yasuda, an analyst
at Ace Research Institute in  Tokyo . “SoftBank has improved its
sales and profit dramatically thanks to iPhone.”  DoCoMo Chief Financial Officer Kazuto Tsubouchi said in an
interview last month that the carrier was reducing the number of
phone models in its stores by as many as half, as its focused
promotions on Sony and Samsung handsets.  Smartphone Strategies  Tsubouchi said at the time that DoCoMo would consider
offering the iPhone if it could limit the smartphone’s share of
sales to less than 30 percent of the company’s total. The
Japanese carrier’s dmarket online store offers music, videos and
games, competing against Apple’s iTunes Store.  DoCoMo forecast smartphone sales would rise 20 percent to
16 million units in the year ending March 31 from 13.3 million a
year earlier, the company said in April.  The carrier’s so-called two-top strategy to promote Sony’s
Xperia and Samsung’s Galaxy in its summer campaign is hurting
sales for other suppliers.  NEC Corp. (6701)  said in July it ended
development of smartphones, and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  said Sept. 4 its
smartphone operations will probably shrink due to falling sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  