-- Dow Jones Industrials to Add Goldman Sachs, Nike Shares
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-09-10T21:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/dow-jones-industrial-average-to-add-goldman-sachs-visa-nike.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Visa (V)  Inc.
and  Nike Inc. (NKE)  will be added to the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) ,
replacing  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Alcoa
Inc. (AA)  in the biggest reshuffling since April 2004.  The changes will boost the influence of banking and
computer companies in the 30-member  gauge  as the fifth-biggest
U.S. bank by assets and the largest payment network join seven
other financial and technology firms, such as JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Cisco Systems Inc. Bank of America exits even after
rising  109 percent  in 2012, the Dow’s largest gain. The changes
will take effect after the close on Sept. 20.  Moves announced today by a committee that includes editors
of the Wall Street Journal will give extra influence to the
average’s newest members, due to the way the gauge is designed.
Since Dow proportions are determined by stock price rather than
market value, shares of Visa and Goldman Sachs, which trade
above $160 apiece, will have about seven times the weighting as
the constituents they replace.  “The Dow is going to look and act very differently,”  Dan Greenhaus , a strategist at BTIG LLC, said in a note to clients.
“Visa would become the second-most important stock in the index
and Goldman Sachs the third-most important.”  The Dow’s price-weighting system has proven a barrier to
inclusion for some of America’s most-heavily traded technology
stocks.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which change hands above
$500, have been left out. At the same time, the three companies
to be removed had the lowest prices in the average.  Higher Priced  The addition of higher-priced stocks reduces the weighting
for other members, according to a report from Bespoke Investment
Group. Goldman Sachs, Visa and Nike shares have an average price
of $134.48, while Hewlett-Packard, Alcoa and Bank of America
trade at $14.97 on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. International Business Machines Corp., which
comprises 9.4 percent of the Dow average, will see its weighting
drop by 1.5 percent, Bespoke said.  “Clearly, Google and Apple are huge companies, very big
and very well known, and there’s no question that they’re very
important to the U.S. and the global economy,”  David Blitzer ,
chairman of the index committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices, said
in a conference call with reporters. “The prices of their
stocks are so high that putting Google in would completely
distort the index and it wouldn’t work.”  Lowest Price  Goldman Sachs climbed 3.5 percent to $165.14 in  New York .
Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike jumped 2.2 percent to $66.82 and
Visa in Foster City, California, increased 3.4 percent to
$184.59.  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard lost 0.4
percent to $22.27 and Alcoa in New York fell 0.3 percent to
$8.06. Bank of America in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , rose 0.9
percent to $14.61.  The Dow average was devised in 1896 by Charles H. Dow, co-founder of Wall Street Journal publisher Dow Jones & Co. It
originally included General Electric Co., American Tobacco and
10 other companies before expanding to 20 companies in 1916 and
30 in 1928.  The average was last reshuffled in September, when
UnitedHealth Group Inc. replaced Kraft Foods Inc., which spun
off its North American grocery business.  ‘Big Change’  “It’s a pretty big change,” Richard Moroney, editor of
Dow Theory Forecasts newsletter who manages $180 million at
Hammond, Indiana-based Horizon Investment Services, said in a
phone interview. “Does it make it more representative? Yes, I
think it gives you more stocks that can actually have an impact
on what’s going on with the Dow.”  Goldman Sachs shares have more than tripled since their
2008 low though they remain down more than 30 percent since
hitting $247.92 in October 2007. Second-quarter earnings doubled
as overall revenue rose 30 percent, helped by record fees for
debt underwriting. It held the top spot among arrangers of
global equity, equity-linked and rights offerings in the first
half, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are pleased to join this historic and significant
market benchmark, and remain dedicated to delivering value for
our shareholders as a member of the Dow 30,”  Michael DuVally , a
spokesman, wrote in an e-mail.  Programming Error  Goldman has struggled to separate itself from controversy
in the last year. A programming error caused it to spew
unintended stock-options orders on American exchanges last
month, roiling markets and shaking confidence in electronic
trading infrastructure. Fabrice Tourre, a former vice president,
was found liable on Aug. 1 for six of seven claims related to a
allegations of fraud in a failed $1 billion investment tied to
the housing collapse.  Visa, which is categorized as an information technology
company by S&P and a financial services firm by Russell
Investments and Bloomberg, sets interchange fees and collects
money for credit card-issuing banks. The stock is up 22 percent
in 2013 after rising three of the last four years. At more than
$180, it would vie with IBM for the Dow’s biggest weighting.  Shares of Nike have climbed every year since 2008 and
traded at an all-time high of $66.98 earlier today. The world’s
largest maker of sporting goods reported net income in the
quarter ended May 31 of $668 million, up 22 percent from a year
ago, as demand surged for running and basketball gear in its
largest market, North America.  China Revenue  At the same time, the company reduced its annual forecast
for sales and earnings and said revenue in  China  would decline
in the next two quarters. Nike collected 9.7 of its revenue from
China in its most recent fiscal year.  Alcoa, the largest American aluminum producer, is being
removed after plunging more than 80 percent since its 2007 high
and seeing its debt-rating cut to speculative grade this year --
making it the second junk-rated Dow average company in at least
three decades. Trading around $8, it has the smallest influence
on the average. The company said in a statement that the move
has no effect on Alcoa’s business strategy.  Removal from the Dow “seemed almost like a preemptive
move,”  Jorge Beristain , a Greenwich, Connecticut-based analyst
with Deutsche Bank AG, said in a telephone interview today.
“Fifteen years ago these guys were the world’s biggest metals
and mining company,” Beristain said. “They have pursued a
strategy that has clearly not yielded results.”  Autonomy Writedown  Hewlett-Packard, which took an $8.8 billion writedown
related to its acquisition of Autonomy Corp. in November 2012,
has declined for three straight years, and at about $22 is the
average’s third-smallest stock. Its trailing 12-month revenue
plummeted the most in more than a decade last fiscal quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “HP remains confident that we are making progress in our
turnaround,” Michael Thacker, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.
“We have delivered financial performance in line with or better
than our expectations throughout this fiscal year, and remain
focused on delivering  shareholder value .”  Even with its 2012 gain and a 26 percent advance this year,
Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender, remains more
than 70 percent below its high of $54.90 reached in November
2006. Two people with direct knowledge of its plans said
yesterday the company will eliminate about 2,100 jobs and
shutter 16 mortgage offices as rising interest rates weaken loan
demand.  The index change “has no impact on our business or our
strategy for providing solid returns to shareholders,”  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman, said in a statement.  In 2004, American International Group Inc., Verizon
Communications Inc. and Pfizer Inc. were added to the Dow
average, reflecting the growing importance of finance and health
care to the  U.S. economy  and stock market. Eastman Kodak Co.,
International Paper Co. and AT&T Corp., the average’s three
smallest companies by market value, were removed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  