-- Draghi Coaxes First Euro Bond on Low Rates Pledge: Russia Credit
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   M a r k   S w e e t m a n
-- 2013-09-10T13:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/draghi-coaxes-first-euro-bond-on-low-rates-pledge-russia-credit.html
Russia  sold its first sovereign
bonds in euros, along with dollar debt, lured to the 17-nation
common currency by the prospect of interest rates staying at
record lows.  The government raised 725 million euros ($962 million) of
seven-year euro-denominated securities and is selling $6 billion
of dollar bonds, according to a person with direct knowledge of
the sale, who asked not to be identified as the information
isn’t public. Russia priced its euro notes at a 3.702 percent
yield, the person said. That compares with 3.51 percent for 10-year debt in the currency from  Mexico , which has the same rating
at Moody’s Investors Service, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Russia entered the euro debt market spurred by European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s Sept. 5 pledge that
monetary policy will remain accommodative for “as long as
necessary.” Treasury yields have been rising on speculation the
Federal Reserve will start scaling back $85 billion of monthly
bond purchases at a two-day meeting from Sept. 17.  “The euro was for many years before seen as a more
expensive currency, but now it’s not so obvious given the
prospects of tapering,” Dmitry Dudkin, head of fixed-income
research at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said yesterday by
e-mail. “Draghi promises more accommodation if necessary for
years to come.”  Dollar Sales  The government is also raising $3 billion of 10-year bonds
and $1.5 billion in 30-year bonds, both at 220 basis points
above U.S. Treasuries, and $1.5 billion of January 2019
securities at 195, according to another person with direct
knowledge of the offering, asking not to be identified as the
information is private. Russia is rated Baa1 at Moody’s, the
third-lowest investment-grade status. South Africa sold $2
billion in 12-year bonds, a person with knowledge of the deal
said yesterday.  Bonds in euros have been outperforming dollar debt, with
the yield on Russian natural-gas exporter OAO Gazprom’s March
2020 securities dropping 92 basis points from a June 24 peak,
compared with a decline of 46 basis points for its similar-maturity dollar bonds. Oil unit OAO Gazprom Neft has sold debt
in euros this year as have OAO Russian Railways and state
development bank Vnesheconombank.  Draghi has pledged support for the euro-region’s economy
after it expanded 0.3 percent in the second quarter, in line
with a previous estimate from the European Union’s statistics
office. The area’s trade surplus increased to 14.9 billion euros
in June, according to Eurostat data.  Euro Investors  The euro area’s balance of payments and trade surplus
“mean that banks are looking for somewhere to invest,” Dmitri Barinov, who oversees $2.6 billion of debt at Union Investment
Privatfonds in  Frankfurt  and was a buyer of the Russian bonds,
said yesterday by e-mail.  While selling seven-year euro notes, Russia canceled a 12-year tranche of euro-denominated bonds as part of an initial
plan to raise a maximum of 1.5 billion euros in two parts, one
of the people said.  The seven-year portion is the “more normal benchmark,”
Richard Segal, the head of international credit strategy at
Jefferies Group Inc. in London, said in e-mailed comments
yesterday. “Investors wanted to be on the safe side with the
shorter maturity.”  Sovereign Bonds  Emerging-market bonds, which plunged after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22 the U.S. could start scaling back
measures if the employment outlook signaled “sustainable
improvement,” gained Sept. 6 as data showed America added fewer
jobs than forecast.  Russia, the world’s biggest energy producer, sold $7
billion of bonds, including 30-year debt, last year with demand
totaling $24 billion. The yield on the country’s April 2042 bond
climbed 10 basis points to 5.928 percent as of 5:50 p.m. in
Moscow, compared with a yield at issue of 5.798 percent. The
extra yield investors demand to hold Russia’s dollar debt rather
than Treasuries rose two basis points to 242, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Russia avoided euro-denominated bonds in previous years
because of the “severe volatility stemming from the euro-zone
sovereign debt crisis,” Blaise Antin, who helps oversee $10
billion of developing-nation debt as head of emerging-market
research at TCW Group Inc. in Los Angeles, said by e-mail
yesterday.  “It makes sense for Russia to diversify its funding
base,” Antin said. The euro market has “stabilized to a
considerable degree, enabling Russia finally to tap back into
the European real money investor base,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Sweetman in Moscow at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in  London  at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net  