-- Dry South America Weather Seen Delaying Crop Sowing by Oil World
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-09-10T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/dry-south-america-weather-seen-delaying-crop-sowing-by-oil-world.html
Farmers in  Brazil  and Argentina,
 South America ’s biggest corn and soybean growers, face dry
weather just as planting is about to begin, Oil World said.  Dryness stretching from the central Brazilian states of
Mato Grosso and Goias into most crop areas in Argentina is
stressing wheat fields and delaying the start of sowing corn,
soybeans and sunflowers, the researcher said today in an e-mailed report. Argentine growing areas had 10 percent or less of
normal rainfall in August and Brazil probably will remain dry
through September’s third week, according to the report.  Dry weather in Brazil “is delaying the start of corn and
soybean plantings and jeopardizing satisfactory germination,”
Hamburg-based Oil World said. “It is still early in the season,
but there is an increasing risk that insufficient soil moisture
will result in deteriorated new crop prospects.”  Soybean futures on the Chicago Board of Trade, the global
benchmark, climbed 12 percent since the end of July as heat and
dryness eroded crops in the U.S., the world’s biggest grower of
the oilseed. Brazil is the largest global soybean exporter and
Argentina ranks second for corn shipments, after the U.S.  Rain was heavy in southern parts of Brazil, including the
state of  Rio Grande  do Sul and southern Parana, as well as
growing areas of Uruguay and  Paraguay , Oil World said.  Argentine Planting  Argentina started “isolated” corn sowing in this month’s
first week, while “well-spread rainfall is urgently required”
in the provinces of Cordoba and  Santa Fe  in the next two to four
weeks, the researcher said. Extended dry weather means planting
may be below the 3.56 million hectares (8.8 million acres)
estimated by the Bolsa de Cereales de  Buenos Aires , according to
the report.  Sunflower planting stopped temporarily in Argentina in the
week of Sept. 5 because of dry conditions, even though fieldwork
must finish in northern areas by the end of this month, Oil
World said. Planting may fall short of this year’s intended area
of 1.9 million hectares, it said.  Soybean planting in Argentina usually only starts in
October or early November, so there is still time for rain to
arrive, Oil World said. Recent price gains may also encourage
farmers to expand sowing if conditions improve.  “For South American farmers, soybeans have gained
considerable attractiveness relative to corn and other crops,”
the researcher said. “We have raised our forecasts of soybean
plantings for Brazil and  Argentina  at the expense of corn. This
is likely to improve the soybean crop size in early 2014, unless
weather conditions deteriorate.”  World soybean production may be 280 million metric tons in
the 2013-14 season, or 14 million tons more than a year earlier,
according to the report. Oil World said it plans to release new
supply and demand forecasts for 10 major oilseed crops,
including breakdowns by country, in its next monthly report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  