-- Durbin Seeks Probe of Caribbean Schools With U.S. Loan Access
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-09-11T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/durbin-seeks-probe-of-caribbean-schools-with-u-s-loan-access.html
U.S. Senator Dick Durbin called for
an examination of for-profit medical schools in the Caribbean
that have access to federal student loans yet may be subject to
standards below those set for medical students in the U.S.  Two schools, American University of the Caribbean School of
Medicine and Ross University School of Medicine, have accepted
hundreds of students turned down by U.S. medical colleges. These
students amass more debt than their U.S. counterparts and have a
higher dropout rate, Durbin said in a letter late yesterday to
Education Secretary Arne Duncan, citing a report by Bloomberg
Markets.  For-profit college companies have faced increased scrutiny
from federal and state officials over their recruiting
practices, graduation rates and high student debt levels.
Students at AUC and Ross, owned by for-profit operator  DeVry
Inc. (DV) , and St. George’s University School of Medicine, also based
in the Caribbean, received about $450 million in U.S. student
loans in the year ended June 2012.  “It is my understanding that they are able to do this
because of a 1992 loophole that allowed a small number of
foreign medical schools to qualify for federal funds under lower
standards than other medical schools,” Durbin, a Democrat from
 Illinois , said in the letter. “If this is true, it seems to
allow these schools access to millions in federal funds with
little to no oversight or accountability.”  DeVry’s medical schools are approved for the student-loan
program because the Education Department’s National Committee on
Foreign Medical Education and Accreditation reviews standards
used by foreign countries to accredit medical schools and
determines whether they are comparable to standards used in the
U.S., Ernie Gibble, a spokesman for Downers Grove, Illinois-based DeVry, said in an e-mail.  “They met high academic standards, not due to a
‘loophole,’” Gibble said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  