-- The Cost of Training Doctors Offshore
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-10T04:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/the-cost-of-training-doctors-offshore.html
U.S. tax dollars are financing for-profit medical schools in the Caribbean that are not accredited
in the U.S.,  Janet Lorin  reports in the October issue of
Bloomberg Markets magazine, putting taxpayers, students and
patients at risk. The U.S. may face a doctor shortage, but this
isn’t the way to fix it.  Thanks to a legal loophole, three schools -- American
University of the Caribbean in St. Maarten and Ross University
in Dominica, both owned by  DeVry Inc. (DV) , and privately owned St.
George’s University in Grenada -- received about $450 million
last year in federal  student loans , despite lacking the same
certification as U.S. medical schools. A fourth school, Saba
University School of Medicine, will soon be able to receive
federal money as well.  These schools differ from their U.S. counterparts in other
ways. Students at AUC and Ross have lower test scores, are less
likely to graduate, take longer to do so, and are less likely to
become practicing doctors if they do. Class sizes are larger --
almost 1,000 students in the first year at Ross, compared with a
U.S. average of 139. And for all that, they cost more: $56,475
for a year’s tuition at Ross, compared with median tuition and
fees of $50,309 at U.S. schools.  That’s not just a problem for people who attend them. These
schools also pay U.S. teaching hospitals to get their students
clinical training slots, which are necessary to complete medical
school. That takes spots away from students at U.S. schools. If
less-qualified students are able to buy their way into teaching
hospitals, it raises the danger that patients will get lower-quality care.  And if those same students aren’t able to become licensed
doctors, they’re at greater risk of defaulting on their loans,
leaving taxpayers on the hook.  At first glance, the counter to these arguments may seem to
be the Affordable Care Act. The law will lead to an estimated 25
million more Americans getting health insurance by 2016,
increasing the demand for doctors. Coupled with the pressures of
an aging population, there’s a clear public interest in training
more physicians.  But U.S. medical schools are already doing just that. In
2006, the  Association of American Medical Colleges  set out to
increase enrollment by 30 percent by 2017. They say they’re on
track to meet that goal, with more than a dozen new schools.  That leaves little reason not to impose higher standards on
offshore for-profit medical schools, even if it means they
produce fewer doctors. Congress should also consider preventing
for-profit schools without U.S. accreditation from getting U.S.
federal loans, as Senator  Dick Durbin , an Illinois Democrat,
suggests.  Many of the students who attend overseas for-profit medical
school will go on to become excellent doctors, so in making any
changes policy makers should weigh those students’ ability to
get an education. That may mean greater funding for U.S.
teaching hospitals’ residency programs, which could help replace
the revenue they now get from overseas schools and encourage
U.S. medical schools to expand enrollment further. What doesn’t
make sense is to continue providing federal money for subpar
results.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 