-- Eagles Win in Chip Kelly’s NFL Debut as Texans Overcome Chargers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-10T06:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/eagles-beat-redskins-33-27-in-chip-kelly-s-debut-as-nfl-coach.html
The  Philadelphia Eagles  held on for
a 33-27 win over the  Washington Redskins  in Chip Kelly’s
National Football League coaching debut, and the  Houston Texans 
erased a 21-point deficit in a 31-28 victory over the  San Diego
Chargers  to cap the opening week of the regular season.  Michael Vick  threw two touchdown passes and also rushed for
a score for the Eagles, who took a 33-7 lead last night at FedEx
Field in Landover,  Maryland , and held on for the win.  Kelly replaced  Andy Reid  as the Eagles’ coach during the
offseason after leading the University of Oregon to four
straight Bowl Championship Series games with a fast-paced
offense that averaged 44.7 points during his tenure. The Eagles
ran 53 plays during the first half last night -- the most in the
NFL since 1991 -- and finished with 77.  “I had a lot of fun tonight and I think our guys had a lot
of fun, but you’re always going to say that when you win,”
Kelly said at a news conference. “It’s a big victory because
it’s in the division, but it’s just one victory. We’ve got a
short week and we’ve got to get back to work.”  The Texans then erased a 28-7 second-half deficit in  San
Diego , where the visitors won on a 41-yard field goal by Randy
Bullock as time expired.  Matt Schaub  threw two of his three
touchdown passes in the second half for Houston and linebacker
Brian Cushing returned an interception 18 yards for the tying
score with nine minutes, 38 seconds left.  “In the second half we found a way,” Texans defensive end
J.J. Watt said in a televised interview. “Even though it looked
like all the odds were against us, nobody got down, nobody got
worried, we all just fought.”  Bizarre Half  The Eagles raced out to a 26-7 halftime lead after what
Kelly said was a “bizarre” first half.  Philadelphia outgained the Redskins 322-75 in total yardage
and 21-3 in first downs over the first 30 minutes, while
 Washington ’s first touchdown came after an incomplete backward
pass by Vick that was ruled a fumble.  Vick, who said he’d lost confidence following a 2012 season
in which he went 3-7 as a starter and suffered a concussion,
completed 15-of-25 passes for 203 yards while rushing for 54
yards on nine carries. Eagles running back  LeSean McCoy  rushed
for 184 yards and a touchdown on 31 carries.  In addition to a field goal and safety in the first half,
Vick threw a 25-yard touchdown pass to  DeSean Jackson , a 28-yarder to Brent Celek and also added a 3-yard touchdown run.
McCoy weaved through the Redskins defense for a 34-yard
touchdown run on the Eagles’ first drive of the third quarter,
putting the visitors ahead 33-7.  Redskins’ Rally  The Redskins then rallied behind quarterback Robert Griffin III, who missed the preseason while recovering from January knee
surgery. Albert Morris ran for a 5-yard touchdown with 11
seconds left in the third quarter and the Redskins got within
33-27 as Griffin threw two fourth-quarter touchdown passes to
Leonard Hankerson.  The second came with just over a minute remaining and the
Eagles recovered the ensuing onsides kick to seal the victory.  Griffin completed 30 of 49 passes for 329 yards, two
touchdowns and two interceptions. He also rushed for 24 yards.  The Chargers scored a touchdown 15 seconds into last
night’s game and opened a 21-point advantage behind four scoring
passes from quarterback  Philip Rivers .  The Texans, who entered the season as the sixth Super Bowl
favorite among oddsmakers, then rallied behind Schaub, who threw
a 7-yard touchdown pass to Garrett Graham in the third quarter
and a 9-yard scoring strike to Owen Daniels 16 seconds into the
final quarter.  Cushing made a diving interception of Rivers midway through
the fourth quarter and then got to his feet and raced to the end
zone for the tying score. Schaub, who had 346 yards passing,
connected on all four of his pass attempts on the Texans’ final
drive to set up Bullock’s winning kick.  Houston held a 449-263 advantage in total yards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  