-- EasyJet Chased by Network Carriers Squeezed by Budget Travel
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-09-10T15:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/easyjet-chased-by-network-carriers-squeezed-by-budget-travel-1-.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  said it’s ready to take
on a low-cost challenge from Europe’s former flag carriers,
predicting they’ll struggle to embrace the no-frills approach
that’s lured travelers to discount operators.  A potential 86 million short-haul passengers flying from
Europe’s top 20 airports each year could be surrendered to
EasyJet by network carriers because they don’t feed lucrative
long-haul services, Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall said
in an interview, predicting that airlines including  Air France (AF) 
may be left with as few as 21 million transfer customers.  EasyJet is attracting corporate fliers with allocated
seating, flexible tickets and higher frequencies. While the
approach differs from  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ’s ultra low-cost
service that often depends on small and regional airports, both
agree in their prediction that efforts by established airlines
to maintain their intra-European routes are ultimately doomed.  “There are some clear winners in European short-haul,”
McCall said at Bloomberg’s European headquarters in  London . “I
don’t see why any legacy carrier would want to continue losing
money on short-haul when it can be done better by other
carriers, except to feed their long-haul.”  Making Cuts  EasyJet has sought to capture more corporate connections,
winning a bid to fly between Rome Fiumicino and Milan Linate
airports in October to break into a market dominated by Alitalia
SpA. The airline also trumped Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. to be
one of two U.K. carriers linking London and Moscow, a service
McCall said is being well received by customers.  Ryanair said Sept. 4 that it may miss its profit target
this year after a heat wave prompted people to holiday at home
and increased competition depressed ticket prices, in a surprise
announcement that caught investors off guard and weighed on the
shares of European airlines. McCall said her own company is “on
track” and that forward bookings are “fine.”  EasyJet advanced 7.2 percent to 1,358 pence in London, the
biggest gain since May 15. The stock has risen 77 percent this
year, the third-best performer on the 32-company Bloomberg World
Airlines Index.  Cuts at network airlines helped lure 10 million business
travelers to EasyJet in 2012, and rivals pared capacity on
overlapping routes by 500,000 seats in the third quarter. McCall
said she expects competition to intensify over the next five
years as European airlines fight to keep market share.  Aviation Novice  The purchase of Spanish discounter Vueling Airlines SA by
British Airways-parent  IAG SA (IAG)  and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s plan
to rebuild domestic flights around its low-cost Germanwings unit
are signs that rivals are learning from EasyJet, McCall said.
Air France is also responding with a discount subsidiary called
Hop as the carriers seek to slash short-haul losses.  “Our main competitive set is legacy carriers who are
inefficient, have very high cost bases, very grand buildings,
are not used to working in a lean environment and are not used
to negotiating with airports on paying for what they use rather
than the whole airport experience,” McCall said. “It is very
difficult to think like EasyJet every day of the week.”  McCall took over in July 2010, having joined as an aviation
novice from Guardian Media Group Plc. She runs EasyJet out of a
large orange hangar at the Luton headquarters on the outskirts
of London, an industrial building that remains true to the
airline’s frugal approach to doing business.  Shareholder Spat  From two planes in 1995, EasyJet has grown to more than 200
Airbus SAS aircraft carrying more than 59 million people
annually, 20 million fewer than Ryanair. McCall said her airline
competes directly with its Dublin-based rival on just 5 percent
of EasyJet’s 637 routes, with Ryanair focusing on secondary or
tertiary airports.  EasyJet shareholders in July approved an order for 135
Airbus A320 single-aisle jets valued at $13 billion, cementing
McCall’s strategy and putting the carrier on track to grow seat
capacity by between 3 and 5 percent annually.  “It’s modest, it’s cautious,” McCall said of the capacity
target, adding that the flexibility of the arrangement was one
of the deciding factors in favor of selecting Airbus over  Boeing
Co. (BA)  airliners. Under the terms of the deal, EasyJet can expand
its fleet to 298 jets by 2022 or shrink it to 165.  Under McCall, EasyJet has moved away from the pure discount
focus of its founder and No. 1 shareholder,  Stelios Haji-Ioannou . The entrepreneur has been a vocal critic of EasyJet
management and the fleet purchase, trimming his stake to 36
percent this year in protest.  McCall’s Strategy  “He’s had a very clear view for a very long time, which is
‘Don’t buy any more planes because you should give money back to
shareholders,’” McCall said of Stelios, who goes by his first
name. “Our position is ‘You’ve got to invest in the airline to
sustain it.’”  Confidence in McCall’s strategy has lifted the shares,
valuing EasyJet at 5.38 billion pounds ($8.5 billion). The
airline entered the FTSE 100 Index in March, joining the U.K.’s
flagship carrier British Airways on the country’s benchmark.
Ryanair,  Europe ’s largest discount carrier, has gained 33
percent this year and is valued at 8.92 billion euros ($11.8
billion).  The austerity measures gripping large parts of western
Europe have actually helped EasyJet because its low-cost model
attracts people who are not willing to sacrifice a holiday, said
the CEO, who turns 52 on Sept. 13.  “We do well in good times, but we do proportionally better
when things are tough,” she said. “The massive difference in
the last 10 years is that people can go on a family holiday for
a week for less than the price of a coffee a day. You put aside
a very small amount of money and you can go to a beach,
easily.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  