-- ECB’s Asmussen Says Minutes Should Disclose Who Voted for What
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-09-10T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/ecb-s-asmussen-says-minutes-should-disclose-who-voted-for-what.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said the publication of a record of
Governing Council meetings should reveal each member’s position
in the debate.  “In my personal view, the minutes summarizing the main
policy discussions should include who voted for what and the
reasoning behind that vote,” Asmussen said at an event in
Brussels today. “Publishing the minutes in such a way will
sharpen our mandate, because the ECB will then have to explain
why its decisions are in line with its European mandate.”  Asmussen’s comments contrast with the line taken by
President  Mario Draghi , who said on Sept. 5 that more
transparency at the Frankfurt-based ECB shouldn’t compromise
members’ independence. Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said
last month that while he’s in favor of publishing minutes, the
central bank may decide not to deliver a verbatim account.  “One should not overestimate the risk that pressure is
exercised of members of the Governing Council, especially
governors of national central banks,” Asmussen said. “In my
view, someone who takes up such a position should be able to
withstand such pressure.”  Exit Strategy  The introduction in July of the ECB’s expectations for
 interest rates  based on the outlook for growth and inflation has
reduced volatility in market borrowing costs, Asmussen said. At
the same time, the ECB has been only “moderately successful”
in curbing “overreactions” in rates to economic data.  “It is still early days and it remains to be seen how this
evolves in an environment of improving economic data and a
generalized increase in global long-term rates,” he said.  Market rates have risen in recent months after the  Federal
Reserve  in  Washington  signaled it will start reducing monetary
stimulus from the  U.S. economy . Asmussen said it is still too
early for the euro area to start withdrawing its own stimulus,
and that the variety of unconventional tools used during the
crisis makes communicating an eventual exit more complex.  “Excess liquidity is sterilized with reverse operations,”
Asmussen said. “Banks can pay back long-term loans before
maturity as market conditions normalize. At the same time, the
ECB remains ready to act if conditions deteriorate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  