-- Ecopetrol Said to Join Pemex Selling Bonds as Issuance Jumps
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-09-10T19:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/ecopetrol-said-to-join-pemex-selling-bonds-as-issuance-jumps-1-.html
State-controlled oil producers
 Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  and Petroleos Mexicanos are selling at least $2.9
billion of bonds to international investors as emerging-market
debt issuance rebounds from an August lull.  Colombia ’s Ecopetrol will sell $2.5 billion of dollar bonds
due in five, 10 and 30 years, according to a person familiar
with the offering who asked not to be identified because terms
aren’t set. Pemex, as  Mexico ’s oil company is known, plans a
sale of $400 million of debt due in 2024, guaranteed by the
Export-Import Bank of the U.S., another person said.  Emerging-market issuers have sold $15.1 billion of debt in
international markets in the first 10 days of September, or 77
percent of what they sold during the entire month of August,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The tally doesn’t
include the Ecopetrol or Pemex bonds.  “Both names have ready access to the new issue market
given their name and issuance history, so were able to react
when the market turned receptive to new issues,”  Michael Roche ,
an emerging-market strategist at broker-dealer Seaport Group
LLC, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Ecopetrol’s $350 million of five-year bonds may yield 260
basis points, or 2.6 percentage points, above U.S. Treasuries,
while the $1.3 billion of 10-year notes may yield 305 basis
points more than Treasuries, the person said. The $850 million
of 30-year notes may carry a spread of 350 basis points. Bank of
America Corp. and Morgan Stanley are helping to manage the sale.  Pemex’s notes will yield 68 basis points over a reference
known as the midswaps rate, one of the people said. BNP Paribas
SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are managing the transaction.  Ecopetrol, which is 88.5 percent owned by the Colombian
government, had refrained from seeking overseas debt financing
this year as Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said that
borrowing dollars and converting them into pesos would undercut
the government’s effort to weaken the currency. Cardenas sits on
the company’s nine-member board as one of three government
representatives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  