-- Hedge Funds Lease More Space in London’s West End as Rents Climb
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-09-10T13:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/hedge-funds-lease-more-space-in-london-s-west-end-as-rents-climb.html
Hedge funds  agreed to lease out
more than twice as much  office space  in London’s  West End  this
year as in the whole of 2012 as firms including BlueBay Asset
Management LLP and Elliot Management Corp. expanded, U.S.
property broker  Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  said.  Hedge funds added 58,000 square feet (5,390 square meters)
of space in the district, up from 25,000 square feet last year,
Cushman & Wakefield said in a statement today. The amount of new
space leased by private-equity firms was little changed at
45,000 square feet.  BlueBay, Highbridge Capital Management LLC and Elliot
Management, which oversee a combined $100 billion of assets, are
among money managers that have spurred the surge in leasing,
 Cushman & Wakefield  said. Such firms are getting bigger as
cautious investors seek stability in established money managers.
Meanwhile, smaller hedges are struggling to raise money and face
higher compliance costs.  “There are not a lot of startups that are taking space
today and that is a big change from six or seven years ago,”
said Henry Peto, a Cushman & Wakefield partner in London. “We
are seeing a consolidation of the industry with investors
attracted to the more mature and larger hedge funds who’ve been
driving the space take up in the West End.”  Hedge funds accounted for 31 percent of the office space
leased in the Mayfair and St. James’s neighborhoods this year,
Cushman & Wakefield said. Private-equity firms leased about 24
percent of the space.  The rents paid by some firms may have risen to levels that
are close to the peak of the last U.K. office-property boom in
2007 because of the competition for space, Cushman & Wakefield
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  