-- Emerging Stocks Rise on China Data as Syria Concern Eases
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-09-10T21:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/emerging-stocks-rise-on-oil-as-china-h-shares-climb-20-from-low.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced to
a three-month high as China’s industrial production data beat
estimates and concern over a U.S.-led strike in Syria eased.
 India ’s rupee capped the biggest four-day gain since 1973.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 1.8 percent to
991.36. The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund capped the longest rally since  2004. (EEM)  Benchmark equity
gauges from India to  Turkey (XU100)  and South Africa rose at least 1.8
percent, while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index entered a
 bull market . Dubai’s DFM General Index posted the biggest
increase among world stock measures. The rupee led gains among
the 24 developing-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Stocks in emerging markets advanced for a fifth straight
day after data showed China’s industrial output grew at the
fastest pace in 17 months in August and the broadest measure of
new credit almost doubled from July. West Texas Intermediate
crude tumbled as  Syria  agreed to a Russian plan to surrender its
chemical weapons, easing concern of a U.S. strike.  “A real hard landing, a real crisis in China is not in the
cards, at least not in the near term,” Derrick Irwin, a
portfolio manager of the Wells Fargo Advantage Emerging Markets
Equity Fund, said in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in
New York. His firm manages $223.8 billion. “When you see data
like this, you get less worried.”  All 10  groups  in the measure of developing-nation stocks
rose today as health-care and financial shares had the biggest
gains. The rally trimmed this year’s loss in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index’s to 6.1 percent, compared with a 14 percent
increase in the MSCI World Index. The emerging-market gauge
 trades  at 10.6 times projected earnings, trailing the 13.9
valuation of the MSCI World, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Emerging ETF  The developing-nation ETF advanced 0.8 percent to $41.35,
rising for a ninth consecutive day. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 1.5 percent to 25.89.  Brazil’s Ibovespa fell for the first time in five days as
data showing a measure of Brazilian inflation accelerated faster
than forecast spurred bets policy makers will step up interest-rate increases. The real snapped three days of gains.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose for a seventh day in the longest
winning streak since April 2010 as metal producers surged. OAO
Mechel, Russia’s largest producer of coal for steelmakers,
climbed 6.1 percent. OAO Rosneft, the nation’s largest oil
producer, fell 1.6 percent.  Crude Oil  Oil futures fell 1.9 percent as  France  said it will submit
a proposal to the United Nations to confiscate Syria’s chemical
weapons. Bashar al-Assad’s government accepted the Russian plan.
President  Barack Obama  told NBC News the motion is a
“potentially positive development.” He will outline his
intentions during speech at 9 p.m. in  Washington .  Benchmark gauges in  Turkey ,  Poland  and the Czech Republic
added more than 2 percent, while stocks in  Hungary  rebounded
from a four-day plunge. The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index
rallied to a  record high . Dubai’s DFM General Index climbed 8.5
percent, the biggest gain among 94 gauges monitored by Bloomberg
globally. Egypt’s EGX 30 Index surged 3.1 percent.  China’s stocks rose, with trading volumes on the benchmark
index jumping to the highest levels since  October 2010. (SHCOMP)  The
Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.2 percent, the highest since
June 6. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index surged 21 percent
from a June 25 low. Citic Securities Co., the nation’s biggest-listed brokerage, posted its biggest two-day gain in five years.  Trading Resumed  The S&P BSE Sensex rose 3.8 percent in Mumbai, the biggest
gain since 2009, as trading resumed after a holiday.  Bharti
Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  jumped the most in three years after the regulator
yesterday suggested cutting prices for auctioning airwaves. The
rupee, which touched an all-time low of 68.845 on Aug. 28,
advanced 6.1 percent in the four trading days through today, the
biggest gain in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1973.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  capped the biggest rally since
2011, while the Philippine Stock Exchange Index jumped 1.6
percent. Stocks in Thailand and  Malaysia  also gained.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 342 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  