-- Merkel Slams Steinbrueck on Taxes, Debt Sharing as Vote Looms
-- B y   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-09-10T16:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/merkel-slams-steinbrueck-on-taxes-debt-sharing-as-vote-looms.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  slammed
the opposition’s campaign platform as bad for Germany, as she
sought to close down her main challenger  Peer Steinbrueck ’s
chances of entering government after the federal election.  Merkel used a rally in southwestern Germany today to
criticize Steinbrueck’s Social Democrats and their Green party
allies over their plans to raise taxes and introduce a form of
debt sharing across the 17-nation euro area. Without mentioning
Steinbrueck by name, she portrayed his party as running on a
platform of gambling away Germany’s future in the Sept. 22 vote.  “Whatever is redistributed must first be earned,” Merkel
told the crowd in Rust, in Baden-Wuerttemberg state. “We have
to stop living at the expense of the future.”  Merkel is stepping up her criticism of the opposition as
she navigates the final stages of the campaign to determine who
leads Europe’s biggest economy. With polls showing her lead over
Steinbrueck’s party holding and her within grasp of a repeat of
her current coalition with the Free Democrats, Germany’s first
woman chancellor is pressing her advantage to win a third term.  “The election trend is still pretty cemented,”  Jan Techau , director of the Brussels office of the Carnegie
Endowment, said in an interview. “There may be movement in the
margins but at this point it’s too late for the SPD to recover
and form a government with the Greens.”  Merkel said a plan by the SPD and Greens to raise taxes was
like “throwing a stick between the legs” of business leaders
which would trigger slumping economic activity and falling tax
revenue. “There will be no tax rises with us,” she said.  Support Drops  Support for Merkel’s CDU and its Christian Social Union
Bavarian sister party dropped a point to 40 percent and her pro-market FDP coalition partner also fell one point to 5 percent in
a  GMS poll  published today.  Steinbrueck’s SPD remained unchanged at 25 percent. The
Greens party dropped one point to 11 percent and the Left Party
gained a point to 9 percent support, according to the GMS poll.  This result, if repeated on Election Day, would mean
Merkel’s CDU/CSU-FDP coalition would fall just short of a
Bundestag majority with 45 percent. The opposition SPD, Greens
and Left Party would also have 45 percent.  GMS surveyed 1,007 people Sept. 4-9. No margin of error was
given. German voters cast ballots for members of parliament and
parties and don’t directly elect the chancellor.  In a separate  Emnid poll for Bild am Sonntag  newspaper,
Merkel’s popularity dropped two points as Steinbrueck’s
increased seven points. Fifty percent of those polled said they
want Merkel as chancellor compared with 35 percent who favored
Steinbrueck, according to the Sept. 8 survey.  Left Warning  Merkel’s CDU is warning that the SPD and Greens may break a
pledge not to ally with the anti-capitalist Left Party, the
successor to former East  Germany ’s communists that wants to
nationalize all big banks, ban hedge funds and raise taxes.  SPD and Greens leaders have vowed not to form any alliance
with the Left Party at the national level. The SPD currently
rules with the Left in the eastern state of Brandenburg and the
state’s CDU leader said he thinks the SPD may break its promise
after Election Day.  Steinbrueck, Merkel’s first-term finance minister, says the
chancellor failed to address the rich-poor gap as the economy
rebounded. He says an SPD-led government would introduce a flat-rate minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.25), enforce equal pay for
men and women as well as for temporary workers and permanent
staff, cap rent increases, raise taxes for higher earners and
put a brake on electricity prices.  Merkel is campaigning on her record of tackling the debt
crisis as well as her stewardship of the Germany economy, with
joblessness near a two-decade low and the budget balanced. She
says that SPD and Greens plans to raise taxes on the wealthier
would harm the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arne Delfs in Rust, Germany, at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  