-- Tesco to Sell Fresh & Easy to Burkle’s Yucaipa in U.S. Exit
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-09-10T19:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/tesco-to-sell-fresh-easy-to-burkle-s-yucaipa-in-u-s-exit.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  agreed to sell most of
its Fresh & Easy chain to billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa
investment company, allowing the U.K. grocer to exit the U.S.
after a failed six-year foray into the world’s biggest economy.  Yucaipa will acquire more than 150 of Fresh & Easy’s near
200 stores as well as distribution and production facilities,
Cheshunt, England-based Tesco said today. Those outlets not
included in the transaction will be closed in the coming weeks.  Fresh & Easy has never made a profit since it was built
from scratch in 2007. Tesco has invested about 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion) in the business in that period. Many analysts saw
it as a drag on resources at a time when Tesco is struggling to
maintain its dominant share of the U.K. grocery market.  “Most people will just be relieved that the ongoing stream
of losses from the U.S. will be over and the uncertainty is no
longer hanging over us,” Richard Marwood, who helps oversee
more than $700 billion at Axa Investment Managers in  London ,
said today before the deal was announced.  Fresh & Easy,  with shops in Nevada,  California  and  Arizona ,
made a trading loss of 169 million pounds last year, compared
with a deficit of 153 million pounds the previous year.  The chain distinguishes itself with a focus on budget-priced, healthy food and a predominance of own-brand items.  The total cash outflow relating to stores being closed
should be no more than 150 million pounds, Tesco said today.  No Exposure  That includes an 80 million-pound loan from Tesco to a new
company formed by Yucaipa, which is secured against Fresh &
Easy’s distribution center in Riverside, California.  Separately, the U.K. grocer said it will receive warrants
that can be exchanged for as much as 32.5 percent of the equity
in the new company, YFE Holdings Inc.  Tesco will have “no ongoing financial exposure” after
completion of the sale, which it expects within three months.
More than 4,000 employees will transfer to the new owner.  “It’s a clean exit, with the majority of the business
going to one acquirer and the purchaser having no recourse to
Tesco and there being no lingering lease liabilities,” James
Collins, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a note.  The sale to Yucaipa “represents the best outcome for Tesco
shareholders and Fresh & Easy’s stakeholders,” Tesco Chief
Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  said in a statement. “It offers
us an orderly and efficient exit from the U.S. market.”  ‘More Relevant’  Yucaipa expects to complete the purchase within three
months, the Los Angeles-based company said today in a statement.
“In the meantime, it is business as usual for most Fresh & Easy
stores.”  The purchase will “give us a solid starting point to
complete Tesco’s vision with some changes that we think will
make it even more relevant to today’s consumer,” Burkle said in
the statement.  Bloomberg reported June 12 that Burkle planned to buy Fresh
& Easy and convert the stores to the Wild Oats brand. Frank Quintero, a Yucaipa spokesman, wasn’t immediately available to
comment.  Burkle has sought investments and stakes in troubled
companies, including a partnership to take over  Barneys New York 
last year. He was also interested in buying part of grocery
chain  Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , people familiar with the matter have said.
 Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based Supervalu sold some of its
banners, including Jewel-Osco and Acme, to a Cerberus Capital
Management LP-led team in March.  Same-store  sales  fell in eight out of Tesco’s 10
international businesses in the first quarter of the current
financial year and international earnings slumped 22 percent to
990 million pounds in the 12 months through February.  Tesco exited  Japan  last year and said Aug. 9 it plans to
merge its 131 stores in  China  with the country’s second-biggest
hypermarket chain, ending nearly a decade of independent
operations in the country as sales decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in Frankfurt at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  