-- Tesco Said Close to Agreement With Burkle’s Yucaipa on U.S. Exit
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-09-10T15:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/tesco-said-close-to-agreement-with-burkle-s-yucaipa-on-u-s-exit.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  is close to reaching an
agreement with billionaire Ron Burkle’s Yucaipa investment
company that will allow the U.K.’s largest grocer to exit the
U.S. after a failed six-year foray into the world’s biggest
economy, according to a person familiar with the matter.  An agreement may be announced as early as today, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the transaction
has not yet been made public.  Frank Quintero, a Yucaipa spokesman, and Tesco spokesman
Tom Hoskinweren’t immediately available for comment.  The near 200-store Fresh & Easy chain has never made a
profit since it was built from scratch in 2007. Tesco has
invested about 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) in the business
in that period. Many analysts saw it as a drag on resources at a
time when Cheshunt, England-based Tesco is struggling to
maintain its dominant share of the U.K. grocery market.  Same-store sales fell in eight out of Tesco’s 10
international businesses in the first quarter of the current
financial year and international earnings slumped 22 percent to
990 million pounds in the 12 months through February.  Tesco exited  Japan  last year and said Aug. 9 it plans to
merge its 131 stores in  China  with the country’s second-biggest
hypermarket chain, ending nearly a decade of independent
operations in the country as sales decline.  Fresh & Easy, with shops in Nevada, California and  Arizona ,
made a trading loss of 169 million pounds last year, compared
with a deficit of 153 million pounds the previous year.  The chain distinguishes itself with a focus on budget-priced, healthy food and a predominance of own-brand items.  “It was a discount store and it had high costs and it just
proved too difficult to shift people from their traditional
buying habits in big supercentres and supermarkets into a small
store,” Tesco Chief Executive Officer Philip Clarke said in
December, when the grocer first disclosed plans to exit the U.S.  Bloomberg News reported on June 12 that Yucaipa was in
talks to buy Fresh & Easy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  