-- Tesla Model S Buyback Offer May Generate More Revenue
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-09-10T20:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/tesla-s-model-s-buyback-offer-builds-in-used-car-revenue-boost.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s gamble to buy
back Model S electric cars from customers using its lease-style
option has potential to generate further revenue when the
automaker sells used cars, according to Bloomberg Industries.  The plan gives Tesla, which sells electric sedans
exclusively through its own stores, more control over used
vehicle resale prices than traditional automakers, said  Kevin Tynan , a Bloomberg Industries analyst. Used Model S sales may
generate as much as $368 million in annual revenue in 2016, or
an additional $40 million in annual gross profit, based on
Tynan’s analysis.  “Buying back three-year-old cars at a set price means
Tesla to a great extent can control the secondary market for
Model S and other cars it brings out,” Tynan said in an
interview. “The company’s going to be the main buyer and gets a
chance to earn a second gross profit on the same car.” Tynan
estimates Tesla is offering 46 percent of the Model S’s original
price.  Tesla’s unconventional finance plan -- initially criticized
for overstating customer savings -- is in keeping with Chief
Executive Officer  Elon Musk ’s avoidance of traditional industry
practices. All aspects of Tesla assembly operations are
integrated at its California plant and the company makes Model S
enhancements with wireless software updates.  The finance plan, announced in April and backed by  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and U.S. Bancorp, guarantees a resale value for
Model S “equal to 50 percent of the base purchase price” of
the entry-level car, currently about $70,000, and “43 percent
of the original purchase price for all options” after 36
months, according to a Tesla agreement obtained by Bloomberg
Industries.  ‘Biggest Unknown’  Owners can opt to keep their cars, with loans running as
long as six years, Tesla said in a May revision to the plan.  The Bloomberg Industries estimate is based on the company
reselling as many as 10,000 used cars in 2016, at an average
resale price of $36,763.  While  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla expects revenue
from used Model S sales, it can’t forecast the amount, said Jeff Evanson, the company’s head of  investor relations . “The biggest
unknown right now is how many cars will come back,” he said,
declining to confirm the Bloomberg Industries estimate.  Under a traditional lease plan, after three years customers
return a vehicle to a dealer, who either resells it to another
individual or through vehicle auction services. Tesla’s plan to
handle all such sales directly is enviable, said Ed Kim, senior
industry analyst for AutoPacific Inc.  ‘A Dream’  “To be able to control that process in-house would be a
dream for most automakers,” Kim said in an interview. “It
means there are no dealers to negotiate with or dealing with
auctions. You set the terms and control the experience.”  Direct repurchases of vehicles by a carmaker’s dealers or
finance company are desirable to ensure the best vehicles are
the ones going into certified pre-owned programs, said Bill Fay,
group vice president for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s U.S. sales unit.  With Tesla, “it will be interesting to see how they do
it,” Fay said in an interview. “Obviously, it will give them a
lower price point.” The company’s lack of a dealer network and
in-house finance unit creates some challenges, Fay said.  “There’s going to be some growing pains there to figure
all of that out,” he said.  Musk vowed to use his personal fortune to ensure Model S
resale prices. An almost fivefold surge in Tesla stock this year
has boosted his net worth to about $8 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Tesla rose 3.5 percent to $166.37
at the close in  New York , the biggest gain in more than two
weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  