-- Esprit Posts First Annual Loss Since IPO as Sales Slump
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-09-10T09:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/esprit-posts-first-annual-loss-since-listing.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the apparel
seller whose two top executives quit last year, reported its
first annual loss since a 1993 listing as sales dropped and it
shut some stores. The stock plunged.  The company reported a loss of HK$4.39 billion ($566
million) for the year ended June, wider than the average HK$3.4
billion loss projected by 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Hong Kong-based company, which is pushing to curb
costs, will return to profitability by the end of the current
fiscal year ending June 2014, Chief Executive Officer Jose Manuel Martinez Gutierrez told reporters in Hong Kong. Esprit,
which gets more than 78 percent of its sales from Europe, has
seen sales slump in the region and battled competition globally
from rivals including  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara.  “It’s hard for the company to turn around its operations
once the brand has lost its appeal,” said Francis Lun, Hong-Kong based managing director at Lyncean Securities Ltd.  The stock closed 7.2 percent lower at HK$11.66, the biggest
decline since October 2012. It had risen as much as 5.6 percent
ahead of the earnings report.  Scaling Back  Esprit today forecast “slight” declines in revenue and
gross profit margins for the current fiscal year. It may raise
funds by issuing debt, Martinez said. The company will expand
selectively until sales improve, Chief Financial Officer Thomas
Tang said.  “Esprit is cutting costs on marketing, scaling back on
expansion to buy time for reviving sales,” said Barclays
Capital analyst Vineet Sharma. “Whether they will be successful
or not, we don’t know. But they put priority on stopping the
company from bleeding.”  Annual sales fell 14 percent, with  Europe  dropping 11
percent, the company said today. Results were also hurt partly
by a goodwill impairment of about HK$2 billion related to China
investments.  In the short term, the company doesn’t foresee “a visible
improvement of the top line,” it said. The weak macroeconomic
environment will remain a pressure and the measures being taken
to revive results are still a work-in-progress, it said.  The brand aims to improve its business and distribution by
cutting money-losing retail stores, unproductive product lines,
unprofitable wholesale business and exiting countries where it’s
incurring losses, CEO Martinez said in May.  Esprit lost two executives in 48 hours in June last year.
Former Chairman Hans Joachim Koerber resigned a day after then-Chief Executive Officer Ronald Van der Vis quit. The departures
fueled doubt over the company’s ability to see its
transformation plan through. Van der Vis was replaced by
Martinez,  a former Inditex manager.  In February, Esprit posted a first-half loss of HK$465
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  