-- EU Lawyers Clash Over Legality of 11-Nation Transaction-Tax Plan
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-09-10T11:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/eu-lawyers-clash-over-legality-of-11-nation-transaction-tax-plan.html
European Union lawyers are clashing
over whether a proposed 11-nation financial-transaction tax is
legal under the 28-nation bloc’s governing treaties.  Lawyers for the Council of the European Union, which
represents the executives of EU  member states , say the tax plan
goes too far and would discriminate against countries that don’t
participate, according to an EU document. The legal service of
the European Commission, which proposed the levy, stands by the
plan and will offer a rebuttal, said Emer Traynor, a spokeswoman
for EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta.  “We strongly disagree” that the tax plan overreaches,
Traynor said by telephone in Brussels today. “We did our own
very thorough legal analysis before presenting the proposal.”  The EU has proposed a broad-based tax on stocks, bonds,
derivatives and other trades that could be collected worldwide
by  France ,  Germany  and nine other EU nations that have so far
signed up. The plan would charge a 0.1 percent rate for stock
and bond trades and 0.01 percent for derivatives transactions,
with some exemptions for primary-market sales and trades with
the ECB.  The feud centers on proposals for worldwide tax collection
on trades involving a bank or financial security based in one of
the participating nations. The council’s Sept. 6 legal opinion
said the EU can’t justify such an aggressive approach just to
keep traders from moving outside the zone of participating
nations.  ‘Tax Evasion’  “It cannot reasonably be argued that there is an
overwhelming necessity to make financial institutions
established outside the FTT jurisdiction liable for FTT on their
transactions with counterparties resident or otherwise
established in that jurisdiction in order to fight fraud or tax
evasion,” according to the council opinion.  The council makes EU laws in tandem with the European
Parliament. In most cases, the council can only legislate based
on proposals made by the Brussels-based commission, the EU’s
executive arm, according to the bloc’s  website .  The commission’s plan exceeds the jurisdiction of
participating nations, infringes on the taxing powers of non-participating nations and “is discriminatory and likely to lead
to distortion of competition to the detriment of non-participating member states,” the council opinion said. It said
Semeta’s plan doesn’t address problems of double taxation that
result from the way the tax would be collected.  The council’s legal opinion is on separate grounds to a
challenge by the U.K., which questions the procedures used to
plan the tax. The council legal opinion was reported earlier
today by Reuters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  