-- EU Weighs Scrapping ESMA Oversight of Libor in Benchmark Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-10T09:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/eu-weighs-scrapping-esma-oversight-of-libor-in-benchmark-rules.html
U.K. regulators would retain a role
in the oversight of the London interbank offered rate as the
European Union considers backing away from a plan to shift
supervision of the tarnished benchmark to an EU agency in Paris.  The European Commission may rewrite draft proposals
scheduled to be presented later this month, that would have
handed oversight of critical benchmarks including Libor to the
Paris-based European Securities and Markets Authority, according
to an EU official, who requested anonymity because the talks are
private.  Under the alternative plan being considered, the rates
would be overseen by a group, or college, of national regulators
including the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, the official
said.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, is
scheduled to present plans on Sept. 18 for toughening benchmark-setting rules. In addition to assigning responsibility for
supervision, the plans would also hand investors a right to sue
if they lose money from shoddy rate-setting, and empower
regulators to force banks to submit data to administrators,
according to a draft of the measures obtained by Bloomberg News.  Global regulators have fined  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  about $2.5 billion for distorting
Libor and similar benchmarks. Other firms are still under
investigation around the world, and probes into potential
manipulation have extended beyond interbank lending rates.  The FCA is currently responsible for regulation of Libor
and how it is administrated. Under the alternative EU plan, ESMA
would still have a role as a dispute mediator between the
national regulators, the official said. Chris Hamilton, a
spokesman for the U.K. authority, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  