-- Lew Leans on Portman for Republican Ties in Budget Talks
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-09-10T15:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/lew-leans-on-portman-for-republican-ties-in-budget-talks.html
Republican Senator Rob Portman
doesn’t have a committee chairmanship or a leadership post. One
asset he wields in the politically divided capital is a direct
line to a prominent Democrat: Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew.  Portman was the first person -- even before President
Barack Obama -- to call Lew after the Senate confirmed him as
Treasury secretary Feb. 27, and the bipartisan pair talked six
more times during Lew’s first five months on the job. That’s
more contact than Lew had with any other Republican and with any
member of Congress except for Senate Finance Chairman Max Baucus, according to  Lew’s calendar .  The Lew-Portman relationship, built on their shared
background as White House budget directors, may be an avenue
through which lawmakers can attempt to resolve their disputes
over raising the federal debt ceiling and changing the tax code.
Portman of  Ohio  may be a Republican the administration asks to
support Obama’s nominee for Federal Reserve chairman.  “They’re private conversations where we’re trying to
figure out common ground,” Portman said in an interview at the
Capitol yesterday. “I think there’s a way for us to get through
this first stage; I’m not sure the grand bargain is there.”  The administration has made Lew its voice on the debt
ceiling and on its stance that the $16.7 trillion limit should
be raised without conditions by mid-October. Republicans insist
on attaching what House Majority Leader Eric Cantor is calling
“fiscal reforms and pro-growth policies.”  Short-Term Spending  Congress also needs to adopt a short-term spending plan
before the Sept. 30 end of the fiscal year or many government
programs will run out of funding. House Republican leaders
presented a plan to members today that would allow enactment of
a short-term spending measure while forcing a mostly symbolic
Senate vote on defunding Obama’s health-care law.  Lew and Portman, lawyers born 16 weeks apart in 1955, have
a common resume entry -- budget director. Lew ran the Office of
Management and Budget under Presidents Bill Clinton and  Barack Obama . Portman led the office in 2006 and 2007 for George W. Bush.  “They are soulmates in some way here, even though they are
from different political parties,” said Bill Hoagland, a former
Senate Republican budget aide. “Portman is a very good and
logical person for Secretary Lew to communicate with.”  On fiscal policy, Lew and Portman each reflect their
parties’ divergent priorities. The Treasury secretary favors
pairing higher taxes for top earners with gradual spending
reductions. The senator resists tax increases and advocates
slowing spending on social-insurance programs such as Medicare.  So far, neither has been able to broker a bipartisan budget
agreement. Portman’s close ties to Republican leaders won him a
seat on the 2011 deficit-reduction supercommittee. Within that
group, he attempted and failed to reach a bipartisan compromise
as that panel deadlocked.  Spending Cuts  He voted for the 2011 law that created the across-the-board
spending cuts known as sequestration and for the January 2013
deal that set in place the current top tax rates. The Obama
administration supported both laws.  Lew, who was White House chief of staff before going to
Treasury, was a leading administration negotiator in several
rounds of failed budget talks in 2011 and 2012.  Portman, 57, and Lew, 58, each left government only to
return later. Lew was an executive at  New York  University and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  before joining the Obama administration. Portman
worked at a law firm in Cincinnati before running for Senate in
2010; he is up for re-election in 2016.  The Treasury Department posted Lew’s calendar on the
Internet Aug. 29. It’s partially redacted.  A Treasury official who wasn’t authorized to talk publicly
about the pair’s conversations said Lew and Portman talk from
time to time about the budget, taxes and financial regulations.  Budget Committee  Once Lew was sworn in Feb. 28, they didn’t talk until April
16, the day Lew testified at the Senate Budget Committee.
Portman questioned him in that hearing about the tax code and
budget deficit. Lew called Portman at 8:35 p.m. that night.  The secretary spent 40 minutes with Portman in the Capitol
May 23, as Lew was shaping the administration’s response to the
controversy surrounding the Internal Revenue Service’s scrutiny
of Tea Party groups.  Lew, a former aide to the late House Speaker Tip O’Neill,
came to Capitol Hill June 10 to meet with Portman for almost two
hours in the senator’s office in the Russell building. Lew left
at 7:45 p.m. after his longest one-on-one meeting with a member
of Congress.  They spoke by phone on July 12, July 29 and July 30. The
final two conversations came as Obama was talking publicly about
a corporate tax proposal that would dedicate one-time revenue
from base broadening to infrastructure spending and not rate
reduction.  Portman ‘Discouraged’  Portman told reporters July 30 that he was “discouraged”
by the administration’s statement.  “I thought we were making some pretty good progress,
honestly, in finding a consensus about how to deal with the
business side,” he said then. Lew called him less than two
hours later.  Portman said yesterday that he continued to think there was
room for consensus, particularly on business taxation.  “I try to keep the lines of communication open,” Portman
said.  Other than Baucus and Portman, Lew didn’t talk to any other
member of Congress more than three times during the period
between his confirmation vote and July 31.  Among those who talked with Lew three times were House Ways
and Means Chairman Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican; Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat; and
Representative Mel Watt, a North Carolina Democrat who is the
administration’s pick to run the  Federal Housing Finance Agency .  ‘Understand Congress’  Lew, whose experience is in budget matters more than in
financial regulation, didn’t talk at all with Senate Banking
Committee Chairman Tim Johnson of South Dakota or with Mike Crapo, the panel’s top Republican, according to the calendar. He
also didn’t meet with House Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling of  Texas ; he talked twice with that committee’s
leading Democrat, Maxine Waters of  California .  Because of his executive-branch experience, Portman could
be a bridge between congressional Republicans and the White
House, said Russ Sullivan, who was staff director for Senate
Finance Committee Democrats until earlier this year.  “He helps Congress understand the administration and the
administration understand Congress,” said Sullivan, now a
partner at McGuireWoods LLP in  Washington .  During the confirmation process, when others were
criticizing Lew’s compensation from NYU and his Citigroup
investments based in the Cayman Islands, Portman was a supporter
and one of six Finance Committee Republicans to back his
confirmation.  Tax Rates  When questioning Lew in public Feb. 13, Portman said he saw
the potential for “consensus” on lowering U.S. tax rates and
broadening the tax base.  As past holders of what Portman jokingly called “the worst
job in Washington,” they speak the “same language,” which
doesn’t necessarily make them “natural allies,” said Stan Collender, a former congressional budget aide who is a partner
at Qorvis Communications LLC.  “It makes the conversation easier but doesn’t necessarily
make an agreement more likely,” Collender said in an e-mail.  Because both are “budget geeks,” Lew may view Portman as
an ally on some issues, said Mark Calabria, a former Senate
Republican aide who is now director of financial regulation
studies at the Cato Institute. The Washington research group is
dedicated to libertarian principles.  “Lew sees Portman as potentially somebody who would break
from the Republicans if need be,” Calabria said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  