-- Exotic Dancers Should Be Paid Minimum Wage, Judge Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-09-10T21:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/exotic-dancers-deserve-to-be-paid-minimum-wage-judge-says.html
Exotic dancers formerly employed at
 Rick’s Cabaret International Inc. (RICK)  were entitled to be paid a
minimum wage because they were employees of the club and not
independent contractors, a U.S. judge ruled.  Former strippers sued Peregrine Enterprises Inc., which
operates Rick’s New York, and two corporate parent entities, RCI
Entertainment New York and Rick’s Cabaret International Inc., in
federal court in Manhattan. The plaintiffs alleged each of the
entities were employers who failed to pay them salary, violating
federal and state labor laws. The dancers said they instead
received performance fees from customers for personal dances.  Publicly traded Rick’s Cabaret argued the dancers were
independent contractors over whom it had “minimal control” and
who aren’t covered by labor law. Rick’s Cabaret countersued for
“unjust enrichment” claiming $20 performance fees the dancers
collected from clients should be counted against any statutory
wage obligation.  U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in  New York  today ruled
the dancers were “integral” to the club’s success.  “Unlike shoe-shine employees at an airport, topless
dancers are the ‘main attraction’ at a topless nightclub and
obviously very important to the business of the nightclub,”
Engelmayer wrote.  Overpriced Beers  The judge cited the deposition of Eric Langan, chief
executive officer of Rick’s Cabaret, who said in pretrial
testimony “the most important thing to the Rick’s Cabaret brand
is that it has entertainers.”  “Without the girls, we’re just selling overpriced beers at
a sports bar with bad TVs,” Langan said in his testimony.  Engelmayer said Rick’s Cabaret exercised an “immense
degree” of control over the women by regulating almost every
aspect of their behavior within the club. The company forbade
chewing gum, a “bad attitude,” mobile phones, handbags and the
use of body glitter, the judge said. The defendants also
required eight-hour shifts and stiletto heels of at least four
inches to be worn.  The plaintiffs, who included at least 1,900 strippers, was
led by Sabrina Hart. In December 2009, a federal judge who
presided over the case before it was assigned to Engelmayer had
allowed to the case to proceed as a class-action, or group
lawsuit.  Rejected Bids  The judge said that Rick’s New York was owned and operated
by Peregrine, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of RCI
Entertainment New York. That company is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Rick’s Club International Inc., the judge said.  While he said in his ruling that the evidence favors the
claim that Peregrine was the plaintiffs’ employer, he said there
was “just enough contrary evidence” that the issue should be
decided at trial. He rejected bids by both sides for a ruling
before trial on the liability of Rick’s Club International and
RCI Entertainment New York.  Engelmayer also rejected an argument by the defendants that
the performance fees charged by Rick’s Cabaret weren’t service
charges. The judge said the fees were tips that couldn’t be used
to satisfy statutory wage obligations.  He ordered the parties to meet to confer about the
prospects of a settlement of the case.  Changed Practices  Langan said in an e-mailed statement that the ruling has no
impact upon Rick’s Cabaret because the company has changed its
practices concerning contract workers. He said the court didn’t
rule on the issue of whether the money the entertainers earned
could be considered “wages” under New York state labor law.  “We are disappointed with the ruling and intend to
appeal,” Langan said. “It is hard to imagine how these
entertainers should be paid at the  minimum wage , which would
amount to a fraction of the $1,000 or more that some of them
acknowledged they earned in a single night.”  Jeffrey Kimmel, a lawyer representing Rick’s Cabaret, said
the defendants in their appeal will ask the court to reconsider
the class-action status.  E. Michelle Drake, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in an
e-mail that “our clients have finally had their day in court
and prevailed.”  The decision “makes clear that employers cannot pass their
statutory duties to pay wages on to their customers and gain an
unfair advantage in the marketplace while their employees go
without guaranteed or long-term benefits such as  Social
Security .”  The case is Hart v. Rick’s Cabaret International, 09-cv-03043, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan at 
9245 or  pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 