-- Ezz Jumps as Egypt Mulls Punishing Turkish Steel: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   T a m i m   E l y a n
-- 2013-09-10T13:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/ezz-jumps-as-egypt-mulls-punishing-turkish-steel-cairo-mover.html
Ezz Steel,  Egypt ’s biggest
publicly-traded producer of the metal, gained the most in two
months after the government said it’s studying anti-dumping fees
on Turkish imports to protect the local industry.  Shares of the Cairo-based company climbed 4.2 percent to
11.18 Egyptian pounds at the close in the capital, the largest
advance since July 9 and bringing a rally in the past three days
to 5.8 percent. The benchmark EGX 30 Index rose 3.1 percent.  The government said it’s considering taking action against
an increase in Turkish imports at low prices, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday. The manufacturer’s shares have
surged 31 percent since the ouster of Islamist President Mohamed Mursi in July, valuing the company at 6.07 billion pounds ($880
million). That compares with a gain of about 9 percent for the
benchmark.  Curbing Turkish competition will “send prices higher, at
least temporarily,” Allen Sandeep, director of research at
Cairo-based Naeem Holding, said by phone. “There will be an
improvement in volumes” as government action may result in 10
percent undersupply in the domestic market, he said.  Ahmed Ezz, the company’s majority owner and a senior
official in former president  Hosni Mubarak ’s National Democratic
party, was acquitted in June after being charged with
monopolizing the country’s steel market. Managing Director Paul Chekaiban said in July the first quarter of the year marked a
“turning point” for the manufacturer as profit surged to 202
million pounds from 18 million a year earlier.  Seven analysts recommend investors buy Ezz shares, while
two say hold and one says sell, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Tamim Elyan in Cairo at 
 telyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  