-- FBI Director Targeted in Revised NSA Surveillance Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-09-10T19:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/fbi-director-targeted-in-revised-nsa-surveillance-lawsuit.html
FBI Director James Comey was added
as a defendant in a lawsuit alleging that the National Security
Agency’s “dragnet” electronic surveillance violates
constitutional protection of free speech.  The Electronic Frontier Foundation filed its original
complaint in July in federal court in San Francisco on behalf of
the First Unitarian Church of Los Angeles and more than a dozen
other organizations that rely on private telephone conversations
to support themselves. Comey, the former No. 2 official at the
U.S. Justice Department under President  George W. Bush , started
his new job this month, replacing  Robert Mueller  as the first
new head of the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation since before the
September 2001 terror attacks.  The NSA, in coordination with the Justice Department and
FBI, uses a tracking program to collect information about “all
telephone calls transiting the networks of all major American
telecommunication companies,” including  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Corp. (S) , according to the complaint.  The lawsuit targets the “business records” provision of
the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, also known as Section
215 of the USA Patriot Act. The EFF, a San Francisco-based civil
liberties group, alleges that the NSA has violated the “right
of association” protection under the U.S. Constitution’s First
Amendment that prevents the government from interfering with
citizens’ rights to assemble and express political views as a
group.  Five Organizations  Today’s amended complaint adds five new organizations as
plaintiffs, including the National Lawyers Guild and Patient
Privacy Rights, according to a statement by the EFF.  Andrew Ames, a spokesman for the  Justice Department ,
declined to comment on the amended complaint.  The EFF won a ruling in July in federal court in San
Francisco allowing plaintiffs in a 2008 class-action case to
pursue damages claims over allegations that government
surveillance of phone communications violates wiretapping laws.  The case is First Unitarian Church of Los Angeles v.
National Security Agency, 13-cv-03287, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  