-- FDA to Steer Patients to Long-Acting Opioid Alternatives
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-09-10T17:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/fda-to-steer-patients-to-long-acting-opioid-alternatives.html
Makers of certain opioid pain
relievers including hydrocodone and oxycodone are being told by
U.S. regulators to instruct doctors and patients that they
should consider alternative treatments first.  The instructions, part of an effort to combat addiction and
misuse, will be required on the labels of extended release and
long-acting opioids, the  Food and Drug Administration  said in a
 statement  today. New labels will indicate the drugs are only for
people for whom alternatives are inadequate, the agency said.  Prescription painkillers were involved in 14,800 overdose
deaths in 2008, more than cocaine and heroin combined, according
to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Drugmakers
including  Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP)  and Purdue Pharma LP are
attempting to make tamper-resistant formulations that deter
tablet crushing that gives addicts a greater high.  “These labeling changes describe more clearly the risks
and safety concerns associated with ER/LA opioids and will
encourage better, more appropriate, prescribing, monitoring and
patient counseling practices,” Douglas Throckmorton, deputy
director for regulatory programs in the FDA’s Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research, said in a statement.  Endo makes the opioid Opana ER, while Impax Laboratories
Inc. sells a generic of the same drug. Closely held Purdue
Pharma also makes an extended-release version of OxyContin.
 Zogenix Inc. (ZGNX)  is awaiting word on whether the FDA will approve
its application for Zohydro ER, which would be the first single-ingredient hydrocodone drug.  Postmarket Studies  The FDA also is requiring the companies to conduct new
post-market studies on the abuse potential of their drugs and on
the possibility that users develop an increased sensitivity to
pain. The painkillers also will have to carry a boxed warning
elevating the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome that
can occur in the mother’s womb, according to a  consumer update 
also released today.  The FDA began requiring risk mitigation strategies of
extended-release and long-acting opioids a year ago that
included prescriber education efforts.  Hydrocodone combination drugs, such as Vicodin, are the
most popular pharmacy drugs in the U.S. with more than 130
million dispensed prescriptions in 2011, according to IMS
Health, a Danbury, Connecticut-based research company. The pills
were also responsible for 115,739 overdose-related emergency
room visits in 2010, double the tally in 2004, according to the
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  