-- FDIC Adopts Rule Change for U.S. Bank Branches in U.K.
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-10T14:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/fdic-weighs-deposit-rule-change-for-u-s-bank-branches-in-u-k-.html
The Federal  Deposit Insurance  Corp.
approved a rule responding to concerns that commercial
depositors in overseas branches of U.S. banks could be
disadvantaged in the event of a lender’s collapse.  FDIC board members meeting in  Washington  today voted to
adopt a measure responding to U.K. regulators’ concern that U.S.
banks favored domestic depositors over foreign-based account
holders. The agency in February proposed that overseas branches
of the U.S. companies make an FDIC-estimated $1 trillion in
deposits payable in either country.  “The final rule protects the Deposit Insurance Fund while
at the same time recognizing both the FDIC’s commitment to
maintaining financial stability through the prompt payment of
deposit insurance and the evolving nature of the global banking
system,” Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said in a prepared statement
before today’s unanimous vote.  One of the FDIC’s chief concerns was writing a rule that
walls off the insurance fund from non-U.S. deposits, so the
final  proposal  maintained a clear barrier. The adopted version
was virtually unchanged from the February proposal.  The rule is a revision of the agency’s definition of
“insured deposit” to make overseas accounts of corporate
customers also payable in the U.S. It puts foreign depositors
who aren’t covered by FDIC insurance in line ahead of general
creditors in a liquidation. About 40 percent of such deposits
are in the U.K., according to the FDIC.  In a joint letter to the agency in April, officials from
 Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp.,  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  and  State
Street Corp. (STT)  said that instead of forcing banks to make the
deposits dually payable, the FDIC could just give the same
treatment to all global deposits of a bank without extending
insurance protection -- an effort they acknowledged would have
required more rulemaking.  Not ‘Optimal’  “Dual payability is not an optimal way to treat custody
depositors and our customers have not asked to have their
deposits made dually payable,” the banks said in the letter.  Gruenberg said in February that the rule would bring U.S.
banks into compliance in the U.K. without requiring the
institutions to turn their branches into subsidiaries.  Restructuring foreign-branch deposit agreements and making
operational changes will be “an administratively challenging
and costly process,” according to the Clearing House
Association LLC, a New York-based trade group that represents
large U.S. banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of
America Corp.   “Because of the negative consequences to U.S. banks that
result from dually payable deposits, U.S. banks are likely to
make their foreign branch deposits dually payable only when
forced to do so by a foreign regulator,” the Clearing House
Association said in a letter to the FDIC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 