-- Fed Warns of ‘Escalating Threats’ to U.S. Payment System
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-09-10T19:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/fed-warns-of-escalating-threats-to-u-s-payment-system.html
The 12 Federal Reserve district
banks warned of mounting threats to the U.S. payment system such
as fraud, and called for streamlining transactions from the
point of payment to the point of receipt.  “Opportunity exists to improve speed and efficiency of
payments and to maintain payment system safety in the face of
escalating threats,”  the Fed  said today in a paper posted on
its website.  The central bank oversees the nation’s payment system,
which handles more than $3 trillion a day to pay for goods,
services and financial instruments, according to the central
bank. The Fed is seeking public comments on the weaknesses of
the system, including its inability to process transactions in
near-real-time.  “New ways of making payments and advanced fraud schemes
and technologies present new risks and challenges to maintaining
public confidence in the payments system,” the Fed said. “The
impact of a significant fraud event, cyber-attack or natural
disaster on the public’s confidence may adversely impact the
flow of commerce that is increasingly electronic or ‘digital.’”  The U.S. lags behind other countries in the speed of
transactions, the Fed said.  “In a world where several other countries are moving to
ubiquitous near-real-time retail payment systems, the U.S.
payment system does not have this capability,” according to the
paper, written by the Fed district banks’ Financial Services
Policy Committee.  The central bank also said “cross-border payments from and
to the United States are slow, inconvenient, costly and lack
transparency regarding fees and timing.”  The Fed is seeking responses to a survey on payment systems
through Dec. 13, 2013, at fedpaymentsimprovement.org.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  