-- Fonterra to Double China Milk Output After Contamination Scare
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-10T11:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/fonterra-to-double-china-milk-output-after-contamination-scare.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.,
said it plans to double milk production capacity in  China  as
dairy demand outstrips supply and as the exporter seeks to
regain  consumer confidence  after a recent contamination scare.  The Auckland, New Zealand-based dairy cooperative will
build a second farm hub in the Asian nation, a move which will
double its production levels there to 300 million litres a year,
it said in a statement today. The farm starts operation in the
second half of 2014.  Fonterra plans to raise milk production in China to a
billion litres by 2020 as rising incomes drive consumers to buy
more milk and yogurt. The dairy producer said last month a dirty
pipe at a processing plant may have contaminated a whey protein
used in baby formula with a botulism-causing bacteria.  While the New Zealand government’s testing subsequently
found the contamination didn’t pose a food safety risk, the
announcement led to import bans from some tainted  New Zealand 
dairy products as well as product recalls in China by companies,
such as Coca-Cola Co. and Danone.  “Raw milk supply growth in China has been around two
percent over the past three years but demand is growing at
around six to eight percent,” Kelvin Wickham, Fonterra
President in  Greater China  and  India , said in the statement.
“There are significant opportunities for Fonterra to help
bridge this supply gap.”  The new farm hub, located in China’s northern Shanxi
province, will have five farms with 3,000 cows each, the dairy
producer said. Fonterra’s first farm hub in the northern  Hebei
province  will have the capacity to produce 150 million litres of
milk when fully operational at the end of the year, said Maree
Wilson, Fonterra’s Shanghai-based spokeswoman.  The dairy cooperative was earlier this year also fined 4.5
million  yuan  ($735,000) by China’s market watchdog for violating
anti-monopoly laws. China, New Zealand’s biggest dairy customer,
bought NZ$3 billion ($2.4 billion) worth of dairy products in
the year through June.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  