-- Ford Expects European Profit in 2015, Unit Chief Says
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-09-10T20:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/ford-expects-european-profit-in-2015-unit-chief-says.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  expects its European
unit to turn a full-year profit in 2015, the automaker’s
regional chief said last night while  General Motors Co. (GM)  said
today it expects to break even there a year later.  “We are at bottom,” Stephen Odell, Ford’s European head,
told reporters attending the Frankfurt Motor Show. “There are
no major signs of uptick but it does feel like we’re running
along the bottom.” Odell provided the 2015 date in response to
a reporter’s question.  Ford and GM, the two largest U.S. automakers, are working
to end losses in  Europe  as the industry weathers a six-year
decline in the region’s auto market. European first-half car
sales fell 6.7 percent to 6.44 million vehicles, according to
the Brussels-based ACEA industry group.  Odell also said last night at least 25 new company models
are coming to Europe over the next five years, 10 more than Ford
said in October.  Ford’s sales in Europe rose 7 percent to $7.6 billion in
the second quarter. That helped boost Ford’s market share to
about 8.1 percent from 7.6 percent a year earlier, the company
said in a slide presentation for its second-quarter financial
results issued July 24.  CEO’s Challenge  Reviving the company’s European unit is one of Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s main challenges. Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford depends on its profitable North American
operations to make up for losses in Europe, which totaled $810
million in the year’s first half.  The automaker in July narrowed its loss forecast for Europe
to about $1.8 billion from $2 billion. In 2012, it reported a
loss of $1.75 billion.  Auto sales in western Europe fell 5.3 percent last month,
according to researcher LMC Automotive. LMC forecasts sales of
11.4 million in the region this year, a 3.2 percent decline from
last year and a 16 percent slide from 2008.  The ACEA is scheduled to report figures for July and August
registrations Sept. 17.  Ford has closed an assembly plant and a stamping and
tooling facility in  England  and plans to shut its Genk,  Belgium ,
assembly plant by 2014. The moves will reduce Ford’s annual
production capacity by about 350,000 vehicles, or 18 percent,
Odell said in July.  GM’s View  GM intends to break even in Europe by 2016, Karl-Thomas Neumann, who heads the company’s Opel unit, told reporters today
at the Frankfurt Motor Show.  “To really turn it around, we have to grow the top line,”
Neumann said. “We need to sell more cars and hopefully get more
money for our cars.”  The European auto market appears to be at the bottom and
early signs are positive, Neumann said.  “Cars on average are 14-years-old now,” he told
reporters. “We’re seeing the first lights at the end of the
tunnel. We hope it’s going to start slowly going up. We’re
relatively confident that we’ve reached the bottom.”  GM said July 25 its market share in the region narrowed to
8.5 percent from 8.8 percent a year earlier.  GM’s European operations, which mostly consist of Opel and
its U.K. sister brand Vauxhall, have lost more than $18 billion
since 1999.  Aborted Deal  In 2009, Detroit-based GM agreed to sell a majority stake
in Opel to  Magna International Inc. (MG) , the largest North American
auto supplier, and Magna’s Russian partner OAO Sberbank. GM
directors later that year voted to keep Opel instead.  Opel’s Neumann is a former  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  executive who took
over running GM’s European operations in March.  GM’s plan to end European losses includes closing its
Bochum assembly plant by the end of next year, which would be
the first shutdown of an auto factory in  Germany  since World War
II; cutting manufacturing employment; and a pay freeze for
remaining employees in exchange for preserving jobs.  GM gained 1.4 percent to $37 at the close in  New York  while
Ford rose 1.4 percent to $17.55. GM shares have climbed 28
percent this year while Ford has surged 36 percent, both
outpacing the 18 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Frankfurt at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  