-- Ford Adds White-Glove Service in Europe to Compete in Luxury
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-09-10T20:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/ford-adds-white-glove-service-in-europe-to-compete-in-luxury.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  is adding upscale
design details along with luxury service as it tries to win back
customers at the premium end of the European market.  Ford is showing a concept of the Mondeo Vignale, with 20-inch (51-centimeter) alloy wheels, quilted leather seats, chrome
detailing and a white-glove level of service. The so-called trim
level on the Vignale, positioned above the titanium trim level,
will be offered first with Mondeo in 2015, then will be added to
other models in the region, the company said.  German luxury brands have cut into Mondeo’s sales in Europe
as  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi have added entry-level luxury models while
Ford doesn’t have a separate luxury brand in the region. The
company’s Lincoln line fell 6.4 percent this year through August
in the U.S., and its sales peaked in 1990.  “With the Titanium mix being so high, we knew there was
something we can put above it,” Stephen Odell, Ford’s head of
Europe, told reporters at the Frankfurt Motor Show.  Ford, working to break even in Europe by mid-decade, is
trying to reverse a decline for Mondeo. The model’s sales
plunged to 86,675 last year from 293,654 in 2001, according to
researcher LMC Automotive.  The Mondeo Vignale will compete for Mondeo customers
looking for more as well as for customers considering sedans
from German automakers, said Roelant de Waard, vice president of
marketing for Ford of Europe.  Extended Decline  The European market is slogging through a six-year decline.
European first-half car sales fell 6.7 percent to 6.44 million
vehicles, according to the Brussels-based ACEA industry group.  Ford dealers will offer a luxury level of service for
Vignale models, including free car washes and picking up and
dropping off vehicles when they need servicing, the company
said. More than half of Ford’s large-car customers in Europe buy
higher-end trim levels, the company said. Not all Ford dealers
will carry Vignale, Odell said.  Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally is looking to the
Mondeo to replicate the success of its U.S. version, the Fusion.
Deliveries of the mid-size sedan surged 13 percent this year
through August. Fusion has reduced the lead of Toyota Motor
Corp.’s Camry, the nation’s top-selling car. Fusion commands a
premium of more than $2,300 per vehicle compared with Camry.  In the U.S., Ford leads major automakers in market share
growth through 2013’s first eight months.  Ford depends on its profitable North American operations to
make up for losses in Europe, which totaled $810 million in the
first half. The automaker in July narrowed its loss forecast for
Europe to about $1.8 billion from $2 billion. In 2012, it
reported a loss of $1.75 billion.  Ford rose 1.4 percent to $17.55 in New York, the highest
closing price since January 2011. The  shares  have gained 36
percent this year, outpacing the 18 percent increase for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  