-- Forest Labs Picks Former Bausch Leader Saunders as its CEO
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-09-10T20:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/forest-labs-picks-former-bausch-leader-saunders-as-its-next-ceo.html
Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , maker of
the Alzheimer’s drug Namenda and blood-pressure pill Bystolic,
chose former Bausch & Lomb Holdings Inc. leader Brenton L. Saunders as its next chief executive officer.  Saunders, 43, will take over Oct. 1 for Howard Solomon,
who’s retiring after holding the job for more than 30 years, New
York-based Forest said today in a statement. Solomon, 86, will
remain as chairman of the board until next year’s shareholders
meeting, when Saunders is expected to succeed him in that
position as well. Solomon’s retirement was announced in May.  Saunders ended a three-year tenure as Bausch & Lomb CEO
last month after the eye-care company was sold for $8.7 billion
to  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  At Forest, he’ll
take the reins at a drugmaker searching for new products to
offset the loss of patent protection for its former top-seller,
the antidepressant Lexapro.  “We have long thought Brent would be an ideal CEO to
succeed Howard when the time came,” Kenneth Goodman, Forest’s
presiding independent director, said in the statement. “Over
the course of our announced search and rigorous board process,
during which we seriously evaluated a number of excellent
candidates, this belief became crystal clear.”  Forest rose less than 1 percent to $43.56 at the close in
 New York   trading . The company has gained 23 percent this year.  Saunders has served on the board since 2011. Before Bausch
& Lomb, he worked for six years at Schering-Plough Corp., the
drugmaker bought in 2009 by Merck & Co.  Icahn Praise  The choice drew praise from  Carl Icahn , the billionaire
investor who is Forest’s second-largest  shareholder . Icahn
staged two proxy battles with Forest in recent years before
gaining control of a board seat in 2012. Among his complaints
was that Solomon’s son, David, might be picked to run the
company.  Saunders’ “impressive record at Bausch & Lomb and
Schering-Plough are cause for optimism about Forest’s future,”
Icahn said in a statement. “We were happy to have assisted in
the selection process and we look forward to working
cooperatively and constructively with the board and with Mr.
Saunders to increase value for all shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  