-- Billionaire Bollore Rules Out Candidacy as Vivendi Seeks CEO
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-09-11T07:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/french-financier-bollore-says-he-s-not-seeking-vivendi-ceo-post.html
Vincent Bollore, the French
billionaire who is  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s biggest shareholder, said he
isn’t seeking a paying position at the company, leaving the
French conglomerate to look for other candidates to fill the top
job as it reorganizes assets around media business.  While Bollore is closely watching possible changes to
Vivendi’s board and management committee, “he himself is not
seeking a post or pay within the Vivendi group,” his company
said yesterday. He was among candidates for the CEO job,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Finding a fresh face to lead Vivendi is one of the tasks
Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou is seeking to complete before he
retires -- a move expected in about a year, one of the people
said. Vivendi’s corporate governance and nominating  committee ,
whose six members include Bollore, is scheduled to meet today.  Asset sales have helped 74-year-old Fourtou make good on a
promise to overhaul Vivendi. In the past quarter, the Paris-based company agreed to cut its holding in video-games maker
 Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and entered exclusive talks to dispose
of a controlling stake in Maroc Telecom SA to  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)   Vivendi has also hired a headhunter to identify potential
successors to CEO Jean-Francois Dubos, who stepped in after
former Chief Jean-Bernard Levy was removed in June last year.  A Vivendi representative declined to comment on Bollore’s
statement and progress for its CEO search.  Ports, Autos  Les Echos newspaper reported on Sept. 7 that Thomas Rabe,
the CEO of  Germany ’s Bertelsmann AG, was picked as a candidate
by Vivendi’s headhunter. In a statement, Bertelsmann said Rabe
isn’t available for other jobs.  Bollore, 61, has been building up a stake of about 5
percent in Vivendi. The holding is valued at 1.1 billion euros
($1.5 billion).  For years, investors have called for an overhaul of
Vivendi’s holding company structure, which they say makes the
stock trade at a discount to the value of the company’s assets.
Even as the stock has rebounded about 40 percent from a nine-year low of 12 euros reached in April last year, it is still
trading at 1.2 times book value, similar to 2008 levels, data
compiled by Bloomberg  showed .  The shares, which were little changed this year, fell 1.8
percent to 16.59 euros at 9:44 a.m. in Paris.  Net Debt  Bollore, who has stakes in businesses ranging from African
ports to an electric-car sharing service in Paris, joined
Vivendi’s supervisory committee in December after selling his
television assets to the company.  Taking into account asset disposals including Maroc Telecom
and Activision, Vivendi’s net debt will drop to 6.5 billion
euros from 17.4 billion euros as of June 30, the company said
last month.  For Vivendi, the decision to shift to media marked another
chapter in the improbable transformation of a former water
utility into a global media group. Former CEO Jean-Marie Messier
embarked on a $77 billion acquisition spree in music, film and
telecommunications before being pushed aside in a 2002 boardroom
coup.  Levy, his successor, went on to reinforce Vivendi’s
presence in telecommunications. Fourtou retook oversight of the
company after Levy was removed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  