-- Gaza Goat Feed Prices Jump as Sealed Tunnels Hit Economy
-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-09-11T10:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/gaza-goat-prices-jump-as-sealed-tunnels-hit-economy.html
Muhamed Musa used to save more than
$2,000 a month buying goat feed smuggled into Gaza, until an
Egyptian offensive shut the crawlways and forced him to import
from  Israel  at a higher cost.  Sales at his farm-supply shop have dropped by half, as he
joins the butchers, builders and others in the Hamas-ruled Gaza
Strip struggling with the economic jolt caused by the toppling
of  Egypt ’s Islamist government, the Palestinian territory’s
patron.  “If the crisis in Egypt continues and the tunnels stay
closed, we’re in real trouble,” said Musa, 55, sipping coffee
with a few customers outside his Gaza City store.  Mohamed Mursi’s election as Egypt’s president last year
threw open doors to Hamas, an offshoot of his Muslim Brotherhood
group that the U.S. and European Union shun as a terrorist
organization. His July 3 ouster by the military snapped the
doors shut again. Egyptian forces have since demolished tunnels
on concerns militants use them to attack security personnel in
the  Sinai peninsula .  Hamas Minister of Economics Ala al-Rafati said about 600
tunnels operated in the sandy soil of the border zone before
Egypt went on an offensive on June 30, the day protests against
Mursi erupted, leading up to his overthrow.  Few Remain  “Due to the ongoing Egyptian security campaign, 95 percent
of the tunnels are inoperative,” Rafati said in a telephone
interview. “This has caused severe losses to the  Gaza Strip 
economy.” He put the losses at $460 million, or 18 percent of
the territory’s gross domestic product.  The destruction of this economic pipeline has deepened the
hardship in the territory of 1.7 million, where six of every 10
people live on less than $2 a day, according to United Nations
statistics.  “The political upheaval in Egypt has battered the Gaza
Strip economy and crippled manufacturing and agriculture,” said
economist Hamed Jad, who writes for the Ramallah-based Al-Ayyam
daily newspaper.  Gaza, a 40-kilometer (25-mile) sliver of Mediterranean
coastline, came to rely on a smuggling network after Israel and
Egypt blockaded it to squeeze Hamas, which took control there in
2007 and split from Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas . Even after Israel eased its embargo in 2010, tunnels kept
operating because the Israelis didn’t let everything in and
smuggled goods were cheaper.  Tax Bonanza  For Hamas, the tunnels were a bonanza. Barred from foreign
aid to the Palestinians for refusing to renounce violence
against Israel, it slapped taxes on the smuggled goods. Its
government earned 40 percent of its revenue from those levies,
the Hamas-run Ministry of Finance said on its website.  Though Egyptian forces would shut tunnels under Mursi,
sometimes flooding then with raw sewage, his downfall freed the
military to act more forcefully as assaults multiplied. Twenty-five police were killed in an ambush last month.  The supply of fuel and construction materials has been
“sharply reduced,” Deputy Economy Minister Hatem Ouwida said
at a Sept. 9 news conference in Gaza City.  Passenger traffic through Egypt’s northern border with
Gaza, which increased under Mursi, has also been tightened
because of instability in Sinai. According to Gisha, an Israeli
human rights group, 11,449 people exited the Rafah terminal for
Egypt in July and August, 72 percent fewer than the monthly
average for the first half of 2013.  Passenger Traffic Squeezed  Egypt shut the passenger terminal at Rafah today after a
deadly bombing at an intelligence headquarters in northern
Sinai, Gaza’s  Interior Ministry  said in a statement. Six
soldiers were killed in the attack, the Egyptian military said.  While Mursi never gave Gaza the full freedom of movement it
sought, his ascent to power did break down barriers. The emir of
Qatar gave Hamas unprecedented political recognition in October
as the first foreign head of state to visit during its rule. He
capped the trip pledging more than $400 million to build houses,
a hospital and roads.  Much of the diplomatic capital has since evaporated. Qatar
hasn’t been able to get construction materials across the
Egyptian frontier into Gaza since Mursi’s ouster, according to
Zeyad Zaza, the Hamas government’s deputy prime minister.  Hamas is “under extreme political pressure,” said
Mukhemer Abu Sada, a political scientist at Al-Zahra University
in Gaza City. “Their allies are being weakened and they are
seeing themselves increasingly isolated.”  Isolated Again  The renewed isolation hits especially hard because Hamas
can no longer rely on traditional patrons Iran and  Syria .
Relations soured after the Palestinian group quit its Damascus
base to protest Syria’s deadly crackdown on opponents.  In its attempt to contain militant activity in Sinai,
Egypt’s military is also tightening cooperation with Israel,
which also has been attacked from the territory, bordering its
southern flank.  An Islamist group said an Israeli drone strike killed four
of its militants in Sinai this month. While Egypt said its  air
force , not Israel’s, carried out the attack, either version
would exceed the limits to military operations in Sinai laid
down in the two sides’ 1979 peace accord.  The hardship may also be fueling more discontent. A Gaza-based group modeled on the Tamarod movement that led the
grassroots drive to get rid of Mursi has shown up on Facebook,
saying it plans rallies against the “injustice” of Hamas rule.
“I don’t think there is a need to comment on this nonsense,”
Interior Ministry spokesman Islam Shahwan said.  In the meantime, things look bleak for tunnel operators
such as Abu Emad, who employed 30 people importing sheep, calves
and cleaning supplies.  “I miss the good old days when we were working round the
clock,” he said, sitting near the mouth of a demolished 350-meter tunnel. “I don’t believe Egypt’s going to let us operate
again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza City at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  