-- Italy Yields Rise Above Spain’s Amid Berlusconi Debate
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-09-10T17:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/german-bonds-drop-with-treasuries-before-inflation-linked-sale.html
(Corrects size of yield premium in sixth paragraph.)  Italian 10-year bond yields rose
above those of Spain for the first time in 18 months amid
speculation a vote on whether to expel Silvio Berlusconi from
Italy’s Senate will destabilize the coalition government.  Spanish securities outperformed all but one of their euro-area counterparts, narrowing the additional yield investors
demand to hold them instead of benchmark German bunds toward the
least in more than two years. Bunds tumbled as Chinese economic
data that exceeded analyst estimates and an easing of political
tension related to  Syria  damped demand for the safest assets.
 Germany  sold 910 million euros ($1.21 billion) of inflation-linked debt.  “The move has been driven by rising uncertainty with
respect to the political situation in Italy,”  Luca Cazzulani , a
senior fixed-income strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan, said
of the yield spread with Spain’s bonds. “In the past we have
seen Italian yields above Spanish in periods of tension. From a
macro perspective there are no big changes between Spain and
Italy. Both have seen improving data.”  Italian 10-year yields advanced one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 4.53 percent at 4:33 p.m. London time. The
4.5 percent bond due May 2023 fell 0.05, or 50 euro cents per
1,000-euro face amount, to 100.15.  The yield on similar-maturity Spanish debt fell three basis
points to 4.51 percent. The last time Spain’s yields were less
than Italy’s was March 6, 2012.  Key Vote  As recently as July investors demanded a yield premium of
42 basis points to hold Spain’s 10-year bonds instead of  Italy ’s
amid concern the Iberian nation’s economy was struggling to grow
and as Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy faced allegations from a
former colleague that he received payments from a secret fund,
claims he denies.  Demand for the debt was boosted by data including a Sept. 4
report showing a gauge of the nation’s service industries
expanded last month for the first time since June 2011.  Italian 10-year yields have climbed 13 basis points since
Berlusconi said on Aug. 30 that his People of Liberty Party may
withdraw its support for the government if he is ousted. The
rate is still almost three percentage points lower than its
euro-area record high of 7.48 percent in November 2011.  A key vote in an Italian Senate panel on his expulsion may
take place today, according to its head, Dario Stefano. The full
Senate will then have the final word on the matter.  Macro Backdrop  “The global macro backdrop has been more positive since
the Syria issue seems to be taking a back step,” said  Laurent Fransolet , head of European fixed-income strategy at Barclays
Plc in London. “They’re all factors that are contributing to an
outperformance of Spain and Italy, but Spain has the advantage
of not having the Berlusconi stuff hanging over it.”  Investors have shown interest for Spain to sell a 50-year
bond, though not immediately, an Economy Ministry spokeswoman
who asked not to be named in line with government policy said in
a telephone interview.  Germany’s 10-year yield rose seven basis points to 2.03
percent after climbing to 2.05 percent on Sept. 6, the highest
level since March 2012. The Spain-Germany yield spread narrowed
10 basis points to 248 basis points. It reached 244 basis points
on Aug. 19.  Chinese factory production rose 10.4 percent in August from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in
Beijing, compared with a median forecast of 9.9 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Retail sales advanced 13.4
percent, also topping estimates.  President  Barack Obama  said he would put a U.S. strike on
Syria on hold if the nation followed through on a proposal to
surrender its chemical weapons.  ‘Big Worry’  “A Chinese slowdown is a big worry for the market so
today’s industrial production data is putting some bearish
pressure on core government bonds,” said Alessandro Giansanti,
a senior rates strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“Lessening of the risks for Syria is reducing the flight to
quality. We also have quite a lot of supply this week, which is
leading to higher yields.”  Europe’s largest economy sold the 10-year index-linked
bonds at a real yield of 0.36 percent, up from 0.06 percent when
it last sold the debt on June 11. The 10-year German  break-even
rate , a gauge of expectations for inflation over the next
decade, was little changed today at 1.63 percentage points. The
nation will also offer 5 billion euros of 10-year bunds
tomorrow.  The Netherlands sold 2 billion euros of 10-year bonds at an
average yield of 2.412 percent, up from 2.061 percent at the
previous auction on July 9.  Belgian Sale  Dutch 10-year bond yields rose six basis points to 2.45
percent. The French 10-year yield gained seven basis points to
2.63 percent. Similar-maturity Greek yields fell 26 basis points
to 10.24 percent.  Belgium  is selling 4 billion euros of 30-year bonds via
banks today.  Volatility on Austrian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of Germany and the Netherlands,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Italian bonds returned 3 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spanish
debt rose 7.7 percent and German bunds lost 2.7 percent. Dutch
securities dropped 3.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  