-- German Stocks Advance as China Production Beats Forecasts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-10T08:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/german-stocks-advance-as-china-production-beats-forecasts.html
German stocks  advanced for a fifth
day as reports showed Chinese industrial production and retail
sales climbed at a faster than expected pace in August.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  both gained more than 2
percent as a gauge of carmakers climbed.  Dialog Semiconductor
Plc (DLG)  jumped 4.2 percent after Kepler Cheuvreux added the stock to
its German selected list. Kloeckner & Co. rose 2.7 percent after
Jefferies Group LLC upgraded the steel trader.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  advanced 1.5 percent to 8,396.29 at 10:42
a.m. in Frankfurt. The equity benchmark increased 2.1 percent
last week as manufacturing growth in the U.S. and China, the
world’s two largest economies, beat projections. The broader
HDAX Index increased 1.4 percent today.  “The latest data coming out of China is a clear indication
that emerging markets are still in good shape,”  Robert Halver ,
head of capital-markets research at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt.
“For Germany, this rather good data from China is a reliable
boost for German export-orientated companies.”  In China,  industrial output  rose 10.4 percent in August
from a year earlier. Economists had predicted production would
increase 9.9 percent after a 9.7 percent gain in July, according
to the median estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Retail sales 
jumped 13.4 percent, compared with a projected 13.3 percent
advance and a 13.2 percent gain the previous month.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said on ABC News that he may
postpone plans to launch a military strike in Syria if the
regime of Bashar al-Assad complies with a Russian proposal to
surrender its chemical weapons.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 54 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  