-- German Official Rebuts Samaras, Says New Greece Aid Conditional
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-09-10T16:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/german-official-rebuts-samaras-says-new-greece-aid-conditional.html
A senior ranking German
parliamentary official rejected Greek hopes of securing more aid
without additional austerity measures, rebutting an earlier
statement by Prime Minister Antonis Samaras.  “Should Greece need further help it’s perfectly clear that
it would be linked to new terms,” said Michael Meister, deputy
parliamentary chairman of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian
Democrats, in a telephone interview today. “There would
definitely be no new program without conditions.”  Additional aid for Greece would be provided under terms of
the existing program and won’t be tied to new austerity
strictures, Ethnos newspaper on Sept. 7 cited Samaras as saying.
Greece may need 10 billion euros ($13.3 billion) in additional
help after the current program expires, Finance Minister Giannis Stournaras told Proto Thema newspaper on Aug. 24.  The government agreed to reform measures that run to 2016
when it accepted the program, Stournaras also told the
newspaper, ruling out fresh conditions when it ends in 2014.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  on Aug. 20 said
Greece may need a new program, its third since since 2010 after
the existing program expires in mid-2014. Chancellor Angela
Merkel also referred to a new program in her Sept. 1 television
debate with election rival Social Democrat  Peer Steinbrueck .  Merkel, whose lead over her Social Democratic challenger
Peer Steinbrueck has narrowed less than two weeks before
national elections Sept. 22, said yesterday that  Germany  expects
“self-help” from partners like Greece as a condition for help.
The “first signs” of recovery are discernible there, she said.  A majority of Germans, or 63 percent, consider the “worst
part” of the euro region’s debt crisis is yet to come, while 32
percent said the crisis has peaked, according to a poll of 1,003
voters run by Infratest Dimap on July 29 and July 30.  Another 69 percent said they “trust” Merkel’s ability to
navigate Germany unscathed through the crisis. The Christian
Democrat leader’s recent comments on  Greece  focus on its first
shoots of economic recovery.  Greece must fulfill the conditions of the current program
or forgo further aid, said Meister, who’s defending his
constituency in the state of Hesse. If Greece doesn’t pass all
the conditions on the aid score card “any discussion about
further help is over,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  