-- Glaxo-Theravance Lung Drug Wins U.S. Panel Recommendation
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-09-10T19:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/glaxo-theravance-lung-drug-wins-u-s-panel-recommendation.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Theravance
Inc. (THRX) ’s lung drug Anoro Ellipta won the backing of a U.S.
advisory panel as the companies strive to gain marketing
approval of their new combination pill ahead of competitors.  The safety and efficacy data provide substantial evidence
to support regulatory clearance of the treatment for chronic
obstructive pulmonary disorder, advisers to the  Food and Drug
Administration  voted 11-2 today in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland . The
FDA is expected to decide whether to approve the combination
treatment by Dec. 18.  The companies, which won FDA clearance in May for Breo
Ellipta, are trying to get Anoro Ellipta to market before other
similar combination-ingredient drugs to treat COPD, an umbrella
term for emphysema and chronic bronchitis. Anoro is expected to
generate $1.4 billion in sales in 2017, according to the average
of nine analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The safety and efficacy of the drug has been adequately
demonstrated,”  Francis McCormack , a panel member and director
of the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine
at the University of Cincinnati School of Medicine, said after
the vote. “We are in desperate need of additional options in
this category.”  Panel members agreed the FDA should require post-market
studies of Anoro on more severe COPD patients who weren’t
included in original trials and to further assess what appeared
to be imbalances in cardiovascular risk demonstrated in the
trials.  Label Warnings  The companies have proposed labeling that includes a
warning for patients with cardiovascular disease. FDA staff
members said Anoro showed strong efficacy in a  report  ahead of
the meeting though they raised concerns patients may be at risk
of cardiovascular issues.  London-based Glaxo and South San Francisco-based Theravance
sought approval for two dose levels of Anoro, while the FDA only
asked the panel to consider the lower one. The companies expect
only one of the doses to be approved, Michael Aguiar, chief
financial officer at Theravance, said in an interview.  Anoro is a combination of vilanterol, a long-acting beta
agonist or LABA, and umeclidinium, a long-acting muscarinic
antagonist or LAMA, used with London-based Glaxo’s Ellipta
inhaler. Breo’s active ingredient is vilanterol.  Advisers considered an Anoro dose of 62.5 micrograms of
umeclidinium and 25 micrograms of vilanterol. Each ingredient
works through different mechanisms to open airways.  Breo is expected by analysts to have sales of $1.6 billion
in 2017. Theravance will earn tiered royalties of 6.5 percent to
10 percent on Anoro sales if the drug is approved, Aguiar said.  Pfizer Drug  Glaxo and Theravance tested Anoro against  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
 Boehringer Ingelheim  GmbH’s Spiriva and vilanterol alone.
 Novartis AG (NOVN)  is researching a LABA/LAMA combination for COPD
called QVA149. Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis said in July
that it expects to file for U.S. approval at the end of 2014.  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  and Almirall SA, as well as
Boehringer Ingelheim and AstraZeneca Plc also are studying
LABA/LAMA combinations.  Theravance said in April it would split into two companies
at the end of this year or early 2014. One of the companies will
be called Royalty Management Co. and will focus on the Glaxo
collaboration, while the other, Theravance Biopharma, will focus
on developing drugs. Glaxo is the largest shareholder of
Theravance with 27 percent of the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  