-- Glencore Boosts Xstrata Cost Savings Estimate to $2 Billion
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-09-10T17:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/glencore-raises-estimate-of-xstrata-cost-savings-to-2-billion.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the global
commodity trader and metals producer run by billionaire Ivan Glasenberg, raised its estimate of savings from the takeover of
Xstrata Plc to at least four times the initial forecast.  The acquisition Glencore completed in May will generate at
least $2 billion in synergies next year, the Baar, Switzerland-based company said today in a statement. Closing 33 Xstrata
offices, firing workers and cutting costs at existing operations
has saved $1.4 billion, it said.  The $29 billion purchase created the world’s fourth-biggest
mining company, adding coal, nickel, zinc and copper mines to
Glencore’s trading empire. The deal was expected to generate
annual cost savings “well above” the stated $500 million plan,
Chief Executive Officer Glasenberg said in May. Morgan Stanley
estimated $800 million of savings, it said yesterday.  “With a beat to cost savings and sizable capex reductions,
this release is likely to be well received by the market,”
 Heath Jansen , an analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a note to
clients. There will be “more to come” in future savings,
Glasenberg told investors today in London.  Glencore advanced 2.3 percent to 328.75 pence in the city
today, the highest closing price since May 30. The stock has
declined 6.4 percent this year.  ‘Rapid’ Integration  “We have successfully and rapidly completed the
integration of Xstrata,” Glasenberg, 56, said in the statement.
“A significant portion of the synergies are in overhead costs
at head and regional offices. We are only just starting to
comprehensively look at the combined mining and metallurgical
operations.”  The company has reviewed 88 projects acquired from Xstrata
and decided to suspend 44 of them, it said. It also raised the
cost estimate for its Koniambo nickel project, inherited from
Xstrata, by $1 billion to $6.3 billion. The cost of expanding
the operation was increased by about $800 million from an
earlier projection.  The operating cost estimate also increased 41 percent.
Chief Financial Officer Steve Kalmin told reporters in  London 
today the project was “another destroyer of capital.”  Glencore last month wrote down the value of assets acquired
in the takeover by $7.7 billion to reflect “the broader
negative mining industry environment.” The company, the world’s
biggest exporter of power-station coal, reported a first-half
net loss of $8.9 billion on the writedowns.  ‘Supply Shock’  Most metal markets are experiencing a “supply shock” and
won’t start to tighten until the middle of the decade, Barclays
Plc analysts said last week. Glencore Xstrata employs about
190,000  people  in more than 50 countries across industrial and
trading divisions.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Rio Tinto Group and Vale SA are among
rival producers cutting costs, selling assets and reducing
spending to counter lower prices and weaker profits. Glencore
today said it is likely to pursue further asset sales, in
addition to the Las Bambas mine in  Peru , once it completes a
portfolio review.  Glencore reduced its  capital-spending  budget for the three
years through 2015 by $3.5 billion from $29 billion.
“Sustaining” annual spending is then estimated at $4 billion,
compared with an earlier forecast of $4 billion to $5 billion.  Glencore has interests in about 35 coal mines in Colombia,
Africa and Australia, accounting for about 10 percent of global
seaborne supplies of the fuel. The company said it has had to
adjust to a “new reality” in coal markets since the takeover
was announced in February 2012 as prices fell on waning demand.  Suspended Coal  It has put 10 coal projects on hold, seven of them in
 Australia . These include the Wandoan mine, port and rail project
in Queensland state, where Xstrata had previously estimated a
A$6 billion ($5.5 billion) operation starting in 2014 to produce
30 million tons a year.  Glencore said it’s now the third-biggest producer of mined
copper, third-largest in nickel and biggest in zinc and lead.  The company is 25 percent owned by management. Glasenberg,
who holds an 8.3 percent stake, reaped a $173 million dividend
for 2012.  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, is a non-executive director of Glencore Xstrata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  