-- Glencore Interested in Expanding North America Agriculture
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-09-10T12:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/glencore-interested-in-expanding-north-america-agriculture-1-.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc, which
purchased Canada’s largest grain handler Viterra Inc. last year,
is interested in expanding agriculture holdings in  North
America , Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said.  Glencore, the world’s biggest publicly traded commodities
supplier, will market 70 million metric tons of agricultural
products globally in 2013, including 25 million tons of wheat,
Chris Mahoney, the company’s director of agricultural products,
said at an investor  conference  today in  London . The total is up
from about 46 million tons in 2012.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ,
which merged with Xstrata Plc this year to form the world’s
fourth-biggest mining company, completed the purchase of Regina,
Saskatchewan-based Viterra in December.  “In North America we’re not as strong as we’d like to
be,” Glasenberg said, speaking on a panel with Mahoney.
“That’s an area we’d like to look at in some stage. If
something comes available we’ll look at it seriously, but we’re
not going to be aggressively looking for something. We’ll let
the opportunities come to us.”  Glencore doesn’t have agricultural storage, milling or port
facilities in the U.S., the world’s largest producer or corn and
soybeans and the biggest exporter of wheat, according to
documents released today by the company. It plans to sell its
only U.S. agricultural production asset, a pasta plant in  North
Dakota , Mahoney said.  The Viterra purchase gave Glencore assets including grain
handling facilities at ports in Canada and  Australia , and almost
10 million tons of combined storage capacity in both countries,
documents show. Glencore also has assets including mills,
crushing plants and biofuel facilities in South America,  Europe 
and the former Soviet Union, and farms about 270,000 hectares
(667,000 acres) of land worldwide, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  