-- Glencore Sees Chinese Bidders Competing for $5 Billion Mine
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-09-10T17:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/glencore-sees-chinese-bidders-competing-for-5-billion-peru-mine.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the global
commodity trader and metals producer run by Ivan Glasenberg,
expects as many as four Chinese bidders for a Peruvian  copper
mine  that may be valued at more than $5 billion.  “There are groups forming together and combining,” the
billionaire chief executive officer told reporters yesterday in
 London . “We see there will be at least three to four groups
bidding. There is some other outside interest besides the
Chinese consortiums.” A first round of bids is due next week,
he said.  Chinese companies including  Chinalco Mining Corp.
International (3668) ,  MMG Ltd. (1208)  and  Citic Resources Holdings Ltd (1205)  are
among those studying offers for Las Bambas, people with
knowledge of the process have said. Glencore, based in Baar,
 Switzerland , is selling the mine as part of an agreement to win
Chinese regulatory approval for its $29 billion takeover of
Xstrata Plc this year.  The National Development and Reform Commission,  China ’s top
economic planning agency that approves all major overseas
acquisitions, usually restricts state-owned companies from
making rival offers.  “We understand the NDRC sometimes doesn’t allow them to
compete, but I think the interest that we’ve seen in China is
very robust,” Glasenberg said. “There is very strong interest
from some big major groups and they are not in the consortium,
so it seems that they are going to compete.”  BMO Capital Markets Ltd. and Credit Suisse Group AG are
advising Glencore on the sale. Las Bambas could be valued at
more than $5 billion, a person familiar with the matter said
this month.  Shareholder Payout  Proceeds from the sale may be returned to shareholders,
Chief Financial Officer Steve Kalmin told reporters. About $3
billion has been spent on the project so far. It’s estimated to
cost about $5.9 billion to complete, he said.  The Las Bambas mine is scheduled to produce 400,000 metric
tons of copper a year starting in 2015 for at least the first
five years. Xstrata said in January it was building the project
at a cost of $5.2 billion.  Glencore, the biggest publicly traded raw-materials
supplier, hopes to close the sale by year-end, Glasenberg said
on an Aug. 20 conference call. The deal may not be completed
until the first half of next year, Kalmin said yesterday.  The agreement with China struck in April that gave
Glasenberg approval to buy Xstrata requires Glencore to pursue
the sale to a buyer approved by the country’s Commerce Ministry
by Sept. 30 next year.  Sale Price  The sale price will be the higher of two scenarios --
either an evaluation by two independent investment banks, or the
total costs incurred by Glencore and Xstrata at the project,
according to Glencore.  Magris Resources Inc., the  investment company  founded by
former  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  CEO Aaron Regent, is considering a bid
for the mine, people familiar with the matter said last month.
 Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , China’s largest producer of the metal, is
also interested in Las Bambas, company secretary Pan Qifang said
the same day.  Glencore yesterday raised its estimate of savings from the
takeover of Xstrata to at least four times the initial
projection. The acquisition Glencore completed in May will
generate a minimum of $2 billion in synergies next year, the
Baar, Switzerland-based company said. Closing 33 Xstrata
offices, firing workers and cutting costs at existing operations
has saved $1.4 billion, it said.  The purchase created the world’s fourth-biggest mining
company, adding coal, nickel, zinc and copper mines to
Glencore’s trading empire.  Cost Savings  The deal was expected to generate annual cost savings
“well above” the stated $500 million plan, Glasenberg, 56,
said in May. Morgan Stanley estimated $800 million of savings,
it said in a Sept. 9 report.  Glencore has reviewed 88 projects acquired from Xstrata and
decided to suspend 44 of them, it said. The company also raised
the cost estimate for the Koniambo nickel project, inherited
from Xstrata, by $1 billion to $6.3 billion. The cost of
expanding the operation was also increased by about $800 million
from an earlier estimate.  Glencore last month wrote down the value of assets acquired
in the takeover by $7.7 billion to reflect “the broader
negative mining industry environment.” The company, the world’s
biggest exporter of power-station coal, reported a first-half
net loss of $8.9 billion on the writedowns.  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News , is a non-executive director of Glencore Xstrata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  