-- Glencore Xstrata Will Seek Johannesburg Listing This Year
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-09-10T09:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/glencore-xstrata-will-seek-johannesburg-listing-this-year.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the global
commodity trader and metals producer run by billionaire Ivan Glasenberg, plans to list on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in
the fourth quarter to reflect its growing business in Africa.  The company will apply to the JSE for a secondary listing
while keeping the London Stock Exchange as the primary location
of its stock trading, the Baar, Switzerland-based company said
today in a statement.  “Africa is an important and growing market for the group
and South Africa has a strong institutional investor base,”
Glencore said in the statement.  Glencore took charge of coal, chrome and platinum mines in
South Africa when it completed the $29 billion all-share
purchase of Xstrata in May. A listing on the JSE would be a vote
of confidence in a country where companies including  Lonmin Plc (LMI) 
and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  have been plagued by strikes that
last year turned violent.  Glencore Xstrata would be the fourth-biggest member of the
FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share  Index (JALSH)  with a market value of about 44
billion pounds ($69 billion) based on today’s market value and
 exchange rate . BHP Billiton Plc,  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) 
and  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  are the three biggest companies in the index
by market value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Xstrata’s South African projects include the Goedgevonden
thermal-coal complex in the Mpumalanga province, the Helena
underground chrome mine on the eastern limb of the Bushveld
Complex, the Wonderkop ferrochrome plant in the North West
Province and the Eland platinum mine near Pretoria.  Lonmin Stake  It also owns 24.5 percent of Lonmin Plc, a producer of
platinum in  South Africa  whose Marikana mine was the site of
some of the deadliest labor unrest since the end of apartheid
during last year’s strikes.  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg is in no
rush to decide what to do with the stake, he said today. While
platinum is viewed by the company as a “non-core” asset,
Glencore will continue to review the Lonmin holding, he said at
an investor day in London.  The combined group has interests in about 35 coal mines in
Colombia, Africa and Australia, accounting for about 10 percent
of global seaborne supplies of the fuel. It’s the third-biggest
producer of mined copper and of nickel. It employs about 190,000
people in more than 50 countries across its industrial and
trading divisions.  Glencore shares have traded in London and Hong Kong since
it sold $10 billion of stock in an initial public offering in
May 2011.  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News , is a non-executive director of Glencore Xstrata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  