-- Go-It-Alone Pensions Grab Attention of Australian Banks
-- B y   I a i n   M c D o n a l d   a n d   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-09-11T08:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/go-it-alone-pensions-grab-attention-of-australian-banks.html
Playing a Saturday competition
round at the eucalyptus-fringed  Whittlesea Golf Club  north of
 Melbourne , Gary Hunt told his three golfing partners that he’d
been to a seminar on how to manage his own pension and was
thinking of doing it.  Turns out, two of his fellow Australians -- a retired
school teacher and the owner of a tree-cutting business --
already did -- as do almost a million others.  “Once you mention it to other people, they go, ‘Oh yeah,
we do that,’” said Hunt, 59, the owner of a marketing firm.
“So you start picking their brains, and they pick yours.”  Australian employers must contribute 9.25 percent of
workers’ salaries to an authorized pension fund, driving  growth
of the country’s  retirement savings system  to A$1.6 trillion
($1.5 trillion). Savers, some dissatisfied with the fees charged
by professional managers for the returns they deliver, have
pumped A$506 billion into Self-Managed Superannuation Funds, or
SMSFs, the largest piece of the pension pie. After mostly
ignoring the do-it-yourselfers for the 20 years since SMSFs were
started, major banks and financial institutions, including  AMP
Ltd. (AMP) ,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
are now seeking a slice of the fees the funds generate.  The value of assets managed by SMSFs will quadruple to A$2
trillion by 2030, according to an estimate from the Australian
arm of consultants Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd. More than
200,000 SMSF investors say they need advice and are willing to
pay for it, according to  research  released in July by Vanguard
Investments Australia Ltd. and Investment Trends Pty.  Prime Time  AMP, the country’s biggest and oldest pension manager that
oversees A$179 billion, aired prime-time  television
advertisements  from March to July, offering to help go-it-alone
pension savers with everything from investment strategies to
ensuring they comply with regulations. AMP charges A$990 to
prepare and file regulatory forms to set up an SMSF and  monthly
fees  from A$165 to help investors navigate the regulatory dos
and don’ts. Audits and investment-management products come at an
additional cost.  “We certainly have very lofty targets to industrialize
this market,” said AMP’s managing director of SMSF
administration, Andrew Hamilton. “We’re not hiding the fact
that we want to be the biggest in self-managed” funds.  Most do-it-yourself investors turn to neighborhood
accountants spread out across the country of 23 million people
to help them administer the funds, including filing tax returns
and annual audits.  As of June 30, there were 509,362  SMSFs  covering 963,852
Australians, according to the Australian Taxation Office. AMP,
which bought SMSF administrator  Cavendish Superannuation Pty  in
June 2012, handled 9,650 such accounts.  Unique Plans  Australia ’s do-it-yourself pensions are unique among
developed nations. SMSF plan members -- each fund has between
one and four -- not only choose their investments, they are
responsible for custody of their assets and for keeping records.
People who had pension funds previously overseen by a large
manager can transfer the money to their SMSFs.  SMSFs can invest in a broad range of assets including
stocks, bonds, cash deposits, property, artwork and even wine.
Under certain circumstances, they can borrow money to invest in
property and equities.  Apart from SMSFs, authorized  retirement plans  include funds
established by labor unions or employer organizations, and
retail funds offered by banks or investment companies. Employees
can make limited voluntary contributions. Australians can’t
withdraw employer-contributed money from pension funds,
including SMSFs, until they are at least 55.  Financial Review  In the U.S., contributions are collected from workers’
paychecks and held by the government’s  Social Security
Administration . In addition, workers may have corporate pensions
overseen by professional money managers, or private plans such
as 401(k)s and individual retirement accounts. While Americans
have some choice in picking the investments for their private
pensions, plan sponsors choose the options, as well as the
administrators that keep records and safeguard assets.  What sets Australia’s self-managed funds apart is that they
can be established and run without any link to Australia’s major
wealth-management firms.  “It is in the title -- self-managed,” said Nick Fortune,
a former money-market broker who moved to Australia 10 years ago
from the U.K. “It is something I can play with, that I have
control of.”  Fundamental Difference  “The fundamental difference here is that they are not
offered by a provider,” said David Knox, a senior partner in
Sydney at Mercer, the consulting firm of New York-based Marsh &
McLennan Cos. “The individuals are the trustees or the
fiduciaries.”  Some SMSFs use Australian financial institutions for basic
services such as cash-management accounts and Internet-based
share trading. Big firms are missing out on advisory and
management fees, which average 1.2 percent of assets in pension
funds offered by the country’s large money managers. SMSF
expenses averaged 0.5 percent of assets in the year to June 30,
2011, the latest date for which data are available,  according to
the tax office.   Hunt, who manages the pension assets of his wife and
daughter in the same fund, invests some money in shares through
a brokerage and keeps the fund’s cash at a local credit union.  “I’ve never done worse than the stock market,” he said.
“It has always been a little bit ahead.”  Australia’s benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  is up 12 percent
this year.  Control, Fees  Self-managed pension holders cite control over decision-making and dissatisfaction with management fees charged by large
pension managers as reasons for taking control of their own
retirement savings. Many say that the fund managers where they
previously held their retirement assets didn’t perform well
during the global economic crisis that followed the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, said Linda Elkins,
executive general manager at Colonial First State, a unit of
Commonwealth Bank and Australia’s fourth-largest pension
manager.  In the four years to June 30, 2011, which encompassed the
global crisis and years following, Australia’s large pension
funds produced an average annual negative return of 0.7 percent,
according to the tax office. SMSFs returned a positive 0.65
percent after fees and expenses. Data for SMSFs for the two
subsequent years hasn’t been released.  Courting Investors  Both Commonwealth Bank and Westpac -- the country’s two
largest banks by market value -- in the past 12 months have
established teams to tap SMSF money.  Commonwealth Bank is developing a website to educate SMSF
holders about regulatory obligations and wants to use the site
to offer other products. The bank on Sept. 3 said it would offer
installment warrants aimed at SMSFs, allowing them to borrow to
invest in shares of 28 Australian-listed companies and  exchange
traded funds .  Westpac bought advertising space in Australia’s business
newspaper offering an SMSF specialist as a personal banker and
is training staff to assist SMSF trustees, who are considered
more investment-savvy than other Australians.  “As the momentum gains, people are having barbecue
conversations” about setting up their own funds, said Chris
Lumby, who coordinates Westpac’s offerings to SMSFs. “If we can
be the SMSF’s cash hub, we believe we will have greater ability
to cross sell other products, whether they be banking products
or wealth products.”  Bringing Focus  National Australia Bank (NAB) , the country’s largest lender by
assets, began offering margin lending for SMSFs, allowing fund
holders to borrow money to invest in shares. The bank, which
owns wealth manager  MLC Ltd. , also established a website that,
like Commonwealth Bank’s portal, seeks to help SMSF trustees
navigate regulations and receive investment advice.  The bank is trying to bring “all the parts of the group to
focus on this market,” said Peter Hogan, NAB’s national manager
for SMSF advice. Aside from share trading, SMSFs also turn to
banks for term deposits and loans.  Whetting the appetite of the country’s largest wealth
managers are the higher account balances of SMSFs compared with
other types of pension accounts.  These funds held A$480,400 on average as of June 2012,
compared with A$22,900 to A$101,800 for the other types of
pension accounts, according to the  Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority.   Enormous Buildup  Also, more than 60 percent of self-managed fund holders are
like Hunt -- over 55 and nearing an age when they will consider
how best to start drawing an income from the pension assets
they’ve accumulated.  “We know that there is an enormous buildup of pre-retirement assets in SMSFs,” said Colonial First State’s
Elkins. As SMSF holders retire, stop accumulating funds and
start drawing a pension “they’re going to face a series of
investment challenges,” including producing income while
maintaining capital security, she said.  By the middle of this year, SMSFs held the largest
proportion of superannuation assets with a 31 percent share,
followed by retail funds with 26 percent, industry funds with 20
percent and government-employee pensions with 16 percent,
according to data from the regulator.  Self-managed funds in the three months through March had
the largest proportion allocated to equities, followed by cash,
term deposits and commercial property, according to the tax
office.  Growth in SMSFs “challenges the mainstream, vanilla
propositions of the institutional end of the market,” said
Jeremy Cooper, who led a government review of Australia’s
superannuation sector in 2009 and 2010. These institutions “may
well be able to come up with products and services that are
attractive to self-managed” funds. “Nearly everybody is
looking for that kind of sweet spot.”  ‘Poor Advice’  Australian Securities and Investment Commission , which
regulates the advice that self-managed funds receive, has been
tightening rules that could affect the country’s 12,500
accountants who advise and administer SMSFs. Last year the
commission set up a  task force  to examine risks in the sector
and found “concerning pockets of poor advice.”  This year the regulator required auditors of self-managed
funds to register and pass a competency exam by July 1. SMSF
investors must undergo an annual audit to ensure they comply
with laws, usually performed by accountants. They also must file
a separate tax form and keep detailed records, including why a
particular investment was chosen.  About half of the new clients that seek assistance from
financial advisers Dixon Advisory and Superannuation Services
Ltd. are existing SMSF investors looking for better advice, up
from a third a year ago, said Steve Netting, an  executive
director  at Dixon.  Some accountants that audit SMSFs may have decided to no
longer offer the service given the registration requirements,
said Liz Westover, head of superannuation at the  Institute of
Chartered Accountants Australia .  “Wherever you look across the sector, there’s almost
nobody who has big market share,” Cooper said. “Apply
traditional logic about what happens in industries and you would
expect a massive amount of consolidation and big players
gobbling up market share.”  Would Hunt, the golfer, return to Australia’s finance
powerhouses for help managing his own pension?  “Nope,” he said. “Once bitten, twice shy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iain McDonald in Sydney at 
 imcdonald7@bloomberg.net ;
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  