-- Gold Curbs Help Muthoot Contain Bad Debt Surge: Corporate India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-09-11T11:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/gold-curbs-help-muthoot-contain-bad-debt-surge-corporate-india.html
Gold’s recovery from a two-year low
in  India  is providing relief to finance companies that are
struggling with record bad loans spurred by a decline in the
value of their collateral.  Delinquent debt at  Muthoot Finance Ltd. (MUTH) , India’s biggest
provider of gold-backed credit by market value, will drop from a
record in the three months ending Sept. 30, said Managing
Director George Alexander Muthoot. Indian gold futures surged to
an all-time high last month after the rupee’s plunge forced the
government to raise taxes to curb imports of the metal by the
world’s biggest consumer.  Bullion’s about 24 percent recovery from a two-year low in
June will help lure borrowers to Muthoot and  Manappuram Finance
Ltd. (MGFL)  as a cash squeeze prompts commercial lenders to raise
 interest rates . Bad loans at the two companies surged last
quarter as the monetary authority tightened rules, and as
investors lost faith in the precious metal as a haven, driving
down prices and prompting debtors to default.  “Recoveries will become easier as  gold prices  surge,”
Muthoot said in an interview. “Value of the collateral going up
always helps in the lending business. Concerns raised regarding
the business is allayed.”  Manappuram said in a March stock exchange filing, declining
gold prices may trigger an increase in defaults and an “under-recovery of revenue on certain gold loan portfolios.” The
company’s gross bad debt rose 21 percent in the three months
ended June 30 from a year earlier.  Import Taxes  India, which imports almost all its bullion, raised duties
on gold three times to 10 percent this year to moderate
consumption that has contributed to the rupee’s 13.9 percent
slide and an unprecedented current-account deficit. India
accounted for about 20 percent of global gold demand last year
according to data from the World Gold Council.  The rupee slumped about 8 percent in August, its biggest
monthly decline since 1992 and touched a record low of 68.8450
per dollar on Aug. 28. The currency rose 0.9 percent at 4:50
p.m. in Mumbai.  The  Reserve Bank  of India in July raised two interest rates
to curb the currency’s slide. Three-month interbank money rates
 surged  338 basis points from July 15 to 11.59 percent after the
central bank’s move.  Rising borrowing costs and precious metal prices may add to
Muthoot’s customers. The company, which has 6 million clients,
says it adds 80,000 new borrowers everyday. The company has
4,163 branches, according to a presentation on the Kochi, India-based Muthoot’s website.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s second-largest
lender, had 3,350 offices in the nation as of June 30.  Local Taxes  Gold contract for delivery in October surged to a record
35,074 rupees per 10 grams on the  Multi Commodity Exchange  on
Aug. 28 and was at 30,509 rupees at 4:35 p.m.in Mumbai.  Rupee-based gold prices have gained about 1 percent this year,
compared with a 18 percent drop in the metal priced in dollars.  Bullion prices in India are much higher than international
rates after adding the various taxes and local premium, said
Haresh Soni, chairman of the All India Gems & Jewelery Trade
Federation, which represents 300,000 jewelers and bullion
dealers across the country.  An increase in the value of the metal helped pull Muthoot’s
 shares  up 51 percent from a record low in August. They rose 0.1
percent to 124 rupees in Mumbai. Manappuram, which has declined
48 percent this year, rose 3 percent to 17.45 rupees.  RBI Order  “There would be better numbers going ahead in the fiscal
third and fourth quarters,” said Laxmi Ahuja, an analyst at
Marwadi Share & Finance Ltd. The companies will get better value
for the collateral incase they are forced to sell as prices are
much higher now, she said.  Bad debt at Muthoot, which has more than 254 billion rupees
of loans backed by 137 tons of gold, rose to 5.38 billion rupees
as of June 30 from 2.99 billion rupees a year earlier, according
to exchange filings.  Manappuram, based in the south Indian city of Thrissur, on
Aug. 9 said its soured debt rose to 1.37 billion rupees as of
June 30 from a year earlier. It’s lent 91.6 billion rupees
backed by more than 50.3 tons of gold.  India’s central bank in March 2012 ordered the industry to
cap loans at 60 percent of the value of their gold collateral.
Before the rule, Manappuram was lending as much as 90 percent of
the value of its gold holdings, according to a Feb. 8 note by
Ambit Capital.  ‘Stronger Position’  Manappuram “readjusted the loan to value ratio to a very
conservative level almost three months back,” Chief Executive
Officer V.P. Nandakumar said by phone. “The rally in gold
prices puts us in a stronger position when it comes to asset
quality.”  High leverage at gold lenders is a cause of concern, a
 Reserve Bank of India  panel headed by K.U.B. Rao said in
February. The panel recommended gold lenders’ activities be
closely monitored through frequent collection and analysis of
relevant financial data.  Muthoot and Manappuram’s current risk buffers exceed the 10
percent required by central bank rules and there is no need to
raise capital, said Munish Dayal, a partner at Baring Private
Equity Partners India Ltd., a private-equity fund, that holds a
stake in both companies.  Muthoot has a Tier 1 capital ratio of 14.3 percent and
Manappuram has a ratio of 22.54 percent as of June 30, exchange
filings show.  “The concern that remains for the gold loan companies is
on the regulatory front,” said Dayal. “The business model is
sound, entry barriers are high and demand for these loans
remains strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  