-- Gold Futures Tumble Most in Two Months on Syria Proposal
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-09-10T19:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/gold-holds-drop-as-prospect-of-tapering-syria-plan-hurt-demand.html
Gold fell the most in two months as
Secretary of State John Kerry said the U.S. will explore a
Russian plan to eliminate  Syria ’s chemical weapons in a bid to
diffuse a potential military strike. Silver dropped 3 percent.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said diplomatic efforts
to persuade Syria to surrender its chemical weapons should be
given time to work, and a bipartisan group of senators is
drafting an alternative to the proposal authorizing a U.S.
military strike. Gold also dropped on speculation that the
Federal Reserve will cut U.S. monetary stimulus soon, eroding
the metal’s appeal as an alternative investment.  “The gold price has come under pressure in response to the
latest signs of de-escalation in the Syrian crisis,”
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt  said in a report. “The possibility
of the Fed already scaling back its bond purchases following the
Federal Open Market Committee’s meeting next week has also not
been excluded, which would weigh on the gold price.”  Gold futures for December delivery slid 1.6 percent to
close at $1,364 an ounce at 1:54 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest drop for a most-active contract since July 5. The
metal has slumped 19 percent this year.  On Aug. 28, the price reached a 15-week high of $1,434 as
the U.S. indicated it would attack Syria for using chemical
weapons against civilians.  The rebound is over, partly because of easing Syrian
tensions, and prices may drop to $1,200 by the end of this year,
Societe Generale SA said today in a report. “Strong” sales of
exchange-traded  funds  backed by the metal probably will resume
soon, the bank said.  Silver futures for December delivery fell 70.1 cents to
$23.016 an ounce on the Comex. The price has tumbled 24 percent
this year. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, platinum futures
for October delivery declined 0.6 percent to $1,474.10 an ounce.
Palladium futures for December delivery rose 1.4 percent to
$692.65 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  