-- Google Must Face Wiretap Claims in Suit Over Street View
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-09-10T23:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/google-must-face-wiretap-act-claims-in-lawsuit-over-streetview.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s most-used
Internet search engine, must face claims in a lawsuit that its
Street View feature violated protections against wiretapping, a
federal appeals court ruled  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco upheld a judge’s
decision that Google must face the claims. The Wi-Fi network
data collected by the company, unlike radio communications, is
covered by the privacy protections of the U.S. Wiretap Act, the
appeals panel said.  “Payload data transmitted over an unencrypted Wi-Fi
network is not readily accessible to the general public,” Judge
Jay Bybee said in a unanimous ruling of the three-member panel.
“Google cannot avail itself” of exemptions to the wiretap law,
he said. The data collected included e-mails, user names,
passwords, images and documents.  “We are disappointed in the Ninth Circuit’s decision and
are considering our next steps,” Google said in an e-mail.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , said in May
2010 that it had mistakenly gathered information from open
wireless networks while it was capturing images of roadways and
houses for Street View and that it would stop using Wi-Fi
information for the service.  Computer users alleged in lawsuits that their privacy was
invaded, and government agencies in the U.S. and countries
including France and  Germany  opened investigations into the
company’s data-gathering practices.  Unencrypted Networks  Google argued that under the Wiretap Act it isn’t illegal
to intercept radio communications or any “form of electronic
communication readily accessible to the general public.” That
includes communications over unencrypted Wi-Fi networks, it
said.  “This appeals court decision is a tremendous victory for
privacy rights. It means Google can’t suck up private
communications from people’s Wi-Fi networks and claim their Wi-Spying was exempt from federal wiretap laws,” said John M. Simpson, privacy project director at nonprofit Consumer
Watchdog, which is representing plaintiffs in the lawsuit.
“Because Google’s Wi-Spy activity was so extensive, the
potential damages could amount to billions of dollars.”  The case is Joffe v. Google, 11-17483, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  