-- Gulf Keystone Wins Lawsuit Over Ex-Soldier’s Iraqi-Oil Claim
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-09-10T15:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/gulf-keystone-wins-lawsuit-over-ex-soldier-s-iraqi-oil-claims.html
Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. (GKP)  won a
U.K. lawsuit brought by a former U.S. Special Forces captain who
sought a stake in the company’s Iraqi oil fields he said was
worth as much as $1.6 billion.  The soldier’s company, Excalibur Ventures LLC, didn’t live
up to its obligations under a contract with Gulf Keystone to
develop the oil fields in Iraq’s Kurdistan region, Judge
Christopher Clarke said in a ruling today in  London . Shares of
the company rose 17 percent.  Excalibur’s “lack of financial resources prevented it from
being able to fulfill its financial obligations” and has no
valid claim, Clarke said.  Gulf Keystone’s Shaikan oil fields will produce 250,000
barrels a day by 2018, according to the company. The lawsuit has
held back Gulf Keystone’s stock, which had gained 7 percent this
year before the verdict, compared with advances for regional
competitors of more than 20 percent for  Genel Energy Plc (GENL)  and 50
percent for  DNO International ASA. (DNO)   The ruling removes uncertainty for Gulf Keystone  shares ,
which were suspended this morning ahead of the verdict, said
 Dougie Youngson , an analyst at VSA Capital Ltd. in London. Once
shares resumed trading, the company rose as much as 28 percent
to 240 pence before closing at 219.25 pence in London trading.  “People are reluctant to invest when there is ongoing
litigation,” Youngson said. “It’s good news for the company
and there will inevitably be talk of a takeover now.”  Special Forces  The suit was filed by Rex Wempen, who served in the U.S.
Special Forces in Korea and  Japan  in the 1990s and is a founding
member of the U.S.-Kurdistan Business Council. He said that he
took the idea to Gulf Keystone and was promised a 30 percent
share that he argued was worth $1.6 billion.  “It has been unfortunate that the company and its
shareholders have experienced significant uncertainty and
concern over the last 2 1/2 years,” Todd Kozel, Gulf Keystone’s
chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement. He said
the company is now targeting a move from the London Stock
Exchange’s AIM growth market to the main list.  Wempen’s lawyer, Alex Panayides, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  2009 Discovery  Gulf Keystone’s 2009 oil discovery would never have
happened if Wempen hadn’t risked trekking into  Iraq  during the
second Gulf war to make contact with Kurdish leaders, his
lawyers said in a six-month trial that ended in March.  Kozel argued Wempen hadn’t fulfilled his end of the bargain
because he didn’t help with exploration costs.  Kozel said last month that the company, which has spent
$780 million in Kurdistan so far, will be able to fund the
development of its fields with cash flow generated once
production starts at an initial rate of 40,000 barrels a day
this year.  Texas Keystone, a company owned by Kozel’s family that was
also a defendant in the lawsuit, said in a statement it had
acted properly in all its dealings with Excalibur.  The case is: Excalibur Ventures LLC v. Texas Keystone Inc.
& Ors, High Court of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division , Commercial
Court, 10-1517.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  