-- Guodian, Agricultural Development Bank: China New Bond Alert
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-10T01:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/guodian-agricultural-development-bank-china-new-bond-alert.html
Finance Ministry , Agricultural
Development Bank of China and China Guodian Corp. are among
issuers that may sell bonds denominated in  yuan .  Domestic Bonds  CHINA GUODIAN CORP.: The company will sell 4.3 billion yuan
($702 million) of one-year bonds on Sept. 16, according to a
statement on Chinamoney.com.cn, a website of the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. (Added Sept. 9)  AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF CHINA: The policy bank
will sell 8 billion yuan of two-year notes on Sept. 12,
according to a statement on the Chinese bond clearing website.
(Added Sept. 9)  FINANCE MINISTRY: The ministry will auction 30 billion yuan
of seven-year bonds on Sept. 11, according to a statement posted
on its website. The ministry will also sell 26 billion yuan of
30-year bonds on Sept. 13, a separate statement showed. (Updated
Sept. 10)  HUATAI SECURITIES CO.: The brokerage will sell 3 billion
yuan of 90-day bonds today, according to a statement on the
Chinese bond clearing website. (Updated Sept. 10)  SOUTHWEST SECURITIES CO.: The brokerage will sell 1 billion
yuan of 91-day bonds today, according to a statement on
Chinamoney.com.cn, a website of the  China  Foreign Exchange Trade
System. (Updated Sept. 10)  CHINA DEVELOPMENT BANK: The policy bank will sell up to 10
billion yuan each of three-year and five-year bonds today,
according to a statement on the Chinese bond clearing website.
(Updated Sept. 10)  CHINA ZHESHANG BANK: The bank plans to sell 1.5 billion
yuan of five-year bonds today, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the matter. (Updated Sept. 10)  CHINA RAILWAY CORP.: The company will sell 20 billion yuan
of bonds next week, two people familiar with the matter said on
Sept. 4. (Added Sept. 6)  GUANGZHOU R&F PROPERTIES CO.: The company plans to raise as
much as 6 billion yuan from a sale of bonds, according to a
statement on the Hong Kong stock exchange’s website. (Added Aug.
29)  HAITONG SECURITIES CO.: The company has received approval
to sell corporate bonds after applying to issue as much as 23
billion yuan of debt, according to a statement on the Hong Kong
stock exchange’s website. (Added Aug. 29)  CHINA CITIC BANK CORP.: The lender plans to sell as much as
37 billion yuan of qualified Tier-2 instruments, according to a
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange. The notes will have a
maturity of five years or more. (Added Aug. 28)  SHANGHAI LUJIAZUI GROUP: The company is said to be planning
a sale of 2.6 billion yuan of five-year bonds, according to two
people with direct knowledge of the matter. (Added Aug. 22)  CHINA LONGYUAN POWER GROUP CORP. : The company is seeking
permission from shareholders to sell up to 6.7 billion yuan of
bonds. It will then ask the China Securities Regulatory
Commission for approval. (Added Aug. 26)  CHINA ALUMINUM INTERNATIONAL ENGINEERING CORPORATION LTD.:
The company has proposed issuing corporate debt and perpetual
bonds, and said its onshore and offshore corporate debt
financing instruments will be no more than 5 billion yuan in
total, according to a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange.
Offshore perpetual bonds to be offered will be no more than 2
billion yuan, according to the statement. (Added Aug. 19)  INDUSTRIAL BANK CO.: The lender has approved a plan to sell
as much as 20 billion yuan of bonds with a writedown feature to
boost tier-2 capital, according to a statement to the  Shanghai
Stock Exchange . The bonds will have a maturity of no less than
five years and will be sold before the end of 2014. (Added Aug.
13)  Offshore Bonds  FIRST COMMERCIAL BANK CO.: The bank is seeking to sell 3
billion yuan of bonds, First Financial Holding Co. said in
comments on the bank unit’s debenture sale plan in a statement
to the Taiwan stock exchange. The tenor will be within five
years and the purpose is to replenish mid- or long-term capital,
the statement said. (Added Aug. 19)  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  