-- IBM’s Deep Blue Stuns Chess King; ‘stop. reset.’: Correct
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-09-10T17:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/ibm-s-deep-blue-stuns-in-machine-stop-reset-stage.html
All 55,000 square feet of the  Park
Avenue Armory ’s Wade Thompson Drill Hall are focused on a table
not much bigger than the chess board atop it.  There’s more than a world chess championship at stake in
“The Machine,” Matt Charman’s play based on the 1997 re-match
between grandmaster  Garry Kasparov  and “Deep Blue,” the
computer that  IBM (IBM)  built to beat him.  Kasparov won the first duel a year earlier, and Deep Blue
returned with a chip on its shoulder.  The hall is tricked-out like a Las Vegas boxing arena, with
giant scoreboard, digital video screens and color commentators
bloviating from the wings.  All of which provides plenty of sizzle for very little
steak: As the match unfolds, Charman’s paint-by-numbers script
skips back in time to the parallel stories of Azerbaijan-born
Kasparov (the nuanced Hadley Fraser) and the computer’s chief
developer, Taiwan emigre Feng-Hsiung Hsu (Kenneth Lee, good in a
more one-note role).  Kasparov is a genius with mommy issues (the forceful
Francesca Annis). Hsu ignores his pretty cheerleader girlfriend
from Carnegie-Mellon (Antonia Bernath). Their passion lies
elsewhere, you see.  Charman toys with the idea that the man-versus-machine
showdown served a public relations purpose above all. But an
outsize set (Lucy Osborne) and snappy video (Andrzej Goulding)
don’t justify blowing such an intimate encounter so wildly out
of proportion.  Josie Rourke’s staging atomizes these gladiators, and the
echo-chamber sound doesn’t amplify the themes so much as render
them unintelligible. (Rating: **1/2)  ‘stop. reset’  At the  Signature Theatre , Regina Taylor’s ‘stop. reset.’
moves the techno theme a few decades closer to the present. Set
in the Chicago headquarters of a black publishing company that’s
been taken over by a conglomerate with the bottom line
paramount, it’s a timely meditation on the gloomy outlook for
books -- real ones, with pages and spines and ink -- in the
digital age.  Carl Lumbly is stirring as Alexander Ames, the aging, up-from-poverty patriarch. Even better is Ismael Cruz Cordova as
“J,” a window washer with dreams and, it seems, a direct link
not only to the World Wide Web, but to the tech future.  Best yet is Neil Patel and Shawn Sagady’s elegant design,
playing with projections of words, quotations and a Windy City
blizzard.  Taylor, who also directs, is not in control of her
material, which goes seriously off the rails after Alexander and
J connect. The play spins out into digital entropy that’s more
nonsense than the sad, surrealistic endgame it means to suggest.
(Rating: ***)  “The Machine” runs through Sept. 18 at the Park Avenue
Armory, 643 Park Avenue at 67th Street. Information: +1-212-9335812;  http://www.armoryonpark.org .  “stop. reset.” runs through Sept. 29 at the Pershing
Square Signature Center, 480 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-244-7529;  http://www.signaturetheatre.org .  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Broadway box office  and  Hephzibah
Anderson  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 