-- ICC’s Kenya Trials May Raise Ethnic Stress, Slows Oil Law
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-09-10T13:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/icc-s-kenya-trials-may-raise-ethnic-stress-slows-oil-law.html
The start of International Criminal
Court trials against  Kenya ’s president and his deputy threaten
to delay revisions to oil and mining laws and rekindle ethnic
tensions, according to Eurasia Group.  Deputy President  William Ruto  and co-defendant Joshua Arap Sang, a radio presenter, pleaded not guilty as the crimes
against humanity case opened at The Hague-based court today.
President Uhuru Kenyatta’s trial begins Nov. 12 on similar
charges. Proceedings are expected to last “several months,”
according to the ICC.  The leaders, former political foes who ran on a joint
ticket to win March elections, say they can manage East Africa’s
largest economy while fighting the indictments. Kenya is on the
cusp of becoming an oil producer as early as next year and is
preparing to sell a debut sovereign bond to raise as much as $2
billion by December to fund infrastructure.  “The start of President Kenyatta’s and Deputy President
Ruto’s trials could slow the legislative agenda, potentially
pushing petroleum and mining code revisions into the first half
of next year,” Clare Allenson, an  Africa  associate with Eurasia
Group, said in an e-mailed note on Sept. 5. Delays to policy
making may be caused by “weeks long” absences by the accused
and while lawmakers who support the pair travel to the court to
show their political loyalty, Allenson said.  Post-Poll Violence  Allegations of ballot fixing after national elections in
December 2007 sparked two months of clashes between mobs armed
with machetes, spears, and bows and arrows that left about 1,100
people dead and more than 350,000 homeless. Economic growth
slowed to 1.5 percent in 2008 from 7 percent a year earlier,
after farmers abandoned their fields and tourists fled.  “This trial is about obtaining justice for the many
thousands of victims of the post-election violence and ensuring
that there is no impunity for those responsible, regardless of
power or position,” ICC Chief Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda told
the court today.  Kenyatta’s ICC trial will be the first against a sitting
president. Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir has been targeted
by the ICC with an arrest warrant over charges of genocide and
crimes against humanity related to the conflict in the western
region of Darfur.  Kenyan lawmakers on Sept. 5 voted in favor of a motion to
leave the ICC after members of the opposition walked out of the
debate. House Majority Speaker Aden Duale is expected to present
a bill to that effect within 30 days. Even if that’s passed, an
official withdrawal requires written notification by the
government to the  United Nations ,  Barclays Capital  said in an e-mailed note on Sept. 6.  Arrest Warrants  Kenya’s pullout from the ICC would have no bearing on the
Kenyan cases and arrest warrants can be issued if Kenyatta or
Ruto fail to cooperate, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported
Sept. 5, citing ICC spokesman Fadi El Abdallah.  Kenyatta, 51, and Ruto, 46, fought on opposite sides of the
ethnic and political divide in the 2007-08 clashes.  ICC prosecutors accuse Ruto of mobilizing his Kalenjin and
allied kinsmen to carry out pre-planned attacks on Kikuyus,
Kisii and Kamba in Eldoret, 265 kilometers (165 miles) from
Nairobi, and the surrounding area. He “directly” supervised
weapons purchases and gave cash rewards to perpetrators on the
ground who looted and killed, according to a case information
sheet on the ICC’s website. Sang allegedly incited the attacks
through radio messages.  Kenyatta is  accused  of ordering the outlawed Mungiki gang
to respond with reprisal attacks, which included rape, on the
Luo, Luhya and Kalenjin communities in Nakuru and Naivasha
towns, about 87 miles northwest of Nairobi.  Tensions Rising  “Members of parliament risk raising local tensions over
the allegations as the witness testimony on human rights
violations comes to light,” Allenson said. “Further
politicization of the cases could cause low level unrest in
areas most impacted by the violence, particularly the southern
Rift Valley and the outskirts of Nairobi.”  The passage in March of largely peaceful elections deemed
credible by observer missions lifted business confidence in the
economy, which the government forecasts will expand at the
fastest rate in six years in 2013 at 5.8 percent. The Nairobi
Securities Exchange’s  All-Share index  is up 29 percent so far
this year, the best performer in sub-Saharan Africa after  Ghana .  “Foreign investors will be keen to see how these events
affect the country’s macroeconomic performance,” StratLink
Africa, a financial advisory, said in an e-mailed note Sept. 5.  “As such. we are likely to see a slowdown in foreign
activity momentum as foreign participants evaluate their
exposure to the NSE.”  Foreign Investment  Non-Kenyan investors represented 52 percent of all trading
on the Kenyan bourse in August, when it posted record turnover,
according to the Nairobi Securities Exchange’s website.  The shilling declined for a second consecutive day, falling
0.1 percent to 87.55 per dollar by 4:06 p.m. in Nairobi.  Kenyatta’s administration is making changes to oil and
mining rules to derive more economic benefits from Kenya’s
natural resources, with the start of crude output expected in
2014. The country has deposits of niobium, gold, soda ash,
fluorspar, titanium,  iron ore , coal and gemstones, according to
the government.  The ICC trials against Kenya’s top two leaders will
interfere with the government’s ability to enact policies and
make decisions, Njonjo Mue, head of the International Center for
Transitional Justice-Kenya, said by phone yesterday.  Full-Time Job  “It is clearly going to have an impact on the running of
the government,” Mue said. “The presidency is a full-time job,
the president convenes cabinet every week, signs bills into law,
chairs the national security committee, which is very busy now
because Somalia is still an issue.” Kenya has troops in the
Horn of African nation fighting al-Qaeda-linked rebels.  Ruto has already faced defeat on some procedural decisions
by the court. Judges rejected his request for the trial to be
held in  East Africa  and ruled against his wish to hold
proceedings in two-week intervals instead of daily. The court
has authorized Ruto’s absence from parts of the trial and it
will hear his case and Kenyatta’s on alternating dates.  “There will be no vacuum in governing the country,” Duale
said in an interview on Sept. 3. “The speaker of the parliament
and myself will be working with the president and when the
president is away we will be working with the deputy
president.”  About 39 percent of Kenyans want the ICC trials to go
ahead, while 32 percent prefer the cases be referred to a local
tribunal, according to Ipsos-Synovate, a Nairobi-based polling
company. The survey of 2,000 Kenyans held between June 23 and
June 30 has a margin of error of 2.2 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  