-- Tin Exports From Indonesia Seen Down to Seven-Year Low by Timah
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2013-09-10T10:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/tin-exports-from-indonesia-seen-down-to-seven-year-low-by-timah.html
Tin shipments from  Indonesia , the
world’s largest exporter, will probably decline to the lowest
level in seven years as the new trading rule forces producers to
hold back cargoes, according to PT Timah.  Exports are set to slump 19 percent to 80,000 metric tons
this year from 98,817 tons in 2012, said Agung Nugroho,
corporate secretary at the world’s third-biggest tin producing
company. That’s lower than every year going back to 2007 when
the Trade Ministry started monitoring sales.  Indonesia, which represents about 40 percent of global
shipments, introduced the new regulation from Aug. 30 as part of
wider efforts to increase the value of commodity exports and
strengthen control over supply. The government requires tin for
export to be first traded on a domestic exchange.  “It will be interesting to see the export figure in
September,” which should be very small, Nugroho said in phone
interview from Jakarta today. “Even if we can sell, there’s no
guarantee we can get buyers. Volume is very small.” Shipments
may average 3,000 tons a month through December, he said.  Timah, based in Pangkalpinang, trades physical tin
contracts on the Indonesia Commodity and Derivatives  Exchange 
with four other producers and seven buyers. The bourse traded a
total of 225 tons since Aug. 30, including 20 tons sold at
$22,695 today, it said in a statement.  Five-Month High  Tin futures jumped to a five-month high of $23,126.5
yesterday on supply concerns. The metal fell 1 percent to
$22,699 on the London Metal Exchange at 11:02 a.m. local time
today. Indonesia exported 68,002 tons of tin in the first eight
months, an 11 percent increase from year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Producers may increase shipments of other tin products such
as solder and anode, said Nugroho. The domestic trading
requirement will only apply for these products from Jan. 1,
2015, according to the regulation.  Smelters in Bangka Belitung, the main tin producing
islands, probably hold 7,000 tons of ingots in stockpiles, said
Nugroho. Tjahyono Mukmin, director of smelter CV Serumpun
Sebalai, confirmed the figure today.  “This is an opportunity for us,” said Nugroho. “There’s
a chance to buy the metals if the source is clear.” Some
smelters have asked  Timah (TINS)  to cooperate to sell tin, he said.  Most smelters were still holding back exports as they’re
waiting for the Jakarta Futures Exchange to get permits to trade
contracts, Mukmin said in an interview in Pangkalpinang.
Sutriono Edi, head of the Commodity Futures Trading Regulatory
Agency, couldn’t comment when reached on his mobile phone as he
was in a meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  