-- India’s Nifty Futures Gain After Benchmark Rally, Rupee Advance
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-09-10T02:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/india-s-nifty-futures-gain-after-benchmark-rally-rupee-advance.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures gained
before the nation’s financial markets reopen after a public
holiday yesterday. Rupee forwards advanced for a fourth day.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for September delivery rose 0.4
percent to 5,788 at 9:50 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index climbed 1.6 percent to 5,680.40 on Sept. 6, the
highest level since Aug. 14. The S&P BSE Sensex increased 1.5
percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-
traded shares jumped 2.1 percent yesterday. The rupee
strengthened to a one-week high of 65.25 per dollar on Sept. 6,
while one-month rupee forwards gained to 64.75 today, the
highest level since Aug. 26.  The Sensex climbed 3.5 percent last week, the most in more
than four months, and the rupee rallied after new  Reserve Bank 
of India Governor Raghuram Rajan announced plans to boost the
financial sector and support a currency that slumped to a record
low on Aug. 28. International investors bought the most Indian
stocks in two months on Sept. 5, data from the market regulator
show.  “Equity markets have reacted on cues from the  currency
markets ,” according to Dipen Shah, head of private client group
research at Kotak Securities Ltd. “The intentions and
initiatives of the new RBI governor helped change sentiment on
the rupee and stocks.”  Major Impact  Rajan announced plans on Sept. 4 to make it easier for
banks to open branches and lend to non-state sectors of the
economy, measures that JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts say will
have a “major long-term impact” on bank profits. The RBI will
also provide swaps for banks’ foreign-currency deposits that
Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimates will boost the nation’s
reserves by $10 billion.  Foreign investors  bought a net $167 million of domestic
shares on Sept. 5, the most since July 1, boosting this year’s
net inflow to $11.6 billion, the second-highest among 10 Asian
markets tracked by Bloomberg. They pulled $3.7 billion from
local equities in the three months to Aug. 31 as capital fled
the country amid slowing economic growth, an unprecedented
current-account deficit and a slumping currency.  The Sensex has retreated 0.8 percent this year in local
currency terms and is  valued  at 13.7 times projected 12-month
earnings, compared with the five-year average of 14.1 times,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. It has lost 17 percent this
year in dollar terms. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index trades at
10.4 times, the most since May 21.  The Sensex’s 30-day  volatility  index, a gauge of price
swings, rose to 27.7 on Sept. 6, the highest level since
November 2011.  Shares of  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  may be active after Jaguar, the
Indian carmaker’s high-end British car brand, unveiled the C-X17
small sport-utility vehicle prototype in a bid to challenge
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG for mainstream luxury-auto buyers.  Hindustan Zinc Ltd. (HZ)  may move after the Business Standard
cited unidentified bankers as saying they have advised Vedanta
Resources Plc to raise its offer to acquire the Indian
government’s 29.54 percent stake in the zinc miner by 10
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  