-- India Passenger Vehicle Sales Poised for First Drop Since 2002
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2013-09-10T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/india-passenger-vehicle-sales-poised-for-first-drop-since-2002.html
India ’s automakers’ body forecast
the first annual drop in passenger vehicle sales in more than a
decade as an economic slowdown damps demand for cars and SUVs.  Local deliveries of cars, including  sport-utility vehicles 
and vans, may decline this year for the first time since the 12
months ended March 2002, the  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers  said at a news conference yesterday. The group had
in April forecast a 5 percent to 7 percent increase.  “Negative sentiment is a major factor for the slowdown in
the auto sector,” Sugato Sen, the deputy director general of
the industry body, said in a phone interview from  New Delhi .
“The economic downturn, along with high  interest rates , high
inflation and high fuel costs are keeping buyers away. We don’t
expect a turnaround for at least the next two quarters.”  The industry body cut its car sales projection three times
in the last financial year after initially forecasting a jump of
as much as 12 percent. Car sales fell 6.7 percent to 1.9 million
units in the 12 months through March, the biggest decline since
2001, as  slowing economic growth  and high interest rates kept
buyers from showrooms, according to the manufacturers’ group.  India’s economy  expanded  4.4 percent  last quarter from a
year earlier, the weakest pace since 2009, as investment fell
and  consumer spending  in the nation of 1.2 billion people
moderated. Consumer prices rose 9.64 percent in July from a year
earlier, a report showed Aug. 12. That’s the second fastest pace
of price gains in the Group of 20 major economies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mahindra Layoffs  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , India’s biggest carmaker, doesn’t
expect demand to pick up because of the economic slowdown,
Chairman R.C. Bhargava said in an interview on Sept. 3. Growth
in Asia’s third-largest economy is forecast by BNP Paribas SA to
slow to 3.7 percent in the year ending March.  Local deliveries at  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , India’s biggest
automaker by revenue, fell 34 percent in August, and the group’s
car sales in India  almost halved  to 44,780 in the  first five
months of the year that began April 1.  Deliveries of utility vehicles, which increased 52 percent
in the 12 months ended March, have declined 3.1 percent this
year.  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the country’s biggest maker of
sport utility vehicles, said last month that it had laid off
1,000 contract workers as sales for its models, including the
XUV500 and Xylo SUVs, fell 25 percent in August to 18,137 units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  