-- Indonesia Sells $1.5 Billion of Sukuk at Top Rate Since 2009
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-09-11T01:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/indonesia-sells-1-5-billion-of-sukuk-at-highest-rate-since-2009.html
Indonesia  sold $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated Islamic bonds at the highest yield since 2009
as it seeks to bolster its foreign-exchange reserves to support
the plunging rupiah.  The nation issued the notes due in 5.5 years to yield 6.125
percent, according to Dahlan Siamat, Islamic financing director
at the debt management office. That was the highest rate for
global Shariah-compliant securities since Indonesia paid 8.8
percent on its debut dollar sukuk in 2009. The country last
offered global Islamic paper in November, selling $1 billion of
10-year securities at a record-low yield of 3.3 percent.  Bank Indonesia  has burned through $19.8 billion of foreign-currency reserves this year to stem declines in the rupiah,
which has weakened 14 percent against the dollar. Investors
submitted $5.6 billion of bids, more than three times the amount
offered, Siamat said, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 1.9
times at a sale of non-Islamic 10-year dollar bonds in July.  “We succeeded in tightening the yield significantly as
demand from investors was extremely large,” he said in an
interview in Jakarta today. “Our financing position is now very
secure for this year.”  The government hired Standard Chartered Plc, Citigroup Inc.
and Deutsche Bank AG to arrange the sale, Robert Pakpahan,
director general at the debt management office in Jakarta, said
in July. Indonesia allocated 15 percent of the notes to local
investors, 25 percent to the rest of  Asia , 24 percent to the
U.S., 16 percent to  Europe  and 20 percent to Islamic and Middle
Eastern funds, according to a person familiar with the matter
who asked not to be named as the details are private.  Shorter Tenor  The nation follows  South Korea  in tapping the global  debt
market , after Asia’s fourth-biggest economy drew bids for five
times the $1 billion of bonds it offered last week. The 10-year
notes were sold at 4.02 percent, 115 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, the  Finance Ministry  said.  Indonesia’s dollar bonds are the worst performers in 2013
among 11 Asian  emerging markets  tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc
indexes, declining 18 percent. The nation’s new dollar sukuk was
sold at a premium of 436 basis points, or 4.36 percentage points,
over similar-maturity Treasuries.  “We are compromising by taking a shorter tenor with a
hopefully reasonable yield,” Siamat said yesterday. “While the
government wants a longer-term horizon, we have to consider
market appetite, especially the preference for shorter tenors,
and secondly the cost.”  Current Account  Standard & Poor’s  rates the offer at BB+, the top junk
level, to reflect the “weak policy environment and external
pressures,” it said in an Aug. 22 statement. Moody’s Investors
Service ranks the debt at the lowest investment grade along with
 Fitch Ratings , which cautioned last month that Indonesia’s
widening current-account deficit may destabilize the economy and
lead to a rating downgrade.  The shortfall in the broadest measure of trade was $9.8
billion in the second quarter, the largest in data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 1989.  Foreign-exchange reserves  fell 18
percent this year to $93 billion last month, central bank
figures show.  “The government must have decided that supporting foreign
reserves is worth paying a steep price to sell global sukuk,”
Angky Hendra, Jakarta-based head of fixed income at PT Batavia
Prosperindo Aset Manajemen, which oversees 13 trillion rupiah
($1.1 billion), said last month. “The concern is that if
reserves keep falling, then investor confidence will worsen.”  Sales Target  The  average yield  on emerging-market sovereign dollar notes
was 6.2 percent yesterday, near the 6.27 percent reached on Sept.
5, which was highest since October 2011, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. index data. The rate has climbed 182 basis points
this year.  The average yield on global bonds that pay returns on
assets to comply with Islam’s ban on interest rose 148 basis
points this year to 4.29 percent on Sept. 6, according to the
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy raised its 2013 net debt
sales target to 231.8 trillion rupiah in June, from 180.4
trillion rupiah, as it seeks to fund an estimated budget deficit
of 2.38 percent of gross domestic product this year, which would
be the largest in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  