-- Indonesia Offers $1.5 Billion Sukuk Yielding Most Since 2009
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-09-10T08:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/indonesia-markets-dollar-sukuk-at-highest-yield-since-2009-1-.html
Indonesia  is marketing dollar-denominated Islamic bonds at the highest yield since 2009 as it
seeks to bolster its foreign-exchange reserves to support the
plunging rupiah.  The nation is offering $1.5 billion of notes maturing in
5.5 years, the  Finance Ministry  said today. The notes will be
offered at 6.375 percent, according to a person familiar with
the matter who asked not to be named as the matter is private.
That would be the highest rate for global Shariah-compliant
securities since Indonesia paid 8.8 percent on its debut dollar
sukuk in 2009. The country last offered global Islamic paper in
November, selling $1 billion of 10-year securities at a record-low yield of 3.3 percent.  Bank Indonesia  has burned through $19.8 billion of foreign-currency reserves this year to stem declines in the rupiah,
which has weakened 14 percent against the dollar. The price
guidance for the current offer is 4.64 percentage points more
than for similar-maturity Treasuries, almost three times the
1.74 percentage points premium at the November sale.  “We are compromising by taking a shorter tenor with a
hopefully reasonable yield,” said  Dahlan Siamat , Islamic
financing director at the debt management office in Jakarta.
“While the government wants a longer-term horizon, we have to
consider market appetite, especially the preference for shorter
tenors, and secondly the cost.”  Worst Performers  The government hired Standard Chartered Plc, Citigroup Inc.
and Deutsche Bank AG to arrange the sale, Robert Pakpahan,
director general at the debt management office in Jakarta, said
in July. A series of investor meetings for the offer finished on
Aug. 27, according to the office’s Siamat.  Indonesia follows  South Korea  in tapping the global  debt
market , after  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy drew bids for five
times the $1 billion of bonds it offered last week. The 10-year
notes were sold at 4.02 percent, 115 basis points more than
similar-maturity  Treasuries (USGG5YR) , the Finance Ministry said.  Indonesia’s dollar bonds are the worst performers in 2013
among 11 Asian emerging markets tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc
indexes, declining 19 percent. The yield on the nation’s 3.3
percent dollar sukuk due November 2022 rose 3.42 percentage
points since the notes started trading on Nov. 19 to 6.67
percent today, data compiled by Bloomberg show, handing
investors a 24 percent loss. The rate fell 17 basis points today
after the current offer was announced.  ‘External Pressures’  “Indonesia’s current fundamentals aren’t conducive for
selling debt, but the government is in need of dollar funds, so
they settled for the shorter tenor,” said Akbar Syarief, a
 money manager  at PT MNC Asset Management in Jakarta, which
oversees about $485 million. “The offered yield is very
attractive for the tenor so I expect demand to be good.”  Standard & Poor’s  rates the offer at BB+, the top junk
level, to reflect the “weak policy environment and external
pressures,” it said in an Aug. 22 statement. Moody’s Investors
Service rank the debt at the lowest investment grade along with
 Fitch Ratings , which cautioned last month that Indonesia’s
widening current-account deficit may destabilize the economy and
lead to a rating downgrade.  The shortfall in the broadest measure of trade was $9.8
billion in the second quarter, the largest in data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 1989. Foreign-exchange reserves fell 18
percent this year to $93 billion last month, central bank
figures show.  Sales Target  “The government must have decided that supporting foreign
reserves is worth paying a steep price to sell global sukuk,”
Angky Hendra, Jakarta-based head of fixed income at PT Batavia
Prosperindo Aset Manajemen, which oversees 13 trillion rupiah
($1.1 billion), said last month. “The concern is that if
reserves keep falling, then investor confidence will worsen.”  The  average yield  on emerging-market sovereign dollar notes
was 6.17 percent yesterday, near the 6.27 percent reached on
Sept. 5, which was highest since October 2011, according to the
JPMorgan  Emerging Markets  Bond Index. The rate has climbed 180
basis points this year.  The average yield on global bonds that pay returns on
assets to comply with Islam’s ban on interest rose 148 basis
points this year to 4.29 percent on Sept. 6, according to the
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy raised its 2013 net debt
sales target to 231.8 trillion rupiah in June, from 180.4
trillion rupiah, as it seeks to fund an estimated budget deficit
of 2.38 percent of gross domestic product this year, which would
be the largest in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  