-- Indonesia Seeks Bilateral Swap Deals With Two More Central Banks
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   N e i l   C h a t t e r j e e
-- 2013-09-10T05:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/indonesia-seeks-bilateral-swap-deals-with-two-more-central-banks.html
Indonesia  said it is seeking
bilateral swap agreements with two more central banks to protect
its sliding currency.  The country may sign accords this quarter that will allow
it access to more than $30 billion from new and existing swap
lines, Finance Minister Chatib Basri told reporters in Jakarta
today, declining to name the central banks. Indonesia may extend
a bilateral swap agreement with China, Bambang Brodjonegoro,
head of fiscal policy at the  Finance Ministry , said today.  Indonesia extended a $12 billion swap line with Japan last
month as policy makers try to bolster a rupiah that has fallen
11 percent this quarter, the worst performer among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Officials join
counterparts in India, Brazil and Turkey to support their
exchange rates as the prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus
fueled a selloff in emerging-nation assets.  “It certainly helps,” said  Fauzi Ichsan , an economist at
Standard Chartered Plc in Jakarta. “It doesn’t mean Indonesia
is out of the woods yet.”  If the swap tenors are long enough, the central bank can
borrow dollars and repay when there is more certainty over U.S.
stimulus plans and the Indonesian economy, Ichsan said.  Indonesia’s foreign-exchange  reserves  were $93 billion last
month, little changed from $92.7 billion in July,  Bank Indonesia 
said Sept. 6. The level of reserves in July was the lowest since
October 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India Pact  The reserves level, combined with slowing economic growth,
accelerating inflation and a record current-account gap, have
contributed to the weakening of the currency. The rupiah was
unchanged at 11,160 per  U.S. dollar  as of 12:25 p.m. in Jakarta
today, according to prices from local banks.  The central bank extended the Japan agreement because it
expects more volatility in international markets, it said last
week. India also reached an agreement with Japan this month to
more than triple its bilateral  currency-swap  line as it seeks to
stem a record slide in the rupee.  Indonesia and China in 2009 agreed on a three-year 100-billion  yuan  ($16 billion) currency swap to ease foreign-exchange shortages and aid bilateral trade and investment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Chatterjee in Jakarta at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  