-- Intel Debuts Quark Low-Power Chips for Wearable Devices
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-09-10T21:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/intel-to-make-quark-low-power-chips-for-wearable-devices.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , struggling to break
into the market for mobile phones and tablets, said it has a new
range of processors aimed at wearable devices such as
smartwatches.  The line of chips, called Quark, is designed to draw little
battery power and fit in small devices, Chief Executive Officer
Brian Krzanich said at a company conference today in San
Francisco.  Intel wants its chips to be part of the growing market for
gadgets that can be worn and used for fitness, computing and
other tasks.  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and other
companies have released wearable products.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , whose
Android operating system runs most of the world’s smartphones,
is promoting the use of its computing eyewear, called Glass. The
market for all wearable technology, including smartwatches, will
more than double to $18.8 billion in 2016 from $9.3 billion this
year, according to market researcher  IHS Inc. (IHS)   “We tried to build products consumers will want,”
Krzanich said. Quark uses “lower power than anyone thought
Intel silicon could ever go into,” he said.  Quark chips will be one-fifth the size of Atom, Intel’s
current smallest low-power chips, and use a 10th of the power,
Krzanich said.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest maker of chips for mobile
phones, last week announced its own Toq smartwatch, a device
built on its display and communications technology. The company
is aiming to use that to attract manufacturers to its products.  Smartphone Challenge  Quark will come in multiple variants and be customizable
for a range of uses. A greater number of industrial and
household devices will be connected to the Internet, Krzanich
said. Later in the presentation Intel showed off personal
medical devices as an example.  Krzanich is making his first major speech since taking the
top spot at the world’s largest chipmaker in May. Under his
predecessors, the  Santa Clara , California-based company hadn’t
been able to translate its dominance in personal computers,
where its chips power eight out of every 10 devices sold, into a
foothold in the market for processors that power smartphones.  While Intel is struggling to get its chips into mobile
devices, the company has a more than 90 percent share in chips
that power servers which feed handheld computers the data and
services they reply on.  Chip Strategy  That’s helped offset a decline in its main PC processor
business, which is predicted to shrink again this year. Global
PC shipments will decline more than previously forecast this
year, market researcher IDC said last month.  Unit sales will drop 9.7 percent in 2013, the Framingham,
Massachusetts-based researcher said on Aug. 29. That compares
with a May projection for a 7.8 decline. The market will shrink
until 2015, when it is estimated to post “modest” gains at a
percentage in the single digits, IDC said.  Reflecting that, Intel reported its fourth straight  revenue
decline  in the second quarter. Krzanich is seeking to persuade
more phone and tablet makers to start using its processors to
halt the slide and reignite growth. In order to do that, the
company has redesigned its Atom chips, aimed at delivering more
performance while using less battery power.  Intel shares rose less than 1 percent to $22.99 at the
close in  New York . The stock has advanced 11 percent this year,
compared with a 28 percent gain in the Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  