-- Investors Punish Miami Port Tripling Debt to Expand: Muni Credit
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/investors-punish-miami-port-tripling-debt-to-expand-muni-credit.html
The port of Miami, the world’s
largest cruise-ship hub, is selling a record $389 million of
debt to boost its cargo business as the Panama Canal expands.
Investors are balking, as the plan would triple the facility’s
bond load in four years.  With this week’s borrowing, the port joins East Coast
rivals taking on debt to finance upgrades in advance of the
canal project’s completion, set for 2015. A wider passage would
allow larger cargo ships access to cities such as  New York ,
Baltimore, and Savannah,  Georgia .  Even as Miami’s port bets that capital improvements such as
dredging will add revenue, Moody’s Investors Service cut its
rating to four steps above junk last month, citing the growing
debt burden. Bondholders showed concern by pushing the extra
yield over benchmark debt close to the highest since February.  “It’s a borderline credit, it was just recently downgraded
and the trends don’t look good at this point,” said Burt Mulford, a portfolio manager at  St. Petersburg , Florida-based
Eagle Asset Management Inc., which oversees about $2 billion of
municipal debt. “We’re taking a pass.”  Expansion Risk  For U.S. ports, the canal expansion presents risk and
opportunity as the destinations vie for business. Sixty-three of
82 ports surveyed by the  American Association  of Port
Authorities plan to invest $46 billion for infrastructure from
2012 to 2016, according to Randy Gerardes, an analyst with Wells
Fargo Securities. That compares with a combined $30.1 billion
spent from 1946 through 2005.  In Miami, which has been losing cruise-ship revenue to
rivals such as nearby  Fort Lauderdale , the issuance will finance
a $220 million deep-dredging project, a $1 billion tunnel system
to ease transportation to interstate highways and a $50 million
plan to link the port to rail lines.  The $5.25 billion canal expansion, to be completed in 2015,
will allow cargo ships carrying the equivalent of 13,000 20-foot
containers to traverse the 50-mile (80-kilometer) passage. The
vessels are more than double the size of the largest ships
currently passing through the locks.  “When Panama comes on line, we in Miami will be big-ship
ready,”  Bill Johnson , director of the port, said by telephone.  ‘Best Investment’  He dismissed concern that the rising debt load increases
risk for investors, calling the port “the best investment in
the world.”  The port relies on cruise operations for about 44 percent
of revenue, compared with 40 percent from cargo, offering
documents show.  Moody’s cut the seaport’s rating one level last month to
A3. By 2017, net revenue from the port won’t be able to cover
its bonds and debt issued by Miami-Dade County on its behalf,
said  David Jacobson , a Moody’s spokesman in New York. The port
may have to use reserves, Jacobson said.  The seaport’s municipal debt -- which includes revenue
bonds and general obligations issued by the county -- is about
$260 million, according to county documents. The county has also
loaned the seaport $325 million.  Extra Padding  The largest portion of Miami-Dade County seaport  debt  was
issued in 1995 and matures in October 2015, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The securities are also backed by National
Public Finance Guarantee Corp., a unit of  MBIA Inc. (MBI)   The bonds traded Aug. 23 at an average yield of 6.06
percent, or about 5.5 percentage points more than benchmark
munis, close to the biggest spread since February, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The planned work will deepen the harbor to at least 50 feet
(15 meters), from 42 feet, offering documents say. That will
allow the largest ships to dock either before or after crossing
through the canal. The vessels are becoming increasingly popular
for carrying goods from Asia or Europe to the U.S., said John C. Martin, president of Lancaster, Pennsylvania-based port and
shipping consultancy Martin Associates.  Miami would join New York, Norfolk and Baltimore as the
only East Coast ports with deep enough harbor channels to
accommodate that traffic.  Stoplight Void  The tunnel project will allow trucks to drive from the port
to the highway “without hitting a single stoplight,” Johnson
added. Raymond James & Associates Inc. is senior manager for the
negotiated bond sale. Institutional buyers are submitting bids
today, according to the port.  Moody’s also lowered the debt because cruise passengers
fell 6.1 percent last year, while revenue dropped 2.7 percent,
said Jacobson. Increased competition from other  Florida  ports is
partially responsible for the decline, according to offering
documents.  About 3.8 million cruise passengers visited Miami last
year, down from 4 million in 2011. Passengers on ships operated
by  Carnival Corp. (CCL) ,  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL)  and  Norwegian
Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. (NCLH)  generated the bulk of the port’s $45.2
million in cruise-related revenue last year, according to the
port’s 2012 annual statement. After covering operating expenses,
revenue from cruise operations, cargo shipping and fees such as
parking will repay the bonds.  A feasibility study ordered by the port forecast that
operating income will increase 10 percent annually through 2018,
to $77.8 million. The study, by Long Beach, California-based
Moffatt & Nichol, Inc., said contracts with major cruise lines
and increased cargo shipping after 2015 would add revenue.  Comfort Question  Some investors are waiting to see if the projections pan
out, said Doug Fowler, who helps manage $3 billion in munis at
Naples, Florida-based Wasmer Schroeder & Co.  “That would be a positive if it plays out the way that
people are projecting,” he said.  The seaport plans to issue $250 million in bonds next year,
followed by smaller sales in 2015 and 2016, said Frank Hinton,
director of Miami-Dade County’s bond-administration division.  The state and federal government have contributed to the
upgrades, providing more than $600 million in grants and loans
since 2010. Under Republican Governor  Rick Scott , taxpayers have
spent more $700 million on Florida’s 15 ports in the last three
years, said  John O’Brien , spokesman for the state Transportation
Department.  Rivals Move  The seaport, near downtown Miami, supports more than
200,000 jobs, according to the feasibility study.  The  Port Authority  of New York and  New Jersey  is also
deepening its harbor, as is Baltimore. Jacksonville, Florida,
needs about $733 million to deepen its port, according to the
U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers. The federal government would cover
about half.  East Coast ports have issued muni debt to finance upgrades
as Congress has struggled to find the money.  In Miami, state grants and local debt have financed the
bulk of the renovation. Scott, 60, directed $77 million to the
port for dredging in 2011, saying at the time that the state
couldn’t wait for federal funding.  That has put Miami ahead of its competition, Johnson said.  “Everything is on schedule, everything is on budget,” he
said.  Localities from  Virginia  to California are set to sell $6.4
billion in long-term debt this week, the most since the week
ended Aug. 9.  Market Week  Benchmark 10-year munis yield about  3.14 percent , close to
the highest since April 2011. The  interest rate  compares with
 2.91 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 108 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  New York State Urban Development Corp. plans to sell about
$758 million in personal income-tax revenue bonds through
competitive bids as soon as today to finance transportation
projects, including highways and bridges, sale documents show.
The debt, backed by revenue from wage levies, matures over 20
years and is rated AAA by  Standard & Poor’s , its top grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  