-- Israel Chemicals Gains on Cartel Resolution Bets: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-09-10T10:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/israel-chemicals-gains-on-cartel-resolution-bets-tel-aviv-mover.html
Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  rose for a
second day, surging to a three-week high on bets a pact dispute
that threatened support of potash prices will soon be resolved.  The  shares  of the potash- and fertilizer-manufacturer
advanced 5.2 percent to 27.78 shekels, the highest level since
Aug. 20, at 1:15 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The stock has risen 12
percent in two days, paring a 38 percent decline this year. The
benchmark TA-25 Index  advanced  1.6 percent.  Billionaires Mikhail Gutseriev and Vladimir Evtushenkov are
studying a possible purchase of a stake in OAO Uralkali, the
world’s largest potash producer, from billionaire investor
 Suleiman Kerimov , Forbes’s Russian edition said yesterday.
Kerimov’s exit could bring about a change in strategy at
Uralkali, which in July announced its departure from a potash
marketing venture with Belarus that controlled more than 40
percent of global exports, Kevin Whyte, an analyst at VTB
Capital in Moscow, said yesterday.  “There is speculation that maybe the cartel will be
restored,” Guil Bashan, an analyst at IBI-Israel Brokerage &
Investments Ltd. in Tel Aviv said by phone today. “This would
be a positive for potash producers.”  Israel Chemicals shares have been the worst performers on
the benchmark gauge this year after  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc.  scrapped a proposed takeover in April and as Uralkali said
July 30 it will ramp up to full production capacity, raising
concern of a price war on the fertilizer.  Israel Corp. (ILCO) , which has a 52.29 percent stake in the
company, advanced 4.9 percent to 1,642 shekels, bringing its
two-day gain to 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  