-- Italy Joins Netherlands in Qualifying for Soccer World Cup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-11T06:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/italy-joins-netherlands-in-qualifying-for-2014-soccer-world-cup.html
The Netherlands and Italy became
the first European teams to qualify for soccer’s 2014  World Cup ,
while Germany and  Switzerland  moved closer to berths.  The Netherlands won 2-0 last night in Andorra to guarantee
finishing as the top team in qualifying Group D, while Italy’s
come-from-behind 2-1 home win over the  Czech Republic  secured
first place in Group B.  The winners of each of the nine European groups qualify for
next year’s 32-team tournament in Brazil, with the best eight
runners-up going into a playoff for the remaining four slots.
There are two rounds of qualifying games left.  Germany and Switzerland are both five points ahead in their
groups after winning, England’s 0-0 draw in Ukraine gave it a
one-point lead and France beat Belarus 4-2 to pull even on
points with world and European champion  Spain .  The Netherlands booked its place in Brazil as  Robin van Persie  scored four minutes apart early in the second half to
down Andorra. The win moves the Dutch an unassailable eight
points ahead of Hungary, which took over second place by routing
Estonia 5-1.  Turkey  beat Romania 2-0 leaving both one point
behind the Hungarians.  Italy came from behind in Turin to secure its 18th World
Cup appearance with two games to spare. Libor Kozak put the
Czechs in front in the 19th minute before Giorgio Chiellini tied
the score early in the second half.  Mario Balotelli  then gave Italy the lead with a penalty
kick in the 54th minute after being taken down by Theodor Gebre
Selassie. Italy has 20 points, seven more than  Bulgaria , which
won 2-1 at Malta. Denmark is a point further back in third place
after a 1-0 win against  Armenia .  Five-Point Leads  Per Mertesacker, Mesut Ozil and  Thomas Mueller  scored as
Germany beat the Faroe Islands 3-0 to stay five points clear in
Group C ahead of Sweden, which won 1-0 in Kazakhstan. Austria
remained three points behind the Swedes with a 1-0 home win
against Ireland.  In Group E, Fabian Schaer scored both goals as Switzerland
beat Norway 2-0 to move to 18 points. Iceland climbed into
second place with 13 points with a 2-1 win over Albania, while
 Slovenia  jumped up to third on 12 points after winning 2-0 in
Cyprus.  England’s scoreless draw in Ukraine was enough to move it
to the head of Group H with 16 points, one more than Montenegro
and Ukraine. Poland has 13 points after a 5-1 win in San Marino.  Franck Ribery scored two of France’s four second-half goals
in its win against Belarus in Gomel. The French ended a run of
five straight games without a goal and pulled even with Spain,
which has played one fewer game in Group I. Finland beat Georgia
1-0 in the group’s other match.  Russia Takes Lead  Russia defeated Israel 3-1 in  St. Petersburg  to take the
lead in Group F. Russia has 18 points, one more than Portugal,
with two matches remaining. Luxembourg beat Northern Ireland 3-2
for its first World Cup qualifying win in five years.  Bosnia-Herzegovina scored twice in the final 20 minutes to
win 2-1 at Slovakia and remain tied in Group G with Greece,
which beat Latvia 1-0, on 19 points. Bosnia tops the standings
on goal difference. Lithuania beat Liechtenstein 2-0.  Scotland won 2-1 in Macedonia and Serbia beat Wales 3-0 in
a pair of games featuring eliminated teams in Group A.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  