-- Italian Economy Shrinks More Than Initially Estimated
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-09-10T08:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/italy-contracted-in-second-quarter-more-than-initially-reported.html
The Italian economy shrank more
than initially estimated in the second quarter as rising exports
failed to offset a continued slump in consumer demand amid the
longest recession since World War II.   Gross domestic product  dropped 0.3 percent from the
previous three months, national statistics institute Istat said
in  Rome  today. That compares with the Aug. 6 preliminary reading
of a 0.2 percent contraction.  Consumer spending  declined 0.4
percent, with sales abroad increasing 1.2 percent.  Confidence among Italian executives and households
strengthened in August amid rising industrial output and
optimism on efforts by Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s cabinet to
revive the euro region’s third-biggest economy. Italian bond
yields have risen this month on concern about the stability of
the government, with the 10-year yield rising above Spain’s
today for the first time in 18 months.  “The latest indicators are consistent with gradual
improvement: the decline in output should come to a halt in the
coming months,”  Bank of Italy  Governor Ignazio Visco said today
in a speech. “The downside risks to this scenario are
compounded by investors’ concern about possible political
instability.”  Italian Yields  Italian bond yields have increased amid speculation a vote
on whether to expel  Silvio Berlusconi  from  Italy ’s Senate will
destabilize the coalition government. The former premier said on
Aug. 30 that his People of Liberty Party may withdraw its
support for the government if he is ousted from Parliament.  Spanish 10-year yields fell seven basis points to 4.469
percent as of 9:40 a.m.  London  time. Similar-maturity Italian
yields declined four basis points to 4.477 percent. The last
time Spain’s yields were below Italy’s was March 2012.  “The political turmoil comes hand in hand with a still
uncertain economic scenario,” Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at
Newedge Group in London, said in a note to investors.  Italy’s  unemployment  rate fell for a second month in July
to 12 percent. Still, joblessness remains close to the 12.2
recorded in May, the highest since series began in 1977.  Letta’s government eased the budget austerity policies that
Italy passed under his predecessor  Mario Monti  in 2011 and 2012
to fight  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. Last month his cabinet
approved a measure to cancel the payment of a controversial
property levy on primary residences due this year and said it
will overhaul the taxation of real-estate starting from 2014.  In the second quarter, the economy contracted 2.1 percent
from a year ago, Istat said in today’s report. That’s more than
the 2 percent drop initially estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  