-- Japan Readies Stimulus to Cushion Blow of Sales-Tax Increase
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2013-09-10T09:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/japan-prepares-stimulus-to-cushion-impact-of-sales-tax-increase.html
Japan will prepare a stimulus
package this month to counter the blow to the world’s third
biggest economy from a planned  sales-tax  increase.  “Prime Minister Shinzo Abe ordered that an economic
package be compiled by the end of September,” Finance Minister
Taro Aso told reporters in  Tokyo  today. “Sufficient stimulus is
needed so that if the tax is increased as planned, it doesn’t
break the economy.”  Abe will decide Oct. 1 whether to go ahead with an increase
in the levy, which would help the government deal with the
world’s largest debt burden. Increasing the tax could push the
economy into contraction, damaging an effort to end 15 years of
deflation and strengthening resistance to Abe’s plans to boost
growth by cutting regulations and opening Japan more to
international trade.  “Politically, it’s unavoidable to have an economic package
to cushion the impact of a sales-tax increase,” said  Yuichi Kodama , chief economist at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. in
Tokyo. “If public support for Abe’s Cabinet falls due to a
higher sales tax, it would be difficult for the administration
to push through the growth strategy.”  The government will probably need a supplementary budget of
about 4 trillion to 5 trillion yen ($50 billion) to pay for the
package, Kodama said.  Austerity  Additional fiscal spending will put at risk Japan’s effort
to cut its primary budget balance deficit by the fiscal year
starting in April 2015 to half the level in 2010, said  Azusa Kato , economist at BNP Paribas SA.  “Having said that, we expect the government to prepare as
much as 10 trillion yen in such stimulus, half of which will be
in public works spending,” Kato said. “We expect corporate
capital spending tax cuts to be included.”  The primary balance deficit will amount to 2 percent of
gross domestic product in fiscal 2020 unless the government can
further improve its finances, according to Cabinet Office
documents released in August. The primary balance is net
government borrowing excluding interest payments.  A package of more than 2 trillion yen may be needed to
counter the effects of a sales-tax increase, Economy Minister
Akira Amari said yesterday.  Contraction  Japan ’s economy will contract an annualized 4.4 percent in
the three months starting April after six straight quarters of
expansion, before returning to growth, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said last week the BOJ could
take appropriate steps if a higher sales tax jeopardizes the
central bank’s 2 percent inflation target.  Under legislation passed last year by Abe’s predecessor,
the sales tax will rise to 8 percent in April from 5 percent
now, and then increase to 10 percent in October 2015. Abe, who
will make a final call on the plan, will consider business
confidence data on Oct. 1 and second-quarter economic data in
making his decision.  Japan’s gross domestic product grew more than initially
estimated in the second quarter as business investment rose for
the first time in six quarters, the Cabinet Office said
yesterday.  Even with a higher levy, the central bank forecast the
economy will grow 2.8 percent this fiscal year through March,
and 1.3 percent the following year, according to the median
estimate of the board members  released  in July.  Japan’s outstanding public debt including borrowings rose
to a record 1,009.6 trillion yen as of June 30, the  finance
ministry  said last month. Larger than the economies of  Germany ,
 France  and the U.K. combined, the amount includes 830.5 trillion
yen in  government bonds .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  