-- Jeweler Pandora Charms Investors With 75% Stock Revival
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-09-10T15:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/jeweler-pandora-charms-investors-with-76-stock-revival.html
Diamonds, it’s been said, are
forever. That’s far too long for  Pandora A/S, (PNDORA)  which is counting
on women to update their jewelry boxes several times a year with
charms crafted from silver, gold, and gemstones.  The Danish jeweler, which has gone from stock market
darling to disaster to darling again since its 2010  initial
public offering,  is taking a page from fast-fashion retailers
like Zara, which introduces designs as often as twice a week.  Pandora is now adding collections -- the latest features
woodland nymphs and unicorns for fall -- seven times annually,
up from twice last year. At the same time, Chief Executive
Officer Allan Leighton is cutting prices and opening new stores.  “Freshness is very important, that’s a lesson we’ve
learned,” Leighton, the former head of Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s
Asda supermarket chain in the U.K., said in a telephone
interview. “People like newness.”  Pandora  stock,  which jumped 25 percent on its first day of
trading then lost more than four-fifths of its value within a
year, is up 79 percent since the start of 2013. The shares rose
4.9 percent to 222.30 Danish kroner ($39.51) at the close of
trading in Copenhagen today, the steepest gain since May 14 and
above the IPO price of 210 kroner.  Helped by new products such as a Mother’s Day bracelet and
a Sydney Opera House charm, Pandora’s  sales  climbed 47 percent
in the first half of 2013. The company has increased its full-year revenue forecast to a record 8 billion kroner, up from 6.65
billion kroner last year. The average of  analyst estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg is for sales of 8.2 billion kroner.  Zooey Deschanel  Leighton, 60, expects Pandora to open about 175 outlets
this year, bringing the total to more than 1,000. And Pandora’s
average selling price per item declined to 129 kroner in 2012
from 134 kroner in 2011.  The CEO, who helped turn around Asda before selling it for
$10.8 billion in 1999, is expanding production in  Thailand  and
has introduced an online-only magazine. The latest issue
features actress  Zooey Deschanel  on the cover and gives readers
tips on combining Pandora jewelry with clothes from outlets such
as H&M and Topshop.  The jeweler has also introduced cruises in the Caribbean
that cost as much as $2,485 per week. Some 200 fans signed up
last year for the second such trip, where they attended
workshops, chatted about charms and shopped for jewelry while
visiting St. Thomas and St. Maarten.  Pandora, founded by a Danish goldsmith and his wife in
1982, took the jewelry world by storm in 2000 with its update of
the classic charm bracelet. An initial collection of 15 charms
like strawberries, dice and ladybugs has expanded to around 700,
including a  royal baby charm  this year to mark the birth of the
future heir to the U.K. throne.  Anniversary Gift  Collecting Pandora charms is “exciting and addictive,”
said Leann Wu, who runs a jewelry blog called  Charms Addict.  “I
thought I was going to stop after just one bracelet, but now I
have many, many more.”  The charms have become an easy choice for men seeking to
impress their partner with a birthday or anniversary gift.  “Pandora bracelets are perfect and I want one,” fan
Sydney Bruno said on her Twitter feed. “They’re personalized
and thoughtful and that’s the best kind of gift.”  Soeren Loentoft Hansen, an analyst at  Sydbank A/S (SYDB)  in
Denmark, said that while it is risky to have success tied to one
type of product, it is probably the right way to go for Pandora.
The new collections and lower prices should help bring customers
back to stores, he said.  “A company should do what they are best at,” Hansen said.
“And they have a competitive advantage with these charm
bracelets.”  Facebook Followers  Pandora’s enduring popularity is illustrated by the size of
its fanbase. The Pandora  Facebook account  has more than 1.8
million followers and the company’s loyalty program has about 4
million members.  The fall offering, named Enchanted Forest, went on sale
last week and features birds, leaves, owls, and other items
intended to evoke autumnal woodlands. For the winter season, the
jeweler has created a collection that includes a $45 mittens
dangle and a $55 snowflake pendant that will hit stores Nov. 4.  “We are still sometimes inconsistent,” CEO Leighton said.
“But the most important thing is we are absolutely moving in
the right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  