-- JPMorgan Board, Mexico Tax Reform, FDIC-Citi: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/jpmorgan-board-mexico-tax-reform-fdic-citi-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the bank that
incurred a $6.2 billion trading loss last year, will elect Linda
B. Bammann and Michael A. Neal to its board and named Lee R.
Raymond as lead independent director, giving him more powers.  Raymond, formerly presiding director, will have authority
to call meetings at any time, approve agendas and add agenda
items, and will guide the board in considering the succession of
chief executive officers, New York-based JPMorgan said yesterday
in a statement.  Investors in May rejected a proposal to split the chairman
and CEO roles, which advisory firms such as Institutional
Shareholder Services said would improve oversight. The bank said
yesterday that the board will hold executive sessions without
company management at every regular board meeting, make members
available to meet with major shareholders and won’t rotate the
lead independent director position every year.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, expects to elect
Bammann to the board on Sept. 16 and Neal will join in January
after he retires from his current position, according to the
statement.  JPMorgan is contending with criminal investigations of its
energy-trading and mortgage-backed securities operations. The
firm also faces U.S. probes of its anti-money-laundering
safeguards, foreclosures, credit-card collections and the London
Whale debacle.  The bank has made bolstering regulatory compliance and
internal controls its priority this year, Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon, has said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Mexico’s Pena Nieto Seeks Capital Gains, High Earners Taxes  Mexico ’s President Enrique Pena Nieto is proposing taxes on
capital gains, sugary drinks and the nation’s highest earners in
a bid to wean Latin America’s second-largest economy off its
dependence on oil revenue.  The bill sent to congress Sept. 8 along with the
president’s 2014 budget proposal would place a 10 percent tax on
individuals’ profits from stock sales and dividends, raise the
maximum personal income tax rate to 32 percent from 30 percent
and avoid taxing food and medicine. The measures would help
offset a proposed lower tax burden for state-owned oil producer
Petroleos Mexicanos, or Pemex, and help pay for universal social
security and unemployment insurance.  Ratings companies will probably be disappointed by the
decision not to tax food and medicine, while some government
bond investors may be hurt as additional debt issuance boosts
supply of the securities, said  Alonso Cervera , the chief Mexico
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG.  The tax bill would increase government revenue, according
to the bill.  Pena Nieto has pledged to boost tax collection as part of a
series of economic overhauls to speed up growth that’s 40
percent  slower  than the regional average over the past five
years. Income from Pemex crude sales funds about a third of the
 federal budget .  The reform would end a tax benefit, known as fiscal
consolidation, which allows holding companies to postpone paying
taxes when their subsidiaries post losses. Companies with the
largest deferred tax assets, and thus may be the most affected,
are  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, Cemex SAB,  Arca Continental SAB (AC*) ,  Empresas
ICA SAB (ICA*)  and  Grupo Bimbo SAB (BIMBOA) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a
Sept. 6 research note.  For more, click here.  Tin Smelters in Indonesia Pushing for JFX Trade Permits  Smelters and  Jakarta Futures Exchange  are expected to meet
with the Trade Ministry this week to push for permits to trade
physical tin contracts, said M.B. Gunawan, director and general
manager at PT Stanindo Inti Perkasa, a metals manufacturer.  Smelters stopped operations and won’t resume until the
Futures Exchange gets trading permits or the government delays
the rule, Gunawan said by phone from Jakarta yesterday.  Miners halted work because they can’t sell ore, he said.  Smelters met last week. Most are not interested in joining
the Indonesia Commodity and Derivatives Exchange, Gunawan said.
They prefer the Futures Exchange because they can show their
brand and interact directly with buyers, he said. The Futures
Exchange will display smelters’ brands on the trading system,
according to Gunawan.  Compliance Action  FDIC to Sell $2.42 Billion of Citigroup Debt to End Rescue Stake  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is selling $2.42
billion of bonds issued by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in a transaction that
will eliminate U.S. government holdings in the bank linked to
the 2008 financial crisis.  Citigroup exchanged the subordinated notes due 2025 and
2043 to the FDIC for other securities used to pay the government
for $301 billion of asset guarantees, the New York-based bank
said yesterday in a regulatory filing. Citigroup won’t receive
any proceeds from the resale to the public.  The offering is the latest step to end taxpayer support for
Citigroup, which took more bailout assistance than any other
U.S. lender.  “When the transaction concludes, no U.S. government entity
will continue to hold any securities in Citi issued as a result
of the financial crisis,” Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for the
lender, said by e-mail. The government’s investment realized a
return of “more than $13 billion,” he said.  Citigroup issued a combined $7.06 billion in preferred
shares to the FDIC and the Treasury as consideration for the
loss-sharing protection, provided to help shore up investor
confidence in the bank during the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression. The Treasury said in February that it
expected to receive $894 million in proceeds from a similar
offering.  David Barr, a spokesman at the FDIC, declined to comment on
the transaction.  Hewlett-Packard Says Polish Regulators Join Bribery Probe  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  said the Polish Anti-Corruption Bureau
joined an investigation by U.S. regulators into potential
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by the computer
maker.  The probe, along with the U.S. Department of Justice and
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, centers on an employee
of Hewlett-Packard’s Polska unit and “public sector
transactions in  Poland ,” according to a regulatory  filing 
yesterday.  The agencies are also investigating “public-sector
transactions” in  Russia , Mexico and other countries that
weren’t named, according to the filing. The Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, or FCPA, makes it illegal for U.S. business
people to bribe foreign officials.  Courts  Reserve Primary Fund Settles Shareholder Suit for $54.9 Million  Bruce R. Bent II, president of the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary money-market fund that failed during the financial
crisis, agreed to settle a shareholder lawsuit in an accord
worth about $54.9 million.  Bent and his father, Bruce R. Bent, are among defendants
that agreed to pay $10 million in cash, drop their claim for
$42.4 million from a court-established expense fund, and to
allow $2.5 million from the expense fund to go to shareholders.
None of the defendants admitted wrongdoing as part of the
proposed settlement to end a class-action lawsuit led by Third
Avenue Institutional International Value Fund LP.  The suit was filed in September 2008, two days after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt in the midst of the worst
U.S. economic crisis since the Great Depression. The Reserve
Primary money-market fund held $785 million in Lehman debt. A
run on the fund triggered its failure when it “broke the buck”
by failing to maintain a $1-a-share net asset value.  A federal jury found Bruce Bent II negligent on one claim
of violating a securities law. His father was absolved of all
claims in a suit by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The fund’s closing sparked an investor run on similar money
funds, contributing to a freeze among global credit markets.  The settlement is subject to court approval.  The case is Reserve Primary Fund Securities & Derivative
Class Action Litigation, 08-cv-08060. The SEC case is SEC v.
Reserve Management Co., 09-cv-04346, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Interviews  Secret Swiss Accounts No Longer Safe Tax Dodge, Prosecutor Says  Taxpayers who still believe they can hide secret Swiss bank
accounts from the Internal Revenue Service are “beyond
foolish,” the top U.S. tax prosecutor said as a five-year
crackdown expands to new offshore havens.  The enforcement drive has forced a “remarkable” change in
the ability of the U.S. to find secret accounts in Switzerland,
the world’s largest offshore financial center with about $2.2
trillion of assets, said Kathryn Keneally, assistant attorney
general in the Justice Department’s tax division.  “If someone had an account in Switzerland, it is beyond
foolish to think that that account is going to remain secret,”
said Keneally, 55. “In the last five years, we’ve seen a
remarkable change in our ability to get information concerning
Swiss bank accounts. It’s extraordinary. Switzerland is no
longer a good place to hide assets for tax reasons.”  Keneally, in her first interview since taking the job in
April 2012, said a new U.S. amnesty program for Swiss banks to
disclose how they aided tax evasion puts taxpayers and offshore
enablers at risk of prosecution. Since 2009, the U.S. has
prosecuted 68 U.S. taxpayers, three Swiss banks, and 30 bankers,
lawyers, and advisers. Another 38,000 Americans moved $5.5
billion to the U.S. and avoided prosecution by saying who helped
them offshore.  Fourteen firms are under criminal investigation. On Aug.
29, the U.S. announced a program for other Swiss banks to avoid
charges. They must pay penalties and disclose their cross-border
activities, among other measures. Banks that don’t come forward
by the Dec. 31 deadline could face criminal charges, Keneally
said.  “We have investigations and activities that will be coming
in other parts of the world that I can’t comment on right now,”
she said.  For more, click here.  U.S. Economy Needs Foreign Direct Investment, Wolf Says  Robert Wolf, chief executive officer of 32 Advisors LLC and
former chairman of UBS AG’s Americas unit, talked about U.S.
banking regulation and the market outlook.  Wolf spoke with  Tom Keene , Sara Eisen and Scarlet Fu on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  