-- Knicks’ Anthony Says Club to Lose Brooklyn Borough to Nets’ Fans
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   M i l l e r
-- 2013-09-10T18:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/knicks-anthony-says-club-to-lose-brooklyn-borough-to-nets-fans.html
New York Knicks’ All-Star forward
Carmelo Anthony said the next generation of National Basketball
Association fans in his  Brooklyn  birthplace will root for the
Nets.  “We all know from the Jackie Robinson days, that was the
last time we actually had something to believe in,” Anthony
said at the Bloomberg Sports Business Summit hosted by  Bloomberg
Link  in New York. “Now, with the young kids that are coming up
these days, that’s their team. They grow up under the Brooklyn
Nets and that’s their team.”  The Nets, owned by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ,
moved to New York’s most-populated borough last season from
 Newark , New Jersey. Major League Baseball’s Brooklyn Dodgers
moved to Los Angeles in 1958, two years after Robinson retired,
leaving a 55-year major professional sports team void in the
borough.  Madison Square Garden, the Knicks’ home in Manhattan, is a
six-mile drive from the Nets’ Barclays Center.  With the move, Brooklyn made roster additions that
increased the team’s winning percentage to .542 last season,
when it finished five games behind the Knicks for the Atlantic
Division crown, from .333 in 2011-12.  Coach Kidd  In June, 10-time All-Star guard Jason Kidd retired after 19
seasons in the NBA, the final one with the Knicks, and was hired
to coach the Nets. Brooklyn traded for veterans Kevin Garnett,
Paul Pierce and Jason Terry from the Boston Celtics and signed
free-agent forward Andrei Kirilenko.  “I love it,” Anthony said about the Nets’ move and roster
changes. “I think it’s great for sports, I think it’s great for
New York and I think it’s great for us as a Knicks’ organization
to have somebody that we can compete with on a consistent basis.
That is going to be the best rivalry in basketball for a long,
long time.”  Among New York boroughs, Brooklyn has a population of 2.5
million people, followed by Queens at 2.2 million,  Manhattan  at
1.6 million, the Bronx at 1.4 million and Staten Island at
469,000, according to Brooklyn.com, which cites 2010 census
data.  The NBA rivalries will extend into households in his old
neighborhood of Red Hook, as younger fans grow up, said Anthony,
a 29-year-old who won the league scoring title last season at
28.7 points per game.  “It’s going to be a funny thing to see the kids growing up
there, how they convert from Knicks’ fans to Nets’ fans,” he
said. “The household might be Knicks’ fans and the kids might
be Nets’ fans, so it’s a rivalry everywhere, in the households,
on the basketball courts, in the streets, in the boroughs. It’s
everywhere, and it makes it fun for the game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  