-- Nadal’s 13th Grand Slam Win Enhances Legacy Among Tennis Greats
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-09-10T04:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/nadal-beats-djokovic-at-u-s-open-for-third-in-tennis-slam-wins.html
Rafael Nadal ’s latest U.S. Open
victory and 13th Grand Slam title moved him into third place on
the men’s career list. It left his opponent, the world’s No. 1
player, contemplating the Spaniard’s place in tennis history.  Second-seeded Nadal rallied from a break down in the third
set to beat top-seeded Novak Djokovic 6-2, 3-6, 6-4, 6-1 last
night to capture his second U.S. Open title. He’s 22-0 this
season on hard courts, which once were considered a weakness,
one year after a knee injury sidelined him for seven months.  The victory moves Nadal past Australian  Roy Emerson  into
sole possession of third place on the men’s Grand Slam singles
list behind  Roger Federer  (17) of Switzerland and  Pete Sampras 
(14) of the U.S. The win came one day after  Serena Williams  took
the women’s title for her 17th Grand Slam singles title,
enhancing her own legacy among the sport’s greats.  “Thirteen Grand Slams for a guy who is 27 years old is
incredible,” Djokovic told reporters. “He’s definitely one of
the best tennis players ever to play the game, looking at his
achievement and his age at this moment. He still has a lot of
years to play. That’s all I can say.”  The match included a 54-shot rally that gave Djokovic a
service break in the second set, and turned again in the third
when Nadal saved triple-break point at 4-4 and went on to hold
serve. That set ended when Djokovic sent a backhand long, and
Nadal crouched at the baseline pumping his fist to the approval
of the 25,101 fans at the National Tennis Center in  New York .  “I tried to keep fighting for every ball, be focused in
every moment,” Nadal said in a news conference. “I know if I
am only one break behind, I will have my chance. Then you can
convert or not, and I did.”  Unforced Errors  Victory was soon to follow. Nadal broke serve twice in the
fourth set and converted his first match point when Djokovic
sent a forehand into the net after 3 hours, 21 minutes of play.
Djokovic hit 46 winners to Nadal’s 27, and had 53 unforced
errors to 20 for the champion.  Nadal earned $3.6 million for the title, including a $1
million bonus for winning two hard-court tournaments leading up
to the season’s final Grand Slam. The left-hander’s career
earnings are $60.5 million, second behind Federer at $77.9
million.  Nadal’s brand also remains in Federer’s shadow, according
to Darin David, a senior director in the sports marketing group
of Dallas-based The Marketing Arm.  Nadal is known by 40 percent of U.S. consumers compared
with Federer’s 60 percent, according to The Marketing Arm’s
 Celebrity DBI , an index that measures endorsement qualities.
Nadal, who constantly fidgets during matches and refuses to step
on the court’s white lines between games, also trails Federer in
metrics such as appeal and endorsement potential.  Endorsements Lacking  “With all of Nadal’s flair and quirks, it’s surprising
that more brands haven’t been willing to work with him,” David
said in an e-mail. “Part of the issue has been that Federer has
taken the lion’s share of endorsements as the epitome of class
in the sport.”  Federer makes $65 million annually in endorsements,
according to Forbes Magazine’s 2013 valuations, more than three
times Nadal’s $21 million. The 32-year-old from  Switzerland  was
the No. 7 seed at this year’s tournament, his worst at the Open
since 2002, and lost in straight sets in the fourth round to
19th-seeded Tommy Robredo of  Spain .  Nadal now is four Grand Slam titles behind Federer’s
record, and the Spaniard is five years younger. They are the
only active men with a career Grand Slam -- at least one win at
each of the four majors.  All-Court Winner  The winner of a record eight championships on the red clay
of the  French Open , Nadal continued his evolution to an all-court winner in New York. He won the 2009 Australian Open on
hard courts, and has two titles on grass at Wimbledon.  Nadal withdrew from the Australian Open this year due to a
stomach virus and missed seven months, including the 2012 London
Olympics and last year’s  U.S. Open , while battling tendinitis in
his left knee. He is 60-3 this year, having returned to the
court in February, and has 10 titles -- bringing his career
total to 60.  “I never thought that something like this could happen,”
Nadal said. “I just was excited to be back on tour.”  Last night was the 37th match between Nadal and Djokovic,
who have combined to win 12 of the past 15 Grand Slam
tournaments. The 37 meetings are the most of any men’s rivalry
in the professional era that began in 1968, one more than  Ivan Lendl  and  John McEnroe . Nadal leads the series  22-15 .  Three Finals  Djokovic was seeking his second U.S. Open championship and
his seventh Grand Slam title. The 26-year-old Serbian reached
the final of three major tournaments in 2013 for the third
consecutive year and will retain the No. 1 spot in the ATP World
Tour rankings, which he’s held since taking the top spot from
Federer last October.  “At the end of the day I have to be satisfied with a
final,” Djokovic said. “It was obvious that in the important
moments he played better tennis and that’s why he deserved to
win.”  Williams, the women’s top seed, won her fifth U.S. Open
singles title two days ago, defeating  Victoria Azarenka  of
Belarus 7-5, 6-7 (6-8), 6-1 in another match of the top two
players in the world rankings.  It was the 17th career Grand Slam singles title for the 31-year-old American, leaving her five behind Steffi Graf’s record
of 22 in the professional era. She is one behind  Chris Evert  and
 Martina Navratilova .  Nadal said yesterday that he is not satisfied with his
Grand Slam title haul.  “Thirteen is an amazing number,” he said. “I’m going to
keep working hard, keep doing my things to have more chances in
the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  