-- Nasdaq CFO Says Complexity Is Obstacle to Smooth Markets
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-09-10T19:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/nasdaq-cfo-says-complexity-is-obstacle-to-smooth-markets.html
The complexity of U.S. stock-market
structure is the “biggest obstacle” to ensuring systems run
without failing,  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. Chief Financial Officer
Lee Shavel said today.  Shavel said that the complicated nature of modern markets,
together with competition between participants, makes it hard to
achieve technological uniformity and create the certainty that
would prevent outages such as the one that occurred on Aug. 22,
when Nasdaq-listed stocks halted trading for three hours.  The outage was caused by a crash in the Nasdaq server that
handles sending out price quotes. While the direct cause of the
crash is unknown, Nasdaq said its system seems to have been
overloaded by messages sent from the NYSE Arca exchange. U.S.
stock trading is fragmented across more than 50 exchanges and
alternative venues.  Industry discussions should result in “a compliance system
that allows market participants and other exchange participants
to have greater certainty in the types of situations that we’ll
have to deal with and to make certain that we are anticipating
as broadly as possible what may happen so that we’re prepared to
address them quickly,” Shavel said at the Barclays Global
Financial Services Conference in New York.  SEC Meeting  The outage led to a call by the Securities and Exchange
Commission for the heads of U.S. exchanges to attend a private
meeting in  Washington  on Thursday.  “The Commission is determined to enhance the safeguards
necessary for strong market systems,” said SEC Chairman Mary Jo
White when she announced the meeting on Aug. 22. “Today’s
interruption in trading, while resolved before the end of the
day, was nonetheless serious and should reinforce our collective
commitment to addressing technological vulnerabilities of
exchanges and other market participants.”  In his comments today, Shavel minimized the role that the
technology breakdown played in the length of the halt.  “The delay in restarting trading was not a technology
issue, it was driven by the fact that we wanted to make  certain
that all of the market participants, the exchange, the member
firms were ready for that restart,” he said.  Nasdaq’s stock rose 1.1 percent to $31.01 as of 3:19 p.m.
in New York today, still down 1.7 percent since the close on
Aug. 21. Shares closed 3.4 percent lower after trading restarted
on Aug. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  