-- NBA Plans to Expand Streaming of Games in China, Silver Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-09-10T15:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/nba-plans-to-expand-streaming-of-games-in-china-silver-says.html
The  National Basketball Association 
soon will announce plans to increase streaming of league games
online in China, NBA Deputy Commissioner  Adam Silver  said today.  “Beginning this season, we’re going to be streaming a game
a day” in a deal with  Sina Corp. (SINA) , owner of the Weibo
microblogging service that is the largest Chinese equivalent of
Twitter, Silver said at the Bloomberg Sports Business Summit
hosted by Bloomberg Link in New York.  Sina, the NBA’s official Internet partner in China that
first signed a deal with the league in 2010, also will have
reporters covering each of the NBA’s 30 teams and produce a
weekly show, said Silver, who succeeds  David Stern  as
commissioner on Feb. 1.  The NBA is trying to increase interest in basketball in the
world’s most populated country, where the league and its players
are followed on Weibo by 60 million people, according to Silver.  During a recent trip to  South Africa  with the NBA’s
Basketball Without Borders program, Silver said, he told league
employees in Johannesburg that their focus should be “mobile
first.”  “It’s not repurposed programming but programming designed
for mobile,” Silver said, highlighting the time differences
abroad that keep fans there from watching U.S.-based games.
“That’s our opportunity in China, in Africa, and also India.”  Sale Price  The Sacramento Kings were the most-recently sold NBA
franchise, going in May for $534 million and the promise to
build a new arena to a group led by  Tibco Software Inc. (TIBX)  founder
 Vivek Ranadive .  Though there are no NBA teams for sale now, Silver said his
current frustration, and future focus, will be to increase
prospective buyers’ understanding of how valuable the franchises
will become as interest in the sport grows in other countries.
He commended Ranadive, the league’s first Indian-born owner, for
understanding that value.  “He saw the best deal in sports as the least expensive NBA
team because he was buying 1/30th of our global prospects,”
Silver said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  