-- NCAA Football Restructure Seen Inevitable by Athletic Directors
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-09-10T17:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/ncaa-football-restructure-seen-inevitable-by-athletic-directors.html
The richest college football
programs almost certainly will be allowed to spend more money on
athletes once their national governing body rewrites rules in
the coming months, according to a panel of sports administrators
and marketers.  Paying players -- from small stipends that supplement their
scholarships, to  savings accounts  reimbursing them for use of
their images -- has played a big role in the call for rules
changes in the last year.  It’s unlikely specific pay proposals will be resolved until
the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  decides whether to
create a new division for elite programs, adopt rules that allow
smaller programs to opt-in if they can afford it, or some other
governing structure, University of Notre Athletic Director  Jack
Swarbrick  said today.  “NCAA reform is going to come first,” Swarbrick said at
the Bloomberg Sports Business Summit hosted by  Bloomberg Link  in
 New York . “But I think on the heels of that, re-defining core
elements of the model will be the next thing on the agenda. This
is the central issue in college athletics right now.”  NCAA President  Mark Emmert  two years ago proposed giving
athletes a $2,000 stipend to help pay for living expenses not
covered by scholarships. Some schools are now saying it should
be as high as $4,000.  Rich-Poor  While the richer programs could afford the $500,000 to $1
million annual cost, many small programs couldn’t and voted it
down. Emmert plans a summit of Division I schools in January to
discuss athletic governance with hopes for making major changes
within a year.  Swarbrick said athletic departments with different business
models are all trying to play by the same rules and it isn’t
working.  “On one end, there are schools that are fully integrated
into the university, and on the other, it’s almost like
licensing the university name,” he said. “In any business
association, once members don’t have a common business model,
you have enormous tension.”  Mike Aresco, commissioner of the  American Athletic
Conference , said he’s concerned his conference may get left out
if a new division of elite programs is formed. The American
Athletic was formed from remnants of the  Big East  after that
conference’s smaller basketball members broke away.  ‘Share Goals’  “We are not the SEC or Big Ten,” he said. “We have to
make sure that if there is another division, people are
permitted to be in that division that share the goals, financial
resources and are committed to being at that level. We don’t
want exclusion.”  Ben Sutton, president of IMG College, said that once the
NCAA resolves its governance issues, the pay-for-play discussion
will go far beyond football.  “If you pay players, you are not going to pick out the
star quarterback and pay him,” Sutton said. “You are going to
pay the field hockey player, too. There is no way the government
won’t get involved if you don’t pay across the board.”  Aresco said a pay-model could evolve into star players
asking for more than their teammates and eventually dip into
high school sports.  “It’s a slippery slope,” he said. “You are getting into
workers comp, lawyers, etc. I think the collegiate model has
served the country very well. I don’t think we’d be a better
country without women’s sports, Title IX, Olympic sports. A wide
variety of students benefit from this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  