-- Neste Oil Surges to Five-Year High on Renewables: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-09-10T09:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/neste-oil-surges-to-five-year-high-on-renewables-helsinki-mover.html
Neste Oil Oyj (NES1V) , the best-performing
major European energy stock, jumped to its highest since July
2008 in Helsinki trading after saying full-year earnings will
exceed analyst estimates as renewable-fuel sales gain.  Neste rose 14 percent to 17.41 euros at 12:30 p.m.,
bringing this year’s advance to 78 percent in the best year-to-date performance among  Stoxx 600 Oil & Gas index  members. The
shares rallied as much as 17 percent, the most since Aug. 1.
Trading volume climbed above 1.8 million shares, more than
double the three-month average.  Finland’s only refiner is benefiting from higher renewable
fuel sales particularly in the North American markets, the
Espoo-based company said today. It increased its estimate for
the unit’s operating profit to more than 200 million euros ($265
million) from over 120 million euros.  “California will be an important market for Neste Oil’s
renewable diesel business,” analysts at Nordea Bank AB said in
a note. As Neste’s NExBTL product meets the state’s own
standards, it could sell about 290,000 metric tons this year of
the biodiesel there, or about 18 percent of total production,
the analysts said.  Neste said today its comparable operating profit for 2013
will exceed 530 million euros, 15 percent above the average
estimate of nine analysts in a Bloomberg  survey  and more than
any single estimate. The company’s comparable operating profit
excludes inventory changes and one-time items.  Biodiesel Demand  Dividends should be “back on the agenda” as investments
are complete and money is “flowing in,” they said. The company
has paid out 33.25 cents a share on average to investors during
the past four years, compared with an annual mean of 87.50 cents
in the four previous years. Neste will hold an  event  for
investors tomorrow in  London .  Neste is benefiting from increased demand for biodiesel.
The European Union has set a target to get at least 10 percent
of land-transport energy from renewable sources by 2020.  “We are clearly impressed by Neste Oil’s earning power
among European refiners,” Matteo Bonizzoni, an analyst at
Kepler Cheuvreux in Milan, said in a note to clients. The
guidance upgrade was mainly due to low palm oil prices and high
Renewable Identification Number prices in the U.S., he said.
Bonizzoni upgraded his  recommendation  to buy from hold, raising
the 12-month price target to 17 euros from 14 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  