-- Netflix Tops Record as Hastings Recovers From 2011 Gaffes
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-09-10T20:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/netflix-shares-hit-record-as-hastings-recovers-from-2011-gaffes.html
Netflix Inc. (SPX)  eclipsed its all-time
high set in mid-2011, capping a two-year recovery for Chief
Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  from marketing missteps that
angered customers and cratered the stock.  Netflix, which has more than tripled this year to lead the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, gained 6.4 percent to $313.06 at
the close in  New York . The previous  closing  high of $298.73 was
set on July 13, 2011. A day earlier, Netflix had raised prices
for users who wanted DVDs and streaming -- triggering a backlash
that cost the service 800,000 subscribers.  Hastings has won customers with exclusive deals for movies
from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , and kept
them hooked with original shows that have drawn 14 Emmy
nominations, including best drama for the political thriller
“House of Cards.” The company this week begins offering
streaming on  Virgin Media  cable systems in the U.K., the first
time Netflix has been integrated with a major pay-TV provider.  “That the cable industry might consider adding Netflix is
a big change in direction,” said Daniel Ernst, an analyst with
Hudson Square Research who recommends the stock.  The deal with Virgin Media opens a new avenue for Netflix
to expand through alliances with pay-TV distributors. Virgin is
part of cable billionaire  John Malone ’s Liberty Global Plc,
which has almost 22 million video subscribers worldwide. The
accord challenges the view that growth in streaming comes at the
expense of cable and satellite services.  Malone’s Validation  “Since John Malone owns Virgin Media, the market might
consider the move a major industry validation,” Ernst said in
an e-mail. Malone is also the largest shareholder in Charter
Communications Inc., with 3.9 million U.S. video subscribers  Global domination was far from investors’ minds after the
2011 pricing change and Hastings’s plan to cleave the older DVD-by-mail business into a separate company called Qwikster.
Customers revolted, and Netflix lost 800,000 accounts in one
quarter, leading to its biggest stock drop in seven years. While
the Qwikster plan was scrapped, the shares kept falling,
reaching a low of $53.80 in September 2012, an 82 percent drop.  Since then,  Los Gatos , California-based Netflix has clawed
its way back. Hastings held to the price increase while adding
new, exclusive programming and signing deals that will bring
“ Star Wars ” and Marvel movies from Disney. In addition to
“House of Cards,” a show starring  Kevin Spacey  that made its
debut on Feb. 1, Netflix introduced “Hemlock Grove” in April,
a revival of the former Fox comedy “Arrested Development” in
May, and women’s prison drama “Orange Is the New Black” from
 Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  in July.  Regaining Subscribers  The new programs and output deals have helped Hastings to
win back subscribers and add new ones. At its current stock
price, Netflix has a market value of $18.4 billion. With 38
million subscribers in 40 countries, the company accounts for
almost a third of all  Internet traffic  in  North America .  “House of Cards” collected nine nominations for the Emmy
Awards, which take place on Sept. 22. “Arrested Development”
received three, and “Hemlock Grove” got two.  Agreements for exclusive subscription streaming rights to
first-run films from Disney and Weinstein Co. take effect in
2016. An accord with DreamWorks Animation starts with “Turbo,”
which was released in theaters in July.  From an investing standpoint,  Carl Icahn  has been a big
winner. The value of his stake has increased more than fivefold
to about $1.73 billion in less than a year, based on regulatory
filings and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Icahn Stake  “We still own it, we haven’t sold a share,” Icahn, 77,
said yesterday in a Bloomberg TV interview. “I still think it’s
a good buy, but certainly it’s not what it was when it was
$58.”  Icahn paid more than $300 million for stocks and options
that he exercised in the second half of 2012, acquiring 5.54
million Netflix shares, or about a 9.4 percent stake, based on
data compiled by Bloomberg.  While investors have cheered Hastings, the CEO said it will
take three years to fully regain the confidence of customers.  “It wouldn’t take much to have the issue flare up again or
for us to lose trust,” Hastings said on a Jan. 23 conference
call with analysts. “We’ve still got a year and a half of
probation.”  Further Gains?  Most analysts don’t recommend buying the stock, which
trades at 229 times earnings, third-highest in the  S&P 500 .
Twenty-eight of the 36 analysts tracked by Bloomberg say sell or
hold the stock, while eight say buy.  Among the potential drawbacks: growing liabilities for
movies and TV shows, negative free  cash flow  as the company
invests in its expansion, and the challenge of reaching
Hastings’s goal of as many as 90 million U.S. subscribers, about
three times as many as Time Warner Inc.’s HBO.  Netflix has a problem with 25-year-olds using their
parents’ accounts to watch, rather than subscribing on their
own, according to Richard Tullo, an analyst with Albert Fried &
Co. who suggests investors sell.  “Ultimately, people are very excited by the stock and by
the potential of the company, but at $290 a share we’re talking
tulips,” Tullo said on Aug. 26. “It’s not an investment any
more, it’s speculation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  