-- Newman Replaces Truex in Nascar Sprint Cup Chase After Race Fix
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/newman-replaces-truex-in-nascar-sprint-cup-chase-after-race-fix.html
Ryan Newman replaced Martin Truex Jr. in the Chase for the Sprint Cup after Nascar ruled that
Truex’s Michael Waltrip Racing conspired with its drivers in a
bid to fix the outcome of the Sept. 7 Federated Auto Parts 400
in Richmond, Virginia.  Waltrip’s three cars were deducted 50 driver and 50 owner
points each, Nascar said in a statement on its website last
night. The team also was fined $300,000 and General Manager Ty Norris was given an indefinite suspension.  “It is our determination that the MWR organization
attempted to manipulate the outcome of the race,” Nascar Vice
President of Competition Robin Pemberton said in the
organization’s  statement .  Newman, in his final season with Stewart-Haas Racing, and
Truex Jr. were vying for the second of two wild-card places in
the 12-car Chase for the Sprint Cup, a 10-race series which
begins Sept. 15 at Chicagoland Speedway in Joliet,  Illinois .  Newman took the lead with 10 laps to go at Richmond
International Speedway and would have secured the wild-card spot
with a victory. Three laps later, Truex’s teammate Clint Bowyer
spun, bringing out a caution. Newman then lost the lead during a
pit stop to Carl Edwards. Nascar determined that Bowyer’s bid
was deliberate and intended to benefit Truex Jr., who finished
seventh.  Newman, who will join Richard Childress Racing next season,
was third at Richmond, leaving him in a tie in the standings
with Truex, who won a tiebreaker for the final spot on second-place finishes this season.  Michael Waltrip Racing said in an e-mailed statement last
night that it accepts the Nascar penalties.  “What occurred on the No. 55 radio at the end of Saturday
night’s race in Richmond was a split-second decision made by
team spotter Ty Norris to bring the No. 55 to pit lane and help
a teammate earn a place in the Chase,” team founder and co-owner Michael Waltrip said in the statement. “We regret the
decision and its impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 