-- NFL in Talks With Providers on New Sunday Ticket Contract
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-09-10T22:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/nfl-in-talks-with-providers-on-new-sunday-ticket-contract.html
The  National Football League  is in
talks with a number of providers interested in replacing DirecTV
as distributor of “Sunday Ticket” in a new contract, according
to Brian Rolapp, chief operating officer of NFL Media.  “We’re speaking to some companies you’d think of and some
you wouldn’t,” Rolapp said today in an interview at the
Bloomberg Sports Business Summit in  New York . Rolapp declined to
elaborate on the identities of the interested buyers.  DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite television operator,
has an exclusive deal for Sunday Ticket with the NFL, enabling
it to broadcast out-of-market Sunday afternoon football games
until the end of the 2014 season. Chief Executive Officer Mike White said he was optimistic that the contract “will stay with
us for the long haul” during a conference call last month.  Rolapp declined to say whether  DirecTV (DTV)  was the front-runner
in negotiations with the league over a new contract. Darris Gringeri, a spokesman for El Segundo, California-based DirecTV,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The league could sell Sunday Ticket digital rights
separately from TV rights and is discussing exclusive deals and
non-exclusive contracts with multiple providers, Rolapp said.
Digital and TV rights are currently tied together in the
contract with DirecTV.  Player Statistics  DirecTV’s NFL Sunday Ticket package lets customers watch
all of the league’s games, excluding those broadcast by
networks’ local affiliates. The service also allows viewers to
see the games from different angles and track player statistics.  The satellite TV operator pays about $1 billion per year in
its current contract with the NFL. This season, it’s including
Sunday Ticket at no additional cost to new subscribers and sells
an online-only version to those who can’t get its TV service.
About 2 million DirecTV customers paid for Sunday Ticket last
season. The company has about 20 million U.S. subscribers.  In addition to Sunday Ticket, NFL games are broadcast by
CBS, Fox, NBC and ESPN.  While pay-TV is the NFL’s preferred method of “mass
distribution,” Sunday Ticket doesn’t necessarily fit that
category because it’s a “premium product” and therefore “a
different model,” Rolapp said during a panel at the Sports
Business Summit.  Technology-news website AllThingsD  reported  Aug. 20 that
the NFL met with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  CEO  Larry Page  about its interest
in Sunday Ticket.  Google,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  are among tech companies
working to deliver Web-based TV products, threatening the
position of established pay-TV providers such as DirecTV and
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  At the same time, networks are demanding
higher fees for broadcast signals and looking for new ways to
sell digital rights.  DirecTV shares rose 2 percent to $60.84 at the close in New
York, taking their gain to 21 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  