-- Nigerian Police Search for Kidnapped Anglican Archbishop
-- B y   T o n y   T a m u n o   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-09-10T14:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/nigerian-police-search-for-kidnapped-anglican-archbishop.html
Nigerian police intensified the
search for the second-highest ranking archbishop in the West
African country’s  Anglican church  after he was kidnapped near
the country’s oil hub of  Port Harcourt .  Ignatius Kattey, Archbishop of the southern Niger Delta
Province, was kidnapped late on Sept. 6 when he was on his way
to Port Harcourt, Rivers state capital. His wife, Beatrice
Kattey, was abducted with him and was later released by the
kidnappers.  “The abductors of the bishop have not called and have also
not made any ransom demand,” Rivers state police spokeswoman
Angela Agabe said in an interview today in Port Harcourt.  Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer and most populous
country,  ranked fourth  in a list of top 10 threat areas for
kidnap for ransom in 2012, according to  red24 Plc , a U.K.
security-services company. Nigeria’s population of more than 160
million people is divided between a mainly Muslim north and a
largely Christian south, where all of the country’s oil is
pumped.  Nigeria ’s Anglican church has more than 18 million members,
according to its  website . Several calls made to the church
weren’t answered.  Islamist militant groups such as Boko Haram have carried
out abductions though their operations have been confided to the
north and the capital, Abuja. The majority of reported
kidnappings in the south are carried out for ransom.  Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala’s mother was kidnapped
from her house in the southern Delta state in December and spent
five days in captivity before she was released. Okonjo-Iweala
said her mother’s kidnappers told her she was abducted because
the minister didn’t yield to pressures to authorize payment of
unverified fuel-subsidy claims to gasoline importers.  Nigeria, which is  Africa ’s biggest crude producer, produced
an average of 2.02 million barrels of oil a day in August,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Tamuno in Port Harcourt at 
 mmbonye@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  