-- Nissan Revamps Rogue Compact SUV to Challenge Honda, Ford
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-09-10T14:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/nissan-revamps-rogue-compact-suv-to-challenge-honda-ford.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , seeking a boost
for its second-best-selling U.S. model, has revamped the Rogue
small sport-utility vehicle to get a bigger share of the growing
crossover segment from  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)   The 2014 Rogue, longer and wider than the current model,
gets a restyled exterior, an optional third row of seats, new
safety and in-car technology features and a fuel-economy boost,
the Yokohama, Japan-based company said today. U.S. sales of the
new version that’s built in Smyrna, Tennessee, start in
November, with a starting price of $22,490, Nissan said.  “This is a big part of our growth strategy for the
Americas,” Scott Shirley, Nissan’s chief marketing manager in
North America, said following the Rogue introduction in
Farmington Hills,  Michigan .  As U.S. auto sales recover to their highest level in six
years, deliveries of small crossovers -- the second-biggest
segment behind mid-size cars -- have outpaced the industry’s 9.6
percent expansion, according to industry researcher Autodata
Corp.  Small crossovers and sport wagons are up 15 percent through
August, with Honda’s CR-V and Ford’s Escape battling for segment
leadership with sales of more than 200,000 units each. Rogue
sales this year through August gained 16 percent from a year
earlier to 113,316, accelerating after Nissan reduced the
model’s base price by $2,300 in May.  Rogue Features  The Rogue is on pace to sell 150,000 to 160,000 models in
the U.S. this year, Nissan’s Shirley said. The company’s goal is
to increase those sales, he said, declining to be more specific.  With the new Rogue, Nissan is wagering that features
including blind-spot monitoring to avoid accidents and more
smartphone-driven applications will enhance the model’s appeal.
Highway fuel economy may total as much as 33 miles (53
kilometers) per gallon from 28 mpg currently, the company said.  The European version of the Rogue, the X-Trail, was
unveiled earlier today at the Frankfurt Motor Show.  Nissan’s North American unit is based in Franklin,
 Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Farmington Hills, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  