-- Norway Pledges to Limit Oil Spending
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-09-11T14:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/norway-limits-oil-spending-goal-as-inflation-shock-hits-krone.html
Norway  Conservative Party leader
Erna Solberg pledged to limit spending of the nation’s $750
billion sovereign wealth fund after a jump in inflation
triggered the biggest surge in the krone in two months.  Solberg, who ousted Labor Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg
in elections this week after promising tax cuts, said she’ll
probably keep well within a 4 percent spending rule of Norway’s
oil fund amid concern Scandinavia’s richest economy is
overheating. Her government, which she has yet to form, is
likely to keep spending closer to 3 percent, she said.  “We’ll always make sure that we don’t exceed the limits of
our capacity in the economy when it comes to the impact of
demand from the fiscal side of the budget,” Solberg said
yesterday in an interview. For now, that means an appropriate
level is “closer to 3 percent,” she said. “But if there’s an
international crisis or economic slowdown, of course we increase
the amount of money we are using.”  The rule, introduced last decade under Labor, is one of the
main sticking points dividing the four-party coalition that won
the Sept. 9 vote. The Conservatives, Liberals and the Christian
Democrats all support keeping the rule while the Progress Party
has campaigned on scrapping limits to allow more investment in
infrastructure.  Krone Appreciation  That’s triggered concern among economists that Norway’s
next government might deploy policies that lead to a damaging
appreciation of the krone. A report yesterday showed core
inflation jumped to a four-year high in August of 2.5 percent.
The news sent the krone soaring as much as 1.4 percent against
the euro, its strongest since July 8.  Yesterday’s inflation data “means that we have to make
sure that we are not increasing the budget so that it increases
the demand,” Solberg said. “We also have to go in and ask why
we got this jump; is it home made inflation or is it imported
inflation.”  The krone slid for the first day in four today, weakening
0.2 percent to 7.8674 per euro as of 4:01 p.m. in Oslo.  While the 4 percent rule was designed to limit government
spending, its effect has been partly undermined by growth in the
size of the oil fund. With the fund quadrupling in size since
2005, even sticking to the rule results in faster public
spending growth.  The government estimated in its revised budget this year
that the spending room will grow 18 percent next year to 180
billion kroner ($30.3 billion). Stoltenberg’s outgoing coalition
plans to spend 3.3 percent of the fund this year, or 125 billion
kroner.  More Money  The Progress Party is also scaling back its talk of
exceeding the 4 percent rule as it seeks to become part of a
government coalition for the first time since the group started
as an anti-tax movement in 1973.  “We don’t need to change the rule to be able to spend more
money,” Ketil Solvik-Olsen, the Progress Party’s spokesman on
financial issues and a potential minister, said in an interview
yesterday. “There’s a lot of room to maneuver within today’s
spending rule.”  Norway is struggling to stay competitive by finding ways to
avoid an overheating cycle that risks driving up wages and
rendering its  exports  too costly. The new government, which will
take power in mid-October, will need to deal with a potential
housing bubble, manufacturing wages that are about 70 percent
higher than the European Union average and an overvalued krone.  Wrong Way  Central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen, who helped design the
4 percent rule while at the finance ministry last decade, has
proposed paring the spending limit to 3 percent to cool oil
money spending.  “What drives us primarily is that we believe the money is
being spent in the wrong way,” Solvik-Olsen said. “We need to
make room to speed up public investments without having to cut
public spending beforehand.”  The Conservatives, the Progress Party, the Liberal Party
and the Christian Democrats got 96 seats of the 169 in
parliament, with 99.9 percent of the votes counted.
Stoltenberg’s three-party coalition won 72 seats. Labor
prevailed as the biggest party with 55 seats, while the
Conservatives jumped to 48 seats.  Norway’s  mainland economy , which excludes oil and gas
output, will grow 2 percent next year, unchanged from this year.
That will beat the 0.7 percent estimate for the euro area,
according to  DNB ASA (DNB)  forecasts.  “One of the most important things to look at is the mix of
how you use money because there’s a difference in how demand
increases in our economy when it comes to taxes, public
spending, education and infrastructure,” Solberg said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net ;
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  