-- Norway’s Government May Sell $11 Billion of Statoil Shares
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-09-10T16:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/norway-s-new-government-may-sell-11-billion-of-statoil-shares.html
Norway  may sell as much as 16
percent of state-owned oil producer  Statoil ASA (STL) , a stake
currently valued at more than $11 billion, after the
Conservative-led opposition won elections.  Conservative Party leader Erna Solberg said during the
campaign a government under her leadership could cut its stake
in Statoil, which pumps more than 70 percent of Norway’s oil and
gas, to 51 percent from 67 percent. The Conservatives and three
other opposition parties got 96 seats out of 169 in Parliament
in yesterday’s election, defeating Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s Labor-led coalition.  “It’s not unlikely that the government will cut its
Statoil stake, though it probably isn’t imminent since these
processes take time,” Andre Baustad Benonisen, an analyst at
 Danske Bank (DANSKE)  Markets, said. “Potential buyers include everything
from individuals to local and global funds.”  “Since the government will probably keep a stake larger
than 50 percent, a minority post would not be very interesting
for industrial players,” Benonisen said in an e-mail.  The  Conservative Party , which emerged as the biggest group
within the new majority with 48 seats, has promised to cut taxes
and loosen the state’s hold on Scandinavia’s richest economy.
While it faces challenging negotiations to form a government its
partners from the anti-immigration Progress Party, the  Christian
Democrats  and the  Liberal Party  all have said they want to cut
the state’s interest in businesses.  Pragmatic Attitude  “We have a pragmatic attitude where we say that the
government can cut its stake,” Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Progress’s
spokesman for financial matters and a potential minister, said
in a mobile phone interview today. “The most important thing is
to safeguard the values in the state’s possession. If we cut our
stake to enable the company to develop itself in a better way,
we’d be in favor of that.”  Apart from selling a part of its Statoil stake, the
Norwegian government could also decide to dilute its interest in
a capital expansion, a merger or an acquisition outside of
Norway, Solvik-Olsen said.  The Conservatives would also seek to reduce the
government’s ownership of other companies, including mobile
operator  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and aluminum producer  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) ,
Solberg said last month. Norway owns 54 percent of Telenor and
34.3 percent of Hydro.  Price Question  It is “highly likely” that a sale of government shares in
Statoil would be realized at “a small discount compared to the
share’s price over a given period before the sale,” said
Danske’s Benonisen, who recommends his clients buy Statoil
shares. “It will not be a problem to sell a big post. It’s more
a question of at what price.”  Danske estimates Statoil will rise 13 percent to 151 kroner
over the next year. The stock dropped 1.6 percent to close at
132.9 kroner in Oslo today, and has fallen 4.4 percent this
year.  A government stake lowered to 51 percent would probably not
produce significant changes in the way Statoil is run, said
Sverre Christensen, an associate at Oslo’s BI business school.  “In the short term, it means little, partly because the
government has been passive” in its ownership in the past,
though it would make it more difficult for the government to
intervene in the company’s affairs, Christensen said.  Statoil, which got almost two thirds of its production from
Norway in the second quarter, aims to boost its production to
2.5 million barrels a day of oil equivalent in 2020 from around
2 million today. Most of that growth is set to come from
Statoil’s international operations and especially from shale oil
and gas assets in the US.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  