-- Novo’s Sales Assault on U.S. Diabetes Market Sets Rivalry
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/novo-s-sales-assault-on-u-s-diabetes-market-sets-rivalry.html
Drugmakers led by  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) 
and  Merck & Co. (MRK)  are increasing sales efforts for their top-selling diabetes drugs to grab as much of the market as possible
ahead of a wave of new therapies.  At the start of this year, Novo, the world’s biggest maker
of insulin, directed its sales force to boost promotion of the
company’s drug Victoza. Soon after, revenue slowed for competing
treatments from Merck and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , forcing
those companies to put more resources behind their medicines and
overhaul their strategies.  With a half-dozen new products lined up for approval within
two years, the fight to win the growing $22 billion U.S.
diabetes market will only intensify, said  Michael Leuchten , a
Barclays Plc analyst. By expanding sales forces and spending
more on educating doctors, the top companies in diabetes are
working to more strongly establish brand loyalty.  “It’s going to be a push for market share and somebody’s
going to get squeezed,” said Leuchten, who is based in  London .
While drugs used in the pre-insulin stages of diabetes may work
differently, “they’re all competing for the same patients.”  There were  26 million Americans  with diabetes in 2011, an
increase of 2 million from 2007, according to the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention. People with  diabetes  fail to
produce insulin or their body doesn’t use the hormone properly
to convert blood sugar into energy, leaving blood sugar levels
too high without treatment.  Merck’s Januvia, Bristol-Myers’ Onglyza and  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY) ’s Tradjenta are DPP-4 inhibitors. The drugs cause the
pancreas to make more insulin and cut sugar produced by the
liver. Victoza and Bristol-Myers’ Bydureon and Byetta are in a
class called GLP-1 receptor agonists. The drugs spur the body to
make more insulin when blood sugar rises, and can also cause
 weight loss .  Recent Therapies  Newer drugs, called SGLT2 inhibitors, cause the kidneys to
cut excess blood sugar.  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based Johnson
& Johnson’s Invokana, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration in March, and Bristol-Myers’ Forxiga belong to
this class. Lilly and Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH,  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) 
and Bristol-Myers, and Merck and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  are developing
related medicines, now in the final stages of testing.  Last year, Novo increased its U.S. sales force 25 percent
to introduce a diabetes product called Tresiba. When that drug
was rejected by the FDA in February, the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based company refocused the sales workers on Victoza, raising
its revenue by more than a third to $474 million and cutting
into sales of Merck’s Januvia, first-quarter revenue of which
fell 4 percent to $884 million from a year earlier.  Merck’s Response  Merck responded by having more of its sales representatives
focus solely on pushing Januvia, the first in a new class of
medicines when it entered the market in 2006. The company also
boosted spending on doctor education efforts, and last month
 Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck signed a co-promotion
deal with Avanir Pharmaceuticals Inc. to reach patients in
nursing and long-term care homes.  “This is the No. 1 priority for Merck in the U.S. and
around the world,” Frank Clyburn, Merck’s president of primary
care and women’s health, said in a telephone interview. Januvia
is the top drug for the company, the second-biggest U.S.
drugmaker, and dominates the class with 73 percent of the market
for DPP-4 inhibitors.  Bristol-Myers’ Changes  Bristol-Myers, which co-promotes its diabetes drugs with
London-based AstraZeneca, replaced the head of its U.S. diabetes
business, Mark Pavao, a decade-long company veteran, nine months
after he had been given control of the unit, according to an
online resume. In his place, it hired Richard Daly, a former
executive at Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., said Ken Dominski, a
spokesman. Dominski declined to comment on the company’s
strategy.  Onglyza and a related drug, Kombiglyze, generated $202
million in sales for New York-based Bristol-Myers in the first
quarter.  “We along with our partner AstraZeneca recognize the need
to adequately resource this business and execute better,”
Charles Bancroft, Bristol-Myers’ chief financial officer, said
on a July conference call.  Merck’s increase in promotional spending hurt Bristol-Myers’ partner, AstraZeneca, as well, said AstraZeneca Chief
Executive Officer Pascal Soriot. After Novo started promoting
Victoza harder, “the same increase in promotion behind Januvia
was applied by Merck,” Soriot said on an Aug. 1 conference
call. “Suddenly, the promotional pressure has increased and the
market growth is a little bit slower.”  Obesity Effect  The U.S. market for diabetes is projected to grow as
obesity rates increase and more Americans are diagnosed with the
disease. Patients typically start on a generic drug such as
metformin, then progress to other medications before they
eventually may need insulin injections.  “Within the DPP-4s and GLP-1s, we’re going to continue to
see a race to arms or at least an increase of effort, because
that market is massive and will continue to grow,” Leuchten
said.  New medicines will also pressure Januvia. It will be a
sales push, though, not because one drug is that much better
than another, said Valentina Gburcik, an analyst with market
research firm GlobalData who follows the industry.  “The pipeline is filled with me-too drugs, and nothing
revolutionary in the next 10 years,” Gburcik said in a
telephone interview. “All those me-too drugs will take some
share, and it’ll be a marketing battle between the companies.”  Lilly, which hasn’t boosted marketing efforts of its
diabetes medicines, says it expects to be able offer a drug in
each part of the pre-insulin market, as well as its insulin
products.  Full Portfolio  “We will be the only company that can claim to have a
complete, broad offering,” Enrique Conterno, president of
Indianapolis-based Lilly’s diabetes unit, said in a telephone
interview. “Instead of trying to push a brand, we’re starting
the discussion with the physician and the patient and what’s the
best solution.”  In the future, a key product will be pills that combine two
or more of the different types of drugs. Lilly is developing
combination pills of Tradjenta and its experimental compound
empagliflozin, Conterno said. Merck made a deal in April to
develop a combination of Januvia with Pfizer’s ertugliflozin
that may compete with Lilly’s combination product.  “Polypharmacy is the way to go,” said Marshall Gordon, a
New York-based analyst with Legg Mason Inc.’s ClearBridge
Investments affiliate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  