-- NSA Spying Seen Risking Billions in U.S. Technology Sales
-- B y   A l l a n   H o l m e s
-- 2013-09-10T15:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/nsa-spying-seen-risking-billions-in-u-s-technology-sales.html
A congressional committee’s
effective blacklisting of Huawei Technologies Co.’s products
from the U.S. telecommunications market over allegations they
can enable Chinese spying may come back to bite Silicon Valley.  Reports that the National Security Agency persuaded some
U.S. technology companies to build so-called backdoors into
security products, networks and devices to allow easier
surveillance are similar to how the House Intelligence Committee
described the threat posed by  China  through Huawei.  Just as the Shenzhen, China-based Huawei lost business
after the report urged U.S. companies not to use its equipment,
the NSA disclosures may reduce U.S. technology sales overseas by
as much as  $180 billion , or 25 percent of information technology
services, by 2016, according to  Forrester Research  Inc., a
research group in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  “The National Security Agency will kill the U.S.
technology industry singlehandedly,” Rob Enderle, a technology
analyst in  San Jose ,  California , said in an interview. “These
companies may be just dealing with the difficulty in meeting our
numbers through the end of the decade.”  Internet companies, network equipment manufacturers and
encryption tool makers receive significant shares of their
revenue from overseas companies and governments.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s biggest networking
equipment maker, received 42 percent of its $46.1 billion in
fiscal 2012 revenue from outside the U.S., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , the biggest maker of
computer-security software based in  Mountain View , California,
reported 46 percent of its fiscal 2013 revenue of $6.9 billion
from markets other than the U.S.,  Canada  and Latin America.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest semiconductor maker,
reported 84 percent of its $53.3 billion in fiscal 2012 revenue
came from outside the U.S., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Exact Flipping’  The  New York Times , the U.K.’s Guardian and ProPublica
reported in early September that NSA has cracked codes
protecting e-mail and Web content and convinced some equipment
and device makers to build backdoors into products.  That followed earlier reports that the NSA was obtaining
and analyzing communications records from phone companies and
 Internet providers .  The revelations have some overseas governments questioning
their reliance on U.S. technology.  Germany’s government has called for home-grown Internet and
e-mail companies.  Brazil  is analyzing whether privacy laws were
violated by foreign companies.  India  may ban e-mail services
from Google Inc. and Yahoo Inc., the Wall Street Journal
reported. In June,  China Daily  labeled U.S. companies, including
Cisco, a “terrible security threat.”  “One year ago we had the same concern about Huawei,”
 James Staten , an analyst at Forrester, said in an interview.
“Now this is the exact flipping of that circumstance.”  Tarnished Reputations  An Information Technology and Innovation Foundation  report 
in August found U.S. providers of cloud services -- which manage
the networks, storage, applications and computing power for
companies -- stand to lose as much as $35 billion a year as
foreign companies, spooked by the NSA’s surveillance, seek non-U.S. offerings.  “Customers buy products and services based on a company’s
reputation, and the NSA has single-handedly tarnished the
reputation of the entire U.S. tech industry,” said Daniel
Castro, the report’s author and an analyst with the non-partisan
research group in  Washington , in an e-mail. “I suspect many
foreign customers are going to be shopping elsewhere for their
hardware and software.”  Chips, Devices  The latest disclosures were based on documents provided by
Edward Snowden, the former NSA contractor accused of espionage
by the U.S. who’s now in  Russia  under temporary asylum.  While the NSA mentioned no company by name, agency
documents posted on the  New York  Times’ website said some
companies were persuaded to insert “vulnerabilities into
commercial encryption systems, IT systems, networks and endpoint
communications devices used by targets.” The documents also
said the NSA was trying to work with makers of “chips used in
Virtual Private Network and Web encryption devices.”  The German magazine  Der Spiegel  separately reported the NSA
cracked encryption  codes  to listen in on the 1.4 billion
smartphones in use worldwide, including Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  Google, Facebook Inc. and Yahoo yesterday petitioned the
U.S. Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, which rules on
warrants for domestic data, for permission to publish the types
of requests they’ve received from the NSA. The three companies
were among 22 that sent a  letter  in July to President  Barack
Obama  and congressional leaders urging that the companies be
allowed to say more about their dealings with the agency.  Companies’ Defense  Cisco said it doesn’t customize equipment to enable
surveillance.  “Cisco’s product development practices specifically
prohibit any intentional behaviors or product features which are
designed to allow unauthorized device or network access,
exposure of sensitive device information, or a bypass of
security features or restrictions,” John Earnhardt, spokesman
for the San Jose, California-based company, said in a statement.  Symantec said in a statement that it learned of the NSA’s
encryption cracking in the media. “We had no prior knowledge
about this program,” said Anna Zvagelskaya, of public relations
firm  Weber Shandwick , which represents Symantec.  “We have long held that Intel does not participate in
alleged government efforts to decrease security in technology,”
Lisa Malloy, an Intel spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Congress, Huawei  While foreign firms may be more suspicious of some U.S.-
made technologies, the impact of the disclosures may be limited,
said Charles Kolodgy, a security analyst with IDC.  “It’s a worldwide market and some companies may try to
benefit from not being a U.S.-based company, but the real issue
is enterprises are trying to protect themselves in most cases
from cyber criminals or malicious insiders or competitors,” he
said in an interview.  “They’re not so concerned with what a nation-state is
doing, The market-leading gear is often market-leading because
it’s the best. We’ve gone past being able to source everything
within a country.”  The NSA revelations also may undermine congressional
efforts to block U.S. sales of networking equipment made by
Huawei and ZTE Corp., China’s second-largest phone-equipment
maker, also based in Shenzhen.  A House Intelligence Committee report released in October
2012 said the companies’ close ties to the Chinese government
and its ability to build backdoors into U.S. computer networks
might allow China to disrupt power grids, financial networks or
other critical infrastructure.  That suspicion applies to almost every government and
technology company,  William Plummer , a Huawei spokesman, said in
an e-mail. “Threats to data integrity are not limited to the
acts of certain governments or the equipment or services of
companies with select countries of origin,” he said.  Plummer called the U.S. government’s pursuit of Huawei “an
innuendo-driven political exercise” and for “industry and
government to leave political games behind and pursue real
solutions to more secure networks and data.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allan Holmes in Washington at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  