-- NSA Phone-Records Spying Said to Violate Rules for Years
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-09-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/nsa-phone-records-spying-violated-court-rules-for-years.html
The U.S. National Security Agency
violated rules on surveillance of telephone records for almost
three years and misled a secret court, raising fresh concerns
that spy programs lack adequate controls to protect Americans’
privacy.  The latest revelations show NSA spying was broader,
violated restrictions on domestic surveillance more often, and
may have targeted innocent Americans to a greater degree than
previously known. They are contained in documents released
yesterday by Director of National Intelligence James Clapper in
response to privacy groups’ lawsuits.  The agency ran a select list of phone numbers against
databases of millions of call records between May 2006 and
January 2009 without having reason to suspect some of the
numbers’ owners of terrorist ties, according to the  records .  “The court entrusted NSA with extraordinary authority, and
with it came the highest responsibility for compliance and
protection of privacy rights,” NSA Director Keith Alexander
wrote in one of the declassified documents. “In several
instances, NSA implemented its authority in a manner
inconsistent with the orders, and some of these inconsistencies
were not recognized for more than two and a half years.”  The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy-rights group
in San Francisco, sued the NSA to obtain the documents that had
been issued by a secret intelligence court.  “It’s pretty damning,” said Trevor Timm, a digital rights
analyst with EFF. “This shows a larger pattern that a lot of
times the NSA doesn’t alert the court to serious privacy
violations, whether they are intentional or unintentional, for
years down the road.”  Court Rules  The violations involved checks on as many as 16,000 phone
numbers, including some based in the U.S., said two senior
intelligence officials with direct knowledge of how the program
operated. They asked not to be identified in order to speak
about sensitive matters.  Intelligence officials notified the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court, which oversees intelligence gathering on
Americans, of the violations on Jan. 15, 2009, five days before
President  Barack Obama  was sworn in.  Among other violations, a “significant” number of
domestic telephone numbers were added to lists for heightened
scrutiny without proper review, according to an  Aug. 17, 2009 
filing by the NSA with the court. The agency said it had
remedied the violations through better training and
technological fixes.  ‘Deeply Troubled’  Between March 2009 and September 2009 the court required
the NSA to get approval for each number it wanted to query. In
September of that year the court approved revised procedures
that allowed the program to continue, the official said.  Within three weeks, the NSA reported that unauthorized
personnel had been given access to some of the records. U.S.
District Judge Reggie Walton, serving on the surveillance court,
wrote of being “deeply troubled by the incidents.” He ordered
the parties to appear at a hearing to assess whether to shut the
surveillance program down. He didn’t take that step.  The NSA collects bulk phone records, such as numbers and
call durations, from companies including  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  under Section 215 of the USA Patriot Act.  Under the law, the agency must have “reasonable,
articulable suspicion” that a phone number may be connected to
a terrorist plot to query it against the larger database of
records.  Alert List  Between May 2006 and January 2009, NSA analysts would query
the database with thousands of numbers on an “alert list,” the
intelligence officials said. Those numbers didn’t meet the
necessary legal standard for ongoing searches, the officials
said.  The alert list grew from 3,980 in 2006 to 17,835 in 2009,
one of the officials said. About 2,000 numbers on the list in
2009 met the necessary standard, the official said, meaning
almost 16,000 didn’t. The alert list was shut down on Jan. 24,
2009, according to one of the declassified documents.  The NSA misled the surveillance court during those years by
certifying the legal standard was met for all numbers queried,
the official said.  Alexander described to the court in a Feb. 13, 2009, filing
how mistakes were made in using the alert list. Four days later,
the Justice Department submitted a memorandum to the court
saying declarations made by Alexander were inaccurate and that
the government didn’t have the authority to use the list in the
manner it did.  Compliance Remedies  Remedies put in place “should significantly improve
compliance with the court’s orders,” Alexander said. He added
that “no corrective measures are infallible.” Remedies include
software that prevents queries about numbers not on an approved
list, Alexander said.  It wasn’t the first time the NSA has acknowledged violating
surveillance rules or misleading the court.  The NSA said last month that, in a handful of cases, some
employees or contractors deliberately spied on people of
interest to them, including for romantic motivations.  Separately, a legal opinion declassified Aug. 21 revealed
that the NSA intercepted as many as 56,000 electronic
communications a year of Americans who weren’t suspected of
having links to terrorism, before the secret court that oversees
surveillance found the operation unconstitutional in 2011.  In a declassified legal opinion from October 2011, the
court said the agency misrepresented the scope of surveillance
operations three times in less than three years.  Government Audit  A May 2012 internal government audit found more than 2,700
violations involving NSA surveillance of Americans and
foreigners over a one-year period. The audit was reported Aug.
16 by the Washington Post, citing documents provided by former
NSA contractor Edward Snowden.  The extent of the phone metadata program was exposed in
June by Snowden, who’s now in  Russia  under temporary asylum. He
revealed a classified legal order compelling Verizon to turn
over the phone records of millions of customers to the NSA.  The administration acknowledged that the phone metadata
program involves multiple telecommunications carriers in an Aug.
9 description of how the program works, without naming other
participating companies.  Yesterday’s disclosures were made in response to a judge’s
order in a freedom of information lawsuit brought by the
Electronic Frontier Foundation.  The group sued after the government didn’t respond to its
requests to turn over documents describing its collection and
surveillance efforts. In November the government asked U.S.
District Judge Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers in Oakland,  California , to
toss the case, saying the EFF sought documents that were exempt
from disclosure to protect national security.  ‘Flawed Interpretation’  The Justice Department said in a Sept. 5 court filing that
it would release hundreds of pages to EFF, including orders and
opinions of the surveillance court from January 2004 to June
2011 and other documents about the court’s work.  The government has collected “the details of every call
made by every American” in violation of the Patriot Act, said
Republican Representative Jim Sensenbrenner of  Wisconsin , who
helped write the 2001 law.  “The implications of this flawed interpretation are
staggering,” Sensenbrenner wrote in  a Sept. 6 letter  to
Attorney General Eric Holder. “The logic the administration
uses for bulk collection would seem to support bulk collection
of other personal data.”  The case is Electronic Frontier Foundation v. Department of
Justice, 11-05221, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  