-- O’Neil Seeking Two-City Financial Turnaround as 76ers-Devils CEO
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2013-09-10T16:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/o-neil-seeking-two-city-financial-turnaround-as-76ers-devils-ceo.html
Scott O’Neil is trying to turn
around the financial footing of two professional sports
franchises in different cities and said he’s never been happier.  O’Neil became the chief executive officer of the National
Basketball Association’s Philadelphia 76ers in July when the
team was purchased by  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  co-founder
Josh Harris. He assumed the same role with the National Hockey
League’s New Jersey Devils last month, when Harris and David Blitzer, senior managing director of Blackstone Group LP,
purchased the debt-ridden franchise.  “The good news about having guys like Josh and David, they
understand difficult situations, difficult turnarounds,” O’Neil
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “Their formula is
pretty simple, you buy an asset that’s distressed, you
restructure, you bring in really talented people and you have a
long-term approach.”  O’Neil had been president of Madison Square Garden Sports,
where he oversaw business operations of the company’s three
professional New York sports teams -- the NBA’s Knicks, NHL’s
Rangers and the Liberty of the Women’s NBA.  Now he’s working with teams in cities about 90 miles (145
kilometers) apart and sees similar opportunities.  “In Philadelphia, the business was down, they had
struggled for 10 years or so,” O’Neil said. “You have a
turnaround opportunity in a great market with a terrific brand
with some real history and tradition to it.”  Devils Value  The Devils, who play at the Prudential Center in  Newark ,
New Jersey, struggled financially under the ownership of former
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. executive Jeff Vanderbeek. Forbes
estimated in November that the Devils were worth $205 million,
ranked 19th among the NHL’s 30 teams, with $122 million in
revenue.  “You have a tremendous market,” O’Neil said. “You have
21 corporate headquarters based in New Jersey and the fourth-highest grossing arena in North America behind the Barclays
Center, Madison Square Garden and the Staples Center. We have a
good history of attracting folks.”  O’Neil is taking part in the Bloomberg Sports Business
Summit hosted by  Bloomberg Link .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  