-- Obama Chooses Top Justice National Security Official
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-09-10T22:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/obama-chooses-top-justice-national-security-official.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama 
nominated John P. Carlin as the top national security official
at the  Justice Department , the White House said.  Carlin, if confirmed, would become the permanent
replacement for  Lisa Monaco , who in March became Obama’s top
homeland security adviser. He has been serving as the acting
assistant attorney general in charge of the national security
division since Monaco’s departure.  A Harvard Law School graduate, Carlin has run the
department’s national security operation on an acting basis at a
time of unprecedented volatility, starting with the Boston
Marathon bombing in April and continuing with the disclosures by
former government contractor Edward Snowden of classified
intelligence and defense information.  Carlin, in a June speech, outlined an “increasingly
diverse and decentralized” terrorism threat, the growing threat
of cyber terrorism and the increasing debate over the trade-off
between intelligence collection and civil liberties as primary
issues faced by the division.  The national security division is “in many respects on the
front lines of these efforts,” Carlin said during his  remarks 
at the  American Bar Association ’s Homeland Security Law
Institute.  The nomination marks the latest elevation for Carlin, a
career federal prosecutor who has risen through the national
security ranks in positions that included chief of staff and
senior counsel to then-FBI Director  Robert Mueller , as well as
Monaco’s top deputy before she left for the White House.  230 Attorneys  Created in 2006 to consolidate the Justice Department’s
national security operations, the division has more than 230
attorneys and contains the department’s counterterrorism and
counterespionage sections, as well as its intelligence office.
Carlin’s attorneys also represent the U.S. government in front
of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, or FISC.  The interaction between the FISC and Justice Department
attorneys has become a central part of the debate over
intelligence collection in the wake of Snowden’s disclosures,
which included details of court orders that authorized federal
programs that collect in bulk millions of U.S. phone records, as
well as the operations of an Internet surveillance program that
targets foreign citizens outside the U.S. suspected of being
connected to terrorism.  Lawmakers and technology companies have pushed for more
disclosure in the way the government and the court interact,
including the declassification of certain orders.  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  joined  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Google Inc. yesterday
in asking the court for permission to publish more specifics
about orders they receive from the federal government.  Carlin has defended the court’s independence, as well as
the checks and balances in place to oversee the government’s
intelligence collection apparatus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  