-- Obama Officials Defend Use of E-Mail Aliases
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-09-10T15:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/obama-officials-defend-use-of-e-mail-aliases.html
Top officials in the U.S.
government can use e-mail aliases for official business without
violating federal disclosure rules, the chief federal records
administrator said as Republicans challenged the practice.  David Ferriero, the U.S. archivist, said at a congressional
hearing today that use of an alias e-mail is allowed as long as
the messages are preserved and produced in response to a request
for records. Current and former officials in President  Barack
Obama ’s administration faced tough questions from Republicans
today over their use of private or alias e-mail addresses to
conduct official business.  “The  National Archives  discourages the use of private e-mail accounts to conduct federal business, but understands that
there are situations where such use does occur,” Ferriero told
the House Government and Oversight Committee today. The archives
in a notice yesterday advised agencies that private e-mail
accounts, such as Yahoo Mail, should be avoided for public
business, and any messages to alias government e-mail addresses
should be captured as part of federal records.  Lawmakers on the oversight panel are preparing legislation
to ensure that records of federal officials are appropriately
captured, and shared with lawmakers, journalists or others who
would make requests for the records, Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican and committee chairman, said. Issa
said officials such as former Environmental Protection Agency
chief  Lisa Jackson  didn’t “do their job right” in preserving
e-mails from the alias accounts.  Dog Ricky  Jackson testified today that she wanted her second official
e-mail to be  adminjackson@epa.gov , because her main e-mail
address was overwhelmed with more than a million messages a
year. Jackson, now a vice president at Apple Inc., said she
chose  Richard.Windsor@epa.gov , because her family lived in the
town of Windsor and her family dog was named Ricky.  Republicans in Congress argue that Jackson and other
officials failed to appropriately manage those records, and, in
one case, Jackson asked a lobbyist in an e-mail message to
contact her using a personal account instead of the Windsor
address.  “From day one of the Obama administration, the EPA has
pursued a path of obfuscation, operating in the shadows, and out
of legally required sunlight,” Republicans on the Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee said in a  report 
yesterday. “Specifically, the agency established an alias
identity to hide the actions” of Jackson, it said.  Narrow Use  In addition to Jackson,  Gary Gensler , chairman of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said he used a private e-mail address for his work, and turned over 11,000 e-mails to the
committee from that address. “Moving forward, though, I believe
that we can and need to do better,” Gensler said. On the use of
private e-mail accounts, “we need to narrow the use of it, and
ensure it is part of public records. I have learned a lot the
past three or four months looking into this.”  Former Energy Department loan program director  Jonathan Silver  faced questions about his use of private e-mails while at
the agency. Before today’s hearings, a representative for the
 law firm  representing Silver asked committee staff not to
directly question Silver, according to Issa.  “This one crosses the line,” Issa said, as he put a copy
of the e-mail up on a screen in the hearing room.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net  