-- Hong Kong H Shares Advance, Poised to Enter Bull Market
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-09-10T01:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/hong-kong-h-shares-advance-poised-to-enter-bull-market.html
Hong Kong  stocks  rose, with a gauge
of Chinese shares poised to enter a bull market, before the
release of data today expected to show mainland industrial
output accelerated at the fastest pace this year.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  gained 1.2 percent to
10,655.19 as of 9:38 a.m. in Hong Kong. The Hang Seng Index
added 0.8 percent to 22,926.48 after yesterday erasing this
year’s losses as mainland exports surged.  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share index, rose 20 percent from a June 25 low, an advance that
some traders consider a bull market. The measure traded at 1.25
times book value yesterday, compared with a five-year average of
1.77. Shares have climbed as stronger China manufacturing data
prompted Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
lift projections for the nation’s economic growth.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.4 percent this year through
yesterday as manufacturing data from around the world added to
signs of a global recovery. The gauge traded at 10.9 times
estimated earnings yesterday, compared with 15.1 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  China’s  industrial output  is expected to have surged 9.9
percent in August from a year earlier after a 9.7 percent gain
in July, according to a Bloomberg survey. Retail sales probably
expanded 13.3 percent on an annualized basis, from 13.2 percent
the previous month. A report over the weekend fueled gains in
global stocks after it showed Chinese exports rose more than
economists expected last month.  Futures on the S&P 500 were little changed. The measure
jumped 1 percent yesterday as corporate acquisitions fueled
optimism in the world’s largest economy. Koch Industries Inc.’s
takeover of Molex Inc. is among the latest of $160 billion of
mergers and acquisitions that have been announced in the U.S.
since the end of August, the most since 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  West Texas Intermediate crude fell from a two-year high as
President  Barack Obama  struggled to marshal support for a
military strike against  Syria . Bashar al-Assad threatened
retaliation if the U.S. attacks, and Russia urged the Middle
Eastern state to give up its stockpile of chemical weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  