-- Thor Offers $1.4 Billion for Empire State Building Title
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-09-10T00:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/thor-offers-1-4-billion-for-empire-state-building-title.html
Thor Equities LLC offered to buy the
title to  New York ’s Empire State Building for $1.4 billion,
according to a letter from an attorney representing investors
who oppose plans to put the skyscraper into a real estate
investment trust.  Thor, run by Joseph Sitt, would acquire the fee title and
master lease from Empire State Building Associates LLC,
according to the letter from Stephen Meister to Thomas E.L. Dewey, attorney for Malkin Holdings LLC, the tower’s supervisor.
The offer is “materially greater” than the $1.18 billion value
of the building allocated to the company in filings supporting
the creation of the REIT, according to the letter.  Meister’s son Jason Meister, a vice president at brokerage
Avison Young, has been working to create a market for the tower
and head off its inclusion in the REIT. The elder Meister has
said on conference calls with unitholders that an outside offer
would give them a choice to either cash in their shares or keep
their interests in the tower.  “Thor’s offer now well exceeds the exchange value,”
Stephen Meister wrote in the letter. “My clients urge Malkin
Holdings to give earnest and serious consideration to Thor’s
offer.”  ‘Best Interest’  Malkin Holdings in May won enough votes to proceed with the
REIT, which would include the Empire State Building and 20 other
New York-area properties. Last week, in response to a set of
buyout proposals, the company said it’s in the “best interest”
of investors to proceed with the REIT conversion, according to a
letter by Malkin Holdings Chairman  Peter Malkin  and his son
Anthony Malkin, the firm’s president.  Hugh Burns, a Malkin spokesman, declined to comment on the
latest offer. Stefan Friedman, a spokesman for Sitt, also
declined to comment.  Thor’s offer would give investors the opportunity to
receive more in cash than the estimated value of the stock they
would receive through an initial public offering, Jason Meister
said in a telephone interview today.  In June, Thor made a bid of more than $2.1 billion for the
building, an offer that would have included the purchase of a
sublease. Today’s letter doesn’t mention the sublease, which is
controlled by a company majority-owned by the estate of  Leona Helmsley .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  