-- HP Exit From Dow Jones Industrial Signals Revival Challenge
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-09-10T20:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/hp-s-exit-from-dow-jones-industrial-signals-turnaround-challenge.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is being
removed from the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , a sign of waning
confidence in the company’s turnaround efforts amid an historic
slump in the personal-computer industry.  The exit, announced today as part of the biggest
reshuffling of the index since April 2004, delivers another blow
to Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman ’s quest to revive growth
at the storied PC maker.  Hewlett-Packard’s shares have declined for three straight
years as consumers have abandoned PCs in favor of smartphones
and tablets. Whitman last month scrapped her forecast for a
return to revenue growth in 2014 as lackluster demand for
hardware and services and aggressive price cuts amplify the
impact of the downturn for computers. The departure from the Dow
reflects those challenges, according to  Shannon Cross , an
analyst at Cross Research.  “It’s certainly not something you want to happen on your
watch,” Cross said in an interview today. “The Dow is more
about symbolism and prestige than anything else.”  Hewlett-Packard fell less than 1 percent to $22.27 at the
close in New York. It’s the third lowest-priced stock in the Dow
index.  “HP remains confident that we are making progress in our
turnaround,” Michael Thacker, a spokesman for the Palo Alto,
California-based company, said in an e-mail. “We have delivered
financial performance in line with or better than our
expectations throughout this fiscal year, and remain focused on
delivering  shareholder value .”  PC Decline  PC shipments fell in the second quarter for a fifth
straight period, sliding 11 percent, market researcher Gartner
Inc. said in July. Consumers are increasingly opting for tablets
instead of traditional desktops and notebooks, and businesses
are holding onto old machines for longer.  For the fiscal third quarter, which ended in July, Hewlett-Packard’s sales fell 8 percent to $27.2 billion, missing
analysts’ average estimate of $27.3 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in the business group that includes
PCs fell 11 percent to $7.7 billion.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Visa Inc. and  Nike Inc. (NKE)  will be
added to the index. Bank of America Corp. and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  are
being removed along with Hewlett-Packard.  Once Hewlett-Packard is gone, four technology companies
will remain in the Dow: Cisco Systems Inc., Microsoft Corp.,
 Intel Corp . and International Business Machines Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  