-- Palo Alto Cyber View Boosts Check Point: Israel Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-09-11T06:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/palo-alto-cyber-view-boosts-check-point-israel-overnight.html
Check Point  Software Technologies
Ltd., the world’s second-largest maker of network security gear,
posted the biggest gain in almost two months after Palo Alto
Networks Inc.’s revenue outlook beat estimates.  Shares of the Tel Aviv-based company climbed 2.7 percent to
$58.45. The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the most traded
Israeli equities in  New York  added 1.6 percent.  Allot
Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , the Israeli maker of technology used to
track wireless traffic, led gains on the gauge.  Mellanox
Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , which makes equipment that speeds electronic
data transfers, settled at a 2.7 percent discount to the Tel
Aviv-listed shares, the widest gap on the index.  Palo Alto, co-founded in 2005 by a former Check Point
executive, posted a 49 percent jump in sales for the three
months ended July, and said revenue in the current quarter  will
grow  to as much as $120 million. Both numbers surpassed the
average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Demand for
cybersecurity has soared following a security breach of the U.S.
Federal Reserve website in February and attacks against Bank of
America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other  institutions
since last September.  “Palo Alto is a great barometer for overall cybersecurity
spending and the company delivered solid results,”  Daniel Ives ,
the managing director at FBR Capital Markets & Co. in New York,
said by e-mail yesterday. “Check Point is a leader in the
security market and will directly benefit from healthy deal flow
in the field.”  Computer Attacks  The benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  slipped 0.1 percent to 1,196.84
at 9:56 a.m. in  Tel Aviv . The Bloomberg Israel-US gauge rose to
97.43 yesterday, the most in two months. Allot increased 6.4
percent to $13 with trading volume four times the average daily
level over the past three months, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Cybersecurity continues to be one of the fastest-growing
areas of technology spending amid recent high-profile cyber-attacks, Bloomberg Industries analysts said in a report
yesterday. The U.S. is planning for a possible wave of computer
attacks against companies by hackers connected to Syria or  Iran ,
a person familiar with the plan said Aug. 29.  Revenue at  Palo Alto  surged to  $112.4 million  in the fiscal
fourth quarter ended July 31, surpassing a $108.9 million
average estimate of 24 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The
company forecast sales for the current quarter to be between
$118 million and $122 million, compared with a mean analysis
estimate of $118.8 million.  New Solutions  “We expect our customer growth trend to continue,” Mark D. McLaughlin, chief executive officer and president of the
company, said on a Sept. 9 conference call. “In 2013, we
rapidly took share in our large $12 billion addressable market.
I’m proud of the results. We have grown at such significant
rates and expect to continue to do so.”  Palo Alto’s quarter “was pristine and strength was broad
based,”  Shaul Eyal , an analyst at Oppenheimer Holdings Inc. in
New York, said by e-mail yesterday. Check Point is “a
beneficiary and should be seeing similar trends in the security
marketplace.”  Companies are implementing new security solutions to
protect data and intellectual property, Bloomberg analyst Anurag
Rana wrote in a report yesterday. Software vendors such as Cisco
Systems Inc. and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  are
pursuing acquisitions to enhance security offerings and
capitalize on this trend.  Check Point’s adjusted earnings  will grow  15 percent this
year, from an 11 percent increase in 2012, according to the mean
estimate of 28 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has
surged 23 percent this year after sliding 9.3 percent last year.  “ Palo Alto (PANW) ’s results speak to the tailwinds cybersecurity
vendors are seeing given the increased threat environment,”
Ives said.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the Israeli maker of home
soda machines, climbed 4.3 percent to a two-week high of $64.59
in New York, as trading volume exceeded the daily average by 80
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Mellanox rose 0.9
percent to $38.34, gaining for the first time in three days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  