-- Peugeot CEO Sees Slight Growth in Europe Demand Next Year
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-09-10T10:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/peugeot-ceo-sees-slight-growth-in-europe-demand-next-year.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , the region’s
second-biggest carmaker, forecast a moderate recovery of the
European auto market next year as the company works to shore up
its finances and maintain market share.  “The worst is behind us,” Chief Executive Officer
Philippe Varin said at a press conference today at the
International Motor Show in Frankfurt. “We’re expecting a
slightly positive growth in Europe” in 2014. The shares climbed
to the highest in more than 17 months.  Varin, who reiterated the Paris-based company’s forecast
for a 5 percent decline in Europe this year, said Peugeot’s
market share in the region should improve in the last quarter
from a year earlier.  Peugeot brand chief Maxime Picat said in an interview today
that sales of the new 308 compact and 2008 crossover may help
the company beat a target of reducing its cash consumption by 50
percent in 2013. Peugeot, which reported a 510 million-euro
($672 million) first-half operating loss at its automotive
division, plans to eliminate 11,200  jobs  in  France  by 2015 and
close a car plant in Aulnay, on the outskirts of Paris.  The French manufacturer’s  shares  rose as much 98 cents, or
8.1 percent, to 13.08 euros, the highest price since March 27,
2012, and were up 5 percent as of 12:47 p.m. in Paris. Peugeot
stock has more than doubled this year, giving the carmaker a
market value of 4.5 billion euros.  Curbing Costs  Peugeot is curbing costs as the European market is set to
decline for a sixth consecutive year. The slump hurt the
automaker in particular because of the company’s focus on small
and mid-range cars that have been the dominant models in debt-strapped southern  Europe .  The Peugeot and Citroen brands had a combined European
market share of 11.1 percent in the first half, a decline from
12 percent a year earlier, according to figures from the ACEA
carmakers’ lobby. That compares with 12.5 percent in the first
half for  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s namesake brand. VW is Europe’s largest
automaker.  As part of a plan to reduce fixed costs in its home country
and Europe, Peugeot has started talks with French unions.
Concessions the manufacturer is seeking include scaling back
extra pay for overtime or night shifts and more flexibility on
assigning work days, Peugeot  said  on Sept. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in  Frankfurt  at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  