-- PG&E to Settle San Bruno Pipeline Explosion Claims
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/pg-e-to-settle-san-bruno-pipeline-explosion-claims.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG) , owner of California’s
largest utility, said it will settle “substantially all”
remaining personal injury and property damage claims from a 2010
natural gas pipeline explosion that killed eight people.  The utility announced the agreement yesterday in a
regulatory filing, saying that in the quarter ending Sept. 30 it
expects to record a charge of about $110 million in addition to
cumulative charges of $455 million to pay for the settlements
reached on Sept. 6 and yesterday. PG&E previously disclosed that
it faced about 160 lawsuits filed on behalf of 500 people and a
total possible loss of $600 million.  Mike Danko, a lawyer who represents 26 households in the
litigation that had pulled out of the settlement talks, said his
clients will join the agreement because “PG&E finally agreed to
pay some numbers that made sense for the victims.”  Law firms representing the three largest groups of
plaintiffs agreed to the settlement, while a small minority of
plaintiffs not tied to the larger groups are holding out, Danko
said.  Lawyers for both sides are scheduled to appear before
Superior Court Judge Steven Dylina in Redwood City,  California ,
on Sept. 12 to tell him about the agreements, and learn how the
judge wants to handle the unsettled cases, Danko said.  Proposed Penalty  PG&E has said it expects the California Public Utilities
Commission to decide by the end of this year on a punishment for
the September 2010 explosion. The staff of the commission has
proposed a $2.25 billion penalty for PG&E for violations of
safety rules leading up to the blast.  PG&E has about $992 million in insurance coverage for
third-party claims related to the San Bruno explosion, according
to a July 31 regulatory filing. The utility said it has $329
million of insurance recoveries for claims as of June 30.  Two of the cases are DiTrapani v. PG&E Corp., CIV499291,
and Dare v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co., CIV498932, California
Superior Court, San Mateo County (Redwood City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  