-- Philippines Beefs Up Troops Amid Standoff With Muslim Rebels
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-09-10T07:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/philippines-beefs-up-troops-amid-standoff-with-muslim-rebels-1-.html
Philippines President  Benigno
Aquino  deployed more troops to the southern city of Zamboanga as
a standoff with Muslim rebels there complicated efforts to make
progress in peace talks with another separatist group.  Suspected members of the Moro National Liberation Front
were holed up in a Muslim residential community of about 180
people, forcing the military to keep a “healthy distance,”
Local Government Secretary Mar Roxas said in a televised
briefing from Zamboanga today. Four people were killed and 14
wounded in clashes in the area yesterday, Roxas said.  “We don’t expect more tensions today,” Aquino told
reporters in Manila today, with the rebels facing what he called
an “overwhelming” government force. Two platoons of 30
soldiers were sent to the area yesterday to reinforce about 500
soldiers in the area, and more arrived at the local airbase this
morning, the Zamboanga government said on its official Twitter
account.  The clashes may increase tensions as the government readies
for fresh peace talks as soon as this week in  Malaysia  with a
separate group, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, which is
seeking an autonomous Muslim region on Mindanao Island, where
Zamboanga is located. A four-decade insurgency there has killed
as many as 200,000 people and stifled development of an area
rich in mineral deposits.  “The fresh violence will exacerbate Mindanao’s negative
image as a hotbed of insurgency,” Rommel Banlaoi,  executive
director  at the Philippine Institute for Peace, Violence and
Terrorism Research, said by phone. “The government should open
communication channels with the MNLF and its head Nur Misuari
because military action won’t restore peace in the region.”  Mortar Rounds  Three loud explosions, likely from mortar rounds fired by
MNLF forces, hit waters near the city’s port after 7 a.m. today,
Seaman First Class Lauro Gonzales, a radio operator at the local
coast guard station, said by phone.  Schools and offices remained shut, Zamboanga Mayor Isabelle
Climaco said in a statement, while flights to and from the city
were canceled.  The rebels freed five civilians, three of them children,
regional police spokesman Ariel Huesca said in a mobile-phone
message today.  “The military and police are exercising restraint to make
sure there is no misencounter and accidental shooting,” Roxas
said. “It appears that community members were not being treated
as hostages since they’re not bound and could freely move
about,” he said.  Government Forces  Troops have surrounded at least four towns to ensure
violence doesn’t spill into other areas, Roxas said.  Two civilians, one soldier and a policeman were killed
during the clashes yesterday, while 14 people were hurt in the
fighting between government forces and MNLF rebels, police
spokesman Senior Superintendent Wilben Mayor said yesterday.  The Moro National Liberation Front is letting the
government know that it should be included in peace talks,
Benito Lim, a professor of political science at Ateneo de  Manila 
University, said by phone. “You can’t achieve peace and
economic development in Mindanao if other groups will continue
the disruptions,” he said.  The Moro National Liberation Front, founded more than four
decades ago to push for an independent Muslim state, signed a
peace deal with the government in 1996. The Moro Islamic
Liberation Front broke away from the MNLF due to policy
differences.  Troops Deployed  Troops were deployed in Zamboanga on Sept. 8 after the
military received intelligence that armed men would head to the
coastal town of Rio Hondo, military public affairs chief
Lieutenant Colonel Ramon Zagala said at a briefing yesterday.  “Our mission right now is to contain them and prevent them
from getting out of the Rio Hondo area,” Zagala said, adding
that the rebels had made no demands.  The armed group accused police of harassment, saying its
members had gathered in the city to hold a peace rally,
spokesman Emmanuel Fontanilla told ABS-CBN. Police arrested six
Moro National Liberation Front members, Huesca said in a mobile-phone message yesterday.  Mindanao accounted for 14.4 percent of  Philippine output  in
2012, according to government data. The Zamboanga peninsula,
which contributed 2.1 percent to the economy last year, expanded
12.4 percent, the fastest among the nation’s 17 regions, the
data show.  Last month, the government reported “substantial
progress” toward a peace accord with the Moro Islamic
Liberation Front after four days of negotiation where the two
sides discussed sharing power and disarming the rebels.  A final agreement is likely to be signed this year, Banlaoi
said, even if it doesn’t guarantee an end to conflict in the
area. “The government must design a grand strategy that will
make peace talks with the Moro Islamic Liberation and Moro
National Liberation complementary rather than competitive,”
Banlaoi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  