-- Philippine Peso Rises Most in 11 Weeks on Surprise Exports Gain
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-09-10T03:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/philippine-peso-rises-most-in-11-weeks-on-surprise-exports-gain.html
The Philippine peso climbed the
most in 11 weeks on a surprise increase in exports and as
concern the U.S. will strike  Syria  eased.  Overseas shipments rose 2.3 percent in July from a year
earlier, compared with the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
for a 1 percent drop, official data showed today. President
 Barack Obama  said yesterday  Russia ’s bid to get Syria to
surrender its chemical weapons is a “potentially positive
development” that could avert a U.S. attack. The price of Brent
Crude fell 2.7 percent since Sept. 6 after increasing 7.3
percent in the previous four weeks.  The peso strengthened 0.6 percent to 43.972 per dollar as
of 10:40 a.m. in  Manila , the most since June 25, Tullett Prebon
Plc data show. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.79 percent.  “The reduced risk of an imminent military strike on Syria
has brought the focus back on the local fundamentals,” said
Joey Cuyegkeng, an economist in Manila at ING Groep NV. “The
 Philippines  continues to have favorable fundamentals, both from
an external payments position and a growth perspective.”  The Philippines had a  current-account  surplus of $1.17
billion in March, the latest available central bank data show.
The economy expanded 7.5 percent in the three months through
June from a year earlier, the government reported on Aug. 29.  ‘Buying Opportunities’  Remittances from Filipinos working overseas, which are up
$572 million in the first half from a year earlier, may have
widened the current-account excess, according to a research note
today from Tim Condon, head of Asia research at ING in Singapore.  The Philippine currency has weakened 6.7 percent against
the dollar this year. That compares with losses of 14 percent
for  Indonesia ’s rupiah, 6.5 percent for Malaysia’s ringgit and
4.6 percent for the Thai baht, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We think the Philippines was victimized being in
Southeast Asia, where deteriorating external payments positions
in Indonesia, Malaysia and  Thailand  caused hot money to flee,”
Condon wrote in the note. “We think contagion has created
buying opportunities.”  ING predicts the peso will end the year
at 43.5 per dollar.  The yield on the government’s 8 percent bonds due July 2031
declined five basis points to 4.83 percent, according to prices
from Tradition Financial Services. That’s the lowest level since
Aug. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  