-- Pittsburgh Pirates Clinch First Winning MLB Season Since 1992
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-10T04:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/pittsburgh-pirates-clinch-first-winning-mlb-season-since-1992.html
The Pittsburgh Pirates clinched
their first winning Major League Baseball season since 1992 with
a 1-0 victory over the  Texas Rangers .  Rookie Gerrit Cole had a career-high nine strikeouts over
seven scoreless innings last night in Arlington, Texas, to
outpitch Yu Darvish of the Rangers. Pittsburgh scored its lone
run with two outs in the seventh inning on back-to-back doubles
by Marlon Byrd and Pedro Alvarez.  The Pirates improved to 82-61 with 19 games remaining and
are assured of ending their run of 20 consecutive losing seasons,
the longest in the four major North American professional sports.
Pittsburgh had lost a season-high four straight games before
last night’s win.  The Pirates are one game behind the first-place  St. Louis
Cardinals  in the National League Central Division and lead the
race for one of the NL’s two wild-card playoff berths. They last
reached the postseason in 1992, when they went 96-66 and lost in
the NL Championship Series for a third straight year.  The Rangers (81-62) lost for the fourth time in five games,
yet still lead the American League wild card standings and are
two games behind the Oakland Athletics in the AL West.  The  New York Yankees  lost 4-2 to the  Baltimore Orioles  last
night to slip three games behind the Tampa Bay Rays for the AL’s
second wild-card berth at 76-68.  Managers’ Spat  Managers Joe Girardi of the Yankees and Buck Showalter of
the Orioles engaged in a heated on-field verbal exchange after
the first inning. Both benches briefly emptied during the
incident, which stemmed from accusations that the Orioles were
stealing signs from Yankees catcher Austin Romine about which
pitches were being thrown.  “If I feel something, I’ll express it,” Showalter was
quoted as saying by MLB.com. “Simple as that. And Joe will, too.
I don’t get into the history or the protocol. It strikes a chord
in me and I stand accused. And so does Joe. We’ve got two good
teams and we’re competing for something very special with 19 or
20 games left, and nobody’s going to apologize here for caring
about giving both of our teams the best chance to win.”  Chris Tillman had nine strikeouts over seven innings to
pick up his 16th win of the season for the Orioles (77-66), who
are 1 1/2 games behind the Rays in the wild card race. Baltimore
is tied with the  Cleveland Indians , who defeated the Kansas City
Royals 4-3 yesterday.  One-Hitter  Gio Gonzalez of the Washington Nationals pitched a one-hit
shutout in a 9-0 win over the  New York Mets  and was backed by
five home runs. Gonzalez took a no-hitter into the seventh
inning before pinch-hitter Zach Lutz broke it up with a leadoff
single that looped onto the first base line.  Max Scherzer of the Detroit Tigers was denied his 20th win
of the season for the second straight outing, allowing five runs
over four innings in a 5-1 loss to the  Chicago White Sox .
Scherzer (19-3) has lost consecutive starts for the first time
this season.  The Tigers (82-62) have lost five of their past six games
and lead the AL Central by 4 1/2 games over the Indians.  The  Atlanta Braves  halted a four-game losing skid yesterday
with a 5-2 win over the  Miami Marlins  that pushes them past the
 Boston Red Sox  for the best record in the majors. The Braves
have an 86-57 mark, while the  Red Sox , who didn’t play yesterday,
are 87-58.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  