-- Portuguese Return to Farming to Counter Unemployment, Austerity
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-09-10T11:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/portuguese-return-to-farming-to-counter-unemployment-austerity.html
Portugal, a former subsistence-level farming economy that turned to banking and other services
after joining the European Union, is showing signs of going into
reverse as many city dwellers return to the land to counter a
precarious job market in the bailed-out country.  “What I have started to note is an economic reversal, a
return to the basics,” Jose Diogo  Albuquerque , the country’s
secretary of state for agriculture, said in an interview in
Lisbon. This back-to-the-land movement is being fueled by young
entrepreneurs with high-school and university degrees and
unemployed workers looking for “a way out,” he said.  The number of farming jobs rose  10.6 percent  in the second
quarter from the previous three months, the biggest increase out
of all sectors of the economy, the National Statistics
Institutes said on Aug. 7. That helped the country’s jobless
rate fall to 16.4 percent from a record 17.7 percent in the
previous quarter.  Farming was Portugal’s biggest industry in the 1950s,
accounting for almost a third of the country’s gross domestic
product, according to  data  compiled by the Bank of Portugal.
Portugal  joined  the EU in 1986 and since then economic growth
has mostly been driven by the services sector with farming,
forestry and fishing accounting for just 3.9 percent of economic
output, data compiled by the Ministry of Agriculture shows.  Austerity Measures  Fueled by 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion) a year of EU and
government grants for farm development, a growing number of
entrepreneurs are also turning to farming to make a living after
almost three years of recession and record unemployment amid
government austerity measures to meet the terms of Portugal’s
78-billion-euro bailout program.  An average of 280 entrepreneurs a month under the age of 40
started a new farming business in Portugal last year under an
EU-backed development program, called Proder, which provides
funds to help set up a farming businesses, according to
Albuquerque.  “When there are incentives for investment in a country
with a big farming potential, it’s like adding gasoline to the
sector,” said Albuquerque, who lived on a farm in Portugal
until the age of 12. “It makes things happen faster.”  Unused Land  Portugal is the world’s largest cork producer and the No.
12 wine producer. It’s also the fourth biggest processed tomato
exporter and produces 2 percent of the world’s olive oil,
according to data from the Ministry of Agriculture.  As food production increases in Portugal, “we have seen
people from other sectors of the economy coming to work in
farming,” Albuquerque said in the Sept. 5 interview. “There is
demand for jobs in farming.”  Albuquerque said the government plans to allow farmers to
grow crops on unused land and provide incentives to landowners
who work together to bolster output. The goal is to eliminate
the country’s 2.7 billion-euro food-trade deficit by 2020, he
said.  Portugal’s economy expanded 1.1 percent in the second
quarter from the first three months of the year, the first
increase since 2010, as export growth accelerated and the euro
area emerged from a record-long recession, the National
Statistics Institute said on Sept. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  