-- Pro Sports Unions Can Offer College Players Associate Membership
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r r y
-- 2013-09-10T18:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/pro-sports-unions-can-offer-college-players-associate-membership.html
Players unions for the  National
Football League  and  National Basketball Association  could help
top-level college athletes by offering them associate
memberships, sports labor lawyer  Jeffrey Kessler  said.  “You can’t organize college players into unions,” Kessler
said at the Bloomberg Sports Business Summit hosted by  Bloomberg
Link  in New York. “They’re not considered workers, the NLRB
won’t recognize them as workers. So it has to be an association
that’s not a union.”  Kessler said the basketball and players unions could look
into free associate memberships for college athletes to provide
advice and counsel. He has worked for both players’ unions.  Compensation of National Collegiate Athletic Association
athletes has been debated after the recent investigation into
whether Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback Johnny Manziel of
 Texas A&M University  accepted money from a memorabilia dealer
for items he autographed. NCAA rules bar such payments.  In addition,  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  faces a lawsuit from
former college athletes, who claim the company violated their
rights by using their images in its “NCAA Football” video
games without paying them or getting their permission.  “What role the pros can play is an interesting question,”
Kessler said. “There’s no question that in Division I men’s
basketball and at the top of football and women’s basketball as
well, basically these are students who are being asked to act as
professionals by their university without any real
compensation.”  Educating Players  Ron Klempner, deputy general counsel for the basketball
union, said he’s had conversations with current NBA players
about advising and educating at the college basketball level.  “I certainly hear that they want them to come into the
league and have a greater consciousness about the business and
about the union,” Klempner said.  Kessler said schools in major sports conferences are in a
business that’s different from the rest of the universities and
colleges that make up the NCAA’s membership.  “They want different rules, different policies to apply to
them,” Kessler said. “Because in the sports business world,
they are different animals.”  Chief concerns, Kessler said, would include getting fewer
restrictions on how schools can compensate athletes and
facilitate sponsorships.  “It’s not for the 2 percent who make it to the pros,
because that’s their payoff, but what about the 98 percent who
play three or four years and that’s the end of it,” he said.
“They’ve given all this revenue generation to the universities
and some of them come out without a degree.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  