-- Puerto Rico Reduces Financing Plan as Yield Penalty Doubles
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-09-10T16:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/puerto-rico-scales-back-financing-plan-as-yield-penalty-doubles.html
The Government Development Bank for
 Puerto Rico  said it expects to reduce its financing plans and
meet with investors after the extra yield on some commonwealth
bonds doubled in the past month.  Puerto Rico general-obligation bonds maturing in July 2040
and rated one step above junk traded yesterday to yield 10.08
percent, the highest this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The average yield was almost five percentage points above
benchmark munis, twice the level on Aug. 6.  The GDB, which handles the island’s capital-market
transactions, said in an e-mailed statement today that Puerto
Rico’s debt “is being evaluated incorrectly,” and is suffering
in part from higher borrowing costs marketwide after  Detroit 
filed a record bankruptcy filing in July. The statement comes
less than two weeks after the bank said it had closed two short-term loans.  “In light of the volatility in the market and the private
transactions that we have recently closed, we expect to scale
down our plan of financing for the rest of the year,” Jose Pagan, interim president of the bank, said in the statement.  New issues from Puerto Rico and its agencies won’t exceed
$1.2 billion through year-end, Betsy Nazario, a spokeswoman for
the GDB in  San Juan , said via e-mail.  Sales Ahead  The commonwealth had previously announced plans to sell
$600 million of general obligations as soon as this month to
repay loans used to balance last year’s budget, and then market
as much as $1 billion for the Puerto Rico Highways &
Transportation Authority.  Debt sold in Puerto Rico is tax-exempt in all U.S. states,
leading mutual funds nationwide to add it to holdings, including
state-specific funds. Puerto Rico is on the brink of speculative
grade amid recurring budget deficits and a pension system with a
lower funding level than that of any U.S. state.  Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 42, a member of the
Popular Democratic Party who took office in January, has moved
to bolster Puerto Rico’s finances.  He enacted a budget for the fiscal year that began July 1
that uses $750 million of deficit financing, the smallest amount
since at least 2009, according to the GDB. He has raised taxes
to help balance the budget, and pushed through laws to boost the
 retirement age  and require public workers to contribute more to
their pensions.  Economy’s Struggle  The yield jump shows investors aren’t recognizing that the
commonwealth’s general obligations have the first claim on the
island’s general-fund revenue, Pagan said. The bank plans to
hold an investor meeting in the next few weeks to discuss Puerto
Rico’s finances.  The commonwealth’s economy contracted 5 percent in the year
through July, the steepest reduction since 2010, according to
the GDB.  The island of 3.7 million people had about $70 billion of
public-sector debt as of March 31, according to the GDB. Net
tax-supported debt of $14,053 per capita last year was more than
in any state, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Investors are questioning whether Puerto Rico can reduce
its debt without restructuring given the shrinking economy, said
 Peter Hayes , head of munis at New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
which manages $114 billion of local debt.  “To grow your way out doesn’t seem likely,” Hayes said.
“So they’re left with the potential for some type of
restructuring and I think that’s what the market’s worried
about.”  Munis sold on the island have lost about 19 percent this
year, surpassing annual losses for the territory since at least
2000, according to Standard & Poor’s data. That’s almost four
times the 5.2 percent loss for the rest of the $3.7 trillion
municipal market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  