-- Batista’s MMX Shares Fall on Trafigura-Mubadala Deal: Rio Mover
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-09-10T20:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/trafigura-mubadala-agrees-to-buy-batista-s-iron-port-in-brazil.html
Shares of  Eike Batista ’s mining
unit  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3)  slumped while securities
linked to royalties of its Sudeste port jumped after the company
agreed to sell control of the terminal to Trafigura Beheer BV
and Mubadala Development Co. in a $400 million deal.  MMX  declined  17 percent to 1.89 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo  today, the biggest drop since July 12 and the worst-performer on  Brazil ’s benchmark Ibovespa  index , which slid 0.5
percent. The securities linked to future revenue of the Sudeste
port, called MMXM11,  surged  12 percent to 2.68 reais to close at
its highest since June 6.  Under a preliminary  accord  announced today, Amsterdam-based
commodities trader Trafigura and Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth fund
Mubadala will assume bank debt and royalties payment of the
securities, MMX said in a regulatory filing. Trafigura and
Mubadala would buy $400 million in new shares of the unit that
controls the port in exchange for a 65 percent stake, it said.  “It’s certainly positive for the MMXM11 holders, less so”
for the company’s shareholders, Mariana Bertone, an equity
analyst at GBM Grupo Bursatil Mexicano SA, said by telephone
from Sao Paulo. “They are negotiating just the port and without
the port, MMX is less valuable.”  Batista, 56, is selling pieces of his commodities and
logistics empire as the companies run out of cash and debt
swells amid an investor confidence crisis triggered by missed
targets at his oil unit OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA.  ‘Valuable Asset’  MMX, Brazil’s fourth-largest  iron-ore  producer, said in
June it was in talks to sell a stake or assets to companies
including Trafigura and Glencore, the largest publicly traded
commodities supplier. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Gonzalez 
said Aug. 15 that MMX was seeking to sell the entire company.  The port “is a very valuable asset; as a trader Trafigura
will be strategically well-positioned,” Rafael Weber, who helps
manage about 5.4 billion reais ($2.4 billion) at Geracao Futuro
Corretora, said by telephone from  Porto Alegre , Brazil. “I
don’t think any other port will be built there in 10 years so
all the miners in the Minas Gerais state will have to export
their iron ore through Sudeste.”  Sudeste, in Rio de Janeiro’s Sepetiba Bay, can handle as
much as 50 million metric tons of iron ore a year and is
scheduled to start operations in mid-2014, MMX said in the
filing. The company previously planned to start shipping by
year-end, providing a supply route for Brazilian mining and
metals companies including  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA .  ‘Debt-Free’  Victoria Dix, a Trafigura spokeswoman in Geneva, said they
don’t have any comment beyond today’s statement until
negotiations are completed.  The companies will negotiate exclusively in the next four
weeks to complete the agreement, MMX said.  “We firmly believe in Trafigura’s unparalleled capacity to
extract the full value of the Sudeste Superport,” Batista said
in today’s filing.  After the accord is completed, MMX will be able to ship 7
million metric tons of iron ore a year through Sudeste, with an
option expiring in mid-2015 to expand to 13 million tons. MMX
will also have the right to increase volume proportionally in
case the new controllers decide to double Sudeste’s capacity to
100 million tons a year, according to today’s agreement.  The mining business of MMX, which last year produced 7.4
million tons of iron ore, will be “essentially debt-free”
after the accord, the company said, without elaborating. MMX had
net debt of 2.56 billion reais at the end of last quarter,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  