-- Rainfall Aids Ukraine Rapeseed Planting, Erodes Russian Soybeans
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-09-10T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/rainfall-aids-ukraine-rapeseed-planting-erodes-russian-soybeans.html
Rainfall in recent weeks has
improved conditions for planting rapeseed in Ukraine, the
world’s third-biggest exporter, while eroding soybean crops in
far eastern  Russia , Oil World said.  Soil moisture levels have improved in Ukraine after rain
late last month, while remaining below last year’s level after
dry weather in preceding weeks, the Hamburg-based researcher
said in an e-mailed report today. Farmers planted about 461,000
hectares (1.14 million acres) of the oilseed as of Sept. 4,
compared with 731,000 hectares at the same time last year. Total
planting may be 924,000 hectares, down from 1.04 million a year
earlier, Oil World said, citing the government.  “Some late-August rains improved soil moisture, allowing
farmers to proceed with the planting of winter rapeseed crop to
be harvested in 2014,” Oil World said. “The local weather
service indicates that the precipitation currently forecast will
create optimal conditions for the planting of winter crops in
Ukraine.”  Russia’s soybean production may be a three-year low at 1.5
million tons, down from 1.8 million tons last year, Oil World
said. Almost 500,000 hectares were lost because of flooding in
the far eastern part of the country, the researcher said, citing
the Agriculture Ministry. About 231,000 tons of the oilseed were
collected as of Sept. 5, double last year’s pace because of
larger output in the Central and Southern federal districts.  “Heavy downpours and waterlogging of soils in the far east
of Russia have had a devastating impact on agricultural
production this year,” Oil World said. Rising output in western
Russia will “not offset the soybean crop losses shaping up in
the Far East Federal District.”  Oil World left its forecast for Russian sunflower seed
production unchanged at 9 million tons, compared with 8 million
tons a year earlier while below some private estimates of as
much as 11 million tons for this season, according to the
report. Sunflower seed crushing may be 8.4 million tons in
2013-14, near a record achieved two years earlier.  Ukrainian farmers harvested 1.3 million tons of sunflower
seed as of Sept. 3, Oil World said. The country’s crop may climb
to 9.6 million tons from 8.4 million tons a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  