-- Treasuries Remain Lower After Weaker-Than-Average Auction Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-09-10T17:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/treasuries-remain-lower-after-weaker-than-average-auction-demand.html
Treasuries remained lower after the
U.S. sale of $31 billion in three-year notes drew weaker-than-average demand.  The notes  yielded  0.913 percent, the most since May 2011,
compared with a forecast of 0.920 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of six of the Federal Reserve’s 21 primary dealers. The
 bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of debt offered, was 3.29, versus an average of
3.36 at the past 10 sales. Treasuries fell earlier as haven
demand waned amid signs of easing tension over Syria. The Fed
will weigh trimming asset purchases at a meeting next week.  “We’ve had a pretty dramatic move in yield since the last
auction, and now that we are here the auctions reflect future
expectations for monetary policy that until recently have been
pretty stable,” Tom Simons, an economist in New York at
Jefferies LLC, said before the sale. As a primary dealer, the
company must bid at U.S. debt auctions. “A weak auction
suggests the market is still confused about what the Fed may do
going forward.”  The  yield  on the current three-year note increased two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 0.87 percent at 1:06
p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. The
yields averaged 0.44 percent over the past year. Ten-year note
 yields  rose two basis points to 2.93 percent.  Auction Participation  Last month’s auction of three-year notes drew a yield of
0.631 percent.  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 33.1 percent of the notes sold today,
compared with an average of 27.4 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 20 percent of
the notes at the sale, compared with an average of 19 percent
for the past 10 auctions.  The Treasury Department cut the  size  of today’s three-year
sale from $32 billion, which had been the monthly auction amount
since October 2010.  Three-year notes have lost 0.7 percent this year, compared
with a decline of 3.8 percent by Treasuries overall, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The three-year
securities returned 0.6 percent in 2012, while Treasuries
overall gained 2.2 percent.  Today’s offering is the first of three note and bond
auctions this week totaling $65 billion. The government will
sell $21 billion in 10-year debt tomorrow and $13 billion in 30-year securities on Sept. 12.  The sales will raise $31.6 billion of new cash, as maturing
securities held by the public total $33.4 billion, according to
Treasury Department data.  Chemical Weapons  U.S. government securities fell earlier for the first time
in three days amid speculation a Russian proposal for Syria to
put its chemical weapons under international control will avert
a U.S. military strike. Haven demand also waned as data showed
 China ’s industrial output grew at the fastest pace in 17 months.  Ten-year yields approached 3 percent after reaching that
level last week for the first time since 2011 amid bets the Fed
will trim its $85 billion-a-month stimulus at its next meeting.  Yields dropped for the past two days on speculation a Sept.
6 report showing lower-than-forecast employment growth may
prompt the central bank to be less aggressive in curbing
stimulus this month.  Fed Purchases  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues will decide
at their Sept. 17-18 meeting to reduce purchases of Treasuries
to  $35 billion  from $45 billion while maintaining mortgage-bond
buying at  $40 billion , according to the median of 34 responses
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists on Sept. 6.  Russia urged  Syria  to turn over its arsenal of chemical
weapons to international control. The plan offers a possible
diplomatic solution to global tension after an Aug. 21 chemical-weapons attack that the U.S. and allies say was carried out by
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s forces.  France said it will submit the Russian proposal to the
United Nations Security Council, Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius
said. Interfax reported that al-Assad’s government accepted it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  