-- Record-Low Texas Water Reservoirs May Halt Cattle-Herd Expansion
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-09-10T22:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/record-low-texas-water-reservoirs-may-halt-cattle-herd-expansion.html
Cattle ranchers may ditch plans to
expand their herds in  Texas , the biggest U.S. beef producer, as
an expanding drought damages pastures and water reservoirs drop
to record lows, according to  Texas A&M University .  “We have had more dry years than wet years since 1996, and
the cumulative effect has been to reduce the cattle herd,”
 David Anderson , an agricultural economist at  Texas A&M , said in
a telephone interview from  College Station , Texas. “It all
starts with the dry weather and the impact it has on pastures,
crop development and keeping livestock watered. Everybody is
concerned about the depleted water supply.”  Reservoirs  may fall to the lowest on record in the next two
weeks, the state climatologist said today in a report. Severe to
exceptional  drought  conditions covered 65 percent of the state
on Sept. 3, up from 40 percent a year earlier, according to the
U.S. Drought Monitor.  Texas cattle producers who had reduced their herds to the
smallest since  1967  said in January that they planned to
 increase  the number of female cattle held out of feedlots by 9
percent from a year earlier, to begin rebuilding the calf herd,
U.S. Department of Agriculture data show.  Hot, dry weather during the past three months is scuttling
optimism that conditions would improve enough for expansion,
Anderson said. About 59 percent of the state’s  pastures  were in
poor or very poor condition on Sept. 8, up from 58 percent a
year earlier, the USDA said this week.  “The drought is going to get some producers to sell those
calves earlier to prevent further damage to pastures,” Anderson
said. “This dry pattern limits what cattle producers can do
relative to what they planned to do.”  Cattle futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange have
fallen 5.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  