-- Renault New Co-Chiefs Say First Job Is Completing Project
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-09-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/renault-new-co-chiefs-say-first-job-is-completing-project.html
Renault SA (RNO) ’s two new top executives
said they’ll focus completing the French carmaker’s strategy for
boosting cash flow and sales growth as Europe’s automotive
market lingers near a two-decade low.  “We will finalize the 2014-2016 plan before the end of the
year,” Thierry Bollore, who was appointed chief competitive
officer Sept. 9, said yesterday in an interview at the
International Motor Show in Frankfurt.  Bollore, 50, and Chief Performance Officer Jerome Stoll,
59, were promoted to their newly created positions in a
reorganization following the departure of Chief Operating
Officer  Carlos Tavares  last month. The executives pledged
yesterday to achieve the 2 billion-euro ($2.65 billion)
cumulative free cash-flow target that Boulogne-Billancourt,
France-based Renault set three years ago for the current
2010-2013 planning period.  The project for the coming three-year period, dubbed 2016
Drive the Change, will include goals of maintaining free cash
flow and guaranteeing the growth of Renault in markets beyond
Europe, where the group ranks third in sales.  “We aim to sell 55 percent to 60 percent of our vehicles
outside Europe by 2016,” Stoll, who will be responsible for
marketing and sales, said in a separate interview in Frankfurt.  Nissan Ties  Looking into further joint work with Japanese partner
 Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  will be key in yielding more savings, said
Bollore, who will oversee developing and manufacturing of
vehicles at Renault.  Both executives will report to Chief Executive Officer
 Carlos Ghosn , who also runs Yokohama-based Nissan and wants to
generate 4 billion euros in additional earnings between the two
manufacturers by 2016.  Stoll joined Renault in 1980 and previously handled group
sales. Bollore started his career at  Michelin & Cie. (ML)  in 1990 as
a shop manager in a heavy-truck tire factory and spent the
following 15 years at the company. He then joined the emission
and control technologies division of  Faurecia SA (EO)  in 2005 before
being hired by Renault in September of last year.  Renault eliminated the chief operating officer position
after the resignation of Tavares, who made public a wish to run
 General Motors Co. (GM)  or  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in an interview with
Bloomberg. The new management organization broadens the
operating responsibilities of Ghosn ahead of a decision next
year by the French automaker’s board on whether to extend the
CEO’s contract.  Bollore’s competitiveness group will be responsible for
creating an “attractive product range,” ensuring vehicle
quality and holding back costs, Renault said on Sept. 3. The
sales executives in the so-called performance group will focus
on market share and “profitability of sales.”  Tavares became COO two years ago after predecessor Patrick Pelata quit over a botched corporate spying investigation in
which three senior managers were wrongfully dismissed. Pelata
was the first person to hold the post, which was created in
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Frankfurt at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  