-- Republicans Accuse NRC of Stalling Yucca Review
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-09-10T16:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/republicans-accuse-nrc-of-stalling-yucca-review.html
House Republicans said the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission isn’t moving fast enough to resume
study of a nuclear-waste repository at Nevada’s Yucca Mountain,
saying the agency has the money.  “The NRC again appears to be stalling” in response to a
federal court’s decision last month directing the agency to
continue its safety review of the project, Representative John Shimkus of Illinois said at a House Energy and Commerce
subcommittee hearing in  Washington  today.  NRC Chairman Allison Macfarlane, who testified at the
hearing, said that while the agency has about $11.1 million in
unobligated funds to consider the review, it doesn’t have
sufficient money to complete the licensing process. The agency
is still assembling its estimate for the amount needed.  About 65,000 metric tons of spent-nuclear fuel are now
being stored at about 75 operating and closed reactor sites. In
the Senate, a bipartisan group of lawmakers has introduced
legislation to move forward with a nuclear-waste bill that
doesn’t specify whether the abandoned Yucca Mountain project
should be resumed.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit ruled Aug. 13 that the NRC must
continue its safety review for the facility, located about 100
miles (161 kilometers) northwest of Las Vegas. The agency halted
the evaluation after President  Barack Obama ’s administration in
2010 cut funding for the Yucca program, saying the project was
not a workable option. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, opposes the facility.  ‘Fiscally Responsible’  “Compliance with the law is not optional,” Energy and
Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, a Michigan Republican,
said. “Resumption of the Yucca Mountain program remains the
clearest, fastest and most fiscally responsible way” for the
government dispose of spent-nuclear fuel, he said.  “We of course intend to follow the law, we are now
following the law, we are moving forward,” Macfarlane said. The
agency is “moving as expeditiously as possible” to continue
its review, she said.  Shimkus, chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee
on Environment and the Economy, said the agency has the funding
to move forward with the Yucca project, which has cost taxpayers
and industry about $15 billion.  Revising Estimate  “You’ve confirmed in testimony that you have the funds
available” to release the safety review, he told Macfarlane.
“Are you going to comply with the law based on your previous
statements and the fact that you have money to do so?”  Macfarlane said the agency has asked its staff to begin
working on a revised estimate of what’s needed to complete the
study and that the agency is seeking input from interested
parties through the end of the month.  The court ruling neither resolved the question of funding
for the safety review, nor has it moved the U.S. toward a new
approach for dealing with the nation’s commercial nuclear waste,
according to Representative Henry Waxman, a California Democrat.  “The reality is that the court decision has not really
changed anything,” he said.  Macfarlane said yesterday that she would participate in
proceedings related to Yucca Mountain, over the objections of
officials in Nye County,  Nevada  -- where Yucca Mountain is
located -- who had sought her recusal due to her previous
academic work on the topic.  “I can state unequivocally that I have not reached any
conclusions, and I have an open mind” on the Yucca Mountain
licensing process, Macfarlane wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  