-- Richardson GMP Sees Assets Rising After Deal With Macquarie
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-09-10T20:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/richardson-gmp-sees-assets-climbing-after-deal-with-macquarie.html
     Sept. 10 (Bloomberg) --Richardson GMP Ltd., the partnership
between  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP)  and James Richardson & Sons Ltd., said
assets under administration may exceed C$30 billion ($29
billion) after its takeover of  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ’s Canadian
private-wealth business.  “We can easily clear C$30 billion” within 18 months,
Richardson GMP Chief Executive Officer Andrew Marsh said today
in a telephone interview from Toronto.  Richardson GMP agreed yesterday to buy Macquarie Private
Wealth  Canada  for C$132 million to expand its wealth-management
partnership. The transaction, expected to be completed in the
fourth quarter, will raise the firm’s assets under
administration to C$28 billion, from C$15.1 billion today.  “At C$28 billion, we have a meaningful stake and position
in the Canadian industry,” Marsh said.  GMP Capital  rose  6 percent today to C$6.40 in Toronto, the
most since July 3. Winnipeg, Manitoba-based James Richardson &
Sons is closely held.  Macquarie approached Richardson GMP to discuss a possible
sale in late May, Marsh said.  “There’s such a scarcity of opportunities to consolidate a
firm like Macquarie Private Wealth Canada,” Marsh said. “So to
that extent, going from C$15 billion to C$28 billion, you have
to look at that opportunity.”  Alternative Platform  Macquarie Private Wealth was created in January 2010 after
its Sydney-based parent purchased Blackmont Capital from  CI
Financial Corp. (CIX)  Under CEO Earl Evans, the firm had a goal of 225
to 250 advisers in Canada and about C$25 billion in assets under
management by the end of 2014.  The unit is being sold with more than 185 adviser teams in
12 offices in Canada, and C$12.9 billion of assets under
administration, Macquarie said yesterday in a statement.  Richardson GMP will sell C$90 million of stock to pay for
the takeover, the firm said yesterday. The rest will be financed
with a bridge loan from Macquarie, Marsh said.  DBRS Ltd., the Toronto-based rating company, said today in
a statement that it’s keeping the rating of GMP’s preferred
shares unchanged at Pfd-3 (low) with a negative trend, even as
the Macquarie assets will improve Richardson GMP’s
profitability.  ‘Diversifying Influence’  “DBRS views the private-wealth business as a diversifying
influence in GMP’s profitability profile, but this acquisition
does not overcome the fundamental capital market weakness
challenges, which are the primary reasons for the existing
negative trend,” the company said.  Richardson GMP will integrate Macquarie’s operations with
its 14 Canadian offices and 116 adviser teams while also
expanding through additional hiring, Marsh said.  “Over the next three years we can deliver really strong
financial results through our efforts, and making sure we’re
disciplined in running the business, but also grow,” Marsh
said. “We’ve become a very attractive platform for recruits to
look at a high-quality, independent alternative to the banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  