-- Ringgit Rallies as Easing Syria Concerns Boost Regional Stocks
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-09-10T02:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/ringgit-rallies-as-easing-syria-concerns-boost-regional-stocks.html
Malaysia’s ringgit headed for its
biggest two-day advance since May as speculation the U.S. will
hold back from a military attack against  Syria  fuelled demand
for emerging-market assets.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  index  of stocks climbed for a ninth
day, the longest rally this year. Russia’s bid to get Syria to
surrender its chemical weapons is a “potentially positive
development” that could avert a U.S. strike, President  Barack
Obama  said in an interview with NBC News yesterday. The ringgit
dropped 6.5 percent this year and Malayan Banking Bhd. forecast
in a report yesterday the weakness will boost the nation’s
exports, which rebounded in July after a five-month contraction.  “A lot of currencies that have been under pressure are
seeing some of the selling abating,” said Nick Verdi, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore .
“There’s more positive risk appetite generally.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.7 percent to 3.2685 per dollar
as of 10:13 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It climbed 1.8 percent in two days, the biggest gain
since May 6. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 25 basis
points to 9.65 percent.  A government report tomorrow may show factory output rose
4.9 percent in July from a year earlier, after climbing 3.3
percent in June, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The “immediate” export outlook for August is “positive”
amid a competitiveness boost from the weaker ringgit and
improving commodity prices, the Maybank report, whose authors
included chief economist Suhaimi Ilias, said. The lender expects
economic growth to quicken to 4.8 percent in the second half
from 4.2 percent in the first six months.  Government bonds  advanced. The yield on the 3.26 percent
notes due March 2018 dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 3.58 percent, the lowest level in almost three weeks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 