-- Roche’s Perjeta Works as Early Option for Breast Cancer
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-09-10T13:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/roche-s-perjeta-works-as-early-option-for-breast-cancer.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Perjeta helped
shrink early breast-cancer tumors, U.S. regulators said, a
benefit that may lead to less-invasive surgical treatment.  Perjeta, already on the market for women with advanced
breast cancer that has spread, showed promise in the early stage
of the disease, Food and Drug Administration staff said in a
 report  today ahead of a Sept. 12 meeting of agency advisers to
discuss the medication. Agency staff said cardiac concerns
should be studied in future clinical trials.  Expanded clearance would mark the first cancer medicine
approved in the U.S. as an initial step, which is referred to as
neoadjuvant therapy. Roche’s Genentech unit estimates about
15,000 women with HER2-positive early-stage  breast cancer  could
receive neoadjuvant treatment with Perjeta each year.  “Statistically significant improvements” in eradication
of tumor tissue were seen in patients receiving Perjeta compared
to those on Roche’s Herceptin, the FDA staff said.  Roche studied Perjeta’s ability to eradicate tumors when
used with the Basel, Switzerland-based company’s older breast-cancer drug Herceptin and chemotherapy. The FDA may decide by
the end of October whether to approve wider use of Perjeta.  Heart Safety  Agency staff said Roche should conduct additional research
on the effect of antibiotics used to destroy cancer cells on
patients’ heart safety and the response to the Perjeta regimen
depending on when the drugs are given.  The majority of people with HER2-positive early-stage
breast cancer who receive neoadjuvant treatment receive a
combination of Roche’s Herceptin and chemotherapy, Susan
Willson, a  Genentech  spokeswoman, said. Therapy prior to surgery
to attempt to shrink a tumor can conserve the breast opposed to
having a mastectomy, Sandra Horning, global head of clinical
development in hematology and oncology at Genentech, said in an
interview.  Roche is asking the FDA for expanded use of Perjeta under
accelerated approval, which is based on the likelihood the drug
works on the condition that he company does more research
typically to prove the drug extends disease-free survival.  The FDA released a  draft proposal  in May 2012 guiding
companies to use tumor eradication as a study goal to gain
accelerated approval for neoadjuvant breast cancer treatment.  Sales Potential  Perjeta, first approved for advanced breast cancer in June
2012, may generate sales of $1.9 billion in 2016, according to
the average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Herceptin brought in  revenue  of $6.3 billion last year. Roche
also is studying another treatment, Kadcyla, in the neoadjuvant
setting. Kadcyla, approved in February, is used with Herceptin
to treat HER2-positive breast cancer that has spread.  A gene mutation causes the body to create excess HER2
protein that promotes the growth of cancer cells, according to
the  Mayo Clinic . HER2-postivie breast cancer tends to be more
aggressive than other forms of breast cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  