-- Rohani Says Iran Plans to Restart Nuclear Talks in N.Y.
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-09-11T09:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/rohani-says-iran-plans-to-restart-nuclear-talks-in-new-york.html
Iranian president Hassan Rohani
said his government plans to restart nuclear talks with world
powers in  New York , where he will attend the  United Nations
General Assembly  this month.  The “serious talks” should help lead to a “win-win”
final outcome in the dispute over the Islamic republic’s nuclear
program, Rohani said in an interview on Iranian state-run
television yesterday. The negotiations will involve the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  and the so-called P5+1 group,
made up of the five permanent UN Security Council members in
addition to  Germany , he said.  “The nuclear issue will be resolved soon if the other side
is serious,” he said.  “The final result should be a win-win.
We are ready for it.”  Rohani, who succeeded President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  last
month, has pledged to ease international sanctions imposed by
Western powers, which accuse his country of developing nuclear
weapons. Iran says its program is for peaceful purposes. His
comments on the talks came a day after the UN’s atomic watchdog
said Iran was not cooperating with IAEA inspectors.  “Given the nature and extent of credible information
available to the agency about possible military dimensions to
 Iran’s nuclear program , it remains essential and urgent for Iran
to engage with us on the substance of our concerns,” IAEA
Director General Yukiya Amano said.  Gas Target  Rohani also said Iran plans to increase output of crude and
natural gas. The Islamic republic is the world’s sixth-biggest
oil producer and holds the largest proven gas reserves,
according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy published
in June. U.S., European and UN sanctions have hobbled  Iran ’s
energy industry, restricting oil exports and discouraging
foreign investment.  “Our gas production is not enough,” and Oil Minister
Bijan Namdar Zanganeh plans to boost gas output by 30 million
cubic meters a day by the end of the fiscal year ending March
20, Rohani said. The ministry is prioritizing development of the
South Pars gas field’s phases 12, 15, 16, 17 and 18, he said.  Iran projects an increase in oil production this year to 4
million barrels a day and is seeking to boost exports, Rohani
said. The country pumped 2.57 million barrels a day in August,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rohani plans a six-day visit to New York starting Sept. 22.
The European Union’s foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  plans
to meet Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif in New
York, the EU said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  