-- Tropical Storm Gabrielle Gains Strength as Winds Lash Bermuda
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-09-10T21:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/tropical-storm-gabrielle-gains-strength-as-winds-lash-bermuda.html
Tropical Storm Gabrielle grew
stronger as it began to lash  Bermuda , the  U.S. National
Hurricane Center  said.  Gabrielle’s top sustained winds are 60 miles (97
kilometers) per hour, up from 40 mph earlier today, according to
a 5 p.m.  New York  time advisory written by Michael Brennan, a
senior hurricane specialist at the center in Miami. A tropical
storm warning has been issued for Bermuda.  The system was 55 miles south of Bermuda and tropical-storm
strength winds of at least 39 mph were hitting the island,
Brennan wrote. The storm is expected to pass over or near
Bermuda in the next few hours and it may drop 4 inches (10
centimeters) of rain, the center said.  “They are going to get pretty good wind and rain
tonight,” said Dan Kottlowski, a meteorologist at  AccuWeather
Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . The forecast shows the
system reaching  Nova Scotia  by the end of the week and then
crossing Newfoundland, and Kottlowski said Gabrielle may
strengthen further on that path.  The current hurricane center forecast calls for Gabrielle’s
winds to peak at 65 mph in the next 12 hours. The threshold for
hurricane status is 74 mph.  The hurricane center is  also tracking  an area of disturbed
weather in the northwest Caribbean that is expected to move into
the Bay of Campeche off Mexico. There’s a 70 percent chance a
system will form in the next five days, the center said.  Southern Mexico  “Our gut feeling is that there will be at least a
depression or even a storm there by Friday night or Saturday,”
Kottlowski said.  That would mean southern  Mexico  will be hit by heavy,
tropical rains for the third time this season, he said. Some of
the precipitation may reach into southern  Texas .  Tropical Storm Humberto , now about 245 miles west of the
Cape Verde Islands with top sustained winds of 70 mph, is
expected to become the Atlantic season’s first hurricane later
today, the center said. Its current forecast track takes it
through the middle of the ocean far from land.  Eight tropical storms have formed in the Atlantic so far
this season, which began June 1 and runs through Nov. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  