-- Rubber Drops Most in 3 Weeks With Oil on Easing Syria Concerns
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-09-10T03:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/rubber-drops-most-in-3-weeks-with-oil-on-easing-syria-concerns.html
Rubber declined the most in three
weeks as  oil prices  dropped, cutting the appetite for the
commodity used in tires, amid speculation that the  U.S. Congress 
won’t endorse a strike against Syria.  Rubber for delivery in February lost as much as 2.1 percent,
the biggest drop for a most-active contract since Aug. 20, to
280 yen a kilogram ($2,812 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange. Futures traded at 280.4 yen by 12:05 p.m. local time,
down 7.3 percent this year.  West Texas Intermediate fell as much as 1.2 percent in New
York, extending yesterday’s 0.9 percent slide, as President
 Barack Obama  said he wasn’t confident he will get congressional
approval for a military strike. The drop in crude eased
speculation prices of competing synthetic products will increase.  Easing tension over Syria “is the reason why rubber prices
declined,” said Naohiro Niimura, a partner at research company
Market Risk Advisory Co. in Tokyo.  Russia’s plan to get Syria to surrender its chemical
weapons is a “potentially positive development” that could
avert U.S. action, Obama said in an interview with NBC News.  The contract for January delivery in  Shanghai  lost 1.6
percent to 20,535  yuan  ($3,355) a ton. Thai rubber free-on-board
gained 0.9 percent to 87.40 baht ($2.73) a kilogram yesterday,
according to data from the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand.  The country’s national rubber policy committee planned to
double its budget to 21.2 billion baht to subsidies production
costs for farmers, Deputy Prime Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong
said yesterday. Planned subsidy implies support of 12 baht per
kilogram, bringing the price of rubber to 90 baht, he said.  Thai farmers will meet today to consider whether to hold
rallies across the country’s southern provinces on Sept. 14.
They earlier threaten to step up protests if the government
fails to meet their demands to set a minimum price for ribbed
smoked sheet. Southern provinces account for about 80 percent of
production in  Thailand , the world’s top producer and exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net  