-- Rupiah Plunges by Most Since 2008 to Match Offshore Forwards
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-09-10T09:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/rupiah-plunges-by-most-in-almost-two-years-to-match-forwards.html
The rupiah tumbled by the most in
almost five years in onshore trading, converging with the
currency’s offshore forwards, on speculation  Bank Indonesia 
relaxed efforts to prop up the exchange rate.  The rupiah fell as much as 3.2 percent to 11,515 per dollar
in the biggest slide since November 2008 before paring losses to
trade 0.7 percent weaker at 11,235 per dollar as of 4:32 p.m. in
Jakarta, prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg show.
One-month non-deliverable forwards advanced 0.3 percent to
11,483 in Singapore, 2.2 percent weaker than the spot rate after
overlapping with it earlier. The discount averaged 5 percent in
the last two weeks.  “Bank  Indonesia  is allowing the spot rate to weaken,”
said Andy Ji, a foreign-exchange strategist at  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia (CBA)  in Singapore. “If you look for the fair value,
this looks like a normalization of the market, but I’m not
convinced this trend will continue.”  The rupiah has plunged 12 percent this quarter, the most
among 24 emerging-market exchange rates tracked by Bloomberg, as
Indonesia posted record current-account and trade deficits amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will soon cut stimulus. The
central bank has burned through $19.8 billion of foreign-currency reserves this year to support the exchange rate.  “We need to keep the rupiah exchange rate against the
dollar from weakening further,” President  Susilo Bambang
Yudhoyono  told reporters in Jakarta today. Bank Indonesia didn’t
respond to a text-message from Bloomberg seeking comment.  Global Sukuk  One-month implied volatility in the rupiah, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 19.89 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The trade deficit climbed to a record $2.3 billion in July,
while the current-account shortfall widened to $9.8 billion in
the second quarter, the largest in data compiled by Bloomberg
going back to 1989, official data show.  “The exchange rate is reaching an equilibrium,” said
Fahrudin Haris Prastowo, a trader at PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia in
Jakarta. “There’s less disparity now between the rupiah rates,
which will be positive for markets and local corporations.”  A  fixing  used to settle the rupiah forwards was set at
11,372 per dollar today, compared from 11,605 yesterday,
according to the Association of Banks in  Singapore .  The nation’s global Islamic bonds advanced after the
government said it is offering $1.5 billion of five-year sukuk,
according to Dahlan Siamat, Islamic financing director at the
debt management office. The yield on the 3.3 percent notes due
November 2022 fell 22 basis points to 6.62 percent, the most
since June 28, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Demand for the global sukuk should be good, so we see
dollar yields in the secondary market adjusting lower,” said
Mika Martumpal, head of treasury research and strategy at PT
Bank CIMB Niaga in Jakarta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  