-- S. African Rand Drops 1st Day in 5 as Current-Account Gap Widens
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-09-10T14:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/s-african-rand-drops-1st-day-in-5-as-current-account-gap-widens.html
The rand weakened for the first
time in five days, retreating from a four-week high, after  South
Africa ’s  current-account  gap widened more than expected.  The deficit reached 6.5 percent of gross domestic product
in the second quarter from 5.8 percent in the first three months
of the year, the  Reserve Bank  said in its quarterly bulletin,
released today in the capital,  Pretoria . The  median estimate  of
15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 6.2 percent.  “The sizable financing requirements of the current account
deficit will continue to add to the risk factors that are
already pulling the rand weaker,” Gina Schoeman, Johannesburg-based South Africa economist at Citigroup Inc., said in an e-mailed note.  South African exports have come under pressure amid a slump
in demand from  Europe  and strikes in the nation’s mining
industry that disrupted output and undermined growth in the
continent’s biggest economy. That’s contributed to the rand’s 15
percent plunge against the dollar this year, the most among 24
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The rand dropped 0.8 percent to 10.0355 per dollar by 3:13
p.m. in Johannesburg, the most since Aug. 28 on an intraday
basis. Yields on 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.33 percent today.
It may further ease to 10.60 per dollar by the end of the year,
Schoeman said.  “While a weaker currency typically helps narrow a current
account deficit, we believe this will take quite a bit longer
than usual given local production disruptions and lower global
demand,” Schoeman said.  Weak Demand  The average dollar price of South Africa’s non-gold-mining
export commodities fell 8.7 percent in the three months through
June, compared with an 8 percent gain in the first quarter,
according to the central bank. Weaker demand from emerging-market economies, such as  China , put pressure on prices, the
bank said.  South Africa has the world’s largest-known reserves of
platinum, used in the making of automobiles, and chrome and is
the fifth-largest producer of gold. Metals contribute to at
least 50 percent of the country’s exports, according to the
government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  