-- Seagate CEO Says He May Acquire Software Companies
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-09-10T20:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/seagate-ceo-sees-software-acquisitions-bolstering-cloud-offering.html
Seagate Technology (STX)  Plc, a maker of
storage drives, is on the lookout for software acquisitions that
can help it meet booming demand for cloud computing, said Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Luczo.  The company is determining where it has holes to fill and
what to potentially buy, Luczo said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. The CEO said he sees a bubble
in the valuation of cloud-storage providers, which could present
buying opportunities when it deflates, he said.  “We do need some technology that we don’t have on the
software side,” Luczo said. “When do you buy it and what you
pay for it is a different question. Right now it seems a little
frothy.”  Western Digital Corp. (WDC) , the world’s largest maker of hard-disk drives by market value, agreed yesterday to buy Virident
Systems Inc., a company backed by Seagate, for $685 million to
expand in flash storage. Flash is a preferred technology for
cloud computing because it’s faster and more efficient than
traditional spinning disks.  Earlier today,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest maker of
networking equipment, said it would buy  Whiptail , which makes
solid-state memory systems.  Shifting Strategy  Seagate, which has been making products based on the needs
of equipment manufacturers, is shifting its strategy to focus on
technology buyers, including cloud-service providers, Luczo
said. That will require software and silicon-based products,
which Seagate may have to buy.  “Having silicon technology in-house is really important,”
Luczo said. He didn’t name any companies that Seagate may
pursue.  Fusion-io Inc. (FIO) , a provider of flash-memory technology for
data centers,  surged  26 percent yesterday after the Virident
announcement, valuing the company at more than $1.3 billion.
Rival  Violin Memory Inc. (VMEM)  filed last month to raise as much as
$172.5 million in an initial public offering.  Storage startups have been raising big funding rounds on
the private market as well. Pure Storage Inc. was valued at more
than $1 billion in August in a $150 million financing round led
by investors including T. Rowe Price Group Inc. Nimble Storage
Inc. raised $40.7 million a year ago.  Seagate  rose  2.3 percent to $41.07 at the close in New York
time. The stock has gained 35 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  