-- SEC Probes Gold Fields on South African Black-Ownership Deal
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-09-10T12:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/sec-probes-gold-fields-on-south-african-black-ownership-deal.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  said the U.S.
Securities Exchange Commission is investigating an ownership
deal that helped the South African producer of the metal secure
a mining license. The shares fell to the lowest in a month.  The SEC is probing the transaction associated with the
grant of the mining permit for the South Deep operation near
Westonaria, 55 kilometers (34 miles) southwest of Johannesburg,
Gold Fields said today in a statement.  In 2010, Gold Fields agreed to issue 600,000 shares to a
black-owned group and allowed it to buy 10 percent of South
Deep. South African law requires mining companies to sell at
least 26 percent of their local operations to black citizens,
with transactions that benefit workers, communities near sites
and trusts for the poor being favored. Last year, the company
denied a news report by Johannesburg-based Carte Blanche that
the deal benefited influential people who helped it win the
license needed to continue operating the mine.  “Given the early stage of this investigation, it is not
possible to estimate reliably what effect the outcome this
investigation any regulatory findings and any related
developments may have on the company,” Gold Fields said.  The stock  dropped  for a seventh day, losing as much as 2.4
percent to the lowest intraday level since Aug. 8 and trading
0.6 percent lower at 51.95 rand by 2:06 p.m. in Johannesburg.
Before the announcement, the shares had gained as much as 1.2
percent.  Gold Fields’ primary listing is on the  Johannesburg Stock
Exchange . U.S investors can trade the stock through American
depositary receipts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  