-- Serbia Holds Rates in First Policy Decision After Cabinet
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-09-10T12:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/serbia-holds-rates-in-first-policy-decision-after-cabinet.html
Serbia ’s central bank kept
borrowing costs unchanged for a third month as inflation slows
and Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s revamped cabinet prepares to
overhaul public finances and kick-start the economy.  The Narodna Banka Srbije, based in the capital, Belgrade,
left its  one-week repurchase rate  at 11 percent, it said on its
website today. Eleven of 24 economists in a Bloomberg survey
predicted no change, 11 forecast a quarter-point reduction and
two saw a half-point cut.  “Inflationary pressure continued to subside on lower food-production costs caused by a favorable agricultural season in
the country as well as globally,” the bank said in an e-mailed
statement. Inflation will return to the target range of 4
percent plus or minus 1.5 percent next month, it said.  The poll-leading Serbian Progressive Party, led by former
nationalists, and the Socialists of Prime Minister Ivica Dacic
brought in former McKinsey & Co. associate Lazar Krstic last
week to serve as finance minister. They replaced  Mladjan Dinkic 
after economic growth slowed to 0.7 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter from 2.1 percent in the first.  The dinar traded 0.3 percent weaker at 115.3018 per euro at
1:39 p.m. in Belgrade, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Yields
on dollar-denominated state debt due 2021 fell 6 basis points,
or 0.06 percentage point, from yesterday to 7.343 percent.  Economic Recovery  The Balkan nation’s economy is on the mend after two
recessions in three years, buoyed by rising exports and growing
agricultural output. The central bank is forecasting gross
domestic product will increase 2 percent in 2013, accelerating
to 2.5 percent next year.  The recovery that began late last year “has continued with
a significant reduction in external imbalances, rising exports
and bigger industrial output,” the bank said today.  The decision to keep the rate unchanged is also based on
external factors such as increased  risk aversion  on  capital
markets  after a possible reduction in U.S. monetary stimulus, it
said. The central bank reduced borrowing costs in May, then left
them unchanged in June and July.  The benchmark will probably be cut in the coming months
“to follow the falling inflation rate,” Milutin Milojevic, a
director for asset management and financial markets at NLB Banka
AD, said in an e-mailed comment. Policy makers held off for now
because of pressure on the dinar and “a lack of clarity” about
the new cabinet’s fiscal policy.  IMF Pact  Serbia is under pressure to shrink spending and clinch a
new agreement with the  International Monetary Fund  to backstop
its public finances and restore investor confidence. The fund,
which refused to discuss a new deal in May after the nation
slipped on its fiscal commitments, urged restraint in policy
easing while fiscal consolidation is implemented.  The government needs to narrow the  budget deficit , which
may reach 5.1 percent of GDP this year, above an already revised
target of 4.7 percent, Fiscal Council Chairman Pavle Petrovic
told state-run broadcaster  RTS  late yesterday. Krstic sees the
gap at 6.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  