-- Shell Sells Forties at Higher Prices; Lukoil Buys Urals Crude
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-09-10T16:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/shell-sells-forties-at-higher-prices-lukoil-buys-urals-crude.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  sold two
cargoes of North Sea Brent crude at higher prices than
yesterday. OAO Lukoil bought Russian Urals blend in the
Mediterranean at a lower differential than its bid yesterday.  North Sea Cormorant East and Causeway oil fields were shut
because of planned maintenance at North Cormorant platform,
Antrim Energy, which has an interest in both deposits, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  North Sea  Shell sold Forties cargo F0911 for Sept. 22 to Sept. 24
loading to  BP Plc (BP/)  at $1.09 a barrel more than Dated Brent,
according to a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts pricing window. Shell sold a cargo
yesterday for Sept. 19 to Sept. 21 at a premium of 30 cents.  BP bought a second consignment F1001 for Oct. 5 to Oct. 7
from Shell at 65 cents a barrel more than Dated Brent, the
survey showed. This shipment was advanced by one day from the
original plan.  Brent for October settlement traded at $111.25 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $114.67 from the previous session. The November
contract was at $109.98, a discount of $1.27 to October.  Production at Cormorant East and Causeway is expected to
halt for about six weeks. Combined average output of the two
fields is about 2,500 barrels a day this year, according to data
from the Department of Energy and Climate Change.  Urals/Mediterranean  Lukoil bought 80,000 metric tons of Urals for Sept. 26 to
Sept. 30 loading from Vitol Group at 5 cents a barrel less than
Dated Brent on a delivered basis to Augusta,  Italy , the survey
showed. This compares with a bid yesterday at parity.  No bids or offers for Urals were made in northwest Europe.  Crude supply to Libya’s Zawiya refinery is expected to
resume today, Mansur Abdallah, oil movement coordinator at the
plant, said by telephone. The main valve controlling flows from
Sharara and Elephant, or El Feel, fields remained shut.  PT Pertamina decided not to award its third tender in two
weeks seeking condensates for the TPPI petrochemical plant in
Tuban, East Java, according to an official at  Indonesia ’s state-owned oil company.  Jakarta-based Pertamina sought shipments, including Libya’s
Mellitah, for October and November delivery in a tender that
closed yesterday.  It didn’t award a similar tender that closed Sept. 2 and
received no offers in a request Aug. 26 for September and
October, said the official who asked not to be identified
because he isn’t authorized to speak to the media.  OAO Rosneft is expected to announce the result of its six-month tender for Urals and CPC Blend tomorrow, said two traders
who participated in the bidding.  West Africa  BP offered earlier today 950,000 barrels of Nigerian Qua
Iboe at $6 a barrel more than Dated Brent for Sept. 11 to Sept.
12 delivery to Rotterdam, or at a premium of $5.85 for delivery
to Lavera,  France , in the same period, according to the survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  