-- South African Yellow Corn Falls for Sixth Day on Slow Exports
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-09-10T13:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/south-african-yellow-corn-falls-for-sixth-day-on-slow-exports.html
South African yellow-corn futures
fell for a sixth day, the longest streak of declines since
February, after exports of the grain remained near the lowest
level in four weeks.  Shipments of yellow corn were 33,334 metric tons for the
week ended Sept. 6, the Pretoria-based South African Grain
Information Service said on its website today. That was a climb
of 1.6 percent from the prior period, when exports were the
lowest since the week ended Aug. 2, according to SAGIS data.  “Our yellow-maize exports were not that big for the
week,” Benjamin Swanepoel, a trader at Trademar Futures (Pty)
Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg, using another name for
corn. “That dragged prices lower.”  Yellow corn for delivery in December, the most active
contract, slid 0.3 percent to 2,155 rand ($215) a metric ton by
the noon close on the South African Futures Exchange in
Johannesburg. The run of drops is the longest since Feb. 12,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. White corn for the same
delivery month fell 0.2 percent to 2,331 rand a ton.  South Africa , the continent’s largest corn grower, is on
course to produce more of the yellow variety than white for the
first time since 1995, according to the government’s  Crop
Estimates Committee . The panel on Aug. 27 raised its forecast
for yellow-corn output in the marketing year through April by
5.1 percent to 5.93 million tons.  Yellow corn is used mainly as  animal feed  in South Africa,
while a meal made from the white variety is one of the nation’s
staple foods.  Wheat for delivery in December gained 0.5 percent to
3,387.40 rand a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  