-- South Africa’s ‘Vague’ Oil-Law Changes Seen Deterring Investment
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-09-10T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/south-africa-s-vague-oil-law-changes-seen-deterring-investment.html
South Africa risks deterring
investors in its oil resources by proposing “vague” amendments
to mineral and energy legislation, according to New York-based
consultants Horizon.  “Over the last two years, South Africa has witnessed
unprecedented interest from international oil majors,” Anne Fruhauf, director of Africa energy at Horizon, said by e-mail.
“But the Mineral Resources Development Act amendments could nip
this nascent boom in the bud.”  Lawmakers will hold four days of public hearings starting
today on the proposed amendments, which are aimed at removing
ambiguities in the 2002 law. While  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  have stakes in offshore blocks, extraction is
yet to take off. The country imports 70 percent of its oil
needs, processing the remainder of its fuels from coal and gas.  The amendment bill is “fraught with vague and uncertain
language,” Jonathan Veeran, a partner at Johannesburg-based law
firm Webber Wentzel, said in an e-mail. “Rather than address
the problems” in the act “the bill in fact exacerbates them.”  No one at the Department of Mineral Resources was available
for comment. Minister of Mineral Resources Susan Shabangu said
Aug. 28 that the bill “is not intended to strangulate
investment opportunities” but rather to attract investors.  Bolster Economy  South Africa , isolated from foreign investment until
apartheid ended in 1994, is seeking to develop its oil resources
to diversify and buoy an economy that expanded an annualized 3
percent in the second quarter compared with 0.9 percent in the
first, which was the slowest rate since a 2009 recession.  Planned changes to the 2002 act would allow the country to
force mine operators to process some output locally and give the
state stakes in new oil and gas projects. South Africa would be
able to appoint two directors to companies with new energy
projects and declare some minerals strategic to secure supplies.  “The biggest problem with the bill isn’t a particular
clause, it is the combination of potentially onerous, vaguely
defined clauses,” Fruhauf said. “The percentage of state
participation in upstream ventures is not specified and neither
are ‘designated minerals,’ yet the bill would grant the minister
vast amounts of discretion in defining everything.”  South  Africa  is also looking to exploit its shale reserves,
which could be the world’s eighth-biggest, the U.S. Energy
Information Administration said in June.  Responsible Development  The “shale-gas industry needs a regulatory environment, as
with all hydrocarbon extraction, which allows for the
responsible development of South Africa’s resources in line with
the wishes of the government,” Dineo Pooe, a spokeswoman for
Shell, said by e-mail. The company, waiting for a shale-gas
exploration license, has already been permitted to look for oil
and gas offshore in the Orange Basin near the Namibian border.  South Africa’s offshore industry is particularly dependent
on a positive response to the bill because it’s a “frontier
market” where exploration costs are high, Johannesburg-based
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  said in a public comment this month.  The current-account deficit widened to 6.5 percent of gross
domestic product last quarter as a weaker rand failed to damp
imports and boost exports, according to the  Reserve Bank . The
gap on the current account, a measure of trade in goods and
services, could be reduced to -0.9 percent, the bank calculated
using a model of offshore production at 450,000 barrels a day.  “It becomes very difficult to draw up business plans when
so many terms are fundamentally vague and subject to future
ministerial revision,” Fruhauf said. “The preferred outcome of
many upstream operators, onshore or offshore, would be for the
Department of Mineral Resources to drop all upstream elements
from the bill and to draft separate petroleum legislation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  