-- Wheat Gains on Improving Demand; Corn Rises; Soybeans Decline
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-09-10T15:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/soybeans-drop-for-second-day-as-midwest-rain-may-boost-harvest.html
Wheat gained on mounting signs that
global demand is improving after prices tumbled last month to a
four-year low. Corn advanced as dry, hot weather reduced U.S.
yield potential. Soybeans fell.  Sales of U.S. wheat in the past three months surged 38
percent from last year, and export licenses issued by the 28-nation EU more than doubled, government data show. World
 inventories  will drop to a five-year low by June 30 even as
farmers harvest a record crop, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said Aug. 12. U.S. soft, red winter wheat in cash
markets is 31 percent cheaper than a year ago, data from the
Minneapolis Grain Exchange show.  “The wheat market is responding to the improving global
export trade,” Greg Grow, the director of agribusiness at
Archer Financial Services Inc. in Chicago, said in a telephone
interview. “We are seeing a lot of the extra wheat supplies
getting scooped up by countries looking to rebuild food
reserves.”  Wheat futures for delivery in December gained 1 percent to
$6.475 a bushel at 10:42 a.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. The
grain, last year’s best-performing commodity, has tumbled 17
percent this year.  Corn rose in Chicago on speculation that hot, dry Midwest
 weather  the past month expanded drought conditions, reducing
U.S. production, Grow said.  About 54 percent of the  corn  crop was rated good or
excellent on Sept. 8, down from 56 percent a week earlier and 64
percent a month ago, the USDA said yesterday. About 52 percent
of the U.S. soybean crop was rated in good or excellent
 condition , compared with 54 percent a week earlier and 64
percent on Aug. 11, the agency said.  Corn futures for December delivery added 0.7 percent to
$4.6675 a bushel in Chicago, erasing a drop of 0.6 percent. The
grain declined 34 percent this year through yesterday.  Soybean futures for November delivery slid 0.2 percent to
$13.5425 a bushel on the CBOT.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, followed by soybeans, hay
and wheat, USDA data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  