-- SQM’s Ponce Facing Chile Trading Breach Charges; Shares Fall
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-09-11T20:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/sqm-s-ponce-accused-of-trading-rule-breaches-by-svs-in-chile.html
Soc. Quimica & Minera de Chile SA’s 
controller Julio Ponce and three other executives at the
fertilizer producer’s holding companies are being accused by
Chile’s securities regulator of buying shares at below market
prices and selling them back at inflated prices.  Ponce has 20 days to respond to charges related to trades
carried out between the so-called cascade companies through
which he controls SQM, the regulator known as SVS said  in a
statement  on its website yesterday. The executives --including
Aldo Motta, chief executive of  Norte Grande SA (NORTEG) , and Ponce
adviser Roberto Guzman-- will face sanctions if the breaches are
verified, the regulator said. SQM shares slumped today.  The accusations come as Ponce prepares to seek approval for
two of the holding companies to sell new shares at meetings
scheduled for  Sept. 27 . The capital increase is part of an
effort to satisfy holders of debt secured by SQM shares that
plunged last month on prospects of declining potash prices. The
SVS charges risk impeding the restructuring plan Ponce needs to
shore up $1.5 billion of debt, according to Moneda Asset
Management, a minority shareholder fighting the plan.  “We envisage that this will block the shareholder
meetings,” Pedro Pablo Gutierrez, a Moneda director, said by
telephone yesterday. “These are very serious infringements.”  Motta wasn’t available to respond to the accusations, an
assistant said by phone. Ponce declined to comment through an
assistant, who asked not to be named citing internal policy. SQM
has no comment on the matter, said a public relations
representative, who asked not to be named citing company policy.  Yearlong Probe  SQM, the region’s biggest potash producer and the world’s
largest iodine and lithium maker, declined 1.8 percent to 15,907
pesos in Santiago today.  Chile ’s benchmark equity index gained
0.3 percent.  After a yearlong probe, the SVS is focusing on trades
carried out from 2009 to 2011 between the holding companies and
Ponce’s closely held SQ Inversiones SA, the regulator said in
yesterday’s statement, without identifying the transactions. The
companies made $6.4 billion of trades among themselves in that
span, Moneda wrote in an Aug. 2 letter to the regulator.  On March 29, 2011, Soc. de  Inversiones Oro (OROB)  Blanco SA sold
163 million Soc. de Inversiones  Pampa Calichera (CALICH)  SA shares at 726
pesos, 10 percent below the previous day’s price, to Norte
Grande and SQ Inversiones. On Nov. 7 of the same year,  Potasios
de Chile SA (POTASIOA)  bought 151 million shares in Calichera for 1064.53
pesos while SQ Inversiones sold 137 million at 1065 pesos.  Share Sales  Companies related to Ponce and Guzman sold shares at
“significantly higher prices” than market value to the
detriment of the holding companies that bought them, the SVS
said. The trades affected the correct functioning of  capital
markets , it said.  Since 2007, Ponce has tripled consolidated debt at Norte
Grande, the company through which he controls 32 percent of SQM.
Most of the bank loans and bonds were guaranteed using shares in
SQM, which has slumped 42 percent this year as suppliers that
controlled almost half of the world’s potash exports suspended
their marketing venture.  Norte Grande will call a shareholder vote to sell $177
million in new shares, while Oro Blanco plans to sell $290
million, according to separate filings sent Aug. 29.  Ponce wrote in a letter to the securities regulator on Aug.
2 that the drop in SQM shares “has left Norte Grande and its
affiliates in a delicate financial and credit situation.”  The SVS’s case against the SQM holding companies shows
Chile’s institutions work, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told
reporters today in  London , where he is helping promote the
country to prospective investors.  “These kinds of things happen everywhere, both in
developed and developing markets,” Santiago-based newspaper
Diario Financiero cited Larrain as saying on its website.  “I’d
say that it doesn’t affect confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  