-- Citigroup Joins HSBC in Mulling Shanghai Free Trade Zone
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-10T10:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/standard-chartered-to-hsbc-mull-shanghai-s-free-trade-zone-plan.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  signaled interest in a proposed free
trade zone for Shanghai as  China ’s leaders seek to revamp the
world’s second-largest economy to bolster growth.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender, will seek a
“leading role” in developing the zone, James Griffiths, a Hong
Kong-based spokesman, said by e-mail today. Standard Chartered
is “committed to contributing to the further development” of
the program, it said in a statement. HSBC is also interested in
establishing a presence there, spokesman  Gareth Hewett  said.  Attracting international lenders will help China achieve
its goal of making Shanghai, a port city with more people than
Greece and Portugal combined, a global finance hub by 2020. The
zone, which in addition to foreign trade will feature looser
rules on matters such as interest rates and business licenses,
is part of Premier Li Keqiang’s drive to sustain growth by
shifting the economy toward services and consumption.  “The Shanghai free trade zone has to be a place that
allows banks to operate on an equal footing with banks in Hong
Kong,  London , or New York,” Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., wrote in an e-mail.
“Internationalization of the  renminbi  and a relaxation of
restrictions on foreign banks, brokers, and insurance companies
so that these companies have a business reason to want to set up
shop in the free trade zone” will be important, he said.  China announced last month its cabinet had approved the
plan to set up the nation’s first such zone on 29 square
kilometers (11 square miles) in Shanghai, calling it a crucial
move in adapting to global economic and trade development, while
further opening up the world’s second-largest economy.  Market Rates  Policy makers may allow free conversion of the yuan under
the capital account and market-oriented interest rates on a
trial basis in the zone, according to a draft plan seen by
Bloomberg News. Qualified foreign banks may be allowed to set up
branches or joint ventures with local lenders in the area, while
some Chinese banks may offer offshore services, according to the
draft.  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co. (600000) , which is controlled
by the local government, jumped 8.3 percent today. The stock has
surged 35 percent since Aug. 22, when China’s Ministry of
Commerce reiterated the approval of the free-trade area. Pudong
Bank officials didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  HSBC gained 0.3 percent in Hong Kong, while Standard
Chartered climbed 1.9 percent. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) 
gained 1 percent.  ‘New Opportunities’  HSBC has been approached by the China Banking Regulatory
Commission about offering banking services in the zone,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. A press
official at the Shanghai branch of the CBRC declined to comment.  The regulator solicited foreign banks including London-based HSBC and Standard Chartered for feedback on how they want
to open operations in the area, the South China Morning Post
reported today.  Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23) , based in Hong Kong, also plans to
set up an institution in the area, it said today.  “The establishment of the Shanghai free trade zone will
bring a range of new opportunities and we have confidence in the
mainland China market,” Carmen Lee, a spokeswoman in Hong Kong,
said in an e-mailed response to queries. “We will continue to
maintain a long-term commitment to local development, which will
include a plan to set up an appropriate institution in the free
trade zone based on regulatory conditions.”  Faster Growth  The project could have broader implications for the
structure of China’s economy, according to Wendy Tang, a
Shanghai-based analyst at Northeast Securities Co.  “You can’t separate financial development from the free
trade zone,” she said by phone today. “Apart from making it a
trial zone for interest rate liberalization and private
investment in the financial industry, probably the entire
Yangtze Delta region led by Shanghai will see faster growth in
sectors such as trade and shipping.”  Shanghai’s  economy  has expanded by about a third since 2009
to more than 2 trillion  yuan  last year, larger than any other
Chinese city and ranked No. 10 in the world, according to the
local government. Still, its GDP growth has lagged behind the
national rate since 2009, when the country grew at a rate of 7.7
percent to 10.4 percent.  The project will “upgrade Shanghai’s core competitiveness
and boost its status as a global financial, trade, shipping and
logistics center,” Barclays Plc’s Hong Kong-based economist
Chang Jian wrote in a note on Sept. 6.  The zone will be built on the basis of the city’s four
existing bonded trade zones, according to the government.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in  Shanghai  at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  