-- Swedes Face Forced Deleveraging as Debt Swells to Record
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-09-11T09:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/swedes-urged-to-cut-record-debt-loads-in-new-bank-oversight-plan.html
Sweden  is looking into the option
of forcing households to start amortizing their mortgages in an
effort to prevent debt loads rising from a record.  “We want to make clear that the next step, should we judge
that we have to take it, rather is amortization than something
else,” Martin Andersson, director-general at the Swedish
Financial Supervisory Authority, told reporters yesterday after
a parliament hearing in Stockholm. “If household debt
accelerates, as we’ve seen before, well, then we must do
something.”  Swedish apartment prices have more than doubled since 2000,
sparking concern a housing bubble may be brewing after private
debt hit a record last year. A report in March from the
Financial Supervisory Authority showed that, at the current pace
of amortization, it takes Swedish households 140 years on
average to repay their home loans. Only 40 percent of borrowers
with mortgages smaller than 75 percent of their property’s value
actually pay down their debt, according to the report.  The government and central bank say the development has
left households vulnerable to financial shocks. Sweden is
already pursuing stricter regulatory standards for  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and SEB AB than those
set elsewhere in an effort to protect the  economy  from a bank
industry that’s four times its size.  Credit Growth  The central bank has sought to tame debt growth by keeping
its  main lending rate  higher than the rate of  inflation  alone
would warrant. The bank estimates private debt will swell to a
record 177 percent of disposable incomes in 2015. Governor
Stefan Ingves said yesterday the Riksbank should continue to
monitor household debt when deciding monetary policy.  Since the global financial crisis started more than five
years ago, Sweden’s FSA has taken multiple steps to try to curb
financial industry risks, in part after credit growth exceeded
levels the government said were safe.  In October 2010, the regulator capped mortgages at 85
percent of a property’s value and this year it raised risk
weights on mortgage assets to 15 percent from as low as 5
percent. Ingves has argued they should be raised to 20 percent.  While the mortgage cap helped slow  credit growth  to 4.5
percent last year from above 10 percent between 2004 and 2008,
the pace of borrowing has started to accelerate again. Household
credit grew 4.8 percent in July versus 4.7 percent in June and
May. It was 4.6 percent in April.  ‘Completely Right’  Forcing households to amortize “is completely the right
thing because it addresses the problems on the housing market
more directly than the capital buffers,” said  Roger Josefsson ,
chief analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Stockholm. The FSA has
“become clearer that it’s a problem,” he said.  The Riksbank and the financial regulator have clashed
openly over which body should have the main responsibility for
limiting systemic risk in Sweden. The government’s proposal last
month to hand macro-prudential oversight to the FSA marks a
defeat for Ingves, who had argued that the central bank is best
suited to handle such supervision.  “The Riksbank’s mandate remains unchanged,” Ingves, who
is also chairman of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,
said yesterday. “This means that the Riksbank still has
responsibility for safeguarding financial stability. It is now
fairly urgent to ensure a Swedish toolbox is in place to be able
to manage various risks to financial stability.”  ‘Vulnerable’ Swedes  The government last month unveiled plans to raise capital
requirements for Sweden’s biggest banks from levels that already
exceed standards elsewhere. The measures are needed to protect
Swedes left “vulnerable” to financial shocks because of the
country’s large banking system, Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman said yesterday.  Both Ingves and Andersson said yesterday Swedish banks will
probably need to add a countercyclical buffer to existing
requirements. Swedish bank core Tier 1 capital must be at least
12 percent of risk-weighted assets by 2015, a requirement the
country’s four biggest lenders already exceed.  The countercyclical buffer should be “probably
significantly higher than zero,” irrespective of the economic
cycle, Ingves said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  