-- Swiss Re Says New Reinsurance Capital Not Posing Systemic Risk
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-09-10T07:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/swiss-re-says-new-reinsurance-capital-not-posing-systemic-risk.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s No. 2
reinsurer, doesn’t see near-record capital inflows to the
reinsurance market from new investors such as pension funds
causing  systemic risk .  “If you detach the actual risk takers too much from those
who understand it, I think there is a risk, but so far it’s very
limited,” Christian Mumenthaler, head of Swiss Re’s reinsurance
business, said in an interview in  Monte Carlo  yesterday. “If
there is a big loss, pension funds would have an invisible hit
as they only allocate a very small fraction of their capital, so
I can’t see a systemic component.”  The  insurance industry  must avoid systemic problems that
arose in the banking industry during the financial crisis, when
capital became detached from underlying risks,  John Nelson ,
chairman of Lloyd’s of  London , the world’s oldest insurance
market, said in a  speech  last week. Some structures being used
could undermine qualities of the insurance model, which provides
a “secure and reliable risk transfer market for specialist
risk,” he said.  The reinsurance industry may attract about $100 billion of
new capital from sources such as pension funds and  hedge funds 
over the next five years, according to Aon Benfield, the
reinsurance broker of  Aon Plc. (AON)  Capital accumulated by reinsurers
stood at a near-record of $510 billion at the end of June,
according to the broker.  “You could start to see a systemic risk emerging if a lot
of pension funds allocate money into catastrophe reinsurance at
all costs and somebody is just an intermediate and says ‘OK if
you’re sure I do it,” Mumenthaler said. “But that’s not how
the market is today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  