-- Swiss Stocks Gain to Two-Week High on China Data, Syria
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-09-10T08:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/swiss-stocks-gain-to-two-week-high-on-china-data-syria.html
Swiss stocks  advanced to a two-week
high as Chinese industrial production and retail sales exceeded
forecasts and the U.S. said it would postpone plans for a strike
on Syria if the nation surrenders its chemical weapons.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  added 2.8 percent after Chief
Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  told the Financial Times that
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank is aiming for lower though
more sustainable returns.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  gained 2.4
percent.  Partners Group Holding AG (PGHN)  tumbled 5.7 percent after the
money manager reported results.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 1.1 percent to 8,024.21 at
10:49 a.m. in Zurich, the highest since Aug. 26. The gauge has
still lost 4.6 percent since May 22 as the Federal Reserve said
it may pare bond purchases if the economy improves sustainably.
The broader Swiss Performance Index surged 1.1 percent today.  “The recent data out of China has been signaling a bit of
a recovery,” Mark Harris, a London-based  fund manager  at City
Financial, which has $1.2 billion under management, said in a
interview. “You’re beginning to see traction globally. This is
an opportunity to buy cyclical stocks even though I do expect
some sort of a contained pull-back this year and volatility may
pick up.”  China’s  industrial output  rose 10.4 percent in August from
a year earlier and retail sales gained 13.4 percent, the
National Bureau of Statistics said today. The advance in
industrial production topped the median estimate for 9.9 percent
growth in a Bloomberg survey. The retail-sales figure compared
with a projection for 13.3 percent advance.  Syria Strike  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said in an interview with NBC
News he isn’t confident that he’ll get congressional approval
for a military strike against Syria. Obama, who will address
Americans on the matter tonight, said a Russian proposal to
convince Syria to give up its chemical weapons is a
“potentially positive development,” while expressing
skepticism on whether President Bashar al-Assad’s government
will follow through.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 49 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  