-- Syrian Conflict: Sept. 10 Digest of Middle Eastern Editorials
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-09-10T11:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/syrian-conflict-sept-10-digest-of-middle-eastern-editorials.html
The following is a round-up of
editorial comment across the  Middle East  as world powers debate
whether to carry out punitive strikes against Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s government for its alleged use of chemical
weapons last month. Assad denies the charge.  * Syria   Baath   State-run Baath newspaper said first impression is that
Syria’s “quiet and flexible diplomacy has successfully overcome
the test and has once again been able to prevent the strongest
pretexts” that Obama used to seek war.  Lavrov’s proposal “won’t be big enough for Kerry’s
ambitions or achieve all his expectations.  ‘‘Everybody whispers that Damascus and Moscow have lately
confirmed that they alone are able to save Obama from the
predicament of red lines and they alone hold the keys of power
that could open a path for a political solution.”  ----------------------------------------  *Israel  Israel Hayom   “The Russians, Iranians, and Syrians are fooling the West,
just like the Iranians did with the inspectors, who poked around
in their nuclear initiative,” the privately owned Hebrew-language newspaper said.  “The moment tensions dissipate, the delays will start. The
Syrians, with the help of  Russia , will reduce the inspections,
and there won’t be any real supervision. They will hide part of
their chemical weapons or will try to transfer them to
Hezbollah.”  ----------------------------------------  *Lebanon  Daily Star   English-language paper says that since last week, a wave of
rhetoric and public statements over has focused on a political
solution to the Syrian crisis after a “deafening crescendo of
rhetoric” that was supposedly laying the groundwork for a U.S.-
led military strike. Officials from Syria, the U.S. and Russia
have starred in this “saga of dancing with words.”  They’re “behaving like parties that have backed themselves
into a corner and are now searching desperately for a way out,
and not a fair, durable solution to the Syrian tragedy.  ‘‘In behaving this way, these three sides end up giving the
impression that they are merely stalling for time.  ‘‘They should remember that with every 24 hours that goes
by, 100 or more Syrian lives are lost, and the hole that
Damascus, Moscow and  Washington  find themselves in gets only
that much deeper.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  