-- U.K. Probing Alleged ISDAfix Manipulation, Regulator Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-09-11T20:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/u-k-probing-alleged-isdafix-rate-manipulation-regulator-says.html
U.K. regulators are investigating
alleged manipulation of a benchmark measure tied to  interest-rate swaps , the agency’s chief told lawmakers yesterday.  The Financial Conduct Authority is working with the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, FCA Chief Executive
Officer Martin Wheatley said at yesterday’s hearing in  London .
The CFTC is going over 1 million e-mails as well as taped phone
calls as it examines whether ISDAfix, which helps determine
everything from interest on annuities to borrowing costs on
bonds linked to skyscrapers, was manipulated, a person familiar
with the situation said earlier this year.  “We have asked for records, the CFTC has asked for
records” as part of the probe into ISDAfix, Wheatley told
lawmakers yesterday.  The British regulator’s review comes after the CFTC issued
subpoenas to current and former brokers at  ICAP (IAP)  Plc, the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association and 15 Wall Street
dealers as part of its probe,  Bloomberg News  first reported
April 8. Two people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News
in April that the FCA and CFTC were looking into whether ISDAfix
had been manipulated.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on
Wheatley’s statements.  ‘Treasure Island’  Brokers on ICAP’s U.S. interest-rate swap desk in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey  -- who are the focus of the investigation --
were paid as much as $7 million a year at the market’s peak,
earning the group the nickname “Treasure Island,” two people
familiar with the matter said in April.  The team of about 20 brokers made $100 million to $120
million annually for ICAP around 2008 and 2009, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the details are private. The
group benefits from a move more than a decade ago that put the
firm in control of the computer screen used by the industry to
price swaps in much of the $379 trillion market, one of the
people said.  “ICAP is cooperating with the CFTC’s wider inquiry into
this area, and due to its pending nature, we will not be
commenting further,” Guy Taylor, a spokesman for London-based
ICAP, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  ICAP collects the ISDAfix submissions from dealer banks for
the rate that’s denominated in U.S. dollars, while  Thomson
Reuters  Corp. calculates the figure, according to ISDA’s
 website . In all other ISDAfix currencies, Thomson Reuters
collects and calculates the rate, according to the site.  Recorded Calls  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
ICAP in some businesses, including foreign-exchange and swaps
trading, and with Thomson Reuters in providing financial data.  Recorded telephone calls and e-mails reviewed by the CFTC
show that traders at Wall Street banks instructed ICAP brokers
to buy or sell as many interest-rate swaps as necessary to move
the ISDAfix rate to a predetermined level, a person with
knowledge of the matter said in August.  By rigging the measure, the banks stood to profit on
separate derivatives trades they had with clients who were
seeking to hedge against moves in  interest rates . Banks sought
to change the value of the swaps because the ISDAfix rate sets
prices for the other derivatives, which are used by firms such
as Pacific Investment Management Co., said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the details aren’t public.  Banks  set  ISDAfix for 10-year rate swaps at 3.107 percent
today, up from 1.785 percent at the end of 2012, according to
ICAP data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  