-- U.K. May Resist European Union Measures to Reform Defense Market
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-10T12:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/u-k-may-resist-european-union-measures-to-reform-defense-market.html
The U.K. may balk at European Union
efforts to impose new rules on the region’s defense equipment
market to protect suppliers, Secretary of State for Defense
Philip Hammond said.  A European Commission proposal put forward this summer
represents “a significant potential expansion” of its role
that may not be in the U.K. defense industry’s interest, Hammond
said at the DSEi conference in London. Proposals not beneficial
to companies, such as Europe’s largest defense company  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/) , will be resisted, he said.  The European Union is looking to expand its involvement in
defense industrial issues, traditionally left largely to member
states, to maintain capabilities at a time many governments are
cutting spending. Among the measures proposed include opening
the internal market to greater competition.  “There is a tendency for proposals to come out of Brussels
which talk about improving the competitiveness of European
industry and what they really mean is imposing a dirigism on
European industry,” Hammond said. The U.K. is not alone in
resisting the EU push, he said.  One area the U.K. would resist would be an effort out of
the European Union to centrally control how export markets are
targeted. That is better left at national levels, he said.  An effort to force specialization of the defense industry
across Europe also raises concerns, he said, as does the
potential impact the EU’s push could have on British defense
companies dealing with the Pentagon.  The European Union should push to create a larger, more
competitive defense market, rather than looking for ways to
narrow it, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  