-- U.S. Officials in Talks to Allow Banking for Pot Business
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-09-10T19:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/u-s-officials-in-talks-to-allow-banking-for-pot-business.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  has
entered talks with federal agencies and banking regulators to
clear the way for marijuana dispensaries to obtain banking
services, a top U.S. official said.  The meetings are “to discuss ways that this could be dealt
with in accordance with the laws we have on the books today,”
Deputy Attorney General  James Cole  told lawmakers on the Senate
Judiciary Committee today.  The effort comes less than two weeks after the Justice
Department announced it wouldn’t sue to block laws in Colorado
and  Washington  that legalize recreational use of marijuana.
Instead, the Obama administration chose to work with local
officials to set up regulations and enforcement priorities.  Cole, in  a memo  sent Aug. 29 to U.S. attorneys around the
country, set eight enforcement priorities, directing prosecutors
to leave other marijuana-related issues to state and local law-enforcement authorities.  Cole’s memo didn’t specifically address the business
implications of the revised guidelines. Stakeholders of all
kinds have been pushing state and federal authorities to make
clear what may run afoul of federal law.  For dispensaries in states where medical or recreational
marijuana use is legal, access to banking services -- or the
general lack thereof -- has been a hurdle to doing business.  “The banking industry is not willing to provide services
to state-authorized dispensaries because they fear they may be
violating federal money-laundering laws,” Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat and chairman of the panel, said.  Controlled Substance  Under federal law, marijuana is a controlled substance,
requiring banks to report to federal authorities any related
transactions as suspicious activity to Fincen, the Treasury
Department agency that collects and maintains financial
transaction data for law enforcement purposes.  “We agree that this is an issue we need to deal with,”
Cole said.  A Justice Department official said at the time of the memo
that specific guidance from the department was unlikely and
banks and other companies should look to the enforcement
priorities -- which include keep marijuana sales away from
children, violent crime, trafficking operations and violence --
as a road map for what to avoid.  Federal prosecutors retain the discretion to bring charges
against anyone involved with marijuana, which remains illegal on
the federal level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  