-- UnitedHealth Recalls Digital Health Record Software
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/unitedhealth-recalls-digital-health-record-software.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  has
recalled software used in hospital emergency departments in more
than 20 states because of an error that caused doctor’s notes
about patient prescriptions to drop out of their files.  Certain versions of the software made by the largest U.S.
health insurer had a bug that didn’t print information related
to the medication and failed to add data to patients’ charts,
according to a document filed with the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  and  posted  July 29.  The technology is used in 35 facilities in states including
 California ,  New Jersey  and  Florida , the document shows. The
recall began June 21. There were no reports of patient harm and
each facility was notified and received a digital fix, said Kyle
Christensen, a spokesman for the UnitedHealth division that
makes the  Picis ED PulseCheck  software that was recalled.  The incident shows how software errors can create dangers
for patients at a time when digital health records are being
implemented as a cornerstone of President  Barack Obama ’s
modernization of the nation’s health-care system.  The global market for electronics health records reached
$24.2 billion last year and is expected to grow an average of 10
percent a year through 2015, according to Accenture Research.
Leading companies include Epic Systems Corp.,  McKesson Corp. (MCK) ,
and  Cerner Corp. (CERN)   The Picis recall highlights how little information is
disclosed about such issues, said Ross Koppel, adjunct professor
of sociology and medicine at the  University of Pennsylvania , who
has studied errors in health information technology. While
medical device companies are required to report safety issues to
the FDA, makers of electronic health record software are under
no such obligation, he said.  Unreported Errors  “It’s admirable that the vendor reported this, but realize
that this is one of the more obvious errors,” said Koppel.
“Most are not as obvious and go unreported.”  Doctor’s notes are critical for some medications, as they
contain directions about diet and use. Failure to include the
instructions could lead to serious injury or death, Koppel said.  The adoption of digital health records, spurred by $27
billion that the Obama administration has set aside to help
health-care organizations buy the systems and looming penalties
for those that don’t upgrade, has dramatically reduced some
common medical errors, as Bloomberg reported in June.  More than 17 million medication mistakes are now avoided in
the U.S. each year because hospitals are using computerized
systems for ordering  prescription drugs , which reduce the risks
from sloppy handwriting and dangerous drug combinations,
according to a study published in February in the Journal of the
American Medical Informatics Association.  Six Recalls  An online database maintained by the FDA shows that Picis
Inc., a Wakefield, Massachusetts-based company that UnitedHealth
acquired in 2010 for an undisclosed price, has reported six
recalls involving electronic health record software since 2009.  One  incident  in 2011 involved anesthesia-management
software sold nationwide that in one instance displayed a
patient’s medical information in another patient’s file.  Another 
involved software sold worldwide where on an unspecified number
of occasions, the program failed to display the discontinued
status on medication orders. Others included glitches that
caused a  failure  to display appropriate allergy interaction
warnings, the  freezing  of administrative controls, and other
issues.  Legal Wrangles  Alleged flaws in electronic health records have led to
lawsuits. Scot Silverstein, a doctor and health-care informatics
professor at  Drexel University , sued Abington Memorial Hospital
in  Pennsylvania  in 2011 over the death that year of his 84-year-old mother. He blamed her death on a flaw in her electronic
health record that he claims caused a critical heart medication
to vanish from her file. One of the systems involved was made by
Picis, according to his lawsuit. Picis is not being sued.  Linda Millevoi, a spokeswoman for Abington Memorial,
declined to comment.  Picis disclosed the latest recall voluntarily, according to
the FDA document.  “Picis completed a routine software update that resolved
an issue in specific releases where some physician notes entered
manually on a prescription were not included when the
prescription was issued,” Christensen said in a statement.
“Picis reported the resolution of this issue to clients and the
FDA in the normal course of business.”  Limited Disclosures  Other makers of digital health record software said they
also disclose issues. Cerner voluntarily discloses to the FDA
recall and other public-safety issues involving its electronic
records, Gay Johannes, Cerner’s chief quality officer, said in a
statement.  Barb Hernandez, a spokeswoman for Epic, declined to
comment. Kris Fortner, a spokesman for McKesson, didn’t return
messages for comment.  Koppel said reporting on snafus related to digital medical
records is limited as some companies require health facilities
to sign non-disclosure agreements and doctors and nurses are
often puzzled by changes in complicated systems and aren’t aware
of the technology’s role in errors. In 2005, he co-authored a
 study  that found a widely used electronic prescription-ordering
system contributed to 22 types of medication errors.  “When using the electronic health records, clinicians
often feel we are sinners in the hands of an angry and
capricious god -- what you could do yesterday you can’t do
today, and you don’t know why there’s been a change in the
program,” he said. “So you’re always going, ‘what the hell
happened now?’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  