-- Uralkali Sees Support for Potash Prices Above $300
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-09-10T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/uralkali-sees-support-for-potash-prices-above-300.html
OAO Uralkali, the Russian potash
producer that exited a venture controlling almost half of global
exports in July, said prices are unlikely to fall below $300 a
metric ton as Asian and Brazilian demand will support sales.  “A potash-price decline below $300 a ton is not likely,”
Chief of Sales and Marketing Oleg Petrov said in Moscow. “If it
happens it would only be for a short time.”  Uralkali, the world’s biggest potash company and the
lowest-cost producer, quit its trading arrangement with Belarus
on July 30 after partner Belaruskali started selling the crop
nutrient independently of the joint venture. Uralkali Chief
Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner warned prices may drop
below $300 with the loss of the traditional production controls.  “When the price goes to a level of $300 a ton, demand from
 China ,  Brazil ,  South Asia  will increase, pushing the price up,”
Petrov said yesterday in an interview. The spot price in China,
the largest potash consumer, has fallen to about $325 a ton from
about $350 in July, he said.  Since exiting the joint venture, Uralkali has ramped up to
maximum output, having run at an average 70 percent in 2012. The
Berezniki-based company sold about 800,000 tons of potash in
August to China,  India , Brazil and South Asia, Petrov said. That
compares with 1.9 million tons for all of the first quarter.  CEO Arrest  Uralkali alienated Belaruskali with its exit from their
marketing venture, Belarusian Potash Co., or BPC. Belarus has
responded by detaining Baumgertner on suspicion of abuse of
office, and is also seeking to arrest billionaire shareholder
Suleiman Kerimov and four other employees, including Petrov.  “We are not looking to win any markets from Belaruskali,”
Petrov said. “We have a target to sell all the volumes we
produce and this is possible by winning markets from
international players in some regions who earlier had taken our
market share.”  North American producers of the crop nutrient, which
include  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  and  Mosaic Co. (MOS) , took
10 percent of the South Asian market from Uralkali last year,
according to the executive.  Uralkali is executing an option to sell 500,000 tons of
potash to China from August to the end of the year. The company
will also seek a new contract with China to send supplies by
sea, adding to rail shipments, according to Petrov, who said the
country won’t be ready for talks before the end of 2013.  Belarus Accusations  Petrov is no longer traveling abroad after Belarus said in
August it will seek a warrant for his arrest, accusing him and
other employees of a criminal scheme. Baumgertner was detained
in Minsk, Belarus, on Aug. 26 after being invited to the country
by Prime Minister Mikhail Myasnikovich for talks.  Petrov blames Belarus President  Aleksandr Lukashenko ’s
aides for misinforming the leader and causing the breakup.  “My personal opinion is that there was a group of people
in Minsk interested in creating a potash-trading structure
outside BPC, namely Belneftekhim CEO Igor Zhilin and his team,”
he said. Zhilin, appointed in 2011 to state-held Belneftekhim,
which manages Belaruskali, may have been “purposely
disinforming Lukashenko about the situation in BPC.”  Belneftekhim executives convinced Lukashenko that Belarus
could easily sell as much as 1 million tons of potash on top of
its BPC sales and that Belaruskali didn’t need to have so much
of its capacity offline, according to Petrov. Uralkali was keen
to maintain the joint venture and did everything possible to
keep it stable, he said.  Marina Kostiuchenko, a spokeswoman for Belneftekhim, didn’t
answer multiple calls seeking comment. Dmitri Rokhodski, acting
head of sales at Belaruskali, declined to comment.  Stock Slump  Uralkali’s departure from BPC sent the shares of its global
competitors tumbling as investors feared a slump in prices for
the fertilizer ingredient. Farmers apply potash to help
strengthen roots and make crops more resistant to drought.  The breakup has hurt Belaruskali, which sold only about
200,000 tons of potash in August, Petrov said, citing the loss
of BPC’s marketing managers to Uralkali as one reason.  “It happened not due to higher salaries offered, but just
because Belaruskali executives created an uncomfortable
atmosphere in the company,” Petrov said. The Soligorsk,
Belarus-based producer also has no clear sales strategy and
lacks partners in the markets it’s targeting, he said.  Uralkali is better positioned than anyone to operate in the
new environment, according to the executive. “We have the
lowest cost of production, the best marketing team, and we are
well positioned to buy local distributors in the regions where
our largest clients are,” he said, without identifying any.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  