-- Turkey Economy Expands More Than Expected on Domestic Demand
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2013-09-10T08:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/turkey-economy-expands-more-than-expected-on-domestic-demand.html
Turkey ’s economy expanded more than
expected in the second quarter, boosted by  government spending 
and a pickup in consumption.  Gross domestic product  grew  4.4 percent from a year
earlier, accelerating from a revised 2.9 percent in the first
quarter, the statistics office in Ankara said on its website.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of eight economists
was 3.5 percent. GDP grew 2.1% from the previous quarter and
4.1% from a year earlier, when adjusted for working days.  Turkey’s $730 billion economy has picked up after posting
the slowest growth since the 2009 recession last year. Regional
tensions and global economic strains may cap the expansion in
the second half. Risks including a plunge in the lira and
government bonds, as emerging-market assets declined on
expectations the U.S. will start withdrawing monetary stimulus,
and the conflict in neighboring  Syria .  “Second-quarter growth beat estimates due to higher than
expected public investment and consumption figures,” Inanc Sozer, economic research manager at Odeabank AS in Istanbul,
said by e-mail after release of data. He forecasts annual growth
of 3.6%.  Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said economic growth may
remain under 4 percent for the year due to geopolitical tensions
and weaknesses in the world economy. Domestic demand supported
Turkey’s growth in the second quarter, he said in an e-mailed
statement.  Household consumption grew 5.3 percent from a year earlier,
up from 3.1 percent in the first quarter after shrinking in
2012.  The lira weakened 0.4 percent to 2.0334 per dollar at 11:10
a.m. in Istanbul. The currency has dropped 12 percent this year.
Yields on benchmark  two-year domestic debt  fell 1 basis point to
9.43 percent, almost double the record low of 4.79 percent they
reached in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  