-- Valero Asks Obama Administration to Waive Ethanol Mandate
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-09-10T20:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/valero-asks-obama-administration-to-waive-ethanol-mandate.html
Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the world’s
largest independent refining company, called on the Obama
administration to waive the country’s biofuel target
immediately, saying the cost to reach it has skyrocketed.  “We need the waiver now,” Valero Chief Executive Officer
Bill Klesse, said in a letter to Environmental Protection Agency
Administrator Gina McCarthy, dated yesterday. Valero is also the
third-largest U.S. ethanol producer, after  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and Poet LLC.  Refiners are required by law to use 13.8 billion gallons of
ethanol in 2013. Renewable Identification Numbers are attached
to each gallon of ethanol to track compliance. Once the additive
is blended into gasoline, refiners can retain the certificate to
show compliance or trade it to another party. RINs prices have
risen more than eight-fold so far this year.  RINs have increased because of falling gasoline  demand  and
 higher biofuel consumption targets , Klesse said in the letter.  Gasoline  demand  will drop 0.5 percent next year, according
to a forecast today from the Energy Information Administration,
the Energy Department’s statistical arm. The Renewable Fuels
Standard, set in 2007, calls for 14.4 billion gallons of ethanol
to be used in 2014, up 4.3 percent from this year. The target
increased 4.5 percent this year from 13.2 billion in 2012.  “You have the flexibility to waiver volumes which will
lower the price of RINs now, will lower the cost to the consumer
and make the marketplace fair,” Kleese said.  RINs Prices  Corn-based ethanol RINs  slipped 1 cent to 67 cents today,
compared to 7 cents in January, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Advanced RINs, which cover biodiesel and Brazilian
sugarcane-based ethanol, slipped 2 cents to 74 cents. That’s up
from 37 cents in January.  Ethanol is typically blended in a formula of as much as 10
percent in gasoline. While the EPA has approved blends of 15
percent, refiners haven’t adopted the higher concentration,
citing engine damage concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  