-- Verizon Reverses Fire Island Stance, Offers Fiber Service
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-09-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/verizon-reverses-fire-island-stance-offers-fiber-service.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  is
bowing to consumer complaints on  New York ’s Fire Island over its
replacement of storm-damaged copper phone lines with wireless
service, saying it will rebuild with fiber optics instead.  Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company, says it
will now offer Fire Island residents a choice of its wireless
Voice Link service, a fiber-optic-based phone plan or a FiOS
Internet and voice connection, which also uses fiber technology.  The decision is a setback for Verizon, which was posing
Superstorm Sandy-damaged Fire Island as a high-profile test
case. The company had sought to establish that it could replace
its old copper phone lines with wireless service in places where
it’s more expensive to install fiber-optic lines.  Sandy destroyed parts of the narrow, 32-mile barrier beach
along  Long Island ’s south shore last year. In the aftermath,
residents said New York-based Verizon was substituting lower-quality Voice Link service for its copper system to avoid the
cost of repairs. The damage also knocked out DSL Internet
service to many residents in the small island communities.  “We listened to people and looked at different options,”
said Tom Maguire, Verizon’s head of national operations support.
“Fire Island is very unique. It’s portrayed as a Mayberry RFD.
But what we discovered is that it’s a Mayberry RFD with an
insatiable appetite for Internet,” he said, referring to the
small-town setting of TV’s “The Andy Griffith Show.”  Verizon’s decision on Fire Island doesn’t apply to other
places where it’s using the Voice Link service to replace old
copper lines, such as the Catskill Mountains and parts of  New
Jersey , said John Bonomo, a spokesman for the carrier.  The company’s disconnecting of copper lines was criticized
by community groups, scrutinized by regulators and even fought
by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman.  “I am extremely pleased that Verizon has backed off its
attempt to abandon landline telephone service on Western Fire
Island,” Schneiderman said in an e-mailed statement. “It’s a
victory for  New Yorkers  who were hit hard by  Hurricane Sandy ,
and my office will continue to oppose Verizon’s efforts to
substitute landlines with lesser services.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  