-- VW Weighs 40 Low-Emission Cars as Frankfurt Goes Green
-- B y   A n g e l a   M a i e r ,   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-09-10T15:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/volkswagen-looks-at-developing-40-alternative-drive-autos.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker, outlined ambitious plans to offer as many as 40
electric or hybrid vehicles, betting buyers will have enough
confidence in performance to shift to low-emissions cars.  VW will produce 14 models with alternative drive by next
year, and will widen the lineup should demand increase, Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said at the International
Motor Show in Frankfurt, where the CEO introduced the e-Up!
electric car and a battery-powered version of the Golf.  The aggressive move by VW, which is just now bringing out
its first alternative-drive vehicles, echoes a broader shift
taking place in the industry, with every major carmaker for the
first time in Frankfurt showing off electric or hybrid models.
When the biannual gathering took place in 2011, only one hall at
the show was dedicated to electromobility.  “VW, which two years ago said electric cars were lunacy,
yesterday announced they will bring out electrics,” said  Andy Palmer , Nissan Motor Co.’s executive vice president. “We have
been saying this for around four years now, and everyone has
been giggling behind our back. It doesn’t look so funny
anymore.”  Still, the newfound enthusiasm for alternative-drive
engines hasn’t translated into significant sales amid consumers’
concerns that powering systems offer only limited distance
before a recharge is needed and objections to higher prices.  Missing Target  Nissan and partner  Renault SA (RNO) , which together are the car
industry’s largest producer of electric autos, will miss a 2016
deadline of 1.5 million deliveries a year,  Carlos Ghosn , the
head of both companies, said in early September. Deliveries of
battery-powered cars by the French and Japanese manufacturers
amounted to just 68,000 vehicles last year.  German buyers  registered  435 electric autos out of a market
of 214,044 new cars in August, according to the country’s
Federal Motor Vehicle Office.  To entice buyers,  General Motors Co. (GM)  is targeting an
improvement of at least 20 percent for the electric-only range
of the Chevrolet Volt hybrid, CEO Dan Akerson said in August.  “The electric car cannot be a compromise on wheels,”
Winterkorn said at yesterday’s briefing. “It must convince
customers in every respect.” Plug-in hybrids, which can switch
between rechargable battery power and conventional combustion
engines, will have the “greatest market potential.”  Pricing  The e-Up!, which goes on sale in October for 26,900 euros
($35,700) in  Germany , is “deliberately positioned” against the
battery-powered i3 city car that  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  is
bringing out, Rudolf Krebs, head of electric-powertrain
technology at Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW, said on Sept. 4.  “VW has shown us that they always deliver what they commit
to,” Gian Primo Quagliano, head of automotive-research company
CSP in Bologna,  Italy , said by phone. “When the technological
conditions improve, especially in electric batteries, that
market can boom.”  BMW, the world’s biggest luxury-vehicle manufacturer, is
presenting the i3 at the Frankfurt show, which is open to the
public Sept. 14 through Sept. 22 following days for press
briefings and supplier meetings. The model, priced at 34,950
euros, will enter showrooms in Germany in November.  With the i3, “we are setting new technological standards
for the industry,” BMW CEO Norbert Reithofer said at a
 Frankfurt  press conference late yesterday.  BMW Hybrids  BMW’s i8 hybrid electric-gasoline sports car is also making
its debut at the event. The model will be priced starting at
$135,925, including destination and handling, when it goes on
sale in the U.S. in early 2014, the Munich-based company said
today in a statement. BMW is also showing a plug-in hybrid
version of the X5 sport-utility vehicle.  Plug-in hybrids have the most potential and BMW plans to
eventually offer one in every model line, Herbert Diess, the
automaker’s development chief, said in an interview.  Cars with electromobility will make up 5 percent to 10
percent of the overall market by 2020 from well under 1 percent
now, Diess said.  Other alternative-drive vehicles shown in Frankfurt include
an all-electric Mercedes-Benz  B-Class  crossover from  Daimler AG (DAI) 
that will use a drivetrain supplied by  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , and a
hybrid coupe prototype from Volvo Car Group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Maier in Frankfurt at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Frankfurt at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  