-- VTech, Eveready, Google, Lacoste: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-10T11:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/vtech-eveready-google-lacoste-intellectual-property.html
VTech Holdings Ltd. (303) , a maker of
cordless telephones, said in a statement that the claims made
against it in a patent-infringement suit are “without merit.”  Spherix Inc. of Tysons Corner,  Virginia , sued VTech in
federal court in  Dallas  Aug. 30, claiming the Hong Kong-based
company infringed five patents that were invented by former
employees of Nortel.  The complaint outlined the process by which the patents at
issue came to Spherix, a biotech company specializing in
treatments for diabetes, metabolic syndrome and atherosclerosis.  The patents were acquired at auction following Nortel’s
2009 bankruptcy. The acquirer was a group of technology
companies named, for the purpose of the auction, Rockstar Bidco
LP. Rockstar Bidco then transferred the patents to Rockstar
Consortium US LP of Plano,  Texas , an organization of former
Nortel technology and business professionals, according to court
papers.  Spherix, which had the aim of diversifying its research and
development and product offerings, then bought the disputed
patents and others from Rockstar, according to court papers. The
company said it intends to expand its activities in wireless
communications and telecommunication sectors, including cordless
telephones. As part of the patent-acquisition process, Rockstar
received a minority stake in Spherix and a share of the patents
proceeds, the company said in its court filing.  The Virginia-based company has now formed a technology
advisory board comprised of former Nortel technology
professionals, including the inventors of the disputed patents,
it said.  Spherix declared that one of the objectives of its patent
enforcement program “is the enforcement of  intellectual
property  developed in North America against large foreign
manufacturers that use such IP -- without authorization -- to
make and expand sales of infringing systems and methods in the
United States and Canada.”  The case is  Spherix Inc. (SPEX)  v. VTech Telecommunications Ltd.,
3:13-cv-03494-M, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Gelmart Seeks to Use ‘Skintimates’ Mark for Lingerie  Gelmart Industries Inc., a manufacturer of women’s
lingerie, has asked a court to declare it doesn’t infringe
trademarks belonging to the Eveready Battery Co. of  St. Louis .  In a court filing yesterday, New York-based Gelmart said it
has received a cease-and-desist notice from Eveready over an
application it filed to register “skintimates” as a trademark
for a line of lingerie.  The company said its application was approved for
publication, which means that the examiner “concluded no other
registered trademark created a conflict with Gelmart’s mark.”
The application is to be published today in the database of the
U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office , according to court papers.  Eveready does have four registered “skintimate”
trademarks, all related to razors and shaving products, and a
pending application to register the term for a line of bath and
hair-care products, Gelmart said in its filing with the federal
court in  New York .  Gelmart argued that the only category of consumers that it
targets are those who wear intimate apparel designed for women.  “The hygiene habits of depilation preferences of their
customers are of no bearing,” according to court papers.  In addition to a declaration that it doesn’t infringe
Eveready trademarks, Gelmart asked the court to bar the battery
company from accusing it of infringement. The company also asked
for awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is Gelmart Industries Inc. v. Eveready Battery Co,
1:13-cv-06310, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  Google Made New Offer to Settle Antitrust Probe, EU Says  Google Inc. (GOOG)  gave European Union regulators a new proposal
to settle an almost three-year-old EU antitrust probe into the
way it operates its search services.  “We received new proposals from Google in the previous
week,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television Sept. 8 in Cernobbio, Italy.
“If we are satisfied with the new proposals, we can advance
toward an agreed solution in the coming months.”  Google’s previous offer to label its branded search
services and show links to rival specialized search services was
rejected by Almunia in July. Google rivals, including  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , have urged the EU to seek tougher concessions from the
 Mountain View , California-based company.  “Once we have completed our analysis, once we will check
that these new proposals are able to eliminate our concerns, we
will tell Google what to do,” Almunia said.  The Brussels-based agency is investigating whether Google
promotes its own specialist search services, such as Google News
and Google Finance, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant
reviews, and has agreements with websites and software
developers that stifle competition in the advertising industry.  “Our proposal to the European Commission addresses their
four areas of concern,” Al Verney, a Brussels-based spokesman
for Google, said by phone yesterday. “We continue to work with
the commission to settle this case.”  A group that represents Google rivals, including Microsoft,
 Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , said that industry participants
should be consulted before the EU reaches any final settlement.  “Given the failure of Google to make a serious offer last
time around, we believe it is necessary that customers and
competitors of Google be consulted in a full, second market
test,  Thomas Vinje , a Brussels-based lawyer for FairSearch
Europe, said in an e-mailed statement today.  In addition to fining companies for antitrust violations,
the commission may impose orders to change the way firms
operate.  The commission will opt for a formal complaint, or
statement of objections, against Google ‘‘if we consider that
the new proposals are not able to limit our concerns.’’ Still,
that would take ‘‘too long,’’ Almunia said.  Crocodile Gets Chance to Go Forward Against Lacoste Mark  Crocodile International Pte , a Singapore-based clothing
manufacturer, won the right to appeal a New Zealand trademark
decision related to its dispute with Devanlay SA’s Chemise
Lacoste unit, Stuff, the New Zealand news website reported.  The dispute involved the crocodile logo used on sportswear,
with Crocodile using a left-facing reptile, and the French
company using one that faces to the right, according to Stuff.  Although in New Zealand Lacoste registered logos with
crocodiles facing in both directions, Crocodile says its rights
are impinged and claimed that the French company never intended
to use the left-facing crocodile in New Zealand, Stuff reported.  The  High Court  in Wellington said Sept. 9 that Crocodile
has the right to appeal a decision by the assistant commissioner
for trademarks to dismiss its request to revoke Lacoste’s
registration of the left-facing crocodile trademark, according
to the website.  Forstman Little’s ENK Seeks Ban on Doncaster’s Use of ‘Coterie’  Forstman Little & Co.’s ENK International unit sued a North
Carolina clothing manufacturer for trademark infringement.  ENK, a producer of fashion trade shows, claims that Tanner
Companies LLC’s  Doncaster  unit is infringing its ‘‘coterie”
trademarks.  The New York-based company says it used “Coterie” and
Fashion Coterie’’ in connection with an annual trade show it
produces in New York. These shows are attended by about 60,000
domestic and international buyers and press, and generate annual
sales of over $1 billion, the company claims.  The  Fall 2013 Coterie Trade Show  is set to open Sept. 17 at
the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, according to court
papers.  ENK objects to Doncaster’s “Curvy Coterie” showing of
plus-sized fashions set for Tysons Corner, Virginia, Sept. 20.
This event will cause ENK “irreparable harm,” the company
claims.  Doncaster is  promoting the event online , including through
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social media site, ENK says in its pleadings.  The public is likely to assume, falsely, that the New York
and Virginia shows have some connection, which enables Doncaster
to compete unfairly with ENK, the company claims.  It asked the court to bar Doncaster’s use of “Coterie” in
any manner, and for an order for the destruction of all
promotional items that allegedly infringe the mark.  Additionally, ENK asked for awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Doncaster didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is ENK International LLC v. Tanner Cos., 1:13-cv-06318, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Two Defendants Dismissed from Harper Lee’s Copyright Suit  Harper Lee, the 87-year-old author of “To Kill a
Mockingbird,” has settled a copyright dispute with two of the
defendants she sued in a case over ownership of the copyright to
her novel. She claimed the defendants took advantage of her age
and infirmity to deprive her of royalties from the novel.  Lee, of Monroeville, Alabama, sued Samuel Pinkus, the
agent, and others seeking to ensure her ownership of the
copyright to the 1960 novel and to compel forfeiture of the
agent’s commissions, according to a complaint filed May 3 in
federal court in New York.  She also sued Pinkus’s wife, Leigh Ann Winick, and Gerald
Posner, a copyright lawyer, who allegedly set up a corporation
to which Lee’s royalties were directed.  Following the filing of the suit, the dispute was the
subject of a story  in  Vanity Fair  titled “ To Steal a
Mockingbird ” that was unsympathetic to Pinkus.  Lee, who has failing eyesight and hearing, was residing in
an assisted-living facility in 2007 after suffering a stroke
when she signed a document assigning her copyright to Pinkus’s
company, according to the complaint. While the copyright was re-assigned to Lee last year after legal action and Pinkus was
discharged as Lee’s agent, he was still receiving royalties from
the novel as of this year, according to the complaint.  “Pinkus knew that Harper Lee was an elderly woman with
physical infirmities that made it difficult for her to read and
see,” Gloria Phares, Lee’s lawyer, said in the complaint.
“Harper Lee had no idea she had assigned her copyright” to
Pinkus’s company.  “To Kill a Mockingbird,” a story of racial injustice in
the American South, won a Pulitzer Prize for fiction and was
made into a film starring Gregory Peck, who won an Oscar for
playing the lawyer Atticus Finch. It is Lee’s only published
novel. The book has sold more than 30 million copies worldwide.  According to a Sept. 5 court filing, the case against
Winick and Posner was dismissed, with attorney fees and
litigation costs paid by each party. The dismissal was with
prejudice, which means that the case can’t be filed again
against these two defendants.  The case remains active against Pinkus, whose answer to the
complaint was due Aug. 16.  The case is Nelle Harper Lee v. Samuel L. Pinkus, 1:13-cv-03000-RWS, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  