-- VW CEO Winterkorn Sees No Lack of Candidates for Top Post
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-09-10T09:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/vw-ceo-winterkorn-sees-no-lack-of-candidates-for-top-post.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  Chief Executive
Officer Martin Winterkorn dismissed concerns that a recent
departure of executives leaves Europe’s largest automaker
without viable candidates to succeed him as CEO.  “There are enough young people up and coming,”
Winterkorn, 66, said at a Volkswagen event late yesterday in
 Frankfurt . The succession issue is “of course” being addressed
internally, he said.  Karl-Thomas Neumann, head of the China operations; Audi
development chief Wolfgang Duerheimer; and Audi sales chief
Peter Schwarzenbauer have all left within the last year.  Winterkorn is seen as the likely successor to Chairman
Ferdinand Piech, 76, when he eventually decides to retire. The
two are close confidantes and the masterminds behind VW’s global
expansion and financial success in recent years.  VW denied a Sept. 6 report in German newspaper Handelsblatt
saying Piech would resign within the next months due to health
issues. The company said in a statement that Winterkorn and
Piech will continue to serve in their current jobs “for a long
time.”  Volkswagen is relying on the seventh generation of its top-selling Golf hatchback, introduced at the end of last year, to
help drive deliveries to a record this year. Audi, the world’s
second-biggest maker of luxury cars and VW’s main earnings
contributor, is counting on the A3 sedan to boost profit by
luring more American and Chinese buyers.  Looking Good  “It is looking good at the moment” for VW to reach the
9.5 million vehicle sales mark in 2013, Christian Klingler, VW
sales chief, said at a press briefing today. Deliveries last
year reached 9.35 million worldwide, up 12 percent.  Dozens of new models including the Porsche Macan compact
sport-utility vehicle and the first SUV for the ultra-luxury
Bentley marque are part of the company’s push to overtake
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as the world’s largest
automaker by 2018.  VW also intends to streamline costs in the coming quarters
by rolling out more parts-sharing technology among its brands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  