-- Wal-Mart Will Accept Smartphones for Trade-In at U.S. Stores
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-09-10T13:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/wal-mart-will-accept-smartphones-for-trade-in-at-u-s-stores.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, later this month will let U.S. customers trade
in their smartphones for credit toward new ones.  The chain will offer a $300 credit for Apple iPhone 5
handsets and $175 for Samsung Galaxy SIII phones, among other
deals, the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said today in a
statement. The program will start Sept. 21 in 3,600 Wal-Mart and
Sam’s Club stores.  The move, which follows similar efforts from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
Best Buy Co., Target Corp. and RadioShack Corp., could drive
traffic and boost sales in electronics and mobile phone
accessories, said Brian Yarbrough, an analyst at Edward Jones &
Co. in  St. Louis .  “It’s a way to be competitive and drive people into
stores,” Yarbrough said in a telephone interview. “They failed
to gain strength in sales in electronics last quarter and this
could help that category.”  In its earnings report last month, Wal-Mart said it had
“soft results” in electronics, though the wireless category
showed sales strength. The company said it was the No. 1 handset
retailer for the three months ending June 30.  Trade-in payments will be applied to new smartphones with
two-year contracts from  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Wireless  or Sprint
Corp., or to prepaid plans. The credits range from $50 to $300
for phones that are working and aren’t damaged.  Best Value  “More and more, customers are choosing where they purchase
new smartphones based on where they’ll get the best value for
their trade-ins,” Steve Bratspies, executive vice president of
general merchandise for the retailer in the U.S., said in the
statement.  The program is also environmentally responsible because
traded-in phones won’t be sent to landfills, Wal-Mart said.  Jan Dawson, chief telecom analyst in the New York office of
London-based research firm Ovum Ltd., called the move a
“natural fit” for Wal-Mart, saying the company is “all about
bringing good value and low prices to people.”  “It should do fairly well because of that, and may even do
better than some other retailers like carrier-owned stores,
because they often don’t do much to promote this option,”
Dawson said in an e-mail.  Wal-Mart rose 0.2 percent to $73.66 at 9:30 a.m. in  New
York . Through yesterday, the shares had gained 7.7 percent this
year, compared with a 17 percent advance for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  