-- Twitter Agrees to Acquire Mobile-Ad Exchange MoPub
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-09-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/twitter-agrees-to-acquire-mobile-ad-exchange-mopub.html
Twitter Inc. agreed to acquire
mobile-advertising exchange startup MoPub Inc., in a deal that
adds real-time bidding to the microblogging service’s ad
platform.  Twitter paid about $350 million in stock for MoPub, in what
would be the largest acquisition for the San Francisco-based
company, said people with knowledge of the purchase who asked
not to be identified because the discussions were private. The
deal was disclosed in blog postings from both companies
 yesterday , and technology blog TechCrunch earlier reported the
acquisition and price.  Twitter is bolstering its advertising options as it works
toward a goal of $1 billion in revenue by 2014. The company,
which is one of Silicon Valley’s top candidates for an initial
public offering, has held preliminary talks with securities
firms about going public, people with knowledge of the plans
have said. Twitter is awaiting third-quarter financial results
before deciding whether to file the IPO paperwork with
regulators this year or next, the people have said.  MoPub, also based in San Francisco, has almost 100
employees worldwide, according to its post. The startup
specializes in helping companies quickly match publishers with
ads on mobile devices.  “We look at it as a big bet on the mobile ecosystem,”
Kevin Weil, Twitter’s vice president of revenue product, said in
an interview. “It’s growing incredibly quickly. We think mobile
advertising is in the early stages, and Twitter and MoPub
together give us the opportunity to help drive what mobile
advertising becomes.”  Twitter said it will continue to invest in MoPub’s
traditional services that help place advertisements in
applications on smartphones that include  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
those using Google Inc.’s Android software.  MoPub’s investors include Accel Partners and Harrison Metal
Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  