-- Two Koreas Agree on Date to Open Gaeseong Industrial Park
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-09-11T03:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/two-koreas-agree-on-date-to-open-gaeseong-joint-industrial-park.html
North and South Korea agreed to
reopen their jointly run industrial complex next week, the
latest step in reducing tensions between the two countries that
flared after a nuclear test by the North earlier this year.  The accord on a time-line to open Gaeseong by Sept. 16 will
end a near six-month shutdown caused by Kim Jong Un’s regime
pulling out its 53,000 workers as relations soured between the
two countries. North Korea also agreed to exempt South Korean
companies at Gaeseong from taxes this year. Shares of Korean
companies operating at Gaeseong gained.  “Both sides’ determination to restore Gaeseong through
dialog contributed to this agreement,” Yang Moo Jin, a
professor at the University of North Korean Studies in  Seoul ,
said by phone. “This is a positive signal for President Park
Geun Hye’s fledgling North Korea policy.”  Gaeseong, located north of the fortified border that
divides the two countries, provides cheap labor for 120 South
Korean companies producing at the site and is a source of hard
currency for the North. The Kim regime shuttered the park after
the United Nations tightened sanctions against the country in
response to North Korea’s third nuclear test in February,
followed by threats of a preemptive attack against the South and
the U.S.  Shares Jump  Romanson Co. (026040) , which manufactures wrist watches at Gaeseong,
gained as much as 7.1 percent, the biggest intra-day gain since
Aug. 8., before trading up 3.1 percent at 12:34 p.m. in Seoul.
 Shinwon Corp. (009270) , an apparel maker with a factory at Gaeseong,
added as much as 4 percent. The benchmark Kospi index of stocks
 fell  0.1 percent.  Gaeseong represented the only vestige of cooperation
between the countries before the shutdown. Since the preliminary
accord on Aug. 14 to reopen the site, the two Koreas have also
agreed to resume reunions of families separated by the Korean
War and restarted a military hot-line to improve communication.  Later today, the North may allow the South Korean flag to
be hoisted and the national anthem played for the first time in
Pyongyang at the opening ceremony of an Asian weightlifting
competition that the South is joining.  As part of today’s accord, the two Koreas also agreed to
hold a business fair at Gaeseong next month in an effort to draw
foreign investment, according to South’s Unification Ministry.  “I doubt it’ll be successful because foreign companies
won’t feel comfortable moving operations to Gaeseong at a time
North Korea is under sanctions,” Yang said.  Glyn Davies, the top U.S. envoy for North Korea, told
reporters in South Korea yesterday the U.S. ruled out the
possibility of a quick resumption of six-nation talks offering
the North aid in return for giving up its nuclear ambitions
unless Kim Jong Un’s regime halts its nuclear weapons program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  