-- World Bank Insurer Posts Third Record Year on Power Projects
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-09-11T12:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/world-bank-insurer-posts-third-record-year-on-power-projects.html
Political risk insurance provided
by a World Bank Group agency in developing nations rose for a
third straight year to a record, led by guarantees on power
projects from Angola to  Bangladesh .  The Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency in  Washington 
issued $2.78 billion in coverage in the 12 months ended June 30,
compared with $2.66 billion a year earlier, according to
financial results e-mailed to Bloomberg News. That includes
$511.8 million for a hydro project in Angola that has funding
arranged by  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Projects including efforts tied to power, manufacturing and
agriculture were funded by banks from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China . New financial regulations
are encouraging private lenders to seek more insurance for
projects in developing nations to improve risk management, said
Edith Quintrell, MIGA’s director of operations.  “We are contemplating another record year, it’s the
strongest project pipeline we’ve ever seen at MIGA,” Quintrell
said in a Sept. 5 interview. “Power is where we see a lot of
growth,” with ports and roads also contributing.  The coverage provided in March for the Cambambe
Hydroelectric Project in conflict-affected  Angola  is MIGA’s
second-biggest deal, Rebecca Post, a spokeswoman for the agency,
said by e-mail Sept. 5. The coverage is for 13 years against the
risk sovereign financial obligations aren’t honored, according
to the  agency’s website .  Developing countries “have to provide affordable
electricity and infrastructure to deliver economic growth,”
Quintrell said.  Renewable Energy  MIGA provided $1.01 billion of new insurance to electricity
projects in the year through June, 63 percent more than the
previous period, according to the results. Clean-energy
financing by the world’s development banks increased 19 percent
in 2012 to break through the $100 billion-a-year barrier for the
first time, Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London   said
yesterday . The top three banks were  Germany ’s KfW, China
Development Bank and the Brazilian Development Bank.  MIGA follows  World Bank directions  on largely avoiding
support for coal projects to help protect the climate from heat-trapping emissions, Quintrell said.  “Renewables can be an affordable option for many
countries,” she said. “We are careful not to support projects
that in the end will not be sustainable.”  Risk Focus  MIGA works with private insurers and export credit
agencies, and transactions increasingly require capacity from
multiple providers, Quintrell said.  The agency is boosting the coverage period it offers in
some cases to 20 years and in some of the riskiest countries,
she said.  “We’re not always cheaper than the rest of the market, but
can bring a large amount of reinsurance capacity, being part of
the World Bank,” she said. “The key focus for the banks is how
they get the most capital relief.”  During the year, the agency’s exposure to projects in
conflict-affected areas tripled to $1.2 billion, and coverage in
sub-Saharan African nations more than doubled to $1.5 billion,
according to the results.  “We’re seeing that investors are also focusing more on
risk,” she said, citing upheavals including the Arab Spring.
“That’s why we’ve seen more demand for our products.”  Banks are becoming more interested again in lending to
developing-country projects, Quintrell said.  “Many of the European banks have started to come back
in,” she said. “The Asian and U.S. banks are becoming very
active.”  MIGA could boost its guarantees as high as $4 billion a
year without requiring more capital from its member countries,
she said. The biggest contributors are  Austria , with 24 percent
of exposure, and the U.K., with 13 percent, according to the
results.  The agency, which paid no claims in the fiscal year, has
paid six in its 25-year history, Quintrell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  