-- WTI Falls a Second Day on Sign of Diplomatic End to Syria Crisis
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-10T12:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/wti-drops-a-second-day-as-obama-seeks-support-for-syria-strike.html
West Texas Intermediate dropped a
second day after reports that  Syria  agreed to a Russian plan to
surrender its chemical weapons, easing concern of a U.S. attack
that may escalate the conflict and cut Middle Eastern exports.  Futures extended losses, declining as much as 2.1 percent,
after Syrian state television said the country’s Prime Minister,
Wael al-Halaqi, supported  Russia ’s disarmament initiative.
President  Barack Obama  said yesterday in an interview with NBC
News that Russia’s proposal is a “potentially positive
development,” adding that he wasn’t confident of congressional
approval for military action against Syria. The International
Energy Agency said today that oil markets are sufficiently
supplied without any emergency stockpile release.  “It’s generally thought they will look for a diplomatic
solution to this problem,” said Frank Klumpp, an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany . “This is
good for the oil market, because war is the threat that the
market fears and pushes the political premium up.”  WTI for October delivery slid as much as $2.24 to $107.28 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange, the lowest since Sept. 5, and was at $107.38 as of
1:43 p.m. London time. The volume of all futures traded was
about 40 percent above the 100-day average.  Brent for October settlement decreased as much as $1.91, or
1.7 percent, to $111.81 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. That’s the lowest since Aug. 27. The European
benchmark was at a premium of $4.53 to WTI. The spread was $4.20
yesterday, the narrowest since Aug. 19.  Fruitful Negotiations  Syria agreed to the Russian proposal to put its chemical
weapons under international control, Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem said today during a meeting with Russian lower house of
parliament speaker  Sergei Naryshkin  in Moscow, according to
Interfax.  “Yesterday we had a round of very fruitful negotiations
with Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and he proposed an
initiative concerning chemical weapons. By the evening we agreed
to the Russian initiative,” al-Muallem said. Syria took this
step “to kick the ground from under the foot of American
aggression,” the Syrian minister said in the report.  Brent advanced a fourth week last week amid concern of an
escalation of the conflict. The U.S. says President Bashar al-Assad’s regime used sarin gas outside of Damascus on Aug. 21,
killing more than 1,400 people.  Obama will make his case for U.S. action against Assad in
an address to the nation at 9 p.m. Washington time. The Senate
is expected to vote on the resolution by the end of the week.
Passage in the House of Representatives may be tougher, given
reservations expressed by lawmakers from both parties who say
their constituents overwhelmingly oppose the resolution.  Crude Stockpiles  The Middle East accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil production in the first quarter of this year, according to
the IEA. Syria borders  Iraq , the largest producer after Saudi
Arabia in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  It’s a “good sign” that crude prices have eased, Maria van der Hoeven, the IEA’s executive director, said at a
conference in  Tokyo  today. None of the agency’s member states
need to release crude from their emergency inventories, Hoeven
said. The Paris-based IEA advises 28 industrialized countries
such as the U.S., Germany and  Japan .  “The point is we always monitor the situation,” she said.
At this moment, we can see the market is sufficiently well
supplied.’’  Well-Supplied Market  OPEC said the global oil market is “well-supplied,” and
trimmed demand estimates for its crude in 2014 as production
outside the group increases.  The group will need to provide an average 29.6 million
barrels a day next year, reducing its estimate “slightly” from
last month, the group said today in its market report. OPEC’s 12
members pumped about 600,000 barrels a day more than this level
in August. OPEC boosted forecasts for output from other
producers amid supply growth in the U.S.,  Mexico  and  Norway .  U.S. crude inventories probably declined by 2 million
barrels to 358.2 million in the week ended Sept. 6, according to
the median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
before a report from the Energy Information Administration
tomorrow. That would be the lowest level since Aug. 31, 2012.  Gasoline supplies fell by 1 million barrels, the survey
showed.  Distillate fuels , a category that includes heating oil
and diesel, are expected to have increased by 500,000 barrels.  The American Petroleum Institute is scheduled to release
separate inventory data today. The industry group collects
stockpiles information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  