-- Crude Tumbles as Syria Proposal Eases Supply Concerns
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-09-10T20:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/wti-falls-as-russia-s-syria-proposal-eases-supply-concern.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
the most in three weeks as Syria agreed to a Russian plan to
surrender its chemical weapons, easing concern that the conflict
will escalate and disrupt oil shipments from the Middle East.  Futures tumbled 1.9 percent as  France  said it will submit a
proposal to the  United Nations  to confiscate Syria’s chemical
weapons. Bashar al-Assad’s government accepted the Russian plan.
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said the threat of a U.S.
military strike against Syria is needed to spur a potential
diplomatic outcome. President  Barack Obama  will outline his case
for action in a televised address tonight.  “The market is no longer factoring in an American-led
strike on Syria,” said  Michael Wittner , head of oil market
research at Societe Generale SA in New York. “Fears of an
attack on Syria and a disruption of supply are fading fast. The
Russian proposal has been picked up by various players,
including the U.S.”  WTI crude for October delivery declined $2.13 to $107.39 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Sept. 4. The volume of all futures traded was
5.4 percent above the 100-day average at 4:39 p.m.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported U.S. crude inventories dropped 2.93 million
barrels last week. The October contract fell $2.24, or 2.1
percent, to $107.28 a barrel at 4:36 p.m. It traded at $107.33
before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent Futures  Brent for October settlement decreased $2.47, or 2.2
percent, to end the session at $111.25 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Trading volume was 39 percent
higher than the 100-day average. The European benchmark traded
at $3.86 premium to WTI, down from $4.20 at yesterday’s close.  Futures advanced last week amid concern of an escalation of
the conflict. The U.S. says Assad’s regime used sarin gas
outside of Damascus on Aug. 21, killing more than 1,400 people.  “War is bullish and peace is bearish, it’s as simple as
that for traders,” said  Sarah Emerson , managing principal of
ESAI Energy Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts. “Prices are
clearly being dialed back because of the Russian proposal.”  Russia ’s Interfax news agency cited Syrian Foreign Minister
Walid al-Muallem as saying his government accepted the proposal.
Muallem was in Moscow yesterday when Russia first announced its
initiative, and said at the time he “welcomed” it.  French Proposal  France will ask the UN Security Council to approve a
resolution demanding that Syria place its chemical arms under
international control, Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said
today in Paris. The draft will call for Assad to be punished for
the alleged chemical-weapons attack, Fabius said.  Fabius said the Russian proposal mustn’t be allowed to
become a “diversion,” and the submission to the UN will help
“nail down” the idea. Russia promised to flesh out the notion.
The U.S. won’t let the plan become an excuse for inaction, Kerry
told the House Armed Services Committee today.  “The Russian proposal suits everyone politically,”
Wittner said. “The risk of an American military strike may not
be past, though. There’s a lot to be fleshed out.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said diplomatic efforts
to persuade Syria to surrender its chemical weapons should be
given time to work, as a bipartisan group of senators led by
Republican  John McCain  of  Arizona  and Democrat  Charles Schumer 
of New York are drafting an alternative to the proposal
authorizing a military strike.  ‘Real Optimism’  “There’s real optimism that the Russian proposal will
avert an attack,” said Julius Walker, global energy markets
strategist at UBS Securities LLC in New York. “Here in the
U.S., there’s been concern that Obama might not get the
political support needed to launch an attack.”  Maria van der Hoeven, the  International Energy Agency ’s
executive director, said at a conference in Tokyo today that oil
markets are sufficiently supplied without any emergency
stockpile release.  The  Middle East  accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil output in the first quarter of this year, according to the
Paris-based IEA, which advises 28 industrialized countries on
 energy policy . Syria borders Iraq, the largest crude producer
after  Saudi Arabia  in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  U.S. equities gained on Russia’s bid and after China’s
National Bureau of Statistics said the nation’s  industrial
production  and retail sales gained in August. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased
0.7 percent.  Reverse Correlation  “Oil is taking a big hit because the Russian proposal has
raised the prospect that the U.S. can avoid a military strike on
Syria,” said Bob Yawger, director of the futures division at
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York. “You are getting a
reverse correlation between the oil market and equities because
of the latest  Syria  developments.”  Prices also fell after Sliman Qajam, a member of the Libyan
parliament’s energy committee, said yesterday that crude output
rose to 600,000 barrels a day. Crude will arrive at the Libya’s
Zawiya refinery tomorrow, Mansur Abdallah, oil movement
coordinator at the facility, said today by telephone from plant.  “I doubt that any improvements in Libyan output can be
sustained,” Emerson said. “There’s not much confidence about
the government’s ability to solve the country’s conflicts. We’ll
probably continue to see progress followed by roll backs for the
foreseeable future.”  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories probably declined by 2.1 million
barrels to 358.1 million last week, according to the median
estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before a report
from the Energy Information Administration tomorrow. That would
be the lowest level since Aug. 31, 2012. The EIA is the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 25 percent, down from 25.3 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 592,320
contracts as of 4:39 p.m. It totaled 606,889 contracts
yesterday, 5.2 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.9 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  