-- Dollar Weakens as Obama Signals Syria Strike Delay
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-09-11T21:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/yen-near-7-week-low-as-syria-tensions-ease-before-fed-s-dudley.html
The dollar fell to a three-week low
as the U.S. delayed a congressional vote on military action to
consider a United Nations plan to secure Syria’s chemical
weapons, diminishing demand for haven assets.  The pound rose to the strongest level since January against
the euro as the U.K. unemployment rate moved a step closer to
the 7 percent threshold at which Bank of England Governor  Mark
Carney  has said officials will reassess their policy stance.
Australia’s dollar touched its highest versus the U.S. currency
since June before a government report tomorrow that economists
said will show the nation’s jobless rate increased in August.  “We know that the de-escalation of the  Syria crisis  is
having an effect on markets,”  Michael Woolfolk , a global-markets strategist at Bank of  New York  Mellon, said in a phone
interview. “From that point of view, it appears that the safe-haven bid is starting to wear off and is prompting players to
move back out of the dollar.”  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which measures the
greenback against 10 major peers, fell 0.4 percent to 1,024.01
at 5 p.m. in New York, touching the weakest level since Aug. 21.
The U.S. currency fell 0.3 percent to $1.3311 per euro and
dropped 0.5 percent to 99.89 per yen.  The pound gained 0.2 percent to 84.16 pence per euro after
reaching 83.83 pence, the strongest level since Jan. 23. The
U.K. currency rose 0.5 percent to $1.5818 after touching
$1.5827, the highest since Feb. 8.  Technical Trend  The yen may fall to the weakest versus the dollar in almost
four months if a support level fails to hold, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG.  “With a triangle-continuation pattern in place, we stay
bullish” on the dollar against the yen,  David Sneddon , global
head of technical analysis in  London  at Credit Suisse, wrote
today in a note to clients.  New Zealand ’s dollar added 0.2 percent to 80.81 U.S. cents,
touching the strongest since Aug. 19. The kiwi slid 0.3 percent
to 80.72 yen.  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  left the official cash rate
at record low 2.50 percent.  “Rate increases will likely be required next year,” Reserve
Bank of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler said in a statement
in Wellington today. At the same time, restrictions on low-deposit home lending will mean rates rising less than they
otherwise would have, and “we expect to keep the cash rate
unchanged in 2013,” Wheeler said.  Rand Rally  South Africa’s rand advanced to its strongest level in four
weeks against the dollar. It traded 1.1 percent stronger at
9.8704 per dollar after appreciating to the strongest since Aug.
12.  Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York President William C.
Dudley speaks tomorrow amid forecasts U.S. policy makers are
moving closer to slowing bond purchases.  Dudley said in July that economic growth will probably
quicken next year, possibly warranting a reduction in bond
purchases. The Fed is forecast to slow its monthly buying to $75
billion from the current $85 billion pace at its Sept. 17-18
meeting, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by  Bloomberg News  on Sept. 6.  “There’s definitely some consolidation going on,” said
Kasper Kirkegaard, a senior currency strategist at  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “We have to wait until the Fed’s meeting
next week for the next real catalyst.”  Yearly Total  The yen has depreciated 11.3 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar is up 3.8
percent and the euro has gained 4.8 percent.  Australia ’s dollar gained 0.2 percent to 93.29 U.S. cents
after touching 93.37.  The nation’s  jobless rate  rose to a four-year high of 5.8
percent last month, from 5.7 percent in July, according to the
median estimate of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before
tomorrow’s report.  BOE officials introduced forward guidance last month and
said they won’t raise their key  interest rate  until joblessness
falls to 7 percent. While they don’t see that happening until
late 2016, recent signs of strength in the economy have prompted
investors to bet on an increase before then. Carney and three
other members of the Monetary Policy Committee will testify on
their guidance framework in Parliament tomorrow.  Pound Strength  The U.K. “is starting to exit slowly from a fairly poor
growth profile and it continues to surprise on the top side,”
 Sebastien Galy , a senior currency strategist at Societe Generale
SA in New York, said in a telephone interview. “It’s definitely
going in the right direction, and it’s also being helped by the
 euro zone , which is starting to outperform.”  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $25.5 billion, compared with $22.7 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $6.7 billion, the
largest share of trades at 26 percent. Options on the greenback-yuan rate totaled $4.6 billion, or 18 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 44 percent more than the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. U.S. currency versus  yuan 
options trading was about 400 percent more than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  