-- Zimbabwe’s Mugabe Names Chinamasa Finance Minister
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-09-10T16:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-10/zimbabwe-s-mugabe-names-patrick-chinamasa-finance-minister.html
(Corrects Mugabe’s age in third paragraph.)  Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe
named Patrick Chinamasa as finance minister and replaced his
mining and indigenization ministers in his cabinet after winning
elections in July to extend his 33-year rule.  Emmerson Mnangagwa will take over Chinamasa’s position as
head of the justice ministry and Francis Nhema will be the
indigenization minister, Misheck Sibanda, chief secretary to the
cabinet, told reporters told reporters in Harare, the capital,
today. Sidney Sekeremayi, the former minister of state security,
was named defense minister, while Jonathan Moyo becomes
information minister and Walter Chidakwa replaces Obert Mpofu as
mining minister. The cabinet will be sworn in tomorrow.  Mugabe, 89, consolidated control of the southern African
nation last month after his Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front party captured a two-thirds majority in
parliament and he won another five-year term as president.
Mugabe has pledged to accelerate plans to take stakes in banks
and mining companies to return control of the economy to black
Zimbabweans.  With its indigenization policy, Mugabe and Zanu-PF have
forced mining companies such as  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) 
and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  to cede majority stakes in
their local assets to black Zimbabweans or the government. The
southern African nation has the world’s second-biggest platinum
and chrome reserves, as well as diamond, gold and coal deposits.  The new cabinet marks the end of a coalition government
with Morgan Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  