-- ‘Hobbit’ No. 1 Movie Again With $37 Million in Ticket Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-12-23T19:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/-hobbit-repeats-as-top-movie-with-37-million-in-ticket-sales.html
“The Hobbit,” the first of
director Peter Jackson’s three movies based on the J.R.R.
Tolkien novel, was the top-grossing film at U.S. and Canadian
theaters for a second weekend with $36.7 million in sales.  “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey” outdrew five new
films opening in wide release, including the Tom Cruise thriller
“Jack Reacher” and director Judd Apatow’s “This Is 40,”
researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Hollywood studios are expected to take in a record $10.8
billion for the year, the estimate of  Hollywood.com , propelled
by films including “The Hobbit,” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s New
Line Cinema and  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. (MGMB) , and summer hits such
as  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Marvel’s The Avengers.”  “The hold at number one for ’The Hobbit’ is pretty good
because it has a large built-in audience that came out upfront
on opening day,” Gitesh Pandya, editor of industry website
 Boxofficeguru.com , said in a phone interview.  The weekend also saw limited releases of award contenders
including “Zero Dark Thirty,” director Kathryn Bigelow’s
account of the hunt for and killing of Osama Bin Laden. The
film, featuring Jessica Chastain, Joel Edgerton and Chris Pratt,
has taken in $639,000 since opening in five theaters on Dec. 19.
The movie, from Sony Corp., is scheduled for wide release on
Jan. 11.  “It’s one of the hottest tickets in town,” Pandya said.
“Their strategy is to release it nationwide the day after Oscar
nominations are announced to capitalize on the Oscar heat.”  Bilbo Returns  “The Impossible,”  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s tale
about the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, opened in 14 theaters with
total ticket sales of about $139,000. Naomi Watts was nominated
for a Golden Globe award for best actress for her role in the
drama. Ewan McGregor also stars.  In “The Hobbit,” Bilbo Baggins is recruited by the wizard
Gandalf to join an expedition of dwarves seeking to reclaim
their homeland and a treasure lost to the dragon Smaug. The book
was published in 1937, almost two decades before the first of
Tolkien’s “Rings” novels.  The 3-D film is the first to be projected at 48 frames a
second, double the usual speed. Jackson has said that the
technology improves the quality of 3-D images, particularly in
scenes with fast action. The movie is the first of three planned
on Tolkien’s book.  “The Hobbit” stars Martin Freeman as Bilbo. Ian McKellen
returns as Gandalf from the Rings trilogy. Andy Serkis again
plays Gollum, the slimy, half-naked creature from the Rings
trilogy.  Cruise Control  “The Hobbit” has taken in $149.9 million since it was
released on Dec. 14. The second movie in the new series, “The
Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug,” is scheduled for release next
year, according to the Internet Movie Database.  “Jack Reacher” collected $15.6 million in its debut for
 Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures to place second. Based on the
character from novelist Lee Child, the film features Cruise as a
former military police officer who conducts his own ruthless
investigation into a mass shooting. In the process, he runs
afoul of a villain played by German director Werner Herzog.  “This Is 40” opened with sales of $12 million for  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures to place third. Paul Rudd and  Leslie
Mann  pick up the story of Pete and Debbie, characters they
played in Apatow’s 2007 film “Knocked Up.” Albert Brooks and
Megan Fox co-star in the film.  3-D Versions  The comedy “The Guilt Trip” opened in sixth place with
revenue of $5.4 million for Paramount. The film features Barbra Streisand as an overbearing mother who accompanies her son,
played by Seth Rogen, on a 3,000-mile road trip. Yvonne
Strahovski and Colin Hanks co-star.  Among returning films, “Rise of the Guardians” had sales
of $5.9 million, placing fourth for the weekend. The film from
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. pits storybook figures such as
Santa Claus, Jack Frost and the Sandman against an evil force
threatening children.  “Lincoln,” Steven Spielberg’s examination of the 16th
U.S. president’s political campaign to end slavery, was fifth
with receipts of $5.6 million, bringing its domestic total to
$116.8 million. It was produced by the director’s DreamWorks
Studios and is being distributed by Disney.  Walt Disney’s release of a 3-D version of Pixar’s
“Monsters Inc.” registered sales of about $5 million to finish
seventh. The film took in $526 million worldwide in its original
2-D format in 2001, according to Box Office Mojo, another film
researcher. The movie features the voices of Billy Crystal, John Goodman and Bonnie Hunt. The sequel “Monsters University” is
scheduled for June 2013.  Weekend Revenue Slips  Another new 3-D wide release was “Cirque du Soleil: Worlds
Away,” a picture from Paramount that collected $2.1 million to
place 11th. The film follows two young people who are separated
and must find one another after entering a dreamlike world.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 11 percent to
$101.5 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Dec.
21-22 and estimates for today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Princeton at 
 mwhite110@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  