-- Hagel Would Get ‘Hard Questions’ from Republican Senators
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/hagel-would-get-hard-questions-from-republican-senators.html
Former Senator Chuck Hagel would be
a “challenging nomination” for Secretary of Defense, a key
Republican senator said.  “The Republicans are going to ask him hard questions, and
I don’t think he’s going to get many Republican votes,” Senator
 Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, a member of the Armed Services
Committee, said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “I think
it would be a challenging nomination.”  Graham said Hagel’s positions “are really out of the
mainstream and well to the left of the president.”  Hagel, 66, a former Republican senator from Nebraska and
decorated Vietnam War veteran, is under consideration by
President Barack Obama to succeed Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , White House officials have said on condition of
anonymity in advance of a decision.  Senate Democrats have declined to endorse Hagel, saying
they would wait until he was formally nominated to evaluate him.
“Until that point, I think we’re not going to know what’s going
to happen,” said  Charles Schumer  of New York, the No. 3 Senate
Democratic leader said on NBC.  Opposition to a Hagel nomination has developed due to his
comments opposing the troop surge during the Iraq war,
questioning economic sanctions against Iran and citing the
influence of the “Jewish lobby.”  Hagel has apologized for his 1998 statements about James Hormel, who was appointed ambassador to Luxembourg by President
 Bill Clinton . Hagel questioned whether an “openly, aggressively
gay” person could properly represent the U.S. abroad. Hagel
said on Dec. 21 that those comments were “insensitive.”  Retiring Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent,
said on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” that he would have “some
really serious questions” to ask Hagel about his positions on
Israel and Iran.  “I think this will be a very tough confirmation process,”
he said. “I don’t know how it would end but there are
reasonable questions to ask and that Chuck Hagel will have to
answer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 