-- Malaysia Opposition Seeks Petronas Policy Shift: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-12-23T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/malaysia-opposition-seeks-petronas-policy-shift-southeast-asia.html
Malaysian opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim , set to challenge Prime Minister Najib Razak in polls
early next year, will press the state energy company to boost
investments in overseas oilfields while easing local exploration.  Anwar would probably reduce the 30 billion ringgit ($9.8
billion) of dividend Petroliam Nasional Bhd. pays the government
every year to free up funds for energy assets abroad, Rafizi
Ramli, strategic director at Anwar’s People’s Justice Party,
said in an interview. Petronas, as the company is known, paid
C$5.2 billion ($5.2 billion) for Canadian shale-gas producer
Progress Energy Resources Corp. this month.  “There’s a higher probability you’ll strike bigger
reserves should those resources be deployed to discover oil
blocks overseas,” Rafizi said in the Dec. 18 interview in Kuala
Lumpur. “We’ll lose out in the long-term from opportunity lost,
especially when the Chinese are particularly aggressive in
acquiring blocks around the world.”  The opposition said a policy change may help Malaysia gain
better returns from the record 300 billion ringgit Petronas
plans to invest over five years to replenish the nation’s
shrinking reserves. Since 2010,  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest
oil and gas producer has offered global oil explorers tax breaks
and production-sharing accords to cushion the risk of surveying
offshore sites.  Explore, Acquire  “They should be both exploring marginal fields and buying
blocks abroad,” IHS Consulting Managing Director  Victor Shum 
said in a phone interview from  Singapore . “It’s about which
opportunities are likely to be more successful and cost-
efficient. They need to explore the fields to find out.”  London-based  Petrofac Ltd. (PFC) ,  Canada ’s Coastal Energy Co. and
 Australia ’s  Roc Oil Co. (ROC)  are among companies that have agreed to
help exploit these so-called marginal fields. Exploring the
fields could potentially lead to additional oil revenue of more
than 50 billion ringgit over the next 20 years, Najib said, when
announcing incentives in November 2010.  “It’s very short-term,” said Rafizi, who used to work in
the business planning unit of Petronas, which manages all the
nation’s energy reserves. “It’s not just a question of finance,
it’s about the time and manpower resources. The potential for
huge discovery is actually quite limited.”  Petronas spokesman Azman Ibrahim declined to comment when
reached by phone on Dec. 21.  Push Boundaries  “It makes sense for the national  oil company  to be pushing
the boundaries of exploration,” Andrew Harwood, an analyst at
consulting group Wood Mackenzie Ltd. in Singapore, said in a
phone interview. “It’s using its resources to go after the
substantial plays, while leaving the small and understood areas
to other companies.”  Najib, who must dissolve parliament for elections by April
28, is fighting to hold on to power after five decades of
unbroken rule. His National Front coalition survived the last
election four years ago by its narrowest margin since
independence in 1957.  To fund the 300 billion ringgit investment, Kuala Lumpur-
based Petronas, the biggest single contributor to state revenue,
should switch to a dividend payout ratio of 30 percent of profit
rather than pay the government 30 billion ringgit annually,
irrespective of financial performance, Chief Executive Officer
Shamsul Azhar Abbas said in September.  Dividend Peg  An Anwar administration would peg dividends to an
unspecified percentage of profit, Rafizi said. A senate
committee would probably be formed to boost transparency and
oversee the state energy company, which reports directly to the
prime minister.  “Petronas should be left to run purely on a commercial
basis,” he said.  Malaysia  extended the anticipated lifespan of its oil
reserves by 1.5 percent to 5.95 billion barrels as of Jan. 1,
enough to last 29 years, the  finance ministry  said Sept. 28.
Although reserves grew 3.6 percent to 92.1 trillion cubic feet,
underground gas holdings should last 37 years, two years less
than previously forecast, the government said.  Anwar’s opposition coalition, which controls four of
Malaysia’s 13 states, is debating whether it would continue with
the current government’s plans to develop a $20 billion oil
storage, refining and petrochemicals hub at Pengerang in Johor,
bordering Singapore. Should it proceed, it would review the
environmental impact and land compensation, Rafizi said.  Full Transparency  Royal Vopak NV (VPK) , the world’s biggest chemical and oil
storage company, agreed in September to partner with Malaysia’s
 Dialog Group Bhd. (DLG)  to develop a 4.1 billion ringgit-liquefied
natural gas terminal in the area. Other global investors at
Pengerang include  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest chemicals maker.  The Johor energy hub is a key initiative under an Economic
Transformation Program announced by Najib two years ago to
attain developed nation status by 2020 by boosting investment
and moving up the value chain. An Anwar government would review
and shrink the program, scrapping projects it considers unviable.  “We don’t know enough,” Rafizi said. “Concerns have to
be addressed in full transparency. If everything is taken care
of, we have no issues with Pengerang.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers in Singapore at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  