-- Manchester United Keeps 7-Point Lead After Win Over Liverpool
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2013-01-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/manchester-united-ties-at-swansea-chelsea-routs-aston-villa-8-0.html
Manchester United retained its
seven-point lead in soccer’s Premier League after a 2-1 victory
over Liverpool yesterday, as second-place Manchester City won 2-
0 at 10-man Arsenal.  Robin van Persie  and  Nemanja Vidic  scored for United at Old
Trafford, with halftime substitute Daniel Sturridge replying for
the visitors.  “All in all, it was an engrossing game as we expected in a
Manchester United-Liverpool match,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told MUTV. “It was a magnificent performance in the
first half, as well as we’ve played for a long time.”  Arsenal played more than 80 minutes with 10 men after
Laurent Koscielny was red-carded for bringing down Edin Dzeko in
the penalty area. James Milner and Dzeko scored for City, which
had defender  Vincent Kompany  dismissed after 75 minutes.  United has 55 points and City is on 48, with Chelsea
another seven points back. Tottenham has 40 points. Arsenal
remains in sixth and Liverpool eighth.  At Old Trafford, Van Persie got the opening goal after 19
minutes. The Dutchman’s 21st strike of the season came after
 Patrice Evra  delivered a cross that Van Persie struck low into
the net from about eight yards.  Danny Welbeck  had a chance on 33 minutes when Liverpool
midfielder  Joe Allen  gave away the ball, but fired over. United
had a further opportunity four minutes before halftime when Tom Cleverley flashed a shot just wide.  Reina Hurt  Just before the interval, Rafael da Silva ran into the
penalty area and crossed the ball to Van Persie, who tried to
backheel it into the net.  Martin Skrtel  stopped the ball
crossing the line and Shinji Kagawa was unable to score from the
follow-up.  Goalkeeper Pepe Reina needed lengthy treatment after
colliding with Kagawa, but was able to continue.  Liverpool, which struggled to create opportunities in the
first half, introduced Sturridge for the second half in an
attacking substitution for Lucas.  The Reds, though, were soon trailing 2-0.  Van Persie  took a
free kick in the 54th minute and when Evra headed back across
goal the ball hit Vidic’s head and flew past Reina.  Sturridge cut the deficit three minutes later.  Steven Gerrard  tested David de Gea with a 20-yard shot that the
goalkeeper could only parry and Sturridge tapped into an empty
net.  Reina saved from Kagawa, while Sturridge had two late
chances for Liverpool. On 85 minutes, Sturridge hit a shot over
the bar after tenacious work by  Luis Suarez  in the penalty area,
then in injury time the England forward hit the side netting
after a quick free kick.  ‘Hard Work’  Van Persie tried to score with a backheel from 10 yards
soon after, but Reina was able to hold the ball.  “I think those three points are very, very important
ones,” Ferguson said. “It was hard work after they scored to
be honest with you and I’m just glad we won the match.”  Before City’s game at Arsenal, the Emirates Stadium was
cordoned off for a time when police found a “suspect package.”
The match was able to start on time after the all-clear.  With less than 10 minutes played the home team had
Koscielny dismissed after he pulled down Dzeko, who took the
resulting penalty. Goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny deflected the
spot-kick against a post and then collected the ball when it
rolled back toward him along the goal line.  The Gunners held out until the 21st minute, the home team’s
defense reacting slowly to a quick free kick that ended with
Milner firing into the net from a tight angle.  Dzeko scored 10 minutes later from close range after
Szczesny saved from  Carlos Tevez .  Kompany Dismissed  Jack Wilshere  prevented City from increasing its lead just
before halftime with a clearing header off the line to keep out
a shot by Javi Garcia.  Kompany was red-carded for a two-footed challenge on
Wilshere, even though he won the ball. City manager  Roberto Mancini  told Sky Sports that he plans to appeal the decision.  Theo Walcott came closest to getting a goal for Arsenal as
he shot past goalkeeper Joe Hart in the final minute of
regulation time. Joleon Lescott got back to clear the ball.  “I don‘t know if it was a red card but it was a penalty,”
Dzeko told Sky Sports of Koscielny’s dismissal. “I didn’t score
but I knew I was going to score after. I said to myself ‘You’ve
missed but are playing well.’ I knew I would score when I had
the chance.”  Two days ago, last-place Queens Park Rangers held Tottenham
to a 0-0 tie, while  Aston Villa  slipped into the three-team
relegation positions with a 1-0 defeat by Southampton. Reading
rallied to beat West Bromwich Albion 3-2, and Wigan had a 1-1
draw at Fulham.  Chelsea defeated Stoke 4-0, Sunderland beat West Ham 3-0,
and there were no goals in the matches between Everton and
Swansea, and Norwich and Newcastle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 