-- Australian Home Loan Arrears Fall to 1.36% in 3rd Quarter
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-12-23T22:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/australian-home-loan-arrears-fall-to-1-36-in-3rd-quarter.html
The share of Australian home owners
missing  payments  on their mortgages dropped “significantly” in
the third quarter as borrowers benefited from interest-rate cuts
and unemployment remained low, Fitch Ratings said.  The proportion of home loan payments more than 30 days late
fell to 1.36 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, from
1.54 in the previous quarter, the ratings company said in a
statement today.  The Reserve Bank of Australia has cut its benchmark
interest rate by 1.75 percentage points since Nov. 1, 2011, to 3
percent, matching a half-century low. Standard variable home
loan costs were 6.65 percent as of Nov. 30, the least since
February 2010, central bank data show. The nation’s unemployment
rate unexpectedly dropped to 5.2 percent in November, from 5.4
percent the month prior, as a labor market driven by mining-
industry hiring weathers a weaker global economy.  “The two interest rate cuts in the second quarter have
given borrowers additional relief,” Hai Duong Le, a Sydney-
based analyst in Fitch’s structured finance team, said in the
statement. “This is despite the fact that Australian lenders
have not passed on the full benefit of recent rate cuts.”  Home prices in  Australia ’s eight state and territory
capitals fell 0.1 percent in November from a year earlier,
according to researcher RP Data. Houses in Perth and Darwin will
lead a price recovery in 2013 with gains of as much as 7
percent, according to a Australian Property Monitors report this
month.  The share of low-documentation loans that were more than 30
days late fell to 6.98 percent from 7.19 percent in the second
quarter, Fitch said. While self-employed borrowers typically
take longer to catch up on payments and cure their delinquency
status given the nature of cash flow in the sector, low interest
rates will bring relief, it said.  Fitch tracks delinquencies of mortgages underlying prime
and so-called low-doc Australian residential mortgage-backed
securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  