-- Australia Sees Surplus in 2014 as Forecast Slips on Revenue Drop
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-12-23T13:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/australia-sees-surplus-in-2014-as-forecast-slips-on-revenue-fall.html
Australia ’s budget should return to
surplus in 2014 even as a drop in  tax revenue  forced the
government to give up a pledge to balance its books in the
current fiscal year, the country’s trade minister said.  The original target of a surplus in the fiscal year ending
June 2013 could be achieved if positive signs around household
spending continue through the rest of the year, Craig Emerson
said in an interview on Sky News television yesterday. The
country’s Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said Dec. 20 the government was
unlikely to have a surplus because of a fall in tax revenues.  “There are good things going on in the economy,” Emerson
said, citing prospects of improving performance for car sales,
the housing market and the retail industry. “So long as the
economy continues to improve we would get a surplus next year.”  With an election due in 2013, Australia’s Labor government
has staked its economic credibility in part on delivering the
first surplus since the 2009 global recession. Threatening that
commitment is a weaker international outlook, lower prices of
commodity exports and a high local dollar that’s hurting non-
resource industries such as tourism and manufacturing.  The government is “spending like a drunken sailor” and
dropping the surplus commitment was a breach of trust,
opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said in a Dec. 21 interview with
Seven Network television.  “This mob don’t get it when it comes to the economy,” he
said, according to a  transcript .  Forecasts Downgraded  The downgrade to the government’s budget forecasts was
necessary as tax receipts in the months from July to October
came in below earlier expectations, Emerson said yesterday. That
could still turn around if other sectors of the economy improve.  “I have not ruled out, nor should anyone rule out, the
possibility of a surplus in 2012-2013,” Emerson said. “However,
it is looking unlikely. Let’s see how those figures pan out for
the rest of the year.”  In an e-mailed  statement  yesterday, Swan said Australia had
one of the strongest budget positions in the developed world and
blamed “negativity” for hurting household confidence.  “We have solid growth, low unemployment, contained
inflation, lower  interest rates  and record levels of
investment,” he said. “We will keep managing the budget in a
balanced way, exercising spending restraint while supporting
growth and jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  