-- Lawmakers Say Time Short to Reach Deal on Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-12-24T12:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/lawmakers-say-time-short-to-reach-deal-on-fiscal-cliff.html
Lawmakers said they were losing
confidence that Congress and President  Barack Obama  can reach a
deal within a week to avoid more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts that could cause a U.S. recession.  “For the first time I feel it’s more likely that we will
go off the cliff,” Senator Joseph Lieberman, a retiring
 Connecticut  independent, said yesterday on CNN’s “ State of the
Union ” program about the so-called fiscal cliff.  In the aftermath of House Speaker John Boehner’s failure to
garner support from his caucus for “Plan B,” which would have
extended tax cuts on incomes below $1 million, Lieberman said
Senate leaders now must take charge of resolving the budget
stalemate.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, and
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, “have
the ability to put this together again and pass something” and
“they can do some things that will avoid the worst
consequences,” Lieberman said.  Lawmakers plan to return to Washington Dec. 27 to continue
negotiating. Tax cuts signed into law by President George W. Bush and extended by Obama are scheduled to expire Jan. 1. In
addition, automatic spending reductions to domestic and defense
programs are scheduled to start next month.  Interim Bill  Before leaving to spend the Christmas holiday on vacation
with his family in  Hawaii , Obama on Dec. 21 urged leaders of
both parties to put together an interim bill to keep taxes from
rising on middle-income Americans as they work on a more
comprehensive package.  Failing to reach a budget deal would push the U.S. into
recession for the first half of 2013, according to the
nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  U.S. stock futures fell, indicating that the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index will extend its biggest tumble in five weeks,
amid concern over the budget dispute.  Contracts on the S&P 500 expiring in March retreated 0.3
percent to 1,421.2 at 7:25 a.m. in New York. Dow Jones
Industrial Average futures lost 37 points, or 0.3 percent, to
13,099. Trading on the New York Stock Exchange will close at 1
p.m. today for the Christmas holiday.  Senator Kent Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat who is
chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said on “Fox News
Sunday” that it’s still possible to reach an agreement before
the deadline. Obama and Boehner “were so close and then Speaker
Boehner went off on Plan B. I never understood why, it had no
prospect of succeeding.”  No Change  Republican Representative Mick Mulvaney of South Carolina
said that the rejection of the Ohio Republican’s plan doesn’t
change the probability that the fiscal provisions will be
triggered because the Obama administration won’t compromise.  “Passing Plan B the other night would not have changed the
outcome,” Mulvaney said on  CNN . “We were going to go over the
cliff then, we are going to go over the cliff now. You cannot
negotiate with someone who does not want to negotiate.”  Representative Steven LaTourette, a nine-term Ohio
Republican who is retiring after this session, said on CNN
yesterday that Boehner dropped his proposal because it didn’t
have broader support from members, and that he is more willing
to allow disagreement than his predecessors were.  ‘Divergent Opinions’  “The reason Speaker Boehner has trouble managing the House
Republican Conference isn’t a lack of leadership,” LaTourette
said. “It’s because we have a lot of divergent opinions and he
lets people participate, which wasn’t the case in the past.”  Wyoming Senator John Barrasso, a member of the Republican
leadership, said that the fiscal cliff probably will occur
because President Obama believes doing so will hurt Republicans.  “I believe the president is eager to go over the cliff for
political purposes,” Barrasso said on Fox yesterday. “He
senses a victory at the bottom of the cliff. I think it hurts
our country and hurts our economy.”  By splitting the difference between their rival plans,
Obama and Boehner probably can agree on a sufficient package and
avoid a contraction that causes a recession and increased
unemployment, Conrad said.  “What we ought to do is take Speaker Boehner’s last offer,
the president’s last offer, split the difference, and that would
be a package of about $2.6 trillion,” Conrad said on Fox. “You
couple that with the $1.1 trillion that’s already done. And,
that would be close to the $4 trillion needed to stabilize the
debt and begin to bring it down.”  Offered Concessions  Both Obama and Boehner have offered concessions in talks
between the two, both in person and by telephone, since Dec. 5.  The president initially sought $1.6 trillion in new
revenue, including a return to pre-Bush income tax rates for
household income over $250,000 a year. The speaker first
rejected any increase in tax rates, instead offering $800
billion in revenue by limiting unspecified tax exemptions.  After Boehner proposed raising taxes for households earning
more than $1 million a year, Obama countered with a proposal to
raise taxes on more than $400,000 of income.  Obama also has agreed to accept cuts in entitlement
spending on programs such as Medicare, while Boehner has
maintained that new taxes and spending cuts must be balanced on
a one-to-one basis.  In sum, the two have approached the outlines of a plan that
would raise about $1 trillion in tax revenue and cut about $1
trillion in spending. Any final agreement between the two,
however, requires approval of a Republican-run House which has
balked at tax increases and the Democratic-controlled Senate.  Passed Legislation  The Senate has passed legislation making the reductions
permanent for income up to $250,000 for families and $200,000
for individuals, which would mean 98 percent of taxpayers and 97
percent of small businesses wouldn’t see a tax increase. Every
Senate Republican voted against the package.  House Republicans have voted to extend all of the Bush tax
cuts, which Democrats oppose. They’ve also passed legislation
with no Democratic votes to cut food stamps and other domestic
programs rather than defense.  The  CBO said  last month that extending the tax cuts for
families earning $250,000 or less would boost the U.S. gross
domestic product by 1.25 percent, while extending them for all
taxpayers would boost the GDP by less than one-quarter of a
percent more.  Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama attended a memorial
service in Honolulu yesterday for U.S. Senator Daniel Inouye,
who died Dec. 17 of respiratory complications. On Dec. 22, Obama
golfed at a course at a Marine Corps base and at night went to
dinner with his wife, other family members and friends.  Scaled-Down Plan  Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, said that
lawmakers may still be able to agree on a scaled-down plan that
gives them time to make a larger deal later.  “I think there’s unfortunately only going to be a small
deal,” Warner said yesterday on “Face the Nation” on CBS.
“We have to realize it’s going to take revenues, spending cuts
and entitlement reform.”  Republican Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas also said
on the same program that the president and Congress could work
out a deal before the end of the year. Lawmakers may return
after Christmas ready to negotiate, she said.  “I have an abiding faith that we will not leave,” said
Hutchison, who is retiring. “We’ve got to do something to do a
patch now, which, clearly, on Dec. 27, when Mark Warner and I go
back, it is going to be a patch because in four days we can’t
solve everything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  