-- Banks Piggybacking Upgrade Bets to Sell More Debt: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-12-23T22:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/banks-piggybacking-upgrade-bets-to-sell-more-debt-turkey-credit.html
Turkish banks will sell a record
amount of dollar bonds again in 2013 as investor bets for an
investment-grade ranking from a second ratings company push
yields lower, according to the country’s biggest brokerage.  “Turkish banks’ bond sales may increase by around 40
percent next year,” Ugursel Onder, a fixed-income analyst at Is
Investment, said in a Dec. 21 phone interview from Istanbul. “I
expect borrowing costs to come down even more, especially with
expectations of an upgrade.”  Lenders sold $15.8 billion of bonds in the U.S. currency
this year, triple the amount in 2011, while trailing behind the
$22.4 billion from Russian lenders, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Yields on five-year dollar bonds of  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) ,
partly owned by Citigroup Inc., have dropped 339 basis points
this year, compared with a 198 basis-point decline for
equivalent debt from  OAO Sberbank (SBER) ,  Russia ’s largest bank.  Fitch Ratings  handed Turkey its first investment-grade
ranking since 1994 in November, citing a “sound banking
system“ and favorable growth prospects. Moody’s Investors
Service rates Turkey one step lower than Fitch at Ba1, while
 Standard & Poor’s  is a further notch down at BB. Moody’s, which
has a positive outlook, said in a Nov. 20 report that Turkey’s
prospects for an investment-grade rating will be driven by its
“vulnerability to balance-of-payment shocks.”  ‘Liquidity Crunch’  Turkey’s  current-account deficit , which surged to about 10
percent of gross domestic product at the end of 2011, the second
highest level worldwide, after the U.S., narrowed for an 12th
month in October as imports shrank. The inflation rate fell to
6.4 percent in November, the slowest in 14 months, according to
the  statistics office’s website .  Banks may need additional financing to expand lending as
economic growth picks up, based on analyst forecasts.  Turkey ’s
economy will expand by 4.1 percent next year, up from an
estimated 3 percent in 2012, according to the average of 24
economist estimates on Bloomberg.  Deposit growth has lagged behind the increase in lending to
date. Loans have increased by 14 percent this year to 787.2
billion liras ($438.4 billion), while deposits rose by 8.7
percent, according to the  banking regulator’s website . Bond
sales in dollars and liras rose to a total $36.8 billion from
$14 billion in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  World’s Biggest  The increase in dollar debt is a concern for S&P. The
ratings company said the reliance on external funding could
cause a “liquidity crunch,” according to a Dec. 5 report.  “It is understandable Turkish banks would find borrowing
abroad at these attractive rates,” Kaan Nazli, a senior
economist at ING Investment Management  Europe  in  The Hague , said
in a telephone interview on Dec. 21.  Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi TAO (VAKBN) , Turkey’s third-largest state
lender, sold $500 million of five-year bonds on April 24. The
yield has since dropped 65 basis points. In the domestic market,
Vakifbank’s six-month lira-denominated bonds are yielding 6.17
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yields on Turkey’s  two-year benchmark  debt rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.02 percent on Dec. 21, the
fourth day of increases, taking this year’s decline to 499 basis
points, the biggest drop among 20 major countries worldwide
tracked by Bloomberg.  The lira lost 0.5 percent against the dollar to 1.7964 at
6:08 p.m. in Istanbul on Dec. 21, the biggest depreciation since
Nov. 12, paring this year’s gain to 5.3 percent.  Maturity Mismatch  Five-year credit-default swaps on Turkey rose three basis
points to 126 on Dec. 21. That compared with 131 for Russia, 85
for  Poland  and 142 for  South Africa . Lower prices signal
improving perceptions of a borrower’s creditworthiness, while
the reverse shows deterioration. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or cash if
a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkish debt
denominated in dollars rather than U.S. Treasuries fell three
basis points to 173, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global Index. The premium compares with 385 at the end of last
year, and 160 for Russia.  Funding through dollar bonds helps Turkish banks overcome
the maturity mismatch between short-term deposits and longer-
term loans. Dollar bonds have an average maturity of five years,
which is 10 times longer than lira debt and 20 times the
maturity of deposits, which average about three months,
according to data from  central bank  and Bloomberg.  Lenders will take advantage of falling yields to extend the
maturity of dollar bonds to 10 years or more, while also
increasing lira notes to three years, Is Investment’s Onder
said.  “Turkish bank debt is getting more attractive as the risk
appetite for emerging-market debt improves,” ING’s Nazli said.
“Expectations of a second upgrade will further boost the
Turkish market at least for the next six months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  