-- Benghazi’s Real Lessons
-- B y   A l l i s o n   S t a n g e r
-- 2012-12-23T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/benghazi-s-real-lessons.html
An independent  inquiry  into the
attacks in Benghazi, Libya, that killed four Americans this
September found U.S. security measures to have been inadequate.
Four midlevel State Department officials have lost their jobs in
response.  But learning the right lessons from Benghazi requires
looking beyond “leadership and management deficiencies at
senior levels within two bureaus of the State Department” to
the “systemic failures” the advisory board report referenced.
The State Department’s dependence on private security
contractors is one aspect of those systemic failures that has
yet to be publicly discussed.  The State Department has long been understaffed for the
unprecedented mission the U.S. has pursued in  Afghanistan , Iraq
and Libya. Its in-house security provider,  Diplomatic Security ,
is ill equipped to do its job in three war zones simultaneously.
Currently, less than 1,000 DS agents guard 275 American
embassies and consulates. The State Department has tried to
stretch its coverage by hiring armed contractors to keep its
diplomats out of harm’s way.  Diplomatic Insecurity  But State didn’t have this option in Libya. Many news media
reports mistakenly identified the two Navy SEALs who perished in
Benghazi as security contractors for the State Department. They
were not. In early 2012, Libya’s new government had expressly
banned the use of foreign or domestic armed security contractors
on Libyan soil.  The State Department thus had no choice; if it wanted to
behave diplomatically, it had to rely on the nascent Libyan
police,  unarmed locals  under contract, its own DS service and an
assist from the Pentagon. When the chief security officer at the
American Embassy in Tripoli requested a third extension of that
U.S. military support and was denied by his colleagues in
 Washington , ostensibly for cost reasons, this created a security
vacuum that terrorists were able to exploit.  The State Department has long used local personnel to guard
its embassies abroad without significant incident. The leap of
faith it took in Afghanistan and Iraq was to extend similar
arrangements to war zones. International companies hiring locals
and third-party nationals offered to provide security in these
high-threat environments. Instead of fortifying DS to do the
job, State could contract out to these companies for security as
needed; when the extraordinary wartime circumstances had drawn
to a close, it would not be stuck with a surplus of DS agents.  Over the course of a dangerous decade, extraordinary
circumstances became ordinary ones, and what began as a stopgap
measure became business as usual. The State Department continued
to rely on Blackwater (later Xe and  now  Academi) for its
security needs even after Blackwater’s hired guns had become
highly controversial, simply because it had no choice but to
find some way to operate safely in  Iraq .  Yet the extended use of private security contractors in
post-conflict states had unintended negative consequences for
the countries we were trying to help. In Afghanistan, for
example, a professional Afghan army and police force was hard to
build when trainees could make far better money indirectly
working for the Americans as security contractors. Moreover,
indigenous private security companies operating as
subcontractors on U.S. contracts all too easily became de facto
militias.  Empty Threats  These are two of the stated reasons that, in August 2010,
President Hamid Karzai  ordered  all private security contractors,
both foreign and domestic, to cease operations in Afghanistan by
the close of the year. He later had to backpedal because
implementing his decree would have effectively ended the U.S.
mission in Afghanistan.  With the congressional spotlight turned on Benghazi, now is
a good time to consider the many ways that U.S. reliance on
armed contractors has compromised its  interests . Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton has requested additional money from
Congress to implement the board’s findings, including hiring 150
new DS agents, a 15 percent increase in the force. At a hearing
last week, Senator John Kerry of  Massachusetts , the chairman of
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee who will be nominated to
succeed Clinton, placed some of the blame for Benghazi on
Congress for failing to give the State Department the resources
it needed.  It’s not just a matter of resources, but also of how those
resources are deployed. Last week’s hearing didn’t confront this
question. The word “contractor,” for example, doesn’t even
appear in the transcript. With congressional acquiescence, the
department can hire more DS agents -- though once the urgency of
the Benghazi report recedes, whether Congress has the stomach to
pay for enough of them will be an open and continuing question.
In the absence of that commitment, hiring security contractors
will continue to be the path of least political resistance.  That raises a larger question about how ambitious U.S.
foreign policy can afford to be. The contractors’ wars that the
U.S. has waged in the past decade have been undertaken on the
assumption that the private sector could solve problems that
were beyond the capacity of the U.S. government to resolve. The
real lesson of Benghazi may be that prolonged dependence on
contractors can keep us from asking whether what we’re trying to
get done is even doable in the first place.  (Allison Stanger is the Russell Leng professor of
international politics and economics at Middlebury College and
the author of “ One Nation Under Contract: The Outsourcing of
American Power and the Future of Foreign Policy .” The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Allison Stanger at  stanger@middlebury.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 