-- Billionaire Wants India Mobile Law Change as Putin Visits
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-12-24T08:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/billionaire-wants-india-to-change-wireless-laws-as-putin-visits.html
India  needs more transparent rules
to allow phone operators to merge, said Vladimir Evtushenkov,
whose  AFK Sistema (SSA)  is struggling to recover its wireless licenses
as Russian President Vladimir Putin visits New Delhi.  “The industry can’t be successful with a dozen operators
fighting for a market share, it’s clear that consolidation is
needed,” the Russian billionaire said in an e-mailed response
to questions. India’s government needs more clarity in
regulating the industry, including for mergers and acquisitions,
he said.  India’s Supreme Court canceled 122 permits in February,
prompting Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government to alter
airwave policy, requiring operators to bid at auctions that
collected less than a quarter of the planned $7.3 billion last
month. The original allocation in 2008 had been corrupted by
“money power” and some buyers’ “ability to manipulate the
system,” the high court said.  Sistema unit Sistema Shyam TeleServices Ltd stayed away
from the November auction and may now lose its license as soon
as Jan. 18. Putin’s visit to India for talks with Singh today
may help defend Sistema’s position, according to Alexander Vengranovich, an analyst at Otkritie Capital in Moscow. Sistema
Shyam is 17 percent owned by the Russian government.  Appealing Ruling  Sistema is appealing the court decision and wants its
licenses returned. The Russian company is among operators
including  Norway ’s Telenor ASA, Emirates Telecommunications
Corp., or Etisalat, and Indian billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla’s Idea Cellular Ltd. that lost permits. In the November
auction, companies including Vodafone Group Plc and Bharti
Airtel Ltd. avoided nationwide licenses and concessions in two
of the biggest cities, New Delhi and  Mumbai , because of high
prices.  “Our situation is special,” Evtushenkov said. “In 2008,
Sistema Shyam was the only operator seeking a pan-Indian CDMA
spectrum. India’s controller and auditor general never said that
CDMA frequencies were in such high demand as the GSM ones.”  Sistema’s talks with India are continuing, Evtushenkov told
reporters in New Delhi today.  Sistema is set to buy Aircel Cellular Ltd., a unit of
 Malaysia ’s Maxis Communications Bhd, for $3 billion, to expand
in India, the Economic Times newspaper reported on Sept. 14,
citing unidentified people.  Positioning System  Evtushenkov declined to discuss strategic plans for India
until the decision on the company’s appeal is made. Indian
legislation makes it unclear whether a company that acquires a
license holder will retain the permit, according to Sistema.  Sistema’s shares advanced 0.4 percent to 24.5 rubles at
12:30 p.m. in Moscow.  During Putin’s visit, another Sistema’s unit, NIS, may sign
agreements with Indian fixed-line operator Bharat Sanchar Nigam
Ltd. and an information-technology company  Tata Consultancy
Services Ltd (TCS)  on providing navigation services based on a Russian
global-positioning system with local partners, NIS said.  Russia is trying to challenge U.S. dominance in space-based
navigation systems. The country has spent at least  $3.3 billion 
in the last decade to develop its Glonass system with 24
satellites. It’s an alternative to GPS which was first developed
by the U.S. Department of Defense and then spread to civilian
applications such as mobile phones and transport monitoring.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  