-- Billabong Gives Buyout Group Access to Data After Review
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-12-24T04:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/billabong-gives-buyout-group-access-to-data-after-review.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) ,
 Australia ’s largest surf-wear company, agreed to give a buyout
group including Sycamore Partners LLC access to its financial
data after reviewing their A$527 million ($548 million) offer.  The group, which includes director Paul Naude, will conduct
due diligence on a non-exclusive basis with the process expected
to take as long as six weeks,  Gold Coast , Australia-based
Billabong said in a statement today.  Billabong announced its fourth bid from a buyout firm in a
year on Dec. 19 after Naude, who heads its Americas division,
and Sycamore offered A$1.10 a share for the business. Billabong
cut its profit forecast by as much as 49 percent in the same
statement with Chief Financial Officer  Craig White  departing the
next day.  “There remain significant questions regarding the future
earnings potential of Billabong,” analysts led by Shaun Cousins
at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a Dec. 20 note to clients. “We
believe Sycamore Partners is well positioned to turn around
Billabong.”  The stock  rose  0.6 percent to 83 Australian cents as of the
close of trading in Sydney, paring this year’s decline to 41
percent.  Billabong this year failed to make an annual profit for the
first time since it sold shares in 2000 as it sold stock at a
loss to clear shelf space, paid penalties to break store leases
early, and cut the value of its brands.  ‘No Guarantee’  “The board of Billabong reiterates that there is no
guarantee that, following a period of due diligence by the
consortium, an acceptable binding proposal will be
forthcoming,” the company said in today’s statement.  Weaker-than-expected sales over the past six weeks,
traditionally the busiest period for retailers, as well as
restructuring costs, will push down earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization this year to between A$56
million and A$63 million, the company said Dec. 19.  Billabong, which had previously forecast annual profit of
as much as A$110 million, also said it may have to revalue
assets, a process which could further reduce net income, the
company said.  The surfwear company has missed its target for earnings
more than 10 times since 2007, according to a chart produced by
JPMorgan.  Naude, who’s headed Billabong’s largest division by sales
since 1998, temporarily stepped aside as a director on Nov. 19
to pursue the leveraged buyout. The South African owns about 0.2
percent of Billabong’s stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Surfing Champion  He won his country’s championship board event while working
as a professional surfer in the 1970s, and headed the Laguna
Beach, California-based Gotcha brand’s South African unit in the
1980s before joining Billabong, according to the book,  Greg
Noll: the Art of the Surfboard .  Sycamore’s $369 million bid for Talbots Inc. was accepted
by the Hingham, Massachusetts-based women’s clothing retailer’s
board in June. Sycamore also acquired a 51 percent stake in Mast
Global Fashions, the apparel-sourcing division of Victoria’s
Secret owner  Limited Brands , in November 2011.  Naude’s Dec. 19 offer would price Billabong’s equity and
net debt of A$688 million at about 11.6 times the median of its
latest forecast Ebitda. That compares with a median of 14.8
times Ebitda in 16 takeovers of clothing companies worth more
than $100 million over the last five years.  The offer is less than 14 percent of Billabong’s peak
market capitalization of A$3.8 billion in mid-2007, and little
more than half the A$1.02 billion value that founder Gordon Merchant said in February he’d turn down if TPG International
LLC, which had made a takeover approach, offered it.  TPG, the private equity company controlled by  David
Bonderman , pitched offers to Billabong this year from A$1.45 to
A$3.30 a share before walking away in October without giving
reasons.  An unnamed bidder, which people familiar with the matter
identified as Bain Capital LLC, dropped an offer in September
after carrying out due diligence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  