-- Bollywood Fuels PVR Growth as Sales to Rise 30%
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-12-24T04:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/bollywood-fuels-pvr-growth-as-sales-to-rise-30-.html
PVR Ltd. (PVRL) , an Indian cinema hall
chain that bought a local rival last month, predicts an annual
30 percent jump in sales over the next few years as it expands
in a country that has the world’s most prolific movie industry.  The  company , based in Gurgaon near New Delhi, plans to add
37 screens by March 31 and 50 more in the financial year
starting April 1, Sanjeev Kumar Bijli, joint managing director,
said in an interview. PVR, which also distributes films and owns
bowling alleys, will focus on its movie exhibition business as
the  acquisition  of Cinemax  India  Ltd. will catapult the theater
operator to the nation’s No. 1 spot, he said.  Bijli is counting on higher ticket and food and beverage
sales at his chain to outperform the industry’s  pace of growth 
in revenue as the entertainment business bucks a slowdown in
 Asia ’s third-biggest economy. India’s movie exhibition business
is forecast to rise 57 percent to 108 billion rupees ($1.96
billion) by 2016 from last year, expanding at an annual pace of
9.4 percent, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and
Industry and  KPMG  said in a  report  this year.  “India is a very large country, there are loads of places
where you don’t have good quality cinemas,” Bijli said in New
Delhi on Dec. 19. “Going to movies is a very strong
entertainment option for everyone in India, so we’re looking at
the entire country” to expand, he said.  Denting Profit  Shares of PVR have more than doubled this year, compared
with a 25 percent gain in the benchmark BSE India  Sensitive
Index. (SENSEX)  PVR fell 2 percent to 285.60 rupees in Mumbai as of 10:09
a.m., while Cinemax declined 0.2 percent to 192.15 rupees.  The expansion may come at the cost of PVR’s profit while
growth in sales may take some time, said Archana Shivane, an
analyst at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.  PVR said on Nov. 29 that its wholly owned subsidiary Cine
Hospitality Ltd. will spend 3.95 billion rupees to acquire 69.27
percent of  Cinemax (CINL)  from its founders in a deal funded by fresh
issue of shares and loans. An open offer will be made next month
to the public shareholders of Cinemax to buy as much as 26
percent additional stake for 1.48 billion rupees, according to a
stock exchange filing.  “We are expecting growth in topline, but surely it will
take some time,” said Shivane. “But the debt will come before
that; interest costs will rise. The extra premium given to
Cinemax’s founders will dent their net profit margins.”  Strong Earnings  The purchase is being funded by PVR through preferential
issue of 10.63 million shares at 245 rupees apiece to its
founders, existing shareholder L Capital Asia LLC and a new
investor Multiples Alternate Asset Management. The remaining
funds will be raised by borrowing from banks, Bijli said. L
Capital is a private equity fund sponsored by luxury-goods
company LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA.  Profitability of Cinemax gives Bijli the confidence that
PVR will be able to service borrowings made for the acquisition.  “It has reported a very strong earnings before interest,
depreciation, tax and amortization in the first two quarters so
that sustainability of the business will ensure we are able to
repay the debt as soon as we can,” said Bijli. “There is a lot
of confidence by both the private equity and the lending banks
that this is a good acquisition.”  PVR has 213 screens with a seating capacity of 50,655 and
Cinemax has 138 screens with a capacity of 33,535 seats, it said
last month. The acquisition will increase PVR’s presence to 85
locations in 35 cities, including Mumbai, home to Bollywood. The
company plans to open halls in 25 new cities in the next three
years.  Industry Recovery  Net income  at PVR, inclusive of units, tripled to 254.11
million rupees in the year ended March 31 and sales increased 11
percent to 5.09 billion rupees. Cinemax, which listed in
October, posted profit of 158.1 million rupees on sales of 1.16
billion rupees in the three months ended Sept. 30, according to
a stock exchange filing.  Cinemax may post sales of 5 billion rupees in the year
ending March 31, while PVR is expected to increase revenue to 7
billion rupees, Bijli said.  Movie exhibitors are expected to benefit from the recovery
of the Indian  film industry  last year from a two-year slowdown.
A rise in average ticket prices because of growing multiplex
culture, increasing content that attracts audience, “star-
power” and digitization that has facilitated countrywide
release of movies has helped in the turnaround, according to the
Ficci-KPMG report.  ‘Muted’ Outlook  Domestic movie exhibition accounted for 74 percent of the
92.9 billion rupees of revenue generated by the Indian movie
industry in 2011, Ficci-KPMG estimated. Revenue generation
includes from overseas exhibition, home videos, cable rights.
Despite the “muted” outlook for the economy, projections of
private consumption remain strong and are a positive sign for
the entertainment industry, Ficci-KPMG said in the report.  As many as 1,255 feature films were produced in India in
2011, according to a report by the  Central Board of Film
Certification . That included 206 by the Hindi-language  movie
industry  better known as Bollywood, five of which grossed more
than 1 billion rupees at the box office.  PVR plans to expand into smaller towns such as Pathankot,
in northern state of Punjab, and Panipat, in northern state of
Haryana as rising incomes prompt people in cities and smaller
towns to demand a better experience in Western style halls
selling popcorn, coffee and cola drinks.  ‘Value for Money’  Slowing economic growth this year won’t hurt ticket sales
at his halls as a movie is less expensive than a holiday or a
dinner with the family at a restaurant, Bijli said.  India’s  economy  is set to expand as little as 5.7 percent
in the financial year ending March 31, the least in a decade,
after an average growth of 7.75 percent in the previous 10 years
that lifted incomes.  India’s consumer spending is likely to almost quadruple by
2020 to $3.6 trillion, the  Boston Consulting Group  said in a
February report. The expenditure is set to climb from $991
billion in 2010, according to the report. Sale of food and
beverages at PVR’s chain increased 44 percent to 928.5 million
rupees in the year ended March 31, according to the company’s
 annual report .  “People actually feel they are getting value for money for
three hours,” said Bijli. “Getting to escape from whatever
issues and problems they are facing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at   acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  