-- China Reiterates Opposition to U.S. Defense Bill Provisions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-23T08:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/china-reiterates-opposition-to-u-s-defense-bill-provisions-1-.html
China  reiterated its opposition to
provisions in a U.S. defense bill that allow sales of F-16
fighter aircraft to Taiwan and acknowledge  Japan ’s
administration of disputed islands in the  East China Sea .  Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said China is
“seriously concerned” about the legislation that was approved
by the  U.S. Senate  on Dec. 21 and urged America to promote the
“stable development” of relations with China. Her comments
were in a statement on the central government’s website today.  The bill, which authorizes Defense Department programs and
spending for the fiscal year 2013 that started Oct. 1, was
approved by the House on Dec. 20 and will now pass to President
 Barack Obama  to sign into law.  The two amendments related to China will harm relations
between the world’s two biggest economies, the state-run Xinhua
News Agency said in a Dec. 20 commentary. The Obama
administration should reject the provisions to help foster a new
type of relationship based on mutual respect and benefit, the
English-language commentary said.  The section relating to the disputed islands, known as
Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan, constitutes “a gross
violation of China’s sovereign rights,” Xinhua said. The
amendment calling for the sale of advanced fighter jets to
Taiwan is a “blunt interference in China’s internal affairs”
and breaks previous pledges made by the U.S. to phase out arms
sales to the island, it said.  The U.S. legislation calls for $640.7 billion for the
Pentagon and related defense programs at agencies such as the
Energy Department for the year. It would also impose new and
expanded sanctions on  Iran ’s energy, shipping and financial
services sectors.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  