-- Yen Weakens to 20-Month Low on Abe BOJ Pledge; Euro Drops
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-12-24T22:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/dollar-remains-higher-against-euro-amid-u-s-fiscal-cliff.html
The yen fell to a 20-month low
versus the dollar after Japan’s incoming Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe said he will consider changing the law governing the central
bank unless it boosts its inflation target.  The 17-nation euro erased gains against the greenback as
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said he would consider being
the candidate for a coalition backing his economic agenda, even
after saying he won’t run in the country’s February elections.
 Mexico ’s peso is the biggest winner against the dollar this
year, while the Brazilian real has lost the most.  “The currency’s drop has been due to the pressure exerted
by Shinzo Abe on the BOJ to increase their monetary activism,”
said Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in  Washington  at Western
Union Business Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU) 
“Increases in quantitative easing or  interest rate  reducing
programs generally weaken a nation’s currency via the carry
trade.”  The yen fell 0.8 percent to 84.94 per dollar at 5 p.m. New
York time. It was the weakest level since April 11, 2011. The
euro gained 0.8 percent to 111.97 yen. The shared currency was
little changed at $1.3185, after gaining as much as 0.4 percent.  Japan ’s currency has tumbled 12.9 percent this year,
including a 3.8 percent drop in the past month, the worst
performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has weakened
2.7 percent this year and the euro has dropped 0.9 percent.  Rand Leads  The South African rand leads all major currencies this
month against the greenback, appreciating 4 percent. The yen has
declined the most out of 16 counterparts versus the dollar,
decreasing 2.9 percent.  South Korea ’s won has appreciated more than all of its
peers versus the dollar this quarter, adding 3.5 percent. The
Swiss franc has been the second-biggest gainer, increasing 2.6
percent.  The real has lost 10.3 percent versus the dollar in 2012.
Mexico’s peso leads all 16 of the dollar’s biggest peers with a
gain of 7.4 percent.  Japan’s Abe said he will consider revising the central-bank
law if policy makers fail to increase the inflation target to 2
percent from 1 percent at their January meeting, he said on Fuji
Television yesterday.  Technical Levels  The yen may fall to its lowest level since May 2010 after
closing last week above 84.20, its March high. The currency will
test resistance at 94.13, the 38 percent Fibonacci retracement
of the yen’s appreciation from June 2007 to October 2011,
 Richard Adcock , head of fixed-income technical strategy at UBS
in  London , wrote today in a note to clients.  The currency weakened against the dollar even after data
showed that futures traders trimmed bets on a weak yen from a
five-year high.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the yen compared with
those on a gain was 89,163 on Dec. 18, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.
The so-called  net shorts  were at 94,401 a week earlier, the most
since July 2007.  “Abe saying he will rewrite the legislation for the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  if it doesn’t impose its own higher inflation target
has definitely been a reason for yen underperformance,”  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  in New York, said in a telephone interview. “We’re
finally seeing how exactly he’s going to implement one of his
key election platforms, which is a much more dovish BOJ.”  Extreme Moves  Declines in the yen may temper as the 14-day relative
strength index against the dollar touched 21.7, below the 30
level for the ninth day. A reading of 30 or lower indicates an
asset may have fallen too far too quickly.  U.S. political leaders are debating how to avoid the so-
called fiscal cliff, the more than $600 billion in automatic tax
increases and spending cuts that will take effect in January
unless Congress acts.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares fell 0.2
percent today. The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange
Inc. uses to track the greenback against the currencies of six
U.S. trading partners, was little changed at 79.67, following a
0.5 percent advance on Dec. 21.  “The Senate will produce some sort of a compromise stop-
gap measure that will not be filibustered by the GOP and will
then move on to passage in the House,” said Boris Schlossberg,
managing director of foreign exchange at BK Asset Management, an
investment advisory firm in New York. “The end of the week,
therefore, sets up a possible volatility event for the market.”  Won Forecasts  Strategists are raising won forecasts at a faster pace than
any other currency on bets South Korea’s new president will
tolerate appreciation driven by capital inflows and an economic
recovery.  Analysts have bolstered their median predictions for the
end of 2013 by 3.3 percent since Sept. 30, the most among 65
global currency pairs tracked by Bloomberg. The won, which has
advanced 7.3 percent versus the dollar this year, will
strengthen an additional 2.9 percent in 12 months to its highest
level since August 2008, a Bloomberg survey shows.  Park Geun Hye, who takes office in February after winning
election on Dec. 19, has called for curbing the dominance of
conglomerates such as Samsung Electronics Co. and Hyundai Motor
Co. The won was little changed at 1,074.15 per dollar today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  