-- Domestic Funds Sell as Foreigners Buy India: Chart of the Day
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-12-23T18:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/domestic-funds-sell-as-foreigners-buy-india-chart-of-the-day.html
Indian money managers are selling
stocks to meet the longest stretch of withdrawals from equity
funds in at least two years even as the domestic market was
 Asia ’s biggest destination for overseas money.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that Indian mutual funds have
been net sellers of stocks for five straight months even as
foreign funds have been net buyers for six consecutive months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lower panel shows
that redemptions by mutual fund investors since June have led to
sales by domestic funds, with foreign investors being ready
buyers. That’s helped boost the BSE India Sensitive Index 25
percent this year. The vast majority of the gain has come since
June. The Sensex in 2011 tumbled 25 percent.  The steady increase in the past six months “is giving
mutual-fund investors a chance to exit,” Dhirendra Kumar, chief
executive officer at Value Research India Pvt., which has been
tracking funds for more than two decades, said in a phone
interview last week from  New Delhi . “Indian funds are a slave
of investor action, and the redemption pressure is showing.”  The Sensex has rallied the most among the so-called BRIC
nations this year as government policies to open the economy to
foreigners accelerated inflows. Overseas funds have plowed $23
billion into local equities this year, the highest among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration, striving to
avert a credit-rating downgrade and revive economic growth,
ended two years of policy paralysis in September by opening the
retail industry to overseas companies such as Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. and cutting fuel subsidies. A panel was also established
recently to hasten infrastructure projects, which then approved
changes to a century-old land law to help curb protests that
often sparked delays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  