-- Economy Weighs on Shoppers in Final Holiday Dash to Mall
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-12-24T19:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/economy-weighs-on-shoppers-in-final-holiday-weekend-dash-to-mall.html
Holiday shoppers descended on U.S.
malls this weekend in a last-minute dash to buy gifts amid
concerns about the nation’s economy and the impasse in
 Washington  over taxes and spending.  Shopping yesterday for clothes and Lego toys for her 2- and
4-year-old children at a mall in Burlington,  Massachusetts ,
Marjorie Decker, 40, said her family is spending less compared
with last year.  “It’s an unpredictable economy,” said Decker, who will be
sworn in next month as a member of the state legislature.
“We’re more mindful of what they do and don’t need.”  Americans have become warier as Washington approaches the
end of the year without an agreement to forestall higher taxes
and automatic spending cuts -- the so-called fiscal cliff. Last
month, retailers from  Macy’s Inc. (M)  to  Target Corp. (TGT)  posted same-
store sales that trailed analysts’ estimates.  Consumer confidence  fell in December to a five-month low,
according to a Dec. 21 report. The Thomson Reuters/University of
 Michigan  consumer sentiment index slid to 72.9, the weakest
since July, from 82.7 in November.  In another sign that consumers are pulling back, U.S.
online sales increased 8.4 percent this holiday season, compared
with last year’s almost 16 percent gain, MasterCard Advisors
SpendingPulse said.  Sales grew to $48 billion from Oct. 28 through Dec. 22, the
Purchase, New York-based research firm said yesterday. The
figures come from the 60,000 Web retailers it tracks.  Sandy Impact  Besides the fiscal concerns, widespread power outages from
Sandy, the hurricane that devastated the East Coast in October,
also hurt holiday shopping on the Internet, said  Michael
McNamara , a vice president at SpendingPulse.  “When you look at the fiscal-cliff media coverage as well
as the decline in  consumer confidence  and the slowdown in e-
commerce, all those basically happened at the same time,”
McNamara said in a telephone interview.  In a separate report, Comscore said yesterday that e-
commerce sales jumped 16 percent to $38.7 billion between Nov. 1
and Dec. 21. The Reston, Virginia-based digital research firm
reported a 15 percent gain last year. It excludes auctions and
large corporate purchases.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index (S5RETL)  rose 0.1 percent
to 654.07 at the close of trading in  New York , compared with a
0.2 percent decline for the broader  S&P 500 . The 33-company
retail index has jumped 25 percent this year.  Weekend Promotions  Over the weekend, brick-and-mortar retailers may have
benefited as promotions, extended hours and dwindling delivery
times for late Web sales drew last-minute shoppers to stores.  “Super Saturday,” the industry’s term for the last
Saturday before Christmas, may have rivaled the day after
Thanksgiving, called Black Friday in the U.S., for the busiest
shopping day of the year, McNamara said. Black Friday recorded
total sales of $18.9 billion, he said.  An indication of how the weekend and the two-month holiday
season fared will come on Dec. 25, when SpendingPulse plans to
release its sales figures through Dec. 24. It tracks total U.S.
retail sales via all payment forms.  The  National Retail Federation  has said holiday sales will
rise 4.1 percent to about $586.1 billion this year, compared
with a 5.6 percent gain in 2011. Sales for November and December
account for 20 percent to 40 percent of U.S. retailers’ annual
revenue, according to the Washington-based trade group. Last
year’s fourth quarter generated 59 percent of Cincinnati-based
Macy’s 2011 profit.  ShopperTrak, a Chicago-based researcher of store traffic,
on Dec. 19 trimmed its forecast for November-December holiday
sales to a gain of 2.5 percent from a prior estimate of 3.3
percent. The store closings after  Hurricane Sandy  and heavy
discounting were crimping sales volumes, it said.  Comparable Sales  Sales at retailers’ stores open at least a year may climb 3
percent in November and December, slower than the 3.3 percent
gain last year, the  International Council of Shopping Centers 
reiterated on Dec. 18, in a forecast for the more than 25 chains
it tracks. The ICSC is predicting retailers will report a 4
percent to 4.5 percent comparable sales increase for December
when they issue their latest monthly reports on Jan. 3.  Stores at the Twelve Oaks Mall in Novi, Michigan, were
seeing small sales increases overall as larger transactions were
compensating for a drop in store visitors, Karen MacDonald, a
spokeswoman for the mall’s operator  Taubman Centers Inc. (TCO) , said
in an e-mail yesterday. At the  Stamford  Town Center in
 Connecticut , stores were reporting that sales were “flat to up
single digits” in percentage terms for the week, she said.  ‘More Optimistic’  The last weekend of shopping wasn’t all doom and gloom.  Feeling “more optimistic” was Wayne Young, a real estate
agent in Greensboro,  North Carolina , who said Dec. 22 he was
planning to spend as much as $1,500 on gifts, three times as
much as last year, after he benefited from the housing rebound
and closed on the sale of four houses in the past month.  Janessa Mendes, 22, a sales associate from Bronx, New York,
who was shopping at the Bronx Terminal Market shopping center,
said she was digging deeper into her wallet this year because
family members wanted consumer electronics, and her purchases
included an  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPod and an iPhone cover.  “Everybody wants more expensive gifts,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  