-- Tendulkar Retires From One-Day Cricket After Record Career
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-12-23T19:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/tendulkar-retires-from-one-day-cricket-after-record-career.html
India ’s Sachin Tendulkar, the
highest-scoring batsman in international cricket history, said
he’s retiring from one-day games. His record-setting 23-year
career is set to continue in elite Test matches.  “I have decided to retire from the one-day format of the
game,” Tendulkar said in an e-mailed statement issued by the
Board of Control for Cricket in India yesterday. “I feel
blessed to have fulfilled the dream of being part of a World
Cup-winning Indian team.”  Nicknamed “Little Master,” the 5-foot-5 Tendulkar holds
almost all of cricket’s major batting records, including the
most runs and centuries in Test and one-day international
matches.  With a batting style founded on balance, precision and
anticipation, and his mastery of an array of strokes, the 39-
year-old Tendulkar was able to score runs in all conditions and
in any country.  He made his test debut at age 16 against  Pakistan  in
November 1989, with his first one-day international against the
same opponent the following month.  He finishes his one-day career for India with an  average of
44.83  from 463 matches, including a record 49 centuries. His
total of 18,426 runs in the 50-over format is almost 5,000 more
than Australia’s  Ricky Ponting , who is second on the all-time
list.  Double Century  Two decades after his debut, the right-hander became the
first player to score a double century in one-day international
matches and in 2011 he helped India win its first Cricket  World
Cup  since 1983 by scoring a team-high 482 runs.  “I would like to wish the team all the very best for the
future,” Tendulkar said in his statement. “I am eternally
grateful to all my well-wishers for their unconditional support
and love over the years.”  Tendulkar, an idol in his native India, was again feted in
March when he scored an unprecedented 100th international
hundred against  Bangladesh . That remains his last century as he
struggled for runs in 2012.  That total includes 51 hundreds in Test matches, a format
in which he may add to his record 194 appearances. He played
only one Twenty20 game for India.  -- With assistance from  James Cone  in  London . Editor: Paul
Tighe, Peter-Joseph Hegarty  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  