-- Israeli Television Star Seeks to Woo Political Center
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-12-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/israeli-television-star-seeks-to-woo-political-center.html
In a meeting room at the  Hebrew
University of Jerusalem , Yair Lapid is trying to convince
several hundred students to vote for his Yesh Atid party in
 Israel ’s general election on Jan. 22  “I have bad news for you -- none of you will be getting
apartments,” the 49-year-old Lapid says, striking a sore point
in a country where housing has become a hot-button issue after
prices rose about 20 percent since 2010. “None of you will get
an apartment unless you have a rich uncle who passed away during
the last few weeks.”  While he’s new to politics, Lapid’s bodybuilder’s physique
clad in trademark black jacket-and t-shirt, and his carefully
coiffed salt-and-pepper hair, are already familiar sights after
more than a decade spent hosting a talk-show and current affairs
program on television’s Channel Two. He’s now trying to use that
celebrity for Yesh Atid by appealing primarily to middle-class
voters with centrist views, a constituency once courted by his
late father Tommy Lapid’s Shinui party.  A poll in the Maariv daily on Dec. 14 had the party gaining
eight seats in Israel’s 120-member parliament, well behind the
38-seat estimate for front-runner Likud-Beitenu, Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu ’s joint list with former Foreign Minister
Avigdor Liberman. Yesh Atid may still play an important role in
forming the next government, with analysts seeing Lapid as a
more likely coalition partner for Netanyahu than such other
center-left party leaders as Labor’s Shelly Yachimovich or
Hatnuah’s Tzipi Livni.  ‘Likely Candidate’  “Yachimovich and Livni probably have too many members in
their parties opposed to joining a Netanyahu-led government,”
says Avraham Diskin, professor of political science at the
Hebrew University of Jerusalem. “Netanyahu will want at least
one center-left faction in his coalition to reduce the pressures
he’ll face from the far-Right Jewish Home party and the
religious parties Shas and United Torah Judaism, and Lapid’s
party is the most likely candidate.”  While Lapid tells his Hebrew University audience that this
month’s government decisions to build more homes in east
 Jerusalem  on land claimed by Palestinians is flawed, he focuses
more on the timing than the substance. The entire city must
remain under Israeli sovereignty in any final peace agreement he
says, despite the Palestinian insistence that east Jerusalem
should be the capital of their state.  Domestic Policies  Yesh Atid’s platform focuses on domestic issues, advocating
governmental and educational reforms, housing grants for young
couples, increased assistance for small businesses and steps to
enlarge the military enlistment of ultra-Orthodox Jews who
currently receive draft exemptions.  Lapid’s emphasis on the ultra-Orthodox touches on the issue
that brought political success to his late father. Tommy Lapid,
who died in 2008, was also a journalist and broadcaster, whose
now-defunct Shinui won 15 seats in the 2003 election. Before
imploding amid internal conflicts, Shinui supported the
government of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in reducing child
allowances for large ultra-Orthodox families, and its evacuation
of Jewish settlements from the  Gaza Strip .  Yesh Atid is trying to fill the centrist gap left by
Shinui’s absence, with a parliamentary list that, except for
Herzlyia mayor Yael German and Dimona mayor Meir Cohen, is drawn
largely from outside the political sphere. Candidates include
Jacob Perry, former head of the Israeli security service, Shin
Bet, and ex-chief executive officer of  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) ,
Mickey Levy, the former Jerusalem police chief, and journalist
Ofer Shelach.  Newspaper Attacks  Lapid has to overcome criticism from newspapers that he’s a
celebrity entering politics largely as an attempt to mimic his
father’s past. The  Haaretz  daily dubbed him the “prom king
politician,” a “former teenage heart-throb with daddy issues”
and “the ultimate personification of a political sphere
obsessed with stardom.”  Lapid represents “a lack of ideological compass, a
blurring of ethical boundaries and populism as a worldview,”
said Zehava Gal-On, leader of the leftist Meretz faction.  Lapid touts his lack of political experience as a plus,
comparing himself to  Barack Obama  as a candidate facing initial
doubts on his qualifications for the national stage. “If I was
just looking for a platform, all I can say is I gave up a more
comfortable platform; if I just was looking for a salary, I gave
up a bigger salary,” he tells the students.  That pitch convinced Liat Helbetz, 23, who distributed Yesh
Atid pamphlets after Lapid’s presentations. “He’s someone
willing to fight for equality in Israel, so I’m not the only one
doing army service, and I will have a chance to buy an
apartment. It’s a plus that he’s new, because other politicians
have talked about these issues without doing anything.”  Less convinced is Amitai Young, 26, a student of
international relations. “Lapid tries to stay in the middle and
doesn’t get into the real areas of disagreement in Israeli
society, such as how to reach an agreement with the
Palestinians. I came today to listen to him because I was
undecided -- and I still am.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  