-- Israel’s ‘Holy Grail’ Trail Offers Gospel for Christmas
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-12-25T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/israel-holy-grail-trail-offers-gospel-for-christmas.html
Israel ’s National Trail gains extra
significance this Christmas.  The walk has been named one of the world’s epic treks. It
follows part of the Gospel Trail, for those who want to walk in
the footsteps of Jesus, and adds ancient battlefields and
deserts, skirting Tel Aviv skyscrapers. It’s more than twice the
length of the entire country, and the magic isn’t just in the
geography.  “It’s not all pristine wilderness experience,” said Allan
Rabinowitz, a Jerusalem-based tour guide who hiked the trail in
2009 with his wife and teenage son to fulfill a dream and raise
nearly $40,000 for research into Lou Gehrig’s disease, which
killed his mother. “Some parts are pretty ugly.”  “What impressed us most deeply was the human landscape,”
he said, “the way we were treated by the people who we met and
those who reached out because of the campaign.”  The path stretches nearly 1,000 kilometers (621 miles) from
the Lebanese border in the north to the  Red Sea  in the south,
crossing a variety of physical, ethnic and religious landscapes.
Fit hikers, proceeding at a pace of about 20 miles a day with no
days off, may be able to complete the entire trail in about 30
days. It took 60-year-old Rabinowitz and his family 74 days.  About 10 kilometers of the trail overlap with the 62-
kilometer Gospel Trail that traces the path Jesus may have taken
when he left his home of Nazareth for Capernaum, on the shores
of the Sea of Galilee.  Nazareth Christmas  There is usually a rise in the amount of visitors during
Christmas in Nazareth, which is the starting point of the Gospel
Trail, which opened in Nov. 2011.  Special markers along the segment provide relevant biblical
quotes that link the landscape to Jesus.  “Tourists and pilgrims walking the Israel Trail near
Christmas will find added significance in the section that meets
up with the Gospel Trail,” said Noaz Bar Nir, director general
of the Israeli Tourism Ministry.  Parts of the trail, especially near  Jerusalem  and in the
Negev desert, are steep and rugged. In the mountains near the
resort city of Eilat, the only way forward sometimes involves
climbing metal ladder rungs driven into the face of sheer rock
walls.  Other sections along the coastal plain run straight and
flat along the seashore, heading over an overpass and weaving
around a highway.  Cultural Differences  “It is ironic to see trail markers on concrete poles,”
said Rabinowitz. “It’s not exactly the Appalachian Trail, but
it covers the tremendous stark differences of Israel both
culturally and geographically.”  The trail, which is marked out in a set of 16 maps,
recently was named to National Geographic’s top 20 epic trails,
or what the site called “the holy grail of trails.”  The international  designation  of the 20-year-old trail
should boost the image of a land known for the bloodshed of its
past and the threat of violence in its present and future. The
trail will boost economic growth with the development of
supplementary services, Tourism Minister Stas Misezhnikov said.  Hiking along the trail forms a special bond with the
country, said Misezhnikov, who first walked along the paths for
the bar mitzvah of the son of a friend.  “You see wonderful people live here, you feel their
warmth, stay at their homes, you see what they are making with
their own hands and you fall in love with this country,” the
minister said.  Trail Angels  Rabinowitz also singled out the voluntary system of “trail
angels” who put their names on a website and open their homes
for showers and meals to hikers. He and his family had coffee
with a Bedouin family, camped out with Harley Davidson
motorcycle gangs, and celebrated a holiday on a kibbutz.  “When you reach the valley of your spirits, then something
pops up, something very surprising, and that happened very
often,” said Rabinowitz.  Hiking, camping and spending time in nature is part of
Israel’s culture, reinforced by scout groups that many Israeli
children participate in through their high school years.  “From a very young age, children are taught tradition and
love of the land of Israel through their feet,” Dov Greenblatt,
spokesman for the  Society for the Protection of Nature , said.  The trail’s hikers have included  David Grossman , who
started it to mark his 50th birthday and used his experience as
material for the novel “To the End of the Land.”  Missile Death  His pilgrimage also coincided with the drafting of his
middle son. The book tells the story of a woman so concerned
about the welfare of her own son that she takes to the trail to
help calm her anxiety. Before Grossman finished the book, his
own son, Uri, was killed in 2006 by a missile fired by Hezbollah
in the second Lebanon War.  “Life on the trail is calm and far from current
hostilities,” wrote National Geographic’s Doug Schnitzspahn in
his report on  Israel  for the magazine’s epic trail section.  In part, that may be because the network doesn’t enter
disputed areas such as the  Golan Heights  or the  West Bank ,
territories Israel captured in the 1967 Middle East war.  “The joy of the trail is meeting the Israelis hiking it
and spending some time in small kibbutzim where the local people
will take hikers into their homes. On the trail, there is peace
and friendship,” Schnitzspahn said.  The  Israel National Trail  would never have been marked were
it not for the enthusiasm of a journalist who hiked the
Appalachian Trail, another National Geographic epic, in 1980.
The network opened 15 years later, patched together from
thousands of kilometers of pre-existing trails.  “We are a very small country, maybe the size of a
neighborhood in  China ,” Greenblatt said. “But I don’t know of
many countries with such diversity. Within only a few hours’
drive, one goes the open spaces of the Golan to the green of the
Galilee, to the coastal plain and then on to the Negev desert,
the Arava and Eilat.”  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on
film,  James Russell  on architecture and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 