-- Kenya Coalition Nominates Kenyatta for President
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-12-23T14:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/kenya-coalition-nominates-kenyatta-for-president.html
Kenyan Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta, 51, fended off a challenge from compromise candidate
and fellow vice premier Musalia Mudavadi to become the
presidential nominee for the Jubilee Coalition.  Mudavadi withdrew from the grouping announced Dec. 4 to
take part in elections scheduled for March 4, he said Dec. 21.  “Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta has been nominated as flag bearer
and presidential candidate,” Francis Ole Kaparo, chairman of
the United Republican Party told reporters today in Nairobi, the
capital.  Kenyatta the son of  Kenya ’s first president, Jomo Kenyatta,
is campaigning for the presidency even as he prepares to face
charges at the  International Criminal Court  for his role in the
ethnic violence at the last elections in 2007. The clashes left
more than 1,100 people dead and forced 350,000 to flee their
homes.  The Jubilee coalition, which brings together four political
parties, includes lawmaker  William Ruto  who, like Kenyatta, has
been charged by the ICC with crimes against humanity. Both men
deny the charges. Ruto, 46, was nominated as Kenyatta’s running
mate.  The Coalition for Reform and Democracy, which includes the
political parties of Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , Vice President
Kalonzo Musyoka, Trade Minister Moses Wetangula and at least 12
others, yesterday named Odinga, 67, as its presidential
candidate.  About 47 percent of respondents in a survey by  marketing
company , Ipsos-Synovate released Dec. 14 indicated they would
vote the Odinga-led coalition, while 41 percent said they prefer
the Jubilee Coalition.  About 22 percent of voter-age Kenyans haven’t decided which
presidential candidate to support, up from 12 percent in
November, said Tom Wolf, a consultant with Ipsos-Synovate. Voter
preferences may begin stabilizing by February, when parties
submit their final list of candidates to the Independent
Electoral and Boundaries Commission, Wolf said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  