-- To Stop Future Mass Killers, Treat Mentally Ill Children
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-23T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/to-stop-future-mass-killers-treat-mentally-ill-children.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  was
right when  he said  after the Newtown,  Connecticut , massacre that
America had not done enough to keep its children safe. He closed
his comments by reading the names of the 20 first-graders killed
in the slaughter.  Newtown’s story turns up one more child who may have been,
in one way, failed by America: The isolated, awkward boy who
would become the 20-year-old killer, Adam Lanza. What,
precisely, afflicted Lanza is not yet known. His brutal final
act, however, suggests he had a mental disorder.  Lanza would hardly be the first troubled young person who,
in the absence of a support system beyond, perhaps, an
overwhelmed parent, became horrifically violent. To try to
prevent the emergence of more young mass killers, the U.S. needs
to not only  reform  its gun laws but also improve its mental-
health-care system, especially for children.  The statistics are appalling. An estimated  22 percent  of
children in the U.S. ages 13 to 18 suffer from mental illness
severe enough to impair their daily functioning or produce
serious distress. Yet only  20 percent  of mentally ill children
receive treatment.  With the  delay  between the onset of symptoms and
intervention averaging eight to 10 years, treatment may come too
late to make a difference or never, with sometimes disastrous
consequences for the individual, the family and, in the worst
cases, the community.  Whittled Down  The public system for dealing with mental health, never
adequate to start with, has been whittled down further during
the economic slowdown. From 2009 to 2012, $4.3 billion was
stripped from spending nationwide, resulting in  reduced  services
and providers and 4,000 fewer psychiatric hospital beds. Access
to care is better for patients who have private insurance
coverage for mental illness, but they are a minority.  In theory, two important pieces of legislation will improve
the situation. The  2008 Mental Health Parity and Addiction
Equity Act  requires group health-insurance plans that cover
mental illness to provide those benefits  as liberally as other
benefits . Government officials are still working with industry
and patient representatives to finalize regulations enabling
states to enforce the act. Those talks should be accelerated and
the rules promulgated as quickly as possible.  Access to care will also expand under the  Affordable Care
Act , which requires the inclusion of mental health coverage in
insurance plans to be offered by state exchanges by 2014. The
parity act will apply to these plans, too.  Still, increasing insurance coverage doesn’t guarantee
mentally ill children will get the care they need. Other
barriers must also be addressed. One is a shortage of manpower.
Fifty-five percent of U.S. counties have no practicing
psychiatrists, psychologists or social workers.  The shortfall is especially acute among child and
adolescent psychiatrists. With only  7,000  such specialists
practicing in the U.S., getting an appointment with one can take
months in urban areas and can entail hours of traveling for
people in  smaller communities .  Pediatric psychiatry requires two years of training beyond
the requirements for general psychiatrists. To encourage taking
on that extra burden, the Affordable Care Act authorized a $20
million program to repay  student loans  if doctors work for at
least two years in an underserved area. Funding for the program,
however, was excluded from the House and Senate appropriations
bills.  This is a minimal investment, given that mental disorders
in the young lead to behavior such as substance abuse, crime and
dropping out of school that costs the country an estimated  $247
billion  annually, according to the  Institute of Medicine .  Even if mental-health professionals are available, parents
often don’t understand their children need this kind of help.
The  American Academy  of Pediatrics in 2010 called for
pediatricians to screen all patients for mental illness, just as
they regularly test for vision and hearing deficiencies.  Yet very few doctors follow this guidance, either because
it would lengthen office visits or, given the stigma attached to
psychological disorders, because it might offend parents.  The U.S. can’t afford to continue treating mental illness
as a source of shame best avoided. Pediatricians and school
counselors must discuss the topic openly with parents. Neighbors
and friends of an unwell child should offer comfort rather than
judgment, just as they would for someone with asthma or
diabetes.  In such a world, far more children would have a chance to
grow into their best selves.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 