-- Obama Attends Memorial Service for Senator Daniel Inouye
-- B y   J o d i   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-12-23T21:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/obama-attends-memorial-service-for-senator-daniel-inouye.html
President  Barack Obama  joined
lawmakers from Congress and Hawaii at a memorial service in
Honolulu to pay tribute to U.S. Senator Daniel Inouye, who died
Dec. 17 of respiratory complications.  Obama, who was born in Hawaii and is visiting the state on
vacation with his family, was accompanied by First Lady Michelle Obama.  Inouye, a Democrat and the most senior U.S. senator, was a
World War II hero who represented Hawaii since statehood in
1959. He was 88.  As the 19-gun salute sounded, rows of World War II veterans
attending the ceremony were visibly moved.  Also attending the service at the National Memorial
Cemetery of the Pacific were Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid,
a Nevada Democrat, Senator Daniel Akaka, a Democrat from Hawaii
who is retiring, and Admiral Samuel J. Locklear III, commander
of the U.S. Pacific Command.  Obama spoke about Inouye during a memorial service at the
 Washington  National Cathedral on Dec. 21, saying the Hawaii
senator had been one of his “earliest political inspirations.”
The president said the late senator had served the country with
“fundamental integrity.”  Speaking at the service in Hawaii, Locklear said Inouye
“was in every way a giant. We have lost an irreplaceable
American.”  Reid said he had met with Inouye eight days before his
death, just before he entered the hospital. “We talked as
though there were many tomorrows,” he said. “He was really a
legislative hero, to that I can testify.”  ‘Hawaiian Hero’  “He was a Hawaiian hero, a champion of this state,” he
said, adding that Inouye brought “billions” of dollars home to
Hawaii. “It should come as no surprise that Danny died as he
lived, with dignity.”  He recalled that former Senator Robert Dole, a Republican
from  Kansas , asked if Reid would accompany him to pay respects
to Inouye, his friend of 60 years, at the memorial in
Washington. He accompanied Dole to the rotunda where Inouye was
lying in state. Dole, 89, who now uses a wheelchair, insisted on
walking up to the casket and saluted Inouye.  Dole and Inouye first met at an army hospital in  Michigan 
while both were recovering from wounds suffered during WWII.  Inouye, an American of Japanese ancestry who lost his right
arm fighting for his country, was president pro tem of the
Senate. The largely ceremonial title is given to the most senior
member of the majority party.  He was the second longest-serving U.S. lawmaker in history
after the late Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia, who served
51 1-2 years in Congress.  At the  Hawaii  memorial, Akaka said Inouye made it possible
for him and later, Obama, to rise to the highest levels of
office. “He demolished,” the ceiling, he said. “Dan Inouye is
Hawaii and Hawaii is Dan Inouye.”  After the service, Obama visited the grave of his
grandfather, Stanley Dunham.  For Related News and Information:
Obituaries for members of Congress: TNI CNG OBIT GO  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jodi Schneider in Honolulu at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 Skomarow1@bloomberg.net  