-- Home Sales, Values Probably Increased: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-12-23T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/home-sales-values-probably-increased-u-s-economy-preview.html
Purchases of new houses probably
rose to the highest level in more than two years and the value
of existing properties increased, confirming the real-estate
market is now a bright spot in the U.S. expansion, economists
said before reports this week.  New-home  sales  climbed to a 380,000 annual rate in
November, the most since April 2010, according to the median
forecast of 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before Dec. 27
figures from the Commerce Department.  House prices  in 20 cities
rose 4 percent in the 12 months ended October, the best year-
over-year performance since June 2010, other figures may show.  “We’re going to see large gains in virtually all of the
housing measures next year,” said  Mark Vitner , a senior
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , a subsidiary of the largest mortgage lender in the
U.S. “Job growth and the steady decline in the  unemployment
rate  means that more and more workers feel confident about their
own economic prospects and they’re willing to move forward with
major commitments like buying a home and buying an automobile.”  Homebuilders such as  KB Home (KBH)  are benefitting from
increasing demand after a one-point drop in the jobless rate
over the past year helped shore up consumer sentiment and
record-low  mortgage rates  made buying more affordable. Other
data may show that the prospect of tax increases and government
spending cuts next year began to hurt confidence this month,
raising the risk that households will hold back in early 2013.  “Consumers are beginning to focus a little bit on the
fiscal cliff and likelihood that there’s not a good outcome
there,” Vitner said.  Shares Fall  Stocks sank at the end of last week after House Republican
leaders canceled a vote on higher taxes for top earners, sending
budget talks deeper into turmoil. The House and Senate don’t
plan to return until Dec. 27 to address the end-of-year budget
issues. That will give them less than a week to reach agreement
to avert the more than $600 billion tax increases and spending
cuts set to take effect in January.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.9 percent to
1,430.15 at the close on Dec. 21 in  New York . The gauge climbed
1.2 percent for the week.  Record-low  borrowing costs  are among reasons housing has
been able to rise above the budget turmoil so far. The average
rate on a 30-year, fixed mortgage was 3.37 percent last week,
hovering near the 3.31 percent reached a month earlier that was
the lowest in data going back to 1972, according to McLean,
Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  Housing Outlook  “While it has been a few years in the making, housing is
becoming a bright spot for the economy and the industry is once
again positioned to play its historical role of being a job
creator and leading the national economy into a full recovery,”
 Jeffrey Mezger , president and chief executive officer of Los
Angeles-based KB Home, said on a Dec. 20 earnings call.  Demand is being spurred by “increased urgency to take
advantage of incredible affordability as prices are now on the
rise,” he said. Homeownership is cheaper than rent in most
markets and “household formation is once again growing as
millennials are now starting to leave their parents’ homes and
move out on their own as the economy improves.”  S&P/Case-Shiller’s report on October home values in 20
cities is due Dec. 26. The projected gain for the month would
follow a 3 percent increase in the year through September.  A report on Dec. 28 from the National Association of
Realtors will show pending sales of existing homes climbed 1
percent from the previous month, according to the survey median.  Unemployment Drops  Less joblessness is helping spur demand for housing. The
unemployment rate fell to a four-year low of 7.7 percent in
November, according to Labor Department figures. It was at 8.7
percent a year earlier and peaked at 10 percent in October 2009,
four months after the recession ended.  Payrolls climbed by 146,000 workers in November, near an
average 151,450 for 2012 that’s little changed from the previous
year’s 153,330.  Measures of  consumer confidence  are showing mixed results
as growing concern about the fiscal outlook is counterbalanced
by the decrease in unemployment, gains in housing and a drop in
gasoline prices.  Figures due Dec. 27 from the Conference Board will show its
 confidence  index fell to 70 in December from a more than four-
year high of 73.7 the prior month, according median forecast of
economists surveyed.  Bloomberg’s Consumer Comfort Index climbed to an eight-
month high earlier this month, while the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment  index 
decreased to a five-month low in December, according to data
released last week. 