-- Pietersen Rested for England’s One-Day Cricket in New Zealand
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-12-23T13:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/pietersen-rested-for-england-s-one-day-cricket-in-new-zealand.html
Kevin Pietersen  has been omitted
from England’s one-day and Twenty20 cricket squads for series in
New Zealand next year as the selectors “look to manage the
workload of players throughout the year.”  James Anderson , Jonathan Trott and Graeme Swann will return
to the one-day side after being rested for forthcoming matches
against India.  Stuart Broad  is set to resume as Twenty20 captain
after a heel injury.  England is scheduled to play three Twenty20 games and three
one-day matches in New Zealand in February, before three Test
matches in March. Before then, there are five one-day games in
India.  “There are a number of players who we have decided not to
select for parts of the competitive program this winter as we
look to manage their workloads effectively while ensuring we
remain competitive across all formats,” national selector Geoff
Miller said in a  statement  on the  England  & Wales Cricket
Board’s website.  After England returns from New Zealand it is scheduled to
host the Black Caps and Australia at home later in the year in
all three formats of the sport. There is also the Champions
Trophy one-day tournament, while England will end 2013 in
Australia.  One-day squad: Alastair Cook (Essex, captain), James Anderson
(Lancashire), Jonny Bairstow (Yorkshire), Ian Bell
(Warwickshire), Tim Bresnan (Yorkshire), Stuart Broad
(Nottinghamshire), Jos Buttler (Somerset), Steven Finn
(Middlesex), Craig Kieswetter (Somerset), Eoin Morgan
(Middlesex), Samit Patel (Nottinghamshire), Graeme Swann
(Nottinghamshire), James Tredwell (Kent), Jonathan Trott
(Warwickshire).  Twenty20 squad: Stuart Broad (Nottinghamshire, captain), Jonny
Bairstow (Yorkshire), Tim Bresnan (Yorkshire), Danny Briggs
(Hampshire), Jos Buttler (Somerset), Jade Dernbach (Surrey),
Steven Finn (Middlesex), Alex Hales (Nottinghamshire), Michael
Lumb (Nottinghamshire), Stuart Meaker (Surrey), Eoin Morgan
(Middlesex), Samit Patel (Nottinghamshire), James Tredwell
(Kent), Luke Wright (Sussex).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 