-- Qihoo Outapcing Baidu in Internet Race: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-23T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/qihoo-outapcing-baidu-in-internet-race-china-overnight.html
Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , the
Chinese Internet company that started offering a search engine
in August, is overtaking rival  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  in the stock market on
prospects the newcomer will boost its share in the industry.  American depositary receipts of Qihoo jumped 5.9 percent
last week to trade at 35 times estimated earnings, double the
valuation of Baidu, and reversing a discount of as much as 50
percent in January. Baidu, owner of  China ’s most-used search
engine, rose 1.3 percent last week in  New York , sending
valuations to 17 times profits. Qihoo’s gain helped the
 Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
shares in New York rise for a third week.  Qihoo’s site -- so.com, which means search in Chinese --has
cornered more than 9 percent of the search market since its Aug.
16 debut, compared with Baidu’s stake of about 60 percent,
according to October  data  from New York-based Internet-tracking
firm Experian Hitwise. Qihoo will extend its rally on
expectations the Beijing-based company will post faster sales
growth than Baidu this year as well as in 2013, Oberweis Asset
Management Inc. said.  “If a small upstart takes a little bit of market share
from the industry leader, it may not be a big deal for Baidu but
it’s material for Qihoo,” Jim Oberweis, who oversees $700
million, including shares of Qihoo and Baidu, at Oberweis said
by phone from Lisle,  Illinois , on Dec. 20. “Qihoo probably has
the more aggressive opportunity to hit much higher growth rates
if they are successful in executing their strategies.”  Sales Forecast  Qihoo, whose fourth-quarter sales projection given in
November beat the median of six analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, has soared 69 percent this year. Beijing-based Baidu,
down 15 percent in 2012, is forecasting the slowest revenue
growth since 2009 this quarter. Analysts also forecast a 67
percent jump in Qihoo’s  net income  next year, compared with a 26
percent increase for Baidu, Bloomberg data show.  Qihoo develops anti-virus computer software and desktop
applications that include its web browser, the most popular in
China with 303 million users as of September. Searches derived
from Qihoo browser’s personal start-up page have  contributed  11
percent to its total query traffic last month, Hitwise data
show, the most among Chinese companies with similar services.  Qihoo’s search engine ranks second after Baidu’s and its
market share exceeds that of Tencent Holdings Ltd., China’s
largest  Internet company  by market, and Sohu.com Inc.  Initial Growth  “Qihoo is still gaining market share and, as a new
entrant, initial growth should be strong,” Echo He, a senior
analyst at Maxim Group LLC who recommends buying Qihu’s stock
and selling Baidu, said by phone from New York on Dec. 21.
“Baidu is facing lower margins on a permanent basis. Qihoo is
facing lower margins because it’s investing in the search
markets, and that’s temporary.”  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., declined 1.3 percent on Dec.
21 to $39.24 for a weekly loss of 0.3 percent. The ETF has risen
13 percent this year. The Bloomberg China-U.S. index retreated
1.3 percent on Dec. 21 to 96.42, paring the measure’s gain this
year to 7 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.9 percent to
1,430.15 after House Republican leaders canceled a vote on
higher taxes for top earners, causing a standstill in the U.S.
budget talks.  “We’re seeing some good engines coming from  emerging
markets , but it all depends on what happens in the U.S.,”
Christian Deseglise, who helps oversee $426 billion at HSBC
Global Asset Management, said by phone from New York on Dec. 21.
“If the U.S. went into recession in 2013, it’s likely to become
a very big drag on exports from China.”  E-House Plunges  E-House China Holdings Ltd., a real estate brokerage based
in  Shanghai , was the worst performer on the gauge last week,
losing 15 percent. Its ADRs sank 13 percent to $3.64 on Dec. 21,
the biggest one-day slump since 2009. SouFun Holdings Ltd., the
Beijing-based owner of the largest real estate information
website in China, dropped 2.2 percent on Dec. 21, trimming its
gain last week to 6.1 percent.  China “won’t rule out the possibility” of introducing new
housing curbs after the  property market  rebounded in November
and some regions saw “irrational exuberance,” China Securities
Journal reported on Dec. 21, citing an unidentified person in
the industry.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index slid 0.7 percent to
11,229.09 last week. The gauge has climbed 13 percent in 2012.
The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.7 percent to 2,153.31
from the highest level in four months, bringing its loss this
year to 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  