-- UN Syria Envoy to Meet Assad as Death Toll Rises
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 2012-12-24T09:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/un-syria-envoy-to-meet-assad-tomorrow-as-death-toll-rises.html
A top United Nations official plans
to meet Syrian President Bashar al-Assad today to discuss the
21-month uprising, a day after an opposition group said
government warplanes bombed a bakery and killed 94 people.  Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN Special Envoy on Syria, will meet
Assad to discuss international efforts toward a cease-fire.  Brahimi entered Syria via Lebanon yesterday and traveled to
Damascus, said Press TV, the state-run Iranian television
network, without citing anyone. Assad won’t stand down and won’t
be offered asylum in  Russia , according to Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov. The civil war has cost more than 44,000
lives since March 2011, according to the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights.  Mouaz al-Khatib, head of the main bloc of Syrian opposition
groups, informed Brahimi that Assad can’t stay even without
powers. The comments by al-Khatib, who leads the National
Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, were
posted on his Facebook page.  Syrian warplanes hit a bakery in the town of Halfaya near
Hama, the opposition Local Coordination Committees said in an e-
mailed statement. Abu Al-Qassim al-Hamawi, an activist from
Hama, told al-Jazeera television in a telephone interview that
hundreds of people had been waiting in line to buy bread. In
all, 184 people were killed by government forces across the
country yesterday, the committees said.  Increased Violence  Negotiations are the only way to halt the increasingly
intensive fighting, the UN Independent Commission of Inquiry on
 Syria  said Dec. 20. Violence has “increased dramatically” in
and around major cities, particularly Damascus, the capital, and
Aleppo, the commercial hub, the commission said in its latest
update. It found numerous incidents of torture, summary
executions and attacks on cultural property.  In a bid to revive mediation efforts, Russia has invited
Brahimi to Moscow this month, according to Lavrov. It has also
asked al-Khatib to hold talks with Russian representatives to
discuss a peaceful solution, he said.  Assad, whose forces have suffered recent setbacks at the
hands of the rebels, vowed last month that he wouldn’t flee. He
approved the nation’s 2013 budget of 1.38 trillion pounds ($19.5
billion), Syrian state television said yesterday.  Syria is “the last stronghold of secularism and stability
in the region,” Assad said in an interview with Russian state
broadcaster RT last month. “I have to live and die in Syria.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  