-- What the World Needs for Christmas Is New Specs Not Used
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-23T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/what-the-world-needs-for-christmas-is-new-specs-not-used.html
If you had to name the 15 most
destructive diseases or injuries in the world, would poor vision
be on the list?  It should be. Nearsightedness and farsightedness aren’t
fatal. Yet unaddressed they cause so much disability, especially
in the developing world, that they rank  No. 14 , just below
tuberculosis, malaria and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Kids who can’t see can’t learn. Adults who can’t see can’t work.  Unlike the other top maladies, however, poor vision can
usually be easily, and cheaply, remedied. All the patient needs
is an eye exam and a pair of glasses costing as little as $1.
Investments in vision correction would pay for themselves many
times over, given the increases in productivity they could be
expected to bring, according to a  recent study  by researchers at
 Australia ’s  Brien Holden Vision Institute  and the  Johns Hopkins
Bloomberg School of Public Health .  To make economic sense, such efforts must be tailored to
local needs. Though popular in the U.S., programs that send  used
eyeglasses  to developing countries fail that test, according to
an  earlier study  by some of the same researchers. Getting
spectacles from donation centers to end users costs money. About
93 percent of donated glasses have to be discarded because they
are damaged, for instance, or have lenses custom-designed for
individual eyes.  Providing a pair of recycled glasses is almost twice as
expensive ($20.49) as delivering a new, ready-made pair
($11.28), the researchers concluded. It’s also less effective,
given that used spectacles are sometimes unfashionable, gender-
inappropriate or mismatched to the person’s face shape.
Moreover, supplying donated glasses does nothing to develop a
sustainable eye-care industry in the community being served.  Instead, the authors of the most recent report propose
training 65,000 new optometrists to boost the ranks of the
roughly 167,000 now working worldwide to ensure that every
community has at least one such professional per 50,000 people,
in keeping with the World Health Organization’s recommended
ratio. That would be sufficient, the researchers calculate, to
cover the estimated 703 million backlogged cases of near- and
farsightedness.  Creating or expanding educational facilities would require
an injection of funds. Training centers, however, eventually
could become self-sustaining by seeing patients and dispensing
glasses.  The researchers also factored in the costs of establishing,
equipping and running eye-care shops for the first five years.
Their assumption is that, after that, day-to-day costs could be
recouped from patients. Once the optometrist’s training and
startup costs have been covered, an exam and a pair of ready-
made glasses might cost a patient $2.  All in all, these investments would total $20 billion over
five years. That’s serious money in any field and certainly in
global health. Governments, multilateral groups and nonprofit
organizations spent an estimated $16.8 billion last year
 combating HIV , the biggest draw on global health dollars. They
invested $1.5 billion addressing  malaria .  Yet not tackling vision problems among the world’s poor is
an even costlier proposition. The value of the productivity lost
to distance-vision impairment is $91 billion a year, a  2009
analysis  found. That figure suggests how much global gross
domestic product could increase if eyeglasses were made
available to all. Rarely does investment in foreign assistance
come with that kind of return.  Expanding economies could enable developing countries to
address other health needs with their own resources. Thus, a
strike against the 14th most harmful disease is also a blow to
the other miseries on that list.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  