-- Will 2013 Mark the Beginning of American Decline?
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-12-23T23:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-23/will-2013-mark-the-beginning-of-american-decline-.html
“A modest man,”  Winston Churchill 
supposedly quipped about Clement Attlee, his successor as prime
minister, “but then he has so much to be modest about.” We
should say the same about economists, particularly their ability
to forecast anything in a useful and timely manner.  Those predicting an imminent American economic decline have
usually been no exception. This time, though, they may be on to
something.  Prevailing arguments about when the era of U.S. dominance
would end, and which country would supplant it, have been wildly
and consistently wrong for half a century. In the 1950s, Soviet
leader  Nikita Khrushchev  was taken seriously when he told
Western ambassadors “We will bury you.” Today, his country no
longer exists. In the 1980s,  Japan  was supposedly going to be
No. 1; now the question is whether the precipitous decline in
its working-age population will generate a fiscal crisis.  The Germans -- or Europeans more broadly -- were thought to
be on the brink of elbowing aside the U.S. several times,
including in the run-up to the global financial crisis in 2008,
when the euro seemed to threaten the dollar’s role as the pre-
eminent reserve currency. Remember when Brazilian model  Gisele Bundchen  was quoted as  saying  she preferred to be paid in euros?
Now the euro-area economy looks very sick indeed, and Ms.
Bundchen is apparently long American icons (she married football
player  Tom Brady ).  Three Questions  Becoming the world’s top economic dog isn’t easy. That’s
because any contender --  China  or anyone else -- needs to answer
three tough questions.  First, do they have secure property rights for individuals?
Who would trust their rainy-day funds or their most innovative
ideas in a country where, when the going gets tough, the state
gets your stuff? China has a big current-account surplus and
lots of foreign-exchange reserves. They also have a 2,000-year
tradition of putting the government before the individual. Think
about all the ways this went wrong for the  Soviet Union .  Second, is the financial system viable in its current form?
Japan had a great economic-transformation story -- and an even
greater debt-fueled asset-price bubble when its banks went mad
in the mid-1980s. How confident are you that China,  Brazil  or
other  emerging markets  aren’t headed down the same road?  Third, is debt -- both public and private -- on an
unsustainable path? Mismanaged debt has brought  Europe  to its
current low point, both in the form of direct public borrowing
(see  Greece ) and in the equally painful form of private-sector
borrowing that goes bad, with nasty implications for the
government’s balance sheet (ask the Irish and Spanish about
this).  Even so, the U.S. has serious economic, social and
political problems. Just look at the current budget debacle.
Democrats and Republicans are at each other’s throats,
struggling theatrically, rather like Holmes and Moriarty above
Reichenbach Falls. If they get a fiscal deal done in the next
few weeks, do you really think it will result in a sensible tax
system, or bring long-term health-care spending under control?
Are we going to invest more in education? Will we really have a
frank discussion about what kind of social-insurance programs we
want, and how to pay for them?  I’m also well aware that incentives to take excessive risk
remain at the heart of Wall Street. The Dodd-Frank financial
reforms contain some useful measures but do too little to
significantly alter the balance of power between global
megabanks and the rest of us. The  Federal Reserve  seems to be
edging in the right direction on regulation but it is moving too
slowly to make any difference for the next cycle.  And the U.S. is now entering perhaps the most dangerous
phase of its long-standing tax revolt, in which Republicans
insist on holding down federal revenue while the population is
aging, but they won’t propose specific cuts in social programs,
precisely because they know that Medicare and Social Security
remain immensely popular.  More Borrowing  As a result, the political logic of the moment leads to
continued increases in U.S. government borrowing, about half of
which is financed, for now, by international savings at low
 interest rates . Our post-crisis monetary policy is contriving to
keep those rates very low for a long time, presumably setting
the table for a further round of mismanaged risk taking in the
financial sector (just as it did after 2001).  So while no country will rise up to take America’s place as
the world’s leading economy, its global position is indeed
threatened -- by its own reluctance to have an honest
conversation about the  federal budget  and by the unwillingness
of its political leadership to confront powerful interests on
 Wall Street .  Sooner or later, it will be America’s turn to fall out of
favor with investors and to see its own interest rates rise. It
is hard to know when that day will come, or precisely what
pressures the country will face.  Let me only venture one forecast: We will not be ready.  (Simon Johnson is a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  and a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics. He is co-author of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Simon Johnson  at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 