-- H&M CEO Persson Sees China Overtaking Germany as Biggest Market
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-01-30T15:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/h-m-extends-run-of-fourth-quarter-net-declines-on-investment-1-.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  Chief Executive
Officer Karl-Johan Persson sees  China  overtaking Germany as the
world’s second-biggest clothing retailer’s largest market as the
company opens stores there at a faster pace than anywhere else.  China’s economy is “growing rapidly,” the CEO said today,
declining to give a time frame for when it would be the Swedish
company’s top market. Persson, 37, also said H&M would consider
opening outlets in India as well as in Brazil, Colombia and
 Argentina  as European demand struggles to recover.  “The economic situation in Europe is tougher,” said
Persson, the grandson of founder Erling Persson. It is
“extremely tough” for  Greece , Spain,  Italy  and  Portugal  while
it is “a little bit tougher” than in the previous year in
countries such as  Germany , the Netherlands and Switzerland, he
said in an interview at the company’s headquarters in the
Swedish capital. “That is affecting the private consumption.”  H&M makes  most of its revenue  from the euro-area, where
governments are cutting spending and the jobless rate is at a
record 11.8 percent as the region’s economy continues to suffer
in the aftermath of the sovereign-debt crisis. While Germany
remains its biggest single market with 406 stores, the retailer
opened 52 locations out of last year’s record 339-outlet
expansion in China. H&M opened 22 stores in Germany in the
fiscal year ended Nov. 30 and closed 10.  Not ’Downsizing’  The CEO said the company is still expanding by opening
stores in southern  Europe , including Greece and Spain. Persson
said H&M isn’t “downsizing any market.”  The CEO said the company can hold to its 10 percent to 15
percent annual store expansion “for many years” even as it
develops business online. The introduction of “& Other
Stories” can lead to “lots of opportunities” to open
branches. H&M confirmed today that it will introduce the brand
in the spring, adding a sixth label to its portfolio. H&M said
this month it will start the brand, which focuses on women’s
shoes, bags and accessories, in stores and online in 10 European
countries.  The brand will be based around four styles: “industrial,
minimalistic, glamorous and bohemian,” the CEO said in the
interview.  The Swedish retailer, which also owns the COS chain, is
diversifying after falling behind  Inditex SA (ITX)  in the race for the
price-sensitive fashionista’s euro. Inditex, the world’s largest
clothing retailer, has been pushing online business for brands
including Zara. Arteixo, Spain-based Inditex also owns the
Massimo Dutti and Bershka brands.  H&M reported a  third straight drop  in fourth-quarter profit
today after investments to open stores bruised margins and said
freezing weather hurt sales this month. Net income slid 1.3
percent to 5.29 billion kronor in the three months ended Nov. 30
beating the 5.2 billion-kronor average estimate of 16 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  H&M shares were up 0.3 percent to 235.70 kronor as of 4:45
p.m. in  Stockholm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  