-- AbbVie’s First Profit Forecast is Higher Than Estimates
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-01-30T21:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/abbvie-s-first-forecast-is-higher-than-estimates.html
AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  forecast 2013 earnings
higher than analysts’ estimates, after sales surged for its
arthritis treatment Humira, the world’s second-best selling
medicine, and its testosterone-boosting gel.  AbbVie, giving its first  forecast  since breaking away from
 Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  on Jan. 1 as an independent company,
projected earnings excluding one-time items of $3.03 to $3.13 a
share. The top end of the range is higher than the $3.08 average
of 11  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Abbott split its diversified health-care products company,
leaving medical devices, diagnostic tools and infant nutrition
businesses with the parent, while North Chicago, Illinois-based
AbbVie became a drugmaker. Abbott Chief Executive Officer Miles White said the breakup was designed to get the other businesses
out from the shadow of Humira, now AbbVie’s top-selling product
with $9.27 billion in revenue last year.  The focus is on AbbVie’s experimental drugs. William Chase,
the company’s chief financial officer, said earlier this month
that AbbVie will try to develop specialty treatments rather than
targeting primary care medicines.  Among its leading experimental therapies is a hepatitis C
treatment targeted for the market in early 2015 that will
eliminate shots of interferon, the standard yearlong treatment
that has flu-like side-effects. Also in the final phase of
testing usually needed for U.S. regulatory approval are
medicines to treat multiple sclerosis and multiple myeloma.  AbbVie shares declined 1 percent to $36.93 at the close in
New York.  Sales of Humira increased 23 percent in the fourth quarter
to $2.68 billion. Sales last year of the arthritis medicine
trailed only the world’s best-selling drug, Pfizer Inc.’s
cholesterol treatment Lipitor. Lipitor has been losing sales
after generic copies came on the market last year.  The testosterone-boosting treatment AndroGel rose 41
percent to $364 million in the fourth quarter as the company
increased television advertisements for the medicine. Americans
spent $1.15 billion on the drug in 2012, a 32 percent increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  