-- ACA Financial Can Add Paulson to Suit Against Goldman
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-01-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/aca-financial-allowed-to-revise-goldman-sachs-abacus-suit.html
Paulson & Co. can be added as a
defendant in ACA Financial Guaranty Corp.’s lawsuit against
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  over the collateralized debt obligation
known as Abacus, a judge ruled.  ACA Financial sued Goldman Sachs in New York State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan  in 2011, accusing the investment bank of
inducing it to provide insurance for the Abacus deal. ACA this
month asked for permission to amend the complaint to add
Paulson, saying that the hedge fund and Goldman Sachs conspired
together to convince ACA to insure the investment.  Justice Barbara Kapnick granted ACA’s motion to amend the
complaint during a hearing yesterday in Manhattan. Goldman Sachs
had asked Kapnick to extend its time to respond to the motion
until it had a chance to review thousands of audio recordings
from ACA’s trading desk.  “It was a simple motion and she was correct to grant it,”
 Marc Kasowitz , an attorney with  Kasowitz Benson Torres &
Friedman LLP  who is representing ACA Financial, said in an
interview after yesterday’s hearing.  Goldman Sachs in July 2010 won court approval of a $550
million settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission over claims that it misled investors in the Abacus
CDO. Goldman Sachs failed to disclose Paulson’s role in
selecting underlying securities or that Paulson had taken a
short position against the CDO, the SEC said.  ‘Without Merit’  “We firmly believe that the amendment by ACA to include
Paulson as a defendant is completely without merit,”  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, said in an e-mail. “As the SEC
said back in 2010, Paulson was not the subject of the SEC’s
Abacus investigation, made no misrepresentations, and was not
the subject of any charges. As there is no basis in law or fact
for the amendment, Paulson will defend itself against this
baseless action.”  Richard Klapper, an  attorney  with Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
who is representing Goldman Sachs, declined to comment on
Kapnick’s ruling.  Kapnick ruled in April that ACA’s fraud claims against New
York-based Goldman Sachs could proceed. ACA is seeking to
recover $120 million in damages, according to a court filing.  The case is ACA Financial Guaranty Corp. v. Goldman Sachs
& Co., 650027-2011,  New York  State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York state Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  