-- Ace’s Greenberg Asks ‘My God, Why Are We Doing Guidance’
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-01-30T21:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/ace-s-greenberg-asks-my-god-why-are-we-doing-guidance-.html
Evan Greenberg, the chief executive
officer of  Ace Ltd. (ACE) , questioned the practice of forecasting
results for  Wall Street  after analysts sought more specifics
tied to the insurer’s projection for 2013 earnings.  Mike Zaremski of Credit Suisse Group AG and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s Greg Locraft pressed Greenberg for details today on a
conference call after the Zurich-based insurer projected 2013
 operating earnings  of $6.60 to $7 a share, compared with $7.65
in 2012.  Greenberg said that while insurers are charging more for
coverage, lower  interest rates  may limit investment income and
changes related to taxes may pressure results compared with
2012. He sidestepped requests for specifics, saying “we only
give guidance on a per-share basis, and we’re not going down
that rabbit hole.” Ace slipped 1.2 percent to $83.90 at 4 p.m.
in New York.  “I kind of wonder if guidance has outlived its usefulness
for you guys,” Ian Gutterman of Adage Capital Management LP
said on the call. “It seems every year at this time it causes
confusion, or at least more years than not.”  Greenberg welcomed Gutterman’s remark.  “Everyone here is cheering, because we’ve said that to
ourselves,” the CEO said. “My god, why are we doing
guidance.”  Greenberg joins executives including  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  CEO Jay Fishman and  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s billionaire Chairman
 Warren Buffett  in challenging the value of earnings guidance.
Insurers’ earnings can fluctuate based on  litigation  tied to
asbestos disputes, the prospects of clients’ businesses and the
frequency of disasters such as earthquakes and hurricanes.  ‘Fundamentally Unpredictable’  Fishman said in 2010 that he would stop giving annual
guidance, in part because “catastrophes are fundamentally
unpredictable.”  Buffett has written that he prefers to communicate with
investors through his annual letters and a statement of
principles he calls the Berkshire “owner’s manual.” In his
 1999 letter , Buffett set out his leadership approach after
welcoming new investors.  “We hope also that these new holders find that our owner’s
manual and annual reports offer them more insights and
information about Berkshire than they garner about other
companies from the investor-relations departments that these
corporations typically maintain,” Buffett said. “But if
it is ‘earnings guidance’ or the like that shareholders or
analysts seek, we will simply guide them to our public
documents.”  Ace has advanced 22 percent in the past 12 months in  New
York  trading. That compares with gains of 23 percent for
Berkshire, 34 percent for Travelers and 14 percent for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Bunn in New York at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  