-- Ackman-Backed CEO Seeks Deputy as Pacific Rail Rises
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-01-30T21:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/ackman-backed-ceo-seeks-deputy-as-pacific-rail-rises.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  Chief
Executive Officer Hunter Harrison, who was lured from retirement
as the head of  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , is poised to a
hire a deputy to implement his turnaround strategy at the least
efficient North American carrier.  Harrison’s previous experience with Keith Creel, Canadian
National’s chief operating officer makes Creel the likeliest
choice for Canadian Pacific’s No. 2 executive, said investors
and analysts including Canaccord Genuity’s David Tyerman.  Such a step would echo Harrison’s own recruitment by hedge-
fund manager  William Ackman , who waged a proxy fight to oust
Canadian Pacific’s previous CEO, Fred Green. Investors already
are betting that Harrison, 68, can repeat his history as a
profit booster, with a  56 percent gain  in the railroad’s stock
since he started outpacing Canadian National’s 11 percent.  “The Keith Creel watch is on,” Tyerman said in a
telephone interview from Toronto. “He is the operations guy,
and the issue at CP is operations. If you get Keith, you can
solve your succession plan with a guy that everybody thinks
would do the job. Everything fits together.”  The Calgary-based company expects to announce its
operations chief within the next three weeks, Harrison said on
an earnings call yesterday.  Ed Greenberg , a Canadian Pacific spokesman, declined to
comment. Mark Hallman, a Canadian National spokesman, said Creel
wouldn’t comment and that the railroad had no statement about
leadership changes beyond the 51-year-old Mongeau’s assertion on
a Jan. 22 conference call that “I don’t see us losing people.”  Operating Rankings  Canadian National’s ranking as the least expensive of North
America’s railroads to operate, on a cost-to-revenue basis,
enhances Creel’s resume just as it did his former supervisor’s.  Canadian Pacific climbed 3.1 percent yesterday to an all-
time high of C$116.22 while Canadian National closed at C$95.90.
Both companies fell today, with Canadian Pacific dropping 1.3
percent and Canadian National slipping 0.5 percent.  Since taking the helm June 29, Harrison has trimmed his
company’s operating ratio, an industry benchmark that compares
expenses to sales, to 74.8 percent.  Canadian Pacific traded at a 69 percent premium to Canadian
National on a price-earnings basis yesterday, compared with a 17
percent premium on Oct. 27, 2011, the day before Ackman
disclosed a stake that made his Pershing Square Capital
Management LP the  largest investor .  Management Shake-up  Harrison, who emphasized operational efficiency at Illinois
Central Corp. and then Canadian National before handing that
company’s reins to CEO Claude Mongeau, wasted little time
revamping Canadian Pacific’s leadership team.  Chief Operations Officer Mike Franczak left Oct. 1 after
seven months in that post. Ten days later, the railroad said
Chief Financial Officer Kathryn McQuade would retire on Nov. 1.
And on Oct. 16, the company appointed three senior vice-
presidents to oversee operations in Canada and the U.S.  The new CEO told investors at a presentation in New York
last month that he plans to shrink the company’s workforce by 23
percent and will consider selling a midwestern U.S. line gained
in the 2007 acquisition of Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern Railroad.  Harrison also reaffirmed his pledge to lower Canadian
Pacific’s operating ratio to about 65 percent in four years. The
ratio will probably be “in the low 70s” this year, the
railroad said yesterday.  In the meantime, Harrison has turned his attention to
finding a deputy.  Right Candidate  “There’s a key role here that all of you are aware of,
called COO, that we haven’t filled yet,” Harrison said Dec. 4.  “We can offer them what nobody else can offer them, an
opportunity at a CEO job in two or three years, to get a chance
to maybe learn a little bit from me and the rest of the team. At
the appropriate time, whether it’s internal, external, within
the industry or outside, we’ll make the right decision there,
and it’ll only be additive to the whole effort.”  Finding the right candidate is important since Canadian
Pacific’s operating ratio remains the worst of the biggest North
American rail carriers. Creel’s employer, Canadian National,
boasts a ratio of 63.6, the best of those that have reported
fourth-quarter earnings so far.  “Keith’s situation has been discussed ever since there was
a rumor of  Hunter Harrison  joining CP,” said Brandon Snow, a
fund manager with CI Investments’s Cambridge Advisors unit in
Toronto, which owns Canadian National stock among assets of more
than C$4 billion ($4 billion). “I wouldn’t be shocked if he
went to CP. He and Hunter were always very close.”  ‘Only Seat’  One reason that Canadian Pacific might be attractive to the
44-year-old Creel is his current chief’s relative youth, said
Tyerman.  “There aren’t that many CEO jobs in the rail industry,
since there aren’t that many rails,” he said. “If Keith wants
to be CEO, then that’s probably going to be the only seat that’s
available in the near term.”  Creel, who holds a marketing and management degree from
Jacksonville State University, began his railroad career at
Burlington Northern Railway in 1992 before joining Illinois
Central Corp. in 1996. He -- and Harrison -- came to Canadian
National when the Montreal-based company acquired Illinois
Central in 1999.  Freight Schedules  “Keith has outstanding leadership skills,” Harrison said
in an April 2007 Canadian National statement that announced
Creel’s promotion to the post of executive vice president of
operations. “He has played a significant role in leading CN’s
scheduled/precision railroading model to the forefront of the
rail industry.”  Precision railroading, the approach championed by Harrison
at Canadian National and Illinois Central, involves running
shipments and carloads on fixed timetables to ensure reliable
deliveries. Maintaining freight schedules has long been an
industry challenge.  Canadian National’s operations chief received total
compensation of C$2.9 million in 2011, the most recent year for
which data is available. He held C$9.9 million in unexercised
“in the money” options, C$6.3 million in share-based awards
that hadn’t yet vested, and C$11 million in awards that hadn’t
yet been paid out or distributed, according to Canadian
National’s 2012 management information circular.  “From CN’s point of view, he can leave but if he does, CP
is going to have to pay,” said Snow, at Cambridge Advisors.
“There will be a loss of pay and a loss of stock, probably in
the tens of millions of dollars. That would be their stance.”  Executive poaching “is always a risk for CN,” said Denis Durand, senior partner at Montreal-based asset manager
Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd., the company’s sixth-largest
shareholder. “It’s a by-product of being the most efficient
railroad. Thankfully CN has a lot of depth in its executive
team. They’ve had executives leave before, and I’m sure they can
deal with another departure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner in Dallas at   edufner@bloomberg.net  