-- Afghan Contractor Failings on Bomb Barriers Being Probed
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-30T18:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/afghan-contractor-failings-on-bomb-barriers-being-probed.html
U.S. investigators are widening a
criminal investigation into whether Afghan contractors failed to
install barriers to protect troops from improvised bombs or
billed for substandard work.  The inquiry stems from the killing of two American soldiers
in July on a highway in Ghazni province in eastern  Afghanistan .
An Afghan contractor didn’t install grates that could have
prevented insurgents from planting bombs in culverts carrying
water under roadways, according to the U.S. Special Inspector
for Afghanistan Reconstruction.  The probe is being expanded beyond Ghazni province based on
evidence that failure to install the barriers or shoddy work on
the U.S.-financed “culvert  denial  systems” may be widespread,
John Sopko, the inspector general, said in an e-mail and in a
speech this month in Washington.  “We launched a criminal investigation and have been
working closely with the military and Afghan authorities to
bring those responsible to justice,” said Sopko, whose office
is an independent agency created by Congress to oversee U.S.
spending in Afghanistan.  Congress has appropriated almost $89 billion since 2002 for
reconstruction of Afghanistan. The U.S. is working with Afghan
security forces and the judicial system to prepare for the
departure of most American and allied forces by December 2014.  ‘Deep-Seated’ Corruption  “While there has been major progress” in Afghanistan’s
reconstruction, the country’s “reputation for corruption is
deep-rooted and widespread, Sopko said in a report released
today. The wrongdoing ‘‘involves many foreigners, including U.S.
commissioned and non-commissioned officers and enlisted
personnel, federal civilians, contractors, and subcontractors,’’
he said.  The president of the company involved in the Ghazni
province incident was arrested last weekend by the Afghan
attorney general’s office on evidence developed by the inspector
general and the U.S. military, according to Sopko’s office.  ‘‘The prompt reporting of this dangerous situation by U.S.
commanders enabled us to move quickly and issue an alert
letter” in October, Sopko said.  Sopko’s investigators this month participated with U.S.
troops in operations to survey roads and clear improvised bombs.  The inspector general’s Special Projects unit will conduct
a “targeted evaluation” of systems installation throughout the
country over the next four months.  Spot Welding  Colonel Thomas Collins, a U.S. Army spokesman in
Afghanistan, said in an e-mail that the U.S. hired a different
company to complete the work in Ghazni province.  The first company “improperly installed” 122 grates along
part of Highway 1 between Ghazni City and the border of Wardak
Province, the inspector general said. It was paid  $361,680
under the contract.  Instead of using concrete to anchor the grates, the company
relied on “spot welding, making it easier for insurgents to
tamper with them.”  The company “also fraudulently submitted misleading
photographs claiming that culverts had protection work installed
when in fact no work had been completed,” the inspector general
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  