-- Hagel Pledges Focus on Iran Military Options at Pentagon
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-30T21:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/hagel-pledges-focus-on-iran-military-options-at-pentagon.html
Chuck Hagel is pledging that as
defense secretary he will “focus intently on ensuring the U.S.
military” is prepared to strike  Iran ’s nuclear facilities if
needed.  “I agree with the president that the  United States  should
take no options off the table in our efforts to prevent Iran
from acquiring a nuclear weapon,” Hagel said in written answers
to policy questions posed by the Senate Armed Services
Committee, which will hold a hearing tomorrow on President
 Barack Obama ’s nomination of the former Nebraska senator to head
the Pentagon.  “While there is time and space for diplomacy, backed by
pressure, the window is closing,” Hagel said in the 112-page
document obtained by  Bloomberg News . “Iran needs to demonstrate
it is prepared to negotiate seriously.”  Hagel’s readiness to take on Iran is among questions he may
face tomorrow from fellow Republicans, who have said that they
are troubled by his past policy comments -- including opposition
to unilateral economic sanctions against Iran and to the troop
surge during the  Iraq war  and remarks he once made about the
influence of the “Jewish lobby” in Washington.  Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican who opposes Hagel,
said today the nominee is repudiating his past positions on such
issues in a political ploy to win confirmation.  ‘Confirmation Conversion’  “This sudden and convenient transformation beggars
belief,” Cornyn said in a speech on the Senate floor. “He just
wants to win approval from members of this chamber in what we
might call a confirmation conversion.”  Most of the written answers Hagel provided to the committee
reflect current White House and Pentagon policy on  Iraq ,
 Afghanistan , budget cuts, personnel issues, weapons programs and
the industrial base. When pressed on changes he might make if he
is confirmed to succeed the departing defense secretary,  Leon Panetta , Hagel repeatedly responded that he would have to weigh
such matters once in office.  While Hagel, 66, has in the past described the Pentagon’s
budget as bloated, he said in his written responses that
automatic cuts scheduled to begin in March would be
“devastating,” echoing Panetta’s position on the across-the-
board reductions known as sequestration. Unless Congress and
Obama agree on an alternative plan to reduce the  federal
deficit , defense programs will be cut by $45 billion through
September and about $500 billion over a decade.  ‘Harm Readiness’  “It would harm military readiness and disrupt each and
every investment program,” Hagel said. “I urge Congress to
eliminate the sequester threat permanently and pass a balanced
deficit-reduction plan.”  There also would be “negative effects on morale and
welfare of the force including recruiting and retention
problems,” Hagel said.  “It would send a terrible sign to our military and
civilian workforce, to those we hope to recruit and to both our
allies and adversaries,” he said.  While Panetta once called the automatic cuts a “doomsday
mechanism,” Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said in an
interview yesterday that it is now “more likely than unlikely”
that sequestration will go ahead.  Hagel indicated that he would be a hands-on manager when it
comes to defense contracting.  Asked about  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter, the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons program, Hagel
expressed concern about the strategy for acquiring the jet for
the  Air Force , the Navy and the Marine Corps.  The Pentagon “has taken too much risk” with the program’s
“concurrency” strategy that builds planes while they are still
being developed, “committing to production well before the
design was tested enough to know that it is mature and stable,”
he said.  Examining F-35  Frank Kendall, the Pentagon’s top weapons buyer, said last
year that the approach was “acquisition malpractice.”  The F-35 “has experienced significant cost increases and
schedule slips,” Hagel said.  The Pentagon’s $395.7 billion estimate for the total cost
of development and production of 2,443 fighters is a 70 percent
increase since the initial contract with Bethesda, Maryland-
based company was signed in 2001.  If confirmed, Hagel said, “I will make it a high priority
to examine the health of this program to determine if it is on
sound footing and ensure the aircraft are delivered with the
capability we need and cost we can afford.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  