-- Thai Billionaire Charoen Wins Control of Fraser & Neave
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-01-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/thai-billionaire-charoen-wins-control-of-fraser-neave.html
Thailand ’s richest man won control
of  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN)  after his S$13.8 billion ($11.2 billion)
offer for the 130-year-old property and beverage company gained
the backing of a majority of shareholders.  Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi’s Jan. 18 offer
of S$9.55 a share topped a proposal from rival  Overseas Union
Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  His bid had the support of 50.9 percent of
shareholders yesterday, according to a Singapore exchange
statement by his company, TCC Assets Ltd.  “Accordingly, the F&N offer has become unconditional in
all respects,” TCC Assets said.  The deal gives Charoen control over a company that has
assets from soft drinks to serviced apartments across  Southeast
Asia . The billionaire first invested in F&N in July, setting off
a fight for its assets that led to the biggest acquisition of a
Singapore-based company.  Charoen gained the upper hand in the takeover battle after
rival OUE failed to match his offer this month. OUE, a
Singapore-based property company, had enlisted Japanese brewer
Kirin Holdings Co. in its November bid. OUE would get the
company’s property business and Kirin would take the food and
beverage unit, under that pact. The Japanese brewer has a 14.8
percent stake in F&N.  Thai Investments  Charoen, 68, agreed to buy a 22 percent stake in F&N in
July, sparking a fight for its assets. He had offered S$8.88 a
share in September.  The latest offer will be extended to Feb. 18, TCC Assets
said in the statement yesterday.  Shares of  Thai Beverage (THBEV)  Pcl, a Thai brewery controlled by
Charoen, climbed 8.1 percent to a record 53.5 Singapore cents at
the close yesterday. F&N increased 0.1 percent to S$9.56,
closing above Charoen’s offer price for the first time since OUE
pulled out of the bidding war.  The Thai billionaire was born and raised in Bangkok’s
Chinatown district. He bid for the rights to operate
distilleries during a liberalization of the nation’s liquor
industry, before expanding into beer, alcohol, sugar, and
packaging businesses.  Charoen’s unlisted business, TCC Group, has a real estate
unit. His Thai Beverage, which sells the Chang brand of beer,
gets almost all its revenue from its home market.  OUE Executive Chairman Stephen Riady is a son of Mochtar Riady, who controls  Indonesia ’s Lippo Group, with businesses
ranging from real estate and financial services to food across
 Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  