-- Main Japan Opposition Says BOJ Independence Key for Next Chief
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-01-30T01:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/main-japan-opposition-says-boj-independence-key-for-next-chief.html
The next  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor must
be someone who can protect its independence, an executive of the
biggest opposition party said, a sign that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe may face resistance in getting his nominee through the Diet.  “The BOJ’s independence must be guaranteed,” Mitsuru
Sakurai, policy chief for the Democratic Party of  Japan , said in
an interview yesterday. “We need someone who can do that.”  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s term ends in April and two
deputies step down in March, with Abe seeking candidates who
will enact “bold” monetary easing to overcome more than a
decade of deflation. Abe needs opposition support to ensure any
nominee’s passage through the Diet’s upper house, where his
Liberal Democratic Party lacks a majority.  The DPJ, which lost power to the LDP in December’s lower
house election, remains the biggest party in the upper chamber.
Sakurai, who served as deputy finance minister during Prime
Minister Naoto Kan’s administration, said the new governor must
possess management skills, be able to cooperate with the
government, and be able to communicate with the markets. He
declined to say whether a former Ministry of Finance bureaucrat
would be an acceptable choice.  Abe last week hailed as “epoch-making” a joint statement
between the government and the BOJ that set a 2 percent
inflation target while holding off on fresh stimulus to achieve
it until next year. He is seeking a governor who shares his
views on policy and who has global communication skills, he said
yesterday in an interview broadcast by Nihon TV.  While Yoshimi Watanabe, head of the small opposition Your
Party, said in an interview this month that former BOJ
bureaucrats should not be considered for the post, Abe said that
experience in the bureaucracy would not exclude anyone.  Potential candidates floated by lawmakers and economists
include former economy minister Heizo Takenaka, Asian
Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda and former deputy BOJ
governor Kazumasa Iwata.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  