-- Taiwan-China Boost, EU Carbon Plan, Barclays: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-30T13:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/taiwan-china-boost-eu-carbon-plan-barclays-compliance.html
Taiwan will double the limit on
mainland Chinese institutions’ securities investments in its
market as the cross-strait economic relationship deepens.  Maximum inbound investment from China will be increased to
$1 billion from $500 million, according to Huang Tien-mu,
Taiwan’s securities regulator. He spoke after a meeting
yesterday between Guo Shuqing, chairman of the  China Securities
Regulatory Commission , and Taiwan’s top market regulator, Chen
Yuh-chang, in Taipei.  The increased scope for investment from China coincides
with Taiwan’s central bank allowing domestic lenders to conduct
 yuan  business and as the island’s tourism bureau doubles the
quota for mainland visitors. Financial market regulators on both
sides of the  Taiwan Strait  signed a non-binding cooperation
agreement in 2009.  China may relax minimum management asset requirements for
Taiwan brokerages seeking quotas under the Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investment program, CSRC Director General of
International Affairs Tong Daochi told reporters in Taipei.
Funds from outside China invest in the country’s capital markets
through the QFII program. There are 207 approved QFIIs that have
access to mainland stocks.  The CSRC is also considering a pilot program in Taiwan of
the  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor, or RQFII,
which allows for the repatriation of offshore yuan, Tong said.  China will start a trial allowing Taiwan brokerages to hold
controlling stakes in investment-consulting joint ventures in
pilot areas, Taiwan’s Financial Supervisory Commission said in a
statement after the meeting.  Compliance Policy  Finland Backs EU CO2 Plan; Denmark Calls Situation Unsustainable  Finland threw its weight behind a European Union rescue
plan for the bloc’s carbon market as Denmark said the situation
was unsustainable, highlighting the need for governments to
tackle a record surplus of allowances.  Finland said yesterday that it is in favor of the European
Commission’s stop-gap measure to delay auctions of some carbon
permits, joining Spain, Italy and France, which signaled last
year that they are going to support the proposed market fix. At
stake is the price of permits in the world’s biggest emissions
trading program, which slumped to a record low last week on
concerns that policymakers will fail to act to strengthen the
market.  The commission’s plan to sell fewer carbon permits in
2013-2015 and return them to the market in 2019-2020, a strategy
known as backloading, has caused rifts among governments,
industries and lawmakers. Several EU member states set
conditions for supporting the  measure  and some don’t have a
formal stance on the plan yet. Backloading needs qualified
majority support from governments to be implemented.  Danish Climate Minister Martin Lidegaard, speaking in a
phone interview yesterday, described the situation as
“unsustainable.” Denmark, along with the U.K. and Sweden,
favors deepening the EU emission-reduction target as the best
option to tackle the glut, he said.  The U.K., with 29 votes, set some conditions for its
support while signaling flexibility, EU officials with knowledge
of the matter said last week. Germany, which also has 29 votes,
remains undecided. Poland, with 27 votes, is leading efforts to
block the measure.  Compliance Action  Barclays Failed to Refute Energy ‘Scheme,’ U.S. FERC Says  Barclays Plc (BARC)  failed to show that four former traders didn’t
manipulate U.S. energy markets, the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission’s staff said, backing $488 million in penalties on
the bank and the individuals.  The traders engaged in a “three-part manipulative scheme”
to game the markets, FERC staff said in a filing Jan. 28, which
was posted to the agency’s website yesterday. “Neither Barclays
nor its individual traders are able to offer any credible
explanation to show their conduct was proper,” it said, adding
that the proposed penalties are “reasonable and appropriate.”  London-based Barclays and the traders have denied any
wrongdoing and have vowed to challenge the accusations in court.  The combined penalties are the largest ever proposed by
FERC for alleged market violations, and the outcome of the
dispute may help clarify what constitutes market manipulation.
Barclays said in a Dec. 14 regulatory filing that the FERC staff
interpretation is too broad and may chill trading in power
markets, where electricity supply is bought and sold.  “We believe that our trading was legitimate and in
compliance with applicable law,”  Mark Lane , a bank spokesman,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The FERC should throw
out the proposed penalties and end the investigation, he said.  “If the FERC proceeds, we intend to vigorously defend this
matter in federal court,” Lane said.  Banks, Regulators Must Make Headway on Living Wills, FSB Says  Banks and national regulators are too slow to draw up
living wills showing how large international lenders can be
wound down if they fail, a group of global regulators said
yesterday.  “Significant work remains” to be done on the bank-crisis
plans, the Financial Stability Board said in a statement
following a meeting in Zurich. The board said that it would
publish a review of nations’ progress in April, in a bid to
identify lenders and regulators that aren’t up to speed.  U.S. and European Union regulators have called on large
 banks (SX7P)  to prepare living wills, to be developed with their
supervisors, showing how they might be safely broken up without
causing market turmoil and taxpayer-funded bailouts. EU nations
alone have provided as much as  4.6 trillion euros  ($6.2
trillion) of capital injections and other support to lenders
since 2008 to prevent a meltdown of the financial system
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The European Banking Authority last week told 39 banks,
including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , to draft such
contingency plans by the end of this year.  The FSB brings together regulators, central bankers and
finance ministry officials from the Group of 20 nations.  Insurance Beneficiaries Get $665.7 Million After New York Probe  Life insurance beneficiaries who were unaware they were
entitled to funds received $665.7 million in payments after a
probe into unpaid claims, a New York regulator said.  More than 89,000 payments have been made since the review
began in 2011, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday from
the  New York Department of Financial Services , which oversees
financial and insurance products in the state.  The department, under new regulations that took effect last
year, now makes “good faith efforts” to find beneficiaries of
life insurance policies, rather than waiting for claimants to
come forward, according to the statement.  Almunia Says More Antitrust Complaints to Follow on Patents  European Union Competition  Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
signaled today that he would send further antitrust complaints
to technology companies concerning their use of legal
injunctions to block competitors from using key patents.  The  European Commission  last year sent antitrust objections
to  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  over such injunctions and opened two
probes into  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit on similar
issues.  Saint-Gobain’s $1.2 Billion Fine Said to Be Cut Over EU Error  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA ’s record 896 million-euro ($1.2
billion) cartel fine may be reduced by European Union regulators
within weeks as officials seek to correct a calculation error,
according to two people familiar with the decision.  Regulators will make small reductions in the penalty
because they made a mistake in the way they evaluated car-glass
sales, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the fining process isn’t public. A 370 million-euro fine against
Pilkington Group Ltd., a  Nippon Sheet Glass Co. (5202)  unit, may also
be reduced for the same reason, one of the people said.  Saint-Gobain, Europe’s largest building-materials supplier,
was handed the  highest EU fine  against a single company in 2008
for plotting with rivals to fix the price of car windows sold to
auto manufacturers from 1998 to 2003. Saint-Gobain’s penalty was
increased because the company was a repeat offender already
punished for a separate cartel to fix prices for glass used in
the construction industry.  The European Commission, the EU’s Brussels-based antitrust
Authority, and Sophie Chevallon, a spokeswoman for Saint-Gobain
in Courbevoie near Paris, declined to comment. David Roycroft, a
spokesman for St. Helens, England-based Pilkington, didn’t
return a call and an e-mail seeking comment.  Saint-Gobain and Pilkington have challenged the fines at
the EU’s General Court in Luxembourg.  ASIC Accepts Enforceable Undertaking From Macquarie Equities  The Australian Securities and Investments Commission
accepted an enforceable undertaking from Macquarie Equities
following a surveillance that found some recurring compliance
deficiencies by and in the supervision of the company’s
advisers.  The company is a unit of Macquarie Group and is authorized
under its Australian Financial Services license to offer
financial advice, ASIC said on website.  A Macquarie spokeswoman said the broker was committed to
the changes in the Jan. 28 enforceable undertaking, The Age
reported today, without identifying the spokeswoman.  “We take our obligations to regulators very seriously. We
have a strong track record of compliance practice and if
concerns are raised, we work diligently to resolve them.
Accordingly, we have been working and will continue to work
constructively with ASIC,” said the spokeswoman, according to
The Age.  Courts  Texas Day Trader Sued by SEC Over High-Frequency Trading Claims  A Texas day trader illegally raised more than $6 million
from the Houston-area Lebanese community by making false
promises that his algorithmic trading program would generate 30
percent returns, U.S. regulators said.  Firas Hamdan, 49, hid $1.5 million in losses from his 33
investors, telling them the funds were tied up in the Greek debt
crisis and the 2011  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  bankruptcy, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a lawsuit filed
yesterday in U.S. District Court in Houston. The suit seeks
penalties and other relief. Hamdan, who raised the money from
2007 to 2012, is contesting the SEC’s claims.  Hamdan told fellow members of the Lebanese and Druze
communities that he would pool their investments with his own
money and conduct high-frequency trading using a proprietary
trading algorithm, the SEC said. He showed them phony
documentation of positive returns in 59 of 60 months from 2007
through 2012, and falsely claimed that a well-known Dallas-area
hedge fund manager had invested $1 million with him, according
to the lawsuit.  “Mr. Hamdan is disappointed the SEC took this step,” said
Robert Heim, Hamdan’s attorney at Meyers & Heim LLP in New York.
“We intend to contest the SEC’s case, and we believe the SEC’s
allegations are without merit.”  Interviews  Feinberg Talks About Jefferies CEO Pay, Executive Salaries  Kenneth Feinberg , managing partner at Feinberg Rozen LLP
and former U.S. special master on executive compensation,
discussed the decision by  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  to pay Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Handler  $19 million for fiscal 2012
and to approve $39 million in restricted stock awards for the
next three years. Feinberg also talked about government bailouts
and setting private pay of executives, and the likelihood of
seeing such intervention again.  He spoke with  Stephanie Ruhle  and  Erik Schatzker  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Constancio Says ECB Bank Supervision Comes With Reputation Risk  European Central Bank  Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said
any “negative event” in banking supervision “could damage the
central bank’s reputation as a monetary authority.”  He made the comments in a speech in Frankfurt yesterday,
where he said reputation risk is a “true risk” associated with
assuming supervisory tasks. Constancio added that “supervision
is an area that can never be perfect,” and said that
“accidents are always possible.”  The ECB may gain more power to give direct orders to banks
as European Union lawmakers and governments thrash out a final
deal on handing oversight powers to the central bank. The issue
is before the European Parliament.  “It is neither realistic nor desirable that the European
Central Bank would supervise alone more than 6,000 credit
institutions,” Constancio said. He said the concern over
conflicts of interest is a “false risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  