-- Malaysian Stocks Drop on Election Concern: Kuala Lumpur Mover
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2013-01-30T04:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/malaysian-stocks-drop-on-election-concern-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
Malaysian  stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index to a seven-week low, and a gauge of volatility
rose to a 13-month high as speculation the government will call
an election soon heightened.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  lost 0.8 percent to
1,624.89 as of 12:25 p.m. local time, poised for its lowest
close since Dec. 7. It was the worst performer among benchmark
gauges in Asia today. The KLCI’s 10-day volatility climbed to
14.45, its highest since Dec. 8, 2011. Trading volumes were 69
percent above the 30-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed.  Genting Bhd. (GENT) , a casino and power group, dropped 3.3
percent, leading declines in the index.  “Local funds are selling again as the election is getting
nearer and nearer,,” Ang Kok Heng, who helps manage the
equivalent of $422 million as chief investment officer at
Phillip Capital Management Sdn., said by phone in Kuala Lumpur.  There was speculation the vote would be held during school
holidays at the end of March, Fiona Leong, a Kuala Lumpur-based
analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a note dated Jan. 23. Stock
prices are likely to remain volatile until polling day,
according to Leong. The KLCI index plunged 2.3 percent last
week, its biggest weekly loss since May 18, on speculation the
election would result in the ruling coalition losing seats.  Prime Minister Najib Razak must dissolve the nation’s
parliament by April 28. Najib’s approval rating fell to the
lowest level in 16 months, the Merdeka Center for Opinion
Research said in a statement on Jan. 10.  Najib is having his weekly Cabinet meeting and couldn’t
comment on the election timing, a government spokesperson said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  