-- Alior’s Main Holder Said to Pick UBS for Sale of 30% Stake
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i ,   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-01-31T13:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/alior-s-main-shareholder-said-to-pick-ubs-for-sale-of-30-stake.html
Alior Bank SA (ALR) ’s main shareholder,
Carlo Tassara SpA, is working with UBS AG to sell at least 30
percent of the bank that held Poland’s biggest initial public
offering last year, three people familiar with the matter said.  UBS has until the end of 2013 to sell the stake in Alior,
which owns Poland’s third-largest branch network, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the plan is
private. UBS may invite bids next month, the people said. The
bank’s market value is about 4.6 billion zloty ($1.5 billion).  “It is a fast-growing, innovative business, led by one of
the strongest management teams in Poland,” with the third-
largest network built in “just” four years, Armen Gasparyan
and  David Nangle , banking analysts at Renaissance Capital Ltd.,
said in a note to investors yesterday.  Tassara officials didn’t respond to e-mails and telephone
calls seeking comment. Alior referred questions to Tassara. A
UBS spokeswoman, Stephanie Aneto, declined to comment.  Poland has been one of the most active markets in Europe
for deals involving banks and insurers in the last three years.
Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  acquired  Bank Zachodni WBK SA (BZW)  and
Kredyt Bank SA. Austria’s  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) 
bought Polbank SA. German insurer  Talanx AG (TLX)  purchased
 Towarzystwo Ubezpieczen i Reasekuracji Warta SA .  Share Sales  Less than a week ago, the Polish government sold a $1.7
billion stake, or 12.2 percent, in  PKO Bank Polski SA (PKO) , the
country’s largest lender.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s largest bank,
is selling as much as 9.1 percent of Poland’s  Bank Pekao SA. (PEO)   Alior declined 2.7 percent to 71.70 zloty by 1:24 p.m. in
Warsaw trading, cutting to 26 percent the advance since going
public in December. Poland’s WIG20 index was little changed.  Alior was founded in 2008, broke even after 28 months and
had a 23 percent return on equity in the first nine months of
last year in eastern Europe’s biggest banking market. The lender
sold 2.1 billion zloty of shares in its IPO. A third of that was
new stock earmarked to boost lending and fight competition as
Santander, billionaire Leszek Czarnecki’s Getin Noble Bank SA
and Raiffeisen stepped up expansion.  UBS’s investment bank is led by former Bank of America
Corp.investment banker  Andrea Orcel , who helped Santander buy
Zachodni in 2011.  Potential Interest  The Alior stake may attract bids from Vienna-based  Erste
Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  of Paris or Milan-based  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Marta Czajkowska-Baldyga, an analyst at KBC Group
NV, said by phone from Warsaw. BNP and Intesa tried to buy a
bank in Poland two years ago and were among bidders for Bank
Zachodni. Russia’s  OAO Sberbank (SBER)  CEO Herman Gref has also said he
wants to buy a bank in Poland.  A purchaser who exceeds 33 percent will have to announce a
public tender to buy as much as 66 percent of shares from other
investors, according to Polish law.  Erste Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl’s stated goal
is to become “the savings bank between Germany and Russia.”
Erste got there in Romania and the Czech and Slovak republics,
where its units are the biggest banks. In Hungary, Erste is No.
2 after OTP Bank Nyrt. In soon-to-be European Union member
Croatia, it’s the third-biggest. In the entire former communist
part of Europe, Erste trails only UniCredit SpA and Raiffeisen.  The only major central European economy where Erste doesn’t
have a full operation is Poland. Treichl has said for 10 years
that he’d like to buy there, and repeated that intention at the
2012 and 2011 shareholder meetings. He told WirtschaftsBlatt on
Jan. 23 that a purchase could come soon.  Sberbank Expansion  Michael Mauritz , an Erste spokesman, declined to comment
when asked if the bank would be interested in the stake. A BNP
Paribas official also declined to comment.  Sberbank acquired a foothold in eastern European by buying
Vienna-based Volksbanken International AG last year. It has been
in talks to buy an Alior stake from Tassara before, Il Sole 24
Ore reported on Dec. 30, without saying how it obtained the
information. “Our interest in the market is long-term rather
than immediate,” Alexander Baziyan, a spokesman, said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Sberbank may meet resistance from Poland’s Komisja Nadzoru
Finansowego watchdog, newspaper Parkiet reported on Jan. 17,
without saying where it got the information. KNF may demand
Alior’s buyer’s home country have a credit rating at least on
par with  Poland ’s A-, which would rule out Sberbank, Parkiet
said.  “Sberbank acknowledges a strong and solid regulatory
framework in Poland that helps sustainability of the banking
system against the crisis,” Sberbank’s spokesman said. A KNF
spokesman, Lukasz Dajnowicz, declined to comment yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  