-- New York Area Trash-Hauling Defendants Plead Not Guilty
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-30T21:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/all-29-trash-haul-defendants-plead-not-guilty-in-conspiracy-case.html
Twenty-nine people charged with
taking part in an alleged organized-crime conspiracy to control
commercial-waste disposal businesses in New York and New Jersey
pleaded not guilty today in  Manhattan  federal court.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel, who is presiding over the
case, set a Sept. 23 trial date. Prosecutors in the office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara allege that 12 defendants
engaged in a racketeering scheme to control waste-hauling
companies in both states while 17 others were charged with
extortion, loansharking, and mail and wire fraud.  The government says the alleged conspiracy lasted from 2009
to 2012 and involved a variety of techniques to control the
trash businesses, including intimidation, extortion and
violence.  Prosecutors said 12 of the defendants were members or
associates of the Genovese, Gambino and Lucchese crime families
who had been previously banned from the waste industry and were
unlikely to be granted the necessary licenses because of their
criminal affiliations.  The defendants allegedly concealed their identities and
obtained the licenses by using waste-disposal businesses that
were officially owned and operated by others.  FBI Wiretaps  Assistant U.S. Attorney Natalie Lamarque told Castel today
that the government was in the process of turning over evidence
to defense lawyers, including 530 days of recordings made by a
cooperating witness and wiretaps that the Federal Bureau of
Investigation made during a three-month period.  Prosecutors said the defendants controlled waste disposal
and carting businesses in the New York City area, as well as in
New York’s Westchester, Rockland and Nassau counties and New
Jersey’s Bergen and Passaic counties.  The 12 defendants charged with racketeering face as long as
20 years in prison if convicted, Bharara’s office said. Four
other men charged with mail and wire fraud face as long as 30
years while those charged with extortion face as long as 20
years in prison.  The cases are U.S. v. Franco, 13-cr-015, U.S. v. Giustra,
13-CR-014, and U.S. v. Lopez, 13-cr-015, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  