-- American Realty Capital Trust III Sued Over Acquisition
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-01-30T19:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/american-realty-capital-trust-iii-sued-over-acquisition.html
American Realty Capital Trust III
Inc. was sued by a shareholder in  New York  state court over a
proposed acquisition by American Realty Capital Properties Inc.
announced last month.  American Realty Capital Properties agreed to buy American
Realty Capital Trust III, or ARCT III, a non-traded real estate
investment trust, to expand its holdings of properties leased to
single tenants.  ARCT III shareholder Randell Quaal sued the New York-based
company, its directors and American Realty Capital Properties in
state court in Manhattan today, accusing them of failing to
maximize  shareholder value .  “The proposed transaction offers ARCT III shareholders
inadequate consideration for their shares, particularly in light
of rising commercial real-estate prices in the period following
the issuance of ARCT III shares, the high fees associated with
the purchase of non-traded REIT shares, and the definitive
proxy’s failure to provide shareholders with any comparative
premiums for similar acquisitions,” Quaal said in a court
filing.  Both companies are managed by affiliates of American Realty
Capital, a New York-based real estate investor.  American Realty
Capital Properties (ARCP)  started trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market in
September 2011. Nicholas Schorsch is chairman and chief
executive officer of each of the entities, according to
regulatory filings.  ‘Best Interests’  “The company will respond to the lawsuit in due course,”
American Realty Capital said in a statement. “Management
continues to believe that the proposed merger is in the
shareholders’ best interests, and it hopes that the transaction
will be approved.”  ARCT III shareholders may receive $12 a share in cash or
0.95 of a share of American Realty Capital Properties, equal to
$12.26 based on the Dec. 14 closing price, New York-based
American Realty Capital Properties said last month. The cash
consideration will be capped at 30 percent of American Realty
Capital Trust shares outstanding.  ARCT III had about 134 million common shares outstanding at
the end of September, according to a regulatory filing,
suggesting a deal value of about $1.6 billion.  The case is Quaal v. American Realty Capital Trust III
Inc., 650329/2013, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  