-- Man Group Backs Former Citadel Manager for New Japan Hedge Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-01-30T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/man-group-backs-former-citadel-manager-for-new-japan-hedge-fund.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the biggest publicly
traded hedge fund manager, is backing a new Japan-focused hedge
fund started by Toby Bartlett, a former manager at Citadel LLC
and Highbridge Capital Management LLC, according to a statement.  FRM Capital Advisors Ltd., under Man Group, will make an
unspecified “significant investment” in the fund run by  Hong
Kong ’s Arena Capital Management Ltd., the London-based provider
of startup capital to hedge funds said in the e-mailed statement.
The new fund bets on rising and falling Japanese stocks with a
focus on domestic demand industries.  It will be FRM Capital Advisors’s first investment since
its parent, London-based fund of hedge fund FRM Holdings Ltd.,
was  acquired  by Man in May, according to the statement. The size
of the fund, which trades pairs of related stocks without taking
a view on market direction, wasn’t disclosed.  The benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  has risen 11
straight weeks through Jan. 25 on anticipation that the new
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will introduce fiscal and monetary
policies to stimulate economic growth, resulting in a weaker yen
that will help boost exporters’ earnings.  “We see this both as an opportunity to be able to generate
alpha in what is traditionally a less researched market by hedge
funds where greater inefficiencies will allow managers that do
in depth analysis to create an edge,” Patric de Gentile Williams, the head of seeding at FRM, said of the investment in
the statement, referring to returns in excess of those of the
benchmarks.  Arena’s Chief Investment Officer Bartlett was an Asian
equities  fund manager  at Highbridge between 2009 and 2011,
focusing on consumer-related companies, according to the
statement. He worked for Citadel between 2007 and 2009 as a fund
manager running Japan-focused stock investments. He set up Arena
in May last year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  