-- Manchester United Increases English Premier League Lead
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-31T11:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/manchester-united-increases-premier-league-lead-to-seven-points.html
Manchester United beat Southampton
2-1 to increase its lead in English soccer’s Premier League,
while Reading moved out of the relegation zone with a late 2-2
draw against Chelsea.  Arsenal rallied for a 2-2 draw at home with Liverpool,
Everton defeated West Brom 2-1, Fulham beat West Ham 3-1 and
Tottenham tied 1-1 with Norwich in last night’s other matches.  Wayne Rooney  scored both goals at Old Trafford as
Manchester United extended its unbeaten run to 12 league games
and moved seven points ahead of defending champion Manchester
City.  “In my experience at the club, when we’re going for
championships there’s always a game where you say to yourself
‘we were a bit lucky,’ and I think this was one of those
nights,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told his club’s TV
channel. “Southampton in the second half gave the best
performance anyone’s given here this season.”  Jay Rodriguez put Southampton, which sits 16th in the 20-
team league, in front after three minutes as he picked up an
errant back pass from Michael Carrick and put a shot past David De Gea.  The lead lasted five minutes as Rooney scored off a pass
from Shinji Kagawa. United then took the lead in the 27th minute
as  Patrice Evra  headed  Robin van Persie ’s free kick toward
Rooney, who tapped it into the net.  Reading Comeback  Third-place Chelsea seemed ready to move within four points
of Manchester City thanks to goals from  Juan Mata  and Frank Lampard.  Adam Le Fondre then scored for Reading in the 87th minute
and struck again in the fifth minute of injury time when he
fired in a close-range shot after a free kick.  “If you’ve got Adam Le Fondre at your club, you always
have a chance,” Reading manager Brian McDermott told reporters.  The comeback lifted the Royals out of the three relegation
places at the bottom of the standings over Wigan and Aston Villa
on goal difference.  “We have to be more clinical and be more aware of
defending set pieces,” Chelsea coach Rafael Benitez said in
comments on the team’s website. “Everybody has the same feeling
-- we were in control until the last minute.”  Liverpool looked on the way to its second league win in 11
games against Arsenal as it took advantage of suspect defending
by the Gunners.  Luis Suarez  converted a slip by Bacary Sagna and a poor
clearance to give the Reds the lead in the fifth minute.  Jordan Henderson  then beat Per Mertesacker and  Andre Santos  for a score
that made it 2-0 in the 60th minute.  Speedy Recovery  Two goals in three minutes pulled Arsenal even. Olivier
Giroud headed in Jack Wilshere’s free kick in the 64th minute,
then laid off a pass for Theo Walcott, who fired a shot past
Pepe Reina.  “We were nervous from the start at the back but, overall,
we’ve shown great quality and tremendous spirit,” Arsenal
manager  Arsene Wenger  said in comments on his team’s website.  Arsenal defender  Kieran Gibbs  will miss three weeks after
leaving the game in the first half with a thigh strain, Wenger
said.  Leighton Baines scored twice in the first half as Everton
pulled within a point of Tottenham for fourth place and the
final Champions League spot.  Shane Long  had the goal for West
Brom, which has one win in its past 14 visits to Goodison Park.  “We’ve drawn a lot of games, so in the second half of the
season we’ve got to try to win more,” Everton manager David Moyes said in comments on his team’s website.  Gareth Bale’s goal in the 80th minute earned Tottenham a
point at Norwich, while Dimitar Berbatov and  Hugo Rodallega 
scored in Fulham’s home win over West Ham.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 