-- S&M, Cannibalism in Museum Show Provoke Backlash in Japan
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2013-01-30T19:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/manga-cannibalism-sparks-censorship-fury-in-japan.html
An exhibition of paintings showing
cannibalism and dismemberment is stirring a debate on art
censorship in  Japan , the home of violent manga comics.  Aida Makoto’s  work at  Tokyo ’s Mori Art Museum last night
provoked protests from a Japanese organization called People
Against Pornography and Sexual Violence.  The group wrote to museum director Nanjo Fumio demanding
that the images be removed because the museum was showing
sexual, misogynistic material.  “It’s not so bad compared to manga and anime on the
Internet,” Nanjo said in an interview. “This artist’s vision
is about our society, which is hidden and (which) often people
don’t look at.” The disturbing works encourage the viewer to
question violence in all its forms, not to celebrate it, he
said.  Makoto’s “Monument for Nothing” career retrospective
includes pictures of Japanese retirees playing croquet with
severed heads, a suicide device designed to always fail, a 
giant blender full of naked women and a kamikaze attack on
 New York  (painted before the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 
2001).  Hidden behind a black curtain is a section restricted to
people of 18 years old or more, where Makoto, 47, shows images
of dismembered women and of a multi headed monster having sex.
The latter echoes a 19th-century print by Hokusai.  Unlike the easily recognizable output of  Takashi Murakami 
or Yayoi Kusama, Makoto’s oeuvre contains so many different
styles that it’s impossible to label him.  Mishima Inspiration  He draws inspiration from comic books, prostitution
advertisements, the Marquis de Sade, and Yukio Mishima, the
Japanese writer who committed ritual seppuku (suicide by
disembowelment) in 1970.  One painting shows a farmer in traditional Japanese costume
harvesting  Louis Vuitton bags  from a muddy field. A Bonsai
sculpture has smiling heads in place of cherry blossoms, poking
fun at the country’s ’Kawaii’ culture of cuteness.  A folding screen depicts crows, some with human remains in
their beaks, perched on electric power poles positioned at
dangerous angles -- a post-apocalyptic tableau recalling a 16th-
century work by Hasegawa Tohaku.  Makoto’s supporters say he is no mere smut peddler.
Pornography is just one of the many devices he employs to
provoke the viewer to reexamine everyday aspects of Japanese
culture and see what lurks beneath the calm surface.  In the hands of a less skilled artist, the show would come
off as sophomoric and gratuitously vulgar. Yet the scenes are so
exquisitely rendered that, at first glance, one overlooks how
horrific they can be.  S&M images of nubile amputees done in acrylic on Japanese
paper (inspired by the true story of a serial killer) are
rendered in muted colors in the traditional nihong style. A
classical Japanese mountain landscape is, on close inspection,
made up of mounds of dead salarymen.  “Aida Makoto: Monument for Nothing” runs through March 31
at Mori Art Museum, Roppongi Hills Mori Tower, 6-10-1 Roppongi,
Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan. Information: +81-3-5777-8600 or
 http://www.mori.art.museum/eng/index.html .  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech,  Lance Esplund  on U.S. art shows,  Farah
Nayeri’s  London weekend and  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Tokyo at  fbalfour@bloomberg.net  
or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 