-- Antibiotics Cuts Deaths Among Severely Malnourished Kids
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-01-31T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/antibiotics-cuts-deaths-among-severely-malnourished-kids.html
Antibiotics added to nutritional
therapy helped aid recovery and prevent deaths among severely
malnourished children, findings that suggest routine use of the
drugs should be considered in kids who suffer from acute hunger.  Children with severe malnutrition who were given
amoxicillin had a 25 percent greater recovery rate and a 35
percent lower death rate than those who took a placebo,
according to the study published in the  New England Journal of
Medicine . Those given the antibiotic cefdinir, sold as Omnicef
by  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , had a 40 percent better recovery rate
and 45 percent reduced death rate.  More than 20 million children worldwide each year suffer
from severe acute malnutrition, leading to 1 million deaths each
year. While the recovery rate is between 85 percent and 90
percent, adding antibiotics may offer a cost effective approach
to improve health and survival, said study author  Indi Trehan .  “Childhood malnutrition remains the biggest, and
unfortunately, most under-recognized, health problem in the
world,” said Trehan, a clinical fellow in the Department of
Pediatrics at  Washington University in St. Louis  and a visiting
lecturer at the University of Malawi, in a Jan. 26 e-mail. “In
the end no matter what advances we make in HIV or malaria or
diarrhea, malnourished children will always be at the highest
risk of death from these diseases. In terms of bang-for-buck,
this is where we need to focus the most.”  Malnutrition Deaths  Malnutrition, defined by the  World Health Organization  as a
very low weight for height and severe wasting, accounts for
almost half of all child deaths under the age of 5 worldwide,
Trehan said.  Amoxicillin cost about $2.67 per child in the study, while
the cefdinir was $7.85. That expense can be lower if used on a
large scale, the authors said. That compares with  nutritional
therapy  that costs about $50 per child over the course of the
treatment.  The study included 2,767 Malawi children ages 6 months to 4
years who had  severe acute malnutrition . They were given
 amoxicillin ,  cefdinir  or placebo for seven days in addition to
nutritional therapy, which is a ready-to-use paste that doesn’t
need to be mixed with water.  Trehan said it’s unclear how the antibiotics work to
benefit these children. It could be that the children’s immune
systems were so compromised by the malnutrition that they were
unable to clear any simple infections on their own. By providing
them the antibiotics early on, they may have been protected from
typical childhood infections that came along during the study.  ‘Worthwhile’ Investment  “We hope that international aid organizations and local
health authorities will be able to incorporate the use of these
simple antibiotics,” Trehan said. “We recognize that this will
require additional financial and logistical resources, but the
dramatic decrease in the mortality rates seen in this study has
convinced us that this investment will be worthwhile for the
benefit it provides to child survival worldwide.”  Another possibility, he said, was maybe the children
already had an infection that “tipped them over the edge” into
severe malnutrition and the antibiotics treated that condition.  Trehan said in other studies it’s been shown that the
intestinal barriers of children who are malnourished are weak
and porous so intestinal bacteria may be able move into the
blood. It’s possible that the antibiotics might be helpful in
limiting the amount of infection and inflammation in the gut,
helping them to maximize absorption of the nutritional therapy.  Direct Link  There is also a particularly severe form of malnutrition,
called  kwashiorkor , which can’t be cured with nutrition alone,
and that scientists recently tied to a type of bacteria in the
gut. That finding, also by Trehan and researchers from
 Washington University  in  St. Louis , was published in the  journal
Science .  Researchers in the study looked at 317 pairs of Malawian
twins in the first three years of their life. Over the study,
half of the twin pairs were well nourished while in others, one
or both twins developed kwashiorkor. They then found that the
gut bacteria in those with the malnutrition who were given
nutritional therapy became more similar to that of well-
nourished children during treatment. When therapy was ended, the
bacteria reverted back.  Children with kwashiorkor suffer swelling, liver damage,
anorexia and skin ulcers.  New Evidence  To test the bacterial link to kwashiorkor, the researchers
then put fecal bacteria from three twin pairs into mice that
were germ free. The mice that had the bacteria from the twin
with kwashiorkor and ate the Malawian diet developed symptoms of
malnutrition. That provided the evidence of the link between the
gut bacteria and kwashiorkor.  “The gut mucosa is the battleground not surprisingly
between infection and malnutrition since it is the target of all
sorts of infections from the environment and it is the site of
the most immune activation,” Trehan said. But when it becomes
so inflamed due to this immune activation, the enteropathy that
develops puts the child at risk for malabsorption and further
infections. It is this vicious cycle that we would like to
continue to study.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  