-- Many Fortune 500 CEOs Support Cyber Standards, Rockefeller Says
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-01-30T15:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/many-fortune-500-ceos-support-cyber-standards-rockefeller-says.html
Many top executives of Fortune 500
companies generally support the use of legislation to boost U.S.
cybersecurity, including a program of voluntary standards for
companies, according to a report released by Senate Commerce
Committee Chairman  Jay Rockefeller .  Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat, sent a series of
questions in September to all Fortune 500 chief executive
officers, asking about their companies’ cybersecurity practices
and their views on the federal government’s role in computer
security. Cybersecurity legislation sponsored by Rockefeller
failed last year.  Among about 300 responses so far, many CEOs favor a
voluntary program of cybersecurity standards developed by the
federal government and companies along with increased sharing of
information on cyber threats, according to the report prepared
by Rockefeller’s Democratic committee staff. According to the
report, which didn’t disclose the names of the companies or
executives who responded, many companies expressed concern about
mandatory cybersecurity requirements  It characterized few executives as sharing the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce’s “vehement opposition” to government involvement.
The largest U.S. business lobby said voluntary standards
proposed in last year’s legislation would be a back door leading
to new government regulation of companies.  CEOs at financial and electric companies expressed concern
that new cybersecurity rules would disrupt their work with
existing regulators, while others stressed the need to protect
the confidentiality of information shared with the federal
government, the report said.  Executive Order  Obama is considering an executive order to implement some
of the provisions of the failed Senate bill, as Rockefeller and
other Senate Democratic committee leaders plan a new effort to
push cyber legislation. Rockefeller, who was first elected to
the Senate in 1984, has said he won’t seek re-election next
year.  The Senate Commerce Committee report comes follows a spate
of cyber attacks against online banking sites that accelerated
in September. The denial-of-service attacks targeting U.S.
banks, including  JP Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank of America Corp.,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , have
caused website disruptions for some customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  