-- Mapletree Said to Prepare $1.2 Billion IPO of Property Assets
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-01-30T03:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/mapletree-said-to-prepare-1-2-billion-ipo-of-property-assets.html
Mapletree Investments Pte plans to
raise more than S$1.5 billion ($1.2 billion) through the initial
public offering of a real estate investment trust backed by
assets in  Hong Kong  and China, said two people with knowledge of
the matter.  Mapletree Greater China Commercial Trust may start trading
in Singapore in March and will include the Festival Walk
shopping mall in Hong Kong and  Gateway Plaza  office complex in
Beijing, said the people, who asked not to be be identified as
the information is private.  The deal would mark the biggest IPO of a real estate
investment trust in Singapore, surpassing two earlier offerings
by Mapletree.  Mapletree Commercial Trust (MCT) , which raised $754
million in April 2011, and  Mapletree Industrial Trust (MINT) , which
completed a $714 million IPO in September 2010, are both up more
than 40 percent from their offer prices, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “As a capital manager, we are always looking at ways to
syndicate new private equity funds or REITs,” Mapletree said in
an e-mailed response to questions today. “We will update the
market as and when appropriate.”  Mapletree, the real estate unit of Temasek Holdings Pte,
 Singapore ’s investment company, is likely to own more than 30
percent of the REIT after the listing, one of the people said.
The International Financing Review reported on the IPO
yesterday.  Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. and HSBC Holdings Plc are managing the offer, the
people said.  Festival Walk  ARA Asset Management last year canceled the IPO of Dynasty
REIT, which would have been backed by commercial real estate in
China and was planning to raise as much as 5.4 billion  yuan 
($867 million).  Swire Pacific Ltd. (19) , a Hong Kong office and shopping mall
landlord, agreed to sell the Festival Walk shopping center to
Mapletree for HK$18.8 billion ($2.4 billion) in July 2011.
Beijing Gateway Plaza is an office complex consisting of two 25-
floor office towers, connected by a retail podium and basement
car parks.  Mapletree owned and managed S$19.9 billion of office,
logistics, industrial, retail and mixed-use properties across
 Asia  at the end of March 2012, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  