-- Armajaro Holdings Names Hutchinson Chairman From Next Week
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-01-30T17:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/armajaro-holdings-names-hutchinson-chairman-from-next-week-1-.html
Armajaro Holdings Ltd., owner of a
London-based hedge fund founded by Richard Gower and  Anthony Ward , named Michael Hutchinson as chairman.  The appointment is effective next week, the company said in
an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg today.
Hutchinson, 65, stepped down from the board of Armajaro Trading
Group Ltd., a unit of the holding firm that supplies sugar,
cocoa and coffee. The resignation happened yesterday, according
to a U.K.’s Companies House filing.  Hutchinson, who will replace interim chairman Ward at
Armajaro Holdings, will still chair the trading division’s risk
committee, Armajaro said. Hutchinson declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg today. Armajaro Holdings, founded in
1998, manages seven funds under the company’s asset management
arm, which include the CC+ Fund focused on cocoa and coffee and
the CZAR+ Fund that invests in sugar. Armajaro Asset Management
LLP started an equities fund last year.  Hutchinson is a former chairman of RBS Sempra Metals Ltd.,
a part of RBS Sempra Commodities LLP that was acquired by
JPMorgan & Chase Co. in 2010. He resigned as a director of bulk
commodities trader RB Metalloyd Ltd. on Nov. 7, according to a
separate Companies House filing. Metalloyd confirmed he is no
longer with the company.  He also served on the board of the London Metal Exchange
and was chairman of U.K. metals trader Wogen Plc.  Armajaro’s Commodities Fund returned 1.6 percent last year,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  