-- TARP Watchdog Spars With Treasury on Ally Financial Exit
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-01-30T15:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/tarp-watchdog-spars-with-treasury-on-ally-financial-exit.html
The U.S. Treasury and the watchdog
for its bailout program are sparring over whether the department
has an adequate exit plan for auto lender  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)   “While Treasury has noted that it has several options for
possible divestment, including a public or private sale of stock
or other sale of Ally assets, Treasury has not decided which of
these exit paths to take,” the special inspector general for
the Troubled Asset Relief Program said in a report today. “It
is essential that when the government finally exits Ally that it
do so forever.”  Timothy Massad, the Treasury’s assistant secretary for
financial stability, said in a  letter  to the inspector general
released yesterday that the exit plan involves “two strategic
initiatives” -- the reorganization of Residential Capital LLC,
the bankrupt mortgage company owned by Ally, and the sale of
Ally’s international operations.  Detroit-based Ally, which received a $17.2 billion bailout,
is 74 percent owned by the U.S. government. The special
inspector general report said Ally still owes U.S. taxpayers
$14.6 billion.  The debate over Ally is the latest in a series of spats
between the Treasury and the special inspector general, or
SIGTARP, the oversight body created as part of the TARP
bailouts. In a Jan. 28 report, the SIGTARP said the Treasury had
“failed to rein in excessive pay” at bailed-out  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Ally.  Quarterly Report  The quarterly report released today also showed that the
special inspector general’s office is still growing as the
bailout program winds down. SIGTARP had  173 employees  as of Dec.
31, up from 168 at the end of 2011 and 139 in 2010, when the
Treasury’s authority to initiate new TARP investments expired.  The watchdog’s headcount is about the same as the
Treasury’s TARP office, which had 171 employees on Dec. 31, down
from 209 a year earlier.  “The American people deserve transparency and critical
oversight into these programs all the way to the end,”  Christy Romero , the special inspector general, said in an interview last
week. “If there’s fraud or crime in TARP it’s going to take
some time to identify and stop that, and then investigate and
hold those people accountable. Criminals who commit fraud
against TARP are not going to get a get-out-of-jail-free card.”  Romero’s report today said while Treasury had described the
rescue “as necessary to save the  auto industry ,” Ally,
formerly known as GMAC Inc., used taxpayer-funded TARP money for
its subprime mortgage business. “Because it financed GM cars,
Treasury bailed out GMAC, one of the nation’s largest subprime
mortgage lenders,” Romero said in a statement.  ResCap Reorganization  ResCap filed for reorganization in May. An examiner is due
to issue a report in April.  “Ally is highly confident in its ability to repay the
remaining  U.S. Treasury  investment in full,” Ally spokeswoman
Gina Proia said in an e-mailed statement. “We have taken a
number of steps in 2012 designed to best position the company to
exit TARP, and there has been significant progress thus far.”  The Treasury is seeking to sell its remaining shares in GM
in the next 12 to 15 months to end its ownership in the
automaker, which received $50 billion in taxpayer money in a
bailout that began in 2009.  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimated in October that
TARP, which stabilized banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of
America Corp.  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , would ultimately cost
taxpayers $24 billion, less than the $109 billion projected in
March 2010.  Congress authorized $700 billion for the financial rescue
in October 2008, and the bill was signed into law by President
 George W. Bush . About $418 billion of the $700 billion has been
used, and the Treasury has recovered $389 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  