-- Las Vegas Welcomes Verdi’s Hunchback at Met: Review
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2013-01-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/las-vegas-welcomes-verdi-s-hunchback-at-met-review.html
Rigoletto sings his last duet
sitting on the bumper of a finned Cadillac. His dying daughter
Gilda is in the boot, one arm dangling near the parking lights.  It’s impossible not to like the new production by  Michael
Mayer  that opened Monday at the  Metropolitan Opera . It’s wildly
entertaining, inventive, strangely funny and yet also deeply
sad.  As you may recall, Verdi’s hunchbacked jester usually drags
his hump through Renaissance Mantua, where he serves a decadent
duke and his repulsive courtiers.  Mayer -- who made his name with “Spring Awakening,” a
loud musical about creepy teens in  Germany  -- relocates the
galoot into the salons of  Las Vegas , anno 1960.  Here he’s got just a vestigial little bump any chiropractor
could fix and a costume distantly suggesting more formal periods
when jesters wore tights and caps with bells.  When Rigoletto first shuffles into view at the duke's
casino, his outfit includes green pants, a mournful sweater with
an ace of diamonds motif and red socks. Later, he adds a worn
trench coat.  Surprisingly, nothing at all is lost of the torment, rage
and wrenching love that propels Verdi’s 1851 opera from its
festive beginnings to its horrifying, bitter end.  Mayer, in his debut at the Met, captures both the emotional
depth and surface glitter in an audacious staging that heightens
Verdi’s grand ensemble scenes and the private moments when the
jester sits down to reminisce about the improbable love he once
experienced with Gilda’s mother.  Sex Addicts  I was hooked on the show from the moment the curtain rose
on a shiny set framed by two elevators and illuminated by neon
signs. Backed up by feathery chorus girls, the duke grabs a
microphone and sings one of his famous arias, “Questa o
Quella” (“This one or that one, I don’t care”).  Bad people, sad people, sycophants and sex addicts travel
easily from one era to the next: That’s why opera survives. But
it helps when a director has such inventive collaborators, all
new to the Met: Susan Hilferty (costumes), Christine Jones
(sets), Kevin Adams (lights) and Steven Hoggett (choreography).  Add to them the clever duo of Michael Panayos and Paul
Cremo, who updated the surtitles to reference penthouses,
casinos and seedy nightclubs. “Your movie star looks really
light up the place,” is not a line Verdi would recognize.  Amusing touches abound.  I laughed out loud as Monterone, the old guy who curses
Rigoletto for making fun of him, stalked off in the robes of an
Arab sheik. Then there’s the gaudy Egyptian sarcophagus in which
Gilda is secreted from her hideaway apartment to the duke’s
aerie.  Pink Diary  Gilda! Mia Gilda! Clutching a pink diary, soaring into the
vocal stratosphere, Diana Damrau created a touchingly vulnerable
portrait of a clueless, sweetly slow girl with plump arms that
stick out like sausages from her unbecoming dress. You know the
doting Humpie bought it for her.  Zeljko Lucic captured Rigoletto’s many sides with his
expressive baritone and plain, anguished face. Piotr Beczala was
a perfect duke, singing with style and the smiling assurance of
a guy who knows he looks good in a dinner jacket.  His brief experiment with pole dancing was another
highlight.  Even smaller roles were vividly etched. Stefan Kocan was a
malevolently appealing Sparafucile.  “I’m gonna stuff your dreamboat into a sack and sink him
in the river,” he sings to his curvy sister Maddalena (Oksana
Volkova).  And it’s not often that you remember Gilda’s guardian.
Maria Zifchak turned Giovanna into a study in boredom, rolling
her eyes and smoking. She ends up dead in the elevator, in a
nice bit of invention.  All along, conductor Michele Mariotti combined a bustling
pace with a feel for Verdi’s arching melodies.  The audience whooped approval at the end.  “Rigoletto” plays in repertory through May 1 at the
 Metropolitan Opera  House,  Lincoln Center . Information: +1-212-
362-6000;  http://www.metoperafamily.org .  Production sponsors are the Hermione Foundation, Laura
Sloate and Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Montrone.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and entertainment section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on TV and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net . 