-- Las Vegas Sands Rises as Macau Casino Results Beat Forecasts
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-01-31T21:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/las-vegas-sands-sales-beat-analysts-estimates-on-macau-gains.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the casino
company led by billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , rose as much as 6.6
percent after posting faster-than-expected growth in Macau.  Las Vegas Sands climbed 7.2 percent to $55.25 at the close
in  New York , the biggest gain since October. The company
reported yesterday that fourth-quarter revenue in Macau rose 48
percent to $1.97 billion.  “They continue to outperform the market in  China ,” said
Chad Mollman, a  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  analyst who recommends the
stock. “Their new Sands Cotai Central is taking market share
from casinos on the Macau peninsula, which is driving the
outperformance.”  A pickup in gambling in Macau, the company’s largest
market, countered sluggish results for the industry in  Nevada ,
where  Las Vegas  Sands operates the Venetian and Palazzo resorts,
and another drop in Singapore. While sales rose for the company
in Macau, revenue at the Marina Bay Sands in Singapore fell 11
percent after sliding 21 percent the previous three months.  Fourth-quarter revenue, including results from the U.S.,
gained 21 percent to $3.08 billion, the Las Vegas-based company
said yesterday in a  statement , beating the $3.03 billion average
of 22 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profit of 54
cents excluding items missed the 60-cent average of  estimates ,
on weaker table winnings in Singapore and Las Vegas.  Fourth Quarter  Fourth-quarter net income totaled $434.8 million, or 53
cents a share, little changed from $435.3 million, or 39 cents,
a year earlier, the company said.  The stock added 8 percent last year.  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the
company’s majority-owned Macau subsidiary, rose 0.3 percent to
HK$39.10 in Hong Kong.  Sands China posted a 52 percent jump in fourth-quarter
profit as its newest resort drew more Chinese visitors. Net
income for the Hong Kong-listed unit rose to $467 million from
$306.7 million a year ago, according to yesterday’s statement.  Las Vegas Sands also raised its quarterly dividend by 40
percent to 35 cents a share, from 25 cents previously. In
November the company declared a $2.75 special dividend that
netted Adelson, the largest shareholder, about $1.2 billion.  On a conference call, Adelson, the company’s chairman and
chief executive officer, reiterated plans to sell Sands’ Asian
shopping malls, which he said would be worth as much as $10
billion. The company may wait until additional retail projects
are completed, he said.  Cotai Expansion  Sands has started construction on a $2.6 billion Paris-
themed resort on the Cotai Strip in  Macau . It’s scheduled to
open in late 2015. The company has also requested government
approval for a 1,500-room hotel addition in Singapore, Adelson
said on the call.  Adelson also said he isn’t pursuing projects in the U.S.
The company is seeking a buyer for its Bethlehem, Pennsylvania,
casino people with knowledge of the situation said this month.  “We are of the opinion that a lot of the U.S. markets have
been oversaturated or are about to be oversaturated,” Adelson
said. “We don’t want to compete with the good job that Caesars
is doing in the riverboat and the small casino market. We’re the
experts in integrated resorts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  