-- ASX Suspended Intraday Stock Auctions Due to System Clash
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-01-30T03:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/asx-suspended-intraday-stock-auctions-due-to-system-clash.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX)  suspended a trial of
intraday stock auctions for some less actively-traded companies
after a system error caused it to fail on the first day, the
operator of  Australia ’s biggest exchange said.  The first auction took place at noon yesterday, while the
second, scheduled for 2 p.m., did not because of a system clash
with the opening of some warrants, Kristen Kaus, a spokeswoman
for ASX Ltd. said in an e-mail today. The trial, which started
yesterday and was intended to last three months, has been
suspended until further notice. There is no time frame to
restart the auctions, Kaus said.  “The complication arose due to timing of the intra-day
auction, which was to occur at exactly the same time as the
opening for warrants,” Kaus said. “When the two instructions
entered the system at the same time, as was the case yesterday,
the second instruction was not able to execute, so the 2pm
intraday auction did not occur.”  The warrants traded without incident and the stocks in the
trial continued trading as usual, Kaus said. The auctions,
intended to narrow spreads by bringing buyers and sellers
together at a specific time, are part of several reforms ASX has
made to its trading platform since Chi-X Australia Pty became
its first competitor in 2011. ASX had planned to host for about
37 companies including  Aditya Birla Minerals Ltd. (ABY)  and  Argo
Investments Ltd. (ARG)   “Our technicians are currently working on a solution to be
implemented as soon as possible,” Kaus said.  Stock auctions use computer algorithms to match as many
buyers and sellers of stocks at a specific time in the same way
opening and closing prices are determined at the exchange.  The London Stock Exchange already holds intra-day auctions
for less-traded stocks, hosting four a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  