-- Gillard Declares Sept. 14 Election as Labor Trails in Polls
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-30T06:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/australia-s-federal-election-to-be-held-sept-14-gillard-says.html
Prime Minister Julia Gillard set
Australia’s election for Sept. 14, the longest advance notice in
at least 60 years, as her minority Labor government seeks to
close the gap in opinion polls with the opposition.  Parliament will be dissolved on Aug. 12 for a monthlong
campaign, Gillard told reporters in Canberra today, breaking
with convention that usually sees leaders give just a few weeks
notice. Setting the date “gives shape and order to the year and
enables it to be one not of fevered campaigning but of cool,
reasoned deliberation,” she said.  “This is unprecedented,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a
political analyst at  Melbourne ’s Monash University. “Prime
ministers traditionally keep their cards close to their chest on
election dates as part of a tactic to deny the opposition leader
equal standing in the contest.”  Gillard’s government has trailed in opinion polls for more
than 20 months even as the nation entered its third recession-
free decade that’s yielded contained inflation, low unemployment
and higher growth than other developed economies. Liberal-
National leader Tony Abbott, who trails Australia’s first female
prime minister in personal ratings, is pledging to scrap taxes
on mining profits and the government’s price on carbon emissions
if his coalition wins office.  Best Gauge  Labor rose 3 percentage points to 49 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, with the coalition falling 3 points to 51
percent, according to a Newspoll survey published in the
Australian newspaper on Jan. 15. The measure is the best gauge
of which major party is likely to win the seats required to form
a government.  “The coalition is ready” for the election, Abbott, 55,
told reporters in Canberra. “This election will be about trust.
Who do you trust to reduce cost of living pressures, who do you
trust to boost small business and job security, and who do you
trust to secure our borders?”  The more than seven-month run up to the election is the
most in six decades of records, according to Evan Ekin-Smyth, a
Canberra-based spokesman for the Australian Electoral
Commission, who was continuing to check the archives.  According to Australian law, an election must be held by
Nov. 30.  Addressing the National Press Club in Canberra in her first
major political address of the year, Gillard, 51, said she was
setting the date “not to start the nation’s longest election
campaign.”  “Quite the opposite,” she said. “It should be clear to
all which are the days of governing and which are the days of
campaigning. Announcing the election date now enables
individuals and business, investors and consumers to plan their
year.”  Investor Optimism  The benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  maintained gains after the
announcement, its 10th day of increases. The Australian dollar
traded at $1.0470 as of 5:20 p.m. in Sydney. The nation’s
benchmark  10-year bond  yielded 3.50 percent after earlier
touching 3.53 percent, the highest since May 4.  “It certainly breaks with tradition,” said Matthew Sherwood, head of markets research at Perpetual Investment,
which manages about $25 billion in Sydney. “It puts a boundary
on when minority government will end, which is probably a good
thing. Investors might be a bit more optimistic that such an
election, regardless of who wins, will mean the end to minority
government.”  Gillard has been criticized by the opposition after she
reneged on a 2010 election pledge not to introduce a carbon tax
and backpedaled last month on a promise to deliver a budget
surplus this year as weaker growth and a strong local currency
curb tax receipts.  Surging Currency  The government has contended with a local currency that
surged 21 percent in the 31 months since Gillard ousted
predecessor Kevin Rudd as prime minister. The currency’s longest
stretch above parity with the U.S. dollar has made it more
difficult for manufacturers to compete and resulted in job
losses among workers who form Labor’s traditional support base.  Gillard has overseen a two-speed economy, where mining
regions in the north and west boom while manufacturers,
retailers and builders in the south and east struggle.  Hiring strength in mining has helped compensate for
weakness in other industries. The nation’s unemployment rate, at
5.4 percent, is less than half the euro-area level and lower
than the U.S.’s 7.8 percent.  Australia ’s consumer price index
gained 0.2 percent last quarter, half the level forecast by
economists, as food and health care costs declined.  Inflation, Unemployment  Contained inflation and low unemployment allowed the
central bank to reduce borrowing costs by 1.75 percentage points
since Nov. 1, 2011, to a half-century low of 3 percent. Policy
makers are aiming to revive industries including housing
construction ahead of a plateau in mining investment this year.  “Labor has taken the first move of advantage,” said
Andrew Hughes, who conducts political-marketing research at the
Australian National University in Canberra and is predicting a
narrow win for the coalition. “It’s potentially a masterstroke,
but first Gillard has to win back Labor’s market share, which
won’t be easy as there’s a lot of disaffected voters who see her
as untrustworthy. It’s a long campaign and voters are bound to
become disengaged from the parties’ messages.”  Australia is the largest developed economy to enforce
compulsory voting, according to the Australian Electoral
Commission’s website and International Monetary Fund data. It
became mandatory to cast a ballot in federal elections in 1924,
according to the AEC, and fines of as much as A$50 may be
imposed for non-compliance.  Sportsbet, which describes itself as Australia’s largest
online bookmaker by revenue, is offering to return A$1.25 on
every A$1 winning bet should the coalition gain power. Labor is
the outsider, paying A$3.75.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  