-- Australian Bladders Become New Normal for Wine Exports
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-01-30T21:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/australian-bladders-become-new-normal-for-wine-exports.html
Hardys became the U.K.’s best-
selling Australian wine by selling bottles for as little as 3.40
pounds ($5) in the face of a rising domestic currency. To do
that and still earn a profit, the winemaker turned to plastic
bags -- 24,000-liter plastic bags.  Accolade Wines, the maker of Hardys, pared shipping costs
that can amount to as much as $3 a case by eliminating glass
bottles and shipping the alcohol in bladders. After the 10,000
mile (16,000 kilometers) journey, the wine is bottled at a plant
next to a  scrap merchant  a two-hour drive from  London .  Australia’s  A$5.5 billion  ($5.8 billion) wine industry is
now moving more than half its overseas shipments in bulk, making
the 40-day journey to  Europe  in bladders big enough to fill
32,000 bottles. It’s reshaping logistics and the flow of wine
between the country, the largest exporter outside of Europe, and
the U.K., the biggest net importer.  “We don’t ship glass around the world, we ship wine,”
Richard Lloyd, global manufacturing director for Accolade, said
by e-mail.  The Australian dollar has been the strongest performing
major currency against both the British pound and  U.S. dollar 
over the last four years. Options traders expect just a one-in-
ten chance that the Aussie will return to its 2009 levels
against either currency this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Higher Capacity  About 30 shipping containers are trucked every day to
Accolade’s plant in Avonmouth near the English city of Bristol.
 Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. (TWE)  brands and  Pernod Ricard SA (RI) ’s Jacob’s
Creek are also being shipped in bulk, while Casella Wines Pty.,
maker of the third-best selling U.S. wine label Yellow Tail, may
move to bulk exports to cut costs.  Sea transport costs are typically based on volume, so
filling a shipping container with cases of low-end wine wastes
space on packaging, said Tony Woodborne, manager of  Flexibulk
Logistics Pty. , a Sydney-based wine freight company.  “You lose a third of your volume to bottle and carton,”
he said. While a 20-foot container accommodates about 9,900
liters of bottled wine, a bladder holds 24,000 liters and costs
little more to transport, he said.  Sending an ordinary 20-foot container of bottled wine from
 South Australia , the nation’s biggest  wine producing state ,
costs about $3,300 to $3,400, said Ben Mislov, sales manager for
Adelaide-based transport company JF Hillebrand Group AG.  While adding the cost of using a large bladder lifts the
price to about $4,000, the capacity is doubled. The greater mass
of wine also stays cooler during a typical 40-day journey,
reducing the need for refrigeration that can increase the
container rate to $5,000, he said.  Wolf Blass  Accolade, owned by Champ Private Equity, bottles its own
Banrock Station and Hardys ranges at the 1.6-million bottle-a-
day Avonmouth plant, along with the Rosemount, Lindeman’s and
Wolf Blass labels owned by Treasury, Australia’s biggest
publicly traded winemaker. Filling 12.5 million cases with
Australian wine each year, the plant is bigger than any facility
in its home country.  Australia ’s shipments of so-called bulk wine have grown
more than six-fold over the past decade, and overtook bottled
exports for the first time last year with 54 percent of the
total, according to data from Wine Australia, a government-
backed industry body. Four out of five bottles the country sells
in U.K. stores are now shipped as bulk, and two out of five in
the U.S.  Chile, the second-largest New World exporter according to
the  International Organisation of Vine and Wine , shipped about
 36 percent  of its overseas sales in bulk in the first six months
of last year, according to wine brokers Ciatti Co.  Chile, New Zealand  The U.S. and  South Africa , the third- and fourth-largest
exporters outside of Europe, also shipped about half their wine
as bulk in 2010 and 2011, according to reports by the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  and  Wines of South Africa , an industry
body.  About 35 percent of  New Zealand ’s wine exports were made in
bulk during 2012, according to  New Zealand Winegrowers , a
government-backed industry body.  The container bladders are oversized versions of the  bag-
in-a-box  packaging pioneered in 1965 by Australian producer
 Angove’s , a family winery three hours east of Accolade’s
Adelaide head office.  Paint, Herbicide  As well as wine, the giant bags can be used to transport
fruit juice concentrates, paint, herbicides and drinking water,
according to the  website  of Flexitank, a Melbourne-based
supplier.  While the tanks have been around since the 1980s,
improvements to their construction and the plastic membranes
used have reduced the risk of spoilage, according to the  Waste
and Resources Action Programme , a U.K. government-backed
packaging body. That makes long-distance bulk shipments as
viable as the short-range tanker exports common between European
countries.  Australian wine producers have been forced to innovate to
win back profit margins on exports hit by the surging value of
the currency and a global glut of wine. Shipping in bottles can
add $3 a case, or 25 cents per bottle, to costs, according to
Rabobank International.  Closed Furnaces  Owens-Illinois Inc. (OI) , the world’s largest bottle-maker,
closed down three of its 12 Australian glass furnaces, citing
the move to bulk wine, the company said last year.  Melbourne-based  Amcor Ltd. (AMC) , the world’s biggest packaging
company, said revenue from its glass-packaging business fell 34
percent last year and has dropped a forecast that a new bottle
furnace would be needed every three years.  Penrice Soda Holdings
Ltd. (PSH)  blamed the growth of bulk wine for its decision Jan. 18 to
stop producing the soda ash used in glassmaking.  While bulk shipping is popular for lower-priced wines, it
probably won’t be adopted for prestige labels, said Peter Booth,
South Australia manager of Adelaide-based freight company Booth
Transport Pty.  “Penfolds Grange in a bladder?” he said, referring to
Treasury’s most prestigious label, which has sold for as much as
 A$60,000 a bottle  at auction. “I can’t imagine that ever
happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  