-- Long Campaign Looms on Gillard’s Australia Election Surprise
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-31T03:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/australia-campaign-set-as-gillard-bets-on-unease-with-abbott.html
Australia  is set for its longest
election campaign, with Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  counting on
a record of growth and low unemployment to overcome a shortfall
in support for her minority Labor government since March 2011.  Gillard, 51, yesterday fixed the vote for the lower house
of parliament and half the Senate for Sept. 14, 11 weeks before
it had to be held. While incumbents typically set ballots weeks
before the date, Gillard probably opted for a prolonged contest
to focus voter attention on the character of opposition head
 Tony Abbott , who she leads in polls as preferred prime minister.  “Labor believes the harder people look at Abbott, the less
they’ll like him, and setting an election will focus people’s
minds” on him, said Zareh Ghazarian, a politics lecturer at
 Monash University  in  Melbourne . “The government has done
remarkably well with the economy, but its achievements have been
drowned out. Some of it comes back to Abbott’s ability to muddy
any sort of positive message the government has put out.”  At stake is the legacy of taxes on carbon and mining
profits that Abbott vows to scrap, along with a strengthening in
worker rights. Another potential fault line in the contest:
Abbott’s championing of “family” values against the unmarried,
childless prime minister, who has labeled him a sexist and
misogynist.  Public Support  While the government has trailed in polls for more than 20
months, its performance has improved since the implementation of
the carbon legislation July 1, after Abbott’s predictions of the
measure creating a “ wrecking ball ” for growth failed to bear
out. Gross domestic product will rise 3 percent this year,
compared with 1.54 percent for advanced economies as a group,
according to October forecasts from the  International Monetary
Fund .  Hours after Gillard announced the date, Australia’s
 benchmark stock index  closed higher for a 10th day, capping its
longest winning streak since October 2003 and underscoring
rising confidence in the economic outlook as demand in China,
Australia’s biggest export destination, strengthens.  Labor rose 3 percentage points to 49 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, with Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition
falling 3 points to 51 percent, according to a Newspoll survey
published Jan. 15. The measure is the best gauge of which major
party is likely to win the seats required to form a government.  On the question of who would make the better prime
minister, Gillard extended her lead over Abbott by 3 points to
45 percent compared with his 33 percent.  Rate Cuts  Helping the administration is the central bank’s half-
century low benchmark  interest rate , in a nation where most
mortgage borrowers have adjustable rates. The sixth rate cut in
14 months in December also helped  business sentiment  jump by the
most in more than a decade, a private report showed this week.  Gillard has highlighted her government’s commitment to
bring back a fiscal surplus as creating room for  Reserve Bank  of
Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  to lower borrowing costs.  While Stevens’s term at the RBA’s helm expires Sept. 17,
days after the election, the government has the power to either
reappoint him or name a successor three months before his time
is up. Under government  conventions , the administration will
refrain from making an appointment during a caretaker period
that begins Aug. 12.  Rate Cuts  The government should hold off announcing the next head of
the central bank until after the election, opposition finance
spokesman Andrew Robb said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television from Canberra today.  “We’re in uncharted waters,” Robb said. “We should work
through some of these issues because normally these things in an
election campaign would be put off until there is clarity about
who is going to form the next government. That should apply in
this case as well.”  For all the economic stability that Australia has enjoyed
compared with a crisis-hit Europe, deflationary Japan or post
housing-collapse U.S., the government hasn’t pulled ahead in
opinion polls.  One complication is the nation’s strong currency, which has
surged 21 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the 31 months since
Gillard ousted predecessor  Kevin Rudd  as prime minister. The
gains have hurt tourism and manufacturing, contributing to the
worst back-to-back years of job growth since the Asian financial
crisis, with much of the drag among workers who form Labor’s
traditional support base.  Plan Coming  Gillard yesterday said the Aussie’s strength needs to be
addressed. In contrast with Switzerland or Japan, the nation has
avoided a policy of weakening its  exchange rate  to aid export
competitiveness.  “We have to have a plan which can withstand the
possibility of a persistently strong dollar into the future, not
simply rely on the economic assumption that our dollar will
fall,” Gillard said in yesterday’s Canberra press conference,
without elaborating.  Insecurity arising from the high Australian dollar, falling
productivity growth and an expected “growth hole” in the
nation’s investment pipeline needs to be addressed in the
election, Innes Willox, chief executive of the Australian
Industry Group, the nation’s top business lobbying group, said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “Australia now faces an eight-month election campaign
which will mean that some significant investment decisions by
business will be put on hold,” Willox said.  Policy Reversal  Gillard’s re-election chances have been undermined by
coalition attacks on her integrity linked to her reneging on a
pledge not to implement a carbon tax, in return for support from
the Australian Greens party that she needed to form a
government. Three months after winning the prime minister’s job
in a party coup against Rudd in June 2010, Gillard assembled a
minority government with support from the Greens and
independents.  A former labor lawyer, the nation’s first female prime
minister in 2010 ran against an opposition leader who repeatedly
told voters he was a supporter of family values. In one speech,
he said “the most conservative instinct of all” is to have a
family. Gillard has faced what she said in a September 2011
interview was a nation with a “blokey” culture.  Gillard accused Abbott of “repulsive double standards when
it comes to misogyny and sexism,” last year in parliament, and
said he had been “catcalling across this table at me as I sit
here as prime minister.” She produced quotes she attributed to
Abbott that she said offended her “on behalf of the women of
Australia.”  Spousal Support  A former journalist and amateur boxer who studied for the
priesthood, Abbott was born in  London  to Australian expatriate
parents. In the past year, the Sydneysider Catholic has been
interviewed several times with his wife Margie, who has
highlighted his relationship with his three daughters and
defended him against Gillard’s claims of misogyny.  Abbott, 55, is a Rhodes Scholar who canceled some of his
annual summer holidays this month to fulfill his commitments as
a volunteer firefighter, battling blazes that destroyed homes
and threatened lives on Australia’s east coast.  The opposition chief won the party leadership in December
2009 on opposing a carbon emissions trading system, which his
predecessor  Malcolm Turnbull  had supported for Australia, the
developed world’s biggest polluter of  greenhouse gases  per
capita. Today Abbott reiterated that he would be prepared to
call a double dissolution election should he win power in
September and his bid to dismantle the carbon tax be blocked in
the Senate.  Immigration Policy  “The coming election will be a referendum on the carbon
tax,” Abbott said in a speech in Canberra today. “Above all,
it will be a referendum on economic management because stronger
economic growth is what government has to deliver.”  Abbott says the government’s immigration policy contributed
to a surge in asylum seekers. More than 600 refugees have
drowned in the waters between Indonesia and Australia in the
past three years, according to a government-commissioned report.
His opposition coalition has also vowed to cut public sector
jobs, create a “Green Army” to improve the environment, and
increase payments to new parents.  “He’s got vague promises out there frankly that don’t add
up,” Anthony Albanese, who manages the government’s affairs in
the lower house of parliament, told Australian Broadcasting
Corp. radio today. “He’s been able to get away without proper
scrutiny and this will, I think, change that game.”  ‘Pre-Emptive Strike’  Australian Electoral Commission records show the federal
campaign will be the longest according to data going back to
1951.  “Gillard’s pre-emptive strike makes her look like a
leader,” said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts political-marketing
research at the  Australian National University  in Canberra and
is predicting a narrow win for the coalition. “Polls show Labor
is still in trouble so it should use this year to sell its
positive economic record and differentiate itself against
Abbott, known to some voters for his ‘Mr. Negative’ image.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  