-- Aaron Rodgers Clashes With Flo in Insurance ‘Arms Race’
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-01-30T15:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/auto-insurers-waste-funds-in-6-billion-marketing-race.html
U.S. auto insurers, a group that has
enlisted Hollywood actors and professional athletes to pitch
their coverage, failed to boost sales even after spending
billions of dollars on advertisements, McKinsey & Co. said.  The industry has been in a “marketing arms race” during
the past decade, boosting spending 15 percent a year to almost
$6 billion in 2011, the management-consulting firm said in a
report released today. Sales have been stagnant for the group
over 10 years and more than half of the advertising outlay has
come from insurers that didn’t gain market share, McKinsey said.  Progressive Corp. (PGR)  and  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Geico unit
added customers by advertising low prices. That pitch may not be
the most effective for all insurers as they compete for part of
a mature market, said Tanguy Catlin, a partner in McKinsey’s
insurance practice and a co-author of the report.  “When Nike advertises shoes, people can buy more shoes,”
he said in a phone interview. Spending more on auto insurance
marketing doesn’t necessarily translate into higher sales,
because consumers “don’t buy multiple insurance policies.”  Geico led insurers in ad spending in 2011 with an outlay of
almost $1 billion, according to  data  compiled by SNL Financial.
The insurer’s spots have featured a talking pig and comedian
Gallagher to highlight savings customers can realize by
switching to its policies.  State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the largest
U.S. auto insurer, has used sports stars such as Green Bay
Packers quarterback  Aaron Rodgers  in ads. It was second with
more than $800 million in spending in 2011.  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  was
third, followed by Progressive and Farmers Insurance, which has
a management relationship with Zurich Insurance Group AG.  Top Five  That spending has helped the top five advertisers pull away
“in terms of brand awareness” from rivals including Travelers
Cos. and Liberty Mutual Holding Co., McKinsey said. Buying more
ads may not be the best strategy for all insurers, since only
about 30 percent of policyholders focus on the cost of coverage.  “The other 70 percent -- the ‘silent majority’ of
policyholders -- appears to be difficult to reach,” the authors
wrote in the report. “This is likely because they are
unresponsive to marketing messages based solely around price.”  Auto insurers have been bolstering marketing teams to
compete. Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate hired Sanjay Gupta
from Ally Financial Inc. as chief marketing officer last year as
the insurer seeks to build Esurance, a unit that sells policies
direct to consumers over the Internet.  Krasinski, Haysbert  Allstate hired actor John Krasinski as a pitchman for
Esurance TV spots and radio ads that began airing in 2011. 
Allstate campaigns with Dennis Haysbert and actor Dean Winters, 
who plays a character named Mayhem, promote the namesake brand.  Progressive, known for its spunky saleswoman Flo, spent
$536 million on ads in 2011, SNL Financial data show. The
Mayfield Village, Ohio-based insurer hired Jeff Charney from
Aflac Inc. in 2010 to be chief marketing officer.  “We’re not going to outspend anybody, but we definitely
are going to out-create people,” Charney said at an investor
presentation in June 2011, referring to the company’s strategy
for online advertising.  The surging cost of winning new customers has made
retaining policyholders even more important, McKinsey said.
Insurers can benefit if they tailor messages to specific
customer groups as carriers have done in the U.K. by developing
so-called micro-brands, according to the report.  “Auto-insurance shoppers are not as single-minded as the
advertising aimed at attracting them would indicate,” the
authors said. “There are multiple segments, and the consumers
in each of these segments are driven by different needs and
preferences, and respond to distinct messages at distinct touch
points in their shopping journey.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  