-- Avery Dennison Gains on Office-Division Sale: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-01-30T21:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/avery-dennison-gains-on-office-division-sale-los-angeles-mover.html
Avery Dennison  Corp. closed at the
highest price since July 2011 after reporting quarterly profit
that beat analysts’ estimates and agreeing to a deal for its
office products unit that  3M Co. (MMM)  scrapped a bid for in October.  Avery Dennison will sell the office products business and
its label-converting unit to  CCL Industries Inc. (CCL/B)  for $500
million in cash, according to a statement today. Separately, the
Pasadena, California-based company reported fourth-quarter
profit excluding some items of 54 cents a share, topping the 49-
cent average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The deal with CCL Industries ends Avery Dennison’s search
for a buyer for the office-products unit, which sells labels,
binders and writing instruments with brands such as Hi-Liters
and Marks-A-Lot markers. Avery Dennison said it will use the net
proceeds from the sale for share repurchases and an additional
pension contribution.  Avery Dennison “continues to deliver on their turnaround,
supported by a strong operational focus and return of  cash flow 
to shareholders,”  Ghansham Panjabi , a Roseland, New Jersey-
based analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co., wrote in a note today.
The sale of the units may help buoy shares, said Panjabi, who
rates the stock neutral, the equivalent of hold.  Avery Dennison  surged  6.4 percent to $38.44 in New York,
the highest level in more than 18 months. The shares rose 22
percent last year compared with a 13 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Antitrust Concern  3M abandoned a $550 million offer for the office products
business last year after the U.S. Justice Department opposed the
transaction because of antitrust concerns. A takeover would have
given  St. Paul , Minnesota-based 3M more than 80 percent of the
U.S. market for labels and sticky notes, the agency said.  The office product and label-converting divisions had
combined revenue of about $910 million in 2012, Avery Dennison
said. A syndicate of banks has committed to provide debt
financing to complete the deal, Toronto-based CCL Industries
said today in a separate statement.  The purchase is the largest transaction in CCL Industries’
history, Chief Executive Officer Geoffrey Martin said. The deal
is expected to close by mid-2013 and add to earnings in 2014.  CCL Industries advanced 16 percent to C$53.25 in Toronto,
the biggest jump since at least 1988. The shares rose 37 percent
last year.  Avery Dennison’s sales for the fourth quarter rose 5.3
percent to $1.53 billion. Analysts projected $1.46 billion, on
average.  Earnings in 2013 excluding restructuring costs and other
items will be $2.40 to $2.80 a share, the company said. Analysts
 projected  $2.40, on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  