-- Lawyer Admits Helping Ponzi Schemer’s Wife Hide Jewlery
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-01-30T21:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/lawyer-admits-helping-ponzi-schemer-s-wife-hide-jewlery.html
A  Florida  attorney who represented
the wife of convicted Ponzi schemer Scott Rothstein pleaded
guilty to conspiring to help her hide expensive jewelry from the
Internal Revenue Service.  Scott Saidel, 45, admitted today in federal court in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida, that he conspired to help Kimberly
Rothstein sell jewelry, including a 12-carat diamond that she
was supposed to turn over to federal authorities after her
husband’s $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme collapsed in November 2009.  “He has accepted responsibility for his actions,”
Saidel’s attorney, Tama Kudman, said outside of court after the
hearing.  The Ponzi scheme orchestrated by Scott Rothstein involved
persuading wealthy investors to buy stakes in what he said were
payouts in confidential sexual harassment and workplace
discrimination lawsuits. The cases were fabricated. Rothstein
used forged court documents and phony bank records to sell the
scheme to investors, including four hedge funds and several
wealthy South Florida businessmen.  The scheme fell apart over Halloween weekend 2009 when he
was unable to bring in new investors to pay off old ones. He
fled to  Morocco , but returned a few days later and has
cooperated with federal authorities and the trustee appointed in
the bankruptcy of his former Fort Lauderdale law firm,
Rothstein, Rosenfeldt & Adler.  Money Laundering  He’s serving a 50-year sentence after pleading guilty to
racketeering, wire fraud and money laundering in 2010.  Saidel pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit money
laundering, obstruct justice and tamper with a witness. He faces
as long as five years in prison when he is sentenced on June 7.
He has already forfeited $65,000 and a pair of mother of pearl,
sapphire and diamond cuff links to federal authorities.  He was charged last September with Kimberly Rothstein and
three others. Kimberly Rothstein, who pleaded not guilty, was
scheduled to change her plea tomorrow. That hearing was
rescheduled today for Feb. 1, according to court records.  Kimberly Rothstein was charged with illegally hiding
$1 million in jewelry from U.S. authorities trying to seize her
husband’s assets to repay investors. Authorities said she lied
to IRS agents trying to confiscate the jewelry, including a 12-
carat yellow diamond ring. Rothstein amassed tens of millions of
dollars in real estate, cars, boats, luxury watches, jewelry and
sports memorabilia during his Ponzi scheme, authorities said.  Federal Agents  After Scott Rothstein agreed to plead guilty and forfeit
his illegal gains, Kimberly Rothstein held back some jewelry
when federal agents showed up on Nov. 9, 2009, U.S. prosecutors
said in court papers filed in Miami and Fort Lauderdale.  She and a friend sold some jewelry and joined others in
covering up their actions by lying during bankruptcy
proceedings, according to court papers.  Prosecutors are seeking forfeiture of five diamond rings,
10 watches, two bracelets, four necklaces, five pairs of
earrings, 50 gold bars, and various coins from the U.S.,  Canada ,
South Africa,  England  and  China .  Scott Rothstein was known for what he called his “rock
star” lifestyle. He and Kimberly were married in the Versace
mansion in Miami Beach -- Florida’s then-governor Charlie Crist
was a guest -- and his car collection included a Rolls-Royce, a
Bugatti, two Lamborghinis and a Maserati.  His firm also donated millions to prominent politicians,
including Senator John McCain, and to charitable causes.  Last year,  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  agreed to settle a lawsuit
with investors who claimed it aided in the Ponzi scheme. The
will pay $170 million. It’s appealing a $67 million verdict in
another investor lawsuit and faces suits from several other
investors in the Rothstein scheme.  The case is U.S. v. Saidel, 12-cr-60204, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  