-- Bank of Italy Seen Vigilant as Monte Paschi Risk Surfaced
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-01-31T08:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/bank-of-italy-seen-vigilant-as-monte-paschi-risk-surfaced.html
The Bank of  Italy  acted vigilantly
in its oversight of  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) , with
the discovery of accounting irregularities leading to a criminal
investigation targeting previous management, a former senior
Bank of Italy official who was involved in the inspections said.  Pressure from the central bank prompted a shakeup of
executives at the Siena-based lender last year and led to the
uncovering in January of secret documents about some
transactions hidden from regulators, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the probe is confidential.  The central bank is rejecting criticism that lax oversight
allowed Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank, to amass risky
positions that may saddle the company with hundreds of millions
of euros in losses and already have necessitated a 3.9 billion-
euro ($5.3 billion) bailout request. The Monte Paschi affair
came to light after  Bloomberg News  reported on Jan. 17 the
lender engaged in a transaction with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in 2008
that obscured losses.  The Bank of Italy, then headed by  Mario Draghi , first
became concerned about Monte Paschi’s finances when it reviewed
a 2008 bank takeover. That led to two full inspections of Monte
Paschi starting in 2010. The central bank became so concerned
about the irregularities it notified prosecutors in March 2012,
according to a report dated Jan. 28. Draghi, 65, was named
president of the  European Central Bank  in 2011.  Hide Losses  The documents revealed this month show that Monte Paschi’s
former management used structured-finance deals to hide losses
from previous operations. The bank has said it was investigating
three transactions and will release a report by the middle of
this month on their financial impacts.  Monte Paschi’s former management obstructed the efforts of
the central bank’s inspectors to determine the true nature and
risks of the transactions, the person said.  After an inspection in 2010, the  Bank of Italy  demanded a
daily report on the company’s liquidity balance because the
deals were absorbing funds and then insisted that Chief
Executive Officer Antonio Vigni personally sign the reports.  As part of a further inspection, started in September 2011,
the central bank met with senior management in November of that
year and demanded “they assume their responsibilities,”
according to a summary of the bank’s actions obtained by
Bloomberg.  Removed Vigni  Monte Paschi’s board removed Vigni two months later and the
central bank then challenged the executive’s 4 million-euro exit
package. The Bank of Italy, now headed by Governor Ignazio Visco, turned over its finding from the inspection in March to
prosecutors. Chairman  Giuseppe Mussari  left a month later when
his mandate expired.  Shareholders didn’t find out about the irregularities until
this month, though it wasn’t the central bank’s responsibility
to make their concerns public. The Bank of Italy’s mandate is to
ensure sound management and solid finances at the nation’s
lenders, the person said. Market regulator Consob could have
ordered Monte Paschi to inform shareholders, though when there
is a criminal investigation, prosecutors often ask Consob not to
make the case public, the person said.  Downgrade Risk  Moody’s Investors Service placed Monte Paschi debt on
review for a downgrade yesterday because of “considerable
uncertainty” over the impact of the structured finance deals.  Monte Paschi shares rose 2.4 percent to 24.8 cents at 9:21
a.m. in Milan, after sliding 9.5 percent yesterday.  Some politicians have slammed the central bank. Italian
Senator Elio Lannutti, who also heads Adusbef, a consumer group
for bank customers, called on prosecutors to extend their
criminal investigation to include the oversight by the Bank of
Italy and market regulator Consob.  “Those who had the duty to verify the correctness and
veracity of the counts of Monte Paschi, including the hedging
operations with derivatives, namely the Bank of Italy and
Consob, didn’t do their job,” he said in a Jan. 23 statement.  Far from skirting its responsibility, the Bank of Italy is
responsible for exposing the irregularities, which it first
discovered while reviewing the lender’s unrelated 9 billion-euro
purchase of Banca Antonveneta SpA, completed in 2008, the former
central bank official said.  That takeover and losses stemming from a 25 billion-euro
position in  government bonds  as part of the structured deals
eroded the bank’s finances as the  European debt crisis  decimated
the value of those assets. Monte Paschi was forced to seek two
government bailouts to meet European Banking Authority capital
requirements.  European Regulator  The revelations about Monte Paschi have come as Draghi
prepares for the ECB to take the lead in creating a European-
wide bank regulator. German newspapers have pointed the
spotlight at the fact that the irregularities happened while he
was running the Italian central bank.  The  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  published an article on
Jan. 29 with the headline ‘Monte dei Paschi Affair Reaches ECB
President Draghi.” Die Welt yesterday ran a story under the
headline ‘Bank Scandal Puts Draghi Under Pressure.”  Support in  Germany , the home of the ECB, is crucial for
Draghi as he tries to push the euro region out of a debt crisis
that has forced five of 17 members to seek bailouts. His pledge
last year to buy potentially unlimited quantities of government
bonds was criticized by Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann even
though it has staunched the three-year crisis for now.  ‘Continuous and Thorough’  The Italian government, for its part, has rejected
criticism of the central bank. Regulatory oversight of Monte
Paschi was “continuous and thorough” and the bank remains
solid even with a capital shortfall and possible losses linked
to structured deals, Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said in
parliament on Jan. 29.  “With hindsight everything becomes so black and white, so
we must think there was complacency, said Giovanni Ferri, an
economics professor at Luiss University in  Rome , who previously
worked at the Bank of Italy and the  World Bank . “But I doubt
that is fair. You need the insiders to help you out with
targeting where you want to excavate to find something wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  