-- Barclays Diamond Reluctant to Tackle Bonus, Ex-Director Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-01-30T18:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/barclays-s-diamond-reluctant-to-tackle-bonuses-ex-director-says.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  former Chief Executive
Officer Robert Diamond was reluctant to tackle “obscene”
levels of pay as he was overly protective of investment bankers,
ex-compensation committee head Alison Carnwath said.  The committee asked Diamond when he was promoted in January
2011 to clarify compensation to employees, Carnwath wrote in a
submission to the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards
today.  “Diamond was reluctant to do this and reluctant to accept
pay at Barclays was high particularly in the investment bank,”
Carnwath wrote. “Barclays were demanding too much patience from
their shareholders and were insufficiently sensitive to the
political and economic environment.”  Carnwath quit Britain’s second-largest bank by assets in
July after the bank lost its three most senior figures amid the
lender’s 290 million-pound ($458 million) fine for rigging
global interest rates. About 21 percent of Barclays’s
shareholders opposed her re-election as a non-executive director
in April amid criticism from investors the lender was enriching
employees, while failing to hit its own profitability targets.  Diamond “thought he found loyalty in people around him by
paying them very well,” Carnwath said. “In my view more than
he needed to.”  Deferred Bonus  Carnwath said that after a poor performance for the bank in
2011, during which the stock fell 33 percent, she was alone in
recommending Diamond should receive no bonus. Diamond was
awarded a 2.7 million-pound deferred bonus in shares for 2011,
according to the bank’s annual report.  Former Chairman Marcus Agius “is in a better position to
explain how his formulation was reached,” she said in the
submission. “Mr. Diamond needed to set an example to all
stakeholders that remuneration policies had to change to reflect
the low return environment.”  Diamond agreed before he resigned in July to cap the pay of
some bankers who received too much because of the structure of
some plans, she said.  Bonuses Cut  Some executives had their bonuses reduced following the
scandal over payment protection insurance, or PPI, when
consumers were sold loans insurance they did not want or need,
she said. It was more difficult to adjust bonuses for deals that
caused “reputational damage such as the bank’s tax affairs, or
its ‘‘protium’’ deal, Carnwath said.  FSA Chairman Adair Turner said in July Barclays’s protium
transaction in 2009, which involved moving the riskiest assets
off its balance sheet using a Cayman Islands-based fund run by
former executives, was a ‘‘convoluted attempt to portray a
favorable accounting result.’’  Annual bonuses paid in the future should be lower and made
only after shareholders have benefited from the bank’s
performance, Carnwath said.  Carnwath was paid 158,000 pounds in 2011 at Barclays, the
third-highest of its 10 non-executive directors that year,
according to the annual report.  Separately at the parliamentary commission, Barclays’s
current compensation committee chairman John Sunderland said it
was right for Diamond to receive a bonus as he ‘‘deserved some
recognition” for his work, though he would have “debated the
quantum” of the award.  Andrew Tyrie, the head of the bank commission, suggested
Diamond’s 1.35 million-pound salary would have been enough of an
award for his work. “1.3 million by any stretch of the
imagination is what most people would consider to be a bit of
recognition,” Tyrie said.  Capital Markets  The commission received testimony from a witness who said
in 2000 that the structured capital markets division of Barclays
contributed 110 percent of Barclays’s investment banking unit’s
profit, Labour lawmaker John McFall said.  “We saw the profitability by division of all the elements
of the investment bank including structured capital markets,”
Sunderland said. “At no time can I recall that would constitute
110 percent of the total profits of that bank.”  Barclays in 2009 denied a Guardian newspaper report that it
made about 1 billion pounds a year from tax-avoidance activities
in its structured capital markets business.  Parliamentarians also questioned Sunderland on mis-sold
loan insurance. Lawmaker Andrew Turnbull described as “just
rubbish” Sunderland’s assertion that most PPI sales were made
in the last 10 years and that most people associated with the
scandal are “long gone from the bank.”  “This committee has done a lot of work on this,” said
Turnbull. “This doesn’t go back 10 years, the complaints
started to reach crescendo in 2005.”  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  