-- Belka to Respond to Critics in Address to Polish Senate
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-01-30T07:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/belka-to-respond-to-critics-in-address-to-polish-senate.html
Poland’s central bank Governor Marek Belka will address the nation’s Senate today amid growing
criticism that monetary policy makers didn’t start cutting
 interest rates  soon enough to help the slowing economy.  Belka will deliver a speech after 2 p.m. in Warsaw on
“anti-crisis measures” taken by the central bank and answer
lawmakers’ questions, according to Aleksandra Leicht, the upper
house’s spokeswoman. It will be his first official appearance in
parliament since July and since the central bank began lowering
borrowing costs in November to spur the ailing economy.  Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  has said the economy’s
weak performance is partly due to “mistakes” in monetary
policy as rate cuts came “too late.” Prime Minister Donald Tusk on Jan. 25 appealed to the Monetary Policy Council to take
“quick” decisions that will “help the economy.”  Poland’s central bank was the only one in the European
Union to raise  rates  in 2012 and began its easing cycle a year
later than the  European Central Bank  and five months after the
Czech Republic.  Polish gross domestic product  grew  2 percent in 2012, the
slowest in three years, the  Central Statistical Office  said
yesterday. GDP growth may ease further to 1.7 percent in 2013,
the median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg survey shows.  “The government is being increasingly explicit in asking
for measures to support growth,” Pasquale Diana, an economist
at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in a e-mailed report Jan. 25.
It’s unclear if “the central bank will deliver more easing or
simply reject these calls in the name of independence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  