-- Billionaire Chasing Vodka With Dim Sum Joins VTB: Russia Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-01-30T13:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/billionaire-chasing-vodka-with-dim-sum-joins-vtb-russia-credit.html
The Russian bank owned by vodka
billionaire Rustam Tariko is weighing the country’s first sale
of  yuan  debt by a junk-rated lender as trade with  China  grows.  ZAO Russian  Standard Bank  will finish investor meetings in
Asia today, according to a person with knowledge of the matter,
who asked not to be identified as the information isn’t public.
The yield discount of yuan bonds compared with ruble notes for
three-year debt from state-run VTB Group has widened 24 basis
points, or 0.24 percentage point, to 490 since Dec. 28.  Russian trade with China increased 11 percent last year to
$80 billion, trailing only the European Union and countries in
the former  Soviet Union , according to Federal Customs Service
data. Tariko joins VTB and OAO Russian Agricultural Bank selling
yuan debt as rising investor appetite cuts the cost of borrowing
in the Chinese currency.  “Trade between Russia and China is increasing at a serious
pace,” Vladimir Evstifeev, an analyst with OAO Bank Zenit in
Moscow, said by e-mail on Jan. 28. “The need to finance Russian
companies in the Chinese currency is growing, creating a need
for banks to find reliable financing sources in yuan.”  The  average yield of Dim Sum bonds  fell to a 15-month low
of 3.47 percent on Jan. 25, the S&P/DB Orbit Index, which tracks
bonds denominated in offshore  renminbi  shows. The gauge climbed
four basis points yesterday to 3.5 percent.  Yields Fall  The yuan bond sale allows Russian Standard to “diversify
its investor base and attract funding to develop its business in
favorable market conditions,” Artyom Lebedev, a Moscow-based
spokesman, wrote in e-mailed comments today.  VTB’s three-year yuan debt sold in October yielded 3.83
percent today, 21 basis points off a record low reached Jan. 17.
The yield on McDonald’s Corp. yuan bonds due September this year
fell to a six-month low of 2.37 percent on Jan. 14 and rose two
basis points to 2.56 percent yesterday.  VTB sold 1 billion yuan ($160 million) of notes due in 2015
at a yield of 3.8 percent, its third offering of yuan debt,
according to a Jan. 18 filing. Russian Agricultural Bank, which
like VTB and the Russian government has Fitch Ratings’ second-
lowest investment-grade ranking, also sold 1 billion yuan of
debt due in February 2016 last week.  Tariko’s Russian Standard Corp. includes the lender as well
as the vodka producer with the same name. The company has a 40
percent market share of the premium vodka market in Russia and
exports to more than 75 markets across  Europe , the U.S. and
 Asia , according to its website. It sells its vodka through duty
free outlets in China.  Ice Bar  Russian Standard, which is rated B+ at Fitch, four steps
below investment grade,  participated  in the world’s biggest ice
festival in Harbin, northern China, with a bar sculpted from
blocks of ice.  “We have plans for China,” Preston Mendenhall, a
spokesman for Russian Standard Corp., said by phone today,
without providing further details.  While the volume of Russian banks’ notes denominated in
yuan is “miserly” at less than 1 percent of total bond sales,
their share “will develop as trade grows,” Dmitry Dudkin, head
of fixed-income research at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow,
said on Jan. 28. “Banks are trying to take part in the market
of the future.”  Selling debt in currencies other than those a lender
focuses on is “opportunistic,”  Ian McCall , who holds Russian
Standard bonds and helps manage the equivalent of $107 million
in emerging-market assets at Quesnell Capital SA in Geneva, said
by e-mail yesterday.  “They can plummet in a bad market because the holders
don’t understand the credit they are buying,” McCall said.  Ruble, Bonds  The ruble traded little changed at 30.0375 per dollar by
5:55 p.m. in Moscow. Ruble futures expiring in March showed the
currency at 30.266 per dollar.  The yield on the country’s dollar bonds due in April 2020
jumped 17 basis points to 2.787 percent. The yield on
domestically traded government ruble bonds due in June 2017 rose
two basis points to 6.19 percent. The yield on  Russia ’s ruble
Eurobond due in 2018 fell two basis points to 5.744 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose six basis points to 165,
according to JPMorgan EMBIG indexes. The difference compares
with 151 for debt of similarly-rated  Mexico  and 141 for  Brazil .  Lower Cost  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps climbed one basis point to
139, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The swaps cost 13
basis points more than  Turkey , which is rated one step lower by
Fitch at BBB-. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a
government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  VTB has also borrowed in  Singapore  dollars, Swiss francs
and Australian dollars. Investors in Asia, including from Taiwan
and Singapore, bought 85 percent of the lender’s yuan notes, VTB
said in a Jan. 18 statement.  “It’s a logical way to diversify companies’ balance
sheets” and “lower the cost of financing,”  Tim McCarthy , who
oversees more than $1 billion of assets in Russia and other
 emerging markets  at Valartis Asset Management in Geneva, said by
phone yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  