-- Bingham, Morgan Lewis, Patton Boggs: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-30T12:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/bingham-morgan-lewis-patton-boggs-business-of-law.html
Bingham McCutchen LLP lost two
groups of prominent partners yesterday.  Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP announced that Tara Higgins, Torsten Marshall and Rafael Galvan, energy and project
finance partners from Bingham, joined the firm’s energy and
infrastructure group in  New York .  Gary R. Huffman and Joe Garcia Jr., two tax partners from
Bingham, with energy industry experience, also left the firm
yesterday for the  Washington  office of Vinson & Elkins LLP.  Higgins, formerly co-chair of Bingham’s energy and project
finance group, will become co-head of Orrick’s U.S. energy
practice, along with San Francisco partner Mark Weitzel. Her
practice focuses primarily on domestic and international energy
and infrastructure-related projects. Marshall’s practice is
concentrated mainly in the energy, project finance and secured
lending areas.  Galvan represents developers, investors and financial
institutions in connection with the development, acquisition,
financing and restructuring of energy, telecommunication,
transportation and other infrastructure and industrial projects.  The new team expects to be joined by several associates
from Bingham during the coming weeks, Orrick said.  The partners have represented clients such as GE Energy
Financial Services, Overseas Private Investment Corp., Atlantic
Power Corp. and the U.S. Energy Department, Orrick said.  “The energy sector continues to grow rapidly, and Orrick
is committed to its role as a key player in the industry,”
Michael Meyers, co-head of Orrick’s global energy and
infrastructure practice, said in a statement.  In Washington, former Bingham tax partner Huffman has
advised multinationals including oil and gas companies, V&E said
in a statement. Huffman has led corporate acquisitions, asset
sales and spinoffs, and structured strategic alliances, both
domestic and international, the firm said.  Garcia, who practiced with Huffman at McKee Nelson, a tax
and finance boutique, before the firm’s 2009 merger with
Bingham, focuses on partnership taxation. He has counseled
clients on developing and financing private power projects, oil
refineries and telecommunications networks, the firm said.  Bingham spokesman Eric Miller said in a phone call, “We
wish them well.”  Morgan Lewis Hires Business and Finance Partner in Boston  Morgan Lewis  & Bockius LLP hired transactional lawyer Mark B. Stein in its business and finance practice. Stein, who joins
the Boston office, was previously with McDermott, Will & Emery
LLP.  Stein advises on private equity and venture capital
investments, often in the life sciences and health-care
industries. He focuses his practice on mergers and acquisitions,
private-equity and venture-capital transactions, and general
representation of operating companies. He also serves as outside
general counsel to companies in industries including software,
the firm said.  Morgan Lewis’s business and finance team has more than 300
transactional lawyers across its 24 offices in the U.S.,  Europe 
and  Asia , according to the firm. It has more than 1,600 legal
professionals including lawyers, patent agents, benefits
advisers, regulatory scientists and other specialists.  Norton Rose Hires Corporate Partner in Beijing  Norton Rose  LLP appointed Barbara Li, formerly of Baker &
McKenzie LLP, as a corporate partner in Beijing.  Li is dual-qualified as a solicitor in  England  and  Wales  as
well as by the PRC Bar. She works primarily across the mining,
infrastructure and energy sectors, advising on both inbound and
outbound investment and mergers and acquisitions matters, the
firm said.  With Li’s appointment, Norton Rose has eight partners in
Beijing, and other China offices in  Hong Kong  and  Shanghai . The
firm has 13 offices across the Asia-Pacific region.  Worldwide, Norton Rose has 2,900 lawyers in 40 offices. It
will merge with Fulbright & Jaworski LLP this year to create a
3,800-attorney firm.  Monica Quinn Joins Littler Mendelson in Los Angeles  Littler Mendelson PC hired Monica Quinn as a shareholder in
its downtown  Los Angeles  office. Quinn was previously a partner
at Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP’s Los Angeles
office.  Quinn has litigation and counseling experience on
employment disputes including wrongful termination,
discrimination, harassment and retaliation at all levels of
state and federal court.  Littler Mendelson has more than 950 attorneys at 56 offices
throughout the U.S. and internationally.  Hogan Lovells Dealmaker Lynch Leaves for Drinker Biddle  Brian J. Lynch joined Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP’s
corporate and securities practice group as a partner. He joins
the firm from the Philadelphia office of Hogan Lovells LLP.  Lynch focuses his practice on mergers and acquisitions and
capital markets transactions. He also counsels corporate clients
on Securities and Exchange Commission reporting and compliance,
corporate governance and general corporate and commercial
matters.  Before entering private practice, Lynch worked for the SEC
in the division of corporation finance and the office of chief
counsel as well as the office of rulemaking.  Drinker Biddle has 650 lawyers in 11 U.S. offices.  Patton Boggs Hires Corporate Finance Lawyer for Middle East  Patton Boggs LLP hired Brian J. Pierce in the firm’s
corporate finance practice group as a partner. Pierce, who will
work throughout the  Middle East  and North Africa, joins from
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, where he was special counsel, Middle
East, the firm said.  Pierce has experience in project development and finance,
mergers and acquisitions, international corporate finance
transactions and general corporate matters.  Among Pierce’s past work matters, he represented Emirates
Aluminum Co. in connection with the $7 billion financing of its
aluminum smelter complex in  Abu Dhabi , the firm said. He also
represented ING Group in its $100 million divestment of its
U.S.-based private market real estate investment management
business, the firm said.  Patton Boggs has about 550 attorneys in six offices in the
U.S. and three in the Middle East.  News  Shift in White Collar Probe Tactics a Mark of Breuer’s Tenure  Lanny Breuer, the U.S.  Justice Department ’s outgoing
criminal division chief, said prosecutors have a new paradigm
for corporate crime investigations, with wiretaps and insider
witnesses becoming core components in the search for fraud
convictions.  Breuer, often criticized for his division’s inability to
bring criminal cases against  Wall Street  executives in the wake
of the 2008 financial crisis, said he will leave his position
March 1 after helping to implement tactics “that simply haven’t
been used before.”  “We’re using wiretaps, flipping witnesses, pressuring
witnesses -- we’ve been pretty aggressive,” Breuer, 54, said
yesterday in an interview. “That has become the hallmark of
those kinds of cases, and I think that is going to be the way
white-collar case are investigated and prosecuted in the
future.”  Breuer’s almost four years as assistant attorney general in
charge of the criminal division are the longest tenure in that
job in half a century. His division has overseen the largest
criminal resolution in U.S. history in the $4 billion settlement
with  BP Plc (BP/)  over the 2010 Gulf of  Mexico  oil spill. Its
investigation into the rigging of  interest rates  continues after
settlements with two major banks, criminal charges against two
traders and a guilty plea from a bank subsidiary.  Yet his critics seize on the shortcomings of his tenure,
including an inability to pin cases on high-level Wall Street
executives and the refusal to indict some financial
institutions. Congressional investigators cited him for failing
to notify superiors of problems during a bungled federal gun
operation known as Fast and Furious.  Breuer said he understands the frustration with the lack of
Wall Street prosecutions and said the industry’s behavior before
the crisis was “morally reprehensible.” His difficulty is
mirrored by U.S. attorneys’ offices around the country, which
also have been unable to make cases against illegal behavior by
those blamed for the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  Breuer left the Covington & Burling law firm in 2009 to
join the Justice Department. While he hasn’t decided what he
plans next, he acknowledged that it probably won’t be difficult
for him to find a job.  Breuer said he’s confident in what he’s leaving behind -- a
division and a change in prosecutorial tactics that may pose a
threat to future wrongdoing on Wall Street.  For more, click here.  Mexican Governor Negotiated Bribes, Ex-Wal-Mart Lawyer Says  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s (WMT)  Mexican unit used a current state
governor there to facilitate $156,000 in bribes meant to help
open stores, an ex-lawyer for the retailer told company
officials in 2005, according to documents released by members of
the  U.S. Congress .  The payments were negotiated by  Graco Ramirez Garrido
Abreu , who at the time served as a federal lawmaker for the
state of Morelos, a Wal-Mart summary of the accusations stated.
It was released Jan. 10 by Democratic Representatives  Henry
Waxman  of  California  and  Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , whose
staff is investigating the lawyer’s allegations.  The accusations by attorney  Sergio Cicero Zapata , who
alleged Ramirez was “the main contact person” to speed needed
permissions from the Urban Development Ministry, came in a
summary of an Oct. 13, 2005, meeting with the retailer’s
officials. Cicero, a 28-year veteran of the company, told them
he set up the bribery scheme while employed by Wal-Mart. He was
forced out in 2004 after colleagues questioned his oversight of
payments to consultants in company-related real-estate deals.  Governor Ramirez denied Cicero’s claims, saying on his
official  website  he had no relationship with Wal-Mart at the
time in question. Partly based on Cicero’s accounts, the New
York Times  reported  last year that at least $24 million in
“suspect payments” were made in Mexico on Wal-Mart’s behalf to
open stores. Cicero couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  Both U.S. and Mexican prosecutors said last year they were
investigating the bribery allegations. Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB is
the country’s largest private employer, with more than 209,000
employees. Twenty percent of Wal-Mart’s more than 10,000 stores
worldwide are in Mexico, following growth during the past
decade.  “There is nothing new in these documents,” Wal-Mart
spokesman Randy Hargrove said. “This information has been part
of the company’s ongoing investigation of potential violations
of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act for more than a year
and has been the subject of two New York Times articles.”  For more, click here.  Wells Fargo Survey of Big Firms Shows Income Rose in 2012  Big law firms did well last year, according to a survey by
Wells Fargo Private Bank’s Legal Group, the Wall Street Journal
reported.  The survey of about 100 firms found that a 5 percent
increase in gross revenues from 2011. Net income rose by 6
percent, while profit per equity partner climbed by almost 5
percent, the newspaper said.  Increased collections and a pickup in business prompted by
the threat of the fiscal cliff may account for the gains,
according to the Journal.  The report also showed that firms in the second tier of
revenues, known as the AmLaw 200 for the trade magazine, The
American Lawyer, which ranks firms by their finances, did better
than the 100 richest firms.  For more,  click here.  (Password required.)  Firm News  Jackson Lewis Names Ackerstein National Director of Litigation  Jackson Lewis LLP Boston partner Joan Ackerstein will be
the firm’s new national director of litigation. Ackerstein
succeeds firm Chairman Vincent A. Cino, who has been the
national director of litigation since 2006.  “Having served in that role previously, I understand what
is involved, and I have full confidence in Joan’s ability to
coordinate and monitor our litigation matters with immense skill
and dedication,” Cino said in a statement.  Ackerstein will continue to counsel employers on workplace
issues and litigate employment claims.  Jackson Lewis has 750 attorneys at 51 U.S. locations.  Dykema Appoints Michael Borders Chicago Office Head  Litigator Michael C. Borders is Dykema Gossett PLLC’s new
Chicago office managing member. He succeeds former Chicago
office managing member Derek Cottier.  Borders, who has been at the firm for more than 30 years,
is a member of its executive board. His litigation practice
includes insurance disputes, product liability, personal injury,
commercial disputes and class actions.  Chicago is Dykema’s largest office, with almost 100
attorneys and government policy advisers. The firm has lawyers
and professionals in 12 U.S. offices.  Video  Apple Loses First ‘Big’ Case to MobileMedia, Lawyer Says  Steven Bauer, co-head of the patent law group at Proskauer
Rose LLP, talks about his representation of patent-licensing
firm MobileMedia Ideas LLC in its recent infringement case
against Apple Inc. The maker of the iPhone lost the lawsuit when
a federal jury decided that it had misappropriated protected
technology for its handheld devices.  Bauer, speaking with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck, also
discusses the rise of U.S. patent jury awards in 2012 and
reasons why several verdicts have been reversed with post-trial
motions or on appeal.  To hear the podcast, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  