-- Boeing Batteries Said to Fail 10 Times Before Incident
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2013-01-30T22:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/boeing-batteries-said-to-fail-10-times-before-incident.html
All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  said it
changed lithium-ion batteries or chargers on its  Boeing Co. (BA)  787
planes 10 times before a Jan. 16 emergency landing that led to
the Dreamliner’s worldwide grounding.  The disclosure came as the U.S. National Transportation
Safety Board broadens its probe of the batteries beyond the ANA
incident and a fire on a  Japan  Airlines Co. 787 nine days
earlier in  Boston . The safety board knew some airlines replaced
batteries on the 787 and has worked with Boeing to get a
complete list of maintenance actions,  Kelly Nantel , a
spokeswoman, said in an interview.  The previous battery failures didn’t cause cancellations or
delays, and therefore weren’t reported to Japan’s Transport
Ministry, Megumi Tezuka, an All Nippon spokeswoman, said in an
interview today. More than 100 units failed and were returned to
the manufacturer before the two incidents with the Japanese
airlines, the Seattle Times reported today, citing an
unidentified person inside the 787 program.  “It is far too early to say whether any of these prior
battery problems have any impact on our investigation,” Nantel
said.  The widening of the NTSB’s inquiry shows the 787’s
grounding won’t end any time soon. Flights on Chicago-based
Boeing’s most advanced jet were stopped by the U.S.  Federal
Aviation Administration  and other aviation authorities Jan. 16,
in the first such U.S. action involving an entire aircraft type
since 1979, after a battery smoldered and emitted fumes on an
ANA domestic flight in Japan.  Battery Replacements  Neither Boeing nor ANA notified the FAA about the battery
replacements made before the Jan. 7 Boston fire, the FAA said
today in an e-mailed statement.  If batteries were replaced for reasons that didn’t include
a fire, a release of toxic fumes or a similar significant
failure, Boeing wouldn’t be required to inform the U.S. aviation
regulator, according to FAA regulations. The reporting
regulations apply to U.S. carriers, not foreign airlines, so ANA
wouldn’t have had to report to FAA.  Boeing isn’t aware of any 787 batteries being replaced
because of safety concerns,  Marc Birtel , a spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement today. The batteries were made by  GS Yuasa
Corp. (6674) , based in Kyoto.  “The batteries are being returned because our robust
protection scheme ensures that no battery that has been deeply
discharged or improperly disconnected can be used,” he said.  Shelf Life  Some batteries had exceeded their shelf life, he said.
“This is a fact of life in dealing with batteries; they
sometimes expire and must be returned,” he said.  The batteries on the 787 have been replaced at a “slightly
higher” rate than Boeing anticipated, Chief Executive Officer
Jim McNerney said today during a conference call on earnings.  Progress is being made on understanding the root causes of
the battery incidents and the company remains optimistic that
the plane will be a success, McNerney said. He declined to
speculate when the Dreamliner would return to flight.  “We’re making progress in the investigation,” he said.
“We’ve got every expert in the world looking at this issue.”  Tokyo-based ANA was the first customer for the 787, which
uses new technology such as carbon-fiber materials to save
weight and improve efficiency. The plane was the first to use
large  lithium-ion batteries  for backup power and to start the
auxiliary power unit, a turbine engine that drives a generator
mainly for power on the ground.  Battery Issues  Japan Airlines also had battery issues before the Boston
incident, Sze Hunn Yap, a company spokeswoman, said today. The
previous incidents weren’t serious and they didn’t cause any
cancellation of flights or delays, she said.  Air India Ltd. (JETIN)  had no battery problems with its 787s,
Chairman Rohit Nandan said in a text message.  LOT Polish Airlines SA, the only European carrier to fly
the aircraft so far, hasn’t encountered any issues with
batteries on its 787s, a spokesman said in a telephone
interview. While there were some technical issues on the
aircraft, they were “teething issues,” he said. LOT has one
Dreamliner stranded in Warsaw and one in  Chicago .  Mary Ryan, a spokeswoman for  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL) , the only U.S. airline operating the Dreamliner, declined
to say whether the company had replaced batteries.  Boeing today said net income for 2013 will be $5 to $5.20 a
share. That compares with an average estimate of $5.16 in a
Bloomberg survey of 25 analysts. Boeing said its forecast
assumed no significant impact from the Dreamliner’s grounding
and shipments of more than 60 of the planes this year.  Certification Review  Under the FAA’s order, the Dreamliner won’t fly until
Boeing and airlines can show the batteries are safe. The agency
is also reviewing the plane’s certification and manufacture,
including its own 2007 decision allowing Boeing to use  lithium
batteries  in the plane’s design.  The NTSB, which is assisting Japan’s investigation into the
ANA incident, hasn’t been able to identify what caused the
failures.  Investigators are still attempting to determine whether a
common manufacturing error could have led to the failures even
though the batteries on the ANA and Japan Air planes were made
10 months apart, according to two people familiar with the
investigation. They asked not to be identified because they
weren’t authorized to speak about the probe.  The safety board hasn’t ruled out potential causes ranging
from damage during operations to a circuitry failure, the people
said.  Microscopic Evidence  U.S. investigators are putting evidence under microscopes
as they also look globally for patterns of flaws with the
plane’s lithium batteries, the agency said in an e-mailed update
yesterday.  The battery that burned on the ANA plane was a replacement
unit made in November 2011 and installed in October 2012 after
an unspecified failure, according to Japan’s Transport Ministry
and ANA.  The unit on the JAL plane was made in September 2012,
according to the NTSB and Japan’s Transport Ministry.  Teams of NTSB specialists are examining with microscopes
the battery that failed, and performing chemical analysis in the
areas where they found internal short circuiting and thermal
damage, according to its release.  The safety board is also scanning data contained on the JAL
plane’s two flight-data recorders.  Japan’s transport ministry completed the inspections at a
battery-box monitor maker based in Fujisawa yesterday, said
Shigeru Takano, a director for air transportation at the
ministry’s Civil Aviation Bureau. They didn’t find any problems
“directly linked” to the battery fire, Takano said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  