-- Bonds Most ‘Overbought’ in 55 Years, Loomis Sayles’s Fuss Says
-- B y   S t e v e   B a i l e y   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-01-30T17:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/bonds-most-overbought-in-55-years-loomis-sayles-s-fuss-says.html
Dan Fuss , whose Loomis Sayles Bond
Fund beat 98 percent of its peers in the last three years, said
the fixed-income market is more “overbought” than at any time
in his 55-year career as he prepares to open a fund to British
individual investors.  “This is the most overbought market I have ever seen in my
life in the business,” Fuss, 79, who oversees $66 billion in
fixed-income assets as vice chairman of Boston-based Loomis
Sayles & Co., said in an interview in London. “What I tell my
clients is, ‘It’s not the end of the world, but for heaven’s
sakes don’t go out and borrow money to buy bonds right now.’”  Yields on  government bonds  in the U.S., Germany, the U.K.
and Australia tumbled to all-time lows last year as Europe’s
debt crisis intensified and concern grew that global growth was
stalling. Central banks, including the  Federal Reserve ,  Bank of
Japan  and  Bank of England  put pressure on interest rates by
purchasing  government securities  to boost growth.  Ten-year Treasury yields, which touched a record low of
1.38 percent in July, were at 2.02 percent at 3:50 p.m. in
London today, compared with an average over the past 10 years of
3.64 percent. Germany’s 10-year bund yield slid to 1.13 percent
last year, less than half its 10-year average of 3.36 percent.  “The world is changing,” said Fuss, who started in the
investment business when Dwight Eisenhower was U.S. President.
“We are coming off a period of very low interest rates because
the central banks have been buying the bonds. Interest rates are
going to go up.”  Eagan, Stokes  With the U.K. fund, Fuss will be trying to replicate the
success of his $15 billion  Loomis Sayles Strategic Income Fund (NEFZX) ,
which beat 94 percent of its peers over the past year and 97
percent over three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
pool, which he manages with Matt Eagan and Elaine Stokes,
targets corporate, convertible and government bonds worldwide
and may invest as much as 35 percent of its assets in equities.  The U.K. fund, approved by the Financial Services Authority
today, will limit common stocks to 20 percent and be managed by
Fuss and his two colleagues. Fuss said he is the largest
individual investor in the U.S. version of the fund, adding he
has “a very meaningful amount” of his wealth in it.  Calling the risk in the  bond market  “very high,” Fuss
said he sees opportunities in government bonds in Canada,
Australia and  New Zealand , companies with strong credit ratings
as well as those likely to experience upgrades.  He has cut the maturities of the bonds the fund holds by
half in the last four years and in October started reducing his
holdings in junk bonds and  emerging markets . The new issues
market is particularly risky, he said.  High Yield  “High-yield is as overbought as I have ever seen it,” Fuss
said. “This is absolutely, from a valuation point,
ridiculous.”  The average extra yield investors charge to hold high-yield
bonds instead of government bonds dropped to 493 basis points on
Jan. 28, the lowest level since May 2011, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Global High Yield Index. Junk bonds are
high-yield, high-risk securities ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s . A
basis point is the equivalent of 0.01 percentage point.  Fuss is most closely associated with the  Loomis Sayles Bond
Fund (LSBDX) , which beat 96 percent of peers in the past year and 92
percent over five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. He has been at Loomis Sayles, a unit of Paris-based
 Natixis (KN) , since 1976 and plans to work for years to come. His
father, he said, worked into his late 80s and his grandfather
ran a tavern until he was about 90.  Natixis said in a separate statement that the Strategic
Income Fund is the first of a line of sub-funds it plans in the
U.K.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bailey in London at 
 sbailey16@blomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net  