-- U.S. Seeks to Lift BP Attorney Privilege on Spill Papers
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-01-31T19:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/bp-s-plea-said-to-remove-spill-records-attorney-privilege.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s exploration unit no longer
has legal grounds to withhold from the U.S. documents detailing
its calculations for the oil flow rate during the 2010  Gulf of
Mexico  spill, prosecutors said.  The company’s guilty plea to criminal charges means it
can’t assert attorney-client privilege to keep the information
confidential, prosecutors said yesterday in a filing in federal
court in New Orleans. Since BP’s lawyers were “intimately
involved” in aiding the company’s criminal conduct, the
customary shield over their work is eliminated, the U.S. said.  BP Exploration & Production Inc. on Jan. 29 won final
approval of its plea to 14 criminal counts related to the
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, which killed 11
workers and sparked the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S.
history. Among those charges was a count for obstructing justice
by lying to the  U.S. Congress  about the size of the spill, which
the government said dumped more than 4.1 million barrels of
crude into the gulf.  “Because BP used its attorneys to aid in its wrongdoing,
it can no longer claim privilege with respect to communications
related to developing the flow-rate information and
communications forming the basis of BP’s false and misleading
statements,” prosecutors said in the filing. This applies even
if the lawyers were unaware they were aiding criminal conduct,
the government said.  BP previously admitted in court papers “that the
preparation of the false and misleading documents in question
were attorney-directed efforts,” according to the filing. BP’s
fraudulent statements were “drafted in a collaborative process
led by  Wilmer Hale  and involving both in-house and external
lawyers,” government lawyers said.  Wilmer Hale  Wilmer Hale Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP , a 1,000-lawyer
corporate defense firm based primarily in  Boston  and Washington
D.C., had no immediate comment on the government filing, Molly
Nunes, a firm spokeswoman, said today.  BP initially told the government and the public that the
flow rate was from 1,000 to 5,000 barrels a day, when internal
estimates pegged the rate as high as 96,000 barrels a day,
prosecutors said.  “Nothing in the plea deprives BP of the right to invoke
the core protections provided under federal law,”  Scott Dean , a
spokesman for London-based BP, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We will respond to the government’s motion on a schedule set
by the court.”  $4 Billion  BP agreed to pay $4 billion in fines and penalties to
resolve all criminal charges tied to the fatal explosion and
spill. BP pleaded guilty to 11 counts of felony seaman’s
manslaughter and two counts of violating federal environmental
protection laws.  Separately, BP entered a consent judgment with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to pay an additional $525
million for lying about the size of the spill.  Prosecutors yesterday asked U.S. District Judge  Carl
Barbier  in New Orleans to force BP to turn over copies of “all
previously withheld documents” related to flow-rate estimates
BP executives provided Congress and the SEC during the first
months of the spill, according to the filing.  E-Mail Sought  The  Justice Department  also said it wants a copy of an e-
mail that  Doug Suttles , BP’s U.S. operations chief at the time,
sent the U.S. Coast Guard commander leading the joint spill-
response team in mid-May 2010.  That message was accompanied by an attachment that formed
the basis of the company’s consent agreement with the SEC as
well as a separate criminal indictment of Suttles’s subordinate,
 David Rainey . Rainey denies misleading the government about the
size of the spill and is fighting the charges.  Barbier is in charge of civil litigation over economic and
medical injuries stemming from the spill. The claims are
consolidated in his court for pretrial processing. BP won
approval last month for a $7.8 billion settlement with lawyers
representing thousands of coastal property owners, businesses
and individuals who claimed they were harmed by the spill or
efforts to clean it up.  Barbier on Feb. 25 is scheduled to begin a nonjury trial to
apportion liability for the explosion and spill among BP and its
partners and contractors, including Transocean Ltd.,  Halliburton
Co. (HAL)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)   Bench Trial  An August bench trial before Barbier will be held to
determine the quantity of oil BP spilled and how much it should
pay in civil pollution fines for violating the U.S. Clean Water
Act. Under that statute, BP could face an additional fine of as
much as $17 billion, depending on the size of the spill and
whether the company is found to have acted with gross negligence
in causing the disaster.  BP has so far spent more than $14 billion on operational
response and clean-up costs and committed an additional $1
billion to environmental restoration projects, according to an
e-mailed statement by the company after the Jan. 29 plea
hearing.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig “Deepwater
Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010; 2:10-md-2179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  