-- Brazil Accelerates Ethanol Blend Increase After Fuel Price Rise
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2013-01-30T21:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/brazil-accelerates-ethanol-blend-increase-after-fuel-price-rise.html
Brazil plans to increase in May the
amount of ethanol added to gasoline in a move that will help
state-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  reduce fuel imports.  The amount of ethanol will rise to 25 percent from 20
percent, Energy Minister Edison Lobao told reporters in Brasilia
today. He said earlier this month that the increase would take
effect in June.  The government of President Dilma Rousseff brought forward
the measure after clearing Petrobras, as the state-controlled
oil company is known, to raise gasoline prices and reduce losses
on imported fuels. The price rise will boost annual demand for
ethanol by as much as 4 billion liters (1.1 billion gallons),
according to Salim Morsy, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in Sao Paulo.  Petrobras said after the close of trading yesterday that it
will raise gasoline prices at refineries by 6.6 percent. That
will also let cane processors including  Cosan Ltd. (CZZ)  and  Sao
Martinho SA (SMTO3)  increase prices for ethanol, which competes with the
fossil fuel at the pump, Morsy said today in an e-mail.  Ethanol producers, who discussed the change in the blend
with government officials in Brasilia today, committed to
increase output to meet higher demand, Lobao said.  Sugar prices climbed today amid speculation that millers in
Brazil, the world’s largest producer, will direct more cane to
ethanol production. Raw sugar for March delivery rose 1.8
percent to settle at 18.71 cents a pound at 1:46 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York. The commodity has slumped 22 percent
in the past year on forecasts for a surplus in supply as output
in Brazil increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  