-- Brazil Ship Backlog Expands on Record Soybean Production
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-01-30T11:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/brazil-ship-backlog-expands-on-record-soybean-production.html
A record soybean crop in  Brazil , set
to be the world’s largest producer and exporter this season, is
creating a backlog of ships at the country’s main ports as the
harvest begins and corn is still being shipped.  As many as 126 vessels were scheduled to load 6.2 million
metric tons of soybeans and corn as of yesterday, according to
shipping agency Unimar Agenciamentos Maritimos Ltda. That
compares with 72 ships carrying 2.8 million tons a year earlier
and 47 vessels with 1.5 million tons in 2011, its data showed.
The wait at Santos, the country’s biggest port, may be as many
as 35 days, while the wait in Paranagua may be 15 days. Delays
may affect the soybean price outlook, Macquarie Group Ltd. said.  “The corn harvest was very big and lasted longer, so we
still have a lot of corn to be exported and that coincided with
the start of the soybean crop,” Nicolle de Castro, a business
analyst at broker and researcher SA Commodities, said by phone
from Santos yesterday. “So instead of having one product leave
the port for the next one to enter, now we have a lot of corn in
the line-up when soy is entering the market.”  Brazil, the world’s third-largest corn exporter, may
produce 71 million tons in the 2012-13 season started Sept. 1,
the second highest on record, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates. Soybean output at 82.5 million tons would be an all-
time high, USDA data showed.  Markets Rally  Soybean futures on the Chicago Board of Trade, the global
benchmark, have climbed in the past three weeks as rain in parts
of  Brazil  threatened to delay the harvest while the USDA said
Jan. 11 that U.S. inventories dropped to a nine-year low on Dec.
1. Both soybeans and corn rose to records last year as drought
cut U.S. yields and dry weather in the past season hurt South
American crops, while oilseed demand increased from  China , the
world’s biggest consumer.  As of Jan. 17, U.S. exporters had  committed  to ship about
33 million tons of soybeans since the marketing year began in
September, about 90 percent of the USDA’s forecast for total
shipments this year at 36.6 million tons, government data show.
Export commitments are 27 percent higher from a year earlier.  Soybean importers usually begin shifting toward South
American supplies in February, when Brazil’s harvest starts to
accelerate, said Chris Gadd, an analyst at Macquarie in  London .
The South American country may ship about 38.4 million tons this
marketing year, according to the USDA, while Gadd estimates
exports at about 37 million tons.  Soybean Harvest  From February to August, the main shipping period, Brazil’s
soybean exports may need to reach 33 million to 35 million tons,
Gadd said. That compares with 29 million tons in the same period
a year earlier and about 25 million tons in the previous three
seasons, he said. Brazil’s soybean harvest was 2 percent
complete, compared with last year’s pace of 3 percent, crop
researcher AgRural said on Jan. 28.  “Delays to the harvest and delays because of
infrastructure are big issues for soybean export potential” in
Brazil, Gadd said. “These are the most material risks to the
soybean-price outlook in the second half of the season.”  The backlog of vessels is a concern for sugar traders as
some terminals used to load sugar switch to grain and oilseeds
at this time of year, according to  Michael McDougall , head of
the Brazil desk at Newedge Group in  New York . More time spent
loading the extra grain supplies may delay sugar shipments
later. Brazil is the world’s biggest sugar producer.  Grains Switch  The switching to grains of some terminals at Paranagua may
limit the amount of sugar to be delivered when the March futures
contract expires at the end of next month on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York, according to Naim Beydoun, a broker at Swiss Sugar
Brokers in Rolle,  Switzerland .  Still, “I don’t think the grains situation will affect
sugar as the switch of terminals from sugar to grains and
oilseeds is no different from what happened in the last two
years,” SA Commodities’ de Castro said.  Raw sugar for March delivery climbed 1.6 percent to 18.67
cents a pound by 6:33 a.m. on ICE. Soybeans for March delivery
climbed 1.2 percent to $14.685 a bushel in  Chicago .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net 
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 