-- Brazil Real Trades Stronger Than 2 Per Dollar
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-01-30T20:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/brazil-real-trades-stronger-than-2-per-dollar.html
Brazil ’s real traded stronger than 2
per dollar for a third day as the central bank offered
greenbacks to support the currency, offsetting Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega ’s view that the government is ready to stem gains.  The currency pared its drop as the central bank auctioned
$1.27 billion of foreign-exchange credit lines at an auction
with a repurchase date of April 1 and a maximum rate of 2.005795
per dollar. The real depreciated 0.1 percent to 1.9887 per
dollar at the close in Sao Paulo after earlier weakening as much
as 0.7 percent to 1.9999.  “The government isn’t giving clear signals on what the
exchange-rate regime is,” Marcelo Fonseca, an economist at
M Safra & Co. in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “Is it
floating or administered within a currency band? It has to be
one or the other.”  Mantega commented in Brasilia after the real rallied beyond
2 per dollar on Jan. 28 for the first time in almost seven
months. The central bank moved that day to boost the currency by
selling $1.85 billion of foreign-exchange swap contracts as
inflation accelerated. That intervention prompted Credit Suisse
Group AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to project that
policy makers are allowing the currency to float within a
stronger band.  Policy makers may be willing to allow the real to further
appreciate to 1.98 per dollar in the short term to ease
inflation as long as the currency’s gains aren’t too fast,
Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a markets strategist at RBS, said
yesterday by e-mail. Credit Suisse boosted its forecast for the
real to 1.94 in 12 months from 2.03, analyst Bernd Berg wrote
yesterday in a report.  No Demand  The bank received no demand for the foreign-exchange credit
lines it auctioned today, an official with knowledge of the
auction said. It offered the dollars today to roll over similar
contracts that will expire Feb. 1, said the official, who asked
not to be identified because he is not authorized to speak
publicly on the matter.  The drop in the real today pared its gain in January to 3.2
percent, still the biggest among the major Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Mantega said today the  exchange rate  isn’t an instrument to
control prices and a weaker currency helps to protect the
domestic industry from foreign competition.  Policy makers swung in 2012 between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real
from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  Fuel Prices  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts rose for the
first time in three days as  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  said it would
increase fuel prices and a report showed inflation slowed less
than forecast, increasing pressure on policy makers to lift
borrowing costs.  Petrobras, as Brazil’s state-controlled oil company is
known, said in a regulatory filing that it will raise gasoline
prices at refineries by 6.6 percent and diesel by 5.4 percent.
The company also said it is seeking to eliminate the discount
between domestic and international prices.  “The gasoline prices increase inflation worries,” Ures Folchini, the head of fixed income at Banco WestLB do Brasil,
said by phone from  Sao Paulo .  The IGP-M inflation index of producer, consumer and
construction prices rose 0.34 percent in the month through Jan.
20 after a previous 0.68 percent gain, the Getulio Vargas
Foundation reported. The median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a 0.32 percent increase.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 climbed four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.91 percent.  Inflation Target  Annual inflation  has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of
the central bank’s target range for 28 consecutive months. The
IPCA index of consumer prices rose 5.84 percent in December from
a year earlier after increasing 5.53 percent in the prior month,
the national statistics agency reported Jan. 10.  The outlook for inflation is getting worse in the “short
term” while the recovery of domestic activity was less intense
than expected, the central bank said in minutes of its Jan.
15-16 policy meeting published last week.  The best way to curb consumer price increases is to keep
the target rate at a record low for a “sufficiently prolonged
period,” policy makers said. The board held its benchmark at
7.25 percent for a second straight meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  