-- Brazil Authorities Say Nightclub Should Never Have Operated
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-01-30T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/brazil-authorities-say-nightclub-should-never-have-operated.html
The Brazilian nightclub where a
weekend blaze killed more than 230 people should never have been
open to the public due to a series of fire code violations,
authorities said.  Fire extinguishers and emergency lighting failed, exits
were inadequate for the number of people in the club, and the
performers used outdoor pyrotechnics without proper
authorization, police inspectors told local media.  “The place was totally inadequate for that type of
activity,” said Airton Michels, secretary of public security in
Rio Grande do Sul state, where Santa Maria is located. “The
nightclub should never have been operating.”  Two of the nightclub owners are jailed and had their assets
frozen by a local judge to ensure possible compensation to
victims, Police Inspector Sandro Meinerz said by telephone from
Santa Maria, the city in southern  Brazil  where the tragedy
occurred. Two band members who have also been detained denied
their fireworks caused the fire.  The fire started in the ceiling’s sound-proofing insulation
and was “probably” caused by a flare, Meinerz said.  Rio Grande do Sul’s government yesterday revised the death
toll up to 235, adding three people not initially counted. Last
night, 87 of the injured remained in intensive care units. While
59 survivors of the fire had been transferred from Santa Maria
to hospitals elsewhere in the state, the condition of some of
injured was still too critical to allow them be moved, a
government press advisor, who declined to be named in accordance
with policy, said.  Lack of Permits  The club didn’t have permission to use fireworks and the
four people detained will be charged with manslaughter at least,
local District Attorney Joel Dutra said in a Jan. 28 telephone
interview.  “They all share in the responsibility,” said Dutra, who
added that additional charges could be leveled against them and
other suspects could be taken into custody. The mother and
sister of one of the detained owners are cooperating with police
and could be charged, Meinerz said.  More than 10,000 mourners dressed in white marched in the
college town on Jan. 29, following the funerals of many of the
victims. Hundreds of students protested in Santa Maria yesterday
demanding justice, tougher fire codes and stricter inspections.  “There are indications not only that the owners are
responsible, but also the municipality and the fire brigade,”
Michels said by telephone from Santa Maria. He noted that half
of the four-meter wide exit had been blocked.  The tragedy, Brazil’s deadliest fire in half a century,
prompted legislators to urge stricter supervision and regulation
of fire prevention, and for cities to step up nightclub
inspections for fire safety equipment.  Video Recordings  The president of Congress’ lower house, Marco Maia, said a
special commission would monitor the investigation and propose a
new federal law.  Video recordings from inside the club that could show if it
was overcrowded can’t be found and admission tickets may have
burned, Meinerz said. The owners said the recording equipment
was ruined in the concert, he said.  President Dilma Rousseff led a minute of silence on Jan. 28
at a gathering of mayors elected last year, and urged policy
makers to draw lessons from the event.  “In the face of that tragedy, we have the duty to ensure
that tragedy never happens again,” Rousseff said.  Most of the victims died from inhaling smoke as the blaze
incited a stampede toward the club’s only exit, leaving hundreds
trapped inside.  “I pulled more than 180 people out of the bathroom,” Edi
Paulo Garcia, a captain in the military brigade that led rescue
efforts, said in an interview with Globo. “They’d been trying
to escape.”  Student Celebrations  The club, known as Kiss, had all the “equipment
necessary” to fight the fire, and management is working with
authorities to investigate, the club said in statement
distributed by law firm Kummel & Kummel.  The club was hosting a party for a group of students from
the Federal University of Santa Maria who were celebrating the
end of their summer break. Among the dead were at least 101 of
its students, the university said on its website.  Some of the club’s security guards initially stopped people
from leaving the premises before paying, witnesses told local
media. Meinerz said their actions are also being investigated.  World Cup  The incident is the worst fire in Brazil since 1961, when
503 people died at a circus in the state of Rio de Janeiro, the
newspaper Folha de S. Paulo  said . Brazil is seeking to improve
its safety record before it hosts the soccer World Cup in 2014.  In 2004, a blaze at a rock concert in Buenos Aires killed
193, and the nightclub owner was convicted of manslaughter. In
the U.S., fireworks led to the death of 100 people at a club in
Warwick, Rhode Island, in 2003 when a pyrotechnics malfunction
ignited foam used as soundproofing on the club’s walls.  The Rhode Island incident brought changes to the state’s
fire code. Officials banned pyrotechnics in most venues and
local fire marshals were empowered to fine violators.
Authorities ordered that sprinklers be installed in nightclubs
and bars with a capacity of more than 100 people, and nightclub
workers were required to receive fire safety training.  Santa Maria, with more than 250,000 residents, is about 800
kilometers (500 miles) southwest of Sao Paulo city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  