-- Brazil CPI Slows Less Than Forecast as Gas Prices Rise
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-01-30T12:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/brazil-s-broadest-inflation-measure-slows-less-than-forecast-1-.html
Brazil ’s broadest measure of
inflation slowed less than analysts expected as the government
struggles to rein in consumer prices that will be pressured by
new fuel price increases. Swap rates rose.  Wholesale, consumer and construction prices, as measured by
the IGP-M price index, rose 0.34 percent this month, down from a
0.68 percent jump in December, the Getulio Vargas Foundation
said on its website today. The gain compares with a median
 estimate  of a 0.32 percent increase from 29 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The index, which is weighted 60 percent in wholesale
prices, rose 7.91 percent in the past 12 months.  President Dilma Rousseff announced this month cuts to
utility rates as part of plan to improve competitiveness and
tame consumer price increases that have exceeded the
government’s 4.5 percent target in the past 28 months. That
opened the door for state-controlled oil company  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  to say yesterday that it would raise gasoline and
diesel prices by 6.6 percent and 5.4 percent, respectively.  The increase in fuel prices is less than Petrobras needs
although “it will be very difficult for the government to
accept new increases, especially when inflation is such a big
problem,”  Pedro Tuesta , chief economist at 4Cast Inc., said by
telephone from  Washington .  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose two basis points to 7.89
percent at 9:24 a.m. local time. The real was little changed at
1.9853 per U.S. dollar.  Inflationary Risks  While inflationary risks have worsened in the “short
term,” Brazil’s economy is recovering slower than expected, the
central bank said in minutes of its Jan. 15-16 policy meeting,
when it kept interest rates at a record low 7.25 percent. The
bank in the minutes forecast a 5 percent increase in gasoline
prices this year and an 11 percent drop in residential power
prices.  The new fuel prices at the refinery will bump prices at the
pump up by 4 percent to 5 percent, adding between 15 and 20
basis points to consumer inflation, said  David Beker , the chief
Brazil economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The gap
between Brazil’s fuel prices and international prices will stand
at about 10 percent after the change that is effective today,
according to Beker.  “No one expected them to clean the whole difference,”
Beker said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “At the end of the day,
given there is still a difference, the government is still using
Petrobras to control inflation.”  Economists in the latest central bank survey forecast
consumer inflation of 5.65 percent this year and 5.5 percent in
2014. Inflation, as measured by the benchmark IPCA-15 index,
accelerated for the fourth straight month through mid-January to
6.02 percent, the fastest pace in a year.  Food Prices  Prices in the IGP-M index were driven by higher consumer
food prices, which rose 2 percent. Wholesale prices fell by 1.4
percent, as compared to a 1.1 percent increase in December,
easing pressure on consumer prices that should rise less than 50
basis points over each of the next three to four months even
when accounting for the fuel price hike, Beker said.  Instead of raising borrowing costs, which could undermine
efforts to boost growth from an estimated 1 percent last year,
the central bank has been focusing its inflation-fighting
efforts on the currency. This week the real has rallied 2.8
percent, past the 2 per dollar barrier for the first time in
almost seven months, as the central bank sold foreign-exchange
swap contracts in a surprise auction.  “As long as inflation doesn’t remain sticky at 6 percent
to 6.5 percent, Brazil’s central bank probably won’t act,” Neil Shearing, chief  emerging markets  economist at Capital Economics
Ltd., said by telephone from  London . “There’s an acknowledgment
that to get inflation down to target there would have to be
tighter monetary policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  