-- Real Declines as Mantega Says Brazil Poised to Curb Appreciation
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-01-30T16:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/brazil-real-drops-as-mantega-says-weaker-currency-helps-industry.html
Brazil ’s real declined for the first
time in six days as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the
government is ready to block exaggerated gains in the currency.  Mantega commented in Brasilia today after the real rallied
beyond 2 per dollar on Jan. 28 for the first time in almost
seven months as the central bank intervened to boost the
currency as inflation accelerated.  The real depreciated 0.3 percent to 1.9908 per dollar at
1:54 p.m. in Sao Paulo, paring its rally this month to 3
percent, still the biggest among major Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Swap rates due in January 2014 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.20 percent.  “The government isn’t giving clear signals on what the
exchange-rate regime is,” Marcelo Fonseca, an economist at M
Safra & Co. in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “Is it
floating or administered within a currency band? It has to be
one or the other. This creates uncertainty.”  Mantega said the  exchange rate  isn’t an instrument to
control prices and a weaker currency helps to protect the
domestic industry from foreign competition.  The currency rallied the most in seven months on Jan. 28 as
the central bank sold $1.85 billion of foreign-exchange swap
contracts at an auction that surprised traders.  Policy makers swung in 2012 between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by preventing the
real from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  Fuel Prices  Yields on most interest-rate futures contracts rose as the
state oil company said it would increase fuel prices and a
report showed inflation slowed less than economists forecast,
adding pressure on the central bank to raise borrowing costs.  Petroleo Brasilieiro SA said in a regulatory filing that it
is increasing gasoline prices at refineries by 6.6 percent and
diesel by 5.4 percent and is seeking to eliminate the discount
between domestic and international prices.  “The gasoline prices increase inflation worries,” Ures Folchini, the head of fixed income at Banco WestLB do Brasil,
said by phone from  Sao Paulo .  The IGP-M index of producer, consumer and construction
prices rose 0.34 percent in the month through Jan. 20 after
previously climbing 0.68 percent, the Getulio Vargas Foundation
reported today. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 0.32 percent increase.  Inflation Target  Annual inflation  has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of
the central bank’s target range for 28 consecutive months. The
IPCA index of consumer prices rose 5.84 percent in December from
a year earlier after increasing 5.53 percent in the prior
period, the national statistics agency reported Jan. 10.  The outlook for inflation is getting worse in the “short
term” while the recovery of domestic activity was less intense
than expected, the central bank said in minutes of its Jan.
15-16 policy meeting published last week.  The best way to curb consumer price increases is to keep
the target rate at a record low for a “sufficiently prolonged
period,” policy makers said. The board held its benchmark at
7.25 percent for a second straight meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  