-- Brazil Ready to Fix Exaggerated Currency Gains, Mantega Says
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-01-30T17:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/brazil-ready-to-fix-exaggerated-currency-gains-mantega-says-1-.html
Brazil ’s government is ready to
prevent the  exchange rate  from having exaggerated gains, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said today, after the real this week
strengthened to beyond 2 per dollar for the first time since
July.  The real shouldn’t be used as a tool to reduce prices, and
a weaker currency helps make domestic industry more competitive,
Mantega said.  Brazil’s exchange rate had the third-biggest gain amid
major currencies this year as traders anticipated the central
bank would allow the real to strengthen in a bid to tame
consumer prices. Today, after Mantega said the policy adopted
since 2010 of keeping the currency weaker isn’t changing, the
real reverted earlier gains and dropped.  “If there’s an exaggeration in the exchange rate, we are
here to fix it,” Mantega said today during an event in
Brasilia. “It’s a policy that won’t allow a speculative
appreciation of the real. I alert the navigators: it’s here to
stay, don’t get excited.”  The currency was free to float, as long as it remained at a
level that benefited Brazilian industry, Mantega said.  The real weakened 0.1 percent to 1.9879 per  U.S. dollar  at
3:49 p.m. local time, its first drop in six days. The currency
pared an earlier 0.7 percent decline after the central bank held
a dollar auction.  The real has gained 3.2 percent this year, the best
performer among the 16 most traded currencies.  Brazil would also not use the currency as a policy to
contain inflationary pressure, Mantega said, predicting that
this week’s 6.6 percent gasoline price increase at refineries
would add 0.16 percentage point to the IPCA consumer  price
index .  Brazil’s broadest measures of inflation slowed less than
analysts expected in January, the Getulio Vargas Foundation said
today. Wholesale, consumer and construction prices, as measured
by the IGP-M price index, rose 0.34 percent this month, down
from a 0.68 percent jump in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  