-- Buffett ‘Magic’ Assists Iscar in Bid to Double Tools Business
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   E l l i o t t   G o t k i n e
-- 2013-01-30T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/buffett-magic-assists-iscar-in-bid-to-double-tools-business.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s
International Metalworking Cos. is seeking to double sales and
profit and is counting on  Warren Buffett , its “No. 1
salesman,” to help it meet that goal.  “When you go around the world with him it’s like magic,”
Eitan Wertheimer, chairman of the Tefen, Israel-based company,
said in an interview in Caesarea broadcast today on Bloomberg
TV. Wertheimer has traveled with 82-year-old Buffett to India,
 China  and Japan. The business “couldn’t afford” not to have
him come along, Wertheimer said.  The company, known as Iscar, was founded in 1952 by Eitan’s
father Stef Wertheimer from an old rented shack. It makes
cutting gear for industries including aerospace and auto
manufacturing. Buffett’s Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire paid $4
billion in 2006 for an 80 percent stake in the company, which
has about 11,000 employees worldwide.  “I would love to see Iscar doubling itself,” said Eitan
Wertheimer, 61, declining to provide a time frame or financial
details on the company. “I think we have a good chance to
double ourselves.”  It will probably take Wertheimer a decade to meet his goal,
said Martin Prozesky, a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein.  Iscar controls about 8 percent of the market, compared with
about 20 percent held by competitor  Sandvik AB (SAND) , Prozesky said.
“Positioning yourself as a good growth brand in China is a key
challenge,” he added.  Israel  is seeking to boost sales to fast-growing economies
such as China as  Europe  continues to struggle and global trade
has slowed. Exports account for about 40 percent of Israel’s
gross domestic product.  Even with slower growth, China is “an amazing market” for
Iscar, Wertheimer said.  Buffett’s involvement is a “huge” endorsement for Iscar
and “definitely helps them gain new customers,” Prozesky said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Elliott Gotkine in London at 
 egotkine@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  