-- Cameron Urged by Labour to Visit Food Banks as Economy Shrinks
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-01-30T15:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/cameron-urged-by-labour-to-visit-food-banks-as-economy-shrinks.html
Lawmakers from Britain’s opposition
Labour Party urged Prime Minister David Cameron to visit a food
bank to understand the hardship faced by families and accused
him of doing too little to help the economy.  Labour leader Ed Miliband used the parliamentary offensive
during the weekly question session with the prime minister to
attack the government’s record after data last week showed the
economy teetering on the edge of a triple-dip recession. Two
Labour lawmakers urged Cameron to visit food banks in their
district as they tried to highlight the effect of the slump.  “What’s his excuse this time?” Miliband asked Cameron in
the House of Commons in  London  today. “We have had a flat-
lining economy which means people’s living standards are
falling.”  The U.K. has recovered half of the economic output lost
during the 2008-2009 recession as inflation outpaces incomes,
government spending cuts bite and the euro-region debt crisis
saps demand in the biggest market for British goods. Britain’s
economy shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter, more than
economists forecast.  Cameron said there are signs that the economy is
recovering, citing a fall in jobless figures and that Britain
will grow more quickly than any other “major European” economy
this year.  “There’s nothing complacent about this government,”
Cameron said. “There have been 1 million new private sector
jobs. In the last year alone, half a million new jobs have been
created -- that’s fastest rate of job creation since 1989.”  Labour lawmakers Dave Watts and Frank Roy today added to
the weekly campaign from the rank and file of the party calling
for Cameron to visit a food bank.  “Why is it the case that the prime minister is frightened
to go and visit a food bank,” Watts said. “Could it be that if
he visits one he would see the heartless Britain that he is
creating?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  