-- Canadian Dollar Fluctuates as U.S. Economy Contracts
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-01-30T22:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/canadian-dollar-falls-as-european-confidence-survey-jumps.html
Canada ’s dollar traded close to a
six-month low versus its U.S. counterpart as data showed the
economy of the nation’s largest trading partner unexpectedly
shrank in the fourth quarter.  The Canadian pared losses after the U.S. Federal Reserve
said it will keep buying bonds as the economy paused because of
temporary forces including bad weather. Canada’s gross domestic
product figures tomorrow are forecast to show growth increased
to 0.2 percent in November from 0.1 percent the month before,
according to the median estimate of a Bloomberg survey of 24
economists.  “When the data came out, the headline looked dismal,”
said Emanuella Enenajor, an economist at CIBC World Markets by
phone from Toronto. “But some key sectors anticipated to lead
the U.S. recovery were quite strong, so that’s where you saw the
Canadian dollar gain ground in the post knee-jerk reaction.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed at
C$1.0014 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after earlier
falling 0.4 percent to C$1.0053. One loonie buys 99.86 U.S.
cents. The currency touched C$1.01 on Jan. 28, the weakest level
since July 27.  Oil, Stocks  Crude oil, the country’s largest export, added 0.5 percent
to $98.04 per barrel and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
stocks fell 0.4 percent.  The country’s benchmark 10-year bonds were little changed,
with  yields of 2 percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in
June 2022 were unchanged at C$106.41.  The Bank of Canada sold C$2.9 billion ($2.9 billion) of 1.5
percent notes due in June 2023 at an average yield of 2.112
percent. The bank received bids totaling C$6.2 billion.  The Fed will keep purchasing securities at the rate of $85
billion a month. The U.S. central bank is buying unlimited
amounts of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities in a bid to
end a four-year long period of unemployment above 7.5 percent
and bolster an economy that shrank 0.1 percent in the fourth
quarter.  “This reinforces a dovish Fed, however most of the key
parts of the statement are essentially identical, the only
change is that there is a pause in economic activity but it is
blamed on transitory or temporary factors,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  by
phone from Toronto.  The U.S. economy was restrained by the biggest plunge in
defense spending in four decades and dwindling inventory growth
as household purchases picked up, Commerce Department figures
showed.  Headline Risk  “It looks like risk sentiment overall is taking a bit of a
hit after the U.S. GDP numbers,”  said David Watt, chief
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. by phone from Toronto. “You
begin to wonder where the bounce for the Canadian economy is
going to come from.”  The Bank of Canada held its 1 percent interest rate when it
met last week, revising down growth forecasts and saying rate
increase were “less imminent” given the slowing economy.  Investors trimmed bets the Bank of Canada would boost
interest rates this year following the announcement. They now
price in 3.1 basis points of tightening by the Bank’s September
meeting compared with 6.8 basis points before last week’s
announcement, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
overnight index swaps.  The Canadian dollar fell 0.6 percent to C$1.3589 per euro
as economic confidence in the euro area improved, adding to
signs that the 17-nation currency bloc may be emerging from a
recession.  Euro Conditions  An index of executive and consumer  sentiment  rose to 89.2
from a revised 87.8 in December, the European Commission in
Brussels said today. That’s the highest since June. Economists
forecast an increase to 88.2, according to the median of 30
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “It’s certainly a theme the euro is gaining today against
every other currency, including the Canadian dollar,” said Adam Cole, head of global currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada,
by phone from  London . “It’s playing out specifically in
European risk premium rather than global risk premium. I’m not
sure why that’s the case exactly, but it does rationalize why
it’s not spilling into currencies that typically win on risk-on
days.”  The loonie will strengthen to 98 cents per U.S. dollar by
the end of the March and 97 cents by the end of the year,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
45 analysts and strategists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  