-- Cashbuild Falls Most in Four Years on Sales: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2013-01-30T16:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/cashbuild-falls-most-in-four-years-on-sales-johannesburg-mover.html
Cashbuild Ltd. (CSB)  fell the most in more
than four years after the South African building-materials
distributor said sales growth slowed in the second quarter.  The stock declined 7.9 percent, the most since June 2008,
to 136.68 rand by the close in Johannesburg. It is the biggest
loser on the 11-member FTSE/JSE Africa General Retailers Index.
About 220,000 shares changed hands, or more than 4.5 times the
daily average over the past three months.  Sales rose 1 percent year-on-year in the three months
through December, compared with a 9 percent advance in the same
period in 2011, the company said in a statement today. Sales
from stores open for more than a year fell 1 percent.  “If you strip out inflationary effect, it’s certainly far
below expectation and it shows a softening in consumer spend and
in demand in the sector,” Keith McLachlan, a senior equities
analyst for small- and mid-cap companies at Thebe Stockbroking
in Johannesburg, said by phone.  Several South African retailers including  Shoprite Holdings
Ltd. (SHP)  and  Mr Price Group Ltd. (MPC)  have published weaker-than-expected
sales updates this month as slower economic growth and
unemployment of 25.5 percent weighed on  consumer spending .
Cashbuild now trades at 10.9 times reported earnings, down from
11.8 times yesterday. The General Retailers index trades on 18.6
times reported earnings, down from 21 times on Jan. 7.  “We have seen this across the board in retailers, where
very high market expectations, arguably driven by foreign buying
over the last couple of years, have led to strong re-ratings in
their share prices,” McLachlan said. “The results coming out
aren’t keeping up with these high market ratings and, hence, the
sell-offs in the stocks.”  Cashbuild’s 30-day historical  volatility , a measure of
stock swings, increased to 33.3 from 22.5 yesterday. The
FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index’s 30-day volatility gauge was at
8.74 from 8.53 previously. A higher reading means an asset price
can have bigger moves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  