-- MCC Contributes $858 Million to Blow Out at Citic Iron Ore Mine
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-01-30T23:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/mcc-contributes-858-million-to-blow-out-at-citic-iron-ore-mine.html
Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd. ,
the contractor building the world’s largest magnetite iron ore
mine for  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267)  in  Australia , said it would
contribute $858 million after construction costs blew out.  Metallurgical will provide the money “to drive the project
forward,” the Beijing-based company said late yesterday in a
statement. Citic Pacific noted the comment in a separate
statement, saying an independent assessor will determine the
costs incurred by Metallurgical and “render an opinion on
whether they were reasonable.”  Citic Pacific and Metallurgical, known as MCC, have been in
dispute over delays and cost increases at Sino Iron, with  Citic
announcing last year a more than fourfold blowout to the budget
to $8 billion. MCC said in a separate statement that the
provision will result in a 3.1 billion  yuan  ($498 million)
charge in its 2012 accounts, contributing to a 7.2 billion yuan
annual loss.  “The nature of most large-scale projects usually results
in certain claims by both the contractor and his employer and
these are typically resolved at the completion of the project,”
Citic Pacific said in its statement.  The first line at Sino Iron is now producing iron ore
concentrate, with the first shipment expected next month, Citic
Pacific said. The company aims to complete line two by May.
Output was originally slated to begin in the first half of 2011,
shipping to steel mills in China. Citic Pacific blamed
difficulties in planning, construction and transportation for
the increase in costs and delays.  Palmer Dispute  Citic Pacific, controlled by  China ’s biggest state-owned
investment company, rose 2.6 percent to HK$12.84 yesterday,
trimming its loss in the past 12 months to 12 percent. MCC fell
1.1 percent, for a decline of 4.4 percent in the past year.  Australian mining magnate Clive Palmer sold the rights to
the project to Citic Pacific in 2007 for $200 million. Palmer,
who is also developing coal assets in Australia, stands to
receive monthly royalty payments from the operation. That
relationship has since soured, with Citic Pacific last year
winning an injunction to stop Palmer’s Mineralogy Pty Ltd. from
terminating mining right and site lease agreements. A court
hearing is expected to take place this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  