-- Chavez’s 681% Returns Mean Socialism Buoys Goldman: Andes Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-01-30T15:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/chavez-s-681-bond-returns-buoy-goldman-andes-credit-correct-.html
Since taking office in 1999,  Hugo Chavez  has spread his socialist revolution in  Venezuela  by
seizing more than 1,000 companies. For bondholders that stuck by
him, he’s also delivered returns that are double the emerging-
market average.  The  681 percent advance , equal to 14.7 percent annually,
has enriched investors from OppenheimerFunds Inc. to Goldman
Sachs Asset Management LP that counted on Chavez’s willingness
to siphon the country’s oil wealth to pay its creditors in the
face of start-stop growth and  falling reserves . While his
policies drove away enough investors to keep Venezuela’s
 borrowing costs  over 12 percent on average during his tenure, or
4 percentage points higher than those of  developing nations ,
he’s never missed a bond payment.  “This is a really great high-income and high-total-return
investment for your portfolio,” said  Sara Zervos , an emerging-
market debt manager at New York-based OppenheimerFunds, which
oversees $176 billion in assets and has invested in Venezuelan
notes for more than a decade. “Chavez hasn’t done a lot of good
for his country, but he has the objective to service the bonds.
Our interests are aligned.”  Now, as the 58-year-old leader battles cancer, the nation’s
outsized returns may be nearing an end. While Venezuela’s
benchmark bonds have climbed to a five-year high since Chavez
said on Dec. 8 that he needed more surgery, they’re unlikely to
replicate the gains they’ve posted in the past decade once the
rally drives yields down closer in line with regional peers,
according to  Russell Dallen , the head trader at Caracas Capital
Markets.  Missed Inauguration  Chavez’s deteriorating health has triggered a 41 percent
bond gain in the past year on speculation that a new regime will
retreat from policies that curtailed oil production in the
country that holds the world’s largest reserves.  Chavez missed the inauguration for his third six-year term
on Jan. 10 as he recovered from surgery to treat an undisclosed
type of cancer. Information Minister Ernesto Villegas told
reporters on Jan. 27 that the president is healthy enough to
make economic policy decisions.  A former paratrooper and an ally of former Cuban President
 Fidel Castro , Chavez has nationalized farms and energy
companies, imposed price caps on products such as toothpaste and
toilet paper and championed companies where workers participate
in decision-making. He has devalued the bolivar four times since
imposing currency controls in 2003, shut down more than 50
foreign-exchange brokerages in 2010 and threatened to jail
people who trade in the black market.  Oil Surge  The policies have led to shortages of everything from
electricity to sugar and beef, fueled the world’s third-highest
inflation rate and inflated Venezuelan bond yields. That’s
rewarded investors willing to buy the debt at discounted prices.  Interest-rate payments on Venezuelan bonds exceeded price
gains by 1.4 times since 1999, versus 0.3 for Brazilian bonds
and 1.09 for Mexican securities, according to data compiled by
Bank of America Corp.  Chavez has made good on debt payments as crude  oil prices 
surged to $97 a barrel from $12 in 1998. The government will
earn about $81 billion from oil exports this year, almost 10
times the amount of interest-rate payments and debt redemptions
from the government and state-owned oil company Petroleos de
Venezuela SA, known as PDVSA, according to Citigroup Inc.  At 22 percent of gross domestic product, Venezuela’s net
government debt is lower than the median level of 36 percent
among similar-rated countries, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  ‘More Fragile’  “While the story has been deteriorating, Venezuela will
continue to pay their debt,” Sam Finkelstein, an emerging-
market bond manager at Goldman Sachs Asset Management in  New
York , said in a telephone interview on Jan. 25. “The situation
will have to be much tighter, more fragile for a default to be
likely.”  Finkelstein has been an investor in Venezuelan bonds over
the past 15 years.  Venezuelan bonds accounted for about 6.7 percent of the
holdings of Goldman Sachs’s $2.9 billion  Growth & Emerging
Markets Debt Fund (GSEMKDP) , the third-biggest investment, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund returned 12.8 percent over
the past three years, outperforming 90 percent of its peers.  While calling debt the tool used by the U.S. “empire” to
exploit Venezuela, Chavez honored his obligations even after a
three-month nationwide strike in 2003 all but shut down the
country’s oil industry and caused  the economy  to shrink 7.6
percent that year. He made an interest payment on a bond that is
tied to oil prices in 2005 after a four-month delay prompted S&P
to temporally downgrade Venezuela’s credit rating to selective
default.  ‘Makes Noise’  Chavez paid off the debt because non-payment would lead
creditors to seize Venezuelan oil shipments, which supply half
of the government’s revenue, according to Simon Nocera, a former
economist at the  International Monetary Fund . Bond investors can
also freeze Venezuelan assets overseas, including refineries and
gas stations of Citgo Petroleum Corp., a subsidiary of PDVSA, he
said.  “Chavez makes noise, but he will never come out and say:
‘We are going to restructure our bonds,’” Nocera, now chief
investment officer at Lumen Advisors LLC, said in a telephone
interview from  San Francisco  on Jan. 23. “He knows if he does,
he won’t sell the only product that allows him to survive.
There’s no reason to be scared.”  Default Swaps  The  Finance Ministry  declined to comment on the country’s
bond performance in an e-mailed response to questions.  Investors have had to endure swings in the value of
Venezuela’s bonds to reap their gains. Their  yield  relative to
Treasuries touched an all-time low of 163 basis points, or 1.63
percentage points, in May 2006, before spiking to 1,887 in
December 2008. Investors demand an extra yield of 722 basis
points to hold Venezuelan bonds instead of Treasuries yesterday,
versus 319 basis points for  Sri Lanka  and 307 for Zambia.  While the average yields on Venezuelan bonds have fallen to
the lowest since January 2008, their current 9.04 percent level
is still double the  emerging-market average  of 4.49 percent,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. At 605 basis points yesterday,
the country’s five-year credit-default swaps suggest a 35
percent chance that Venezuela will default by 2018, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The spreads reflect the risk existing in the Venezuelan
economy, and the perception of that risk is real,” Francisco Rodriguez-Caballero, an economist at Bank of America, said in a
telephone interview on Jan. 23. “You are always happy when you
win, but that doesn’t mean it’s a bet that you should feel
comfortable making.”  Zambia Levels  Venezuela’s credit rating of B+ at S&P is four levels below
investment grade and on a par with those of Zambia and Sri
Lanka.  Brazil , which was ranked the same as Venezuela 14 years
ago, has been upgraded five steps to BBB.  Goldman Sachs’s Finkelstein said he still holds a
“modest” overweight position in Venezuelan bonds as the
economy is likely to improve after Chavez relinquishes power.  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuela bonds
instead of Treasuries will narrow to about 500 basis points
should the opposition win presidential elections in the post-
Chavez era, leaving them at levels similar to those of Ukraine,
he said. Venezuelan bonds traded at a spread of 722 basis points
over Treasuries at 10:29 a.m. in New York, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index.  ‘Significant Cushion’  The constitution states that elections must be held within
30 days should Chavez step down or die. Vice President  Nicolas Maduro , a Chavez ally, is running the government in his absence.
Henrique Capriles Radonski, who lost to Chavez in October, leads
the opposition party Primero Justicia.  “Investors are expecting a regime change,” Finkelstein
said. “The new government will be more pragmatic and less
idealist, and bondholders can benefit.”  Unlike Venezuela, other Latin American countries including
Brazil, Panama and  Peru  rewarded bondholders with gains fueled
by economic growth, slowing inflation and surging foreign
reserves.  Brazilian bonds  returned 662 percent during the past
14 years.  The rally has squeezed most of the gains out of Brazilian
bonds, leaving Venezuelan securities as a more attractive
option, according to Oppenheimer’s Zervos.  “For Brazil, we just don’t think there’s a lot of
upside,” Zervos said. “Chavez squandered a lot of money, but
there’s still significant cushion and the ability to pay is
still there. The spreads can definitely compress more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net 
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  