-- Chesapeake CEO Resigns After Scrutiny on Personal Loans
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-01-30T21:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/chesapeake-ceo-resigns-after-scrutiny-on-personal-loans.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s (CHK)  departing
chief executive officer will leave to his successor a shrunken,
cash-starved version of what was once the preeminent natural gas
producer in the world’s biggest market for the fuel.  Aubrey McClendon’s agreement to resign effective April 1
culminated a shareholder revolt by  Carl Icahn  and Southeastern
Asset Management Inc.’s O. Mason Hawkins that earlier had cost
the CEO the chairmanship he’d held for more than two decades.
McClendon also relinquished his annual bonus and saw executive
perks curtailed amid federal investigations of a portfolio of
personal loans that topped $840 million.  Chesapeake climbed 6 percent to $20.11 at the close in  New
York , after earlier reaching $21.20 for the biggest intraday
gain in almost nine months.  Chesapeake lost as much as 43 percent of its market value
in 2012 as scrutiny of McClendon’s financial transactions
destroyed investor confidence in management and cratering gas
prices drained the company of cash. Unfinished tasks facing the
next CEO include raising $8 billion from asset sales this year
to plug a funding shortfall, and converting a company that pumps
enough gas to supply 20 percent of American household demand
into an oil producer.  “Companies have life cycles and during various stages it
can make sense for some people to leave,”  Philip Weiss , an
analyst at Argus Research Corp. in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “ Aubrey McClendon  was very good at accumulating land
but now that Chesapeake is moving into an asset-harvesting mode,
they must have decided they needed someone with another set of
skills.”  Board Investigation  An internal board investigation of McClendon’s use of his
stakes in thousands of company-owned wells to secure personal
loans so far has found nothing improper, Chesapeake said in a
statement yesterday released after the close of regular trading.  “The imminent departure of CEO McClendon proves that major
strategy changes are likely, and we envision a reduced spending
environment that is less reliant on asset sales,” Tim Rezvan,
an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in New York, who has a
neutral rating on Chesapeake shares, wrote in a note to clients
today.  Chesapeake’s 6.775 percent bonds due to mature in March
2019 fell 1.001 cents to 99.749 cents on the dollar to yield
6.824 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Archie Dunham, the former ConocoPhillips chief who replaced
McClendon as chairman in June, thanked the outgoing CEO for his
“enormous achievements,” in an e-mail to employees. The
company isn’t for sale and employee perks such as on-site
childcare and a fitness center at the company’s  Oklahoma City 
headquarters won’t be discontinued, Dunham wrote.  ‘Philosophical Differences’  In a separate e-mail to Chesapeake employees, McClendon
attributed his imminent departure to “certain philosophical
differences” between him and the board without elaborating.
Dunham and McClendon declined to be interviewed for this story,
according to Michael Kehs, a Chesapeake spokesman.  Icahn and Hawkins, who together control 22 percent of
Chesapeake’s stock, pushed for McClendon’s resignation after
concluding his presence and the controversy surrounding his
personal business deals was hurting the company’s share price, a
person with knowledge of the discussions said. Icahn and Hawkins
didn’t immediately respond to messages left at their offices
after normal business hours yesterday.  Company Founder  McClendon, 53, led Chesapeake from its 1989 inception in
Oklahoma City, amassing U.S. gas and oil fields that cover an
area equivalent to half the size of New York state. As one of
the first explorers to embrace horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing, McClendon helped usher in a revival of U.S. gas and
oil production with discoveries such as the Haynesville Shale in
 Louisiana  and Utica Shale in  Ohio .  The success of the drilling methods led to a glut of North
American gas that drove prices to a 10-year low in early 2012,
causing Chesapeake to cut jobs, curtail  capital spending  and
sell about $11 billion in oilfields and pipelines to help close
a gap between  cash flow  and drilling expenses. The company lost
$1.07 billion during the first three quarters of last year and
net debt ballooned by 56 percent during that period to $16.1
billion.  The board will release final results of its review of
McClendon’s financial transactions on Feb. 21, when announcing
fourth-quarter results.  Smooth Transition  “While I have certain philosophical differences with the
new board, I look forward to working collaboratively with the
company and the board to provide a smooth transition to new
leadership,” McClendon said in the statement.  McClendon’s departure under a mutual agreement with the
board will be treated as a “termination without cause” rather
than a retirement, said a person with knowledge of his departure
terms, who spoke on the condition that he not be identified.  Those terms will entitle McClendon to compensation
including $34 million in accelerated vesting of restricted stock
that he was awarded previously, and about $12 million in cash
severance and benefits to be paid out over four years, the
person said.  A retirement before Dec. 31 of this year, according to a
May filing detailing severance terms, would have required
McClendon to repay part of a special $75 million cash payment
the company awarded him in 2008. The “clawback” would be worth
about $11 million based on an April departure, according to a
formula disclosed in the filing.  No Clawback  Based on the terms of a termination without cause,
Chesapeake won’t collect any clawbacks from McClendon in
connection with his resignation, the person with knowledge of
the matter said.  McClendon’s denouement may signal Chesapeake is preparing
to sell new bonds to refinance older, more expensive debt, Gregg Brody and Jason Homler, JP Morgan Chase & Co. credit analysts,
said in a note to clients.  “The company may have wanted to wait until this
announcement occurred,” Brody and Homler wrote in the note
yesterday. The company “is likely to tap the  capital markets  to
term out debt” before additional cash-generating asset sales
are finalized.  Chesapeake lagged U.S. energy producers such as  Devon
Energy Corp. (DVN)  in shifting rigs from gas fields to higher-profit
oil prospects, leaving the company more vulnerable to slumping
gas prices.  “You can be the smartest guys in the room but you may be
in the wrong room,” McClendon said during a March interview in
a restaurant on the company’s Oklahoma City campus. “It’s not
enough to be the smartest guys in the room. Sometimes you have
to be hungry, sometimes you have to be lucky, and you have to be
open to change.”  Well-Investment Program  McClendon’s fall from grace began in April after media
reports spotlighted personal loans he obtained using minority
stakes in company-owned wells that he had been allowed to gather
for his private portfolio. Chesapeake stock lost 20 percent of
its value that month as scrutiny of McClendon’s personal
transactions compounded the impact of free-falling prices on a
company whose output was more than 80 percent gas.  Under an executive perk designed to align McClendon’s
personal interests with those of the company, the CEO acquired
stakes as large as 2.5 percent in almost every well Chesapeake
drilled during the past 24 years. McClendon took out loans
backed by his well stakes to fund his portion of costs. At the
end of 2011, he owed $846 million on those loans, the company
reported on April 26.  Some of the loans came from companies that were involved in
separate financial transactions with Chesapeake. The  Internal
Revenue Service  and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
began probes.  Board Changes  In addition to deposing McClendon from the chairmanship,
Icahn and Hawkins installed new board members to intensify
oversight of a management team that outspent cash flow in 19 of
the past 21 years. Chesapeake said last year it would halt the
well-investment program at the center of McClendon’s loan
portfolio next year rather than the original termination date at
the end of 2015.  “Aubrey has every right to be proud of the company he has
built, the world-class team of people at Chesapeake and the
collection of assets he has assembled, which in my opinion, are
the best portfolio of energy assets in the country,” Icahn said
in a statement yesterday.  McClendon raised more than $30 billion since 2008 selling
burgeoning shale assets to companies including  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , Paris-based  Total SA (FP)  and Cnooc Ltd.,  China ’s largest
offshore energy producer.  “I have the utmost confidence in you and the company’s
future and I will always treasure the time we have spent
together building Chesapeake into the unique and dynamic company
that it is today,” McClendon said in his e-mail to employees
late yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  