-- Chidambaram Seeks $468 Million From Explorer Sale to Cut Deficit
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-01-30T11:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/chidambaram-seeks-468-million-from-explorer-sale-to-cut-deficit.html
India’s Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram plans to raise at least 25 billion rupees ($468
million) selling a stake in the nation’s second-biggest state
crude oil explorer in an attempt to cut the budget deficit.  A panel of ministers approved the sale of a 10 percent
stake in  Oil India Ltd. (OINL) , Oil Secretary G.C. Chaturvedi told
reporters in New Delhi today. The sale will be held on Feb. 1.
The minimum price for the shares will be communicated to stock
exchanges after the close of trading tomorrow, he said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and Chidambaram from
September started a series of measures including allowing
foreign investment in supermarkets and raising diesel prices in
an attempt to boost growth, cut subsidies and avoid a downgrade
of the nation’s debt rating. The government has raised 67.6
billion rupees, or 23 percent of its share-sale target for the
year ending March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales are planned in companies such as electricity producer  NTPC
Ltd. (NTPC)  and  Steel Authority of India Ltd.   Oil India declined 2.3 percent to 526.35 rupees at the
close in Mumbai today. The shares have surged 13 percent this
year, outperforming a 3 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index. (SENSEX)   The stock increased after a panel led by Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chief of the prime minister’s Economic Advisory
Council, last month recommended natural gas prices in India be
linked to overseas rates. If the proposal is accepted, prices
will double and help explorers including Oil India,  Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  and  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)   NMDC Sale  The government raised 58.3 billion rupees selling a 10
percent stake in  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC)  last month, the third-biggest share
sale in India in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government owns a 78.4 percent stake in Oil India,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chidambaram plans to narrow the budget deficit to 5.3
percent of gross domestic product this financial year, compared
with 5.8 percent last year. The government raised train fares
and diesel prices this month to help reduce the shortfall.  Asia’s third-biggest economy will expand 5.5 percent in the
year through March 2013, less than an earlier estimate of 5.8
percent, the Reserve Bank of India said this week. That would be
the slowest pace since 2003.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddhartha Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  