-- Chile Hit by 6.8-Magnitude Temblor; No Major Damage Reported
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-01-30T22:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/chile-struck-by-6-7-magnitude-quake-with-no-damage-reported-1-.html
Chile ’s center-north region was
struck by a 6.8-magnitude earthquake as initial reports showed
the world’s top copper producer suffering only minor damage.  The U.S. Geological Survey said on its website the quake,
initially measured at a magnitude of 6.7, struck at a depth of
28 miles. The  “medium-intensity”  temblor, which was felt 375
miles to the south in Santiago, hit at 5:17 p.m. local time, the
state emergency service known as Onemi said on its website. So
far there are no reports of injuries or major damage.  Television images showed supermarket floors littered with
broken bottles. Onemi, which has reported two aftershocks so
far, is in touch with residents and mining companies to evaluate
the extent of the damage.  “People took care of themselves even before authorities
could get information out, which undoubtedly makes a difference
in quakes of this type,” Miguel Ortiz, head of Onemi’s response
unit, told reporters in images transmitted by TV. “We’re
calling on people to remain calm.”  The Andean nation in February 2010 was hit by an 8.8-
magnitude earthquake that, together with a tsunami, caused
hundreds of deaths and billions of dollars in damage. Today’s
quake doesn’t meet the conditions to create a tsunami, according
to the Chilean navy.  There were incidents of voltage drops in the region and
traffic jams, Ortiz said, adding that mining companies haven’t
reported any injuries. Most of Chile’s mines are in its northern
region.  Codelco, the state-owned copper producer, has had no
reports so far of damage to its mines, an official said by
phone. Marcelo Esquivel, a spokesman for  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  in
Santiago, said by e-mail there were no reports of injuries or
damage and that, as is customary following quakes, the company
has halted some work at the Mantoverde mine to inspect equipment
and installation.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  has no reports of damage, Rosario Cuevas, a
communications specialist at Nexos Comunicaciones who represents
the mining company, said after talking to an Antofagasta
official. A spokesman for  Barrick Gold Corp (ABX)  didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on any impact on the company’s
operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  