-- China Money Rate Rises to Three-Week High on Holiday Cash Demand
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-01-30T03:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/china-money-rate-rises-to-three-week-high-on-holiday-cash-demand.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
climbed to a three-week high as demand for cash increased ahead
of the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday that starts Feb. 11.  The People’s Bank of China today gauged appetite for an
offering of seven-day reverse repurchase agreements tomorrow,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions. The monetary authority issued 80 billion  yuan  ($12.9
billion) of the contracts yesterday at 3.35 percent.  “There is demand for cash ahead of the holidays,” said
 Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole
CIB. “Given the PBOC’s willingness to do reverse repos more
frequently, big spikes in rates may be avoided.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 11 basis points to 3.22 percent as of
10:48 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled
by the National Interbank Funding Center. That’s the highest
level since Jan. 7. The rate has fallen 136 basis points, or
1.36 percentage point, in January, headed for the first drop in
four months.  The PBOC said Jan. 18 it will start daily short-term
liquidity operations as additional tools to manage cash supply.
The so-called SLOs, which involve contracts maturing in less
than seven days, will supplement regular open-market operations
held each Tuesday and Thursday.  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, was
steady at 3.18 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It fell 16 basis points this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  