-- China Must Accelerate Reform to Avoid Hard Landing, Roach Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-30T04:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/china-must-accelerate-reform-to-avoid-hard-landing-roach-says.html
China’s new leaders must act now to
accelerate changes to the world’s second-biggest economy or risk
heightened vulnerability to an external shock, said  Stephen Roach , former non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley in  Asia .  “The message to China’s new leadership is unmistakable:
There has never been a more urgent time to get on with the heavy
lifting of rebalancing and reform,” Roach, a senior fellow at
 Yale University , wrote in an article dated yesterday on the
Project Syndicate website. “Now is the time to implement the
measures that will accelerate the transition to a more consumer-
led economy.”  Roach’s remarks mark a shift from his previous less-
reserved optimism on China, including an August piece saying
that the nation’s slowdown would remain contained “for the
foreseeable future” and that concerns were “overblown” that
 expansion  would run out of steam. Now  China’s economy  has become
less stable and the balance of investment to consumption has
worsened, Roach wrote this week.  “Without rebalancing and reforms, the days of the
automatic Chinese soft landing may be over,” wrote Roach, 67.
“I have been an optimist about China for 15 years. I still am.
But the clock is ticking.”  Chinese leaders have pledged since at least 2006 to
reorient the economy toward  consumer spending  and reduce the
reliance on exports and investment to make expansion more
sustainable. Growth picked up for the first time in two years in
the final quarter of 2012, marking what Roach called the second
“soft landing” in less than four years.  Authorities must address issues such as developing services
industries, funding the social safety net and altering the
residential-registration system, Roach wrote. “Failure to act
quickly on this program would leave  China  far too vulnerable to
the inevitable next shock in a crisis-battered world,” he wrote.  --Zheng Lifei, with assistance from Kevin Hamlin in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Andrew Joyce  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  