-- Citizenship Path Possible Hurdle to Immigration Rewrite
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-01-30T14:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/citizenship-path-possible-hurdle-to-immigration-rewrite.html
Providing a path to citizenship for
11 million undocumented immigrants is emerging as a potential
stumbling block to rewriting U.S. immigration policy.  Republican senators who endorsed a bipartisan framework for
the most significant revision of immigration law in almost three
decades criticized a White House plan for not requiring tighter
border security as a condition of a path to citizenship.  “One of the things that’s very important to me is to make
sure that the enforcement mechanisms happen,” Senator  Marco Rubio  of  Florida , one of four Republicans backing the Senate
blueprint, said in an interview. “The mistake that’s been made
in the past is that while the legalization happened, the
enforcement didn’t, and it led to the 11 million people that are
here.”  President  Barack Obama  is seeking to harness political
momentum following his strong support from Hispanic voters in
November to enact new immigration policy. Democrats say they are
encouraged that an increasing number of Republicans have dropped
their opposition to providing a path to citizenship as part of
such a move.  “The good news is that, for the first time in many years,
Republicans and Democrats seem ready to tackle this problem
together,” Obama told a cheering audience yesterday at Del Sol
High School in  Las Vegas . “At this moment, it looks like
there’s a genuine desire to get this done soon.”  Still, differences between the president’s outline and the
Senate framework are coming into focus, most notably over
conditions for allowing those already in the country illegally
to become citizens.  Border Security  In addition to tightened border security, Republicans want
a citizenship path to hinge on tracking people in the U.S. on
visas. A commission of governors, community members, and
attorneys general living on the Southwest border would make a
recommendation when the security measures are completed.  The White House plan doesn’t link citizenship to security,
out of concerns that a longer process could make it almost
impossible for those immigrants to gain full status.  U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement deported 396,906
people in fiscal year 2011 and a record 409,849 in fiscal 2012
according to figures released by the agency, part of the
Department of  Homeland Security .  Obama also supports equal treatment of same-sex couples
when one partner is from outside the U.S. That provision isn’t
included in the Senate framework and may be opposed by some
Republicans.  “We hope the president is careful not to drag the debate
to the left and ultimately disrupt the difficult work that is
ahead in the House and Senate,”  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for
House Speaker  John Boehner , said following Obama’s remarks.  Hispanic Voters  Boehner, of  Ohio , is among Republicans who have said that
the party must find a more positive approach to immigration
policy. Hispanics, a rapidly growing group of U.S. voters, cast
71 percent of their votes for Obama on Nov. 6, according to exit
polls.  The increasing political clout of Hispanic voters, who make
up 10 percent of the electorate and 16.7 percent of the
population, has prompted Republicans who long opposed an
immigration overhaul to reevaluate their position.  An immigration rewrite has drawn the backing of religious
organizations,  law enforcement  and companies -- including  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , Goldman Sachs,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  -- that seek to hire more foreign workers.  Labor Force  Of the 47 million new workers entering the  labor force 
between 2010 and 2050, a projected 37.6 million will be
Hispanic, according to an October 2012 Bureau of Labor
Statistics report. The percentage of Hispanics in the workforce
will grow to 18.6 percent by 2020 and to 30 percent in 2050,
doubling from 15 percent in 2010, according to the report.  Speaking yesterday at a school where more than 62 percent
of the students are Hispanic, Obama warned that if immigration
legislation is bogged down in Congress, he would send his plan
to the Capitol and insist that lawmakers vote on it “right
away.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
cautioned that the president “has put his arms around the four
senators on the Democratic side and the Republican side, but
with the caveat he’s not going to wait around forever to
actually have legislation that we move on.”  Obama gave tentative endorsement to the framework that the
Republican and Democratic senators unveiled Jan. 28, saying the
proposal was “very much in line with the principles I proposed
and campaigned on.”  Progress Made  New York  Senator Chuck Schumer, the chamber’s third-ranking
Democrat, said today that he and other members of the bipartisan
Senate group met last night and made progress on what he
characterized as one of the trickiest aspects of the measure:
details of the border security elements that Republicans say
must be a perquisite of a path to citizenship.  Senate Republicans working on the effort want to make sure
that 11 million illegal immigrants in the country “aren’t
treated any better, having crossed the border illegally, than
those that waited in line,” Schumer said at a breakfast
sponsored by Politico.  Arizona Senator  John McCain , a Republican member of the
group who also was at the Politico breakfast, said the bill’s
enactment would require a “tough slog” ahead.  “It’s going to be a tough, tough fight,” he said.  If the efforts implode, as past attempts have, Hispanics
will continue to turn away from Republicans and states like
Arizona will start to trend Democratic, he said.  ‘Measurable Increases’  McCain’s fellow Arizona Republican, Jeff Flake, another
member of the bipartisan group, said yesterday that he will
insist that citizenship can happen only after a “measurable
increases in border security.”  “This provision is key to ensuring that border security is
achieved, and is also necessary to ensure that a reform package
can actually move through Congress,” Flake said in a statement.  Flake called on Obama to embrace a temporary worker program
that the senator said is necessary “to ensure that future labor
needs are addressed.”  Immigration legislation signed by President  Ronald Reagan 
in 1986 made 3 million undocumented workers eligible for legal
status and created a market for fraudulent documentation.
Illegal immigration soared, casting a shadow of subsequent
efforts to legalize immigrants.  2007 Effort  An effort by President  George W. Bush  in 2007 to rewrite
immigration law failed amid public ire over illegal immigration.  “Immigration reform, like tax and Social Security reform,
is very complex,” said Stephen Yale-Loehr, an immigration law
expert and professor of law at  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New
York. “Even if everyone wants reform, it may still take a long
time to get a bill through Congress.”  The plan may face its toughest test in the Republican-led
House, which is dominated by lawmakers who have expressed little
interest in immigration laws beyond tightening border security.  “Until the administration creates a comprehensive border
security plan that includes a reasonable definition of
operational control we can measure, we cannot quantify success
or failure,” House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul, a
Texas Republican, said in a statement. “The Senate blueprint
appropriately made securing our borders a priority, while the
administration appears content to once again neglect to do so.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  