-- Cnooc May Extend Nexen Deadline as Overseas Growth to Boom
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-01-31T03:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/cnooc-aims-to-increase-production-by-2-1-after-meeting-target.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883)  said it may extend beyond
March the deadline for its purchase of  Nexen Inc. (NXY) ,  China ’s
largest foreign takeover, even as the company expects production
growth to come from overseas.  China’s biggest offshore energy explorer, which received
the Canadian government’s approval to buy Nexen for $15.1
billion in December, said it plans to increase crude and natural
gas production by as much as 2.1 percent this year, after
meeting its 2012 output target.  Cnooc’s purchase of Nexen is awaiting U.S. regulatory
clearance and the company may have to extend the deadline for
closing the deal if approvals aren’t obtained in time, Chief
Financial Officer Zhong Hua said in  Hong Kong  yesterday. The
explorer will focus its capital expenditure on developing
domestic production, which will be little changed in 2013, he
said.  Cnooc’s stalled domestic output growth follows Chinese  oil
companies  spending $25 billion in 2012 to acquire oil and gas
assets globally to meet the demands of the world’s largest
energy consumer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Cnooc’s growth in output, domestic and foreign, declined to
about 3.6 percent in 2012 from a peak of 40 percent in 2010.  “For Cnooc, China offshore production growth has been flat
for the third year in a row and has lagged the management’s
target of 4 percent to 5 percent annual growth,” said Sonia Song, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. who has
a neutral rating on Cnooc shares. “This year offshore
production may be even lower.”  Shares Drop  Cnooc dropped as much as 3.3 percent, the lowest intraday
level in almost three months, to HK$15.86 in Hong Kong and
traded 2.8 percent lower as of 10:58 a.m. local time. The city’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  declined 0.6 percent.  Nexen and its oil sands assets will add about 23 percent to
Cnooc’s production this year and very little to earnings per
share, said James Hubbard, Hong Kong-based head of Asia oil and
gas research at Macquarie Group Ltd., who has an outperform
rating on Cnooc shares.  “Oil sands is a low margin business and requires high
capital expenditure,” Nomura’s Song said. “Cnooc wants to
build a long-term oil resource with Nexen, but the valuations
were probably too generous.”  Cnooc originally hoped the deal would close by Dec. 31 and
has since extended the deadline to March 2. The company is
confident all regulatory approvals will be obtained by the first
quarter of 2013, Zhong said.  Growth Cycle  The unit of state-owned China National Offshore Oil Corp.
plans to produce between 338 million and 348 million barrels of
oil equivalent, the company said yesterday in a statement to the
Hong Kong stock exchange. New projects off the Chinese coast
helped produce about 341 million to 343 million barrels last
year, meeting the 335 million to 345 million barrel forecast
announced in October.  Cnooc may have entered a multiyear growth cycle,  Neil Beveridge , Ying Lou and  Lu Wang , Hong Kong-based analysts at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a research note yesterday.  “While near-term production is likely to slip, the medium-
term growth outlook remains unchanged,” the analysts said.
“Cnooc has an exceptionally strong growth pipeline ahead, with
24 projects under development both in offshore China and
overseas and 10 projects this year.”  Bernstein analysts expected Cnooc to post 15 percent
production growth in 2014 and 2015.  Penglai Shuttered  The company’s 2013 target includes production from the
shuttered Penglai 19-3 oilfield in northern China’s  Bohai Bay .
The country’s largest offshore field has been closed since Sept.
2011 after an  oil spill  and Cnooc is waiting for government
approval to restart.  Ten new offshore projects in China will come on-stream in
2013 and  capital spending  will rise to between $12 billion and
$14 billion, the company said in the statement. Cnooc will
maintain its 6 percent to 10 percent production growth target
for 2011 to 2015, it said.  Cnooc’s relatively modest output target in 2013 showed that
“declines of the existing fields are so severe that they
completely offset the contributions from the new, smaller
fields,” said  Gordon Kwan , the head of research at Mirae Asset
Securities Hong Kong Ltd., in an e-mailed research note.  “This might explain the urgency to acquire and bolt on
Nexen to fill this year’s performance growth gap and ensure the
firm’s 2011-2015 growth target can still be achieved,” Kwan
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  