-- Coal India to Raise Prime Coking Coal Price for Steel Authority
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-30T09:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/coal-india-to-raise-prime-coking-coal-price-for-steel-authority.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s largest
producer, plans to increase the price of the best quality of
coking coal it supplies to  Steel Authority of India Ltd. , the
nation’s second biggest maker of the alloy.  Unit Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. plans to charge 80 percent of
the landed import price from April, compared with 70 percent at
present, Technical Director Ashoke Sarkar said in a phone
interview today. The unit supplies 1.5 million metric tons of
coal to the state-run steelmaker, he said. The company also
plans to change prices every month beginning April, compared
with quarterly pricing now.  The increase in domestic rates may counter the benefit of
lower international coal prices at the steelmaker. Steel
Authority and competitors in  India  are negotiating coking coal
prices as low as $160 a ton for the quarter ending March, a 32
percent decline from year-ago prices, three people familiar with
the matter said Jan. 10. High production capacities and slowing
demand in  Europe  have brought down prices of the steelmaking
ingredient last year.  “We are proposing the new pricing formula only for washed
coking coal, all of which goes to Steel Authority,” Sarkar
said.  Steel Authority chairman C.S. Verma didn’t answer two calls
made to his mobile phone. The benchmark  FIS spot coking coal 
price was $168.50 a ton as of Jan. 29, declining 24 percent in
the past year.  Coal India   shares  rose as much as 1.5 percent to 352.80
rupees and traded 0.5 percent higher as of 2:33 p.m. in Mumbai
trading. Steel Authority  rose  0.2 percent at 89.10 rupees.  The steelmaker buys about 3 million metric tons of coking
coal from Coal India, or about 25 percent of its need. It
imports almost 70 percent of its requirement, mostly from
 Australia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  