-- Coal Buyers Spared 2011 Repeat as Australia Mines Weather Deluge
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-01-30T06:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/coal-buyers-spared-2011-repeat-as-australia-mines-weather-deluge.html
Coal mines in  Australia  are
returning to normal after rains from ex-tropical cyclone Oswald
passed in Queensland, limiting price increases for the commodity
used to produce power and steel.  Thermal coal at Newcastle closed little changed at $95.40 a
metric ton yesterday after climbing 1.3 percent on Jan. 28, the
most in more than three months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Xstrata Plc’s operations are back to normal after a
brief suspension because of rain, and  BHP Billiton  Ltd.’s sites
are operating, the companies said yesterday.  Coal prices surged in 2011 after flooding inundated about
three-quarters of Queensland state, shutting mines and prompting
BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto Group to notify customers they would
miss shipments. The deluge from Oswald has swamped rail lines
and disrupted output from producers including Yancoal Australia
Ltd., a unit of  China ’s Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. in the Bowen
Basin, the biggest source of Australia’s hard coking coal.  “There shouldn’t be a big supply dislocation like we had
two years ago, that was severe,” said  Andrew Harrington , an
analyst at Patersons Securities Ltd. in Sydney. “Customers will
be reminded of the possibility of disruption.”  Thermal coal at the Australian port of Newcastle surged to
$139.05 a ton on Jan. 10, 2011, according to the ICE Futures
Newcastle contract, which is cash-settled at an amount equal to
the Global Coal Monthly Newcastle Index. Steelmaking coal
contracts jumped to a record $330 a ton in the second quarter of
the same year.  ‘Big Wet’  “The Bowen Basin was hit by between 200 and 400
millimeters of rain, but the disruptions are not as widespread
as the ‘Big Wet’ of 2011,”  Mark Pervan  and Natalie Rampono,
Melbourne-based analysts at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., wrote in a note yesterday. “Even so, it may take
several weeks for operations to return to normal, and the
flooding will support prices of thermal and metallurgical coal
in the near term.”  Xstrata, the world’s biggest shipper of thermal coal, said
yesterday it may miss deliveries from the port of Gladstone in
Queensland after flooding shut two rail lines to the harbor. The
Blackwater and Moura tracks may be closed as long as 10 days,
according to Aurizon Holdings Ltd., the system operator.  Production from the Middlemount mine in Queensland may be
affected for at least three weeks after a levee was breached and
water flowed into the pit, Yancoal said yesterday in a statement.
BHP Billiton is still assessing the effect of heavy rain on its
operations in the Bowen Basin, it said yesterday.  “At this stage, it does not appear as though the coal
industry has suffered as much damage as it did in the 2010-11
floods,”  Michael Roche , chief executive of the Queensland
Resources Council, said in a statement yesterday. The loss of
production during the storm season is not unusual, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  