-- Copper Rises to Four-Week High as Industrial Metals Gain
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-01-30T18:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/copper-rises-to-four-week-high-as-industrial-metals-gain.html
Copper rose to the highest price in
almost four weeks on bets that the  Federal Reserve  will continue
making asset purchases to support economic growth. Nickel
reached a three-month high, and zinc jumped.  The Federal Open Market Committee today concludes a two-day
meeting and probably will decide to continue buying $85 billion
in securities each month, according to economists in a Bloomberg
survey. A Commerce Department report today showed the  U.S.
economy  unexpectedly shrank in the fourth quarter, bolstering
speculation that the central bank will purchase more debt.  “The consensus is that the Fed is going to stay the course
and that rates will remain low,” Matt Zeman, a strategist at
Kingsview Financial in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.
“The expectations for the Fed are feeding risk appetite.”  Copper futures for delivery in March rose 1.6 percent to
settle at $3.75 a pound at 1:11 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Earlier the metal touched $3.7525, the highest since Jan. 3.  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest mining company,
is considering a temporary halt to construction work at its $6.2
billion Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold project in Mongolia as the
government demands a greater share of profit from the mine,
according to two people familiar with the plans.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months gained 1.5 percent to $8,226 a metric ton ($3.73 a
pound).  Also on the LME, nickel for delivery in three months
climbed as much as 3.1 percent to $18,385 a ton, the highest
since Oct. 5.  Zinc for delivery in three months jumped 2.9 percent to
$2,155 a ton, the biggest gain since Jan. 2. Inventories of the
metal used in stainless steel are down 0.8 percent in January,
heading for the first monthly drop since August. Supplies “may
be getting a bit tight,”  Edward Meir , an analyst at INTL
FCStone Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Lead, aluminum and tin also advanced in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  