-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Increase; Chesapeake Risk Declines
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-01-30T21:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/credit-swaps-in-u-s-increase-for-a-third-day-before-gdp-report.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk increased the most in a month after the  U.S. economy 
unexpectedly contracted in the fourth quarter.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 3.8
basis points to a mid-price of 90 basis points at 4:25 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
increase is the most since Dec. 28 when the measure advanced 4.6
basis points to 99.4.  Signs of a faltering economy may stoke investor concern
that companies’ ability to repay debt will be constrained. Gross
domestic product, the volume of all goods and services produced,
dropped at a 0.1 percent annual rate, the worst performance
since the second quarter of 2009, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . A Bloomberg survey of economists
projected 1.1 percent growth.  “The GDP numbers are backward looking, but a lot of it had
to do with defense spending cuts. On some levels the negative
GDP is going to scare some investors and push them to buy
insurance,” Scott Carmack, a portfolio manager at Leader
Capital Corp. in  Portland , Oregon, said in a telephone
interview.  The  Federal Reserve  said today it will keep purchasing
securities at the rate of $85 billion a month after the economy
lapsed because of temporary forces.  Fed Policy  “Growth in economic activity paused in recent months, in
large part because of weather-related disruptions and other
transitory factors,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
today at the conclusion of a two-day meeting in Washington.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The cost of protecting  Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s (CHK)  debt from
losses plunged after the company announced yesterday that Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  would retire. Chesapeake lost
as much as 43 percent of its market value in 2012 as scrutiny of
McClendon’s financial transactions destroyed investor confidence
in management and cratering gas prices drained the company of
cash.  Chesapeake Swaps  Five-year default swaps on the Oklahoma City-based
company’s debt dropped 67.1 basis points to 389.8 basis points
at 4:35 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg prices show. That’s the
lowest level since December 2011.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index increased 15 basis points to 449.1 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt rose 4.7
basis points to 463.5 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s . A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  