-- UBS, Credit Suisse Adjusting Precious Metals Account Charges
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-01-30T16:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/credit-suisse-says-adjusting-precious-metals-account-charges.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
Switzerland’s biggest banks, are adjusting precious-metals
charges for financial institutions.  UBS revised fees for unallocated accounts and offers an
alternative physical account that has “a lower fee structure,”
it said in an e-mailed statement. Both banks didn’t give
specific details. The Financial Times reported earlier that the
banks are trying to encourage holding metal through allocated
accounts, where they would act as custodian and wouldn’t need to
increase capital reserves. That’s instead of holding metal
through unallocated accounts, which show up on balance sheets.  “There is a move internationally towards allocated storage
and away from more risky unallocated storage,” Mark O’Byrne,
the executive director of Dublin-based GoldCore Ltd., a
brokerage that sells and stores bullion coins and bars, said by
e-mail. “With unallocated storage, one is an unsecured creditor
of the provider or bank, whereas with allocated, the client
directly owns the gold and the gold cannot become encumbered.”  Gold prices jumped about 80 percent in the past four years
on demand for a protection of wealth and alternative to
currencies as central banks boosted stimulus and Europe’s debt
crisis continued. Investors’ holdings of gold, silver and
platinum through exchange-traded products reached records last
month or this month, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
underlying gold in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest bullion-
backed ETP, is held in allocated form, according to the
provider’s website.  Julius Baer  UBS is Switzerland’s biggest bank and Credit Suisse the
second-largest. The Financial Times cited unidentified clients
and people familiar with the decisions in the report. Swiss bank
Julius Baer isn’t planning to raise charges on gold holdings,
spokesman Martin Somogyi said today by phone.  Barclays Plc opened its first precious metals vault in
London last year as demand to store the commodities rose. Banks
and security firms from Malca-Amit Global Ltd. to Deutsche Bank
AG are also planning to open or increase storage facilities.  “Although Malca-Amit sees a rise in demand for physical
storage of precious metals in Asia, our capacity has been
increased as well and market conditions do not justify a raise
in storage charges,” Joshua Rotbart, Singapore-based general
manager for Malca-Amit Precious Metals, said by e-mail and phone
today. “Storage rates differ based on clients’ requirements and
the holdings size. They are usually well below 20 basis points
of bullion value.”  Malca Amit’s expansion into Singapore and Hong Kong since
2010 added more than 1,000 metric tons of capacity to the
market, Rotbart said. The company’s Shanghai vault will open in
the third quarter of this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  