-- CVC Capital Said to Seek $12.2 Billion for Buyout Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-01-30T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/cvc-capital-said-to-seek-12-2-billion-for-buyout-fund.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd., the
private-equity firm whose investments include Formula One racing
and Samsonite luggage, is targeting 9 billion euros ($12.2
billion) for one of the largest buyout pools currently being
sought, according to three people familiar with the matter.  CVC’s sixth fund, while seeking less than the 10.75 billion
euros its predecessor gathered in 2008, has no limit on how much
it can raise, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the fundraising is private. Mary Zimmerman, a
spokeswoman for London-based CVC, declined to comment.  Warburg Pincus  LLC and  Silver Lake  Management LLC are
gathering multibillion pools for their latest funds. Warburg
Pincus, based in New York, is seeking $12 billion for its newest
pool, and Silver Lake, the private-equity firm said to be
discussing a potential buyout of computer maker Dell Inc., is
targeting $7.5 billion. Advent International Corp., a Boston-
based buyout firm that invests in  Europe  and the U.S, last year
raised 8.5 billion euros.  CVC Capital is allowing prospective investors online access
to due-diligence materials and is expected to distribute
marketing documents shortly, according to the people.  The firm’s 2005 fund, which raised 6 billion euros, was
generating a 17 percent net internal rate of return and a 1.75
times multiple as of Sept. 30, according to performance data
from  Oregon Public Employees Retirement Fund . The most recent
fund, CVC European Equity Partners V LP, was producing an 8.8
percent net IRR and a 1.26 times multiple as of the same date.  Formula One  The firm has reaped gains from its investment in Formula
One motor racing from its 2005 fund, CVC European Equity
Partners IV LP. It has made more than $4 billion on its original
$1 billion investment, co-founder Donald Mackenzie said during
an interview in October. Mackenzie said the firm expects to make
as much as $7 billion on the holding and was considering selling
its remaining stake through an initial public offering.  The firm’s chairman  Michael Smith  stepped down this month
as CVC prepares to raise its new fund. Mackenzie, Rolly Van
Rappard and Steve Koltes, three of CVC’s remaining founders, are
taking over as co-chairmen. CVC, which last year sold a stake in
itself to three sovereign-wealth funds, plans to remain private,
unlike some of its U.S. competitors.  Through its European funds, CVC Capital makes equity
investments of at least $150 million, according to the firm’s
website. The firm on Jan 2. agreed to buy Cerved, an Italian
provider of business credit information, from  Bain Capital  and
Clessidra SGR SpA.  It invests in global industrial and service businesses.
Founded in 1981, CVC also manages buyout funds that focus on the
Asia-Pacific region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  