-- D-Con Rodent Poisons by Reckitt Benckiser Under EPA Ban
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-01-30T19:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/d-con-rodent-poisons-by-reckitt-benckiser-under-epa-ban.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency said it will ban the sale of D-Con mouse and rat poisons
after producer  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  refused to meet the
agency’s safety standards.  The  poisons  are used in millions of households and removing
them from store shelves will lead to a “substantial reduction”
in children being exposed to the rodent bait, according to the
agency. While there have been no known human deaths, the EPA
said it has been concerned about risks to children, pets and
wildlife for many years.  “To ban these products will prevent completely avoidable
risks to children,”  James Jones , an acting assistant
administrator at the EPA, said today in a statement. “With this
action, EPA is ensuring that the products on the market are both
safe and effective to consumers.”  Reckitt Benckiser has 30 days to request a hearing before
an EPA judge to appeal the decision. If no hearing is requested,
the agency will cancel the registrations for 12 products used to
kill rodents. Until that happens, the items can be sold by
retailers.  A spokesman for Berkshire, U.K.-based Reckitt Benckiser
said the company didn’t have a comment. The company also makes
Calgon bath products, Clearasil face cream, Delsym cough
medicine and French’s mustard.  Tamper Resistant  The EPA requires rodenticide products for consumer use to
be contained in protective tamper-resistant bait stations. The
agency prohibits sale of pellets and other bait forms that
cannot be secured in bait stations. The agency issued standards
in 2008 and gave companies until 2011 to comply.  In addition, the EPA bans the sale of consumer products
containing some anticoagulants including brodifacoum,
bromadiolone, difethialone and difenacoum because of their
toxicity to wildlife.  D-Con’s products either don’t have protective bait stations
or contain rodenticides that pose risks to wildlife, and some
have both, according to the EPA notice.  The National Pest Management Association, an industry
group, praised the EPA’s action in a statement, noting it’s been
under development for more than a decade.  The EPA will ban use of “potentially dangerous” do-it-
yourself products and “will reserve the rights for use by
professionals when needed,” said Bob Rosenberg, executive vice
president of the Fairfax, Virginia-based group.  The agency said it has received no reports of children
being exposed to bait for products that incorporate its new
standards. From 1993 until 2008, the  American Association  of
Poison Control Centers received from 12,000 to 15,000 reports of
rat and mouse poison exposures each year to children under 6
years of age.  “While EPA is unaware of any fatal or untreatable
incidents involving children, pets are not so fortunate, and on
average more than 100 pet deaths are reported each year from
exposure to rodenticides,” the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  