-- Daimler Said to Take Chinese Partner Stake to Push Growth
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-01-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/daimler-said-to-take-chinese-partner-stake-to-push-growth.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  plans to buy a stake in
Beijing Automotive Group Co.’s car unit to secure influence at
the German automaker’s Chinese partner ahead of an initial
public offering, two people familiar with the matter said.  Daimler, the world’s third-largest maker of luxury cars,
may announce as soon as this week that it’s taking a holding of
10 percent to 20 percent in BAIC’s auto division, said one of
the people, asking not to be identified because the discussions
are private.  BAIC would increases its ownership in the production joint
venture that the two operate in China to 51 percent as part of
the transaction, the person said. Currently, each partner has 50
percent of Beijing Benz Automotive Co., which builds Mercedes C-
and E-Class sedans and the GLK sport-utility vehicle.  Daimler Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said earlier
this month at the  Detroit auto show  that the German automaker is
negotiating its role in a possible BAIC share sale, without
giving details. The two also jointly own the marketing and sales
organization Beijing Mercedes-Benz Sales Service Co., which was
set up in December to combine marketing of imported and locally
produced cars.  “We don’t comment on speculation,” Florian Martens, a
Daimler spokesman, said by phone. Zheng Gang, a BAIC spokesman,
referred queries to Daimler.  China Daily  yesterday reported the
transaction, citing unidentified sources close to BAIC.  Zetsche has vowed to retake the top spot Mercedes lost to
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG in 2005 by the end of the decade at
the latest.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi, No. 2 in global luxury sales
since 2011, is pursuing the same goal. Mercedes fell further
behind BMW and Audi in sales last year as it grew more slowly in
China, the world’s biggest car market, than its two rivals.  Daimler, based in Stuttgart,  Germany , has named Hubertus Troska to its board with responsibility for China and is working
with BAIC to improve its lagging sales growth.  Daimler would seek a seat on BAIC’s board as part of the
stake purchase, one person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  