-- Dan Loeb, Karan, Mohapatra, Julie Macklowe: N.Y. Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-01-30T16:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/dan-loeb-karan-mohapatra-julie-macklowe-n-y-scene.html
After attending  Sean Parker ’s party
in Davos on Jan. 25, where the walls were decorated with laser-
eyed taxidermy, hedge-fund manager Dan Loeb spent last night
amid tens of millions of dollars of art.  The venue was Christie’s and the cause was yoga instruction
in  New York  City schools through the nonprofit  Bent on Learning .  The auction house offered its premises after Bent lost its
original date and venue to superstorm Sandy. The new date
coincided with previews of contemporary art being auctioned in
New York and  London  next month.  Loeb, in a blue-and-white shirt and blue jacket, huddled
with Eddie Stern, director of Ashtanga Yoga New York, near an Ed Ruscha painting, while his wife, Margaret Munzer Loeb, stood
near a Basquiat.  As for yoga: “Nobody would like us if we didn’t do it,”
said Munzer Loeb, in a black-leather cocktail dress and glittery
choker.  Yoga instructor  Jocelyn O’Shea , who is teaching at four
schools this semester, said the students in Bent on Learning
classes receive many benefits: more focus and attention in
class, a way to cope with frustration and anxiety, and a
physical outlet at a time when gym classes and recesses have
been reduced.  The major difference between her adult classes and Bent
classes: “The kids talk throughout the class,” O’Shea said,
“but they’re really appreciative -- I think more so than
adults.”  ‘Good Ideas’  The Loebs have been supporters of Bent on Learning “since
the beginning,” said Jennifer Ford, who co-founded the program
12 years ago.  Her husband, David H. Ford, a co-founder of the hedge-fund
Latigo Partners LP, is chairman of the yoga program.  “As a  fund manager , I’m looking for good ideas to invest
in, and Bent on Learning is a good idea,” David Ford said.
“Yoga and meditation have made a profound difference in my
life, and it makes a huge difference in the lives of the
children we serve.”  Bent on Learning has an annual budget of $500,000, which
allows it to work with 3,500 students weekly from pre-
kindergarten to 12th grade. The organization pays its yoga
instructors $50 for each 45-minute class, and provides mats in
classrooms. The cost works out to $8 a class per student.  With more than 1 million students enrolled in New York City
public schools, there is room to expand. It’s more a matter of
funds than finding yoga teachers, said Jennifer Ford.  Jarred Pie  Before a dinner of cod and pie in a jar, served in the
auction room at Christie’s, the co-creator of spa Exhale’s Core
Fusion program, Fred DeVito, led everyone in a breathing
exercise. Then Stern and the  David Lynch Foundation  were
honored, with David Lynch appearing in one video, and Moby in
another performing a song about Stern and their mutual baldness.  Donna Karan , a past honoree, made a case for more yoga just
about everywhere.  “We live in a world of chaos and we need to find the
calm,” the designer said.  Guests included Stacey Bendet Eisner, designer of  Alice &
Olivia , who has helped the organization raise several hundred
thousand dollars; designer  Bibhu Mohapatra , who said “amazing,
eccentric women” have inspired the collection he’ll present at
Fashion Week; and Julie Macklowe, chief executive officer and
founder of  Vbeaute , in uncharacteristically tame party attire of
blue blazer over fitted red dress.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
 Amanda Gordon  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 