-- Danish FSA to Unveil Bank Board Failures as Early as Next Week
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-01-30T15:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/danish-fsa-to-unveil-bank-board-failures-as-early-as-next-week.html
Denmark ’s  financial  regulator will
identify as early as next week how many boards fail to meet more
stringent qualifications for serving imposed after more than
dozen banks failed or were forced to merge.  The Financial Supervisory Authority will release its review
after shifting through reports by banks, pension funds and
insurance companies documenting their compliance with the new
requirements, including relevant management experience, Soeren Moeller Christensen, spokesman for the FSA, said.  “We won’t go into specifics before the report is
disclosed,” he said by e-mail today.  Denmark’s financial institutions faced a Nov. 1 deadline to
submit their documentation. The Copenhagen-based agency said in
July, when it presented the final requirements, that it would
take action against non-compliant institutions if they failed to
reconstitute their boards to meet the new rules at their annual
general meetings.  Jyske Bank A/S, (JYSK)  Denmark’s second-largest listed lender,
last week took over Sparekassen Lolland A/S after the FSA
demanded at least 289 million kroner ($53 million) in additional
writedowns, pushing the lender’s capital levels below regulatory
requirements. Anders Dam, Jyske’s chief executive officer, said
commercial loans caused Sparekassen Lolland’s failure.  Boards of failed banks have given managers too much leeway
and didn’t check their decisions, the FSA said in March. Half of
Denmark’s 20 biggest banks don’t have a board member with bank
industry management experience, Ulrik Noedgaard, general
director of the FSA, said last year when he announced the agency
would develop new requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  