-- Defense Spending Slides in Biggest Drop Since Vietnam
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2013-01-31T21:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/defense-spending-plummets-in-biggest-decline-since-vietnam-era.html
(Corrects Hewson comment and reference to conference call
in last paragraph of story published Jan. 30.)  Defense spending plummeted in the
last three months of the year, which may foreshadow the dangers
to the economy of across-the-board budget reductions set to kick
in March 1.  The 22 percent drop in Pentagon expenditures is probably
due to “uncertainty concerning the automatic spending cuts,”
Alan Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of Economic
Advisers, wrote today in a blog post after the Commerce
Department released the figures.  The decline in defense purchases in the fourth quarter was
the biggest since 1972, when military spending slumped in the
closing years of the Vietnam War. The reductions may reflect the
winding down of two wars and $487 billion in cuts already
planned over a decade. The automatic defense cuts would total
$45 billion this fiscal year, according to the Pentagon.  “This reflects anxiety over the cuts but also a general
downturn in defense that’s been expected,” said Kevin Brancato,
an analyst at Bloomberg Government in  Washington .  The fourth-quarter outlays don’t reflect a sharp
contraction in annual defense spending. While defense outlays
plunged 22 percent from the previous quarter on an annualized
basis, spending for the year fell just 3.1 percent from 2011,
according to Benjamin Mandel, an economist at the Commerce
Department’s Bureau of Economic Analysis.  Defense expenditures totaled $677.2 billion in inflation-
adjusted dollars in 2012, compared with $699.1 billion in 2011,
according to bureau figures.  Delayed Cuts  The fourth-quarter decline partly reflects a spike in
defense spending during the prior quarter, Brancato said. The
Pentagon traditionally spends the most in the third quarter,
which marks the end of the government’s fiscal year, as
officials rush to use expiring funds.  Third-quarter defense spending rose 13 percent compared
with the previous three months, an increase that may have been
sharper than usual this year because government buyers sought to
award as many contracts as possible before a year-end deadline
for the automatic cuts, he said. In a last-minute deal between
the White House and Congress, the reductions were delayed for
two months.  “These numbers do on a monthly and quarterly basis move
around,”  Byron Callan , a defense industry analyst at Capital
Alpha Partners LLC in Washington, said in a telephone interview.
“It should be viewed more as an aberration as opposed to some
new baseline or trend that people ought to think about in the
balance of this year.”  No Budget  The automatics cuts will take place unless the Obama
administration and Congress work to stop them. It’s “more
likely than unlikely” that the reductions will take effect,
Deputy Defense Secretary Ashton Carter said yesterday.  A spokeswoman for the Defense Department said Pentagon
officials don’t agree that the prospect of automatic cuts, known
as sequestration, played a role in the lower defense spending.  “This is not our data and we cannot comment on the
numbers, but the decline is likely a combination of reduced
Defense spending to support the reduced activity in Iraq and
 Afghanistan  and the limits in contractual activity engendered by
the 6-month continuing resolution,” Pentagon spokeswoman Army
Lieutenant Colonel Elizabeth Robbins said in an e-mailed
statement.  Contracting Slowdown  A stopgap measure in place that allows government agencies
to continue programs at the previous year’s funding levels
expires March 27.  If Congress allows the stopgap to continue, it will affect
“every one of our sectors,” Wes Bush, chief executive officer
of  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , told analysts on a conference call
today.  “We see this environment with those types of restrictions
touching all types of business” within Northrop, Bush said.  The Commerce Department’s figures echoed a similar decline
in the Pentagon’s announced contracts, which include only awards
of $6.5 million or more.  Military awards dropped 18 percent to $94.8 billion in the
quarter ended Dec. 31 from $115 billion in the previous quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Huge Bottleneck’  Spending on major Pentagon contracts weakened at the
beginning of 2013. Awards slumped 23 percent to $10.1 billion in
the first three weeks of January compared with $13.1 billion
during the same period in 2012, according to the data.  “There’s a huge bottleneck where things have clearly
slowed down,” said Stan Soloway, chief executive officer of the
Professional Services Council, an Arlington, Virginia-based
group that represents contractors such as  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  and  CACI
International Inc. (CACI)   Top defense contractors haven’t seen decreases in revenue
in line with the Commerce Department’s figures, analyst Callan
said.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , based in Bethesda,  Maryland , last
week reported sales for the quarter of $12.1 billion, down less
than 1 percent from the year-ago period.  “As we look at our go-forward plan for this year, we have
a very strong portfolio and a solid plan in place,” Lockheed
Chief Executive Officer Marillyn Hewson said during a conference
call with reporters. “And even as we look at sequestration and
potential budget reductions, we’re not looking at planned job
reductions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  