-- Deutsche Bank Said to Put Dubai Equity Analysts on Contracts
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-30T12:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/deutsche-bank-said-to-place-dubai-equity-analysts-on-contracts.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Europe’s biggest
lender by assets, is placing Dubai-based equity analysts on
consulting contracts as it seeks to avoid job cuts in the Middle
East, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Between three and six analysts are affected by the move,
the people said, asking not to be identified as the changes
aren’t public. While the analysts will lose some benefits
they’ll still receive medical cover and be eligible for a bonus,
one of the people said. They’ll continue to provide research
exclusively for the bank as before, the people said.  Global banks, including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , are reducing their equities business in Dubai as
trading dwindles and clients postpone share sales. The average
number of shares in Dubai’s benchmark index traded daily is
still about 50 percent down on the figure for 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Michael Lermer, a Dubai-based spokesman for Deutsche Bank
in the  Middle East  and North  Africa , said the bank’s scope of
service and commitment to the region remains unchanged, while
declining to provide any further comment.  Expected Loss  Deutsche Bank may post a loss of 210 million euros ($284
million) compared with a profit of 147 million euros in the
fourth quarter of 2011, when it reports earnings tomorrow,
according to the average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs and three of its biggest U.S.
competitors saw their combined net income jump 92 percent
annually to $9.73 billion in the period. Deutsche Bank shares
rose 1.2 percent to 37.31 euros at 1:02 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The
stock advanced about 13 percent so far this year.  Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen, the bank’s co-Chief
Executive Officers, are reducing pay, eliminating almost 2,000
jobs and have combined Deutsche Bank’s asset and wealth
management divisions to help lift after-tax return on equity, a
measure of profitability, to more than 12 percent by 2015 from 8
percent in 2011.  The co-ceos pledged to increase Deutsche Bank’s core Tier 1
capital ratio under stricter Basel III rules to 7.2 percent by
the end of last year and to more than 10 percent by the end of
2015. Its biggest competitors will reach similar levels months
or years sooner, according to forecasts from the banks.  Bonus Cuts  Deutsche Bank is considering reducing bonuses for
investment bankers in  Europe  by as much as 20 percent on average
for 2012, while bankers in  New York  will see smaller declines,
four people briefed on the matter said Jan. 14.  The cuts may range between 10 percent and 20 percent on
average in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, while bonuses in
locations that performed better or where competition for staff
is stronger will fall less, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private. The plans are
preliminary and may change, they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  