-- Diageo Shifting to Upscale Tequila After Adios to Cuervo
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-01-30T00:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/diageo-shifting-to-upscale-tequila-after-adios-to-cuervo.html
Echo Hopkins’ love of tequila began
with a happy hour margarita at the Blue Moon Mexican Café in
Bronxville,  New York . Four years later, her tastes have matured,
and she now eschews cheap margaritas in favor of tequilas
costing $10-plus a shot meant to be sipped and savored.  “As you move on from college you begin to realize you can
enjoy tequila slowly,” said the 25-year-old art researcher.  Hopkins is the kind of consumer that spirits giant  Diageo
Plc (DGE)  is counting on as it revamps its tequila business. With U.S.
consumption of the fiery Mexican tipple climbing and more
drinkers shifting upmarket, the London-based distiller last
month said it would terminate a distribution deal with Jose
Cuervo after 16 years.  As Diageo prepares to release results tomorrow, analysts
say abandoning the deal with Cuervo, the world’s top-selling
tequila, was a smart move -- even if it meant losing $470
million in annual sales.  “It probably makes sense that Diageo walked away,” said
 Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. “Diageo
perceives that all the growth in tequila has been in premium
brands. Cuervo isn’t premium.”  Larry Schwartz, Diageo’s  North America  president, in
December said any replacement for Cuervo would have to be
premium. Without naming any brands, Schwartz said the company
was mulling whether to develop a high-end tequila, acquire a
small brand pricier than Cuervo, or find a partner.  Diageo, which posted $16.8 billion in sales last year of
brands ranging from Smirnoff vodka to Guinness beer, had been in
talks to buy the Cuervo brand, which analysts say would have
fetched some $3 billion. In December, Diageo said those
negotiations had failed, and that by June Diageo would no longer
distribute Cuervo. Diageo stock has since  declined  1.2 percent.  Blue Agave  Tequila, distilled from the roasted hearts, or pinas, of
the spiky blue agave plant in  Mexico , is gaining in popularity,
especially in the U.S., its biggest market. American consumption
rose at an average annual rate of 4.1 percent from 2006 to 2011,
according to researcher International Wine & Spirit Research,
almost double the growth of the total U.S. liquor market.  More important for Diageo, pricier varieties are expanding
the fastest. The market for tequilas that sell for more than $20
a bottle has increased more than 10 percent over the last five
years, IWSR reports, attracting global distilling companies.  In 2007,  Davide Campari-Milano SpA (CPR)  bought 80 percent of
Cabo Wabo, a premium tequila, and it acquired San Nicolas,
another upscale brand, the following year. In 2011,  Pernod
Ricard SA (RI)  signed a joint venture with upmarket Tequila Avion.  Beam, Sauza  Tequilas priced under $20, which make up over half of the
U.S. market by volume and the bulk of Cuervo’s sales, have slid
1.1 percent over the past 5 years. Cuervo’s market share in the
U.S. has fallen to 34 percent from 45 percent over the same
period, Liberum Research estimates. The majority of tequila
drunk is in cocktails like margaritas, according to Kevin
Vanegas, Master of Tequila at Wirtz Beverage  Nevada , a Las Vegas
liquor distributor.  After Diageo announced it would no longer sell Cuervo,
speculation mounted that it was eyeing  Beam Inc. (BEAM) , which makes
Sauza, the third-biggest tequila brand in the U.S. The buyout
speculation has sent Beam’s shares up 5 percent since then.  Sauza, which retails for about the same price as Cuervo,
would do little to help Diageo meet its target of 6 percent
annual sales growth, according to Liberum analyst  Pablo Zuanic .  “There’s no point for Diageo to spend money and effort
trying to get the non-premium market,” Zuanic said. “Their
focus should be on premium tequila.”  1,500 Tequilas  Diageo may report a first-half sales increase of 5.6
percent tomorrow, excluding acquisitions and the impact of
currency fluctuations, according to the median estimate of 11
 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg. That would represent a slowdown
from the 7 percent gain in the same period last year. Diageo has
forecast a one percentage-point widening of its operating margin
in North America to 39.1 percent this year, aided by pricier new
products.  The high end of the tequila market is dominated by Patron,
part-owned by Bacardi Ltd. Patron sold 1.66 million cases in the
U.S. in 2011, double that of its next competitor, Grupo Cuervo’s
1800 brand, IWSR estimates. Potential targets abound: there are
over 150 tequila distilleries in Mexico producing more than
1,500 brands, according to Vanegas.  All tequila is made from agave, but  Jose Cuervo  and Sauza
are “mixtos,” containing as much as 49 percent alcohol made
from non-agave sugars.  Shot Glasses  Like Cognac, Bourbon, or single malt scotch, tequilas vary
by how long they’re aged. So-called anejo varieties sold by most
brands at a premium, must spend at least a year in wooden
barrels. High-end tequila should be sipped “like a fine
whiskey,” said Vanegas -- not downed in shot glasses alongside
a lime wedge and a lick of salt, as is often the case in U.S.
bars.  Diageo does own half of an upmarket tequila called Don
Julio, alongside the Beckmann family, Cuervo’s owners. The brand
saw sales growth of 26 percent last year versus a 5 percent
decline for Jose Cuervo.  Diageo might lean on other spirits to get by without
Cuervo. Over the past two years it has bought brands such as
 Brazil ’s Ypioca cachaca and  Turkey ’s Yeni Raki to complement its
dominant position in whisky and vodka. It was the first big
European distiller to invest in a Chinese maker of its popular
national spirit, baijiu.  Frat Culture  With tequila drinkers, Diageo’s challenge is to get
Americans to pay up for pricier brands like Don Julio now that
it no longer distributes Cuervo. That may take some doing,
according to enthusiasts such as Hopkins.  “There’s still a stigma attached to the frat boy culture
of taking shots of tequila,” she said. “I’ve been out with
people and ordered amazing aged tequila meant for sipping, and
had them down it in one go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  