-- Discovery Plunges as Cathay-Led Group Extends Bid: Sydney Mover
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-01-30T03:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/discovery-plunges-as-cathay-led-group-extends-bid-sydney-mover.html
Discovery Metals Ltd. (DML) , the subject
of a A$830 million ($869 million) hostile bid by a Cathay
Fortune Corp.-led group, was headed for its biggest drop in 3
1/2 years in Sydney after the bidder extended its offer period
for a third time and sought more discussions.  The stock fell as much as 12 percent to A$1.15 and traded
10 percent lower, poised for its biggest decline since April
2009, as of 1:58 p.m. local time. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index gained 0.2 percent. The lowest intraday level today is 32
percent below the A$1.70 apiece offer price.  Cathay Fortune, a private equity firm founded by Chinese
billionaire Yu Yong, extended its offer period by seven days to
Feb. 15 because it wants more time to study concerns over a
downgrade in reserves and lower-than-expected ore grades at the
Zeta deposit in Botswana, it said today in a statement. Cathay
Fortune’s cash bid went hostile in October after Discovery’s
board rejected the offer as too low.  Discovery said in a Jan. 23 statement that the total copper
metal content at the Zeta mine was 13 percent lower than its
initial estimate and the sulphide-material grade 15 percent less
than forecast. It also said that its cash cost for the six
months ended Dec. 31 was $4.28 a pound (0.45 kilograms),
compared with the $1.28 a pound average estimated in its
 feasibility study , because of lower ore grades and higher energy
costs.  “The new and material disclosures included in the second
supplementary target’s statement raise material concerns,” Yu
Yong said in today’s statement. “The extension will provide
time for Cathay Fortune Investment Ltd. to discuss with
Discovery its requirement to conduct appropriate due diligence
in order to understand and address these concerns.”  Cathay Fortune Investment is the bidding group that
consists of Shanghai-based Cathay Fortune Corp. and partner
China-Africa Development Fund. Buying Discovery would give the
bidders a copper-silver mine in Botswana with an annual capacity
of 36,000 metric tons of copper and 1.1 million ounces of
silver.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  