-- Distressed Firms Lure Tata’s First Special Fund: Corporate India
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-01-31T05:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/distressed-firms-lure-tata-s-first-special-fund-corporate-india.html
Tata Capital Ltd., the finance unit
of  India ’s largest business group, plans to raise as much as 5
billion rupees ($94 million) for its first fund that will invest
in equities of distressed companies.  Tata Capital Special Situations Fund has attracted five
state-run banks to invest in the fund, which may be fully
subscribed by March, T.A. Ramkumar, head of Tata Capital’s
special situations investment business, said in an e-mail. He
declined to identify the banks.  The highest borrowing costs among major emerging economies
and slowing growth in gross domestic product have crimped
earnings and the ability of Indian companies to pay debt and
raise capital. Rising bad loans are the biggest risk to the
banking system in Asia’s third-largest economy, according to
Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.’s billionaire Chairman Uday Kotak.  “This is an ideal time to raise money for such a fund,”
said Mahendra Swarup, president of Indian Private Equity &
Venture Capital Association. “One can then be ready as more
assets get into trouble and opportunities arise in the next two
to three years.”  Ramkumar didn’t disclose names of companies or industries
in which the fund will invest. Loans to the infrastructure and
mining industries are particularly under duress, Kotak said in
an interview in Davos.  “The No. 1 focus and concern for the system, the banking
system, is rising bad loans,” Kotak, 53, said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television while attending the World Economic
Forum. “A lot of large corporates have got themselves over-
leveraged, and that’s where the pain is.”  Working Capital  The fund was marketed to banks because they would benefit
if a company is revived, said Ramkumar. Tata Capital manages
about $1 billion in four other private equity funds, according
to the company’s website.  More than 700 Indian companies, including  Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  and wind turbine maker  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , had
negative working capital, indicating their current liabilities
exceed cash and other short-term assets, as of March 31, the
highest since at least 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “This could be a different strategy for banks to reduce
their non-performing loans,” said Swarup. “It can emerge as an
alternative to corporate debt restructuring for small and medium
enterprises.”  State Bank of India , the nation’s biggest lender, is
planning to sell part of its 492 billion rupees of soured loans
to boost asset quality. Bad loans at Indian banks widened to
3.25 percent as of June 30 from 2.94 percent in March, the
Reserve Bank of India said in report on Oct. 2.  State Bank’s  shares , which have gained 18 percent this
month, fell 0.3 percent to 2,428.95 rupees at 10:45 a.m. in
Mumbai.  High Returns  The fund may also help Tata Capital generate higher returns
than normal. The company, a unit of Tata Sons Ltd.,  predicts an
internal rate of return of 30 percent, according to Ramkumar.
That compares with 15 percent for private equity funds and the
central bank’s 7.75 percent benchmark rate.  New York-based KPS Capital Partners LP’s $2 billion KPS
Special Situations Fund III produced a 21 percent net internal
rate of return as of March 31, according to data from California
Public Employees Retirement System.  High returns are attracting other firms to set up funds to
invest in distressed companies. ICICI Venture Funds Management
Co., a unit of India’s second-largest bank, set up AION Capital
Partners, a special situations fund in 2011 with U.S.-based
Apollo Global Management.  Mumbai-based Arth Equity Advisors LLP plans to invest about
$75 million in companies facing “incipient stress,” said Sumit Chandwani, managing partner at Arth, which manages $100 million
and plans to raise an additional $150 million by December.  “The entry valuations are not fancy,” said Sanjeev
Kishan, executive director at PricewaterhouseCoopers. “If they
are turned around, the higher returns would be easy.”  Liquidity Crunch  Chandwani said his fund invests in companies that are
facing a liquidity crunch or have incurred losses because of
derivative transactions, as long as the management has a good
corporate governance record. Companies that aren’t able to pay
their convertible debt also make good candidates, he said.  “The funds infuse equity, re-balance the capital structure
and bring in operational expertise,” said Kishan.  Clearwater Capital Partners LLC’s 2 billion rupee
investment in the cash-strapped  Diamond Power Infrastructure
Ltd. (DIPI)  in August 2006 helped the Indian maker of power cables
expand into making transformers and transmission towers, said
Jayesh Patel, senior manager, finance at the Vadodra-based
company.  Clearwater owns about 9 percent of the company that
returned to profit in 2008. Firstcall India Equity Advisors Pvt.
 forecasts  Diamond Power will report a record profit of 1.4
billion rupees in the year to March.  “Some companies will always make strategic mistakes,”
said Arth’s Chandwani. “And that presents an opportunity for
us. We feel this is a less crowded space in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  