-- Dollar Weakens as Fed Says It Will Keep Buying Bonds
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-01-30T22:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/dollar-weakens-as-fed-maintains-pace-of-bond-buying-yen-falls.html
The dollar fell to the weakest since
November 2011 versus the euro after the  Federal Reserve  said it
will keep buying $85 billion of securities a month to spur the
economy, adding to concern the U.S. currency is being debased.  The greenback slid for a second day against  Europe ’s shared
currency as the  Federal Open Market Committee  said it will
continue to purchase Treasuries and mortgage bonds as the U.S.
economy paused and inflation remained below policy makers’ goal.
The euro gained earlier as European economic confidence climbed,
while the yen slid versus most major counterparts.  “This signals a continuation of current policy,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  New
York , said of the Fed. “There’s nothing in the recent data to
suggest that labor market conditions are improving, which is
what the Fed is looking for. This is one of the situations where
there’s more of an excuse than a reason to sell the dollar.”  The U.S. currency dropped 0.6 percent to $1.3567 per euro
at 5 p.m. in New York and reached $1.3587, the weakest level
since November 2011. The greenback advanced 0.4 percent to 91.08
yen after touching 91.41 earlier, the strongest since June 2010.
The euro touched 123.86 yen, the strongest level since May 2010,
before trading at 123.57, up 1 percent.  The Fed repeated that its purchases will continue “if the
outlook for the labor market does not improve substantially.”
The central bank also left unchanged its statement that it
planned to hold its target  interest rate  near zero as long as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and projected inflation
stays below 2.5 percent.  Market Expectations  “This was almost exactly what the market was expecting and
similar to the statement they put out in December,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “They maintained their purchases, the pace and the
guidance for the federal funds rate and some other metrics. In
general, we got exactly what the market was looking for.”  The FOMC, in a statement after its first meeting of 2013,
said that while “strains in global financial markets have eased
somewhat, the committee continues to see downside risks to the
economic outlook.”  The  New Zealand dollar  fell versus most major peers as the
nation’s central bank extended a period of record-low interest
rates that began almost two years ago. The currency pared losses
as  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler said in a
statement policy makers expect economic growth to strengthen
this year.  The kiwi, as the currency is nicknamed, was down 0.4
percent to 83.59 U.S. cents after dropping as much as 1.2
percent to 82.94 cents.  Aussie Slides  Australia ’s dollar was the worst performer among the
greenback’s 16 most-traded counterparts, depreciating 0.5
percent to $1.0418.  The Brazilian real fell for the first time in six days
against the greenback as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said a
weaker currency helps the nation’s industry. It dropped as much
as 0.7 percent, its biggest intraday slide since Dec. 17, to
1.9999 per dollar before trading at 1.9887, down 0.1 percent.  The euro advanced earlier against most major counterparts
after an index of executive and consumer  sentiment  in the 17-
nation currency bloc rose to 89.2 from a revised 87.8 in
December, the European Commission in Brussels said today. That’s
the highest since June.  Clouds Lifted  The shared currency gained 4.7 percent versus the dollar
over the past three months amid speculation the worst of
Europe’s three-year-old sovereign-debt crisis is over. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on Jan. 22 the
“darkest clouds” over the currency bloc have lifted due to
decisive policy steps last year.  The euro may strengthen further against the dollar as the
region’s economy exceeds forecasts, according to  Alan Ruskin ,
global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in New York. He spoke in an interview on  Bloomberg
Radio ’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  The yen lost 12 percent since late October as its haven
appeal ebbed amid increasing risk appetite and as Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe, who took office last month, has pushed for “bold
monetary policy” to weaken the currency and defeat deflation.  The dollar extended losses against the euro after the Fed
issued a statement following a two-day meeting. Economic growth
“paused in recent months, in large part because of weather-
related disruptions and other transitory factors,” the policy-
setting FOMC said.  Unexpected Standstill  The  U.S. economy  unexpectedly came to a standstill in the
fourth quarter as the biggest plunge in defense spending in four
decades swamped gains for consumers and businesses, data showed.  Gross domestic product declined at a 0.1 percent annual
rate, weaker than any economist forecast in a Bloomberg survey
and the worst performance since the second quarter of 2009, when
the world’s largest economy was still in the recession, Commerce
Department figures showed today. The Bloomberg poll’s projection
was for a 1.1 percent increase.  The Fed said after its December meeting it would add $45
billion in monthly Treasury purchases to the $40 billion in
mortgage bonds it was buying to spur the economy. It’s the
central bank’s third round of asset purchases under the
quantitative-easing stimulus strategy.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011 in the first two rounds.  Policy makers also have held their benchmark  interest rate 
at zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 to fuel growth and reduce
unemployment.  The  jobless rate  held steady at 7.8 percent in January,
economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast before the U.S.
reports the data Feb. 1. Unemployment has persisted at that
level or higher since January 2009. It was 4.4 percent in
October 2006.  U.S. consumer prices rose 1.7 percent in 2012, Labor
Department data showed on Jan. 16. The Fed’s goal is 2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  