-- Dollar Set for Sixth Monthly Drop Before Jobless Claims
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-01-31T08:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/dollar-near-14-month-low-before-jobless-claims-data-after-fed.html
The dollar headed for a sixth
monthly loss versus the euro before a U.S. report that
economists said will show jobless claims increased, validating
the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to maintain asset purchases.  The U.S. currency dropped toward a 13-month low against the
euro and weakened against the yen after the Fed said yesterday
it will keep buying Treasuries and mortgage bonds. The yen
strengthened against all of its 16 major counterparts as
investors sought out safer assets. New Zealand’s dollar gained
after the central bank said it was concerned about rising house
prices, fueling bets on higher  interest rates .  “The Fed’s stance is still a dollar-negative factor until
such time as we can see enough improvement in the data to
meaningfully start pricing in an exit strategy,” said Ray Attrill, global co-head of currency strategy at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “The dollar is going to remain
relatively soft.”  The dollar was little changed at $1.3562 per euro as of
8:55 a.m. in  London , having declined 2.7 percent in January, the
biggest monthly loss since October 2011. The U.S. currency
weakened 0.2 percent to 90.92 yen. The yen appreciated 0.2
percent to 123.29 per euro.  U.S.  applications  for jobless benefits rose by 21,000 to
351,000 last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey before
today’s Labor Department report. The  jobless rate  was unchanged
at 7.8 percent in January, a separate survey showed before the
data is released tomorrow. Unemployment has stayed at that level
or higher since January 2009.  Fed Purchases  The Fed yesterday repeated that its asset purchases,
divided between $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed
securities and $45 billion a month of  Treasury securities , will
continue “if the outlook for the labor market does not improve
substantially.”  The central bank left unchanged its statement that it
planned to hold its target  interest rate  near zero as long as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and projected inflation
stays below 2.5 percent.  The yen strengthened the most against the South Korean won
and Australian dollar out of its 16 major counterparts.  Japan ’s
currency gained 0.5 percent versus the won and 0.4 percent
against the so-called Aussie.  Japanese  industrial  output increased less than economists
forecast last month, rising 2.5 percent from November, the Trade
Ministry said today in  Tokyo . Economists had predicted a 4.1
percent gain.  ‘More Room’  The data adds to challenges facing Prime Minister Shinzo Abe as he seeks to boost growth and end more than a decade of
deflation. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  this month doubled its price-gain
target to 2 percent and announced open-ended asset purchases
beginning next year.  “Yen depreciation has more room to go, in our view,”
Barclays Plc analysts led by Jose Wynne wrote yesterday in a
note to clients. “Market perceptions about economic growth
remain subdued and inflation expectations stubbornly low.”  The yen will weaken to 100 per dollar in 12 months, the
analysts wrote.  The  New Zealand dollar  rose versus 13 of its 16 major peers
after Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said policy makers
expect economic growth to strengthen this year.  Watching Closely  “House price inflation has increased and we are watching
this and household credit growth closely,” Wheeler said in a
statement in Wellington after keeping the official cash rate at
2.5 percent. “The bank does not want to see financial stability
or inflation risks accentuated by housing demand getting too far
ahead of supply.”  The so-called kiwi appreciated 0.2 percent to NZ$1.2438 per
Australian dollar and was little changed at 83.60 U.S. cents.  The central bank’s statement “was neutral to slightly
hawkish in tone,”  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist in
Sydney at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , wrote in a research note today.
The currency may climb toward 84 U.S. cents, he wrote.  South Korea ’s won fell for a second day versus the dollar
after Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku proposed taxes on
 currency trading  to limit “speculative” capital inflows.  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,088.59 per dollar at the
close of trading in  Seoul . The currency has declined 2.2 percent
this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  