-- Draghi Bank of Italy Knew of Monte Paschi Missteps in ’10
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-01-30T18:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/draghi-s-bank-of-italy-knew-of-monte-paschi-missteps-in-2010.html
The Bank of  Italy  under former
Governor Mario Draghi spotted accounting irregularities that
allowed  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  to mask losses more
than two years before the lender was forced to say it will have
to restate profit.  In 2010, “a problem came to light” on Monte Paschi’s
booking of a structured deal called Santorini, Italy’s Rome-
based central bank said in a report dated Jan. 28. The Bank of
Italy alerted “other authorities” a year later and talks with
those regulators, which it didn’t identify, haven’t concluded.
It didn’t explain the delay in forcing the bank to disclose the
information.  The Bank of Italy’s account of Monte Paschi’s use of
derivatives, released yesterday, calls into question its
oversight of the world’s oldest bank, which is seeking the
second taxpayer bailout in four years. Bloomberg News revealed
the Santorini deal in an article on Jan. 17.  Monte Paschi (BMPS) 
borrowed about 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) in December 2008
from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  as part of a derivative deal, dubbed
Project Santorini, that helped it disguise losses. Hours after
the Bloomberg report, Monte Paschi said it will conduct a
“thorough” review of several structured deals to determine
their effect on previous years’ accounts as well as any future
impact.  ‘Continuous’ Oversight  “I would have expected the Bank of Italy to have requested
transparency from Monte Paschi back in 2010 after reviewing the
transactions,” said Carlo Alberto Carnevale-Maffe, professor of
business strategy at Milan’s Bocconi University. “Hidden
documents found recently wouldn’t have changed the substance of
the original findings.”  The Bank of Italy said that as early as 2010 it sought
daily liquidity reports from the lender as margin calls on
Santorini drained funds. The regulator said a week ago Monte
Paschi hid documents, impeding its analysis of the “true
nature” of the company’s dealings.  Regulatory oversight of Monte Paschi was “continuous and
thorough” and the bank remains solid even with a capital
shortfall and possible losses linked to structured deals,
Finance Minister Vittorio Grilli said in parliament yesterday.  Monte Paschi  fell as much as  6.8 percent in Milan trading
and was down 5.9 percent to 25.2 cents at 1:45 p.m., giving the
bank a market value of 2.94 billion euros.  Draghi Role  Draghi, 65, led the Bank of Italy from 2005 to 2011, when
he left to succeed Jean-Claude Trichet, 70, at the helm of the
European Central Bank. He has worked as an economics professor
in Italy, a financial diplomat at the World Bank, a bureaucrat
at his country’s Treasury and a banker at  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  In December 2005, he was named to replace Italian central
bank Governor Antonio Fazio, 76.  Officials for the Bank of Italy didn’t have an immediate
comment. Asked about Draghi’s role in overseeing Monte Paschi,
an ECB spokeswoman declined to comment.  Prosecutors in Trani, Italy, opened an investigation into
the Bank of Italy and market watchdog Consob’s supervisory
activity on Monte Paschi, consumer group Adusbef said in an e-
mailed statement today. The investigation follows a complaint
submitted by the lobby earlier this year.  Masking Loss  Santorini helped Monte Paschi obscure a 367 million-euro
loss from an older derivative contract with Deutsche Bank,
according to more than 70 pages of documents outlining the deal
and obtained by Bloomberg News. As part of the arrangement, the
Italian lender made a losing bet on the value of the country’s
government bonds. The bank’s new management is still trying to
determine the extent to which Santorini and two other derivative
deals were used to distort earnings. Monte Paschi never
disclosed the effect of the 2008 deal in its annual reports.  The bond bet was among transactions that drew the Bank of
Italy’s scrutiny as early as 2009 as repo operations were
“resulting in the absorption of high liquidity margins,” the
regulator said in its Jan. 28 report.  The bank’s government bond holdings rose five-fold between
2009 and 2011 to more than 25 billion euros, resulting in
deterioration in its capital level when the sovereign-debt
crisis hit and Italy’s debt securities plunged. The bond losses
and the strain of its 9 billion-euro purchase of Banca
Antonveneta SpA in 2008 left the lender as the only major
Italian bank to need a government bailout.  Hidden Documents  The central bank followed up with more probes in 2011 and
2012, though the 2010 “inspection did not reveal any
information to support the launch of a sanctions procedure or an
alerting of the legal authorities,” the central bank said.  Monte Paschi told the Bank of Italy in 2011 the structured
deals were part of its “carry trade” strategies and weren’t
submitted to its administrative body. Meantime, the U.S. Federal
Reserve, Britain’s Financial Services Authority and Hong Kong’s
regulator helped monitor the bank’s liquidity at its branches in
New York,  London  and Hong Kong, the Bank of Italy’s report said.  Italy’s third-largest bank and prosecutors are now
reviewing three money-losing derivative deals, Santorini,
Alexandria and Nota Italia. The lender said it discovered in
October that former managers signed a “mandate agreement” with
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  to cover losses on a mortgage-backed
derivative called Alexandria with new, riskier derivatives.  The hidden document, proving the link between the
unprofitable Alexandria derivative with the new one, should have
led the bank to book a loss of more than 200 million euros on
the original transaction, instead of spreading it over the 30-
year maturity of the new deal.  Not ‘Police’  Monte Paschi Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola, who
took the helm a year ago, said Jan. 28 the bank has been unable
to find a similar mandate agreement for the Santorini financing.  Monte Paschi will complete the review of the losses, which
haven’t been quantified yet, in the first half of February, and
they will be included in the bank’s 2012 accounts, Viola said.  The Bank of Italy’s role isn’t to “police” Monte Paschi,
the current governor, Ignazio Visco, 63, said Jan. 25 in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Davos, Switzerland.  The Bank of Italy “summoned the senior management of Monte
Paschi” and of the foundation that is its biggest shareholder
in November 2011 “to make them face up to their
responsibilities and ask Paschi to quickly and definitively turn
around the way it conducts its business,” the report said.  Monte Paschi risks further losses of as much as 500 million
euros on a 2010 securitization of about 1.5 billion euros of
real estate loans, dubbed “Chianti Classico,” weekly Panorama
said today, citing documents that include minutes of board
meetings from November and December of last year. The bank
“forcefully denied” in an e-mailed statement that the deal
would produce losses.  Criticizing Bailout  Paschi’s general director Antonio Vigni left in January
2012, after almost six years at the top job. Executive Chairman
Giuseppe Mussari, 50, who led the bank since 2006, stepped down
in April and last week resigned as chairman of Italy’s banking
association.  Italian consumer association Codacons is seeking to block
Monte Paschi’s bailout. The group said it will file a complaint
in a  Rome  administrative court against the Cabinet, Economy
Ministry, Italy’s central bank and market regulator Consob,
seeking 3.9 billion euros in damages from the Bank of Italy for
not adequately monitoring the bank’s activities.  Codacons’ request follows criticism about the central
bank’s supervision raised by some politicians, including former
Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti and another consumer group,
Adusbef.  “New derivative accounting policies are needed in  Europe 
to avoid similar situations in the future,” said Giuseppe Di
Taranto, professor of financial history at Rome’s Luiss
University. “There’s too much room for interpretation under
current rules.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  