-- Violent Winter Storm Kills One as It Moves to U.S. Northeast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-30T22:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/east-coast-air-traffic-delays-mount-as-storm-aims-for-new-york.html
At least one person was killed and
eight injured as a winter storm raked the eastern U.S., knocking
out power, tying up air traffic from Atlanta to New York and
sending temperatures soaring in much of the Northeast.  The high temperature in New York City was forecast to reach
60 degrees Fahrenheit (16 Celsius), shy of the record 64 for the
day set in 2006, before a cold front brings heavy rain, strong
wind and colder air, said David Stark, a  National Weather
Service  meteorologist in Upton, New York.  “Tonight, with that cold front, we are going to see the
potential for some strong, gusty winds,” Stark said. “Also,
there is the potential for some small-stream and urban-type
flooding, particularly across New York City and the lower Hudson
Valley.”  High wind and flood warnings and advisories stretch from
West Virginia to Maine, while a tornado watch was posted from
Alabama to Virginia as the front advances across the U.S.  One man was killed in Adairsville, Georgia, about 60 miles
north of Atlanta, when a tornado struck the town, overturning
cars and wrecking buildings, according to the U.S. Storm
Prediction Center in Norman,  Oklahoma . At least eight people
were injured in Calhoun,  Georgia .  Flight Delays  Air traffic at Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson International
Airport has been delayed more than 90 minutes because of
thunderstorms, while poor visibility has led to waits of more
than two hours in New York,  Newark , New Jersey, and
Philadelphia, according to the  Federal Aviation Administration 
website.  At  Chicago ’s O’Hare International Airport, delays of about
an hour have been reported.  As of 5 p.m. New York time, 687 U.S. flights had been
canceled, with the majority of those occurring at Philadelphia,
LaGuardia and O’Hare, according to FlightAware, a Houston-based
flight data tracking company.  Wind gusts in New York may reach 55 miles (88 kilometers)
per hour and an inch of rain may fall, according to the weather
service. Gusts may reach 49 mph in Boston and 46 mph in
Philadelphia.  Washington  is expected to have sustained winds of as much
as 28 mph later today.  A daily record high of 63 degrees was set in Chicago
yesterday, breaking the old mark posted in 1914, according to
the weather service. The forecast high in Chicago today is 38
and the low is expected to fall to 16.  Weather Shift  New York and the rest of the East Coast are about to
experience that shift in temperatures as well, Stark said. By
tomorrow, the high in New York will be in the 40s with a low of
28. The normal high in New York is about 39, he said.  “We’re about 20 degrees above that for highs,” Stark
said. “Right now, our forecast doesn’t show any records, which
is 64, but we could see it come very close to that.”  Boston ’s temperature was 60 at 4 p.m. The low in two days
will be 19, according to the weather service. Philadelphia
reported 67 degrees and expects tomorrow’s low to fall to 28,
and Washington reached 70 at 4 p.m. and will probably fall to a
low of 31 tomorrow.  Winds toppled trees and power poles, leaving more than
63,000 homes and businesses without electricity from  Florida  to
 Pennsylvania  as of about 2:30 p.m. New York time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg from utility websites and company
spokesmen.  The largest number of power failures was in North Carolina
and South Carolina, where Duke Energy Corp. reported more than
15,700 customers blacked out.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  