-- ECB’s Nowotny Says Euro Exchange Rate Is Within ‘Long-Term Band’
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-01-30T13:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/ecb-s-nowotny-says-euro-exchange-rate-is-within-long-term-band-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said the appreciating euro shows
the central bank’s measures helped boost the economic outlook,
and the currency is trading in line with historic rates.  “We have seen that economic prospects are improving in
 Europe  as a whole,” Nowotny told reporters in Vienna today.
“The measures taken by the ECB have undoubtedly had a
stabilizing effect. But this is still an  exchange rate  that’s
moving within the usual, the long-term band.”  The euro extended gains today after a report showed
European economic confidence jumped more than economists
predicted. Europe’s 17-nation shared currency strengthened 0.4
percent to $1.3545 at 1:08 p.m. London time, trading above $1.35
for the first time since December 2011. Even after climbing 2.7
percent this year, it’s still below the five-year average of
$1.3720.  A slump in the yen of at least 9 percent against all its 16
major peers in the past three months made the risk of so-called
currency wars, in which trade partners retaliate to protect
their companies in markets, a theme of the  World Economic
Forum ’s annual meeting in Davos,  Switzerland , last week. With
 Japan ’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pushing for currency-debasing
monetary easing, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told delegates
on Jan. 24 that “I can’t say I’m completely free of worry when
I look at Japan right now.”  While the upswing in Europe is beginning to show in
economic indicators, growth rates are still subdued, Nowotny
said today. “Confidence indicators such as the Ifo index show
an upswing, but you have to say, at a weak rate,” he said.
Forecasts for Austria and Germany are likely to be revised
slightly upwards, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  