-- ECB Says Banks Tightened Credit Standards in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2013-01-30T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/ecb-says-banks-tightened-credit-standards-in-fourth-quarter.html
The  European Central Bank  said euro-
area banks tightened credit standards in the fourth quarter as
demand for loans declined.  “The net tightening of credit standards by euro-area banks
for loans to enterprises was broadly stable in the fourth
quarter of 2012,” while “net tightening in the fourth quarter
of 2012 increased for loans to households for house purchase and
for  consumer credit ,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said in its
quarterly Bank Lending Survey today. Banks expect to tighten
credit standards for loans to companies at a similar degree in
the first quarter.  Lending to households and companies in the euro area
contracted for an eighth month in December after the sovereign
debt crisis pushed the 17-nation region into its second
recession in four years. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Jan.
10 that credit conditions will improve this year even as weak
economic activity weighs on credit demand.  Banks reported a “pronounced net decline” in demand for
company loans in the fourth quarter, the ECB said. They expect a
“less pronounced” decline in the first three months of the
year.  “The net decline in the fourth quarter of 2012 was driven
mainly by a substantial negative impact from fixed investment on
the financing needs of firms,” the ECB said. “Mergers and
acquisitions and inventories and working capital contributed
less to the net decline in demand for loans to enterprises.”  New regulation and capital requirements continued to
contribute to a net tightening of credit standards, the ECB
said. At the same time, banks’ access to retail and wholesale
funding improved in the fourth quarter and the effect of the
debt crisis on funding conditions abated significantly,
according to the report.  Some 131 banks participated in the survey, which was
conducted between Dec. 14 and Jan. 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in Frankfurt at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  