-- Tech Spending Rebounds as Global Slowdown Fears Abate
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-01-30T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/tech-spending-rebounds-as-global-slowdown-fears-abate.html
Corporate technology spending is
poised to exceed industry projections this year, as the global
economy’s recovery spurs investment.  Worldwide expenditures will increase 4.2 percent to $3.7
trillion in 2013, outpacing last year’s 1.2 percent growth rate,
based on a forecast from Gartner Inc., an industry researcher.
This broad measure -- which includes hardware, software and
services -- may underestimate spending, which could expand as
much as 5 percent, according to estimates by Rich Kugele, an
analyst in  Boston  at Needham & Co. who has monitored the
industry since 1998.  Companies began “under-spending” in May, which lasted
through December as “the world became skittish,” Kugele said.
With a partial resolution to the so-called fiscal cliff in the
U.S. and amid signs of economic re-acceleration in  China  and
stabilization in  Europe , the negativity that’s dragged down the
industry is starting to lift because “there’s a limit to how
long companies can hold back spending on technology that drives
the global economy.”  U.S. gross domestic product will expand 2 percent this
year, the euro area economy will shrink 0.1 percent after
contracting 0.4 percent in 2012 and China’s GDP will accelerate
8.1 percent, based on the median forecasts of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The U.S. economy grew an estimated 2.3
percent last year, while China’s rose 7.8 percent.  Rising ETF  While shares of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of iPods and iPads, have
fallen  35 percent  since Sept. 19, other technology companies
have been attracting investment more recently. The Guggenheim
Standard & Poor’s 500 Equal-Weight Technology exchange-traded
fund has risen  14 percent  since Oct. 31, compared with the
 Guggenheim S&P 500 Equal-Weight ETF (RSP) ’s  10 percent  gain.  The technology ETF provides a “different perspective” for
the industry by diminishing the impact of any one “oversized”
weighting, such as Apple, said Erick Maronak, chief investment
officer at Victory Capital Management Inc. in New York, which
oversees $28 billion. The recent outperformance of this ETF
relative to the market, albeit modest, shows “actual, decent
performance” among many technology stocks, particularly small
caps, he said.  ‘Slightly Positive’  Companies became cautious because of “uncertainty out of
 Washington ,” though the deal reached earlier this month between
Congress and President  Barack Obama  could result in a “break
from seasonality,” Kugele said. The compromise Obama signed
into law Jan. 2 averted income-tax increases on most Americans
and delayed automatic spending cuts until March 1.  Spending on technology typically is “flat-to-down”
through June, whereas growth may be “slightly positive” in the
first half this year, Kugele said.  This sentiment was echoed by  Synnex Corp. (SNX) , which provides
services including IT distribution and supply-chain management.
Synnex is “on track” to reach $250 million revenue in its
global business-services division, compared with $197.4 million
in the 12 months ended Nov. 30, President and Chief Executive
Officer Kevin Murai said on a Jan. 10 conference call. “Much of
the global economic uncertainty is behind us now, which we
believe will help free pent-up demand.”  Kugele maintains a buy recommendation on the Fremont,
California-based company.  Productivity, Efficiency  Investment in data centers to provide storage, software and
other computing tasks over the Internet also could spur spending
and attract investors because these “good secular trends”
increase productivity and efficiency while lowering costs,
according to Maronak. Spending related to these cloud services,
at $16 billion last year, will grow to as much as $80 billion in
the next few years, he said, citing industry estimates.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest semiconductor maker, saw
revenue in its data-center group rise 6 percent in 2012 from the
prior year, according to a Jan. 17 statement. The group, which
accounted for 20 percent of annual net sales, benefited from “a
richer mix of products and significant growth in the Internet
cloud segment of our business,” Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith said on a conference call that day. The Santa Clara,
California-based company forecasts the unit will “return to
double-digit revenue growth” this year, he added.  “It’s hard to bet against the big, monolithic names,”
such as Intel and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  that will benefit from these
“big changes,” Maronak said. Still, smaller companies --
including  ARM Holdings Plc. (ARM) ,  Red Hat Inc. (RHT)  and  Citrix Systems
Inc. (CTXS)  -- are another way to get exposure to the increased role of
data centers, he said, noting that his fund currently holds
these stocks.  ‘Slow-Growth Mode’  The U.S. “should be in slow-growth mode” this year and
now that Europe has “taken the meltdown risk off the table”
and China’s economy is recovering, cash-flush companies may be
more comfortable spending again, said David Katz, who oversees
about $850 million as chief investment officer at New York-based
Matrix Asset Advisors Inc. One driver of technology spending
will be “some catch-up” as businesses upgrade Microsoft’s
Windows operating system, he said.  The world’s largest software maker is ending support for
Windows XP, which debuted in 2001, as it encourages companies to
transition to newer versions, including Windows 8, which it
released in October. Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft is
seeing “solid demand for our business products and services,
with particularly strong growth in multi-year licensing,” Chief
Financial Officer Peter Klein said on a Jan. 24 conference call.  Industry Benefit  This update is “going to affect the whole computer food
chain,” Katz said.  Microsoft and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  probably will be the
“lead horses” because their stock prices are “very
depressed” compared with pre-recession highs, and investors may
be too pessimistic about technology, Katz said. “We’re
confident there’s going to be a better spending cycle this year,
and you’re getting paid a reasonable yield” so there’s
potential for an “upside surprise,” he said.  Even so, “robust” spending will depend on whether
“company management loosen their purse strings,” Maronak said.
Big investments are determined by economic-growth expectations,
namely U.S. job creation, he said.  Employers added 161,000 jobs this month, based on the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. This
follows six months when gains averaged about 160,000, based on
data from the Labor Department, which is scheduled to release
January numbers on Feb. 1.  By the second quarter, it will be apparent whether the
spending environment has improved, Kugele said. While some
investors still are “in their bunkers” about segments of the
industry, a more optimistic sentiment will benefit stock prices
of companies “on the bubble,” he said.  “If tech spending is up, that should lift all boats,”
Katz said. “There certainly are some compelling opportunities
right now for investment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  