-- Medicare Panel Says Alzheimer’s Brain Scans May Not Help
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-01-30T21:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/medicare-panel-says-alzheimer-s-brain-scans-may-not-help.html
Advanced brain scans to detect signs
of Alzheimer’s disease may be denied coverage by Medicare after
a U.S. advisory panel said it isn’t confident the tests will
improve the health of people in the program.  The panel voted today at a meeting in Baltimore that it had
low to intermediate confidence in improved health outcomes from
PET scans meant to show telltale plaques in the brains of
Alzheimer’s patients. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services has been weighing whether to begin paying for the
scans, which use  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s drug Amyvid, or florbetapir,
and can cost as much as $3,000 each.  The Alzheimer’s Association and the Society of Nuclear
Medicine and Molecular Imaging are urging Medicare, the $560
billion U.S. health-insurance program for the elderly and
disabled, to cover the procedure. Doctors at the meeting said
the scans can give patients greater certainty about their
conditions, while critics said the technology hasn’t been
sufficiently vetted.  “There’s never been a study that asked whether patients do
better as a result of florbetapir testing,” said David
Kuhlmann, a neurologist at Bothwell Regional Health Center in
Sedalia,  Missouri .  Howard Fillit , executive director of the Alzheimer’s Drug
Discovery Foundation in  New York , argued for coverage of the
scan and told the panel about a 59-year-old patient he treated
who appeared to have the disease and couldn’t afford the
procedure.  “She was forced to resign from work,” he said. “Her life
is in limbo while she waits for a definitive diagnosis from the
test of time.”  Brain Plaque  Lilly urged Medicare to cover the scans despite the
advisory panel’s vote. It’s the first test that can reveal
amyloid plaques in the brains of living Alzheimer’s patients,
and doctors say the procedure can change their diagnoses and
treatment plans, Wei-Li Shao, senior director of the Alzheimer’s
business at the Indianapolis-based company, said in a phone
interview.  “Good information is the cornerstone of a good
diagnosis,” he said. “Lilly is firmly resolved and remains
steadfast in its belief that this technology should be available
to Medicare beneficiaries.”  PET scans require a drug injected into patients to
highlight brain plaque for doctors. Lilly’s Amyvid is the only
compound currently approved for use with PET scans for this
purpose.  Alzheimer’s, the most-common form of dementia, is the
sixth-leading cause of death in the U.S., according to the
 Alzheimer’s Association . The number of people with the disease
is expected to double within 20 years as the world’s population
ages, to as many as 65.7 million people in 2030 and 115 million
by 2050, the  World Health Organization  said in April.  There is no treatment to cure or slow the disease. Current
therapies address only symptoms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  