-- Megan Fox Joins Ambev in 007-Playboy Beer Duel in Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-01-30T23:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/megan-fox-joins-ambev-in-007-playboy-beer-duel-in-brazil.html
Cia. de Bebidas das Americas  is
casting Megan Fox against James Bond and Playboy to boost beer
sales amid slowing consumption in its Brazilian home market.  Latin America ’s largest brewer, known as Ambev, hired the
U.S. actress as a celebrity spokeswoman at Brazil’s Carnival
next month. She will go up against Tokyo-based  Kirin Holdings
Co. (2503) ’s Playboy-branded brew and  Heineken NV (HEIA) ’s Heineken, which is
being pushed by 007 actor  Daniel Craig .  Premium brands in Brazil such as Budweiser are pivotal for
Sao Paulo-based Ambev amid a stagnant local market and a loss of
global share for parent  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV. (ABI)  Budweiser has
won 11.5 percent of Brazil’s premium-beer sales since debuting
in mid-2011, bolstering revenue and helping Ambev post the best
five-year annualized total return among beverage-industry  peers .  “They are the dominating player,” said Daniel Isidori,
who manages  Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd .’s Threadneedle
Latin America Fund, which owns an undisclosed Ambev stake and
had assets of 855.9 million pounds ($1.35 billion) as of Dec.
31. “They are the most active of the companies regarding
marketing and also they are price leaders.”  Brazil  accounted for 58 percent of Ambev’s 22.7 billion
reais ($11.4 billion) in global beer revenue in 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Beer was the biggest portion of
the company’s 27.1 billion reais in sales.  Market Dominance  Ambev has a 70 percent share of Brazil’s beer market, the
world’s third-biggest, with 10 percent each for Kirin and
closely held Grupo Petropolis and 9 percent for Heineken,
according to London-based researcher Mintel Group Ltd.  Lauren Torres, an HSBC Holdings Plc analyst in  New York ,
estimates that Ambev’s domestic market share has stayed in a
range of 68 percent to 70 percent since 2008. AB InBev, the
world’s largest brewer, saw its global share drop to 18.2
percent in 2011 from 19.9 percent in 2008, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg. Ambev’s local dominance makes premium
sales a priority, Torres said.  “To get from 70 to 80 or 90 percent is harder,” she said.
“It’s more important to make more money than just to sell more
beer.”  Ambev’s 2012  revenue  probably rose 16 percent to 31.5
billion reais, the average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. That compares with a projected 1.8 percent gain for
Leuven, Belgium-based AB InBev to $39.7 billion, based on 31
projections.  Ambev’s Returns  The five-year annualized total return for Ambev was 35
percent, the most among 16 beverage producers, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  shares  rose 45 percent in the 12
months ended yesterday to 92.57 reais, compared with a 4.1
percent drop in the benchmark  Bovespa index . AB InBev climbed 48
percent in the same period.  Ambev rose 0.6 percent to 93.17 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo  trading.  Tatiana Katibian, a spokeswoman for Ambev, didn’t return
telephone and e-mail requests for comment.  While premium brands make up 20 percent of sales in the
U.S., the world’s biggest beer market, they account for only 5
percent of consumption in Brazil, according to an Ambev
presentation to  investors . The segment probably will grow 1
percent a year, HSBC’s Torres estimated.  Beer Market  That would match the pace of expansion in Brazil’s broader
beer market, based on estimates from Ambev and Mintel Group.
Growth in per capita consumption fell to 2 percent in 2011 from
7.6 percent a year earlier, and probably slid further to 1
percent in 2012, the firm estimated.  With beer sales growth likely to run at about the same
pace, premium brands are “one of the primary pillars of
profitability for the next few years,” said Lucas Marangoni, a
Mintel Group analyst. “With the increase in purchasing power of
the Brazilian consumer and greater maturity in relation to the
differences between beers, the trend is that the movement is
accentuated and Brazilians start to spend more on premium
beers.”  The challenge for Ambev and its premium-brand rivals is a
slowing economy. Growth in Brazil’s  gross domestic product 
probably slid to 1 percent in 2012, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg, from 2.7 percent in 2011 and 7.5 percent a year
earlier. GDP expansion may run at a 3.5 percent rate in 2013.  “The Brazilian consumer will continue to consume more, but
not on the same scale as previously seen,” Marangoni said.  Celebrity Endorsers  Fox, who starred in Hollywood’s “Transformers” movie
series, will have company in the celebrity marketplace when she
appears for Ambev at Rio de Janeiro’s Sambadrome parade grounds,
the heart of the Carnival celebration. The festivities precede
the start of Lent, which begins with Ash Wednesday on Feb. 13.  Kirin’s Devassa Playboy brand -- Devassa means “depraved”
in Portuguese, and Playboy is a tie-in to the U.S. men’s
magazine -- hired local actress Alinne Moraes as an endorser
after spending 100 million reais in 2010 to promote its blonde
beer, Devassa Bem Loura, with the help of hotel heiress and
socialite  Paris Hilton . Heineken’s TV commercials include
appearances by Craig, the latest actor to portray the  James Bond 
Agent 007 character.  Simone Grazielle, a spokeswoman for Kirin, declined to
comment for this story, as did John-Paul Schuirink, a spokesman
at Heineken, which entered the Brazilian market in 2010.  “The brewers are looking to trade up consumers to premium
brands with increased marketing and brand promotions,” HSBC’s
Torres said in a written response to questions. “The Brazilian
consumer has increasing disposable income and a growing interest
in branded/aspirational products.”  Ambev’s size and its array of brands in Brazil gives it an
advantage in trying to boost premium sales, Isidori, the
Threadneedle  fund manager , said in a telephone interview from
 London .  “It’s very difficult to compete with a company that has
presence for quite some time that has very well-known brands and
is very active in marketing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  