-- Egypt Stocks Rise From Month Low on Dialogue Calls to End Unrest
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-30T14:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/egypt-stocks-rise-from-month-low-on-dialogue-calls-to-end-unrest.html
Egypt ’s stocks rose from the lowest
in almost one month on bets the nation’s opposition groups may
be willing to meet with President Mohamed Mursi on steps to put
an end to violence that’s left dozens dead in the past week.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the nation’s
biggest publicly traded lender, advanced 1.9 percent.  Orascom
Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE)  rose to the highest level in almost 11
months. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  climbed 1.5 percent, the most
since Jan. 3, to 5,576.01 at the close in Cairo.  Reform leader Mohamed ElBaradei called for a meeting
between Mursi, an Islamist, and opposition groups including the
secular National Salvation Front to “take urgent measure to end
violence and begin serious dialogue.” The call, which appeared
on his Twitter account, comes after violence that began on the
second anniversary of the Jan. 25 revolt that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . Stocks fell 3.4 percent in the three trading days that
followed, closing at the weakest level since Dec. 31 yesterday.  “The market is taking a breather today on the back of
optimism the opposition will meet with Mursi” and reach a
political resolution, said Wafik Dawood, director of
institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities.
“The heightened tensions raised question marks on the
International Monetary Fund loan and the economic scene.”  Unrest Escalates  Until now opposition groups have rejected calls for
dialogue, eroding hopes for stability in a nation whose economy
has been growing at its slowest pace in two decades since the
start of the revolution. More than 50 people have died during
protests since Jan. 25. The nation’s defense chief warned
yesterday that political unrest could bring about the “collapse”
of the state.  The unrest sent the yield on the government’s 5.75 percent
dollar-denominated 2020 bonds soaring 35 basis points, or 0.35
of a percentage point, the biggest jump since June, to 6.25
percent as of 4:39 p.m. in Cairo. The yield has soared 69 basis
points since Jan. 25. The pound weakened 0.1 percent to 6.6860 a
dollar today, taking its drop in the past month to 7.4 percent.  Masood Ahmed, head of the IMF  Middle East  and Central Asia
Department, said Jan. 19 a delegation may visit Cairo in the
coming weeks to finalize a $4.8 billion loan deal that’s been
stalled by unrest since an initial agreement was signed in
November. The fund was waiting for Egyptian authorities to
update an economic program attached to program, he said.  Commercial International climbed for the first time in
three days, rising to 35.68 pounds. Wireless carrier Orascom
Telecom advanced 1.9 percent to 4.32 pounds, the highest close
since March 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  