-- Mursi Pressure Grows as Opposition Urges Unity Government
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-01-31T10:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/egypt-s-mursi-gives-governors-power-over-curfew-to-ease-tension.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi is
under mounting pressure to bring rivals into government, as a
powerful Islamist party joined calls by the secular opposition
for a unity coalition to ease a week of violent protests.  Mursi cut short a visit to  Germany  yesterday and returned
to Egypt, where protesters have been calling for him to quit
even as he signaled a retreat on emergency measures imposed on
three Suez Canal provinces. Deadly clashes there accounted for
most of the more than 50 killed over the past week. Curfews in
all three provinces were eased by their governors hours after
Mursi granted them authority to revise the measures.  Further protests are planned by the secular opposition
tomorrow, raising the possibility of renewed violence. Their
call for a new administration to address the crisis won backing
from the Salafi Nour Party, an Islamist rival to Mursi’s Muslim
Brotherhood. “No one group can rule the country on its own” in
the current climate, the party said late yesterday.  Mursi’s secular and youth activist critics accuse him of
selling short the goals of the revolution to buttress the power
of his Muslim Brotherhood backers. The violence, which broke out
on the second anniversary of the uprising against  Hosni Mubarak ,
reflects tensions that have built up since Mursi’s election in
June, and represents his most serious challenge since then. It’s
also eroding hopes for stability in an economy  growing at the
slowest pace  in two decades since the start of the revolution.  ‘Torn Apart’  Fitch yesterday pushed Egypt’s credit rating deeper into
junk status, while Moody’s Investors Service said the unrest
adds to credit-negative pressures on the economy. Yields on
Egypt’s benchmark dollar bonds yesterday rose the most since
Mursi took office. The pound has slid 7.5 percent in the past
month.  Many poorer Egyptians blame leaders on both sides for
neglecting the economy and focusing on a political struggle that
has little relation to their need for jobs and food.  “We’re being torn apart by two sets of groups, neither of
which really represent Egypt,” Tamer Hassan, a 29-year-old who
has yet to find full-time work, said in Cairo.  The Nour, which had the second largest bloc of seats in the
now-dissolved parliament, called for a unity government and a
committee to work on constitutional amendments. The demands echo
those made by the secular opposition.  Mursi, speaking in Berlin yesterday at a joint press
conference with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , said he’s
committed to “an expanded national discussion that would
include all political parties” to revise the constitution,
drafted by a mostly Islamist panel and passed in a referendum
last month.  Upheaval ‘Natural’  He dismissed the other key opposition demand, saying a new
government would be formed after parliamentary elections in a
few months. Mursi also sought to downplay the crisis at home,
saying the upheaval was “natural” in the shift to democracy.  Earlier,  Mohamed ElBaradei , one of the leaders of the
National Salvation Front, called for an urgent meeting with
Mursi, the army and security chiefs and other groups, saying
ending the violence was a priority. The call marked a reversal
for ElBaradei, who has so far rejected invitations by Mursi,
though he stuck to his condition of a unity government for
“serious” dialogue to start.  Omar Ashour, a senior lecturer in Middle East studies at
the U.K.’s University of Exeter, said ElBaradei and others are
playing a “very, very dangerous game” by seeking to bring the
military into the discussion.  ‘Ultimate Test’  “The ultimate test for democracy is whether elected
civilians are in control of the armed forces and the police or
not,” he said. “If not, then it never becomes a democracy.”  Defense Minister Abdelfatah Al-Seesi raised concern about
strains on the military with his Jan. 29 warning that political
turbulence may lead to “the collapse of the state.” He said it
left the army in a “serious predicament,” with dual
responsibilities not to interfere in peaceful protests while
also protecting state property.  The army,  Egypt ’s traditional power-broker, ran the country
between Mubarak’s fall and Mursi’s election. Troops have been
deployed in Suez and Port Said to secure installations including
Suez Canal facilities from attack.  As in the last days of Mubarak’s rule, soldiers haven’t
enforced the curfews, which have been openly defied by
thousands. Frequent attacks on police stations and other
government buildings in the emergency-rule areas spread to other
provinces. Over 1,000 riot police and officers refused to leave
their barracks, demanding they be better armed, the state-run
Al-Ahram reported today.  Mursi said in Berlin that the defense minister “was
tolling the bell, he wasn’t saying the state is currently
collapsing.” Still, he said Egypt is “in a very critical phase
that we want to pass through.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  