-- Election Watchdog Simplifies Question in Scots Independence Vote
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-01-30T12:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/election-watchdog-simplifies-question-in-scots-independence-vote.html
Voters in Scotland will be asked
“yes or no” to whether the country should be independent in
next year’s referendum after the  Electoral Commission 
recommended simplifying the question to ensure neutrality.  The proposal from the U.K. election watchdog differs from
the one put forward last year by Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond, who wanted to ask voters whether they “agreed” that
Scotland should be independent. The two main groups campaigning
for and against independence also should be allowed to spend 1.5
million pounds ($2.37 million) each in the 16 weeks before the
vote, the Commission said in an e-mailed statement today.  Salmond and U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron agreed in
Edinburgh last year to hold the referendum by the end of 2014.
The semi-autonomous Scottish government, run by Salmond’s pro-
independence Scottish National Party, said today it will adopt
the Electoral Commission’s proposals.  “I am delighted with the conclusion the Electoral
Commission has reached on the question,” Deputy First Minister
Nicola Sturgeon, who is spearheading the “yes” campaign, said
in the statement. “I am also pleased with the spending limits
proposed. They deliver a level playing field and will allow a
fair and balanced debate on both sides.”  The spending limits are twice the 750,000 pounds proposed
by the SNP. Expenditure by individual political parties will be
based on the votes they received at the 2011 Scottish
parliamentary elections, in which the SNP won a majority.  Canvassing Opinion  The Electoral Commission consulted academics, politicians,
voters and campaigners on the wording of the question to ensure
that it was simple, unambiguous and neutral, it said in the
statement. It took 12 weeks from receiving the request from the
Scottish government on Oct. 5 to carry out the assessment.  Support for independence in Scotland is at its lowest since
the country got a devolved government in 1999. Backing for
independence fell to 23 percent last year from 32 percent in
2011, according to the annual Scottish Social Attitudes survey.  The U.K. and Scottish governments should jointly tell
voters ahead of the referendum what might happen in both
potential outcomes of the vote, the commission said today.  Salmond said previously he would consider a third option of
extra power for Scotland without full independence, though the
idea was rejected by Cameron’s government. Salmond won the right
to extend the vote to 16- and 17-year-olds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  