-- Hellenic Telecom Offers to Pay Record Coupon on 5-Year Bond
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-01-30T16:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/hellenic-telecom-offers-to-pay-record-coupon-on-five-year-bonds.html
Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO)  is offering its highest  interest rate  to lure
buyers to the lowest-rated offering from a European peripheral
company in at least seven years.  Greece’s largest phone company, known as OTE, will issue
700 million euros ($948 million) of five-year bonds paying a
7.875 percent coupon, according to a person with knowledge of
the deal. The rate compares with the 7.25 percent that the
Athens-based company pays holders of bonds it sold in 2011 that
come due next year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OTE, which is 40 percent owned by  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , is
selling bonds to redeem more than 1 billion euros of notes due
this year and next, the person familiar with the deal said. The
new issue is the first benchmark-sized offering from a Greek
company since OTE’s sale in 2011, and follows Titan Cement Co.
SA’s 200 million-euro issue of 8.75 percent 2017 bonds last
month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The coupon seems to be pricing in about a 60 percent
probability of a Greek default, which seems too high,” said
Stuart Stanley, a  fund manager  at Invesco Asset Management Ltd.
in London, who oversees $3 billion of high-yield bonds. “Its
rating doesn’t help bond investors who like the company but fear
the sovereign risk.”  The bonds are being sold at a discount to yield 8 percent,
the person said.  Bonds of companies in the euro area’s peripheral countries
such as Greece, Spain and Italy yield 2.9 percent on average,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Periphery Non-Financial
index shows. That’s down from as much as 5.48 percent in June.  OTE, which is 10 percent  owned  by the Greek government, is
 rated  Caa1 at Moody’s Investors Service, seven steps below
investment grade. Speculative-grade, or junk, debt is rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB-by Fitch and
 Standard & Poor’s .  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  