-- Emaar Shares Rally as Sales Signal Property Rebound: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-30T10:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/emaar-shares-rally-as-sales-signal-property-rebound-dubai-mover.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  shares jumped
to the highest close in more than three years as apartment sales
of the developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper picked up
amid a recovery in Dubai.  Shares of the company with the heaviest weighting on
Dubai’s index rose 1.5 percent to 4.88 dirhams, the strongest
close since October 2009. The stock was the  biggest gainer  on
Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  today, which advanced 1.1 percent to
1,874.02, the highest since March 2010.  Emaar has rallied 8.9 percent since the company said Jan.
27 that a luxury hotel project in central Dubai sold out all
units available in the first offering. The stock is set to rise
above 5 dirhams, according to Waleed Al Khateeb, senior finance
manager at Daman Securities LLC. That would take it to the
highest level since the beginning of a real estate crash in
Dubai that sent property prices plunging more than 65 percent.  “Sentiment for the real estate sector has been strong and
long-term investors have taken an interest in Emaar again,
especially given its earnings prospects and fundamentals,” said
Dubai-based Al Khateeb. “Investors expect the recovery to
continue as new projects are announced.” Daman is the  ninth
biggest-brokerage  in the United Arab Emirates, according to
Dubai bourse data.  Apartment Sales  Emaar has benefited from an increase in home prices in some
parts of Dubai, with its  apartment sales  more than doubling in
the third quarter. The developer is set to post a  16 percent
increase  in 2012 profit, according to the average estimate of 11
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai is returning to large projects that dominated the
market before the crash after the emirate’s economy expanded 5
percent in 2012, the fastest pace since 2007, according to
government estimates. In November, the city announced plans to
develop a new district with the world’s largest mall, 100 hotels
and gardens larger than London’s Hyde Park, which Emaar will co-
develop. The sheikhdom also plans to build five theme parks for
$2.7 billion.  The property industry will probably witness “a broader-
base recovery” this year, even as central bank restrictions on
mortgage lending and higher supply potentially slow price
increases, according to Jones Lang LaSalle.  Mortgage caps on expatriate home buyers will drive out
speculators and support Emaar in the long run, Al Khateeb said.
Foreigners make up more than 80 percent of the U.A.E.
population, according to government estimates. Dubai first
allowed expatriates to own property in 2002, sparking a real
estate boom that spurred Emaar’s share price to as high as 28.7
dirhams in September 2005.  The company’s  14-day relative strength index  rose to 87
today. A reading above 70 indicates to some analysts that a
security is poised to drop.  Twelve analysts  recommend investors
buy Emaar shares, while three say to hold them, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  