-- Emerging ETF Falls as U.S. Economy Data Sinks Brazil to Turkey
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-01-30T21:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/emerging-stocks-head-for-best-monthly-streak-in-three-years.html
The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index retreated and developing-nation stocks fell as a report
showed the  U.S. economy  unexpectedly shrank in the fourth
quarter, dimming the global outlook.  Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s MPX Energia SA led
declines on the MSCI Emerging Markets stock index. Turkey’s
 Besiktas Futbol Yatirimlar Sanayi ve Ticaret AS  sank the most in
nearly two years, sending the benchmark index to the lowest
level in 2013.  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) , Poland’s second-biggest lender,
tumbled the most in 16 months after UniCredit SpA said it was
selling a stake. Russian stocks dropped.  The iShares emerging-markets exchange-traded fund slipped
0.5 percent to $44.13 in  New York , as 401 stocks on the MSCI
developing-nations gauge fell while 376 rose. The U.S. economy
contracted 0.1 percent last quarter, the worst performance since
the second quarter of 2009. The 21 nations in MSCI index send
about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S., data compiled by
the World Trade Organization show.  “The U.S. economy still is the world’s biggest economy,
and what happens in the U.S. matters to emerging markets,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging markets economist at Capital Economics
Ltd., said by phone from London. “This will perhaps rekindle
some fears of the pace of recovery in the developed world, and
if that slows, growth in the emerging world will tend to slow,
with export demand weakened in particular.”  The  MSCI emerging-markets index  fell 0.2 percent to
1,068.20, after earlier climbing as much as 0.4 percent. It has
climbed 1.2 percent in January, capping the longest monthly
rally in since April 2010. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options
prices on the ETF and expectations of price swings, advanced 3.5
percent to 18.68.  Bovespa Falls  The U.S. Federal Reserve will keep purchasing securities at
the rate of $85 billion a month as the economy paused because of
temporary forces including bad weather, the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said today at the conclusion of a two-day meeting in
 Washington .  “Although strains in the global financial markets have
eased somewhat, the committee continues to see downside risks to
the economic outlook,” the FOMC said.  Brazil’s Bovespa index lost 1.8 percent to the lowest level
since Dec. 13. Oil producer  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA 
drove declines on the gauge, sinking 7.8 percent in the biggest
slump since Aug. 29.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, sank 4.8 percent to a seven-month low. The producer
said Jan. 29 that it will increase gasoline prices at refineries
by 6.6 percent and diesel by 5.4 percent, stoking concern over
inflation. MPX Energia plunged 10 percent in the steepest one-
day drop since November 2008.  Futbol Sinks  The Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index dropped 3.9
percent after the measure reached a record Jan. 24. Besiktas
Futbol plunged 15 percent, the most since February 2011. The
company said yesterday after the market closed that it will
raise capital through a rights offer.  Russia’s Micex Index fell 0.4 percent in day trading and
lost less than 0.1 percent in the evening session after the U.S.
GDP figures were released.  Pekao dropped 6.4 percent in Warsaw, the most since
September 2011, after UniCredit said it was selling as much as
9.1 percent of its local unit to free capital and increase
earnings. The sale of as much as 23.9 million shares is valued
at 3.98 billion zloty ($1.3 billion) based on yesterday’s
closing price. Poland’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  lost 1.1 percent to the
lowest level since Dec. 10.  Egypt Measures  Emerging stocks climbed earlier as the  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP) 
Index extended its bull-market rally,  Egypt  rebounded from a
month low and economic confidence in Europe rose more than
forecast.  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index added 1.5 percent, the most since Jan.
3. President Mohamed Mursi gave three regional governors
authority to review emergency measures imposed in their
provinces to ease tensions, after a wave of violent unrest led
his defense chief to warn of the possible collapse of the state.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Egypt to B from B+, citing a
worsening fiscal position, political turmoil and deteriorating
economic growth. The outlook was set at negative.  The Shanghai Composite gauge jumped 1 percent, while the
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of companies listed in Hong
Kong gained 0.8 percent. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP) 
rose 0.6 percent to a record, extending yesterday’s 0.7 percent
gain after President  Benigno Aquino  said the economy grew faster
than the government’s forecast in 2012. Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  and
South Korea’s Kospi index climbed 0.4 percent.  Consumer Slump  A gauge of consumer stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets
index lost 0.8 percent, the most among 10  industry groups . The
emerging-markets measure has gained 1.2 percent this year,
trailing a 5.3 percent gain in the MSCI World Index. The
developing-nations index trades for 11 times estimated profit,
compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.7, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Harmony Gold Mining Co., Africa’s third-largest producer of
the metal, increased 1.6 percent, the steepest gain since Jan.
18. A “breakthrough” on negotiations relating to possible job
cuts may come by Feb. 6, Chief Executive Office Graham Briggs
said in an interview on Johannesburg’s SAfm radio.  Capital Securities Corp. (6005)  gained to a 10-month high in
Taipei and China Merchants Securities Co. advanced in Shanghai
after Taiwan doubled the limit mainland Chinese institutions can
invest in its market.  China Railway  China Railway Group (390)  added 3 percent in  Hong Kong . The
railway ministry plans to spend 117 billion  yuan  ($18.8 billion)
to buy rail cars this year, exceeding the 108.2 billion yuan
spent in 2012, the China Securities Journal reported, citing an
unidentified person from the industry.  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP) , which supplies all of South
Korea’s electricity, tumbled 5 percent. The company has no
immediate plans to further raise electricity tariffs, Yonhap
News reported, citing Chief Executive Officer Cho Hwan Eik.  The South Korean won was the worst performer among emerging
market currencies, weakening 0.3 percent. The Indian rupee
appreciated 0.9 percent to the strongest level since Oct. 17.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points, or 0.4
percentage point, to 261, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  