-- Hengdeli Declines After Report Some Watch Licenses Lost
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2013-01-31T09:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/hengdeli-plunges-after-report-some-exclusive-watch-licenses-lost.html
Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389) , the Chinese
retail partner of  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , closed higher after plunging
in the previous trading session, when a Next Magazine report
fueled concerns about the company’s operations and distribution.  The  retailer  rose 0.7 percent to HK$2.72 at the close in
Hong Kong, after declining as much as 5.9 percent during the
day. The stock fell 13 percent yesterday.  Operations are “normal, healthy and stable,” Hengdeli
said in a statement yesterday. Hengdeli didn’t comment directly
on the Next Magazine report and said it “has maintained good
partnerships with numerous worldwide renowned watch suppliers.”  “Hengdeli’s response to the suspicions is unlikely to
remove investors’ concerns,” said Macquarie analyst Linda
Huang. “However it is hard to obtain substantial proof about
some of the suspicions. We continue to have concerns about the
company’s wholesale business model due to its low margin
nature.”  Hengdeli lost its exclusive distribution licenses for
brands including Omega, Rado, Longines and Fendi in  China , Next
Magazine said, without saying where it got the information.  China Operations  “Hengdeli has no further clarification at this point,”
Kelly Fung, a media relations consultant at Porda Havas
International Finance Communications Group, representing the
company, said today.  Hengdeli has relied on China’s increasingly affluent
 consumers  to boost sales. It gets about 70 percent of it annual
revenue from mainland China, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The so-called clarification failed to allay investor
concerns,” Francis Lun, managing director of Lyncean Holdings
Ltd., said by phone. “First, you have the macro-economic
headwind, rents are rising and Chinese consumers are buying
overseas. Secondly, the company is expanding too fast.”  Nick Hayek, chief executive officer of Swatch, which owns
the Omega, Longines and Rado brands, forecast continued growth
in mainland China and said in a phone interview yesterday that
he’s “very happy” about his company’s arrangement with its
Chinese partner.  Shareholders  Swatch Group owns 9.1 percent of Hengdeli, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
whose brands include Fendi, holds 5.9 percent, the data show.  “We are shareholders and it’s going very well --- there is
no change,” Hayek said of Swatch’s relationship with Hengdeli.
“The development is very good. There is no irritation in our
collaboration.”  Hayek forecast industry growth of about 10 percent in
mainland China. “It could be more or it could be less,” he
said. “In the high end, they might have a little bit less
sales, but you can’t grow every year by 50 or 60 percent.”  An external spokesman for LVMH didn’t immediately return a
call and an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  