-- Lenovo Profit Rises 34% on Avoiding PC Slump, Smartphones
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-31T09:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/lenovo-profit-rises-34-on-avoiding-pc-slump-smartphones.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of personal computers, reported a 34
percent  jump  in third-quarter profit after increasing its market
share and boosting smartphone sales.  Net income  climbed to $204.9 million in the three months
ended Dec. 31, from $153.5 million a year earlier, the company
said in a statement yesterday. Excluding a $20 million one-time
gain, the figure was in line with analysts’  estimates . Sales
climbed 12 percent to $9.36 billion.  Lenovo’s PC shipments rose 8 percent in the period, the
only increase among the world’s  four biggest suppliers , as it
boosted North American consumer sales amid slowing global
demand. The  company  has also developed mobile devices including
smartphones and tablets that have helped it lure customers from
Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. in  China .  “Positive surprises came largely from the mobile Internet
and digital home unit,” said Jonathan Ng, a Singapore-based
analyst at CIMB-GK Pte, who rates Lenovo outperform. The company
continues to see “strong momentum” in these areas, he said.  Revenue from China, Lenovo’s biggest  market , rose 17
percent to $4.1 billion in the quarter and accounted for 43
percent of total sales. North America revenue climbed 8 percent
to $1.3 billion, or about 14 percent of its global tally.  Lenovo, which has its headquarters in Beijing and
Morrisville, North Carolina, fell 2.8 percent to close at
HK$8.07 in  Hong Kong . It has  climbed  15 percent this month,
surpassing the 4.7 percent gain for the city’s  Hang Seng Index .  Accounting Gain  Net income was boosted by the one-time gain, which was
related to the elimination of an accounting provision following
the completion of a takeover. That let Lenovo  surpass  the $184
million average of 12 analysts’ profit estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Excluding that gain, earnings were “pretty much in
line” with expectations, CIMB’s Ng said.  Lenovo Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  reiterated
that the company intends to boost pretax margins by 1 percentage
point over three years. In the three months ended Dec. 31,
Lenovo had a pretax profit margin of 2.6 percent.  “Our PC business is healthy and will continue to get
stronger,” Yang said on a conference call yesterday. “Beyond
the PC, we have built a strong foundation for the PC-plus
business, which is growing even faster.”  The company introduced touchscreen handsets in  Russia ,
 India ,  Indonesia ,  Vietnam  and the  Philippines  last year
following the debut of its first model in China in 2010. In
China, Lenovo ranked second in smartphone sales in the three
months ended Sept. 30, according to market researcher IDC.  Windows Phone  Lenovo is considering offering smartphones running
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone 8 to expand its range of
handsets beyond  Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  Android, Yang said in an interview
yesterday.  “We have a very good relationship with Microsoft,” Yang
said. “If the market and customers can accept Windows Phone, we
will provide the product to them.”  The PC-maker is assessing potential acquisition targets and
strategic alliances to boost its mobile business, including a
deal with BlackBerry, the company formerly known as  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM) , Chief Financial Officer Wong Wai Ming said in a
Bloomberg News interview on Jan. 24.  “We are looking at all opportunities -- RIM and many
others,” he said. Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry announced
the name change yesterday.  Earlier Purchases  Lenovo previously used  acquisitions  to boost sales,
including buying International Business Machines Corp.’s PC
division in 2005. This month, it completed a $147 million
purchase of CCE, a Brazilian maker of computers, mobile phones
and tablets.  Lenovo has a “healthy balance sheet,” which it will use
to look for opportunities for acquisitions to accelerate growth,
Wong said on the conference call yesterday. The company will
continue to invest in the mobile area, he said, without
supplying details.  Global PC sales fell 4.9 percent in the quarter through
December as users shifted to tablets and smartphones, according
to Gartner Inc. Lenovo was surpassed as the biggest PC maker in
the period by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  The Chinese company topped the
rankings for the first time in the preceding three months.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  