-- Tesco Drops Silvercrest Foods After Horse Meat Investigation
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-01-30T17:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/tesco-drops-supplier-silvercrest-foods-after-horse-meat-probe.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
supermarket chain, dropped frozen-burger supplier Silvercrest
Foods after the discovery of horse DNA in frozen beef burgers.  Silvercrest, a unit of ABP Food Group, used meat that
didn’t come from Tesco’s list of approved suppliers,  Tim Smith ,
the retailer’s technical director, said in an e-mailed statement
today. The meat wasn’t from the U.K. or Ireland, contrary to
instructions, he said, adding that Tesco will test the DNA of
meat products to avoid deviation from its standards.  Tesco won’t accept products from Silvercrest anymore as the
“breach of trust is simply too great,” Smith said.  Tesco Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  apologized to
customers on Jan. 16 after Ireland’s food safety authority found
horse DNA in the grocer’s frozen beef burgers. Other retailers
that sold the products were Aldi, Lidl, Iceland Foods Ltd. and
Dublin-based Dunnes Stores.  The losses for Tesco will be “a lot bigger” than 1
million pounds ($1.6 million), Smith told the U.K. Environment,
Food and Rural Affairs Committee, which today held a hearing
into the contamination of food products.  The investigation is still going on and “the impact of the
losses we have incurred and those that have been incurred by the
stores themselves are still being tabulated,” Smith told
Members of Parliament in  London .  DNA Testing  The new DNA testing program could cost the company
“anything between 1 and 2 million pounds a year,” he said.  Tesco’s commitment to DNA testing will “reassure customers
and draw a line under the incident,” Caroline Gulliver, an
analyst at Espirito Santo, said in a note to investors.  A Tesco spokesman declined to comment on who would replace
Silvercrest as a supplier. Irish Agriculture Minister Simon Coveney said Jan. 26 that raw material from  Poland  was the
source of horse DNA in the foods Silvercrest had been shipping.  “We have learned an important lesson from this incident
and we are determined to ensure that this never happens again,”
Paul Finnerty, ABP Food Group CEO, said in an e-mailed
statement, adding that they welcomed Tesco’s decision to
continue sourcing fresh beef from other ABP companies.  ABP has changed management at the Silvercrest facility,
which remains closed, and said that it aims to become an
“industry leader” in comprehensive DNA testing procedures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  