-- Eskom Asks BHP, Anglo to Cap Coal Costs to Limit Tariff Rise
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-01-31T14:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/eskom-asks-bhp-anglo-to-cap-costs-to-control-tariff-increase.html
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., which
supplies about 95 percent of South Africa’s power, is working on
an agreement to cap coal costs as the energy regulator examines
the utility’s request for above-inflation tariff increases.  “I had a very good meeting with our four large suppliers
who make up 70 percent of coal requirements” needed for
electricity generation, Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dames  said
by phone yesterday. “They have committed to work with us on
this and we’re hoping that this week we can take that further.”  The utility, which relies on coal for more than 80 percent
of generation, is seeking a 16 percent advance in average
electricity prices each year until 2018 to avoid a repeat of
energy shortages that halted mines in 2008. Inflation was 5.7
percent in December. The National Energy Regulator of South
Africa tomorrow concludes public hearings on the application and
will make a decision by the end of February.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  are Eskom’s biggest suppliers of the fuel.  The government considers coal a strategic mineral and
regulations will be passed to ensure  South Africa  has security
of supply, Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu said at a
conference yesterday. The government doesn’t want companies to
lose export contracts and hasn’t decided whether to impose
export levies on coal, she said.  Suppliers’ Commitment  An annual 16 percent increase would raise prices to 128
cents per kilowatt hour by 2017 from 61 cents now.  “A lot of work has to go in especially to get their
commitment and achieve 10 percent and then if we can do that
then surely we can do better than that,” Dames said of a
possible agreement with coal suppliers.  Eskom’s proposed tariff increases may hit state hospitals
and clinics hardest, Public Servants Association General Manager
Danny Adonis said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “Health departments are already experiencing problems with
paying their service providers,” Adonis said.  The higher power prices may have a negative effect on the
viability of many businesses, the South African Local Government
Association said in an e-mailed statement today.  The 16 percent tariff increase includes 3 percentage points
to support the cost of introducing independent renewable energy
producers through a build program of 3,725 megawatts, Dames
said.  Coal Plants  The government prevented Eskom from expanding from 2004 to
2008 as it sought to attract investments in the power industry.
The utility is now building what will be the world’s third-and
fourth-biggest coal-fired power plants, which will produce about
4,800 megawatts each, to halt shortages.  Work at Medupi in Limpopo province, the smaller of the two
coal-fired stations under construction, has been suspended for
two weeks after Eskom sent workers home after protests, the
company said Jan. 29. Construction at Medupi, the first unit of
which is due to start producing electricity at the end of the
year, stopped on Jan. 16.  “I’m very concerned and it’s really having a material
impact,” Dames said during a break from the tariff hearing held
in Midrand, north of Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  