-- Hess Wants to Keep Assets, Despite Shareholder Calls
-- B y   J e s s i c a   R e s n i c k - A u l t   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-01-30T21:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/hess-wants-to-keep-assets-despite-shareholder-calls.html
Hess Corp. (HES)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer John Hess said he wants to keep Bakken shale
and offshore  oil fields , despite calls from  Paul Singer ’s
Elliott Management Corp. and Relational Investors LLC for the
company to pursue asset sales.  Hess will respond soon to a statement from Elliott, its
 second-largest shareholder , that said the New York-based company
should streamline and bring in new board members, the CEO told
investors and analysts on an earnings conference call today.
Hess needs a balance of onshore and offshore assets and its
energy marketing and retail operations still “enhance” the
company, he said.  Elliott, owner of a 4 percent stake, announced yesterday it
was seeking to replace five board members to end a “chronic”
lack of focus at Hess. The activist investor called for Hess to
spin off its shale business, sell gasoline stations and the
energy marketing unit, and keep some international exploration
and production assets. Ralph Whitworth’s Relational, owner of a
2.7 percent stake, said in a letter it supports “significant”
board changes.  Retaining shale assets and offshore production as well as
exploration at a handful of promising offshore fields “is the
right strategy,” John Hess said today. The company’s global
assets “generate the cash needed to fund the unconventional
growth we have in the Bakken and the Utica.”  On their own, the Bakken and Utica shale assets “would not
be self-funding, they could not get access to the credit markets
and that’s a real issue,” Hess said. “This balanced approach
we definitely think is the right one.”  History Repeats  Hess plans to complete its shift to an exploration and
production company by the end of the year, the CEO said. The
company will shut its last refinery by the end of February and
is seeking a buyer for its storage business, it said on Jan. 28.
Hess can manage a pared-down portfolio, the CEO said.  “History repeats itself at Hess,” Elliott Management said
in an e-mailed response today. “It has no further restructuring
plans to announce. Shareholder nominees are needed to address
much larger problems and recoup the years of lost shareholder
value.”  The  investment company  seeks shareholder votes at the 2013
annual meeting to replace Hess’s head of production, Gregory P. Hill, on the board as well as former New Jersey Governor Thomas H. Keane, former Senator Samuel A. Nunn Jr., former Hertz Corp.
Chairman Frank A. Olson and former U.S. Treasury Secretary
Nicholas F. Brady.  ‘Sacred Cows’  Elliott’s slate includes Rodney F. Chase, former deputy CEO
of BP Plc; Karl Kurz, former chief operating officer at Anadarko
Petroleum Corp.; David McManus, former executive vice president
at Pioneer Natural Resources Co.; and  Mark Smith , chief
financial officer of Ultra Petroleum Corp. The fifth is  Harvey Golub , former chairman and CEO of American Express Co.  Chairman and CEO Hess said the company is “looking
carefully” at Elliott’s proposal.  “We look at everything to enhance long-term  shareholder
value ,” Hess said. “We have no sacred cows in the business or
in the board room.”  Relational, known for pushing changes and board seats at
Hewlett-Packard Co. and other companies, said it met with Hess’s
management on Dec. 3 and board representatives on Jan. 14.  Proxy Fight  A majority of Hess shareholders would support Elliott’s
nominees, Relational co-founder Whitworth said in a phone
interview today.  “They are qualified people and they want to serve,” said
Whitworth, who hasn’t talked to Elliott or other shareholders.
“It really shouldn’t be very controversial.”  Relational would be “disappointed” if Hess forced a proxy
fight on the board nominees, co-founder David Batchelder wrote
in a letter to John Hess today. Relational’s letter was first
reported by CNBC.  “Management’s efforts and the shareholders’ money are best
devoted to improving the operations in the Bakken, pursuing
asset sales, and structuring the company to maximize the
valuation of its assets,” he wrote.  Hess reported a $566 million profit for the fourth quarter
today, compared with a $131 million net loss for the same period
a year earlier, when it recorded costs to close a refinery on
St. Croix. Excluding one-time items, per-share profit was a
penny less than analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The shares fell 0.3 percent to $67.88 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jessica Resnick-Ault in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  