-- EU Domestic Passenger-Train Markets Would Be Opened by Draft Law
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-01-30T17:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/eu-domestic-passenger-train-markets-would-be-opened-by-draft-law.html
European Union regulators proposed
to deregulate domestic passenger-train markets across the EU in
the latest bid to improve services, setting up a potential fight
with national governments in the bloc.  The European Commission presented draft legislation that
would open domestic passenger railways in the 27-nation EU to
competition as of December 2019. The goal is to help trains win
market share from cars and airplanes.  The proposal would affect EU countries such as  France ,
 Poland , the Netherlands and  Belgium  whose markets are closed.
Member nations including  Germany , the U.K. and  Italy  have opened
their markets. The draft law would also establish EU-wide
vehicle authorizations and  safety certificates  and bolster the
role of track managers.  “This is quite radical,” EU Transportation Commissioner
Siim Kallas told reporters today in Brussels. “The package is a
good one.”  The commission is seeking to build on deregulation of the
freight-train market and international passenger-train services.
The bloc removed the remaining barriers to freight services in
2007 and deregulated the cross-border passenger market in 2010.  Domestic passenger-train services account for more than 94
percent of the EU passenger rail market, according to the
commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm. In 16 of the 25 EU
nations that have railways, an incumbent exists with a market
share of more than 90 percent, according to the commission.  Draft Legislation  The draft legislation needs the support of national
governments and the European Parliament in a process that can
take years.  In 2005-2007, during the previous EU deliberations on rail-
market deregulation, the Parliament pressed to remove barriers
to domestic services and then abandoned the effort in the face
of resistance by national governments. The assembly initially
sought to set a 2012 date for such a step and then proposed 2017
as a compromise that also failed.  In today’s package, the  European Railway Agency  would
become a “one-stop shop” for issuing approvals to place
vehicles on the market and safety certificates for operators,
according to the commission. Currently, national authorities
perform these tasks.  A centralized European approval system would cut the time
to market for new undertakings by 20 percent and reduce the cost
and duration of the procedure for authorizing rolling stock by
the same amount, said the commission, which projected overall
cost savings for companies of 500 million euros ($678 million)
by 2025.  Track Managers  To help ensure that track managers operate efficiently, the
draft legislation would give them control of “all the functions
at the heart of the rail network, including infrastructure
investment planning, day-to-day operations and maintenance, as
well as timetabling,” said the commission.  It also said track managers must have operational and
financial independence from companies that run the trains.  “This is essential to remove potential conflicts of
interest and give all companies access to tracks in a non-
discriminatory way,” the commission said.  Rail undertakings independent of track managers would have
immediate access to the domestic passenger market in 2019,
according to the commission. It said a vertically integrated
entity or “holding structure” would be acceptable as long as
“strict Chinese walls” were in place to ensure legal,
financial and operational separation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  