-- EU Lawmakers May Urge Veto of Swaps Rules on Business Concerns
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-30T17:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/eu-lawmakers-may-urge-veto-of-swaps-rules-on-business-concerns.html
European Union lawmakers may oppose
draft rules for over-the-counter derivatives amid concerns that
the measures would be too onerous for businesses and don’t
respect existing EU law.  The European Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee may vote against the measures at a meeting on Feb. 4,
according to documents on the assembly’s  website .  Lawmakers are concerned the rules may force non-financial
companies to begin passing their trades through clearinghouses
even when the values of such transactions are “ considerably
below systemic relevance .”  Global regulators are seeking to toughen rules for the
 $639 trillion market  for OTC derivatives, which became a target
for oversight after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., and the rescue of  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest traders in credit default swaps.  The EU rules under review may also make it harder for
businesses to work with clearinghouses, by restricting
companies’ ability to use bank guarantees as collateral to back
up their trades, according to the Parliament documents.  The so-called technical measures were drafted by the
European Commission and flesh out legislation from 2012 aimed at
regulating the OTC derivatives market.  Should the committee oppose the rules, the dossier would
then be sent to the full assembly for further review. If it
rejects the draft standards, they couldn’t enter into force.  The commission, with input from the European Securities and
Markets Authority, would then need to re-adopt a version of the
measures for review by lawmakers and national governments.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Deutsche
Boerse AG’s Eurex Clearing operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for the Brussels-based
commission, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  