-- Euro-Area Economic Confidence Rises More Than Forecast
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-01-30T11:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/euro-area-economic-confidence-rises-more-than-estimated.html
Economic confidence  in the euro area
rose more than economists forecast in January, adding to signs
that the 17-nation currency bloc may be emerging from a
recession.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment rose to 89.2
from a revised 87.8 in December, the European Commission in
Brussels said today. That’s the highest since June. Economists
had forecast an increase to 88.2, according to the median of 30
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  The euro strengthened above $1.35 for the first time since
2011 before today’s report and traded at $1.3556 at 12:14 p.m.
in Brussels, up 0.5 percent on the day. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said last week economic activity is
“stabilizing at a very low level” and  Germany ’s Bundesbank
expects  Europe ’s largest economy to rebound in the first quarter
from a contraction at the end of 2012.  “The series of positive surprises on  euro-zone  survey
releases in January support our growth scenario,” Evelyn Herrmann, European economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London , wrote
in an e-mailed note. While leading indicators “are still at
levels in line with contraction,” she wrote, “their upward
trend supports our forecast of a slowdown in the pace of
contraction” from 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter to 0.1
percent in the first three months of this year.  Spain’s Recession  The euro-area economy  shrank  0.1 percent in the third
quarter after a 0.2 percent contraction in the three previous
months. Gross domestic product probably fell another 0.4 percent
from October to December and will stagnate in the first quarter
of 2013, according to another Bloomberg survey. The European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg is due to publish GDP
data for the fourth quarter on Feb. 14.  Spain ’s recession deepened more than economists forecast in
the fourth quarter as the government’s struggle to rein in the
euro region’s second-largest budget deficit weighed on domestic
demand. Gross domestic product fell 0.7 percent in the three
months through December, more than the 0.6 percent contraction
the Bank of Spain predicted on Jan. 23.  A gauge of sentiment among European manufacturers improved
to minus 13.9 from minus 14.2 in December, today’s report
showed. An indicator of services confidence rose to minus 8.8
from minus 9.8, while consumer sentiment climbed to minus 23.9.  While policy makers are cautious to call an end to the
three-year-old debt crisis in the euro area, they are starting
to become more optimistic.  Software Maker  “The fire is under control,” German Deputy Finance
Minister Steffen Kampeter told the  BBC  in a  radio interview 
broadcast yesterday. “But we have to take care it will not
start again.”  SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of business-management software,
on Jan. 23 forecast at least a 12 percent gain in full-year
earnings as the company adds Internet-based programs to attract
users.  Elsewhere in Europe, U.K. mortgage approvals rose more than
economists forecast in December in a sign the Bank of England’s
credit-boosting program is having an impact on home loans.  In  Asia , Chinese incomes rose faster in the countryside
than in cities for a third straight year in 2012 as migrant
workers boosted their pay and the government strengthened the
social safety net. The Thai economy expanded 5.7 percent last
year, driven by recovery of manufacturing sector after floods,
strong domestic consumption and exports.  U.S. Growth  The  U.S. economy  probably grew in the fourth quarter at the
weakest pace in almost two years as a pickup in spending drained
inventories and exports slumped, economists said before a report
today.  Europe’s financial markets have calmed and stocks have
rallied since Draghi in July announced the ECB’s bond-purchase
plan. While this has reduced the probability of a breakup of the
common currency, the economic environment still remains
“challenging,” ECB Executive Board member Peter Praet said
yesterday.  The Frankfurt-based central bank estimates the euro-area
economy will shrink 0.3 percent this year before finding its way
back to a full-year growth rate of 1.2 percent in 2014. The
 unemployment rate  rose to a  record 11.8 percent  in November and
economists forecast another increase to 11.9 percent in
December, according to the median of 34 estimates in another
Bloomberg News Survey.  ‘Confidence Trick’  “Thanks to Mario Draghi’s confidence trick, the euro zone
has recently gone through a period of calm,”  Carsten Brzeski ,
senior economist at ING Group in Brussels, wrote in a note.
“Financial markets are cheerful, private capital is returning
to euro-zone peripheral countries and structural reforms seem to
bear some fruits. This is what Mario Draghi called ‘positive
contagion.’”  Yet today’s confidence report shows that this contagion
hasn’t yet reached the real economy, Brzeski wrote. “It is a
painful reminder that stabilization does not automatically lead
to a recovery,” he wrote. “The road towards restoring growth
in the euro zone still seems to be a long one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  