-- Ex-N.Y. Lawmaker Huntley Admits to Mail-Fraud Conspiracy
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-30T21:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/ex-n-y-lawmaker-admits-to-mail-fraud-conspiracy-correct-.html
Former  New York  state Senator
Shirley Huntley, who was accused of corruption involving a
nonprofit group she founded, pleaded guilty to conspiring to
commit mail fraud.  Huntley, a Democrat from Queens, entered her plea today
before U.S. District Judge  Jack B. Weinstein  in Brooklyn,
admitting that she embezzled $87,700 from the Parents
Information Network, which purportedly helped educate parents
about the New York public school system.  Huntley, who served in the state Senate from 2007 to
December 2012, said during a hearing today that she and an
associate used some of the group’s money, which largely came
from the state, “for personal shopping.”  “I’m guilty,” she said while seated at a long table in
the courtroom with her defense attorney, the judge and federal
prosecutors.  She faces a sentence of as long as two years in prison
under her plea deal with the government. She also agreed to pay
$87,700 to the New York State Department of Education and $1,000
to the  Port Authority  of New York and  New Jersey  as restitution
for an unrelated bribery scheme involving a cargo-handling
business at  John F. Kennedy International Airport , according to
prosecutors.  ‘Unwavering Commitment’  “This guilty plea underscores our unwavering commitment to
hold responsible those who abuse their authority and pursue
their own financial interests instead of the public interest,”
Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said in a statement.  In a separate case in New York state court in suburban
Nassau County, Huntley was indicted for conspiracy, tampering
with evidence and falsifying business records. She was accused
of using another nonprofit, Parent Workshop Inc., to divert
about $30,000 in public money to an aide and to her niece.  Huntley vowed to fight those charges, according to a
statement from her office in August. Huntley and her attorney,
Sally Butler, declined to comment after today’s hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Huntley, 1:13-cr-00054, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  