-- Hexbug Wants to Hook Chinese Robo Fish at Trade Agency
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-01-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/hexbug-wants-to-hook-chinese-robo-fish-at-trade-agency.html
At the  Dallas  Toy Fair in October
2011, the makers of  Hexbug  robotic toys spotted a swimming
mechanized fish they say incorporates their company’s research
on making waterproof battery-operated gadgets.  Innovation First International Inc.  sued, claiming a former
employee stole its trade secrets and went to work for the fish’s
Chinese manufacturer. A federal judge told the company to take
its complaint to China, where much of the evidence and most
principal witnesses are located.  “For fairly obvious reasons, we’re not excited about going
to China to sue a Chinese engineer,” Vince Mouer, general
counsel for Greenville, Texas-based Innovation First, whose
Hexbug Nano Hive Habitat Set was named specialty toy of the year
by the Toy Industry Association in 2011 and 2012, said in an
interview.  Innovation First instead decided if it couldn’t stop the
products from being made, it would try to stop them from being
sold. The company took its complaint to the U.S. International
Trade Commission in Washington which, because it can block
imports of products that violate U.S. intellectual-property
rights, is becoming an attractive forum for companies alleging
trade-secret theft overseas.  “The ability to prevail on cases like that in  China  is
often limited,” said Jim Altman, an intellectual property
lawyer at Foster, Murphy, Altman & Nickel in Washington, who
often represents foreign companies in ITC cases. “The advantage
of the ITC is you don’t have to fight in China if your concern
is the U.S. market.”  Fish Idea  Innovation First filed its case Jan. 4, naming  CVS Caremark
Inc. (CVS) ’s CVS Pharmacy unit as a retailer selling  Zuru Robo Fish .
Zuru Inc., the Guangzhou-based manufacturer, denied stealing
trade secrets and said the engineer’s idea for the fish predated
his time at Innovation First. The ITC hasn’t decided whether to
investigate.  Mouer said Zuru wasn’t named in the ITC complaint for
strategic reasons he declined to explain.  Carolyn Castel , a
spokeswoman for CVS, didn’t return messages seeking comment.  The agency is looking into a complaint filed Dec. 20 by
Itasca, Illinois-based Fellowes Inc., which makes paper
shredders. Fellowes says a former partner in China stole its
equipment and know-how to make and sell competing products,
including about 70,000 Fellowes shredders that were in the
factory when the joint venture collapsed.  Fellowes said it needs to keep the competing products out
of the country “to ensure its own survival as a U.S. company
and to protect the threatened integrity of the domestic shredder
market.”  Trade Secrets  The ITC’s authority to regulate imports has made it a
battleground in the global smartphone war as companies including
Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. try to choke off sales of
competing products they say violate U.S. patents.  The prospect of mobilizing the trade agency in trade-secret
disputes dates to February 2010, when the ITC for the first time
banned imports on that basis.  In that case, Amsted Industries Inc. won an order blocking
imports of cast-steel railway wheels manufactured using secrets
stolen from a Chinese licensee. The ITC’s action was upheld on
appeal in October 2011.  Six complaints, including those by Innovation First and
Fellowes, have followed on Amsted’s precedent. Five are pending.
Taiwan’s  Richtek Technology Corp. (6286) ’s complaint concerning power
management circuits led to settlements or agreements to stop
imports, although one company was later found in violation of
that agreement and fined $620,000.  “It goes back to the fundamental issues for the ITC,”
said  Greg Vogler  of McAndrews Held & Malloy in  Chicago , who
represented Amsted. “Its purpose is to prevent unfair trade
practices by foreign entities who are trying to get around U.S.
laws.”  Convenient Forum  Innovation First initially persuaded a  Texas  state judge to
temporarily halt sales of Zuru Robo Fish at the Dallas Toy Fair.
The case was then transferred to federal court, where District
Judge Jane Boyle in Dallas ruled China was the more convenient
forum.  “Texas residents do not have a high interest in resolving
a dispute based on  trade secrets  that were allegedly
misappropriated in China,” the judge ruled April 10. Innovation
First is appealing. Arguments are scheduled for Feb. 5 in  New
Orleans .  Innovation First, which also makes robotics for educational
competitions and computer server racks, has about 175 employees
worldwide, most in Texas. It has Chinese engineers who refine
the American designs to deal with the manufacturing process,
said Mouer, the company lawyer.  Robotic Bugs  Hexbug  is a line of robotic inchworms, scarabs and spiders
that move realistically and sell for less than $20 each. The
company plans to introduce Hexbug fish later this year.  Zuru sells its fish for about $15. Zuru President Nick
Mowbray, who started the toy company with his brother in  New
Zealand  eight years ago, said the engineer worked on the
technology in his home for 13 years and left Innovation First
after being rebuffed three times over two years in efforts to
build a robotic fish.  “They realize they made the wrong move by not licensing
this technology,” Mowbray said. “They can’t make it work, so
put out press releases saying that we copied them.”  The ITC isn’t limited to allegations of theft in China,
although the Asian nation is the focus of the cases filed thus
far. In a May 2011  report , the commission estimated theft of
trade secrets in China led to $1.1 billion in U.S. economic
losses.  “There have been some successes, but often it may not be a
big enough deal to fight in China,” Altman said. “It’s like
anyplace, there are good actors and bad actors -- that’s not
unique to China. What’s different is they are still developing
the rule of law and commercial codes of conduct.”  The trade secrets cases involve companies not as big or as
well-known as Apple and Samsung.  Family-owned SI Group Inc. of Schenectady,  New York , filed
a case about rubber resins used in tire manufacturing, and
closely held Twin-Star International Inc. of  Delray Beach ,
 Florida , complained about electric fireplaces.  “To these companies, the products are their lifeline,”
Vogler said. “They have to fight and have to fight tooth and
nail. The ITC is the forum they need to minimize their costs and
seek justice in a short time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  