-- Mexico’s Sugar Output Seen Topping Forecast as Yields Improve
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-01-30T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/mexico-s-sugar-output-seen-topping-forecast-as-yields-improve.html
Sugar output in  Mexico , the biggest
supplier of imported sweetener to the U.S., “will probably be
higher” than estimated last month as favorable weather improves
yields, according to the head of a mill-owners group.  Production in the year that began Oct. 1 may top a December
forecast by 6.9 percent, totaling as much as 6.2 million metric
tons, Juan Cortina Gallardo, the president of the Sugar and
Alcohol Chamber of Commerce, said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. Beneficial rains for crops, along with increased
replantings and enhanced plant varieties, lifted productivity by
10 percent to 15 percent, he said.  The government in December predicted output at 5.8 million
tons, up from 5.1 million tons a year earlier. Cortina said the
final figure may be 300,000 to 400,000 tons higher than last
month’s estimate.  Mexico, the world’s sixth-largest producer, sends most of
its exported sugar to the U.S. under a free-trade agreement.
This year, exporters have sold about 1.3 million tons to
American buyers, compared with 1.1 million a year earlier,
Cortina said. With the U.S. facing the largest surplus in more
than a decade, Mexican mills may have to boost shipments to
other markets, he said.  The government will make a new production estimate in the
next two to three weeks, he said. In the  first 16 weeks  of the
season to Jan. 19, production was 1.83 million tons, compared
with an average of 1.42 million in the past five seasons,
according to data from Conadesuca, an industry group.  Over the last five years, Mexican consumption has fallen to
about 4.3 million tons from 5.3 million, in part because of
increased use of high-fructose corn syrup as a sweetener,
creating the surplus that has pushed domestic prices below
production costs for many growers, Cortina said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  