-- Extreme Morning Sickness Linked to Pregnancy Risks, Study Finds
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-01-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/extreme-morning-sickness-linked-to-pregnancy-risks-study-finds.html
Pregnant women who experience
extreme morning sickness in the second trimester are at much
higher risk of developing conditions such as dangerously high
 blood pressure , according to a Swedish study.  Pregnancies with hyperemesis gravidarum in the second
trimester were associated with a doubled risk of pre-eclampsia,
compared with those without the condition, according to a  review 
of the Swedish Medical Birth Register between 1997 and 2009. The
risk of premature separation of the placenta was tripled and
there was a 39 percent higher risk of low birth weight,
according to the study, published today in the  British Journal
of Obstetrics and Gynecology .  The 31-year-old Duchess of Cambridge, the former  Kate
Middleton , was admitted to London’s King Edward VII Hospital
with hyperemesis gravidarum, her office said Dec. 3. That was
before the end of the first trimester, the British Broadcasting
Corp. has reported. Pregnancy triggers such severe nausea in as
many as 3 percent of women, usually requiring hospitalization to
receive intravenous fluid.  “Pregnancies with hyperemesis gravidarum in the second
trimester demand an increased alertness and supervision for the
development of adverse outcomes,” the authors said in the
published paper.  No strong associations were found between the condition and
stillbirth risks, they said.  Further study is required to determine whether preventative
treatment should be considered, the authors said. Previous
studies have shown aspirin may reduce the risk of pre-eclampsia.  The safest and most reliable treatment for morning sickness
is Diclectin, made by Blainville, Canada-based Duchesnay Inc.,
according to Gideon Koren, a pediatric pharmacologist at the
Hospital for Sick Children, who has been studying the safety of
drugs in pregnancy for decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  