-- Fairholme Closes Funds to New Investors After Rebound
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-01-30T20:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/fairholme-closes-funds-to-new-investors-after-rebound.html
Bruce Berkowitz  is closing the gate
to his top-performing  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX)  after it posted its best
performance in a decade last year.  The $7 billion Fairholme Fund will suspend sales of shares
to new investors effective Feb. 28, according to a  filing 
yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The
fund outperformed 99 percent of its peers last year by producing
a 36 percent  gain , more than double the 16 percent return for
the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Berkowitz was named  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) ’s U.S. stock manager
of the decade in January 2010, prompting investor deposits that
boosted assets in the Fairholme Fund to $17 billion by the start
of 2011. As the fund’s largest  holdings  floundered that year and
investors cashed out, the manager was forced to sell stocks to
meet redemptions. Berkowitz may be seeking to avoid a replay
after his fund beat the benchmark  S&P 500  in 2012 by the widest
margin since 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “My reading is that they are afraid hot money will come in
and dilute performance,” said Bruce Siegel, general counsel at
First Long Island Investors LLC, a Jericho, New York-based
wealth-management firm that has been invested with Fairholme
since 2008. “They are looking out for the interests of current
shareholders.”  Berkowitz, the managing member of Miami-based Fairholme
Capital Management LLC, didn’t immediately return a telephone
call seeking comment.  Equity Deposits  The firm is also closing the  Fairholme Focused Income Fund (FOCIX) 
and  Fairholme Allocation Fund (FAAFX)  to new investors, according to
yesterday’s filing. Existing investors will be able to continue
putting money into all three funds, the notice said.  Stock mutual funds in the U.S. gathered $9.3 billion in the
week ended Jan. 16, after attracting $14.8 billion in net new
money during the prior week, the most since at least 2007,
according to the  Investment Company Institute  in Washington,
D.C.  Investors had been avoiding domestic stock funds since the
2008 financial crisis, opting instead for the perceived safety
of bonds. This trend continued last year, with domestic stock
funds reporting net redemptions of $99.6 billion through
November, according to Morningstar, even though the benchmark
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index returned 15 percent during the
period, including dividends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  