-- Fernandez Angers Investors While Ducking Argentine Austerity
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2013-01-30T13:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/fernandez-infuriates-investors-while-ducking-argentine-austerity.html
When outside investors like Hans Humes look at  Argentina , they see a country that has missed its
moment.  Humes, president of Greylock Capital Management in  New York 
which manages $600 million of emerging market debt, says
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s currency controls and
vilification of the international financial community are
robbing the country of its chance for a breakthrough, following
a record $95 billion debt default in 2001.  “The economic and political crisis in Argentina is totally
self-inflicted by Cristina and building off of Nestor,” Humes
said in a Jan. 16 phone interview, referring to Fernandez’s late
husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner . “I don’t think she
has the facility to interact normally with the international
community to get things back on track.”  The  International Monetary Fund  meets in two days to
consider censuring Argentina for failing to honestly report an
inflation rate that private economists estimate at 26 percent.
Between soaring prices and the region’s worst performing
currency, bond investors demand the highest return among major
 emerging markets  to own Argentine debt. The country’s notes
yield 1,079 basis points, or 10.79 percentage points, more than
U.S. Treasuries, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG
index.  Fernandez’s use of central bank  reserves  to pay debt and
finance spending, her 2008 confiscation of $24 billion in
private pension funds and last year’s expropriation of energy
company  YPF SA (YPFD) , have caused foreign investment to lag behind the
rest of the region.  ‘Unpredictable’  “The country continues to shoot itself in the foot,” Jim Craige, who helps manage more than $54 billion of emerging-
market debt at Stone Harbor Investment Partners LP in New York,
said in a Jan. 25 telephone interview. “Politics is what drives
everything in Argentina, it’s got a better balance sheet than a
lot of fully developed countries with double A ratings. But it’s
Argentina, it’s unpredictable.”  To domestic observers like former Economy Minister Roberto Lavagna, the foreign critics see a crisis where none exists. He
says they miss the reality that growth is likely to rebound this
year based on high commodity prices and a potential record
harvest and debt that, in relation to the size of its economy,
is half the level of the U.S.’s and a third less than  Brazil ’s.  Crisis Denied  “The image of Argentina abroad is worse than the reality,
it’s full of preconceptions,” Lavagna said in Dec. 13 interview
in  Buenos Aires . “When we look at the cold numbers, there’s no
crisis, there’s a progressive process of degradation.”  Surging commodity prices and bumper harvests helped
Fernandez, 59, oversee average annual growth of 6.5 percent,
double that of larger Latin American neighbors Brazil and
 Mexico , during her first four-year term ended in December 2011.
Soybeans, the country’s main export, surged 34 percent since she
took office to a record $17.71 per bushel on Sept. 4.  Last year, expansion slowed to 2.1 percent, according to
the median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, as
drought hit the soybean crop, demand in Brazil, the country’s
biggest trade partner, shrank and import limits created supply
bottlenecks at factories.  Industrial output  fell 1.2 percent,
the first annual decline since 2002.  “When you read the news you think this is a country in
crisis that’s on the brink of collapse,”  Walter Molano , head of
research for BCP Securities in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in a
Dec. 17 telephone interview. “I see a healthy country,
progressing, with low levels of debt, with strong consumption
growth. The economy slowing a bit is good, these are not abrupt
changes that will sink the country into crisis.”  Debt Ratio  Argentine presidential spokesman Alfredo Scoccimarro didn’t
immediately respond to phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment
on Fernandez’s policies and investor criticism.  Argentina’s debt equals 45 percent of its economy, compared
with 102 percent in the U.S. and 65 percent in Brazil, according
to the  International Monetary Fund .  Argentina attracted $5.4 billion in foreign direct
investment in the first six months of 2012, compared with a
$12.3 billion inflow to  Chile , whose $268 billion economy is
half Argentina’s, according to the  United Nations .  The country’s benchmark Merval stock index has returned 6.9
percent in the past 12 months, ranking 58 among 94 world indexes
tracked by Bloomberg.  Fernandez scorns critics, saying she skirted the fallout of
the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008 and the
 European debt crisis  through increased spending and stimulating
consumption through wage increases that raised purchasing power.  ‘Right Path’  “We’re moving forward against wind and tide, the peddlers
of hate, disillusion and against the prophets of failure,”
Fernandez said in a Dec. 26 speech. “We’re going to keep moving
forward in the conviction that we’re on the right path.”  Locked in a legal battle with owners of defaulted bonds and
facing possible expulsion from the IMF for under-reporting
inflation, Argentina hasn’t tapped global credit markets since
its default more than a decade ago.  The Washington-based IMF, which questions the accuracy of
data that puts 2012 inflation at 10.8 percent, is due to decide
on Feb. 1 whether to censure the country. That would be
unprecedented in the institution’s 69-year history. Argentina is
the only member of the Group of 20 nations that is refusing to
allow the IMF to conduct its annual mandatory review of the
economy.  The cost to protect Argentina against default surged to the
highest in the world in October after a U.S. court upheld a
judge’s ruling that barred Fernandez from making payments on
Argentina’s performing bonds unless she pays $1.3 billion on
defaulted debt at the same time. An appeals court will hear the
case Feb. 27.  ‘Political Decision’  The probability of Argentina suspending payments over the
next 12 months is now 47 percent, according to swaps trading, on
speculation Fernandez would default on bonds issued in 2005 and
2010 restructurings rather than settle with investors she calls
“vultures.’  With $42.7 billion of central bank reserves, a payments
halt wouldn’t result from an incapacity to pay, said Bret Rosen,
a New York-based Latin America strategist at  Standard Chartered .
Fernandez has used more than $20 billion of reserves to pay
foreign debt since she began to tap reserves in early 2010.  ‘‘Any technical default would be a political decision,”
Rosen said in a Jan. 17 interview in Buenos Aires.  While bigger corn and soybean harvests, higher commodity
prices and rebounding demand in Brazil will fuel faster growth
this year, Argentina won’t achieve its full agricultural and
energy-producing potential without access to foreign finance,
said BCP’s Molano. Argentina is the world’s third-largest
soybean producer and has the world’s third-biggest untapped
reserves of shale oil and gas.  ‘No Opposition’  “It would be very useful to have a better relationship
with the market,” Molano said. “But instead of giving in, she
tends to double down. She’s a very smart and capable person, and
has no opposition.”  Fernandez swept to re-election with 54 percent of votes in
October 2011. With no apparent successor, supporters including
Planning Minister Julio de Vido are lobbying for a change to the
constitution to enable her to seek a third term in 2015.  “The president is a clear alternative to continue with
this process of transformation,” De Vido said in a Nov. 23
interview with C5N television channel.  A change in the constitution is unlikely, given a decline
in Fernandez’s popularity and growing protests over rising
prices and widespread crime, said Fabian Perechodnik, an analyst
at political consulting group Poliarquia Consultores.  Exchange controls that prohibit most purchases of dollars,
the traditional currency for savings and real estate
transactions, have also alienated former supporters.  Street Protests  “There’s no social climate to seek a reform,” Perechodnik
said in a Dec. 7 interview in Buenos Aires.  On Nov. 8, about 2 million Argentines packed streets and
squares across the country, banging pots and waving banners in
the biggest anti-government demonstrations since 1973, when
former President Juan Domingo Peron returned from exile,
according to  Jorge Giacobbe , a political analyst at Jorge
Giacobbe & Asociados polling company.  The peso, which depreciated 12.5 percent in 2012, may
weaken 18 percent this year, Interior Trade Secretary Guillermo Moreno said in a Jan 22 interview with Pagina12 newspaper.  Fernandez’s tightening of currency controls since her  re-
election has led to the development of an illegal market in
which the dollar costs about 50 percent more than the official
rate. Argentines expect prices to rise 30 percent over the next
12 months, according to a poll published by Buenos Aires-based
Torcuato Di Tella University on Jan. 16.  Supermarket Looting  Even lacking anti-inflation policies, excessive state
spending and disregard for international investors, Argentina
can count on abundant agricultural resources, which make up more
than half of exports, to escape a repetition of the economic
meltdown that followed the 2001 default, said former Economy
Minister Lavagna.  Lavagna, 70, took office in 2002, after supermarket looting
and rioting forced President Fernando de la Rua from office,
banks were shuttered to stem a run on deposits and a decade-old
fixed currency system was abandoned. That year, the peso
weakened as much as 70 percent and the economy contracted a
record 10.9 percent. Lavagna stepped down in 2005 after
overseeing a debt restructuring and leaving the economy with a
growth rate of 9 percent.  The current situation is far different from 2002, he said.  “There’s been a progressive process of deterioration in
the economy that doesn’t have the characteristics of a crisis
for one single factor: soybeans.” said Lavagna.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Buenos Aires at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  