-- Fiat Scraps Dividend After Forecasting European Slump
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-01-30T17:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/fiat-s-marchionne-says-europe-losses-narrowed-in-fourth-quarter.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian automaker that
controls Chrysler Group LLC, scrapped its 2012 dividend to
preserve cash after forecasting the slump in European auto
demand will continue this year.  Fiat, which would have posted a 1.04 billion-euro ($1.41
billion) loss in 2012 without Chrysler, expects sales unchanged
in  Europe  this year at about 1 million vehicles, the Turin-based
automaker said today. Deliveries last year in the region dropped
14 percent.  Fiat, which had  net industrial debt  at the end of 2012 of
6.55 billion euros, said today it may sell as much as 5 billion
euros in bonds by the end of 2014 to “optimize the management”
of debt. Europe’s auto market is forecast to slump for a sixth
straight year and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said yesterday the region’s
outlook deteriorated last quarter.  “In Europe, the situation won’t be drastically different
in 2013,” Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said today.
“We are working at the speed of light” to meet a target of
breaking even in the region by 2016 at the latest.  Fiat  dropped  23 cents, or 4.8 percent, to close at 4.46
euros in Milan today. The stock has gained 18 percent this year,
valuing the company at 5.57 billion euros.  Fourth-quarter trading profit, or earnings before interest,
taxes and one-time items, rose 29 percent to 987 million euros
That beat the 941 million-euro average  estimate  of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The Europe loss almost halved to 121
million euros.  U.S. Gains  Marchionne, who stuck to his target to increase 2013 profit
to as high as 4.5 billion euros, said he doesn’t expect further
deterioration in Fiat’s performance in its home region this
year. The CEO is also counting on U.S. sales to help offset the
slump in Europe, where Fiat lost 704 million euros last year.  “ North America ,  South America  and  Asia  are still saving
Fiat’s European operations,” said Andrea Sianesi, the associate
dean of the MIP business school at the Milan Polytechnic. “It’s
almost surprising they managed to reduce losses in the region.”  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler reported a 68 percent
jump in fourth-quarter net income to $378 million. Chrysler’s
U.S. sales have increased for 33 straight months and its market
share has risen three years in a row. Chrysler’s 2012 deliveries
climbed 21 percent to 1.65 million, which included a 20 percent
increase for Ram pickups. The Ram 1500 this month received the
North American Truck/Utility of the Year award.  Europe Plan  Fiat wants to fix its European business before finalizing a
planned merger with Chrysler, which the Italian company controls
through a 58.5 percent holding. The turnaround plan in Europe,
where auto demand is in the midst of a six-year contraction,
calls for 16 upscale cars, including an Alfa Romeo SUV, a small
Jeep and six models at the luxury Maserati division, to fill
under-used assembly lines in  Italy .  An event today to inaugurate a new Maserati factory near
Turin underscored the Italian carmaker’s upscale shift. The
factory produces the revamped Quattroporte four-door coupe and
will add the smaller Ghibli later this year. Fiat plans to spend
2 billion euros by 2014 to expand Maserati and Alfa Romeo into
global luxury marques.  Fiat’s isn’t alone in its struggles in Europe. Ford lost
$1.75 billion in the region in 2012 and surprised investors by
increasing its estimate on losses to about $2 billion this year.
Ford, which is shutting three plants in Europe, said the outlook
for the region deteriorated in the final three months of 2012.  Chrysler Stake  The Italian manufacturer plans to raise its holding in
Chrysler to 65 percent by  exercising options . Fiat and the
United Auto Workers retiree health-care trust that controls the
remaining shares in Chrysler are disputing the valuation amid
the trust’s steps to sell part of its Chrysler stake in an
initial public offering.  Fiat may try to buy VEBA’s holding in Chrysler before the
union fund seeks an IPO of the manufacturer, as the Italian
company has no interest in “diluting” control, Marchionne said
on Jan. 14. The carmaker has enough cash to acquire the stake,
while it may sell assets to keep debt under control, he said.  Marchionne said today he plans to acquire the rest of
Chrysler, “as soon as I can afford it,” adding that he doesn’t
have to complete the deal this year and that it’s “very
unlikely” Fiat will sell new shares to buy the stake.  “I just need the financial structure to do it,” he said.
“The faster we can do it, the better I’ll feel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  