-- Fitch Cuts Egypt Rating on Unrest as Bonds Drop Most Under Mursi
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-01-30T16:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/fitch-cuts-egypt-rating-on-unrest-as-bonds-drop-most-under-mursi.html
Fitch Ratings  downgraded  Egypt ’s
debt citing political violence and budget strains, as the
country’s bonds fell the most since President Mohamed Mursi was
elected in June.  Egypt’s “fiscal position has worsened” and “serious
divisions have opened within society, contributing to sporadic
outbursts of violence,” Fitch said today. It lowered the rating
by one step to B, five below investment grade.  Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in April 2020
extended losses after the announcement, pushing yields up 38
basis points, or 0.38 percentage point, to 6.28 percent at 5:40
p.m. in Cairo. That’s the largest advance since June 22, two
days before Mursi was declared winner of Egypt’s presidential
elections. The yield has soared 69 basis points this week, while
the cost of protecting Egyptian bonds against default has risen
39 basis points to 481 yesterday.  Mursi is battling to control unrest that has gained
momentum since Jan. 25, the second anniversary of the start of
the uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . At least 50 people have
been killed nationwide in street battles, and Mursi imposed
emergency rule including an overnight curfew in three provinces.  The latest wave of violence is undermining efforts to
restore political order and revive an economy growing at the
slowest pace in two decades.  ‘Political Risk’  “Clearly political risk is not declining,” said Abdul Kadir Hussain, who was the top Gulf Cooperation Council fund
manager in 2012 as chief executive officer at Mashreq Capital
DIFC Ltd.  The Egyptian pound has weakened 7.4 percent in the past
month, after reserves slumped about 60 percent since the end of
2010. The currency will depreciate another 6 percent this
quarter, according to a Bloomberg News survey of bankers. The
government is seeking a $4.8 billion loan from the  International
Monetary Fund  to shore up finances.  Fitch’s move may not have “huge significance” because
investors are “already wary of the political and economic risks
in Egypt” and are “focusing more on the political
developments,” said Mohamed Abu Basha, an economist at Cairo-
based investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  The country’s benchmark stock index, the  EGX 30 (EGX30) , rose from
a one-month low, gaining 1.5 percent, as reform leader  Mohamed
ElBaradei  called for a meeting between Mursi and the opposition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  