-- Fizzle, Not Sizzle, Sinks Arlington Club: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-01-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/fizzle-not-sizzle-sinks-arlington-club-ryan-sutton.html
There seems to be no end to the
abuses  New Yorkers  will suffer in the search for a good meal.
Why? I mean, it’s my job to eat at bad restaurants. Everyone
else can get up and leave.  These were my musings as I visited the crowded mess hall
that is Arlington Club, a steakhouse-slash-sushi spot on
 Manhattan ’s Upper East Side.  The first of three dining companions cut his losses early.
He entered, noted the 90-decibel screaming all around,
apologized and left.  Here’s what he missed:  A 35-minute wait for our reserved table, during which time
we were put off by the host and ignored by the bartender. Then
things went downhill.  The host didn’t apologize for the wait, but she did ask us
to close out our bar tab. I tried a little persuasion.  “Can you please transfer the check,” I tell the
bartender, balancing three drinks with two hands. No dice.  “My hands are kind of full, can I give you my card
later?”  “Sorry, I need a card.”  Wet Bar  The host walks us to our table as the cocktails splash over
me. She finally offers to help as I climb a staircase to the
cramped upstairs dining room. Welcome to Siberia, Ivan
Denisovich.  All right, things can go wrong on any given night even at
 New York ’s best restaurants. And when they do, good food and
wine usually smooth out rough edges.  Then there’s Arlington Club. Over three visits I endured
such a systemic failure of cooking and hospitality that I half-
expected  Ashton Kutcher  to throw a cream pie in my face and
shout: “Just kidding!”  Women dining at the bar wear fur coats in an effort to stay
warm as the front door lets in frigid air. This type of flaw
would be understandable at a mom-and-pop shop. But Arlington
Club is run by the people behind Lavo and Tao, two of the
country’s highest-grossing restaurant concepts. They can afford
heat.  In 2010, I gave Lavo’s New York location  half a star . The
Arlington Club is better, though not by much. So much for the
triumphant reboot of chef Laurent Tourondel, whose fare includes
macadamia coconut shrimp rolls ($17). The haute hat-tip to TGI
Friday’s doesn’t quite work.  Rubber Shrimp  Neither do the sushi rolls, tasting fresh out of the
supermarket refrigerator aisle. Truffled Kobe beef over rice
betrays neither Kobe nor truffle flavor; it’s luxurious in price
only ($17). Rubbery rock shrimp maki suggest something made long
ago and far away.  Arlington Club hopes to get you in and out fast. So better
ask for raw bar items as a separate course. Otherwise the
kitchen will send out your plump oysters ($18 for a half-dozen)
and fatty bluefin toro ($28) with all your hot appetizers,
crowding the table and leaving you to strategize what to eat at
prime temperature.  Lobster bisque gets chilly quickly, which hardly matters,
since the soup, sugary as creamed maple syrup, contains a
scientifically insignificant amount of shellfish flavor.  Rubber Ball  Tarragon in the crabcakes ($26) completely suppresses the
flavor of crab. Shrimp cocktail ($15), the Ur steakhouse side
dish, is like a ball of rubber bands cut into crescent slices.
Free popovers, which may arrive burnt, are delivered with butter
so cold it’s un-spreadable.  Wine service is, well, nonexistent. When one of us asked
for a red to start the meal with, the waiter recommended a big-
bodied super-Tuscan ($17), the oenological equivalent of
benching pressing a Humvee without first warming up on Nautilus.  That red comes in the same glass as the one for a nimble,
nervy riesling ($12). Of course, you’re never offered a pre-
purchase taste; the vino is served already-poured, chain-
restaurant style. Consider yourself lucky it arrived at all, a
glass of $28 rose champagne, ordered shortly after our steaks
hit the table, didn’t come until I was almost finished eating.  And as for the steak, Tourondel offers the usual gamut of
beef. All the cuts are underseasoned. The ribeye for one ($62)
and cote de boeuf for two ($125), as well as the strip steak
($52) are all cooked to order, but lack the musk and mineral
tang of dry aging that keep us going back to Minetta and The
Dutch. Only the cheapest steak, the $34 skirt cut, packs a beefy
punch.  Oil Slick  Then you try braised Wagyu short ribs, big on price ($38)
and short on flavor, leaving your hands and innards coated with
enough oil to light a lantern.  Smarter diners will remember what made Tourondel famous at
the long-closed Cello: Fish.  Red snapper ($36), while arriving cold, is brilliant,
pungent with scallions. Black bass ($34), steamed en papillote,
is a clever conduit for coconut milk and cilantro. And Dover
sole ($59) is pure brown-butter bliss.  Sure you could get a decent warm sticky date pudding for
dessert, or a scoop of coconut sorbet that melts before you can
finish it. But really, you’re better off following the path of
my first guest and leaving. You don’t have to be here. I do.  Rating: 1/2 *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Often $150 or more per person.  Sound Level: Over 90 decibels in the bar.  Date Place: Would you keep your date waiting 35 minutes?  Special Feature: Noise is a welcome distraction from the
food.  Inside Tip: Stick with oysters, Caesar salad, Dover sole.  Back on My Own Dime: No.  Arlington Club is at 1032 Lexington Avenue. Information:
+1-212-249-5700.  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own. Follow him on Tumblr at
www.thepricehike.com or www.thebaddeal.com)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech and  Greg
Evans  on TV.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 