-- Fleetwood Mac’s ‘Rumours’ Spills Secrets of Love, Chaos
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-02-02T21:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/fleetwood-mac-s-rumours-spills-secrets-of-love-chaos.html
Fleetwood Mac’s nightly recording
sessions in a cramped, windowless studio were fueled by booze
and cocaine. The band’s complex romances left every member
heartbroken. Shouting matches lasted longer than the songs.  Today, 35 years on, an anniversary box set of “Rumours”
shows how the musical cocktail of two women and three men was
shaken and stirred by their romantic splits. Newly released
material shows the tracks getting endlessly reworked and
improved as they squabbled.  It was a “crucifyingly difficult” process, drummer Mick
Fleetwood notes. He was going through a divorce, with his wife
dating his best friend. He never imagined the chaos would lead
to a 40-million-selling LP: the best of 1977, according to the
 Grammy  judges, and one of the finest efforts of the 1970s, maybe
even of all time.  The American couple in the band added a pop edge to British
blues. Californian Lindsey Buckingham had been inseparable from
his singer girlfriend Stevie Nicks for five years. When
Fleetwood asked him to join, Buckingham insisted she be included
too. Now they were all arguing, and the frustrated guitarist
started writing a bitter rant called “Strummer.”  On the box set, we hear how this evolved from a simple
acoustic demo into a Celtic rag and finally a sleek piece of
disco with hints of the Bee Gees, retitled “Second Hand News.”
There’s a percussive roll which, it now turns out, was made by
bashing an old  Naughahyde  chair near the mixing desk.  Romantic Links  Buckingham throws the opening words at his ex: “I know
there’s nothing to say, someone has taken my place.” (Nicks was
romantically linked to Don Henley of the Eagles, then Fleetwood
himself.)  Her own breakup lyric “Dreams” is a swift rejoinder:
“Now here you go again, you say you want your freedom.” The
song’s first mix, nowhere near so radio-friendly, puts her voice
starkly to the fore and buries its optimism.  This creative jousting inevitably leads to Buckingham
replying, bluntly inviting her to “Go Your Own Way” because he
was “Never Going Back Again.”  The band’s other couple, the McVies, were walking from the
wreckage of an eight-year marriage. They were on such bad terms
that they would only speak about music.  Christine McVie defiantly shows how she’s moved on with
“Don’t Stop” about her on-tour romance with the band’s
lighting director. “You Making Loving Fun” tells her husband
that her new flame is much better.  Tender Songbird  Coproducer Ken  Caillat  recalls how huge rows in the
Sausalito, California studio would be followed minutes later by
the composition of sweet harmonies. He deserves credit for
singling out the most tender ballad, “Songbird,” and taking it
somewhere else -- more precisely, to the  Zellerbach Auditorium ,
Berkeley, which had the right acoustic and a Steinway piano.  The younger Nicks had the tougher words, but McVie is
outstanding with her performance here: “And I love you, I love
you, I love you, like never before, like never before.”  When the LP came out, I was a very young punk bassist and
hated it, of course. This expensively produced, sentimental mush
was exactly the stuff we were rebelling against. Just a few
years on and I got it. “Songbird” now moves me every time. The
record’s soft rock has echoes in acts such as Sting, Heart,
Kelly Clarkson and Neko Case, to name just four.  The creative madness which had threatened to sink records
as varied as “Exile on Main Street,” “Pet Sounds” and
“Station to Station” again resulted in an act coming out with
its best. Miracles do happen. As the lyric has it, “thunder
only happens when it’s raining.”  The album is available on Warner as a remaster; a 3-CD
version including the original album, bonus tracks and live
material ($16); and a box with further outtakes, a DVD and a
vinyl LP ($86). Rating: ***** for the shorter versions; *** for
the large box because it’s too much for all but the most
dedicated fans.  Fleetwood Mac’s tour starts in April.  Information:  http://www.fleetwoodmac.com/splash   Caillat’s book “Making Rumours” is published by John Wiley
& Sons priced $25.95. To buy the book in North America, click
 here . Information:  http://www.makingrumours.com/   (</a>Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  Ryan
Sutton  on  New York  dining and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 