-- Fox Raises $400 Million for Movies Including ‘Avatar’ Sequel
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-30T20:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/fox-raises-400-million-for-movies-including-avatar-sequel.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox
raised $400 million for film production, including the next
“Avatar,” through former Dune Capital LLC executive Chip Seelig, two people with knowledge of the situation said.  Seelig’s fund will invest in most Fox-produced films over
the next five years, said the people, who requested anonymity
because details haven’t been made public. Investors in the fund
include Magnetar Capital LLC, an Evanston, Illinois-based asset
management company, one person said.  The accord ensures Fox has capital for moviemaking and
allows the studio to reduce its financial risk by taking in
investors. The company’s previous agreement with Dune Capital
expired at the end of 2012. As with the Dune agreement, some new
films will be excluded from the deal, including the “Ice Age”
animated movies, one of the people said.  Seelig didn’t respond to an e-mail request for comment.
 Chris Petrikin , a Fox spokesman, also declined to comment. The
publication Variety reported on the arrangement yesterday.  Films in development at Los Angeles-based Fox include “The
Secret Life of Walter Mitty,” based on the James Thurber short
story, and “A Good Day to Die Hard,” a picture that continues
the Bruce Willis action series.  Dune Capital, based in  New York , will continue to collect
revenue from earlier investments in Fox films, including the
original “Avatar,” the James Cameron picture that became the
highest-grossing film in history with $2.8 billion in worldwide
ticket sales, according to Box Office Mojo.  Film Costs  Major studios rely on outside financing to reduce risks on
larger-budget, summer films that routinely cost $150 million or
more. Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros. jointly produces many of
its films with Legendary Entertainment and  Village Roadshow Ltd. (VRL)   For the first “Avatar,” Fox shared the $300 million
production cost with Dune and London-based Ingenious Media
Holdings Plc. The film was projected to yield $1 billion in
profit for the participants, including revenue from home-video
and television sales, people familiar with the movie’s financial
performance said near the end of its theatrical run.  News Corp. gained 0.4 percent to $27.90 at 3:30 p.m. in New
York. As of yesterday, Class A shares of the New York-based
company had gained 8.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  