-- France to Suspend Bayer’s Acne Drug Diane 35 on Safety Risk
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-01-30T18:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/france-to-suspend-bayer-s-acne-drug-diane-35-on-safety-risk.html
French health authorities said they
plan to suspend sales of  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Diane 35 acne treatment,
which is often used as a birth-control pill, amid concern the
medicine increases the risk of blood clots.  A review of the treatment’s risk-benefit balance proved to
be “unfavorable,” Dominique Maraninchi, director general of
the  Agence Nationale de Securite du Medicament et des produits
de Sante , said today. The suspension will take “full effect”
in three months, he said.  Diane 35 “isn’t approved for use as a contraceptive,”
Maraninchi told reporters during a press conference in Saint-
Denis, outside of Paris.  Starting today, French doctors will no longer have the
right to prescribe the medicine, Maraninchi said. Pharmacists
will be allowed to sell the treatment in limited quantities to
women using it until they have the time to get a different
prescription, he said. About 315,000 women in France use Diane
35 or a generic version of the drug, according to the regulator.  “We are surprised by this action taken by the ANSM,”
Astrid Kranz, a Bayer spokeswoman, said in a statement. “We are
not aware of any new scientific evidence leading to a change in
the positive benefit-risk assessment of Diane 35.”  French authorities are probing Diane 35, after the medicine
was linked to four deaths from blood clots in the past 25 years,
the regulator, best known as ANSM, said this month.  ANSM has been moving quickly to avoid criticism such as
that caused by a scandal involving Les Laboratoires Servier’s
Mediator, a medicine pulled from the market after 33 years in
2009 over concerns it caused heart-valve damage and deaths.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  