-- Freescale Surges as Sales Forecast Tops Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-01-30T21:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/freescale-surges-after-sales-outlook-beats-analysts-predictions.html
Freescale Semiconductor Ltd. (FSL) , the
chipmaker mostly owned by a private-equity group that includes
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and TPG Capital, surged the most in more
than a year after its sales forecast beat estimates.  Freescale advanced 15 percent to $14.23 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain since August 2011. The stock has declined
11 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 12 percent
rise the Nasdaq Composite Index.  First-quarter revenue will be $945 million to $985 million
the, Austin Texas-based company said yesterday in a statement.
Analysts had  projected  sales of $931.1 million on average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Freescale is forecasting improving demand for chips that
are used in mobile phone systems, particularly in  China . The
company expects better orders from automakers for
microcontrollers, as they add more functionality to their
products, Chief Financial Officer Alan Campbell said yesterday
on a conference call.  The company had a net loss in the fourth quarter of $35
million, or 14 cents a share, compared with a loss of $6
million, or 2 cents, in the same period a year earlier. The
fourth-quarter loss excluding some items was 15 cents a share,
less than the average 17-cent loss projected by analysts.  Freescale’s earnings are weighed down by the burden of
paying debt taken on when it was first take private by the
private equity consortium.  Sales in the quarter were $957 million,  exceeding  the
average $940.4 million estimate.  Like  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , Freescale makes analog chips
that are used in everything from space hardware to household
electronics, making its sales an indicator of demand across the
economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  