-- Fridman’s Alfa, Cukurova Get Split Decision on Turkcell
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-30T16:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/fridman-s-alfa-cukurova-get-split-decision-on-turkcell.html
Cukurova Holding AS may be able to
recover a 13.7 percent stake in Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS
from Mikhail Fridman’s  Alfa Group  after a U.K. court ruling that
gave both companies room to declare victory.  Alfa Group acted legally when it decided to seize the stake
in  Turkey ’s biggest mobile-phone operator in a dispute over
$1.35 billion in unpaid debt, but Cukurova will be given an
opportunity to buy back the stake, the U.K. Privy Council in
London, a final appeal court for some British Commonwealth
countries, said in a summary of  its ruling  today.  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  of  Sweden , the biggest shareholder in
Turkcell with 38 percent, and Alfa’s investment arm Altimo have
battled Cukurova over control of Turkcell for almost a decade.
Both sides said the court ruled in their favor pending future
hearings to determine what remedies should be provided to
Cukurova, which has interests in oil, media and truck
manufacturing.  “Putting the pieces together, I think there is risk for
Alfa,” said Atinc Ozkan, an Istanbul-based analyst for Credit
Suisse Group AG who has an “underperform” rating on Turkcell.
“The verdict means Alfa will by no means take control of the
company.”  With today’s decision leaving the Turkcell ownership
situation unchanged, it is unlikely 2010 and 2011 dividends that
were blocked will be paid.  Shares Fall  Turkcell fell as much as 8 percent to 10.9 liras, the
lowest since Dec. 4 in Istanbul trading. The shares closed down
6.8 percent.  John Reynolds, a lawyer at White & Case LLP in  London  who
represents Cukurova, said the ruling means the company “should
have an opportunity to repay the debt, plus interest and costs,
and to recover the Turkcell shares” used as collateral.  “The court will now determine how much interest is payable
at what rate,” he said.  Cukurova’s may have to pay Altimo as much as $2.56 billion
including debt and interest based on an average interest rate of
10 percent over benchmarks, to recover its Turkcell stake,
Alexander Balakhnin, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
Moscow unit, said in an e-mailed note.  Should the Istanbul-based company find money to pay Altimo,
it may then have to come up with $932 million to pay TeliaSonera
over a 2011 decision by the  International Chamber of Commerce , a
Paris-based tribunal that resolves commercial disputes,
Balakhnin said. And with the ownership situation still split,
“it may take time before Turkcell returns to consistent
shareholder remuneration.”  Virgin Islands  The Privy Council, which was reviewing an appeal of a
British Virgin Islands court decision, ruled that Alfa didn’t
act in bad faith and had the right to appropriate the shares.  Evgeny Dumalkin, vice president of Altimo, Alfa’s
investment arm, said in a statement that he was “satisfied”
the ruling confirmed the company’s position. He said the
“unique nature of the case” led to the court granting Cukurova
relief from forfeiture.  “Let’s wait for specified court decision which will
determine conditions on that,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Cukurova signed a $3.3 billion agreement with Alfa in 2005
to finance paying government debts resulting from the collapse
of its Pamukbank business. Alfa bought 13.2 percent of  Turkcell (TCELL) 
for $1.6 billion from Cukurova and lent the Istanbul-based
company another $1.7 billion, taking what was effectively
another 13.7 percent of Turkcell as collateral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  