-- GDF Suez Wins Court Case to Raise French Consumer Gas Rates
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-01-30T18:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/gdf-suez-wins-court-ruling-to-raise-french-household-gas-rates.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ) ,  Europe ’s biggest
utility by market value, and competitors in  France  won
permission to raise household gas bills in a ruling that may end
a long-running dispute with the government over price caps.  State-mandated changes to prices in the past two years were
based on a “legal error” and didn’t allow distributors to
cover costs, the Conseil d’Etat, France’s highest court, said
today in three separate rulings.  “We are turning the page, ending a period of conflict,”
GDF Suez Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet said at a
press conference. Today’s decisions will allow the former
monopoly to collect 151 million euros ($205 million) from
consumers over an 18-month period starting in July, he said.  French judges have ruled in favor of gas suppliers in
several similar cases in recent months, allowing the energy
companies bigger increases in regulated prices than the
government previously decreed. Setting gas and power prices has
proved politically difficult for successive governments under
pressure from consumer groups to keep rates low.  The court today canceled three decisions on tariffs dating
from June 2011, June 2012 and October 2012, and gave the
government one month to set new rates. The fees were fixed
before Energy Minister Delphine Batho unveiled a new system for
calculating the rates in December.  Natural Gas  The rulings were “expected” and will cost French
households heated with  natural gas  23 euros and those using the
energy for cooking 1.50 euros, Batho said in a statement today.  Court challenges are the only way for gas companies to
obtain tariffs high enough to cover their costs of supply and
allow competition on the French market, according to Fabien Chone, who heads an umbrella group of gas distributors called
Anode, which competes with GDF Suez.  “Consumers are the real losers in all of this because
rectifying their bills will be expensive,” he said by
telephone.  Batho in December raised household gas prices by 2.4
percent from Jan. 1. That followed a court ruling in November
that a 2 percent increase on Oct. 1 wasn’t enough.  The government also put in place a new system for
calculating natural gas prices that the minister said would make
changes “automatic” on a monthly basis. It will take into
account new contract terms between GDF Suez and suppliers such
as Norway and  Russia  and allow a greater dependence on supply
linked to spot market prices.  GDF Suez said a previous court decision canceling a gas
price freeze for the fourth quarter of 2011 will allow it to
collect 214 million euros from consumers starting this month for
18 months.  France’s high court “is quite an alert guardian,”
Mestrallet said today. Suspending the “automatic” nature of
the new gas pricing system will be made more difficult through
an expected government decree currently being written.  “Exceptional circumstances,” will have to be invoked and
explained, Mestrallet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  