-- GDP: An Imperfect Measure of Progress
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-30T23:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/gdp-an-imperfect-measure-of-progress.html
Which is better for a country’s
well-being: $10 million spent constructing a jail, or $10
million spent producing a line of smartphones? How about clear-
cutting rain forests to produce $10 million in lumber? Or a
storm that requires $10 million in repairs?  Using today’s most common shorthand of national welfare,
gross domestic product, all of the above are equal. GDP measures
only output, and makes no claims on the quality of that output,
let alone on subjective concepts such as social progress or
human happiness. It does what it was intended to do -- offer a
value of marketed goods and services produced in a country in a
given time frame -- and does it reasonably well.  Unfortunately, as you’ll probably gather from the reaction
to this week’s announcement that U.S. GDP unexpectedly declined
in the last quarter of 2012, politicians have increasingly come
to rely on this measure as a singular tool for calibrating
public policy. This is a mistake.  As useful as GDP is, it has some crucial flaws. It can
obscure growing inequality and encourage the depletion of
resources. It can’t differentiate between spending on good
things (education) and terrible things (cigarettes). It doesn’t
measure the economic services that nature provides, such as the
dwindling wetlands that once protected New Orleans from storms,
or those that don’t come with a market price, such as raising
children. It fails to account for the value of social cohesion,
education, health, leisure, a clean environment -- in other
words, as Robert Kennedy once put it, GDP measures everything
“except that which makes life worthwhile.”  Some Improvements  This is why more and more economists and activists are
pushing to update GDP. The risk, though, is trying to
incorporate too much into one indicator -- particularly when it
comes to subjective measures such as happiness or well-being. A
far better approach would be to improve some of the measurements
used in national accounts, and develop a wider range of
individual indicators of welfare to inform public policy.  In doing so, here are four guidelines to keep in mind.  First, economists need faster access to accurate
information about growth, especially during recessions. Consider
that the original estimate of GDP growth for the fourth quarter
of 2008 was a contraction of 3.8 percent. Over several years
that figure was  revised  to 8.9 percent -- suggesting a much more
severe recession than most people realized in early 2009 when
Congress was debating President  Barack Obama ’s stimulus bill.
Several researchers, notably Jeremy Nalewaik of the Federal
Reserve,  have said  that gross domestic income had suggested the
onset of the recession earlier and with greater accuracy than
GDP had. Nalewaik and several co-authors  argued  that a combined
GDP-GDI measure would be more accurate, helping to offset some
of the measurement errors that inhere in GDP and ideally giving
policy makers a better economic picture when it most counts.  Second, we should take better account of non-market
production -- like household work -- that affects the economy.
The Bureau of Economic Analysis, which compiles the national-
income accounts of the U.S., has done an admirable job in recent
years of using “ satellite accounts ” to take a more comprehensive
snapshot of the economy. These enable experimentation with what
data the bureau collects, without jeopardizing the credibility
of the existing national accounts.  For instance, a  recent study  calculated a satellite account
for household production -- including non-market domestic
services such as gardening and housework, returns on consumer
durable goods, and return on government capital -- and found
that GDP would have been 26 percent larger in 2010 if it had
included such criteria. The study also found that the historical
annual growth rate of GDP would have been slower and measures of
income inequality would have been lower. Although such data
necessarily entail uncertainty, they can still offer
illuminating detail that’s missing from traditional measures.  Education, Health  The use of satellite accounts should be expanded prudently
(note to Congress: that means giving BEA more money), especially
to better account for education and  health care . As a 2005
National Research Council study  pointed out , non-market measures
should be consistent with existing national accounts and, where
possible, should use market analogs to determine value -- for
instance, by estimating the value of parental care using the
cost of private child care or the income a parent would forgo by
staying home.  Third, because GDP measures average income, it can obscure
important discrepancies at the household level. When incomes
rise disproportionately for the well-to-do, for instance, mean
income can increase even though many regular workers see their
paychecks cut. As a report from the think tank Demos  recently
noted , although U.S. GDP more than doubled over the past 30
years, median household income grew by only 16 percent. One
possible  solution , which the authors support: Create new
measures of household data for disposable income to better
capture families’ welfare and buying power.  Fourth, economists are generally converging on the idea
that some measurement of environmental impact could be added to
GDP. The current system doesn’t account for pollution, the
depletion of natural resources or the economic benefits nature
can provide. Fortunately, data on environmental accounting are
improving, and it’s possible, statistically if not politically,
to place a monetary value on environmental depletion that could
be subtracted from GDP. One way to begin might be to experiment
with satellite environmental accounts.  What about measures of social well-being? This information
is important, but measures proposed as a replacement or
improvement to GDP, such as the  Genuine Progress Indicator ,
typically suffer by including ideological or subjective
criteria. Better to collect such data as part of a limited
dashboard of additional indicators -- on health, the
environment, social cohesion and so on -- that is separate from
GDP. This is the approach  recommended  by the Stiglitz
Commission, which did exhaustive work on this subject for the
French government.  GDP is a universal, objective and very useful measurement.
But we should recognize its limitations. Increasing GDP
shouldn’t be governments’ only objective. Nor should GDP be
considered a definitive measurement of human welfare. For that,
we’ll have to expand our data. And, ultimately, hold our
politicians to better account.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 