-- George’s Fed Dissent Reflects Financial Stability Concern
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-01-30T23:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/george-s-fed-dissent-reflects-financial-stability-concern.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
President Esther George dissented today in her first vote on the
central bank’s policy committee because she was concerned that
record stimulus may fuel the risk of financial instability and a
surge in inflation.  George “was concerned that the continued high level of
monetary accommodation increased the risks of future economic
and financial imbalances and, over time, could cause an increase
in long-term inflation expectations,” the Federal Open Market
Committee statement said.  Since she became the leader of the Kansas City Fed in
October 2011, George’s views have echoed those of her
predecessor,  Thomas Hoenig , who dissented from policy actions in
2010 and called for raising the benchmark  interest rate  from
near zero. No first-time voter has dissented in recent decades,
said Carnegie Mellon University professor  Allan Meltzer , an
economist and author of a two-volume history of the Fed from
1913 to 1986.  It’s “unusual and probably unprecedented to dissent on
first vote,” Meltzer said. “President George recognizes that
the policy is wrong” and that Fed stimulus isn’t bolstering
growth, “unlike the throng cheering the policy on,” he said.  George has attended FOMC meetings for more than a year and
gained a vote this month as part of an annual rotation of
regional bank presidents.  Farmland Prices  Farmland prices in the Kansas City Fed’s district, which
covers western Missouri, Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma,  Wyoming ,
Colorado and northern  New Mexico , set records in the third
quarter, according to the Fed bank’s Survey of Tenth District
Agricultural Credit Conditions.  Non-irrigated cropland prices were up 25 percent from a
year earlier and irrigated land values advanced more than 20
percent, according to the  survey .  “Esther George’s dissent was not a surprise as the Federal
Reserve Bank of Kansas City holds the view that the economy is
in need of less stimulus than others,” said Wells Fargo
Securities LLC senior economist  Mark Vitner  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina . “The region’s economy has been stronger and
agriculture prices have been rising in the region. It makes a
lot of sense.”  Low interest rates and stronger demand for agricultural
commodities stoked a rise in land prices, George said Jan. 10 in
a speech in Kansas City, Missouri.  “A prolonged period of zero interest rates may
substantially increase the risks of future financial imbalances
and hamper attainment” of the Fed’s 2 percent inflation goal,
she told a civic group.  Prices “of assets such as bonds, agricultural land, and
high-yield and leveraged loans are at historically high levels”
and may signal market imbalances, George said.  George, 55, declined to be interviewed today. She was the
 Kansas City  Fed’s No. 2 official under Hoenig, who retired and
was later named vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. She joined  the Fed  in 1982, spent much of her career in
bank supervision and became first vice president in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  