-- German Campaign Buffets Cyprus Talks as Shiarly Seeks Rescue
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-01-31T07:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/germany-s-campaign-buffets-cyprus-talks-as-shiarly-pushes-rescue.html
Cyprus is beginning a diplomatic
effort to win the bailout it requested seven months ago as
election-year politics in  Germany  threaten to impede talks.  With Cyprus Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly speaking to
skeptical Dutch lawmakers in The Hague today, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  is seeking to satisfy doubters in
his Parliament in Berlin to back a fifth euro-area bailout.  By demanding that the so-called troika of creditors deem
Cyprus a threat to euro-area stability before aid is provided,
Schaeuble has restated European Union rules in an appeal to aid-
weary voters spooked by reports of Russian  money-laundering  in
Cyprus. He has also rattled smaller euro states.  “Schaeuble’s hesitation is for domestic consumption, a
good cop, bad cop game to convince lawmakers that there’s no
alternative to aid to Cyprus and to raise the price” for German
approval,  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels, said by telephone.  Cyprus has been bogged down in negotiations since June with
the troika, comprising the European Commission,  European Central
Bank  and  International Monetary Fund . Shiarly speaks to
lawmakers at 11:15 a.m. in the Netherlands, where Finance
Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem heads the group of euro finance
officials. He may travel to Berlin at a later date.  ‘Misleading’ Reports  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert, was the latest official to thump the EU rulebook,
saying yesterday that to qualify for aid, a country must pose a
risk to “all of the euro area.” He dismissed media reports
that Germany was softening its stance as “very misleading.”  In smaller euro capitals, which are required to contribute
to the ESM, Germany’s message may come across as a threat.  “Aid to euro-zone members can’t depend on the size of the
country,” Slovak Finance Minister Peter Kazimir said Jan. 29 in
an e-mailed reply to questions. “But of course, not meeting the
rules can’t remain unpunished.”  The ECB has already tipped its hand. Executive Board member
Joerg Asmussen, Schaeuble’s former deputy, said “disorderly
developments in Cyprus” could undermine progress made in the
crisis fight last year and send the wrong signal as aid
recipients Ireland and  Portugal  re-enter markets.  Euro-area finance chiefs will probably discuss the Cypriot
aid request in March based on the troika’s report, according to
the German Finance Ministry. Cyprus may need as much as 17.5
billion euros ($23.7 billion) to pay its bills and recapitalize
its banks, Shiarly said in November.  ‘Very Skeptical’  With eight months left before the Sept. 22 German election,
Merkel is fighting to deflect attacks from her main challenger,
 Peer Steinbrueck , who has said he’s “very, very skeptical”
about aid for Cyprus, citing money laundering and the country’s
“inflated” financial sector.  If Steinbrueck’s Social Democrats oppose aid, Merkel for
the first time would have to rely on her majority in parliament
to pass the package.  Merkel must also persuade allies such as  Michael Fuchs , a
deputy parliamentary leader of her  Christian Democratic Union ,
which is facing pressure from voters to rein in Germany’s
obligations.  “I cannot accept that all of a sudden small Cyprus is
systemic,” Fuchs said Jan. 29 in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Francine Lacqua. Cyprus is “definitely not” a
systemic risk, he said.  ‘No Other Way’  Schaeuble’s insistence on systemic relevance is “a kind of
needling to bring the subject to a head in order to force a
clear decision,” Brzeski said. “That will allow him to say
there was no other way and the troika report proves it.”  Shiarly will probably face similar resistance when he
speaks in the Dutch parliament today.  “It hasn’t been decided if the Netherlands will support
Cyprus,” said  Eddy van Hijum , a Christian Democrat lawmaker.
 Henk Nijboer  of the  Labor party , agreed. “If there’s going to
be a package for Cyprus there must be conditions like  Greece  had
on health care,  tax evasion , a complete fiscal package.”  Cyprus can’t wait until after the German election for aid,
said  Nicholas Papadopoulos , chairman of the Standing Committee
on Financial and Budgetary Affairs in the Cypriot House of
Representatives.  “Cyprus is under immense pressure when it comes to the
payment and refinancing of its public debt,” Papadopoulos said
by telephone Jan. 29. “And for banks, the longer the insecurity
remains, the greater the risk of flight of capital and
destabilization of the system.”  ‘Ongoing Supervision’  Papadopoulos said the target date for a rescue deal should
be end-March and that Cyprus, to soothe doubts in Germany and
other EU nations about the legality of the Cypriot banking
industry’s activities, would accept an “ongoing supervision”
of the financial system by an EU authority.  Such outside monitoring, he said, should help win political
backing in  Europe  for the case that Cyprus is a systemic risk to
the euro area because of the sizable presence of Cypriot banks
in the  Greek economy  and because a Cypriot debt default would
spark renewed doubts about the integrity of the 17-nation euro.  “Hopefully, it will go a long way to convincing them that
it is in their interest to support Cyprus,” Papadopoulos said.
“We aren’t looking for preferential treatment. We want
solidarity and equal treatment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  