-- German Stocks Decline After U.S. GDP Unexpectedly Shrinks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-01-30T13:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/german-stocks-little-changed-before-u-s-gdp-growth-data.html
German stocks  declined, paring a
monthly gain, as a report showed the  U.S. economy  unexpectedly
shrank in the fourth quarter.  Deutsche Boerse  AG fell 2.2 percent after  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
lowered its rating on the shares. EON SE rose after posting net
income that beat analyst estimates.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  added
2.3 percent as HSBC Holdings Plc reiterated its overweight
recommendation on the stock.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  declined 0.4 percent to 7,818.38 at 2:50 p.m.
in Frankfurt. The measure has still risen 2.7 percent this month
as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget and American
companies reported better-than-estimated earnings. The broader
HDAX Index also fell 0.4 percent today.  “The macroeconomic data from the U.S. is casting a shadow
over the market,” Soeren Steinert, who helps manage about $23
billion as associate director for equities trading at Quoniam
Asset Management GmbH in  Frankfurt , wrote in a message before
the data were released. “We are also seeing a little bit of
profit-taking after earlier in the morning the market was
supported a little by strong U.S. and Asian sessions.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the equity benchmark was 5.1 percent higher than the average of
the last 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. gross domestic product, the volume of all goods and
services produced, dropped at a 0.1 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, weaker than any economist forecast in a
Bloomberg survey and the worst performance since the second
quarter of 2009, when the world’s largest economy was still in
the recession, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington.  Fed Commitment  The  Federal Reserve  will probably renew its commitment to
continue buying assets into next year at a policy decision
today, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 44 economists.
The  Federal Open Market Committee  concludes its two-day meeting
and publishes its statement at 2:15 p.m.  New York  time.  Deutsche Boerse, operator of the Frankfurt stock exchange,
retreated 2.2 percent to 48.59 euros as Deutsche Bank cut its
recommendation on the shares to hold from buy, citing political
plans to restrict high frequency trading.  Salzgitter AG, the country’s second-biggest steelmaker,
declined 2.2 percent to 34.78 euros as Nomura Holdings Inc.
downgraded the shares to neutral from buy, saying the company’s
margins lag those of its peers.  EON Beats  EON added 0.4 percent to 13.38 euros, paring earlier gains
of as much as 4 percent.  Germany ’s biggest utility said adjusted
net income, which it uses to calculate its dividend, rose to 4.3
billion euros ($5.8 billion) from 2.5 billion euros in 2011.
That compares with the 4.15 billion-euro median estimate of 24
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. It estimates earnings on this
basis of 2.2 billion to 2.6 billion euros for 2013.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest lender, climbed 0.8
percent to 37.21 euros.  HeidelbergCement, the world’s third-largest cement maker,
added 2.3 percent to 46.46 euros. HSBC Holdings Plc reiterated
its overweight recommendation on the shares and named the stock
its top pick among peers in the European building-materials
industry, forecasting a strong recovery in earnings for cement
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  