-- German Government Bank-Separation Plan Premature, BDB Lobby Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-01-30T17:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/german-government-bank-separation-plan-premature-bdb-lobby-says.html
Germany ’s commercial banks urged the
government against rushing to force large retail banks to spin
off their proprietary trading, saying the coalition should wait
for outside appraisal of its plans before enacting them in law.  Unless separated, German deposit-taking institutions would
be forbidden to engage in proprietary trading, lending and
guarantees to hedge funds as well as high-frequency trading
above a volume of 100 billion euros ($136 billion), or 20
percent of the deposit-taking institute’s assets certain volume,
according to a draft law distributed to lawmakers in Berlin.  There’s no need for “hasty” initiatives by  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s government because there is no proof that the
division of commercial transactions increases financial-market
stability, the BDB banking association said today in an e-mailed
statement. All German business lobbies agree that maintaining
Germany’s universal banking system is in the interest of growth
and employment, it said.  “Before the federal government advances the separation of
commercial transactions, it should wait for the results of the
impact study for the Liikanen report planned by the European
Commission,” BDB managing director  Michael Kemmer  said in the
statement.  Banking legislation is swinging back into focus for German
lawmakers as they prepare to contest federal elections in
September. Merkel’s Social Democratic challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck , has already proposed that German banks split their
investment-banking operations from retail units to protect
depositors.  Deutsche Bank Lobby  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , a BDB member, is among banks in the EU to
have publicly lobbied against proposals by a high-level group,
led by Bank of Finland governor  Erkki Liikanen , to force large
lenders to spin off some trading activities into separately
capitalized units.  The commission will present draft bank-structure rules in
September in a bid to curb risk and prevent lenders being too-
big-to-fail, a spokesman for  Michel Barnier , the European
Union’s financial services chief, said today by e-mail.  “We generally welcome any measure that makes the financial
market safer,” Bjoern Saenger, a lawmaker for Merkel’s Free
Democratic Party coalition partner and a member of the lower
house finance committee, said in an interview in Berlin. The
government draft, “which is not a proposal for a clear-cut
separation system, can help achieve that.”  Concerns that Steinbrueck may benefit from hostile
sentiment toward the financial industry may have encouraged the
 Finance Ministry  to move quickly to draft the law. The
government aims to pass the law in the Bundestag, Germany’s
lower house of parliament, before the summer recess. It would
then need upper-house approval.  The  European Central Bank  said Jan. 28 that it’s vital to
evaluate the impact of the planned new banking rules across the
EU. Differences in the structure of the banking sectors could
produce “different consequences in terms of divergent funding
costs as well possible unintended consequences, namely on the
real economy of  member states ,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  