-- Gillard Signals Cuts to Tax Benefits for Wealthy Ahead of Poll
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-01-30T01:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/gillard-signals-cuts-to-tax-benefits-for-wealthy-ahead-of-poll.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , trailing in polls ahead of this year’s election,
signaled cuts to tax breaks and welfare for the higher paid as
her Labor government seeks to boost education and disability
spending.  “We will announce substantial new structural savings that
will maintain the sustainability of the budget and make room for
key Labor priorities,” Gillard said in a speech in Canberra
today. “Our record of cutting wasteful programs, in line with
our Labor values and purpose, is already strong.”  Gillard’s minority government is backing away from a pledge
to deliver a  budget surplus  this fiscal year as weaker growth
and a strong local currency curb tax receipts. It needs to find
revenue or savings to fund its policy commitments to revamp
funding for education, expected to cost about A$5 billion ($5.23
billion) a year, and boost disability welfare.  “This year we will make the tough, necessary decisions to
ensure our medium-term fiscal strategy is delivered, and our
centerpiece plans for Australian children and Australians with
disability are funded, in this new low-revenue environment,”
Gillard said in the text of the speech. She pointed to her
government’s record of eliminating tax breaks for the rich in
pension funds and health schemes as examples of previous
effective cuts.  Gillard’s Labor rose 3 percentage points to 49 percent on a
two-party preferred basis, with  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National
coalition falling 3 points to 51 percent, according to a
Newspoll survey published in the Australian newspaper on Jan.
15. An election must be held by Nov. 30.  Swan’s Pledge  Treasurer  Wayne Swan , who will deliver the May 14 budget,
told a business lunch in  New York  this month that the government
wouldn’t implement “savage” cuts to public-service spending.
That came after instigating the first overall cut to  government
spending  in at least 42 years in last year’s budget.  The government, in a midyear review released in October,
forecast a budget surplus of A$1.08 billion in the 12 months
ending June 30. It recorded a A$44 billion deficit last fiscal
year. Weaker commodity prices and an elevated currency have
prompted mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to put off
projects and cut jobs, while a construction slump forced
building-materials company  Boral Ltd. (BLD)  to reduce payrolls.  In a bid to stimulate the economy,  Australia ’s central bank
has cut its benchmark rate to 3 percent. The Australian
currency’s strength is putting pressure on industries that
compete with imports, including manufacturing and services.  “The economic diversity and competitiveness pressures our
nation faces now, because of our strong dollar and the huge boom
we’ve had in mining investment, may well persist even though
economic orthodoxy would predict their lessening,” Gillard said
today. “We cannot control a number of factors that have kept
our dollar strong: like the weakness in the global economy, the
close-to-zero interest rates of many nations and the increasing
view that Australia is something of a safe haven.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  