-- Glaxo Sued in the U.K. Over Avandia Diabetes Drug Health Risks
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-01-30T13:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/glaxo-sued-in-the-u-k-over-avandia-diabetes-drug-health-risks.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  faces at least
four U.K. lawsuits over its Avandia diabetes drug amid claims
it’s linked to an increased risk of heart attacks and congestive
heart failure.  The potential number of claims against the U.K.’s biggest
drugmaker may increase, said Daniel Slade, a lawyer at
Manchester firm  Express Solicitors , who represents consumers in
the four suits and has a further 15 clients.  “We expect the number of claims to increase as there are
potentially thousands of people out there who took Avandia in
the U.K.,” Slade said in a telephone interview today.
“Hopefully these claims will lead to more careful studies and
checks on drugs that are widely marketed.”  Glaxo has said it paid more than $3 billion to settle U.S.
federal and state government claims that it illegally marketed
Avandia, once the world’s best-selling diabetes pill, and other
medications.  David Daley, a spokesman for Brentford, U.K.-based Glaxo,
said that while the company can’t comment on specific cases, it
has “every sympathy for people with health complications
associated with diabetes.”  “We continue to believe that the company acted
appropriately and responsibly in its management of Avandia,”
Daley said.  Glaxo indicated to Express Solicitors that it intends to
fight the claims, filed in Manchester,  England , setting aside
600,000 pounds ($946,200) in litigation costs for one case,
Slade said.  “Even though a settlement was reached in the U.S. to
settle lawsuits, it seems GSK wishes to put up a fight in the
U.K.,” Slade said.  Editors: Anthony Aarons, Christopher Scinta  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  