-- Global A&T Makes Dollar Bond Return as Petron, MIE Market Notes
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-01-30T03:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/global-a-t-makes-dollar-bond-return-as-petron-mie-market-notes.html
Global A&T Electronics Ltd. is
marketing a U.S. dollar-denominated bond two months after
pulling an offering. Debt risk in the Asia-Pacific region rose.  The Singapore-based semiconductor tester is marketing $625
million of six-year notes, according to a person familiar with
the matter. The company postponed a similar-maturity offering in
November, other people with knowledge of the plans said at the
time.  Petron Corp. (PCOR) , the  Philippines ’ largest oil company, is
planning to sell perpetual securities at a yield of about 7.5
percent, while  MIE Holdings Corp. (1555) , a Hong Kong-headquartered oil
explorer with fields in  China ’s Songliao Basin, is marketing
five-year notes at about 6.875 percent, people said.  Global A&T Electronics is the second company this week to
revisit a postponed deal as issuers take advantage of low yields
and fund managers invest in the region.  KWG Property Holding
Ltd. (1813)  sold seven-year notes yesterday after scrapping a perpetual
bond less than two weeks prior. Emerging market bond funds have
had 32 consecutive weeks of inflows, versus nine weeks of
outflows for U.S. government bond funds, according to data from
EPFR Global released Jan. 25.  “Issuers are rushing to market to get their deals done
before Chinese New Year,” said Annisa Lee, a Hong Kong-based
credit analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “Otherwise, they’ll have
to wait for a few weeks for the markets to reopen.”  Secondary Trade  Average premiums on U.S. currency bonds in  Asia  were at a
20-month low of 245 basis points on Jan. 7, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  indexes .  KWG Property sold $300 million of 8.625 percent seven-year
bonds Jan. 29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
notes, sold at par, were trading at 100.2 cents on the dollar as
of 10:28 a.m. in Hong Kong, prices quoted by BNP Paribas SA on
Bloomberg show.  Global A&T’s bonds were pulled because of market
conditions, three people familiar with the matter said on Nov.
7, asking not to be identified because the terms weren’t set.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  climbed one basis point to 110 basis
points as of 8:05 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The gauge is set for its highest close
since Jan. 16, according to data provider CMA.  Australian Bonds  The Markit iTraxx Australia index advanced one basis point
to 117.5 as of 11:05 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac
Banking Corp. prices. The benchmark is poised for its highest
close since Jan. 1, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 0.5 of a basis point
to 134.5 basis points as of 9:15 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to
Citigroup Inc. prices. The measure has fallen from 159 basis
points at the end of 2012, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  