-- Google’s Increased Lobbying Belies Cut in Total Spending
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-01-30T21:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/google-s-increased-lobbying-belies-cut-in-total-spending.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , subject of a U.S.
antitrust investigation, increased its lobbying costs by 88
percent to move into the top 10 of spenders seeking to influence
the federal government even as the total price of persuasion
declined for the second straight year.  Mountain View , California-based Google spent $18.2 million
last year, including $1.7 million by its Motorola Mobility
subsidiary acquired in May. That was up from $9.7 million in
2011, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based group that tracks lobbying expenditures aimed
at lawmakers, the White House and federal agencies.  Other technology companies such as  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which has
had to confront concerns over privacy, also ratcheted up their
lobbying. Facebook spent $4 million in 2012, up from $1.4
million a year earlier.  Total spending on lobbying fell to $3.28 billion last year,
compared with $3.33 billion in 2011 and $3.52 billion in 2010.  “It’s a continued slide, but there are industries that are
ramping up, like the tech industry, where some companies are
opening up shops and some are expanding,” said Viveca Novak,
editorial and communications director at the Center for
Responsive Politics.  Novak suggested that the total decline in 2012 lobbying
spending reflects partly the economy and partly that in an
election year, “Congress wasn’t doing very much.”  Northrop’s Spending  Even so, the National Association of Realtors almost
doubled its expenditures to $41.5 million from $22.4 million,
and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  spent $17.5 million, up from $12.8
million in 2011.  Northrop Chief Executive Officer Wes Bush has called on the
U.S. to relax export restrictions that prevent overseas sales of
drones like Global Hawk, one of the issues the company reported
lobbying on.  “As a leader in global security, Northrop Grumman believes
it is important to participate in the democratic process at the
federal, state and local level,” said  Randy Belote , a spokesman
for the  Falls Church , Virginia-based company. “The primary goal
of our activities is to provide information to decision-
makers.”  Northrop, like other defense companies, faces across-the-
board defense-spending cuts of $45 billion through September
unless President  Barack Obama  and Congress agree by March on an
alternative way to reduce the  federal budget   deficit .  Defense Spending  The biggest plunge in defense spending in four decades
brought the  U.S. economy  to an unexpected standstill in the
fourth quarter, with the Commerce Department reporting today
that gross domestic product dropped at a 0.1 percent annual
rate.  Among companies cutting lobbying expenditures,
 ConocoPhillips (COP) , the largest U.S. independent oil producer,
decreased its spending to $3.9 million in 2012 from $20.6
million in 2011. Daren Beaudo, a spokesman for Houston-based
ConocoPhillips, said the company changed its method of reporting
lobbying expenses.  Lobbying costs by health-care companies and medical
practitioners including doctors and nurses, which reached $505.7
million in 2011 -- more than for any other industry -- declined
to $478.9 million in 2012.  Google’s Push  Google helped scuttle anti-piracy legislation in the last
Congress, and is organizing an effort to limit government access
to digital communications. Early last year, Google hired as its
chief lobbyist former Representative Susan Molinari of New York,
the keynote speaker at the 1996  Republican National Convention .  “Technology issues are a large part of the policy
discussion in Washington these days,” said  Samantha Smith , a
Google spokeswoman. “It is important to help people understand
our business and the work we do to keep the Internet open and
encourage economic opportunity.”  The Federal Trade Commission voted Jan. 3 to close a 20-
month investigation into whether Google favored its own services
in results provided by its search engine, the world’s largest.
Google also settled FTC allegations it misused patents owned by
Motorola Mobility to thwart competitors in smartphone
technology.  Google bought Motorola Mobility Holdings for $12.4 billion.
The company is embroiled in patent-infringement litigation with
iPhone maker  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over features in smartphones.  GE Tops List  Google’s fourth-quarter  net income  rose 6.7 percent to
$2.89 billion, or $8.62 a share. Its fourth-quarter profit,
excluding certain items, rose to $10.65 a share, beating
analysts’ estimates.  General Electric Co. (GE) , based in Fairfield,  Connecticut , was
the biggest corporate spender on lobbying, as it was in 2011 and
2010. It reported $21.1 million in lobbying expenses in 2012,
down from $26.3 million the year before.  “GE is a large industrial and technology company with
broad interests that impact health care, transportation,
consumer products, energy, finance and many other industries,”
said a spokesman,  Seth Martin .  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce again spent more than any
other entity. The largest U.S. business lobby and its affiliate
spent $135.5 million, up from $65.8 million a year earlier.  There was no immediate comment from the office of the
realtors’ association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  