-- Google’s App Revenue Increases Sixfold as It Chases Apple Store
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-01-30T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/google-s-app-revenue-increases-sixfold-as-it-chases-apple-store.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , benefiting from growing
sales of smartphones running its Android software, boosted
revenue from mobile applications more than sixfold in 2012 as it
gained ground on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , according to a report from research
group App Annie.  Customers buying games in  Japan  and  South Korea  helped
drive the increase, according to App Annie’s index that tracks
the market for buying and selling games, productivity tools and
other mobile-software apps. Apple has disclosed that its App
Store generated about $333 million a month from June to
December. That’s about 3.5 times larger than at Google’s store,
called Google Play, according to  App Annie .  The year-end results indicate that Google is having success
building on Android’s use by almost 70 percent of the world’s
smartphones. Developers who once wrote software only for Apple
are now dedicating resources to Google to reach new customers,
according to App Annie.  “Both platforms are very healthy,” said Oliver Lo, vice
president of marketing for App Annie. “More and more publishers
are going cross-platform than a year ago.”  App Annie wouldn’t disclose specific revenue figures
because it sells that information separately to software
companies that buy the data and analytics. While Apple has said
the  App Store  has generated more than $7 billion since 2008,
Google hasn’t made such information public. Apple has more than
800,000 apps on its store, and Google has more than 700,000.  Apple, whose App Store sales increased about 20 percent
from October to December, benefited from the introduction of the
iPhone 5 and iPad mini, App Annie said. While its growth rate
wasn’t as high as Google’s, Apple’s store grew more in absolute
revenue because it has a larger customer base, the firm said.  Having software developers build puzzles, health and work-
productivity tools and other apps are critical as companies such
as Apple, Google and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  try to appeal to customers
who are moving more of their daily computing needs to handheld
devices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  