-- Grill Chuck Hagel, Then Confirm Him
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-30T18:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/grill-chuck-hagel-then-confirm-him.html
A president should be allowed to
assemble the Cabinet he wants, barring any egregious
disqualifying transgression. Thus the  U.S. Senate  should confirm
Chuck Hagel as President  Barack Obama ’s next defense secretary.  However, given Hagel’s past positions and statements, his
former Senate colleagues on the Armed Services Committee would
do well to fulfill the “advise” portion of their role in
confirmations and demand detailed answers to tough questions
during this week’s hearing. We might end up knowing not just
where Hagel stands on hot-button issues, but get a much better
feel for the Obama administration’s second-term foreign policy
and national security agenda.  The  acrimonious spat  over Hagel’s nomination has been ill-
served through its focus on whether his years-old reference to a
“Jewish lobby” indicated he is anti-Semitic. Despite some
intemperate remarks, notably over the plight of the
Palestinians, Hagel’s legislative support for  Israel  gives us no
reason to think so.  Unilateral Sanctions  Another controversy, over his opposition as a Republican
senator in the 1990s to a gay man serving as a U.S. ambassador,
is slightly more relevant given the changing nature of the post-
“don’t ask, don’t tell” armed forces, but still constitutes a
distraction.  So, senators, focus instead on the central issues that
Hagel will shape policy over: countering Iran, combating nuclear
proliferation, downsizing the military and putting U.S. boots on
the ground in conflicts.  Twice in his Senate career -- in 2001 and 2008 -- Hagel was
one of only two  votes opposing  unilateral financial sanctions
against Iran; he objected to labeling  Iran ’s Revolutionary
Guards as a terrorist group; and he has called for “direct,
unconditional and comprehensive talks with Iran.” He even wrote
that a nuclear-armed Iran might have a silver lining, as states
with atomic weapons “will often respond with some degree of
responsible, or at least sane, behavior.” For someone who bills
himself as a foreign policy “realist,” that seems like wishful
fantasizing. The concern is not simply that a nuclearized Iran
would bomb  Tel Aviv , but that it would severely tilt the power
balance in the  Middle East  against U.S. interests and global
peace.  While we have no objections to unconditional talks with
Iran, sanctions should be ramped up until the regime in Tehran
satisfies the requests of the  International Atomic Energy Agency 
and takes verifiable steps away from its military atomic
program. And though Hagel is correct that multilateral sanctions
are best, sometimes acting alone is vital. Hagel should be asked
if he regrets his anti-sanction votes and if he supports the
Obama administration’s laudable actions to increase pressure and
get our European allies on board. We are particularly interested
in his opinion on the sanctions against Iran’s state-controlled
energy sector in the Defense Authorization Act signed by Obama
this month.  Hagel is also taking heat for having signed on to Global
Zero, a bipartisan group of veteran political, diplomatic and
military figures advocating the eradication of nuclear arms.
Obama, too, says he shares that goal, and neither man is
advocating unilateral disarmament. The question is what path
Hagel recommends, and what near-term changes the Pentagon should
make. Given budget constraints and the lack of a superpower
threat, we advocate big cuts to our Cold-War-era
intercontinental missile program and high-yield warheads, to be
balanced by increasing tactical nuclear capabilities more
appropriate for today’s asymmetrical threats.  Stopping Boondoggles  Hagel’s version of realism seems to be marked by an extreme
hesitancy to use force, at least in anything other than
protecting the most vital U.S. interests. That vision is hard to
square with his Senate votes in favor of the 2003 invasion of
 Iraq  but against the surge four years later -- on both counts
he, like incoming Secretary of State  John Kerry , rejected the
advice of leading realists such as former National Security
Adviser Brent Scowcroft. Does he regret those votes today? What
has the experience taught him in terms of, say, how the U.S.
should handle the crises in Syria and  Mali ?  Of course, the biggest war facing the next defense
secretary is against budget bulge. The traditional military
response to belt tightening is to share the pain by cutting
programs across the board. The committee should ask Hagel if he
has considered the smarter course of exercising budgetary
triage.  There are many less-vital programs and outright boondoggles
that could be pared back significantly or even shuttered -- the
Marine version of the F-35 fighter, for example, or the Navy’s
troubled littoral combat ship. That is, if a secretary was
willing to take on the entrenched interests that keep them
alive. And it’s not just hardware: Would a Secretary Hagel
consider major cuts in force size, something Obama has shied
away from? After all, as we saw after the Sept. 11 attacks, the
military can increase manpower in a hurry during a crisis, while
procurement programs take longer to start or resuscitate.  Last, according to  Bob Woodward  of the Washington Post,
Hagel  said  in 2011 that “the president has not had commander-in-
chief control of the Pentagon” since at least 1992. He shouldn’t
be confirmed until he provides the context. It would be very
worrying if he has seen the military as some sort of renegade
institution with its own agenda. If, on the other hand, he meant
he is set to challenge the institutional status quo by looking
at all options to downsize and still meet future threats --
something his predecessors Les Aspin in 1993 and  Donald Rumsfeld 
in 2001 tried and failed to do -- then we wish him luck.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 