-- Iberia Pilots Urge Talks With Walsh While Offering Trade-Off
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-01-30T14:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/iberia-pilots-urge-talks-with-walsh-while-offering-trade-off-1-.html
Iberia pilots appealed to
 International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  Chief Executive
Officer Willie Walsh, saying they’re willing to cooperate to
help prop up the unprofitable Spanish flag carrier.  “We are fully conscious of Iberia’s actual situation and
we are ready to undertake our share of needed sacrifices,”
Justo Peral Cabrera, chairman of the Sepla union that represents
the pilots, said in a Jan. 29 letter to Walsh obtained by
Bloomberg News. While the union is “really concerned,” it’s
willing to “follow any path” to avoid a “conflict
situation,” he said.  IAG announced plans in November to shrink Iberia’s fleet
and scrap 4,500 jobs, more than one-fifth of the total, as
Europe’s third-biggest airline seeks to stem losses that have
wiped out earnings from its British Airways brand. The Spanish
union offered to travel to IAG’s headquarters to meet Walsh in a
last-ditch attempt to reach an accord, amid a looming Jan. 31
deadline for Iberia management to reach agreement.  Workers unions including UGT walked out of negotiations
yesterday when they failed to reach confirmation that IAG would
accept a negotiated deal, said Manuel Atienza, a spokesman for
the union. The six major Iberia unions will meet the carrier’s
management tomorrow at 11 a.m. in  Madrid , Atienza said.  “We just don’t want to waste our time if IAG will
eventually not back our decision” he said. A compromise
proposal to reduce total job cuts by 700 positions to 3,800 is
“ridiculous,” he said. “Iberia has completely lost control of
the company to IAG.”  Capacity Cut  An Iberia spokesman, based in Madrid, declined to comment
when contacted by Bloomberg News today.  IAG shares fell 0.7 percent to 218 pence at 2:27 p.m. in
London. The stock has gained 23 percent in the past 12 months,
valuing the London-based company at 4.04 billion pounds ($6.37
billion).  Under the restructuring plan announced in November,
Iberia’s fleet will be cut by 25 aircraft to reduce capacity by
15 percent next year, short-haul salaries will be clipped to
levels at low-cost carriers, and unprofitable routes will be
suspended. Walsh, who led the BA-Iberia merger in 2011, is
seeking a 600 million-euro ($813 million) turnaround in earnings
by 2015 at the Spanish unit, which lost 262 million euros in the
first nine months of last year.  “IAG have gone into this knowing there would be an element
of bargaining,” Donal O’Neill, an analyst with Goodbody
Stockbrokers in Dublin, said in an interview. “They need to
come up with a satisfactory deal where IAG gets 90 percent of
what it wants.”  Competitors Save  Rival Air France-KLM Group,  Europe ’s No. 1 carrier, is
looking to shave 10 percent from non-fuel costs and cut net debt
by 2 billion euros under its Transform 2015 plan. Deutsche
Lufthansa AG, Europe’s second-biggest, plans to save 1.5 billion
euros by 2015, by cutting 4,500 jobs, scrapping routes, freezing
capacity and delaying an upgrade of its inter-continental fleet.  Dropping unsuccessful Iberia routes will stem operating
losses in excess of 100 million euros, Oddo Securities analysts
Yan Derocles and Olfa Taamallah said in a Jan. 9 note to
investors. Redundancy costs will probably total about 300
million euros, they said.  IAG is also bolstering Spanish operations via a 113
million-euro bid for the shares it doesn’t yet own of Spanish
discount carrier Vueling Airlines SA. The company already owns
45.85 percent of Spain’s second-largest carrier after Iberia,
and plans to complete the deal later this year, establishing a
low-cost platform within the group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  