-- Illinois Delays $500 Million Bond Offer After S&P Rating Cut
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-01-30T17:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/illinois-delays-500-million-bond-offer-after-rating-downgrade.html
Illinois  postponed a $500 million
offer of general-obligation bonds planned for today, citing
unfavorable market conditions after Standard & Poor’s cut its
credit rating last week and threatened to drop the grade again.  Illinois still plans to sell the securities, though it has
“no set date,” said John Sinsheimer, the state’s director of
capital markets, in a telephone interview. The offer was set to
be sold competitively, with banks bidding for the debt, and the
state said its decision followed conversations with potential
buyers.  “It was straightforward -- today is Wednesday, we had
ratings actions Friday afternoon,” Sinsheimer said. “When we
feel that the market has had the time it needs to digest the
news and has settled down, we’ll be back.”  The delay may hinder the school construction and
transportation improvements that the sale proceeds would fund.
Those projects would join the doctors, hospitals, pharmacists
and other vendors who have waited more than six months in some
cases for payments from the state. Illinois has $9 billion in
unpaid bills.  S&P cited that backlog and Illinois lawmakers’ “poor track
record” on fixing the state’s retirement system in reducing its
rating Jan. 25 to A-, six levels below AAA. That ties it with
 California  for the lowest state grade in the nation.  Market Declines  The postponement followed two trading days in which
interest rates climbed across the $3.7 trillion municipal-debt
market, tracking losses in Treasuries. The  yield  on benchmark
tax-exempts due in 10 years touched 1.76 percent yesterday, the
highest since Jan. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors will want added compensation on Illinois debt
given the jump in yields and the rating action, said Daniel Solender, who helps oversee $19.5 billion in munis at Lord
Abbett & Co. in Jersey City, New Jersey.  “When a deal comes and they have to sell this larger
amount of bonds, given the headlines and given that we’ve been
down for a few days, it leads to discussion of spreads getting
wider,” Solender said.  Buyers already demand the highest yield spread on bonds
from Illinois among the 19 states tracked by Bloomberg data.
Muni investors require an extra  1.4 percentage points  above AAA
benchmarks to hold debt from the state and its localities, the
data show.  The penalty relative to California has risen since Illinois
legislators ended their 2012 session Jan. 8 without a pension
overhaul, after also failing to act during a special session in
August.  Illinois’s state retirement system is the weakest in the
U.S., with just 39 percent of assets needed to cover projected
obligations for five major groups of public employees, according
to the Civic Federation, a Chicago-based nonprofit research
group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  