-- Time Inc. Said to Eliminate About 6% of Workforce
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-01-30T21:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/time-inc-said-to-eliminate-about-6-of-workforce.html
Time Inc. (TWX) , the largest magazine
publisher in the U.S., is eliminating about 500 positions, or 6
percent of its workforce, as newsstand sales and advertising
continue to decline.  The job cuts occurred across all divisions within Time
Inc., Chief Executive Officer Laura Lang said in an e-mailed
memo, obtained by Bloomberg News.  “With the significant and ongoing changes in our industry,
we must continue to transform our company into one that is
leaner, more nimble and more innately multiplatform,” Lang said
in the memo to employees. “These reductions are part of this
important transformation process.”  Lang, who took the reins last year, has been  working to
merge  print and Web advertising operations, aiming to
reinvigorate what has become Time Warner Inc.’s worst-performing
division. It has struggled to shift from print to the Internet,
where advertising commands lower rates than with traditional
magazine campaigns.  The division’s sales fell 6.2 percent to $2.47 billion in
the first nine months of 2012 from the year-earlier period. The
unit had 8,000 employees before the job cuts.  One of the challenges: Readers aren’t buying as many
magazines at newsstands. Single-copy sales of People, the
company’s most profitable title, fell 19 percent in the first
half of 2012 from the year-earlier period, according to the
Alliance for Audited Media. The company publishes 21 magazines
in the U.S.  Peter Kafka of AllThingsD  reported  earlier today the number
of people who would be eliminated.  The firings mirror job eliminations from late 2008, when
the publisher cut around 600 positions worldwide.  Time Warner, based in New York, rose less than 1 percent to
$50.14 at the close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  