-- Imperial Tobacco Falls Most Since 2009 on First-Half Profit Blow
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-01-30T14:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/imperial-tobacco-sees-first-half-profit-declining-on-europe-1-.html
Imperial Tobacco Group Plc, (IMT)  Europe’s
second-biggest tobacco company, slumped the most since May 2009
in  London  trading after saying first-half profit will decline
because of worsening conditions in countries such as  Spain .  The  shares  fell as much as 5.4 percent to 2,333 pence, the
lowest intraday price since Nov. 1.  Imperial generates about 40 percent of profit from Europe,
where consumption of duty-paid cigarettes slid 7 percent in the
first quarter ended Dec.31, the Bristol, England-based company
said today in a statement.  Growth in  emerging markets  and higher prices helped fuel a
2 percent increase in net tobacco revenue during the quarter,
though that was below the average  estimate  of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg for a 3.2 percent increase. About 55
percent of profit will come in the second half of the fiscal
year ending in September, the company also said, adding that it
still sees full-year results “in line” with expectations.  “It was a soft quarter, with trading worsening in Europe
and Russia, and this means profits will be under pressure in the
first half,” said  Rogerio Fujimori , an analyst at Credit
Suisse. “Cost savings will save the day in the second half.”  Imperial Tobacco  was down 5.1 percent at 2,341 pence at
2:16 p.m., the third -biggest drop  in the U.K.  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX) 
Competitor  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  also fell, retreating
1.1 percent to 3,266.5 pence.  CFO Retiring  Imperial has raised prices and pushed its main brands into
emerging markets to make up for declining consumption in
countries such as Spain and the U.K., where the company is
market leader. Britain, which accounts for about 20 percent of
Imperial’s  profit , according to Berenberg Bank, is considering a
law that would require cigarettes to be sold in plain packs
without any logos, following Australia’s legislation last year.  “Ongoing weak volume trends in Europe are not a huge
surprise, but given recent strong pricing in the U.K. and France
we had expected a little better,” said James Bushnell, an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in London.  So-called “strategic brands,” which also include JPS,
boosted shipments by 10 percent and revenue by 12 percent in the
quarter, said the company, which holds its annual meeting today.
Fine-cut tobacco volumes rose 9 percent, thanks to gains in
western and central Europe.  “The growth momentum in key markets in  Africa  and the
 Middle East  and Asia Pacific is being offset by the current
adverse market dynamics in Europe,” Chief Executive Officer
Alison Cooper said in the statement. The company also said Chief
Financial Officer Bob Dyrbus is retiring and will remain in the
post during the process to appoint his successor.  In the U.S., a country Cooper pledged to focus on after a
decline in revenue and market share in 2012, the cigarette maker
said its share of spending was “stable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  