-- Indonesian Thermal Coal Swaps Extend Gain; Australia Rain Passes
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-01-30T07:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/indonesian-thermal-coal-swaps-extend-gain-australia-rain-passes.html
Swaps prices gained a fourth day for
thermal coal from  Indonesia , the world’s largest exporter of the
fuel, according to Ginga Petroleum  Singapore  Pte.  The swap for Indonesian sub-bituminous coal with a
calorific value of 4,900 kilocalories a kilogram in the second
quarter added 5 cents to $66.15 a metric ton on a net-as-
received basis yesterday, Ginga said in an e-mail today. The
contract for February rose 20 cents to $64.85 a ton.  Contracts for coal with a heating value of 5,500
kilocalories a kilogram for shipment to South China in the
second quarter dropped 45 cents to $87.25 a ton on a net-as-
received basis, the energy broker said. The February contract
rose 5 cents to $85.60 a ton.  Prices of power-station coal at  Australia ’s port of
Newcastle, a benchmark grade for Asia, will rebound this year
amid rising demand from China, according to Standard Chartered
Plc. Prices will increase to $100 a ton in 2014 after averaging
$95 a ton this year, Serene Lim, an analyst at the bank, said at
a conference in Singapore yesterday.  Coal mines in Australia are returning to normal after rains
from ex-tropical cyclone Oswald passed in Queensland, limiting
price increases for the commodity.  Newcastle coal closed little changed at $95.40 a ton
yesterday after climbing 1.3 percent on Jan. 28, the most in
more than three months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Xstrata Plc’s operations are back to normal after a brief
suspension because of rain, and BHP Billiton Ltd.’s sites are
operating, the companies said yesterday.  Australia Rains  Prices surged in 2011 after flooding inundated about three-
quarters of Queensland state, shutting mines and prompting BHP
Billiton and Rio Tinto Group to notify customers they would miss
shipments. The deluge from Oswald has swamped rail lines and
disrupted output from producers including Yancoal Australia
Ltd., a unit of  China ’s Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. in the Bowen
Basin, the biggest source of Australia’s hard coking coal.  A commodity swap is a financial agreement whereby a
floating price is exchanged for a fixed rate over a specified
contract period. About 60 percent of Indonesia’s coal is
classified as sub-bituminous. Higher moisture levels and a lower
carbon content reduce the heating value compared with better-
quality stock. Sub-bit coal has fewer than 6,100 kilocalories
per kilogram, according to the Indonesian energy ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  