-- Iron Ore Seen Declining to $140 on Lower Imports, New Year
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-01-30T09:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/iron-ore-seen-dropping-to-140-on-new-year-break-lower-imports.html
Iron ore is poised to decline
through the end of March as China, the world’s largest user, has
a week-long holiday next month and mills buy more domestic
supplies,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said.  The price may drop to $140 a metric ton by the end of the
first quarter, Mark Pervan, global head of commodity strategy,
said in a report today. Iron ore with 62 percent content
delivered to the Chinese port of Tianjin was at $148.40 a dry
ton yesterday, according to  data  from The Steel Index Ltd.  Iron ore rallied from near a three-year low in September as
China’s growth accelerated in the final quarter and ore imports
rose to a record on mills’ restocking. A slump in Capesize ship
rates in December flagged a drop in imports into China this
month, Pervan wrote. Financial markets in the second-largest
economy will close for a week starting Feb. 11 to mark the Lunar
New Year.  “Trading is already starting to wind down for the Chinese
Lunar New Year,” Pervan wrote. “We also hear that steel mills
are buying a higher level of cheaper domestic iron ore” as they
seek to reduce costs, he said.  February ore swaps gained $1 to $148 a ton as of 9:09 a.m.
in London, according to figures from GFI Group Inc.  Down to $110?  The steelmaking raw material reached $158.50 a ton on Jan.
8, the highest level since October 2011, after rallying from
$86.70 in September. The advance is unsustainable, according to
a Jan. 21 report from Bank of America Corp., which forecast a
drop to $110 by year-end as global supply increases.  Daily average charter costs for Capesizes, the largest ore
carriers, declined 2.1 percent to $7,623 yesterday, according to
the Baltic Exchange, the London-based publisher of freight
rates. The Baltic Capesize Index dropped 44 percent in December.  Vale SA (VALE3) , the biggest iron-ore producer, said yesterday
prices will be supported this year by Chinese growth. The Rio de
Janeiro-based company is optimistic as China is set to increase
spending on infrastructure and construction, Investor Relations
Director Roberto Castello Branco said.  “We remain upbeat on the outlook for iron ore from the
second quarter as further government stimulus and improving
economic data confirms a better China growth outcome,” Pervan
said. The commodity may trade from $130 to $150 a ton this year,
he said.  China’s economic growth sped up to 7.9 percent in the
fourth quarter, ending a seven-quarter slowdown. Growth may gain
to 8.1 percent this quarter, the median estimate compiled by
Bloomberg shows. Chinese manufacturing is expanding at the
fastest rate in two years this month, a preliminary survey from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed Jan. 24.  Iron ore is measured in dry tons, or metric tons less
moisture. At Tianjin, moisture can account for 8 percent to 10
percent of weight. Chinese ore  imports  rose to a record 70.9
million tons last month, customs data showed.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  