-- Israel Jet Strike in Syria Said to Hit Arms for Hezbollah
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-01-31T11:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/israel-strikes-convoy-near-syria-lebanon-border-afp-says.html
Israeli jets hit Syrian trucks
carrying anti-aircraft missiles for the Islamic militant group
Hezbollah across the border into Lebanon, according to a Western
official who asked not to be named citing regulations.  The Iran-backed Hezbollah “strongly” denounced  Israel ’s
strike and called for widespread condemnation of the “barbaric
aggression.” Senior Iranian officials arrived in Syria last
night for a three-way meeting with Hezbollah, the pro-government
Syria Steps website said.  The exact location of the airstrike conducted overnight on
Jan. 29 was unclear. The target was later disputed by the state-
run Syrian Arab News Agency, which said Israeli warplanes had
struck a defense research center in Jamraya, northwest of the
capital, Damascus, killing at least two people.  The attack is a clear signal that Israel will intervene to
stop advanced weapons, such as SA-17 anti-aircraft missiles,
from falling into the hands of its enemies. It was Israel’s
first strike inside  Syria  since the start of the March 2011
popular uprising against President Bashar al-Assad that’s since
morphed into a civil war that’s claimed over 60,000 lives.  “For Israel, it would be preferable that the sophisticated
weapons systems in Syria be taken over by a Western power. But
because the world is showing no willingness to do what was done
in Libya or  Iraq , Israel finds itself facing this dilemma
alone,” Tzachi Hanegbi, a former head of parliament’s foreign
affairs and defense committee and a member of Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu’s Likud-Beitenu party, said on Army Radio.  Eyes Open  The Lebanese Shiite militia, considered a terrorist group
by the U.S. and Israel, fought a monthlong war with Israel in
2006 during which it fired thousands of rockets at the Jewish
state.  “Israel can’t allow the transport of weapons from state to
non-state actors,” said Ronnie Bar-On, an outgoing lawmaker
from Kadima and head of the foreign affairs and defense
committee. “We are keeping our eyes open.”  Jonathan Spyer, a political scientist at the
Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya, said that the report that
Israel had stopped a convoy of anti-aircraft missiles from
reaching Hezbollah made sense. Israel’s air force flies over
Lebanon on a daily basis even during peaceful times on
surveillance flights, “and if Hezbollah were to get the anti-
aircraft system that would put pilots in danger each time,” he
said by phone.  Visiting General  The attack came as Major General Aviv Kochavi, head of
Israeli military intelligence, was in  Washington  for talks with
U.S. military officials including Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman
General Martin Dempsey.  “This scheduled meeting has been planned for quite some
time,” a Pentagon spokesman, Air Force Lieutenant Colonel Jack
Miller, said in an e-mailed statement. Israel Army Radio said 
the Israeli government informed the U.S. about its intention 
to strike but gave no further details.  In recent days, Netanyahu has raised alarm about the
potential diversion of Syria’s chemical-weapons arsenal as
Assad’s Alawite minority fights to survive against a Sunni-led
revolt that counts Islamist fighters among its ranks.  “We must look around us, at what is happening in  Iran  and
its proxies and at what is happening in other areas, with the
deadly weapons in Syria, which is increasingly coming apart,”
Netanyahu told his Cabinet.  ‘Weapons Systems’  Israel’s Iron Dome missile-defense system was deployed this
month at an unspecified site in the north closer to the Lebanese
and Syrian borders, an army spokeswoman said on Jan. 27. Iron
Dome was used to shoot down hundreds of rockets fired from the
Gaza Strip during Israel’s November conflict with Hamas and
other militant groups.  Hezbollah said in a statement carried by the official
National News Agency that the reported Israeli strike was part
of Israel’s attempts “to prevent any Arab or Islamic power from
consolidating and improving its military” capabilities.  Hassan Nasrallah, the chief of the militant Shiite Muslim
group, “is interested today in removing to Lebanon whatever he
can get under his custody” from Syria’s arsenal, retired
Israeli Brigadier General Amnon Sofrin, a former top official in
Israel’s Mossad intelligence agency, said yesterday.  Hezbollah has defied a UN Security Council resolution
calling for disarmament, saying it needs to defend the country
from Israel, which invaded in 1978, 1982 and 2006. Hezbollah and
its allies also clashed with other Lebanese groups in May 2008,
leaving at least 80 people dead after its gunmen took over parts
of  Beirut .  “Israel has set red lines regarding the transfer of
certain kinds of weaponry to Hezbollah and if these lines are
crossed it will enforce them as quietly and as inconspicuously
as possible,” said Spyer. “It doesn’t want to humiliate the
other side so they don’t feel the necessity to respond.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  