-- Italian Business Confidence Unexpectedly Falls on Recession
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-01-30T09:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/italian-business-confidence-unexpectedly-falls-on-recession.html
Italian business confidence
unexpectedly fell to the lowest since October as the country’s
fourth recession since 2001 deepened, damping the outlook for an
economic recovery.  The manufacturing-sentiment index decreased to 88.2 in
January from 88.9 the previous month, Rome-based national
statistics institute Istat said today. Economists had predicted
a reading of 89.5, according to the median of 13 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Confidence among Italian households unexpectedly fell this
month to the lowest in at least 17 years as the recession damped
optimism, Istat said on Jan. 28. The  Bank of Italy  This month
cut its projection for 2013gross domestic product to a
contraction of 1 percent compared with a previous estimate of a
0.2 percent decline. Both the government and the central bank
expect a recovery in the second half of 2013 led by increasing
exports.  The Italian economy contracted at least 0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter of last year, three times the rate of the
previous three-month period, employers lobby Confindustria
predicted in a report this week. Still, the euro region’s third-
biggest economy has “touched the bottom of the recession,”
according to the report.  As Italians prepare to vote in the Feb. 24-25 general
elections,  Italy ’s economic and budget policies are up for
review.  After increasing levies and cut spending to tame the
sovereign debt crisis in his 14-month tenure, Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  said that reducing the tax burden now is not
“incoherent.” Pier Luigi Bersani, who leads a bloc of center-
left parties leading in all opinion polls, has proposed cutting
income tax rates on low and middle incomes while raising levies
on high earners. Former premier  Silvio Berlusconi  is pushing for
the abolition of a property tax on primary residence.  With assistance from {Giovanni Salzano} in  Rome . Editor: {Zoe
Schneeweiss}  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Lorenzo Totaro} in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  