-- J.C. Penney Aims to Win Trust With ‘Elsewhere’ Prices
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-01-31T21:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/j-c-penney-aims-to-win-trust-with-elsewhere-prices.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , having embraced
everyday low prices, is going to great lengths to show customers
its house-brand apparel is cheaper than rivals’.  Its latest gimmick in a series of sometimes confusing
approaches: compare the price of a T-shirt, say, to ones sold
“elsewhere.” And where is elsewhere? It’s not a place. It’s
the lowest of competitors’ prices, researched by J.C. Penney’s
merchants, on identical or materially similar items from
specialty stores, Kate Coultas, a spokeswoman, clarified in an
e-mail today.  Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson  is using the new price
displays and resuming some sales after the retailer’s shift to
everyday low prices led to three straight quarters of sales
declines steeper than 20 percent.  PVH Corp. (PVH)  CEO Manny Chirico,
whose company makes the Izod brand at the department-store
chain, said earlier this month that the everyday low pricing
strategy was hurting J.C. Penney’s basics business and that the
“value message” had to improve.  While it’s unusual to show comparison prices for private-
label items that aren’t actually sold at other retailers, the
strategy probably will help J.C. Penney, Barbara Kahn, a
marketing professor at the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton
School in Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview.  “Customers just didn’t know how to evaluate the value of
those goods, so I think what they’re learning is they need to
provide some kind of reference price,” she said.  J.C. Penney uses prices at competitors -- such as Gap Inc.
or J. Crew Group Inc. -- from the past 90 days in creating the
tag, Coultas said. On the Plano, Texas-based company’s website,
it shows the store’s price for women’s V-neck cotton T-shirts at
$6, compared with $19 elsewhere.  “These are items that our designers developed to be
competitive in the market with other core wardrobe items,” she
said. The company advertised the changes in an e-mail to
customers today.  J.C. Penney fell 1.8 percent to $20.63 at 3:48 p.m. in  New
York . The shares soared the most in more than a year yesterday
after the company said it would resume sales for holidays and
other key events.  -- Editor: Kevin Orland  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  