-- Jana Buys Copart Betting Car Salvager May Become REIT
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-01-31T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/jana-buys-copart-shares-on-reit-conversion-catalyst-potential.html
Jana Partners LLC, the activist
hedge fund run by  Barry Rosenstein , bought shares of  Copart (CPRT)  Inc.
in a bet the car auction company may convert into a tax-
effficient real estate investment trust.  Shares of Copart, which is based in Fairfield,  California 
and helps auto suppliers and insurance companies process and
sell salvage vehicles, are attractively priced and may rise
should the company convert to a REIT, Jana said in a fourth-
quarter letter to investors obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “We see an attractive asset trading at a reasonable price
with the potential for significant value to be unlocked were
CPRT to convert to a REIT,” Jana said in the letter, referring
to the ticker symbol under which Copart shares trade. “Our
research suggests that the vast majority of CPRT’s earnings can
be classified as qualifying real estate income.”  REITs, whose primary income streams are from real estate,
don’t pay federal income taxes. In exchange, they’re required by
the  Internal Revenue Service  to distribute at least 90 percent
of their taxable earnings to shareholders in the form of
dividends. Excluding mortgage REITs, property trusts have raised
record amounts of cash through equity and debt sales in the past
three years as investors seek yields higher than those offered
by securities such as U.S. government notes.  To qualify as a REIT, a company has to invest at least 75
percent of its assets in real estate and obtain 75 percent of
its gross income from rents or interest on mortgages from
financing property, according to the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts, a Washington-based trade group.  REIT Ranks  Charles Penner, a partner at Jana, declined to comment on
the letter.  Companies from prison operators to data centers are
expanding the ranks of tax-saving REITs. Earlier this month, CBS
Corp. shares surged the most in more than a year after the
company said it will convert its outdoor advertising unit into a
REIT and seek a buyer for the European and Asian parts of that
business.  Other companies that plan to become REITs include
Corrections Corp. of America, a Nashville, Tennessee-based
prison operator;  Equinix Inc. (EQIX) , a data-center operator based in
 Redwood City , California; Ryman Hospitality Properties Inc.,
based in Nashville and formerly known as Gaylord Entertainment
Co.; and Lamar Advertising Co. the  Baton Rouge , Louisiana-based
billboard owner.  The IRS has determined that billboards are real property,
opening the door for Lamar to become a REIT, Sean Reilly, the
Baton Rouge, Louisiana-based company’s chief executive officer,
said at a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. conference in September.  Offshore Drilling  Jana also bought shares of off-shore drilling contractor
 Noble Corp. (NE)  on the expectation that the Geneva-based company
will expand its fleet of ultra-deep-water rigs, which would
contribute to earnings growth of 60 percent this year and 50
percent in 2014, the firm said in the letter.  Jana said it urged QEP Resources Inc., the Denver-based
natural gas and oil exploration and production company, to form
a master-limited partnership, a move the company announced
earlier this month. QEP expects to sell a minority interest in
the partnership in an initial public offering and raise $300
million to $400 million in gross proceeds. An MLP is publicly
traded and taxed as a partnership.  “We established our position at an attractive cost basis
and worked throughout November and December to communicate to
management the optionality and value creation to be captured
through the successful execution of an MLP growth strategy,”
Jana said in the letter. “Much to our satisfaction, on January
7th, QEP announced its intention to form an MLP and to file
regulatory documents for an IPO by the second quarter of 2013.”  Jana Master Fund rose 23 percent last year, the firm said
in the letter. Jana Nirvana Fund rose 33 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  