-- Japan Police Arrest Men in Connection With Financier’s Death
-- B y   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2013-01-30T09:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/japan-police-arrest-man-in-connection-with-death-of-financier.html
Japanese police arrested two men in
connection with the deaths of financier Makoto Shimomi and a
woman believed to be his wife, whose bodies were found near
 Tokyo  almost two months after they disappeared.  Takaaki Kuwahara, 41, was arrested on Miyakojima, an island
in Okinawa, southern  Japan , yesterday on suspicion of abandoning
the bodies, said a spokesman for the Tokyo metropolitan police,
who spoke anonymously because of department policy. Tsuyoshi
Watanabe, 43, was detained on the island for the same reason
today, another police spokesman said. Watanabe received hospital
treatment after attempting suicide and is being flown to Tokyo,
the spokesman said.  Shimomi, 51, and his wife vanished on Dec. 7, and police
suspect Kuwahara and his associates buried them around that time
in a field in Kuki, Saitama prefecture, north of Tokyo, the
spokesman said. The bodies, which were uncovered two days ago,
showed signs of strangulation, police said.  Shimomi was a Japanese citizen who worked as a fund manager
in Switzerland for a company with headquarters in  Liechtenstein ,
the  Yomiuri newspaper  reported, without saying where it got the
information. The couple returned to Japan in November and were
scheduled to fly back to  Europe  on Dec. 14, the newspaper said.  Tests will be made on the female body to confirm whether it
is Shimomi’s wife, a police spokeswoman said yesterday.  The Nikkei newspaper reported today that before Shimomi
went missing, he was telling people that acquaintances invited
the couple to a party in Tochigi prefecture, north of Tokyo,
featuring a celebrity. Police suspect that the party never
happened and the acquaintances may have been involved in the
incident, leading to the arrest of Kuwahara, the newspaper
reported, without citing anyone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  