-- Japan’s Retail Sales Rose Less-Than-Forecast 0.1% in December
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-01-30T00:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/japan-s-retail-sales-rose-less-than-forecast-0-1-in-december.html
Japan ’s retail sales rose less than
economists forecast in December, indicating that consumer demand
remains weak in the world’s third-largest economy.  Sales rose 0.1 percent from November, when they fell 0.1
percent, the Trade Ministry said in  Tokyo  today. The  median
estimate  of eight economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for
a 0.4 percent gain. Sales rose 0.4 percent from a year earlier.  Weak consumer demand and a seventh monthly fall in exports
in December highlight the challenges facing Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe as he tries to defeat deflation and lead the country
out of recession. The smaller-than-forecast increase in retail
sales was even as colder-than-usual weather aided fuel sales.  “There are few positive signs for private consumption,”
 Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at  Itochu Corp. (8001)  in Tokyo,
said before the report. “Employment and income conditions
aren’t improving much as wages aren’t rising.”  The nation’s gross domestic product shrank at an annualized
3.5 percent pace in the third quarter of last year, the second
straight contraction and meeting the textbook definition of a
recession. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News is for a 0.6 percent decline in the three months
through December 2012, with a return to growth this quarter of
1.6 percent.  “Japan’s economy will probably head back to a gradual
recovery from this quarter as external demand rebounds, while
the government’s stimulus may lend support from the second
quarter,”  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo,
said before the report.  The government unveiled 10.3 trillion yen ($113 billion) in
fiscal stimulus earlier this month.  Wages dropped for a third straight month in November from
the previous year. Large companies cut winter bonuses by 2.95
percent in 2012 from the previous year to 778,996 yen, according
to a  report  released by the Keidanren, a business lobby group,
in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  