-- Japan Exchange Raises Profit Forecast by 36% on Volume
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-01-30T08:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/japan-exchange-raises-profit-forecast-by-36-on-volume.html
Japan Exchange Group Inc. (8697)  raised its
profit forecast by 36 percent as a rally in the nation’s share
market boosted trading volume for the company formed this month
from a merger of the nation’s two biggest bourses.  Net income for the year through March 31 will be 9.5
billion yen ($104 million), up from a previous projection of 7
billion yen, the exchange said in its first earnings report
since listing on Jan. 4. The bourse said it had 7.31 billion yen
in net income for the nine months through December.  Japan  Exchange, created this month to cut costs amid
slumping volume, has gotten a boost from the  Nikkei 225  Stock
Average’s best weekly winning streak since 1970. The daily
 volume  of shares traded on the first section of the  Tokyo  Stock
Exchange averaged 3.56 billion shares this month through
yesterday, almost double the 1.81 billion shares in the year-
earlier period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The results were within our expectations, but I think
some people like the fact that they raised their forecast,”
said Hiroshi Torii, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.
“The stock tends to be volatile because of its low liquidity.”  Japan Exchange jumped 5.9 percent to 5,500 yen today at the
close in Tokyo, while the Nikkei 225 rose 2.3 percent. The
exchange surged 42 percent since listing on Jan. 4.  Japanese stocks have rallied amid optimism Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s new government will press the  Bank of Japan (8301)  for
aggressive stimulus to beat deflation. The merger of Tokyo Stock
Exchange Group Inc. and Osaka Securities Exchange Co. was part
of a government plan to reinvigorate the market by forming a
national bourse trading stocks, commodities and other
securities.  Politics Driving Rally  “Politics is executing the nation’s policy, I welcome
that,”  Atsushi Saito , chief executive of the bourse, said
today. “So does the market, as you see in turnover and stock
levels.”  The cost of integrating trading systems will affect profit
next fiscal year, Saito said. The joining of the Osaka and Tokyo
trading platforms for cash equities will be completed on July 16
while derivatives trading should be unified by March 2014,
according to a statement. The systems integration is expected to
yield cost savings in the year ending in March 2015, rising to 7
billion in the following fiscal year.  ’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in 東京 at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  