-- Joy Says IMM Unit Has a ‘Lot of Upside’ as China Recovers
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-31T21:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/joy-says-imm-unit-has-a-lot-of-upside-as-china-recovers.html
Joy Global Inc. (JOY) , the largest maker
of underground mining machinery, said it’s “happy” with the
Chinese business it acquired last year and intends to improve
the unit’s product range.  Joy plans to enhance the capabilities of the equipment made
at its International Mining Machinery Holdings Ltd. unit as the
China’s economic growth recovers, Chief Executive Officer Mike Sutherlin said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “We see a lot of upside in the business,” he said. Joy,
which is based in  Milwaukee , is “happy with the IMM management
team and we are happy with the integration process.”  Sutherlin was responding to questions that have been raised
by analysts about IMM since  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  said it uncovered
false accounting at a Chinese unit. Caterpillar announced Jan.
18 it’s taking a $580 million writedown in the fourth quarter
because of the discrepancy it found at Zhengzhou Siwei
Mechanical & Electrical Manufacturing Co., which makes hydraulic
roof supports for underground mines.  Theoni Pilarinos, a Vancouver-based analyst for  Raymond
James , cut her recommendation on Joy to hold from buy on Jan. 28
on weaker demand and concerns about IMM following the
Caterpillar disclosure. Ted Grace, an analyst at Susquehanna
International Group LLP in  Boston , reduced his rating to hold
from buy on Jan. 23, partly because of “integration
challenges” at IMM and what he said was the potential for an
asset writedown.  Integration Challenges  Joy rose 1.3 percent to $62.17 in  New York .  Joy paid HK$4.54 billion ($585 billion) for New York-based
private equity firm Jordan Co.’s 41 percent in IMM in December
2011 and completed a HK$3.4 billion tender offer for the rest of
the shares in June.  Like Joy and IMM, Caterpillar acquired Siwei last year,
through its purchase of ERA Mining Machinery Ltd. Former ERA
directors Emory Williams and Li Rubo were founders of IMM.
Williams said Jan. 28 he was “shocked and dismayed” by
Caterpillar’s writedown.  Sutherlin declined to comment on ERA or parallels between
the two Chinese companies.  “We are not concerned with writedowns at this point,” he
said.  The tests and controls Joy used before it completed the
takeover of IMM, and the year-end audit conducted  afterwards,
“continue to confirm the reliability and accuracy of
information we’re getting out of IMM,” Sutherlin said. Joy
exercised a “significant amount of caution” regarding the
acquisition from the start, he said.  Integration challenges including issues of language and
geographic distance haven’t been out of the ordinary, he said.  “We see IMM as a really important part of our overall
business,” he said.  China , the largest miner of coal, is
showing “early signs of improvement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  