-- Ex-Coach Sandusky Loses Bid for Retrial, Sentence Change
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-01-30T19:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/judge-denies-sandusky-s-bid-for-new-trial-altered-sentence.html
Jerry Sandusky, the ex- Pennsylvania 
State University assistant football coach, failed to persuade a
state judge to throw out his conviction for child sexual abuse
or alter a sentence that may keep imprisoned for life.  Sandusky, sentenced to at least 30 years of confinement,
argued that he had insufficient time to prepare a defense and
that prosecutors didn’t produce enough evidence to support the
charges against him. Judge John Cleland in Bellefonte,
Pennsylvania, who oversaw the trial, rejected the ex-coach’s
arguments.  “This is simply not a case where trial counsel’s inability
to review before trial all of the discovery material produced
can be said to have resulted in a ‘structural defect’ that made
the lack of a fair trial a virtual certainty,” Cleland said
today in a written ruling.  Sandusky intends to appeal to the Superior Court of
Pennsylvania, one of two statewide intermediate appellate
courts, his attorney Norris Gelman said in a phone interview.
The action will be filed in about two weeks, he said.  Sandusky, 69, was found guilty in June of 45 counts of
abusing boys over a 15-year period. He is serving his sentence
in a maximum-security prison in Waynesburg, Pennsylvania.  Lawyers’ Arguments  The issues his attorneys raised in seeking a new trial
included Cleland’s denial of requests to delay the proceedings
and the judge’s alleged error of failing to dismiss the charges
for lack of specificity. The lawyers also argued that Cleland
should have instructed the jury on character evidence.  Cleland’s ruling rejected every one of Sandusky’s
contentions.  “The lack of specificity of dates has not affected the
defendant’s ability to present an alibi defense because alibi
has never been an issue,” Cleland wrote. “The defendant has
simply argued the offenses did not happen.”  At least six alleged victims have filed lawsuits over the
abuse.  Penn State  said in September that it plans to compensate
Sandusky’s victims with money from insurance policies and funds
set aside from interest on internal loans.  In a related case, former school President  Graham Spanier ,
 Gary Schultz , a former vice president and ex-Athletic Director
Tim Curley, were charged with perjury and endangering the
welfare of a child for their roles in allegedly covering up a
2001 sex-abuse allegation against Sandusky. A trial hasn’t been
scheduled in that case.  The Sandusky case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v.
Sandusky, CP-14-2422-CR-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre
County, Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 