-- Kazakh Wealth Fund to Cut Deposits in Foreign Banks by Half
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-01-30T14:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/kazakh-wealth-fund-to-cut-deposits-in-foreign-banks-by-half.html
Kazakhstan’s sovereign wealth fund
said it’s seeking to cut the share of deposits it has in foreign
banks and provide more liquidity to domestic lenders.  Banks hold 2.9 trillion tenge ($19 billion) for companies
owned by the Samruk-Kazyna fund, while 24 percent of that amount
is deposited in foreign banks, Deputy Chief Executive Officer
 Yelena Bakhmutova  told reporters in Almaty today. The fund plans
to cut the share in foreign banks to 10 percent of total
deposits in two years, she said.  Samruk-Kazyna is also seeking to unify and lower the rates
that banks charge its companies, Bakhmutova said.  Kazakhstan’s government has used Samruk-Kazyna to prop up
banks and companies rocked by a credit squeeze in 2008 and 2009
via, tapping $10 billion from the National Oil Fund. The
sovereign wealth fund accounts for a third of corporate deposits
with domestic lenders, Bakhmutova said in November, according to
its  website . Samruk-Kazyna controlled 17 percent of Kazakh bank
assets as of Jan. 1, through its stakes in  BTA Bank (BTA) ,  Alliance
Bank (ASBN)  and Temirbank.  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s largest lender, is complaining about
Kazakhstan’s planned restrictions on the movement of money via
foreign banks, Izvestia  reported  on Jan. 28, citing a letter
from CEO  German Gref  to Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov . Sberbank’s Kazakh unit, the seventh-largest by assets
in the central Asian nation, may lose 120 billion tenge ($795
million) of deposits because of the decision, the newspaper
said.  Sberbank’s Kazakh unit boosted assets by about 50 percent
last year to 732.4 billion tenge as of Jan. 1 from a year
earlier, according to the Kazakh central bank’s financial
oversight committee website. The state-run Russian lender
entered the Kazakh market by acquiring Almaty-based Texakabank
in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  