-- Kinder Morgan Buys Copano for $3.2 Billion in Shale Deal
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-01-30T21:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/kinder-morgan-to-buy-copano-for-3-2-billion-to-expand-in-shale.html
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) ,
the biggest U.S.  pipeline company , agreed to acquire Copano
Energy LLC for about $3.2 billion in stock to capitalize on
rising natural gas output from shale basins in  Texas ,  Oklahoma 
and  Wyoming .  Kinder Morgan Energy will pay the equivalent of $40.91 a
share, about 24 percent more than Copano’s closing price of
$33.13 on Jan. 29, the Houston-based company said today in a
statement. Including preferred shares and debt, the acquisition
is worth about $5 billion, according to the statement.  The deal adds Copano’s interests in about 6,900 miles
(11,100 kilometers) of pipelines and nine plants to Kinder
Morgan Energy’s 46,000 miles of lines, according to the
statement. Copano expands Kinder Morgan’s reach into the
gathering and processing business, which includes pipelines that
move gas from wells to delivery points and processing plants
that strip out valuable liquids such as ethane and propane.  Demand for gas will increase as power plants and factories
begin using more of the fuel, Kinder Morgan Energy Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Richard Kinder said at an analyst
conference in Houston.  “The biggest single handicap to that development is making
certain that we have adequate infrastructure to serve the
additional supply that’s coming online and connect it to the
additional demand,” Kinder said.  Texas Expansion  Copano, founded in 1992 by John Eckel, operates or owns a
stake in pipelines with 2.7 billion cubic feet a day of gas
throughput capacity.  The company agreed to pay 0.4563 of a share for each Copano
unit, Kinder Morgan Energy said. Partnership units trade like
stock. Parent company Kinder Morgan Inc. became the biggest
operator of pipelines to carry gas among U.S. states when it
acquired El Paso Corp. last year for $22.8 billion.  Copano’s (CPNO)  shares rose 15 percent to $38.03 at the close in
New York, the most since Oct. 13, 2008. Kinder Morgan Energy
Partners fell 2.3 percent to $87.61.  With the Copano purchase, Kinder Morgan will become sole
owner of a joint venture in the Eagle Ford shale in western
Texas. It also will enter three other so-called liquids-rich
areas in the Barnett Shale in northern Texas and in Oklahoma’s
Mississippi Lime and Woodford Shale, Kinder said in the
statement.  Joint Venture  The Eagle Ford joint venture began in 2009. Since then, the
Eagle Ford Shale’s capacity has grown to 964 million cubic feet
a day, from 47 million cubic feet a day, according to state
regulators.  Kinder Morgan and Copano have signed processing contracts
with producers such as  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)   The transaction is expected to be completed in the third
quarter of 2013, Kinder Morgan Energy said. Citigroup Inc. was
Kinder Morgan Energy’s adviser, while Barclays Plc and Jefferies
& Co. advised Copano Energy, according to the statement.  Kinder Morgan’s gas pipelines performed better than
expected last year, although some areas, including its pipelines
in the Eagle Ford Shale, suffered due to slower-than-expected
production, Chief Financial Officer Kimberly Dang said on a Jan.
16 conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  