-- Australian Dollar Drops as Stocks Fall; Kiwi Gains Versus Aussie
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-01-31T05:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/kiwi-is-near-3-month-high-versus-aussie-as-rbnz-sees-growth.html
Australia ’s dollar slid against most
of its 16 major counterparts as Asian stocks declined, sapping
demand for higher-yielding assets.  New Zealand’s dollar climbed toward a three-month high
versus the so-called Aussie after the smaller nation’s central
bank said it expects the economy to recover. Losses were limited
in the New Zealand and Australian currencies ahead of a Chinese
report tomorrow that economists predict will show manufacturing
expanded this month in the world’s second-largest economy.  “Risk sentiment is deteriorating on the back of stock
declines, weighing on the Australian and New Zealand dollars,”
said Kengo Suzuki, a currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho
Securities Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest bank by market
value.  Australia’s dollar dropped 0.3 percent to $1.0390 as of
3:58 p.m. in Sydney and is little changed this month. New
Zealand’s currency, known as the kiwi, fell 0.1 percent to 83.50
U.S. cents, paring a monthly gain to 0.8 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares lost 0.3 percent,
snapping a two-day gain.  The kiwi strengthened 0.1 percent to NZ$1.2442 per
Australian dollar. It reached NZ$1.2429 on Jan. 25, the
strongest since Oct. 9. Two-year  interest-rate swaps  in New
Zealand fell one basis point to 2.89 percent.  RBNZ Decision  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler said in
a statement that global growth is set to recover in 2013, after
leaving the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 2.5 percent.
The central bank “does not want to see financial stability or
inflation risks accentuated by housing demand getting too far
ahead of supply,” he said.  “This is the clearest indicator that the next move is up
for the cash rate as housing supply always responds with a
lag,”  Annette Beacher  and Alvin Pontoh, analysts in Singapore
at TD Securities Inc., wrote in a research note. “The not-
dovish stance taken by Wheeler took the markets by surprise.”  A  gauge  of house prices in the country climbed to a record
high in November and remained closer to that level last month,
according to data from the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index for  China ’s manufacturing
will probably rise to 51 in January, the highest since April,
from 50.6 last month, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing will
release the data tomorrow.  Aussie-Euro  The  yield  on Australia’s benchmark three-year note dropped
for the first time in five sessions, sliding four basis points
to 2.83 percent. The rate touched 2.9 percent yesterday, the
highest since Aug. 16.  The Australian dollar-U.S. currency pair “is now very much
being driven by moves” in the Australian dollar-euro rate, Ray Attrill, global co-head of currency strategy at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney, wrote in a report today. “Amid
evidence from our own internal flow data that foreign asset
managers continue to liquidate holding of Australian government
bonds, this is exposing renewed downside vulnerability” to the
Aussie against the greenback, he wrote.  Australia’s currency fell 0.3 percent to 76.58 euro cents
after earlier touching 76.48, the lowest since Dec. 20, 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  