-- Kiwi Falls Versus Peers Before N.Z. Reserve Bank Meets Tomorrow
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-01-30T05:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/kiwi-dollar-snaps-gain-before-n-z-reserve-bank-meets-tomorrow.html
The  New Zealand dollar  slid against
all its major counterparts amid speculation the  Reserve Bank 
will make comments aimed at curbing the currency’s strength as
officials set monetary policy at a meeting tomorrow.  The nation’s two-year  interest-rate swaps  fell for the
first time in a week even after data showed building approvals
surged to a 4 1/2-year high last month. Demand for Australia’s
dollar was supported as Asian stocks rose before the  Federal
Reserve  concludes a two-day policy gathering.  “New Zealand’s economy is relatively resilient, and policy
makers dislike a stronger currency because of its effect on
exports,” said  Satoshi Okagawa , a senior global markets analyst
in Singapore at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s
second-biggest financial group by market value. “The  New
Zealand  central bank may say something” to help limit the
kiwi’s advance, he said.  New Zealand’s dollar declined 0.4 percent to 83.59 U.S.
cents as of 4:39 p.m. in Sydney after rising 0.7 percent
yesterday. The so-called Aussie slid 0.1 percent to $1.0468
following a 0.6 percent gain.  Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard today said the
nation will hold an election on Sept. 14.  Statistics New Zealand said today that  permits  for
dwellings rose 9.4 percent from November to 1,566 in December,
the highest since May 2008. Economists had forecast a 6 percent
increase.  Kiwi’s Advance  The kiwi completed a fourth annual gain last year among a
basket of 10 developed-market currencies, according to a
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Index. It surged 26
percent in the four years through Dec. 31.  Two-year swap rates in New Zealand fell one basis points to
2.88 percent after reaching 2.91 percent yesterday, the most
since April 23. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand will probably
hold the official cash rate unchanged at 2.5 percent, all 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast.  Data on Jan. 18 showed the country’s consumer prices fell
0.2 percent in the three months ended Dec. 31 from the third
quarter, while the central bank expected a 0.1 percent increase.  “The recent gains in the New Zealand dollar exchange rate
and downside inflation surprises will compel the RBNZ to soften
its commentary on future inflation,”  Imre Speizer , a strategist
in Auckland at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , wrote in a research note
today.  Fed Meeting  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will push on with
purchases of $40 billion a month of mortgage bonds and $45
billion a month of Treasuries, according to a Bloomberg poll of
44 economists. The  Federal Open Market Committee  will renew its
commitment to the so-called quantitative easing program during
its meeting today, economists forecast.  The New York-based Conference Board said yesterday that its
gauge of U.S.  consumer confidence  slid in January to the lowest
since November 2011.  “Given the recent softening that we’ve seen in some of the
U.S. data, the likelihood is that the FOMC will be committed to
the QE policy for the time being,” said Greg Gibbs, a
Singapore-based senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “That will probably provide some support
for the Australian dollar.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares advanced 0.6 percent,
boosting demand for currencies linked to global growth. The
 yield  on Australia’s benchmark three-year note rose about one
basis point to 2.876 percent after earlier touching 2.898
percent, the highest since Aug. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  