-- KKR’s First Data Issues $785 Million of Bonds, Obtains Term Loan
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r   a n d   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2013-01-30T22:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/kkr-s-first-data-said-to-plan-785-million-bond-sale-term-loan.html
First Data  Corp., the credit-card
processor acquired by KKR & Co. in 2007, raised $785 million in
eight-year bonds and got a $258 million  term loan  to refinance
debt.  The company’s 11.25 percent notes yield 987 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The debt, which is non-callable for three
years, is rated B- by  Standard & Poor’s , the ratings company
said today.  First Data, which has lost money every  quarter  since the
buyout, will use proceeds to repurchase its 10.55 percent
payment-in-kind notes due 2015, the Atlanta-based company said
today in a regulatory filing.  “I don’t see any operational problems, they just have a
tremendous amount of debt,” Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS
Investments in New York who oversees $3 billion in fixed-income
funds, said in a telephone interview. “They’ve been struggling
under the burden of the buyout. Obviously the global recession
didn’t help.”  First Data had $22.7 billion in debt at the end of the
third quarter, more than the $22.4 billion owed immediately
after its LBO, Bloomberg data show.  September Sale  The company previously sold debt in September, offering an
additional $850 million of 6.75 percent securities issued the
previous month at 479 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. The bonds were quoted at 103.8
cents on the dollar to yield 6.12 percent yesterday, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc,  Wells
Fargo & Co ., Bank of America Corp. and Credit Suisse Group AG
managed the bond offering, Bloomberg data show.  First Data was taken private in September 2007 for $26
billion by KKR, the New York-based private-equity firm founded
byHenry R. Kravis and George R. Roberts. The deal was the
fifth-largest LBO by announced total value, the data show.  Chip Swearngan, a First Data spokesman, declined to comment
on the bond offering and referred to the company’s fourth-
quarter earnings release and conference call conducted
yesterday.  The company also got a term loan to refinance debt maturing
in 2014, according to a person with knowledge of that
transaction.  The loan, due in 2018, will pay interest at 5 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate with no
floor, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the information is private.  First Data sold the loan at par, compared with 99.75 cents
on the dollar proposed earlier today, the person said,
increasing proceeds for the company and reducing the yield to
investors. Credit Suisse Group AG arranged the financing, which
began trading late today, according to the person.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  