-- Knoedler Gallery Accused of Selling Fake Rothko Painting
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-30T21:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/knoedler-gallery-accused-of-selling-fake-rothko-painting.html
New York’s defunct Knoedler Gallery
was sued by a Liechtenstein-based family trust, which accused
the gallery of selling a forged painting by the late artist  Mark Rothko  for $5.5 million.  The Martin Hilti Family Trust, named for the founder of
construction tool firm Hilti AG, alleged in a complaint filed
yesterday in  Manhattan  that the gallery deliberately withheld
information about the painting that would have hurt the sale.  The gallery, on East 70th Street in Manhattan, has been
sued by other collectors who alleged they were duped into
purchasing fakes of works by noted artists, including paintings
purportedly by Rothko,  Jackson Pollock  and William de Kooning.
Knoedler unexpectedly closed in 2011 after 165 years.  The Hilti trust alleged in its complaint that it purchased
what was represented as a 1956 Rothko work“Untitled” in
November 2002. The gallery and its chairman  Michael Hammer  and
director Ann Freedman falsely described the painting as coming
from a previously undiscovered cache of masterworks owned by an
unknown collector, described in the complaint as “Mr. X.”  “At all relevant times, defendants knew that the Mr. X
story was untrue,” lawyers for the Hilti trust said in the
complaint. “Indeed, defendants privately equated Mr. X to the
fictional ‘goose that laid the golden egg.’”  The gallery abruptly closed after the scheme and Freedman
was asked to resign and served as a “scapegoat,” according to
the complaint  “The Hilti complaint rehashes the same baseless claims
contained in the prior lawsuits,” said Charles D. Schmerler, a
lawyer for the gallery and Hammer, in an e-mailed statement.
“We plan to aggressively litigate this case and expect to see
Knoedler and Mr. Hammer fully vindicated.”  The case is The Martin Hilti Family Trust, 12-cv-0657, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Manhattan federal court at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  