-- Netflix CEO Says Won’t Retreat From SEC on Facebook Posts
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-01-31T18:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/netflix-ceo-says-won-t-retreat-from-sec-on-facebook-posts.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief Executive Officer
Reed Hastings said he will keep posting on Facebook as the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission weighs whether to file a
lawsuit over a disclosure he made on the social network.  “I wasn’t setting out to set an example. I was sharing
something to these 200,000 people,” Hastings said yesterday in
an interview at Bloomberg’s  New York  headquarters. “I’m not
going to back down and say it’s inappropriate. I think it’s
perfectly fine. Sometimes you’re just the example that triggers
the debate.”  Hastings, 52, stirred controversy over SEC disclosure
guidelines when he wrote in a July 3  Facebook Inc. (FB)  post that
viewing on Netflix’s video-streaming service had “exceeded 1
billion hours for the first time” in June.  In December, Hastings and Netflix each received a Wells
Notice, indicating SEC staff had determined sufficient
wrongdoing occurred to warrant a civil claim against Hastings
and his  Los Gatos , California-based streaming-video company for
allegedly violating selective disclosure rules. The SEC is
weighing whether to bring a case.  The incident, which could result in sanctions, has led to
calls for the SEC to broaden its rules to allow social media
such as Facebook and Twitter to be used to communicate to
investors. Hastings said in December that posting to his
Facebook contingent of 200,000 followers “is very public.” He
also argued that the information wasn’t material, since Hastings
had said on his  company blog  several weeks earlier usage was
approaching 1 billion hours a month.  No Example  “Absolutely I am,” Hastings said when asked yesterday
whether he’d post again on the social-media website. “Why not?
It will sit before the commissioners for a while and then, at
their leisure they’ll consider it, which could be anytime over a
year.”  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment.  Hastings, who sits on the board of  Menlo Park , California-
based Facebook, pointed out that he disclosed the Wells notice
on the social network. In that instance, Netflix also made a
regulatory filing. In the interview yesterday, he stopped short
of saying he would post material information on Facebook without
taking the additional step of a regulatory filing.  SEC staff determined that the July post violated  Regulation
FD , which requires public disclosure, such as through a press
release on a widely disseminated news or wire service, or by
“any other non-exclusionary method” that provides broad public
access.  ‘Small Guy’  “Reg FD was about protecting me from telling  Carl Icahn 
something special, the big investor, that not everyone else
got,” Hastings said. “This was me talking to 200,000 Facebook
followers; it is letting the small guy in on the information.”  Netflix has garnered support from former SEC commissioner
 Joseph Grundfest , who filed an amicus brief with the commission
this week. Hastings’s posting wasn’t material or selective, and
doesn’t violate Reg FD, he wrote. Guidelines that allow
companies to post material information on their websites but not
on Facebook are outdated because they fail to account for “the
evolution of social media,” and should be addressed through
rule-making, he said.  “It makes little or no sense” to take legal action
against Netflix, wrote Grundfest, now a Stanford Law School
professor. “The proposed enforcement action is a questionable
allocation of limited agency resources.”  Netflix fell 1.7 percent to $164.85 at 1:24 p.m. in New
York. As of yesterday, the shares had risen 81 percent in 2013.
Last week, the company reported a surprise fourth-quarter profit
on subscriber gains that exceeded estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  