-- New Zealand Holds Benchmark Interest Rate at Record-Low 2.5%
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-01-30T20:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/new-zealand-holds-benchmark-interest-rate-at-record-low-2-5-.html
New Zealand’s central bank extended
a period of record-low borrowing costs that began almost two
years ago as a rising currency and sluggish domestic demand
contain inflation. The local dollar advanced.  “We expect economic growth to strengthen over the coming
year, reducing spare capacity and bringing inflation slowly back
towards the 2 percent target midpoint,” Reserve Bank Governor
Graeme Wheeler said in a statement released today in Wellington,
after keeping the official cash rate at 2.5 percent.  Wheeler is betting that slow economic growth and benign
inflation don’t justify a rate cut because reconstruction from
earthquakes and housing investment will boost domestic demand
later this year. The New Zealand dollar’s 7.5 percent gain the
past two years has made imports cheaper, keeping annual
inflation under his 2 percent target.  “The high exchange rate is set to provide more of the
necessary monetary tightening, leaving less work for interest
rates,” Dominick Stephens, chief New Zealand economist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Auckland, said ahead of the statement.
He expects no change in the cash rate until December.  New Zealand’s dollar strengthened, buying 83.41 U.S. cents
at 9:03 a.m. in Wellington compared with 83.21 cents immediately
before the statement.  Today’s rate decision was forecast by all 16 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. Seven predict a rate rise this year and
nine see no change until 2014.  Extended Pause  The central bank has left the benchmark borrowing cost
unchanged since March 2011 to allow the economy to recover after
the nation’s deadliest quake in 80 years. The February 2011
temblor struck Christchurch, New Zealand’s third-largest city,
and the surrounding Canterbury province, killing 185 people and
closing the central city.  Gross domestic product increased 0.2 percent in the three
months through September, according to a government report last
month. Consumer prices fell in the fourth quarter from the July-
September period and rose 0.9 percent in the year through
December, a Jan. 18 report showed.  Wheeler’s annual inflation target is the midpoint of a 1
percent to 3 percent range.  Still, construction expanded the most in 10 years in the
third quarter, boosted by rebuilding in Christchurch.
Construction costs rose 10 percent in the city and the
surrounding Canterbury region in the year ended Dec. 31,
compared with the 3.1 percent pace across the whole country.  Fletcher Building Ltd. (FBU) , the nation’s biggest supplier of
construction materials, is the best performer this year on the
benchmark NZX 50 stock index, gaining 12 percent amid
predictions of rising earnings from earthquake-related work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  