-- NFL Sees Modest Revenue Growth as Sponsors Stay Shaky on Economy
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-01-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/nfl-sees-modest-revenue-growth-as-sponsors-stay-shaky-on-economy.html
The  National Football League ’s 32
teams expect modest revenue growth this year due to a sluggish
economy and uncertainty over government tax and spending
decisions, said  Eric Grubman , the NFL’s executive vice president
and president of NFL Business Ventures.  Grubman, a former managing partner at Goldman Sachs & Co.,
said the league’s fortunes will improve in 2014 when a contract
extension increases television revenue. The NFL’s TV revenue
will rise to an average $7 billion annually through 2022 from an
average $5.1 billion under current agreements.  While the  NFL  remains the U.S.’s most popular sport -- 31
of the 32 most-watched television shows in the fall of 2012 were
NFL games, and the league sold 98 percent of its available
tickets during the regular season -- companies and their
employees are careful with their advertising and discretionary
spending and have been especially sensitive to ticket prices.  “We had modest growth last year, we’ve had very modest
growth for the past couple years,” Grubman said in a telephone
interview. “When companies are comfortable with the risks and
what they see when looking over the horizon, they make
investments and take on debt. When they are worried or they
don’t know what is over the horizon they spot cash on their
balance sheet and they pay stuff off, and they don’t buy what
they don’t need.”  U.S. companies are beating analysts’ quarterly sales
estimates at the highest rate in 1 1/2 years, with 67 of the 175
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reporting fourth-
quarter results as of Jan. 29 exceeding analysts’ average
revenue projections. That’s the highest percentage since the
second quarter of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Companies have lots of cash, but they are not throwing it
at sponsorships and their employees are not throwing it at club
seats and tickets,” he said. “Everybody in this economy is
feeling a little bit squeezed.”  Tickets Flat  Grubman wouldn’t specifically project NFL revenue for the
current fiscal year, which ends March 31, 2013.  Ticket revenue has been flat in recent years, with average
prices increasing 7.2 percent annually from 2004 through 2008,
and 2.1 percent from 2008 through 2012, according to  Team
Marketing Report . The average ticket price was $78.38 in 2012,
the company said.  The  Baltimore Ravens  haven’t increased ticket prices since
2009 and their opponents in the Feb. 3 Super Bowl, the  San
Francisco 49ers , haven’t increased prices since 2011, according
to the teams.  “Our local revenue has grown modestly,” said  Baltimore
Ravens  President Dick Cass. “We’ve grown local radio and
television in terms of advertising revenue. We sold all of our
tickets and suites. We have some increases built into existing
sponsorship agreements.”  Washington Uncertainty  “All the uncertainty in Washington has a negative impact
on the economy and that affects all businesses including ours,”
Cass said.  The  U.S. recession , which began in December 2007 and ended
in June 2009 according to the  National Bureau of Economic
Research , has hit ticket revenue the hardest.  Although corporate profits have steadily increased, with
the  S&P 500  rising  13.4 percent  in 2012 and the  U.S. economy 
adding 1.84 million jobs, reducing the  unemployment rate  to 7.8
percent from 8.5 percent, fans are still watching their wallets
-- and that’s kept downward pressure on ticket prices.  “Our ticket prices have been somewhat restrained in the
past few years. We think it’s likely you’ll see that restraint
continued,” Grubman said. “We see the club seat product as
being a product that is tougher around the league, and folks are
thinking about how to deal with that. We see clubs having more
price points.”  Uneven Recovery  The economic recovery hasn’t been even throughout the
country, allowing some franchises to recover more quickly.  The  Houston Texans  (12-4), who won the AFC South Division
this past year, announced last week that they will increase
ticket prices 9.8 percent to an average $86.39 in 2013.  For the 49ers, who are building a new stadium, team
President Gideon Yu said the franchise is having a “fantastic
year,” though he declined to say how much revenue has
increased.  Yu, who earned an engineering degree at  Stanford University 
and an MBA at  Harvard University  before serving as the chief
financial officer at YouTube Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB) , said the
NFL’s biggest concern should be ensuring the in-stadium
experience exceeds what fans can get at home watching high-
definition television.  New stadiums have to offer paperless, cashless environments
and be at the forefront of tomorrow’s advances in mobile and
other technologies, he said.  While the league waits for television and ticket revenue to
grow, Grubman is looking to the league’s business partners and
entrepreneurs to provide the next great innovation.  More Viewers  Some innovations that would drive revenue would be
technology that allows television networks to count as viewers
people at bars and parties where large groups of people watch
games. This would increase the value of the NFL’s television
contracts.  “I believe it’s vastly undercounted,” Grubman said of the
NFL’s television audience.  Other areas of possible growth include enhancing the
league’s Internet streaming of games to international markets,
and enhanced use of statistics that could make the game more of
an intellectual pursuit, with fans getting real-time stats on
players’ speed, acceleration and other measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in  Washington  at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  