-- Nintendo-Canon Benefit as Weaker Yen Masks Apple Competition
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a ,   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-01-30T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/nintendo-raises-full-year-net-income-forecast-on-weaker-yen.html
Japan ’s weakening currency is
boosting the earnings outlook at  Nintendo (NTDOY)  Co. and  Canon Inc. (7751) ,
helping them counter slowing sales of video-game machines and
compact cameras as consumers turn to smartphones and tablets.  Nintendo, creator of the Mario and Zelda game franchises,
doubled its annual net income forecast yesterday, while cutting
the sales outlook for its new Wii U console and 3DS handheld
player. Canon, the world’s largest camera-maker, may increase
 net income  14 percent to 255 billion yen ($2.8 billion yen) this
year, even as compact-camera sales fall.  The yen declined to the weakest level against the U.S.
dollar in 2½ years, boosting the value of Japanese exporters’
overseas earnings, after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  last week announced a
switch to Federal Reserve-style, open-ended easing.  Nintendo (7974) ,
which got about 80 percent of revenue from abroad last fiscal
year, had a foreign-exchange gain of 22.2 billion yen in the
nine months ended Dec. 31.  “A weaker yen is a tailwind to Japanese manufacturers,”
said Tetsuro Ii, president of Commons Asset Management Inc. in
 Tokyo . “It’s a positive trend after Japanese companies
weathered the global economic slowdown and a super-strong yen by
cutting costs and restructuring.”  Nintendo Forecast  Nintendo, the world’s largest maker of video-game machines,
raised its net income forecast to 14 billion yen from 6 billion
yen. The forecast compares with the 6.6 billion-yen average of
16 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company is aiming for operating profit of at least 100
billion yen in the year starting April 1, President Satoru Iwata
said yesterday. The yen has depreciated more than 5 percent
against the dollar in the past month, boosting the repatriated
value of Japanese exporters’ overseas earnings and assets.  “We raised our profit forecast because the yen weakened,”
Iwata said.  At the same time, the Kyoto-based company said it expects
an operating loss of 20 billion yen for the year ending March
31, compared with a previous estimate for a 20 billion-yen
profit. Nintendo cut its full-year forecast for Wii U sales to 4
million units from 5.5 million and its outlook for 3DS players
to 15 million units from 17.5 million.  Wii U Sales  Nintendo is selling the Wii U, the industry’s first major
new console since 2006, at a loss as Iwata counts on software
sales to revive  earnings  after the company’s first annual loss
in three decades last fiscal year. Iwata is under pressure to
replicate the success of the original Wii after the 3DS failed
to meet sales targets as gamers shift to mobile devices from
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   Sales of the Wii U haven’t been as strong as expected after
its release last year, Iwata said. Nintendo sold 12.7 million
3DS players and 3.06 million Wii U machines in the nine months
ended Dec. 31.  The company cut its full-year sales estimate for Wii U
software to 16 million units from 24 million and trimmed its 3DS
software sales to 50 million from 70 million.  “These are horrible sets of numbers,” Amir Anvarzadeh, a
Singapore-based manager for Asia equity sales at  BGC Partners
Inc. (BGCP) , said in an e-mail.  Nintendo’s U.S.-traded shares fell as much as 8 percent to
$12.15 in  New York  trading, the biggest decline in a year. The
stock fell 2.4 percent to close at 9,350 yen in  Osaka  yesterday
before the earnings announcement.  U.S. retail sales of video-game software, hardware and
accessories declined 22 percent from a year earlier to $3.21
billion in December, according to NPD Group Inc.  Canon Profit  Global smartphone sales will probably rise 28 percent this
year to 836 million units, according to  IHS Inc. (IHS) ’s iSuppli. The
researcher expects tablet shipments to reach 340 million by
2016, compared with about 120 million last year.  Canon, the maker of PowerShot cameras, generated about 80
percent of sales  outside Japan  last year. Operating profit, or
sales minus the cost of goods sold and administrative expenses,
will probably rise 27 percent this year to 410 billion yen. The
weaker yen will bolster the figure by 109 billion yen, while
sales will get a 203 billion-yen boost, the company said.  The earnings estimates were “conservative,” Chief
Financial Officer Toshizo Tanaka said at a press briefing.  The Tokyo-based company said compact-camera sales will
probably drop 7 percent this year to 17 million. Sales of models
with interchangeable lens are expected to rise 12 percent to 9.2
million.  Revenue at the consumer-products unit, which makes cameras,
lenses and inkjet printers, will probably rise 12 percent to
1.58 trillion yen this year, Canon said.  The office-products
division , Canon’s biggest by revenue, will probably post a 7.7
percent increase after an 8.4 percent decline last year.  “Canon and Nintendo are beneficiaries of a weaker yen,”
said  Mitsuo Shimizu , a Tokyo-based analyst at  Iwai Cosmo
Holdings Inc. (8707)  “Nintendo is in a tough situation, as its main
business is slumping. In contrast, Canon is boosting its main
printer and high-end camera businesses, even as sales of compact
digital cameras fall.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  