-- Nordea Cost-Cutting Plan Signals 940 More Bank Jobs to Be Lost
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-01-30T09:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/nordea-cost-cutting-plan-signals-940-more-bank-jobs-to-be-lost.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  Chief Executive
Officer Christian Clausen signaled he still needs to cut as many
as 940 more jobs at Scandinavia’s biggest lender to reach a goal
of lowering headcount by at least 10 percent.  “We have reduced our staff by 8 percent, we have come
far,” Clausen said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
Francine Lacqua today. “From now on it’s more like becoming
more efficient and thereby reducing staff where it’s possible.
The number of manual transactions is going down. Our customers
are using the Internet.”  The Nordic region’s biggest bank said today net income in
the fourth quarter rose 7 percent after it booked 18 percent
more in income from fees and commissions to its clients. Profit
for the period reached 840 million euros ($1.13 billion), also
after loan losses slipped 7 percent, the bank said.  The number of full-time employees at the bank dropped to
31,466 in the fourth quarter from 33,068 a year earlier,
according to today’s report. “We will continue to increase cost
efficiency by approximately 3 percent annually in order to
largely maintain flat costs going forward,” the bank said.  Nordea’s total operating costs slipped 0.6 percent in 2012
from the year earlier, it said.  The bank plans to “reduce staff by about 2 to 3 percent
more in the coming two to three years,” Clausen said.
“Distribution is changing because customers are changing
behavior.”  Lagging Rivals  The pan-Nordic bank, which is lagging behind its Swedish
rivals Svenska Handelsbanken AB and Swedbank AB in boosting
capital buffers, said today it managed to increase profit even
as demand for banking services was “constrained” by a tough
economic climate.  Nordea repeated its dividend policy and will pay out 44
percent of profit to shareholders. Swedish rival Swedbank, the
second-best capitalized major lender in the European Union as of
the third quarter, today raised its dividend payout ratio to 75
percent from 50 percent.  Nordea reported a core Tier 1 capital ratio -- a measure of
financial strength -- of 13.1 percent of its risk-weighted
assets for the end of 2012, up from 12.2 percent at the end of
September. Swedbank’s core Tier 1 ratio was 17.4 percent.  Both exceeded the 10 percent minimum requirement that
 Sweden ’s biggest banks will need to meet this year and also
topped the 12 percent floor that becomes effective in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  