-- Occidental Ripe for Icahn-Like Treatment as Stock Slides
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l ,   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-01-30T21:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/occidental-ripe-for-icahn-like-treatment-as-stock-slides.html
Activist investors from  Carl Icahn 
to  Daniel Loeb  are amassing stakes in energy companies to
replace directors and spin off assets dragging down valuations
amid record oil prices.  Shareholder interventions have been staged for U.S. oil and
natural gas producers with more than $100 billion in collective
market value since the beginning of 2012 as energy stocks failed
to match the surge in crude prices, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Targets that included  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ,
 Hess Corp. (HES) ,  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR)  and  SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD)  have been
censured by unsatisfied investors for everything from sloppy
financial controls to self-dealing by executives.  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , the largest oil producer in the
continental U.S., may be next in line for a boardroom makeover,
Deutsche Bank AG said. With a market value of $69 billion, Los
Angeles-based Occidental would be more than triple the size of
any of the energy producers rocked by activism in the past year.
 Nabors Industries Ltd. (NBR)  and  Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT)  also
are vulnerable as the implications of “poor decisions” by
managers during the last decade become clear, said Scott Gruber,
an analyst at Sanford Bernstein & Co.  “Prominent investors are saying enough of the overreach,
enough of the constant overspending, enough of the entrenched
board memberships,”  Mark Hanson , an equity analyst at
Morningstar Inc. in Chicago, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “It’s time to start optimizing your assets.”  Energy Underperformers  Oil and gas stocks have underperformed crude for the past
half decade, failing to capture most of the upside of global
demand that is escalating faster than production. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Energy Index of 43 companies returned 26 percent
during the 2007-2011 period, less than half the 76 percent
increase in Brent crude futures, the benchmark price for two-
thirds of the world’s oil.  In the past year, investor activism from Icahn, Loeb’s
Third Point LLC, Jana Partners LLC and TPG-Axon Capital
Management LP drove Chesapeake to remake its board, Murphy to
spin off its filling-station business, and CVR Energy Inc. and
Marathon Petroleum Corp. to form master-limited partnerships.
Transocean Ltd., SandRidge and Hess are currently weighing
demands from investors that have questioned company strategy.  After Murphy announced plans for the spinoff of its retail
fuel business, Deutsche Bank analyst  Paul Sankey  said in an
October 17 note to investors that Hess, Occidental and
ConocoPhillips may be the next targets.  Oxy Discount  Occidental’s stock has lost 20 percent of its value since
Stephen I. Chazen succeeded Ray Irani as CEO in May 2011. During
that same period, the benchmark U.S. oil price has been little
changed. The company has been dogged by delays and ballooning
costs at its California oilfields, prompting Chazen to institute
cost-saving measures such as simplified well designs and cheaper
drilling methods.  Chazen told analysts and investors in a Jan. 8 presentation
that those efforts will save the company as much as $450 million
in 2013 and reduced drilling costs by 15 percent compared to
last year.  “Occidental has issues that it wasn’t facing previously
with their cost structure and growth potential,” said Brian Youngberg, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis who
rates Occidental a buy and doesn’t own shares. “The steps
they’ve taken in the past few weeks have calmed those fears, but
investors want to see whether or not the cuts are actually
proceeding.”  Too Integrated  Occidental, which gets about 75 percent of sales from oil
and gas wells and the rest from chemicals and pipelines, trades
at a discount to some peers because investors don’t recognize it
either as a so-called integrated company such as  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  or a pure-play energy producer such as  Apache Corp. (APA) , Duane Grubert, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group in Stamford,
Connecticut, said in an interview.  Occidental would be more highly prized if it split into
international and domestic businesses, Grubert said.  “Investors want pure plays, companies operating in the
sectors they’re interested in,”  Louis Meyer , a New York-based
special situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc., said in an
interview yesterday. “It underscores that managing all these
different businesses gets to be problematic.”  Melissa Schoeb, a spokeswoman for Occidental, declined to
comment on potential interest from investor activists, board
compensation or possible restructuring of the company.
Occidental rose 0.3 percent to $85.32 at the close in New York.  Best Compensated  In 2011, Occidental’s directors, which include former U.S.
Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham and former U.S. diplomat  Edward Djerejian , were the most highly compensated among the company’s
peers, including 16 focused on exploration and production and
five integrated energy companies on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, according to Bloomberg calculations based on the
companies’ latest proxy filings.  Excluding directors who didn’t serve the entire year,
Occidental’s 11 non-executive board members were paid more than
$630,000 each in 2011, more than double the average among the 21
other energy companies on the S&P 500 that explore for and
produce oil and natural gas.  Sixty-one percent of Occidental’s oil and natural gas
production in the third quarter came from U.S. operations, where
it’s the largest onshore producer outside of Alaska. Of that,
more than two thirds was oil or other petroleum liquids,
according to the company. Most of Occidental’s U.S. output, the
equivalent of 469,000 barrels a day of crude, comes from Texas
and California.  Unlock Value  Among providers of oilfield services, Nabors and
Weatherford are the most likely candidates for activist
intercession, Sanford Bernstein’s Gruber said.  “It’s a bit of a transition from the boom times of the
2000’s where a rising tide lifted all boats,” Gruber said.
“Poor decisions by management teams during the 2000’s are now
coming to roost, and they’re having to deal with them. Activists
are looking at certain companies where they believe they can
unlock value based on righting the ship.”  Nabors, the world’s largest land-rig contractor, is the
cheapest service stock in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Energy
Index, with an enterprise value that’s 4.3 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization over the past
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dennis Smith , a
spokesman at Nabors, did not immediately return phone and e-mail
messages seeking comment.  Pamplona Filing  Pamplona Capital Partners III LP, Nabor’s largest
shareholder, said in a filing Jan. 23 it held talks with
management and has become “increasingly concerned about the
underperformance” of the stock. Nabors was the second-worst
performer in the Philadelphia Oil Service Index in 2012, falling
17 percent.  The filing shows Pamplona, which is run by former Nabors
board member Alexander Knaster, “may be preparing to take an
activist role,”  Bill Herbert , an analyst at Simmons & Co. in
Houston wrote the next day in a note to investors.  While the company is in the midst of selling non-core
assets, including stakes in  oil fields  and an air-travel
logistics unit, the sales process has gone slower than hoped,
CEO Tony Petrello said in October.  Weatherford, the world’s fourth-largest diversified oil
service company with 523 subsidiaries according to its latest
annual report, is so big that a shareholder activist might push
the company to break itself up as a way to boost value, said  Joe
Hill , an analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston. Karen
David-Green, a spokeswoman for Weatherford, did not return phone
and e-mail messages seeking comment.  ‘Fertile Candidate’  “Weatherford on paper certainly looks like it’d be a
fairly fertile candidate for shareholder activism,” Jeff
Spittel, an analyst at Global Hunter Securities in Houston, said
in a telephone interview.  Weatherford has been working to clear up a series of tax
accounting errors over several quarters, so it may be too late
for an activist to jump in and make accounting improvements,
Spittel said. And it’s probably too early to judge whether there
are execution issues that an activist shareholder might push to
improve, he said.  The company was the worst performer in the Philadelphia Oil
Service Index in 2012, falling 24 percent. Shares rose 1.8
percent to $13.36 at the close in New York.  The most recent U.S. company targeted for revamp was Hess,
the iconic East Coast fuel-oil distributor with a portfolio of
assets as far afield as the North Sea and Malaysia. Billionaire
investor  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Associates LP this week
criticized the company’s “illogical” assembly of assets and
“appalling capital allocation.”  Remaking Hess  In a letter yesterday, Elliott urged Hess to split its U.S.
and international oil businesses into separate companies, and
named five candidates for a board that the investor said has the
lowest rate of director independence and the least oil
experience among industry peers.  Hess’ $20.6 billion in capital spending during the past
three years was accompanied by a 2.8 percent decline in
production, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  On Jan. 9, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Hess
vowed to “significantly reduce overall expenditures” this
year. Three weeks later, the company announced its plan to quit
the refining business and sell its fuel-storage network before
disclosing Elliott’s intention to invest more than $800 million
in Hess’s stock.  ‘Illogical Configuration’  “Hess’s illogical, difficult-to-value configuration of
assets is evidence of a lack of focus that breeds poor
execution, encourages appalling capital allocation, and results
in perpetual undervaluation by the market,” Elliott said in a
letter published on its website yesterday.  Hess Corp. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Hess
said today he wants to keep the company’s Bakken shale and
offshore assets, despite calls from Paul Singer’s Elliott
Management Corp. to sell or spin off businesses. Hess will
respond soon to its second-largest shareholder’s comments, the
CEO told investors and analysts on an earnings conference call.  Hess reported a $566 million profit for the fourth quarter
today, compared with a $131 million net loss for the same period
a year earlier, when it recorded costs to close a refinery.
Excluding one-time items, per-share profit was a penny less than
analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Before today, Hess has gained 16 percent since Elliott’s
intention to acquire a stake was disclosed on Jan. 28, the
biggest two-day gain since 2008. Hess fell 0.3 percent to $67.88
at the close in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  