-- Oil Rises to Four-Month High as Fed Keeps Asset Buying
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-01-30T20:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/oil-steady-as-inventories-gain-economy-unexpectedly-shrinks.html
Oil rose to the highest level in
more than four months as the  Federal Reserve  maintained an
asset-buying program to boost the economy.  Oil advanced for a third day and the dollar weakened
against the euro after the Fed said at the conclusion of a two-
day meeting that it will keep purchasing securities at the rate
of $85 billion a month. Crude headed for the biggest monthly
gain since August as the Labor Department may say on Feb. 1 that
hiring increased in January.  “There’s increasing confidence about the economy,
expectations for a positive jobs number Friday, and the Fed said
it’s going to continue with stimulus,” said Jason Schenker,
president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based
energy consultant. “Oil is moving higher because there’s reason
to be optimistic about the economy.”  West  Texas  Intermediate for March delivery rose 37 cents,
or 0.4 percent, to $97.94 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement since Sept. 14. Prices are up
6.7 percent this month. Trading was 1.7 percent below the 100-
day average for the time of day at 2:40 p.m.  Brent for March settlement added 54 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to $114.90 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Trading was 9 percent above the 100-day average.  The Fed asset purchases will remain divided between $40
billion a month of mortgage-backed securities and $45 billion a
month of  Treasury securities .  Labor Market  The central bank repeated that the purchases will continue
“if the outlook for the labor market does not improve
substantially.” It also left unchanged its statement that it
planned to hold its target interest rate near zero as long as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and inflation remains
below 2.5 percent.  The euro rose as much as 0.7 percent to $1.3587, surpassing
the $1.35 level for the first time in more than a year. A
stronger euro and weaker dollar boost dollar-denominated oil’s
appeal as an alternative investment.  “A weakening U.S. dollar will provide some support to
crude prices,” said Tom Doremus, an analyst at Tradition Energy
in Stamford,  Connecticut .  The Labor Department may say on Feb. 1 that the  U.S.
economy  added 165,000 nonfarm jobs in January, up from 155,000 a
month ago, according to a Bloomberg survey. The U.S. is the
world’s biggest oil-consuming country.  Mideast Conflict  Oil also climbed as  Agence France-Presse  reported Israeli
jets attacked a weapons-transport convoy near Syria’s border
with Lebanon.  The AFP report, citing people it didn’t identify by name,
comes three days after Israel’s Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  issued warnings about the dangers posed by Syria’s
chemical-weapons arsenal in a country suffering a civil war.  “It reminds us that the geopolitical risk factors are
still high,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the
Price Futures Group in  Chicago .  Oil fell earlier as U.S. inventories gained more than twice
as much as expected last week as the nation’s economy
unexpectedly shrank in the fourth quarter.  Stockpiles increased 5.95 million barrels in the week ended
Jan. 25 to 369.1 million, the Energy Information Administration,
the Energy Department’s statistics arm, reported. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expected a gain of 2.5 million.  “This is a bearish report for crude oil and is further
evidence that the U.S. crude-oil market is not physically
tight,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York.  Cushing Inventories  Inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
New York oil futures, grew 0.6 percent to 51.7 million barrels.  Oil flows through the Seaway pipeline, which runs from
Cushing to the  Gulf Coast , were curtailed last week by
electrical problems at the line’s Jones Creek, Texas, terminal.  The expanded 400,000-barrel-a-day Seaway, from 150,000, was
limited to bringing 175,000 barrels a day to Jones Creek,  Rick Rainey , a Houston-based spokesman for pipeline co-owner
 Enterprise Product Partners LP (EPD) , said Jan. 23.  “Expectations that the expanded Seaway pipeline would
reduce inventories at Cushing are not bearing fruit here,”
Evans said.  The EIA also reported that U.S.  refineries operated  at an
85 percent rate, up 1.4 percentage points from a week earlier.
Analysts expected a drop of 0.35 percentage point.  U.S. gross domestic product dropped at a 0.1 percent annual
rate last quarter, weaker than any forecast in a Bloomberg
survey.  “The GDP number is a big surprise,” said Tariq Zahir, a
New York-based commodity fund manager at Tyche Capital Advisors.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 434,647
contracts as of 2:52 p.m. It totaled 649,676 contracts
yesterday, 31 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.55 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  