-- Oil-Service Companies Plunge as Saipem Lowers Forecast
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-01-30T17:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/oil-services-plunge-in-europe-as-saipem-cuts-earnings-forecast.html
Saipem SpA (SPM)  plunged a record 34
percent in Milan trading after Europe’s largest oil-service
provider cut profit forecasts and an Italian regulator
investigated a share sale made before yesterday’s statement.  The  stock plummeted  10.44 euros to close at 20.01 euros at
the close, valuing the Milan-based company at 8.8 billion euros
($12 billion). Saipem had its rating cut by at least 11 brokers
after yesterday’s announcement that 2013 earnings before
interest and tax would be less than half the amount expected.  “The order of magnitude of these revisions suggests to us
that the company has executed poorly on projects during the
process,”  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  said today in a research note.
“Moreover, we believe the former management’s decision to bid
on projects at low prices could lead to further problems in
delivery that may result in additional writedowns.”  Italy’s market regulator Consob said it was reviewing the
sale of almost 10 million shares after the close of trading on
Jan. 28. The stake was sold at 30.65 euros a share, people
familiar with the transaction said, before Saipem announced
profit would be lower than expected.  A spokesman for  Fidelity Investments , Saipem’s second-
largest shareholder according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
said the company didn’t sell the stake. A spokesman for  Eni SpA (ENI) ,
Saipem’s largest shareholder with a 43 percent stake, declined
to comment on the matter.  Other providers of engineering to oil producers dropped on
concern Saipem’s announcement signaled lower profits across the
industry.  Technip SA (TEC) , Europe’s second-largest, fell 7.1 percent,
its biggest drop in more than a year. London-based  Petrofac Ltd. (PFC) 
tumbled 7 percent.  ‘Significant Reduction’  Saipem said yesterday it expected a “very significant
reduction” of about 80 percent in Ebit this year from its
onshore business because most of the contracts to be carried out
are less profitable than those that were completed in 2012,
mainly in the  Middle East , Nigeria and  Algeria .  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit offered 9.97
million shares, equivalent to 2.3 percent of the company, on
behalf of an institutional client after the close of trading on
Jan. 28. The price was 30.65 euros to 31.56 euros, according to
terms obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The shares were sold at the lower end of the range as a
“clean-up” trade, according to the term sheet for the sale. A
Merrill Lynch spokeswoman in  London  declined to comment on the
transaction.  Contract Delays  Delays to large contract awards in Venezuela, Nigeria and
Iraq also contributed to the lower guidance, Saipem’s new Chief
Executive Officer Umberto Vergine said on a conference call
yesterday. In the offshore business, Saipem expects Ebit to fall
by 70 percent in 2013, he said.  Vergine took over as CEO on Dec. 5 after Pietro Franco Tali
resigned because of an Italian investigation into contracts in
Algeria.  Eni, Italy’s largest oil company, fell 4.7 percent to close
at 18.40 euros in Milan trading.  The impact on Eni’s 2013 earnings from Saipem’s outlook is
about 200 million euros, Chief Financial Officer Massimo Mondazzi said today in a phone interview. The main upstream
projects with Saipem will continue as planned, he said.  Saipem’s profit decline will be temporary and there will be
a “significant” pickup in 2014, Mondazzi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  