-- Okada Wants Wynn’s Board to Investigate Cotai Concession
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-01-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/okada-wants-wynn-s-board-to-investigate-cotai-concession-1-.html
Kazuo Okada, the Japanese
billionaire  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  wants to remove from its board,
asked the directors to investigate company Chairman Steve Wynn’s
actions to obtain a concession for a new casino in Macau.  Okada said in a Jan. 24 letter to the board, filed in
federal court in Las Vegas, that documents he reviewed about the
underlying agreements for the Cotai project raise “serious
questions about the propriety of the actions taken by Mr. Wynn,
the company, and its affiliates in pursuing” it.  Wynn Resorts, based in Las Vegas, is asking shareholders to
vote Okada off its board of directors at a special Feb. 22
meeting. The casino operator last year forcibly redeemed Okada’s
20 percent stake in the company for a $1.9 billion promissory
note payable in 10 years, saying improper payments to Philippine
gaming regulators made him unsuitable.  Okada, who is fighting the redemption of his shares in
court, filed a lawsuit Jan. 24 to block the shareholder meeting.  Wynn Resorts in May received approval from the Macau
government to build a $4 billion resort on a 51-acre site on the
region’s Cotai Strip. Wynn said the resort, which will highlight
pieces from the company’s Chinese art collection, will “surely
be the fanciest we’ve ever done.”  University of Macau  Okada claims  Steve Wynn  wants to remove him from the board
because in 2011 he objected to a $135 million donation to the
University of Macau Development Fund. The chancellor of the
university has “ultimate oversight over gaming matters in
Macau,” Okada said in the letter to the board. Okada has noted
in previous filings that Macau’s chief executive also serves as
university chancellor.  “One month later, the company’s Cotai project in Macau
received the land concession it had been seeking for five
years,” according to Okada’s letter.  Okada said he couldn’t verify the authenticity of the Cotai
documents that he said “detail a series of highly suspicious
transactions.”  Among the documents is a 2006 joint-venture agreement
providing that a Wynn Resorts affiliate will pay a $35 million
“finders fee” and a 12.5 percent interest in the company that
would own the Cotai resort to a business called Tien Chiao upon
the award of the Cotai concession, according to Okada’s letter.  Capital Contribution  Tien Chiao appears to be owned by Ho Ho, an unidentified
individual, and Cliff Cheong, a person connected to former  Macau 
Chief Executive Edmund Ho, according to the letter. Tien Chiao
wasn’t required to make a capital contribution to the joint
venture and wasn’t obligated to do anything else, Okada said.  In a 2008 agreement, Tien Chiao relinquished its rights in
return for a $50 million payment when the Cotai concession would
be officially publicized by the Macau government, Okada said.  Wynn Resorts’ public disclosures about the Cotai
transaction only name an “unrelated third party” that agreed
to relinquish its rights to part of the land in Cotai in
exchange for $50 million, according to Okada.  “This and subsequent disclosures by Wynn Resorts appear to
give the impression that the unnamed and ‘unrelated third party’
had rights in the Cotai parcel, which I understand is owned by
the government of Macau, when in fact the Cotai documents, if
authentic, appear to show that the only rights the ‘unrelated
third party’ had were rights created by its joint-venture
agreement with the company’s affiliates,” Okada said.  Wynn Resorts said in a statement that Okada’s letter to the
board is “the latest ploy in Mr. Okada’s increasingly desperate
campaign to divert attention from the real issue —- his
misconduct as a director of Wynn Resorts.”  The case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts, 13-00136, U.S. District
Court, District of Nevada ( Las Vegas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  