-- Mongolia’s Biggest Coal Miner Loses Executives in Cost Cutting
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-01-30T02:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/mongolia-s-biggest-coal-miner-loses-executives-in-cost-cutting.html
Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi, the biggest
state-owned coal company in Mongolia, said its two most senior
foreign executives resigned as part of cost cuts at the cash
strapped company.  Chief Financial Officer Angus Caithness and Chief Operating
Officer Graeme Hancock have left, Erdenes TT spokeswoman Gurjav
Enkhmanduul said today in an e-mailed statement. Caithness and
Hancock are two of four deputy directors at the company, she
said.  “To overcome the current financial problems the board of
directors decided to decrease the company’s management expense
by releasing the foreign deputy directors,” the company known
as Erdenes TT said in a separate statement today. The posts will
be vacant until the company’s financial situation recovers,
Erdenes TT said. No details were given on any financial
compensation to the executives.  The departures throw into question the timing of Erdenes
TT’s initial public offering, which was expected to raise as
much as $3 billion when first planned three years ago. They
follow the company revealing this month that it stopped
deliveries to  Aluminum Corp. (2600)  of  China  Ltd., its main buyer,
because it couldn’t afford to truck coal to China.  Erdenes TT mines the East Tsankhi part of the 6 billion
metric ton Tavan Tolgoi field, one of the largest coal deposits
in Mongolia. The state company also owns the rights to the
untapped West Tsankhi block, which Mongolia has considered
leasing to foreign miners in return for royalties.  Hancock was the second-highest executive at Erdenes TT and
his role included preparing the company to list in  Hong Kong ,
 London  and on a domestic bourse, a person familiar with the
situation said yesterday.  Caithness is a graduate of  Harvard Business School  and the
Financial Services Institute of Australasia, according to his
LinkedIn profile. He formerly served as the CFO of Hunnu Coal
Ltd.  For Related News and Information:
Top Stories:{TOP  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  