-- Richest Black S. African Motsepe Joins Buffett Charity Vow
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-01-30T12:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/motsepes-join-buffett-initiative-and-pledge-wealth-to-charity.html
Patrice Motsepe, chairman of  African
Rainbow Minerals Ltd. (ARI)  and the richest black South African,
pledged some of his wealth to charity, joining  Warren Buffett ’s
initiative to boost philanthropy.  The Motsepe family “will contribute at least half of the
funds generated by our family assets to the Motsepe
Foundation,” to be used during his lifetime and beyond that of
his wife to improve lifestyles and living conditions of poor and
marginalized South Africans, Precious Moloi Motsepe, Patrice’s
wife, told reporters today in Johannesburg. The foundation was
formed in 1999.  Buffett, the chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , formed
the  Giving Pledge  with Bill and Melinda Gates in 2010 to boost
humanitarianism among the world’s richest people. Motsepe is the
richest black South African, last year estimated to be worth
20.1 billion rand ($2.2 billion) excluding property and unlisted
assets, according to the Johannesburg-based Sunday Times
newspaper.  Cyril Ramaphosa , who was chosen as deputy leader of
the country’s ruling party in December, is Motsepe’s brother-in-
law and the next most wealthy.  “Under no circumstance will there be a share overhang,”
Motsepe said today. “I haven’t sold shares since I started
African Rainbow Minerals. The most effective way I can help the
poor and make a contribution to philanthropy is to make sure
that our shareholders and investors have confidence in us.”  Motsepe’s Interests  Motsepe formed ARMgold, African Rainbow’s predecessor,
three years after apartheid ended in 1994 by purchasing mines
near closure from  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-
biggest producer of the metal. ARMgold in 2003 merged with
 Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  African Rainbow Minerals has interests
in gold, ferrous metals, base metals and platinum. It started
producing copper in Zambia, Africa’s biggest producer of the
metal, through a joint venture with Brazil’s Vale SA last year.  “My primary obligation will be  South Africa ,” Motsepe
said. “But in the places that African Rainbow Minerals is
involved in Africa, we will be helping.” Pledges may start
reaching the foundation this year, he said.  Motsepe is also chairman of Harmony Gold Mining Co.,
Africa’s third-largest bullion producer, and controls Mamelodi
Sundowns a team in South Africa’s 16-team Premier Soccer League.  Forbes magazine estimates Motsepe’s wealth at $2.65 billion
as of November, making him the eighth-richest man in  Africa .  “When I appeared on the cover of Forbes I didn’t know I
had so many relatives, which is fine, and Forbes said we had a
value which I didn’t know myself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  