-- Tour de France Rider Frank Schleck Receives One-Year Doping Ban
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-01-30T19:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/tour-de-france-rider-frank-schleck-receives-one-year-doping-ban.html
Frank Schleck , who finished third at
the 2011 Tour de  France , was handed a one-year ban from cycling
today after failing a drugs test at last year’s race.  Schleck abandoned the Tour in July after the banned drug
Xipamide was found in his urine sample. The diuretic can be used
as a masking agent for performance-enhancing drugs.  The sanction imposed by an anti-doping panel in his native
Luxembourg is less than the  World Anti-Doping Agency ’s
recommended two-year ban for first-time doping offenses.  Schleck, who’s on the same RadioShack-Trek team as his
younger brother Andy, said the ban -- which is retroactive and
will run through mid-July -- was too harsh. It means he will
miss this year’s  Tour de France .  “The decision to suspend me during one year is too severe
considering the fact that the council acknowledged that I
unintentionally consumed a contaminated product,” Schleck, 32,
said in a statement. “The judges acknowledged that I am not a
cheater.”  The panel couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Leopard SA, which controls the RadioShack-Trek team, said
it had no immediate comment on the ruling.  In an initial statement after Schleck failed the drugs
test, the team said Xipamide isn’t present in any medicine that
it uses and the reason for its presence in his sample was
unclear.  Scheck’s ban ratchets up the negative publicity for
cycling, which is reeling from  Lance Armstrong ’s confession
earlier this month that he doped during all seven of his Tour
de France wins.  Armstrong has said he’s been made a scapegoat for drug use
in cycling and that a truth-and-reconciliation panel is the best
way to clean up the sport. His comments came in an interview
published today with cyclingnews.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  