-- How Big an Inheritance Awaits Kate and William’s Baby?
-- B y   C a r o l y n   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-30T18:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/how-big-an-inheritance-awaits-kate-and-william-s-baby-.html
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge,
better known as Prince William and Kate Middleton, are expecting
their first child in July.  Is it a boy? A girl? Twins? The jury is still out, but on
one point there’s considerable certainty: Thanks to some ancient
history, the future monarch will eventually inherit a sizable
fortune and become the custodian of extraordinarily valuable
state assets.  Queen Elizabeth II, William’s grandmother, has a personal
fortune derived largely from the 46,000-acre Duchy of Lancaster,
a collection of properties in the northwest of  England . King
Edward III re-created the duchy for his son, Prince John of
Gaunt, after he married Blanche, the sole heiress of England’s
wealthiest peer, Henry Grosmont, the first Duke of Lancaster, in
1359.  When the couple’s only surviving son became King Henry IV
in 1399, he decreed that the  Duchy of Lancaster  would remain
separate from all other crown lands, passing directly from
monarchs to their heirs. The duchy is no pittance: It’s valued
at about 348 million pounds ($550 million) in total and yields
annual revenue of about 13 million pounds.  No Taxes  Not a bad inheritance for the royal child. Better yet, he
or she won’t pay taxes on it. A 1993 agreement between the queen
and Prime Minister John Major exempted assets inherited by a
monarch from a former sovereign or consort from the 40 percent
inheritance tax on estates valued at more than 250,000 pounds (a
measure undertaken to prevent the erosion of the royal family’s
financial resources).  That means the future monarch might also receive -- tax-
free -- two royal estates that the current queen inherited
directly from her father, King George VI: Balmoral in  Scotland ,
where the queen spends part of the summer, and Sandringham in
Norfolk, where the royal family celebrates Christmas. In
contrast to the Duchy of Lancaster, where the principal must be
maintained for future sovereigns, the disposal of Balmoral and
Sandringham is at the discretion of the monarch. The queen, in
other words, could hand them over to the nation rather than keep
them in the royal family, much as King Edward VII did with
Osborne House -- now a museum -- on the Isle of Wight in 1901.  Still, the future monarch will have to work for some of the
money he or she inherits: It will be his or her job to oversee a
collection of state properties originally known as the crown
estate or crown lands.  These were properties the monarchy had accumulated since
the Norman Conquest of 1066. Under reforms introduced in the
18th century, the monarch would surrender these lands to the
state but retain some control by serving as their custodian. In
return, he or she received an annual payment known as the  civil
list . The funds from the civil list now cover staff salaries as
well as the costs of entertaining more than 50,000 people a year
at garden parties, receptions, and official state visits. As of
2012, civil-list income, grants-in-aid for royal travel
expenses, and funds for the maintenance of the royal palaces
have been combined into a single sovereign grant under the
administration of the Treasury -- totaling about 31 million
pounds. That’s plenty of money for garden parties.  Finally, the future heir will have use of the royal
palaces: Buckingham Palace, St James’s Palace, Clarence House,
Marlborough House Mews, the residential and office areas of
Kensington Palace, Windsor Castle and the buildings in the home
and Great Park at Windsor, and Hampton Court Mews and Paddocks.
The heir may not transfer title to the historic collections
within these palaces, including the  royal art collection , as
these belong to the nation rather than the monarch. These are
assets, yes, but they can’t be sold to make up budget
shortfalls.  With so much wealth attached to the position of the
monarch, it may appear that younger children of the Duke and
Duchess of Cambridge would have little to inherit. Fear not:
Thanks to inheritances from William’s great-grandmother
(Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon, the “Queen Mum”) as well as from his
mother (Diana, Princess of  Wales ), the Duke of Cambridge has an
additional 17 million pounds or so to provide for any children
who arrive after his first-born.  Still, the baby due in July will get the lion’s share. And
with great wealth comes royal responsibility.  ( Carolyn Harris  is a lecturer in history at the University
of Toronto’s School of Continuing Studies and is a royal-history
blogger at  www.royalhistorian.com . The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Carolyn Harris at
 carolyn.suzanne.harris@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 