-- Toyota Supplier to Reduce Capex in Emerging Markets Push
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-01-30T01:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/toyota-supplier-to-reduce-capex-in-emerging-markets-push.html
Toyoda Gosei Co. (7282) , a supplier to
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , plans to reduce its costs to compete with
lower-priced providers of car parts in emerging markets.  The maker of auto parts including steering wheels and air
bags plans to cut capital expenditure by 20 percent to 30
percent, Tadashi Arashima, president of Toyoda Gosei, said
yesterday in an interview at the company’s headquarters in
Kiyosu, Aichi Prefecture. He didn’t give a timeframe for
reaching the target.  Toyoda Gosei spent 37.6 billion yen ($416 million) in
capital expenditure in the 12 months ended March 2012. The parts
maker,  43 percent owned  by Toyota,  expects  net income to more
than double to 17.5 billion yen, after the automaker recovered
from natural disasters and reclaimed the title of world’s
biggest carmaker last year.  The auto parts company will continue working on cost
reduction even as the Japanese currency’s decline helps improve
competitiveness, Arashima said.  “We are competing with makers from emerging countries, so
we can’t be relaxed just because the yen is weakening,” he
said.  The yen has fallen more than 5 percent in the past month,
the biggest decline among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The Japanese currency
reached as low as 91.26 on Jan. 28, the weakest since June 2010.  Toyota is targeting 50 percent of sales in  emerging
economies  and expanding the use of common parts to improve
production efficiency. Arashima said his company is affected
partly by Toyota’s cost cutting.  Toyoda Gosei will consider using local equipment makers or
mold makers in  emerging markets  as long as they meet quality and
price requirements, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  