-- Toyota Recalls Lexus in China as Tougher Laws Broaden Liability
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-30T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/toyota-recalls-lexus-in-china-as-tougher-laws-broaden-liability.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  voluntarily
recalled 22,869 Lexus cars in  China  because of defects with
windshield wipers, the biggest call back since a new law
broadening manufacturer liability came into force this year.  The company recalled the imported Lexus IS cars, which were
made from January 2006 to September 2011, according to a
statement on the website of China’s General Administration of
Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine, or AQSIQ. Toyota
said yesterday it recalled almost 1.3 million vehicles worldwide
because of defects associated with airbags and window wipers.  China is stepping up protection for consumers as automakers
from  General Motors Co. (GM)  to  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  seek to expand sales in
the world’s largest auto market. The new law allows the
government to order investigations and impose fines should
manufacturers and importers fail to recall faulty vehicles in a
timely manner. A separate rule mandating minimum standards for
automobile warranties comes into effect from October.  “Definitely, it will increase costs,” said Paolo
Beconcini, managing partner at Carroll, Burdick & McDonough LLP
in Beijing, whose firm advises European and U.S. automakers in
China on product liability, safety and intellectual property
issues. “Car manufacturers will have to invest more resources
internally to have people working on investigation, supporting
the work of AQSIQ.”  Levy Fines  Under the new law, the government can levy fines on
manufacturers and importers of as much as 200,000  yuan  ($32,152)
for failing to keep proper records, to as much as 10 percent of
the value of the defective vehicles for refusal to recall.
Serious violations can result in a revocation of licenses.  Before this law, automakers that avoided recalling
defective vehicles were fined up to 30,000 yuan. The term
manufacturer has been redefined in the new law to include
importers to ensure responsibility for imported vehicles that
may be faulty, said Beconcini.  Allen Lyu, head of  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Infiniti brand in
China, said it’s difficult to estimate how much costs will go up
as a result of the new warranty and recall laws.  “We need a certain period of time to understand how the
policies will be executed,” he said this week in Beijing.  The upcoming warranty law, commonly referred to as “san
bao” in Chinese, lays out the guidelines for repair,
replacement and refunds for vehicle purchases. Effective Oct. 1,
automakers must guarantee repairs for new vehicles for at least
three years or 60,000 kilometers (37,282 miles), whichever is
first reached.  Boosting Quality  “The policy will boost product quality,” said Zhu Fushou,
president of Dongfeng Motor Group Co., which makes passenger
vehicles with Nissan and Honda Motor Co. “It will also help
squeeze out inefficient companies. It is better to take
proactive measures rather than passively accept it.”  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  said on Jan. 4 it will voluntarily recall
2,864 Veloster cars in China because of defects associated with
brake-sealing rings. The company became the first automaker that
recalled vehicles under the new rule.  Renault SA recalled 5,097 Koleos sport utility vehicles on
Jan. 25 for welding faults.  Last year, a total of 113 cases of vehicle recalls were
administered, with 3.2 million defective vehicles being
recalled, a 75 percent increase from the year before, according
to AQSIQ. Issues about vehicle powertrains made up the largest
portion of complaints, the regulator said.  No automaker or importer has been fined under the new
legislation so far.  “If implemented strictly, OEMs will need to have tighter
controls on quality or they’ll have to pay extra costs,” said
Lin Huaibin, an analyst with researcher IHS Automotive in
 Shanghai .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  