-- Patty Andrews, Last Survivor of Wartime Sister Trio, Dies at 94
-- B y   M a r k   S c h o i f e t
-- 2013-01-31T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/patty-andrews-last-survivor-of-wartime-sister-trio-dies-at-94.html
Patty Andrews, the last surviving
member of the Andrews Sisters trio, who lifted American spirits
in World War II with songs such as “Don’t Sit Under the Apple
Tree” and “Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy,” has died. She was 94.  She died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles, of natural
causes, the Associated Press reported, citing family spokesman
Alan Eichler.  The  Andrews Sisters  were the most popular female vocal
group of the first half of the 20th century, selling more than
90 million records, recording 700 songs and placing 46 hits in
the top 10 on the Billboard pop charts. Their version of the
calypso song “Rum and Coca-Cola” was the best-selling record
of 1945.  With their unbridled patriotism and midwestern good-girl
image, the Andrews Sisters helped define wartime America. They
performed in uniform at military bases and hospitals, appeared
regularly on Armed Forces Radio and toured  Italy  with the USO.
They also sold war bonds and sang in flag-waving films such as
 “Buck Privates”  and “Stage Door Canteen.”  “We were such a part of everybody’s life in the Second
World War,” Patty once said. “We represented something
overseas and at home, a sense of security.”  Inspired by the  Boswell Sisters , a New Orleans jazz trio in
the 1920s and early 1930s, the Andrews Sisters developed
intricate and rhythmic three-part harmonies that were the vocal
counterpart of the era’s instrumental swing bands.  Singing Yiddish  They chose songs that went against the tide of popular
music, shunning romantic ballads in favor of novelty numbers and
boogie woogie. The group’s recordings included songs from other
languages as well: Their first big hit was “Bei Mir Bist du
Schoen,” an Anglicized version of a song from Yiddish theater.  “Patty, Maxene and LaVerne were rambunctious, highly
stylized performers who adapted the swing instrumentation to the
capabilities of the human voice,” said music historian Tony
Palmer.  The only blonde in the group, Patty stood in the middle of
the trio and took the solos. She sang sassy duets with Bing
Crosby and joked with comedian Lou Costello in films such as
 “In the Navy.” In her solo on “Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy,”
Patty danced to the front, miming the trumpet player while
singing about the Chicago jazz musician whose “number came up”
and was in the army now, blowing reveille.  “Patty was the fun one of the group, the clown who kept us
laughing during those endless periods of backstage boredom
between shows when we were doing five and six shows a day,”
wrote Maxene Andrews in her 1993 memoir of the war years, “Over
Here, Over There.”  Trumpet Emulators  Patricia Marie Andrews was born in Mound,  Minnesota , on
Feb. 16, 1918, the daughter of a Greek immigrant father and a
Norwegian immigrant mother who ran a restaurant in  Minneapolis .
The sisters developed an interest in music as children and began
performing on local radio stations and in amateur revues. They
aimed to emulate vocally the sound produced by three trumpets.  After making their professional debut in Minneapolis in
December 1932, the girls joined a vaudeville troupe and toured
the Midwest for six months. Their parents later closed the
restaurant to devote themselves to the girls’ career as the
sisters toured with bands from 1934 to 1937.  In 1937, the sisters went to New York and in time signed
with Decca Records, which had recorded the Boswell Sisters and
was looking for another female vocal group.  ‘Hold Tight’  Their second Decca single, “Bei Mir Bist du Schoen,” shot
to No. 1 on the charts in January 1938 after the trio performed
it on the popular radio show “Your Hit Parade.” Now stars, the
Andrews Sisters scored another hit in 1939 with the novelty song
“Hold Tight, Hold Tight,” then signed with Universal Pictures
and appeared in 17 low-budget pictures in the next eight years.  The sisters made the top 10 in 1940 with one of the few
ballads they recorded, “I’ll Be With You in Apple Blossom
Time,” which was featured in the film “Buck Privates.”  After a lengthy musicians’ strike that began in 1942, when
the sisters returned to the recording studio they were often
paired with Bing Crosby.  “I was so nervous, I didn’t think I would able to sing,”
Patty Andrews told Crosby’s biographer, Charles Thompson.  Somehow, she managed -- and the collaboration was a major
success. Among their many hits with Crosby was the country-and-
western number, “Pistol Packin’ Mama,” which sold more than 1
million copies in 1943.  Last Performance  In 1944, the Andrews Sisters began their own weekly radio
show, “Eight-to-Bar Ranch.” Four years later, Patty Andrews
embarked on a concurrent solo career. As a group, they scored
two No. 1 hits in 1950 with Patty singing lead and her sisters
more or less relegated to the background. The trio continued to
record for Decca until 1953.  Following LaVerne’s death in 1967, the group continued with
Joyce DeYoung. They performed as a trio for the last time in
July 1968, although the group enjoyed somewhat of a revival five
years later when Bette Midler’s remake of “Boogie Woogie Bugle
Boy” rose to No. 8 on the Billboard charts and led to the
release of two Andrews Sisters compilations.  Patty Andrews resumed her solo career in 1971, appearing in
a Los Angeles revue called “Victory Canteen.” Maxene was
brought in and the show was expanded into a full book musical.
Called  “Over Here!”  the show ran 10 months on Broadway before
closing in January 1975 after a dispute between Patty and
Maxene.  Patty and Maxene remained estranged and rarely spoke until
Maxene’s death in 1995.  In 1991, a half century after the Andrews Sisters topped
the charts, a World War II veteran approached Maxene after a
performance.  “I don’t know if you think this is a compliment,” he
said, “but to me and my buddies, the Andrews Sisters are
synonymous with World War II.”  “I told him,” Maxene recalled, “that it was one of the
nicest compliments we ever had.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Schoifet in New York at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  