-- Paul Ryan Can Do Better Than Do-Nothing Congress
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-01-30T23:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/paul-ryan-can-do-better-than-do-nothing-congress-caroline-baum.html
After a self-imposed silence
following the November election,  Paul Ryan  came out swinging
last week: swinging at the  federal budget . The Republican House
Budget Committee chairman said he can  eliminate the deficit  in
10 years without raising revenue. From  $1 trillion  to zero in
10. Can it be done?  Yes, according to budget experts. As a purely mechanical
exercise, Congress can cut enough spending -- real cuts, not
Washington-style cuts in the growth rate -- to bring the budget
into balance in a decade. Heck, Congress could have  done just
that  by doing nothing and allowing automatic tax increases and
spending cuts to kick in at the start of the year.  Whether balancing the  budget  is feasible politically is a
different story. Remember, this is the same crew that had to
swallow $1.2 trillion of automatic cuts in discretionary
spending because it couldn’t come up with them on its own, and
then freaked out when it looked as if those cuts might come to
pass. And now they’re going to tackle entitlements?  Ryan hasn’t said how he would eliminate the deficit. A
press spokesman said the Wisconsin congressman isn’t going to
raise tax rates and would like to do  tax reform  in a revenue-
neutral way. Like everyone else, Ryan is waiting for the
 Congressional Budget Office  to release its new baseline, which
reflects current law, on Feb. 5.  “It will be a whole new world,” said  Roberton Williams , a
senior fellow at the  Tax Policy Center  in  Washington .  New Guesses  The old-world baseline incorporated a dive off the fiscal
cliff, which the CBO said would produce a mild recession this
year. With the cliff averted, the economic outlook will improve.
If real gross domestic product increases a scant 0.1 percentage
point faster than the CBO forecast each year for 10 years, the
deficit shrinks by a cumulative $314 billion, according to  CBO
estimates . A real growth spurt could do wonders for the deficit.  Growth improves both sides of the fiscal ledger.  Revenue as
a share of GDP  tumbled to a six-decade low of 15.1 percent in
2009 and rose to 15.8 percent last year. A stronger economy
should lift tax receipts to something closer to their long-term
average of 18 percent of GDP. It would also reduce federal
outlays for things like  unemployment insurance  and  food stamps .
 Spending as a share of GDP  has exceeded 24 percent of GDP for
the past four years compared with a postwar average of 19.5
percent.  The one negative of faster growth is that it would boost
yields on  Treasury securities  and increase  interest on the debt ,
which last year totaled $360 billion with  long-term rates  at
historic lows.  Wait, you say. Ryan’s previous budget, the “ Path to
Prosperity ” didn’t balance the budget until 2040. Now he claims
he can do it by 2024?  Ryan’s fiscal 2013 budget pared the deficit to 1 percent of
GDP by 2017, where it remained before dwindling to nothing in
2040. His magic formula included spending cuts, tax
simplification and lower rates, the repeal of Obamacare and
premium support for individuals to choose their Medicare plan.  Some  economists  pooh-pooh the notion of tackling the long-
term structural deficit at a time when the gap between
government spending and revenue is largely a function of a weak
economy. But unless Congress does something to alter the
trajectory of  entitlement spending  now, the more draconian the
adjustment will be later.  The Social Security Trust Fund will run out of money in
2033, according to the  Trustees’ 2012 annual report . At that
point, the money coming in will cover only 75 percent of what
the fund has promised retirees, which means an automatic 25
percent cut for everyone receiving benefits.  Unbending Curve  The other driver of the structural deficit is the  cost of
medical care . The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of
2010 provided coverage for 30 million previously uninsured
Americans. What it didn’t do was bend the cost curve in a
favorable direction.  Now comes the caveat. A budget on paper often bears no
resemblance to reality. In 2001, for example, the CBO projected
a cumulative $5.6 trillion surplus over the next 10 years. The
result, courtesy of two wars, big tax cuts, a  housing bust ,
financial crisis and deep recession, was a cumulative deficit of
$6.1 trillion, an $11.7 trillion swing-and-a-miss.  At the other extreme, the budget surpluses of 1998 through
2001 were a surprise. “Nobody called for it,” said June O’Neill, the CBO director from 1995 to 1999 and currently a
professor of economics at  Baruch College  in  New York . President
 Bill Clinton  said Republicans’ push for a balanced budget in
seven years was impossible, O’Neill said. “It was balanced in
three.”  Some of it was luck:  Defense spending  was slashed -- actual
cuts -- after the collapse of the  Soviet Union . Some of it was
unexpected: The 1997 reduction in the  capital-gains tax  and
subsequent tech-stock bubble produced an annual “April
surprise” in  tax revenue .  By far the easiest way to reduce the deficit in the short
run is a surprise in economic growth, budget analysts agree. It
happened in the mid-1990s as businesses found productivity-
enhancing ways to harness new technologies. Could it happen
again?  No one knows where the next big idea or entrepreneurial
success will come from. For his part, President  Barack Obama 
seems more interested in dividing up a stagnant pie than
creating incentives to make it larger.  Short of a productivity shock, an asset-bubble-fueled tax
windfall or a jump in fertility rates to support an aging
population, Congress will have to make tough choices about taxes
and spending. Getting to zero in a decade isn’t going to be
easy, as Ryan would tell you. And it’s just a warm-up exercise
for the heavy lifting that comes later.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View :  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  