-- Pekao Sinks Most in 2 Years on UniCredit Stake Cut: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2013-01-30T12:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/pekao-sinks-most-in-2-years-on-unicredit-stake-cut-warsaw-mover.html
Bank Pekao SA (PEO) ,  Poland ’s second-
biggest lender, dropped the most in more than two years after
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  said it was selling as much as 9.1 percent of its
local unit to free capital and increase earnings.  The  stock  slumped as much as 6.3 percent and was 5.3
percent lower at 157.7 zloty as of 12:50 p.m. in Warsaw, the
biggest decline since November 2011. The amount of Pekao shares
traded was 614 percent of the three-month daily average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark WIG20
Index fell 0.6 percent.  The sale of as much as 23.9 million shares is valued at
3.98 billion zloty ($1.3 billion) based on yesterday’s  closing
price . Italy’s largest bank is selling assets and cutting costs
to improve profitability amid Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.
European banks, which control five out of Poland’s seven biggest
lenders, need to shore up their capital as stricter regulations
require them to repair balance sheets.  “UniCredit will have to offer a decent discount to the
previous price to make the placement happen,” Armen Gasparyan
in Moscow and  David Nangle  in London, analysts at  Renaissance
Capital  Ltd., said in a note today. Pekao trades at two times
its book value, above the industry’s average of 1.25 in eastern
Europe, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  UniCredit will  retain  at least 50.1 percent of Pekao after
the transaction and has agreed to a one-year lockup period, it
said in a regulatory filing late yesterday.  “The news should come as a surprise as UniCredit had not
signalled its intentions to reduce its stake in its Polish
subsidiary,” Michal Konarski and Mark MacRae, Warsaw-based
analysts at Wood & Co., said in a research note.  Stake Sales  The announcement comes less than a week after the Polish
government raised 5.24 billion zloty by selling a 12.2 percent
stake in  PKO Bank Polski SA (PKO) , the country’s largest lender.
Poland sold more than it initially planned on “high” demand,
the government said on Jan. 24.  Alior Bank SA (ALR)  sold 2.1 billion of shares in its initial
public offering in December and Carlo Tassara SpA, its founding
company, plans to find a buyer this year for “at least 30
percent stake,” according to its IPO prospectus.  Investors are also “gearing up for a significant unloading
of shares, around $1.4 billion,” from  Bank Zachodni WBK SA (BZW) ,
analysts at Renaissance Capital added.  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , Belgium’s biggest bank, picked managers for a
secondary offering of a 16 percent stake in Zachodni, Dziennik
Gazeta Prawna reported on Jan. 17.  The recent supply of banking assets may lead to “pressure
for a discount” during the planned sale of Zachodni, Jaromir Szortyka, an analyst at PKO Bank’s brokerage said in a note
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  