-- Philippines Joins Korea in Weighing Steps to Curb Inflows
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-01-31T02:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/philippines-weighs-measures-to-curb-inflow-risk-southeast-asia.html
Philippine central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said he’s studying more measures to counter
excessive capital inflows lured by growth, joining South Korea
and Singapore in warning that policy makers need to consider
more steps to reduce the impact of such funds.  “Capital flows and the impact of these on the local
economy and local financial markets” would be among the biggest
challenges this year, Tetangco said in an interview in his
office yesterday. “We continue to study what other measures can
be implemented just in case there’s a need to adopt more
measures in the future.”  Monetary easing in developed nations from  Japan  to the U.S.
and  Europe  has spurred flows to faster growing  emerging markets 
as investors seek higher returns, boosting  Asian stocks  to the
highest in 17 months this week. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
can’t rule out further reductions on the rate it pays on funds
placed in its special deposit accounts after a cut last week,
Tetangco said.  “It’s becoming challenging to manage inflows with so much
of it coming in and increasing liquidity in the system,” said
Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit
Suisse Group AG. “What the central bank doesn’t want is for
these funds to go into speculative activities, like to the
property sector.”  The Philippine economy grew 6.8 percent last quarter from a
year earlier, the government said today, beating the median
estimate of 6.3 percent in a Bloomberg News survey. Gross
domestic product increased 6.6 percent in 2012, it said.  Gradual Appreciation  Singapore  central bank Managing Director Ravi Menon said
yesterday Asian policy makers should allow a gradual
appreciation of their currencies along with other measures to
keep inflationary pressures contained as the region faces a
“wall of money.” South Korea should consider taxes on currency
trading and bonds to help limit “speculative” inflows of capital,
Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku said yesterday.  Thailand will set up a team of economists, including
central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul, to study how to
respond to short-term capital inflows, Finance Minister
Kittiratt Na-Ranong said yesterday. The country won’t impose
capital controls or tax measures to curb fund flows, he said.  Interest rates will remain low this year even as growth
will probably meet the government’s 6 percent-to-7 percent
target, Tetangco said.  “From our point of view, we do not see signs of
overheating in the Philippine economy,” the governor said.  New Limits  Bangko Sentral in 2012 announced limits on banks’ currency
forward positions and banned overseas funds from special deposit
accounts. Last week it cut the rate it pays on 1.72 trillion
pesos ($42 billion) in its  so-called SDAs  to 3 percent from more
than 3.5 percent. It kept the benchmark  overnight borrowing  rate
unchanged at a record-low 3.5 percent.  “By introducing more macro-prudential measures, they’re
able to target specific concerns unlike using the main interest
rate, which is a blunt tool,” Santitarn said.  Philippine outsourcing companies have called on policy
makers to curb the peso’s gains to sustain competitiveness.
Inflows must be managed as currency gains may hurt exporters and
low rates may spur asset bubbles,  New York  University Professor
Nouriel Roubini said in a speech in Manila yesterday.  “We don’t see evidence of stretched market conditions at
this point in time but we continue to monitor,” Tetangco said.
“We don’t target a particular exchange rate. Our policy is the
same; we won’t go against the fundamental trend but reserve the
right to step in the market to smoothen excessive volatilities
as may be necessary.”  Top Performer  Capital inflows have boosted Philippine stocks and helped
make the peso Asia’s best-performing currency in the past 12
months.  The peso climbed to 40.55 per dollar on Jan. 14, the
strongest level since March 2008. It was little changed at 40.66
as of 10:15 a.m. in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
yield on the  three-year peso bonds  fell to 3.29 percent this
week, the lowest since September 2011. The main  stock index 
climbed 0.6 percent today, extending a record high.  The $225 billion economy is on the cusp of an investment-
grade rating, President Benigno Aquino said this month. That
would attract inflows, Tetangco said yesterday.  The Philippines has the highest junk rating at Moody’s
Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s. S&P
raised the outlook to positive last month and said an upgrade is
possible in 2013 on improved governance and public finances.  Encourage Outflows  The Philippines may consider further loosening foreign-
exchange rules to encourage outflows, Felipe Medalla, a member
of the central bank’s Monetary Board, told reporters yesterday.  “We’re not thinking of imposing holding period for
investments in stocks,” Medalla said. “If at all, maybe on
fixed income, because people who go to fixed income do carry
trade. We’re studying everything.”  South Korea’s finance official Choi said yesterday his
government may further tighten restrictions on banks’ currency
forward positions. South Korea on Nov. 27 capped currency
forward positions at 150 percent of equity for branches of
foreign banks. The limit is 30 percent of equity for domestic
banks.  Tools other than interest rates have to be used as
emerging-market economies such as the  Philippines  try to curb
volatility, sustain growth and keep prices stable, Tetangco said.  “The policy rate remains the main instrument of monetary
policy,” he said. “Over the long run, we may develop an
interest-rate corridor. What we did last week was an
intermediate step towards that. It’s a medium-term objective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  