-- Plea for More Generous Health Credit Rejected by IRS
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-01-30T20:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/plea-for-more-generous-health-credit-rejected-by-irs.html
An effort to allow looser rules for
calculating whether workers will be eligible for U.S. subsidies
to buy health insurance was rejected today by the  Internal
Revenue Service .  Employees can receive government tax credits to buy
insurance for their families if the coverage their employers
offer would cost more than 9.5 percent of their income, the IRS
said today in  final regulations . That calculation will be based
on the cost of self-only coverage, not family coverage, which is
more expensive and would give more people access to the credits.  Democrats, including U.S. Representatives Sander Levin of
 Michigan  and  Henry Waxman  of  California , had called for the IRS
to use the more generous calculation to give families more
access to policies on the insurance exchange, or marketplace. In
a letter they wrote to the Treasury Department in December 2011,
they cited estimates that suggested that more than 2 million
people would be affected by 2019.  “The notion that Congress wrote the law in a manner that
would exclude many families from access to more affordable
coverage in the exchange if their employer offered them family
coverage exceeding 9.5 percent of their  household income  is
simply incongruent,” they wrote. “The effect of this wrong
interpretation of the law will be that many families remain or
potentially become uninsured.”  No Penalty  The IRS said in a proposed rule also issued today that most
families in such a situation won’t have to pay a penalty to the
government if they choose not to buy insurance. Under the
Affordable Care Act, most Americans are required to carry
insurance beginning next year, with a maximum penalty of $285
per family or 1 percent of income if they don’t. The penalty
rises to $2,085 or 2 percent of income by 2016, according to the
 Kaiser Family Foundation  of  Menlo Park , California.  “It’s a major improvement with respect to protecting
families from penalties if they can’t afford health-care
coverage,”  Ron Pollack , executive director of the consumer
advocacy group Families USA, said in a telephone interview.
“But it still leaves a significant problem because families
that can’t afford health coverage either through an employer or
on their own will be unable to get the subsidy help they need.”  The IRS didn’t say how many people are expected to be
exempt from the health law’s mandate as a result of the rules,
or how many won’t be able to get insurance subsidies.  “There will be a substantial number of families who are
priced out of needed health care,” Pollack said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  