-- Polio Vaccine Dose Reduction Cuts Costs as WHO Nears Eradication
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-01-30T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/polio-vaccine-dose-reduction-cuts-costs-as-who-nears-eradication.html
A partial dose of polio vaccine was
as good as a full one in providing a basic level of immunity
against the crippling disease, according to a study that may
offer poor countries a cheap, effective way of ensuring the
disease doesn’t return after it’s eradicated in an area.  In a trial among 310 babies in Cuba, a one-fifth-sized dose
of the shot primed the immune systems of 94 percent of the
infants for poliovirus type 2, compared with 98 percent of those
who received a full dose, researchers at the World Health
Organization  wrote  in the New England Journal of Medicine today.
That means their systems are ready to pump out protective
antibodies on receipt of a second dose, which would be given if
polio were to re-emerge.  The WHO, backed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation,
is nearing a global goal of eradicating polio, which has been
cleared from every country except  Afghanistan , Nigeria and
 Pakistan . Today’s findings support the Geneva-based agency’s
efforts to maintain a basic level of immunity in case the
disease returns.  “We were almost blown away by the level of priming that we
saw after a single dose,” said Roland Sutter, a WHO researcher
who participated in the trial. “We did not expect that we would
see this at this level,” Sutter said in a telephone interview.  After two doses of the partial vaccine, 98 percent of the
infants were protected against type 2 polio, compared with 100
percent of those who got the regular dose, the researchers
found.  Vaccine Switch  Polio, which mainly affects children under five years, is
caused by a virus that invades the nervous system and can cause
 irreversible paralysis  within hours. Vaccination campaigns have
reduced the number of cases by more than 99 percent to about 650
in 2011 from about 350,000 in 1988, according to the WHO.  In preparation for the post-eradication phase of the
campaign, the WHO has recommended that countries include at
least one dose of polio vaccine in their routine childhood
immunization program. The agency has also recommended that
countries switch to the injected polio vaccine, which contains a
dead form of the virus, from the commonly used oral vaccine,
which contains a disabled live form that in rare cases has led
to cases of polio.  The trial, which was funded by the WHO and the Pan American
Health Organization, suggests that giving two one-fifth doses of
the vaccine could reduce the cost of protecting a child to $1.20
from $6 now, the researchers wrote. A single priming dose would
cost 60 cents, they said.  Manufacturers of the injected polio vaccine include
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,  Sanofi (SAN) , Serum Institute of India Ltd. and
Statens Serum Institut, a unit of  Denmark ’s health ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  