-- Pro-European U.K. Politicians Unite Against Cameron Plan
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-30T16:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/pro-european-u-k-politicians-unite-against-cameron-plan.html
Prime Minister David Cameron faced
criticism of his strategy to win back powers from the European
Union from leading figures in all three main U.K. political
parties.  Ken Clarke, a Cabinet member from Cameron’s Tories, Liberal
Democrat Treasury minister Danny Alexander and former EU Trade
Commissioner Peter Mandelson from the opposition Labour Party
united for the establishment of a pressure group titled  British
Influence . The group will assemble an “army of supporters to
fight europhobia and promote a reform and growth agenda that
serves the British national interest,” according to an e-mailed
statement today.  “We need to concentrate on what we are in favor of and not
just what we are against,” Clarke, who is one of a minority of
pro-EU Conservative lawmakers, will say in London tonight,
according to extracts of his speech released by the group.
“There is a huge potential prize out there for the United
Kingdom if only we focus our attention and influence in any
future negotiations on the positive things that really matter.”  The premier set out his plans last week for looser British
membership of the 27-nation bloc, pledging to put renegotiated
terms to a popular vote by the end of 2017, if re-elected in two
years. He says he wants Britain to remain in the EU.  The speech, in response to demands from many Tory
lawmakers, sparked criticism that potential uncertainty
surrounding a four-year debate over EU membership would
undermine the U.K. economy’s appeal to global business. More
than half of British exports went to EU countries in 2011, the
latest annual data available, and the government says more than
3 million U.K. jobs rely on trade with fellow members.  ‘Nonsensical’ Plan  The speech again highlighted differences between the Tories
and their coalition partners, the pro-EU Liberal Democrats.  “It should be obvious to all that we are more powerful
negotiating from inside  Europe  than from the sidelines,”
Alexander will say. “The EU is not perfect by any stretch and
I’m a big advocate of EU reform. But the idea that we should
extract ourselves from the bulk of EU obligations is
nonsensical.”  Mandelson, a member of the upper House of Lords, will say
that euroskeptics “have been allowed to get away with murder
with the lies and false propaganda they have poured out about
the European Union and what it represents for our country.”  “This cannot go unchallenged anymore,” Mandelson will
say. “The pro-Europeans have bided their time. Now we must
unbide our time. Instead of heading up a cul-de-sac of mindless,
inward-looking soul-searching and navel-gazing, we should be
going out and spreading our influence and fighting for the
agenda we think is good for Britain and for Europe as a whole.”  Cameron demoted Clarke from justice secretary to minister
without portfolio during a government reorganization in
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  