-- Rating Firms Inflated Credit Grades to Match Rivals, Report Says
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-01-30T17:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/rating-firms-inflated-credit-grades-to-match-rivals-report-says.html
Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service inflated their grades on securitized debt
prior to the financial crisis to match each other’s opinions to
avoid losing business, according to a  University of Texas 
finance professor.  Collateralized debt obligations rated AAA by both companies
defaulted more often than securities with the same grade from
one firm, according to a paper dated Jan. 25 from John Griffin
at the University of Texas at Austin. The study examined 2,790
CDOs, which bundle bonds or loans and slice them into securities
of varying risk and return, issued from 1997 to 2007.  “Our results are consistent with rating agencies going
beyond their models due to competitive pressure,” Griffin and
co-authors Jordan Nickerson and Dragon Tang, wrote in the paper.
“Under pressure from investment banks, the rating agency with
the more stringent standard will need to stretch their standards
to match their more lenient competitor.”  Inflated grades on bonds backed by subprime mortgages
helped ignite the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression when their values plummeted five years ago. Analysts
were pressured to give their stamp of approval to complex
investments in a “race to the bottom” to win lucrative
business from Wall Street banks, the U.S. Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations said in an April 2011 report.  “Analytic independence has always been a core principle of
S&P’s ratings process,”  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for the company
in New York, wrote in an e-mailed statement. “We have long had
policies in place to manage potential conflicts of interest,
including a separation of analytic and commercial activities.”  Michael Adler , a Moody’s spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 