-- Treasury Yields at Almost 9-Month Highs as Fed Retains Stimulus
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-01-30T22:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/treasury-yields-at-almost-9-month-highs-as-fed-retains-stimulus.html
Treasury 30-year bond yields traded
at almost nine-month highs after the Federal Reserve restated
its commitment to asset purchases to spur economic growth,
keeping alive the threat of inflation.  Yields fluctuated as policy makers pledged to will keep
purchasing securities under its third round of quantitative
easing at the rate of $85 billion a month as the economy paused
because of temporary forces including bad weather. The long
bond’s yield touched the highest level since April before a
report showed the U.S. economy unexpectedly contracted in the
fourth quarter.  “Some people were looking for less accommodation from the
Fed, but it’s clear that it is way too soon for that,” said
Scott Graham, head of government bond trading in  Chicago  at  Bank
of Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital Markets unit, one of the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the U.S. central bank.  The  30-year yield  was little changed at 3.18 percent at 5
p.m. New York time after touching 3.22 percent, the highest
since April 12, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The
price of the 2.75 percent security due in November 2042 was 91
23/32.  The 10-year  note yield  declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.99 percent after reaching 2.03 percent,
the highest since April 25.  ‘Transitory Factors’  “Growth in economic activity paused in recent months in
large part because of weather-related disruptions and other
transitory factors,” the Federal Open Market Committee said
after its first gathering of the year.  The purchases will remain divided between $40 billion a
month of mortgage-backed securities and $45 billion a month of
Treasury securities. The central bank also will continue
reinvesting any Treasury securities that mature and will
reinvest its portfolio of maturing housing debt into agency
mortgage-backed securities.  The Fed repeated that the purchases will continue “if the
outlook for the labor market does not improve substantially.”  The central bank spent $2.3 trillion on Treasury and
mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011 in the first two rounds
of it policy known as quantitative easing.  The Fed also left unchanged its statement that it planned
to hold its target interest rate near zero as long as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and inflation remains
below 2.5 percent.  Inflation Concern  The Fed’s measure of traders inflation expectations for the
period from 2018 to 2023, known as the  five-year five-year 
forward break-even rate, has climbed since the Fed announced it
would buy $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed securities
Sept. 13. It was at 2.88 percent, the highest since Nov. 1,
after averaging 2.52 percent in the six months before the
mortgage purchases were announced.  The  difference in yields  between 30-year government notes
and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, have risen
to 2.59 percentage points, close to the highest since September.  “Rather than worry about buying dips, you should sell
rallies in fixed income,” said David Robin, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at Newedge USA LLC, an institutional-
brokerage firm. “The Fed is trying to, and succeeding in,
shifting market sentiment toward more risky assets.”  Employment Reports  The economy is forecast to have created 161,000 jobs in
January, according to economists in a Bloomberg News survey,
when the Labor Department announces this month’s nonfarm payroll
data Feb. 1. Monthly job growth has averaged 153,000 since the
start of 2011. The  jobless rate  will remain at 7.8 percent,
according to another survey.  Government bonds briefly pared losses after gross domestic
product, the volume of all goods and services produced, dropped
at a 0.1 percent annual rate, the Commerce Department said,
weaker than any economist forecast in a Bloomberg survey. A drop
in government outlays and smaller gain in stockpiles cut a
combined 2.6 percentage points from growth.  “Fourth-quarter gross domestic product was a reminder of
how weak the underpinnings of the U.S. economy are,” Jeffrey Caughron, an associate partner at Baker Group LP in Oklahoma
City, said in a telephone interview. The firm advises community
banks on investments exceeding $42 billion. “The economy will
continue to turn in subpar performance, which will compel the
Fed to continue aggressive monetary easing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  