-- Recommind Wins Document-Search Deal With SEC in Next Step to IPO
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-01-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/recommind-wins-document-search-deal-with-sec-in-next-step-to-ipo.html
Recommind Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Bob Tennant says his company is taking off, and he’s
just clinched the deal to prove it.  His San Francisco-based startup, which provides electronic
discovery software to companies and law firms, boosted sales 50
percent last year, surpassing $70 million, while top rival
Autonomy Corp. brought about an $8.8 billion writedown at parent
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Meanwhile, Recommind has just landed one of its most high-
profile contracts. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
has been testing Recommind’s software since mid-2012, and is now
deploying the service to 1,200 employees in the regulator’s
enforcement unit, the company said today. Like Recommind’s more
than 300 customers, the SEC is using the technology to quickly
search for, and identify, relevant documents, reducing the time
and costs of investigations.  “A lot of the times, when the SEC misses things, it’s
because there’s too much stuff,” Tennant, 43, said in an
interview at his office in San Francisco’s financial district.
“The traditional ways of dealing with it are no longer
workable. They came to that realization.”  Following a year that included contracts with Siemens AG’s
U.S. subsidiary and the  New York  State Bar Association, the SEC
deal puts 12-year-old Recommind in position to join the crop of
business software companies that have recently sold shares on
the public market.  IPO Prospects  Splunk Inc. (SPLK) , a maker of software that helps businesses
analyze data, and cloud-software providers Workday Inc. and
ServiceNow Inc. have surged since their initial public offerings
last year. Each trade at 18 to 40 times revenue over the past 12
months, compared with a price-to-sales ratio of 2.3 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  technology group .  Tennant said he hasn’t ruled out an IPO this year and is
also considering a private-financing round.  “We feel pretty comfortable about the valuations we would
be able to command, in either the private or public market,”
Tennant said.  To help prepare the company for an IPO, Recommind added
Oracle Corp.’s former finance chief Jeff Epstein to its board in
August. About 200 of Recommind’s 450 employees are in
engineering, with the bulk of the company in San Francisco and
Bonn,  Germany .  The e-discovery market, including software, services and
hardware, is expected to grow 35 percent by 2016 to $22.8
billion, from $16.9 billion last year, according to Vivian Tero,
an analyst at IDC in  Boston . It’s a fragmented market that
includes Hewlett-Packard’s Autonomy unit,  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) ’s
Clearwell Systems Inc. division, as well as International
Business Machines Corp., Oracle and EMC Corp.  Industry Standard  Recommind is seeing less of Autonomy and Clearwell in the
market since they were acquired in 2011, Tennant said. Still,
the two competitors are backed by giant  balance sheets  and
global brands, representing a risk to a startup. For Recommind
to continue its growth trajectory, it needs to become an
established industry standard. The SEC deal can help Recommind
achieve that, according to Tero.  “Any organization that’s constantly being investigated
will probably want to use the same type of tools that regulators
are using, because it solves a lot of problems,” Tero said.  While Tennant didn’t disclose the size of the contract with
the SEC, he said most clients pay in the hundreds of thousands
of dollars per year, with the largest deals exceeding $5
million. The SEC is already using the software for more than 100
cases, he said.  Complex Searches  The deployment, part of an agency-wide technology upgrade,
is being used to handle the 6 terabytes of data (equivalent to
250,000 boxes of paper) handled each month by the SEC’s
enforcement division, according to Adam Storch, the division’s
chief operating officer.  “This will change the way enforcement does business,”
Storch said. It “makes us more productive and effective,
especially in large, complex matters that challenge traditional
approaches,” he said.  Started in 2000 by two graduate students in machine
learning, Recommind found its niche two years later as a
provider of search tools for the legal market. In 2007, the
company expanded into e-discovery and investigation, and has
bolstered sales between 50 percent and 120 percent each year,
Tennant said.  More Efficient  The software is used by large companies facing constant
litigation, regulatory agencies and businesses that are in
highly regulated industries such as energy, financial services
and health care.  For clients like law firm Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale &
Dorr LLP, the key to Recommind’s technology is what’s called
predictive coding, a process that goes beyond keyword search,
fetching documents and data based on intent and meaning. For
example, a search on “credit default swap” would return
documents with that exact phrase, as well as related concepts.  Steven Berrent , managing director of Wilmer Cutler’s
DiscoverySolutions group, said Recommind’s software can reduce
the number of documents reviewed by humans by 80 percent, and
save 50 percent on the costs of a case.  “The old-fashioned way is to have a lot of lawyers working
in a room and you just go document by document, to the bottom,”
Berrent said. “This moves us from purely commoditized document
review, which is inefficient, expensive and cumbersome, and
enables us to get much more value out of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  