-- Rifle Group Loses Challenge to New Jersey Gun-Buying Law
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-01-30T20:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/rifle-group-loses-challenge-to-new-jersey-gun-buying-law.html
A  U.S. court of appeals  upheld the
dismissal of a lawsuit brought by the  Association of New Jersey
Rifle & Pistol Clubs  challenging a state statute that limits
purchases of handguns to one a month.  The non-profit group sued the state in 2010 arguing that
federal law barred the restrictions imposed on pellet-firing air
guns and BB guns as part of a 2009 statute. The U.S. Court of
Appeals in Philadelphia disagreed and upheld a lower court’s
dismissal of the case.  “Because the One Gun Law regulates but does not prohibit
the sale of BB and air guns, it is not preempted” by federal
law governing imitation firearms, a three-judge panel said in
its ruling today.  The  New Jersey  law provides exemptions from its
restrictions for handgun collectors and competitive shooters.
The provision, which requires an application detailing specific
handguns for purchase by serial numbers, makes it difficult or
impossible for the average collector to obtain an exemption, the
rifle group argued in court papers. The appeals court rejected
the argument that the process violated the group’s right to
property.  “The implementing forms do not add further requirements
that are so onerous as to deprive appellants of any property
interest they may have in the exemptions,” the court ruled.  The group is the official  National Rifle Association  of
America’s state affiliate, according to its website. Officials
didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the
ruling.  The case is Association of New Jersey Rifle & Pistol Clubs
v. Governor of the State of New Jersey, 12-1624, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit (Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  