-- Rio Said to Consider Halt at Biggest Mongolia Copper Mine
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e ,   T o d d   B a e r   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-01-31T05:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/rio-said-to-consider-halt-at-biggest-mongolia-copper-mine.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the second-biggest
mining company, is considering a temporary halt to construction
work at its $6.2 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold project in
Mongolia as the government demands a greater share of profit
from the mine, according to two people familiar with the plans.  The London-based company is discussing the suspension to
protest the central Asian nation’s demands for a bigger stake in
the project and new mining royalty rates, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
comment publicly. A suspension of work, which may halt mining
and processing, isn’t certain and is among options that managers
are discussing in  London , one of the people said.  “We continue to work together with all stakeholders
including the government of Mongolia to bring the benefits of
Oyu Tolgoi to all parties,” said Bruce Tobin, a spokesman for
Rio in  Melbourne . He declined to comment on whether it’s
considering a temporary halt.  The dispute comes as Mongolian Prime Minister Norovyn Altankhuyag’s government tries to maintain support for foreign
investment amid growing nationalism and wealth disparity. In
October, Rio rejected a second move by Mongolia to renegotiate a
2009 investment agreement for the development of Oyu Tolgoi,
which is currently the world’s biggest copper project under
construction.  ‘Play Hardball’  “Whilst a shutdown would be negative in the short term,
the fact such a move is under consideration suggests Rio is
prepared to play hardball to retain its stake in the project,”
 Richard Knights , a mining analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in
London, said yesterday.  Rio declined 1.1 percent to close at A$66.36 in Sydney
trading. Bigger rival BHP Billiton Ltd. fell 0.4 percent.
 Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , the Rio unit through which it
controls Oyu Tolgoi, fell 3.4 percent yesterday to close at
C$7.87 in Toronto.  At full capacity the mine will account for almost a third
of Mongolia’s economic output. It’s on schedule to start
commercial production in the first half, Tobin said. The first
ore has been mined and the concentrator, which processes the raw
material at the site, has been switched on, he said.  The mine may contribute 2.2 percent of the company’s
earnings before interest, tax depreciation and amortization this
year, Knights said. Rio’s 2013 Ebitda will be $22.2 billion,
according to the average of 25 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Strategic Assets  Any delay in reaching commercial production may increase
pressure on copper prices. The metal will advance 7.6 percent in
2013 as demand in  China , the U.S. and  Europe  rises amid a supply
deficit, Morgan Stanley said in a Jan. 24 report. Global demand
will exceed supply by 17,000 metric tons in 2013, the fourth
straight annual deficit, according to the bank.  “Companies juggle between trying to justify operating in a
higher-risk growth market like Mongolia or  Africa  and then
looking to expand existing assets but at lower ore grades,”
 Mark Pervan , ANZ Banking Group Ltd.’s head of commodity research,
said by phone. “The two combined to me say higher prices.”  Copper in London rose 1.5 percent to close yesterday at
$8,226 a metric ton ($3.73 a pound), the highest since Oct. 11.
It traded little changed at $8,225 at 1:30 p.m. Shanghai time.  Resource Nationalism  Foreign investment in Mongolia, which relies on minerals
for more than 90 percent of its exports, has cooled since a law
last year restricted state-owned companies from controlling
strategic assets. The nation of 2.8 million people broke off
from Communist rule and dependence on the  Soviet Union  in 1990.  The government said in 2011 it wanted to boost its stake in
Oyu Tolgoi to 50 percent from 34 percent as well as change
royalty payments.  Those demands highlight the risks from so-called resource
nationalism that global mining companies face in the developing
world. The issue is a top concern for mining companies, along
with skill shortages, infrastructure access and costs, according
to a report from Ernst & Young last year.  The  Democratic Republic  of Congo,  Poland ,  Peru  and the U.S.
are among other countries that have either proposed or imposed
tax or royalty gains on mineral projects in 2011 or the first
half of 2012, E&Y said.  “Resource nationalism might start to rear its head more
often as the easy-to-get-at supply has been exhausted or is
mature,” said ANZ’s Melbourne-based Pervan.  The escalating dispute with Mongolia also comes at a time
of upheaval at the company. Rio said Jan. 17 it appointed  Sam Walsh  as chief executive officer to replace Tom Albanese, who
left after the company took $14 billion of writedowns on
aluminum and coal assets.  Six Years  Rio has a 51 percent interest in Vancouver-based Turquoise
Hill, formerly known as Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., which holds a 66
percent stake in Oyu Tolgoi. Ivanhoe spent more than six years
negotiating with Mongolia before reaching the deal on
development in 2009.  Any suspension of operations at the project won’t be
permanent partly because if Rio took that course it would then
forfeit certain rights to the project under the terms of the
government accord, one of the people said.  Rio is considering expanding the mine and expects to
conclude a study of the proposal in the first half of this year.
The expansion would involve building an underground mine, a
power station and enlarging the concentrator. The work may cost
$5.1 billion, Turquoise Hill said in a March report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Baer in Mongolia (NON BLP LOC) at 
 tbaer6@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  