-- Rio Cracks Down on Bars as Club Blaze Hangs Over Carnival
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-01-30T17:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/rio-cracks-down-on-bars-as-club-blaze-hangs-over-carnival.html
Authorities in Rio de Janeiro are
stepping up inspections of bars ahead of Carnival as a blaze
that killed 235 people draws attention to the party capital’s
record for safety and crowd control.  Firefighters yesterday shut down the second floor of Bar
Mofo after the popular club in the nighttime Lapa district was
found lacking a license allowing live performances. The partial
closure was the result of inspections that have proliferated
across the country after authorities blamed multiple fire and
safety code violations for the deadly blaze over the weekend at
a club in the southern town of Santa Maria.  The tragedy, Brazil’s deadliest fire in half a century, has
outraged Brazilians, leading to a wave of national soul-
searching and prompting calls for stricter supervision of
nightclubs to prevent such a tragedy from ever occurring again.
That’s especially true in Rio, as the host of the 2014 World Cup
and 2016 Olympics awaits the arrival of an estimated 900,000
tourists for the annual Carnival revelry beginning next week.  “Unfortunately in Brazil action only takes place when
there’s a tragedy of this magnitude,” Isnard de Oliveira Manso,
president of Polo Novo Rio Antigo, an association of 45 bars and
night clubs in the Lapa area, said in a phone interview.  Rio’s Revelry  Lapa, a district of historically preserved buildings
adjacent to the city’s Sambadrome, ground zero for Carnival, is
one of the areas under the microscope. On any given weekend, its
bars and samba clubs are packed with besotted Brazilians and
tourists, whose revelry spills over into the streets.  Club owners in the area are working with authorities to
redouble safety measures and prevent a tragedy like the one in
Santa Maria from ever occurring in Rio.  Among their concerns are the excessive red tape required to
obtain a permit, a process that lends itself to abuse and can
force well-intentioned bar owners to wait for several years to
operate legally, said Manso.  Still, the tragedy has led even well-prepared proprietors
to boost safety. Rio Scenarium, a three-floor  samba hall  in Lapa
that can accommodate more than 2,000 people, yesterday installed
a fire escape route using glow in the dark adhesive tape.  “It’s not something required by law but we thought it was
wise to do in the wake of this tragedy,” Plinio Froes, part
owner of the club, said in a phone interview. “We want to have
complete peace of mind.”  Action Elsewhere  An extra obstacle for Lapa are laws protecting the area’s
century-old facades. One bar, Sacrilegio, had its request
several years ago for a permit to widen its single exit denied
because of a prohibition against modifications, said Denis
Paiva, the bar’s head of human resources.  Phone calls to  Bar Mofo  were not immediately returned and
the owner was not on the premises when visited by Bloomberg
News.  In addition to Lapa, another concern ahead of Carnival may
be Rio’s numerous samba schools, the most popular of which can
attract thousands of spectators to open-air rehearsals where the
beer is flowing and security minimal.  Elsewhere in Brazil, other cities have been stepping up
inspections and closing venues that fail to meet safety
standards.  In Sao Paulo, the most populous state, 300 teams of
firefighters will inspect all establishments bigger than 1,000
square meters, Globo TV reported. In Manaus, in the Amazon,
authorities also shut down several bars that lacked functioning
fire extinguishers.  “It happened in Santa Maria, but the same thing could
happen” in Rio or anywhere, said Pedro Axelrud, 22, as he was
lunching in Lapa today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  