-- Rising Bond Yields Show Bernanke QE Converges With Growth
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-01-30T21:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/rising-bond-yields-show-bernanke-qe-converges-with-growth.html
Since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in September began a third round of asset purchases
aimed at lowering  interest rates  and spurring growth, bond
yields have climbed. The trend may signal that his program is
working.  Yields on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.99
percent at 4:21 p.m. in  New York  today from 1.72 percent since
the Fed announced new bond buying on Sept. 13, Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices show. Those on bonds backed by home loans have
increased to 2.01 percent as of yesterday from 1.26 percent,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Mortgage-
Backed Securities Index.  Interest rates are climbing as asset purchases help bolster
confidence in economic growth, said  James Hamilton , an economist
whose research on Fed bond buying has been cited by Bernanke.
U.S. stocks have advanced 2.9 percent since Sept. 13 as the
outlook has improved, while yields on  junk bonds  have shrunk to
within 4.78 percentage points of Treasuries as of yesterday from
5.5 percentage points.  “As the economy picks up, we’d expect that would be a
force putting upward pressure on yields regardless of what the
Fed is doing on the bond supply side,” said Hamilton, a
professor at the  University of California ,  San Diego , and former
visiting scholar at Fed district banks including Atlanta and New
York. “That’s what’s happening, and the Fed should be happy to
see it.”  FOMC Decision  The Federal Open Market Committee today decided to keep
purchasing $85 billion of securities each month after the
economy paused because of temporary forces, including bad
weather. The Fed hasn’t set a limit on the size or duration of
its purchases while pushing its total assets beyond a record $3
trillion.  “Growth in economic activity paused in recent months in
large part because of weather-related disruptions and other
transitory factors,” the FOMC said today at the conclusion of a
two-day meeting in  Washington . “The committee expects that,
with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will
proceed at a moderate pace and the  unemployment rate  will
gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent
with its dual mandate.”  The third round of so-called quantitative easing, or QE,
has probably held  mortgage rates  20 basis points to 40 basis
points lower than they otherwise would be, said Jonathan Wright,
former assistant director of the Fed’s Division of Monetary
Affairs. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Signs of
economic strength have obscured those benefits by nudging
interest rates higher, said Wright, an economics professor at
 Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore.  ‘Marginally Improves’  “QE marginally improves the economy, which drives rates
back up,” he said, adding that the current round of asset
purchases lacks the clout of the prior two programs.  “The reactions to recent QE announcements suggest that it
does still have effects, though not anything as big as the pop
you got” from the first large-scale asset program, he said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the benchmark for U.S.
equities, fell 0.4 percent to 1,501.91 at 4 p.m. in New York as
the Fed maintained its stimulus and a report showed the economy
unexpectedly shrank during the fourth quarter.  Gross domestic product contracted at a 0.1 percent annual
rate, the worst performance since the second quarter of 2009,
when the economy was still in a recession, according to Commerce
Department data. A decline in government outlays and a smaller
gain in stockpiles subtracted a combined 2.6 percentage points
from growth. The median forecast of 83 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 1.1 percent gain in GDP.  First Round  Bernanke estimated that the Fed’s first round of securities
purchases, announced in November 2008, reduced the yield on 10-
year Treasuries by between 40 basis points and 110 basis points.
The Fed bought a total of $1.7 trillion in mortgage bonds and
 Treasury securities . The second round, totaling $600 billion and
announced in November 2010, cut yields an additional 15 basis
points to 45 basis points, Bernanke said in a speech in August
at a Fed conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “So far, we think we are getting some effect, it is kind
of early,” Bernanke said Jan. 14 at the  University of
Michigan ’s Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy in  Ann Arbor ,
referring to the current round of bond buying. “We are going to
continue to assess how effective” the program is “because it
is possible that as you move through time and the situation
changes that the impact of these tools could vary.”  Asset Purchases  Rising stock prices and inflation expectations suggest the
Fed’s asset purchases are fueling the expansion, said  Mark Gertler , a New York University economist and research
collaborator with Bernanke. The Fed chairman said last month
bond buying will continue until the job market shows
“substantial” gains. Unemployment in December was 7.8 percent.  “Given the uncertainty about the economy when the Fed
launched QE3, my guess is the Fed is pleased with the outcome
thus far,” Gertler said. “A stronger economy does point to
more jobs.”  Expectations of inflation as measured by the Fed’s five-
year five-year forward breakeven rate, which gauges the
predicted pace of consumer price increases from 2018 to 2023,
rose to 2.88 percent on Jan. 25 from 2.63 after the FOMC meeting
in September. The Fed targets inflation of 2 percent.  Wealth Effect  Rising stock prices may boost consumption through a so-
called wealth effect, said  Paul Dales , a senior U.S. economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . Meanwhile, increasing
inflation expectations will probably stoke borrowing by reducing
the “implied real interest rates,” or expected interest rates
after accounting for inflation, he said.  The effectiveness of asset purchases is at the core of an
FOMC debate over how long to continue the program. The minutes
from the FOMC’s Dec. 11-12 meeting show participants who
provided forecasts were “approximately evenly divided” between
those who said it would be appropriate to end the purchases
around mid-2013 and those who said they should continue beyond
that date.  A number of policy makers are concerned the magnitude of
the Fed’s balance sheet could impair its efforts to tighten
policy when necessary, according to the minutes.  “We have a cost-benefit type of approach” in weighing
whether to push on with asset purchases, Bernanke said in Ann
Arbor.  George Dissent  Not all of Bernanke’s colleagues believe quantitative
easing is worth the risks. Kansas City Fed President Esther George dissented from today’s statement, saying she was
concerned that “the continued high level of monetary
accommodation increases the risks of future economic and
financial imbalances and, over time, could cause an increase in
long-term inflation expectations.”  George gained a policy vote this year as part of an annual
rotation among Fed regional bank presidents on the FOMC. She
said in a Jan. 10 speech she is concerned record stimulus may
cause imbalances in financial markets, citing how prices of
bonds, agricultural land and high-yield and leveraged loans are
near historic highs.  The central bank repeated that the purchases will continue
“if the outlook for the labor market does not improve
substantially,” and also left unchanged its statement that it
planned to hold its target interest rate near zero as long as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and inflation remains no
more than 2.5 percent.  Housing Market  The housing market is recovering as the Fed presses on with
record easing. Combined sales of new and previously owned
properties last year rose 9.9 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, for the biggest annual gain since 1998
and an indication residential real estate is helping drive
growth.  “Household spending and business fixed investment
advanced, and the housing sector has shown further
improvement,” the FOMC said in its statement today.  Home  prices  in 20 U.S. cities rose in the 12 months to
November by the most in more than six years. The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values increased 5.5 percent from
November 2011, the biggest year-over-year gain since August
2006, according to data released yesterday.  “The housing market began a steady rebound” last year,
Chief Executive Officer John G. Stumpf of  Wells Fargo & Co ., the
largest U.S. home lender, said in a conference call with
analysts and investors on Jan. 11. “There is no doubt that a
corner was turned, which is a real positive for our economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in New York at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  