-- Roche Sees Sales Growth at Last Year’s Pace on New Drugs
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-01-30T16:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/roche-sees-2013-sales-growth-at-last-year-s-pace-on-new-drugs.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  forecast that sales
and profit will rise this year, helped by new products such as a
breast-cancer drug that’s slated for approval in February.  Revenue will climb at about the same pace as last year’s 4
percent growth at constant exchange rates, the Basel,
Switzerland-based company said today in a  statement . Core
earnings per share will increase faster than sales, Roche said
as it reported 2012 profit that missed analyst estimates.  Three new cancer drugs helped boost sales last year. Roche,
the world’s biggest maker of oncology treatments, also has
applied for regulatory approval of T-DM1, a breast cancer
medicine that the company expected to bolster a franchise that
includes the drug Herceptin. Roche disappointed some investors
with an 8 percent dividend increase.  “All in all, it’s a decent result,” said Birgit Kulhoff,
a Zurich-based fund manager for Rahn & Bodmer Co. “The only
slightly disappointing aspect is that they have increased the
dividend only by 8 percent, despite the fact that the operating
free cash flow has been rising by 10 percent.”  Roche fell 1.4 percent to 198.60 francs in Zurich. Through
yesterday, the stock returned 34 percent in the past year
including reinvested dividends,  compared with  a 24 percent
return for the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   Higher Profit  Net income last year rose 2.4 percent to 9.77 billion
francs ($10.6 billion) from 9.54 billion francs a year earlier.
Earnings per share excluding some items were 13.62 francs, below
the 13.67-franc average estimate of 24  analysts surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  Revenue climbed 7 percent to 45.5 billion francs. Analysts
predicted 45.3 billion francs, the average of 18 estimates.  The profit forecast was disappointing because, unlike last
year, the company isn’t committing to percentage growth in the
high single digits, but rather only that earnings will rise at a
faster pace than 4 percent, said Eric Le Berrigaud, an analyst
at Bryan, Garnier & Co. in Paris. Analysts will need to reduce
their 2013 profit forecasts, he said. Le Berrigaud cut his
rating on the stock to neutral from buy.  The average analyst estimate is for 2013 earnings of 15.12
francs a share, which would be 11 percent above last year’s
13.62 francs.  FDA Decision  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is due to rule by
Feb. 26 on T-DM1. Review in Europe is under way.  Perjeta, a drug to treat women with a fast-growing type of
breast cancer, had sales of 56 million francs last year after
winning U.S. approval in June. Among other new medicines,
Zelboraf had sales of 234 million francs and Erivedge brought in
29 million francs.  Roche raised the dividend to 7.35 francs a share, the 26th
consecutive increase, though the payout was below the Bloomberg
forecast of 7.40 francs. The proposed payout is “a slightly
disappointing signal,” said Fabian Wenner, a Zurich-based
analyst for Kepler Capital Markets. Kepler has a “buy” rating
on Roche’s shares.  Roche will continue paying down the debt from the $46.8
billion purchase of Genentech in 2009, Chief Executive Officer
Severin Schwan said in a press conference today. The dividend
question, he said, “is really a question of what is the ideal
leverage on our balance sheet.”  Meanwhile, the company will keep looking for small- to mid-
sized acquisitions, Schwan said. Roche walked away from a $6.7
billion bid for U.S. gene-sequencing company  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  last
year after investors held out for a higher offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Basel at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  