-- Rogue Immune Cells Tied to MS Point to New Drug Target
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-01-30T22:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/rogue-immune-cells-tied-to-ms-point-to-new-drug-target.html
Researchers identified a possible
culprit for immune cells’ resistance to regulation in a small
study of multiple sclerosis patients, suggesting a potential new
target for treatment.  T-cells, when working properly, are an important part of
the immune system’s arsenal for fighting off invaders. In MS
patients, however, they can ignore the controlling orders from
regulatory cells and attack the central nervous system. In a
study published today in the journal  Science Translational
Medicine , researchers found one reason this happens in MS.  Scientists at the Benaroya Research Institute and Virginia
Mason Medical Center in  Seattle  identified a protein called
interleukin-6, or IL-6, as a reason for those cells going rogue
in patients with relapsing-remitting MS, the most common form of
the disease.  “We identified a new problem in multiple sclerosis that
hadn’t been identified before,” Jane Hoyt Buckner, an author of
the paper and associate director of Virginia Mason’s  Benaroya
Research Institute , said today in a telephone interview. “Then
we were able to show why that happens in MS patients, which is
this enhanced responsiveness to the cytokine IL-6.”  People with relapsing-remitting MS have more receptors for
IL-6 on the surface of their T-cells, suggesting IL-6 may be a
good target for therapy, Buckner said.  More than 2.1 million people worldwide have MS, a disorder
of the central nervous system that can cause numbness of the
limbs, trouble walking and vision loss, according to the
 National Multiple Sclerosis Society . The most common form is
relapsing-remitting, characterized by sporadic attacks that
degrade neurological function, followed by periods of recovery.  Cell Differences  In the study published today, researchers looked at blood
samples from 24 patients with relapsing-remitting MS who weren’t
taking immunomodulatory therapies. In addition to observing the
implication of IL-6, the scientists also noted cellular
differences among patients based on the severity of their
disease in the previous two years.  “In people with well-controlled or mild MS, we didn’t see
this escape of T-cells” from regulatory control, Buckner said.
“But we did see it in patients who had more active disease over
the previous two years.”  That suggests that T-cells’ resistance to regulation could
be a helpful biomarker for determining the course an MS
patient’s disease might take in the future, Buckner said. She
cautioned that studies would need to be done to test the
hypothesis as a predictive tool.  Treatment Strategies  Such information about disease course may help doctors
decide which medicine to prescribe. If a patient’s disease
looked to be more active, a physician might opt for a more
aggressive therapy, such as  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s Tysabri, over a
milder therapy such as the Biogen’s Avonex or  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Copaxone.  The findings also hint at the potential for new MS drug
development, the researchers said. At least one medicine that
targets IL-6 is on the market, tocilizumab, sold as Actemra by
Basel,  Switzerland-based Roche Holding AG , and others are in
clinical testing. Actemra is used in rheumatoid arthritis.  “You would think that, potentially, if you could block
this receptor or actions of IL-6 on these cells, you might
return their normal sensitivity to regulation and that way you
could suppress the immune response to the central nervous
system,” Bruce Bebo, associate vice president of discovery
research at the  National Multiple Sclerosis Society , said in a
telephone interview. He wasn’t involved in today’s research.  Further Study  Bebo warned that the immune system is complicated and IL-6
may be involved in other areas that would make its use as a drug
target more difficult.  The researchers confirmed the results in two separate
studies with small numbers of people -- the first in 14 patients
with relapsing-remitting MS, and the second in 10, Buckner said.
They compared the samples to those from people without MS.  “Now that we have this finding, it’s exciting and it holds
the promise of us being able to determine who has more severe
disease and identify a group of patients that would respond to
therapy targeting the IL-6 pathway,” Buckner said. “Now we
have to do the studies to thoroughly show that’s true before we
can apply it to patients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  