-- Romania’s Leu Retreats on Bets Central Bank May Limit Advance
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-01-30T16:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/romania-s-leu-retreats-on-bets-central-bank-may-limit-advance.html
Romania’s leu weakened on bets the
central bank may limit the currency’s gain after an
International Monetary Fund mission extended a review of the
country’s backstop loan accord yesterday.  The leu depreciated 0.2 percent to 4.3843 per euro by 5:05
p.m. in Bucharest, after advancing 0.4 percent yesterday, the
biggest jump in almost two weeks. Yields on euro-denominated
bonds due 2019 rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, at 3.93 percent.  The mission extended the review of Romania’s precautionary
loan pact by three months.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
said the nation’s bonds are eligible for entry in their
benchmark emerging-market debt indexes, increasing demand for
the country’s fixed-income securities and currency. The leu has
strengthened 1.5 percent in January, the largest advance among
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “As the central bank might try to keep local market
volatility at low levels, it would also presumably curb any
significant advance of the leu,” Mihai Tantaru, a Bucharest-
based analyst at ING Bank Romania SA, wrote in a note today.  The IMF extended the review of Romania’s 5 billion-euro
($6.8 billion) accord until the end of June after Prime Minister
Victor Ponta asked for more time to complete asset sales,
Mission Chief Erik de Vrijer said in Bucharest yesterday. The
IMF board will meet in June to review  Romania ’s implementation
of pledges it made under the accord, a backstop for the country
in the event of a worsening of the European sovereign debt
crisis.  “With no local news flow, the leu might trade on low
volumes today, with the natural net demand for hard currency
possibly fueling a slight softening to 4.39 per euro,” Tantaru
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  