-- Rupee Rises to Three-Month High on Optimism Inflows Will Climb
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2013-01-30T11:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/rupee-climbs-to-one-week-high-on-optimism-inflows-will-increase.html
India ’s rupee rose to the highest
level since October on optimism the first interest-rate cut by
the central bank in nine months will spur economic  growth ,
attracting investors.  The  Reserve Bank  of India lowered its benchmark repurchase
rate to 7.75 percent from 8 percent yesterday, and said cooling
inflation will give some room to ease monetary policy further.
Global funds poured $4 billion into local bonds and stocks this
month through Jan. 28, boosting debt holdings to an all-time
 high  of $33.5 billion, exchange data show. The government’s 10-
year bonds yield 7.89 percent, while similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries pay 2 percent.  “We expect gradually ebbing inflationary pressures to
facilitate further rate cuts in coming months, which are likely
to promote greater economic growth and foreign inflows,”
analysts at Barclays, including Singapore-based Nick Verdi,
wrote in a report received today. “Emerging-market currencies
that offer carry, such as the rupee, remain attractive against
the backdrop of still-ample global liquidity.”  The rupee advanced 0.9 percent to 53.3050 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
53.2750 earlier, the strongest level since Oct. 18. The currency
has risen 3.2 percent this month. One-month implied volatility
in the rupee, a gauge of expected moves in the  exchange rate 
used to price options, fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 9.75 percent.  Pimco’s Perspective  The Reserve Bank lowered its inflation forecast for March,
the final month of the current fiscal year, to 6.8 percent from
7.5 percent. The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 7.18
percent in December from a year earlier, the slowest pace in
three years, government data show. The monetary authority also
said it will consider India’s fiscal deficit and record current-
account shortfall while deciding policy.  “India still has the challenges of the twin deficits and
the challenge of balancing growth and inflation objectives, but
the trend is positive on fundamentals and policy front,” said
Ramin Toloui, global co-head of  emerging markets  portfolio
management in  Singapore  at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which oversees the world’s largest bond fund. “When you combine
that trend with the valuation, that constitutes a strong
rationale for a long position in the currency.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 54.41 per
dollar, compared with 54.74 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 54.14 versus 54.57. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  