-- Russia’s Clogged Roads May Stall GDP Growth at 3%, Belousov Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-01-30T14:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/russia-s-clogged-roads-may-stall-gdp-growth-at-3-belousov-says.html
Neglecting Russian infrastructure
investment will nip the country’s economic growth at 3 percent,
Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said, urging the government to
loosen the fiscal purse strings and unseal its wealth fund.  “Without eliminating bottlenecks in transport
infrastructure, we can’t ensure growth above 3 percent,”
Belousov told reporters today in Moscow. Insufficient highway
capacity will undercut efforts to improve the investment climate
unless the annual volume of road building is doubled to 4,000
kilometers over the next two to three years, he said.  Russia, struggling to reverse net capital outflow that
reached $56.8 billion last year, faces a shortage of financing
to rebuild Soviet-era roads, ports and energy assets that are
shackling development in the world’s biggest country by area.
The government targets stable 5 percent growth for the economy,
according to Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.  Starting this year, Russia introduced the so-called budget
rule, under which spending will be capped based on long-term oil
prices. All extra revenue from oil and gas sales are funneled
into the Reserve Fund, one of the country’s two sovereign wealth
funds, until it reaches 7 percent of gross domestic product.  The Economy Ministry has suggested reducing the fund’s
target level to 5 percent. When the stockpile reaches that
level, the ministry has proposed creating a development fund
within the budget for infrastructure spending and financing it
with extra revenue from energy sales, according to Belousov.  Irretrievable Investments  Investment in “a major part of projects in transport
infrastructure development will never be recouped,” Belousov
said. “These projects must be funded from the budget -- there’s
no other source.”  The Reserve Fund held $62.1 billion in assets as of Jan. 1,
more than twice the level at the end of last year and 43 percent
below the peak level of $142.6 billion in August 2008. The
stockpile is projected to reach 4.8 percent of GDP by the end of
2013, 5.2 percent the following year and 5.7 percent by
end-2015, according to Russia’s three-year debt strategy
 published  on the Finance Ministry website.  “The 7 percent target is likely to be reached in 2016 or
at the end of 2015, if oil prices stay near $110 a barrel, but
that’s too late,” Belousov said. “We will just lose three
years.”  According to Economy Ministry calculations, reducing the
Reserve Fund’s target level to 5 percent will unlock about 100
billion rubles ($3.34 billion) in 2015 and as much as 400
billion rubles after that, for the proposed development fund,
according to Belousov.  The Reserve Fund must be seen as a rainy-day fund that
enables the government to cushion the budget and economy from
swings in oil prices or international markets, according to the
International Monetary Fund.  “We think 7 percent is a minimum,” Odd Per Brekk, the
senior resident representative of the IMF, said in October. “It
should probably be higher than that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  