-- Russia Record Grain Prices May Slow Exports, SovEcon Says
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-01-30T15:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/russia-record-grain-prices-may-slow-exports-sovecon-says.html
Russia, the world’s third-biggest
 wheat exporter  last season, won’t ship grains at the start of
the 2013-14 marketing season at the same pace as in recent years
because of record domestic prices, SovEcon said.  “Large traders don’t sell new crop contracts now, as they
used to do in previous seasons at this time of year,” Andrey Sizov Jr., managing director of the Moscow-based agriculture
researcher, said today in a phone interview. “Traders don’t
have a clear understanding if they will be able to execute the
contracts.”  Domestic grain prices  made exports unprofitable in the
second part of the current season, which ends June 30, according
to SovEcon. Prices probably won’t fall ahead of harvesting of
the new crop, which may begin in June, as its prospects are
unclear because of a lower-than-average winter crop condition,
Sizov said.  Russia , which has a grain export potential of 30 million
metric tons a year, according to an Economy Ministry estimate,
has never reached that level because of market conditions,
weather difficulties or inadequate technology. The country
achieved record exports of 27.2 million tons last season,
according to ministry data. Shipments may exceed 14 million tons
in 2012-13 and imports may be above 2 million tons, Sizov said.  First Contracts  A less optimistic outlook for the new crop is increasing
uncertainty for traders in judging the size of initial contracts
in the new season, according to Sizov.  “There are less hopes for having a high crop,” he said.
“At best, it may be average.”  If the harvest is near average at 85 million tons next
season, exports may be 15 million tons, Sizov said.  Russia harvested 70.7 million tons of grain in 2012-13, or
25 percent less than a year earlier, after drought last summer,
according to the state statistics data. SovEcon estimated the
new crop at 81 million to 87 million tons in December. The
estimate may be reduced if winter crops are seen in worse
condition at the end of February than they were in autumn, Sizov
said.  The  Agriculture Ministry  estimated today that winter crop
losses came to 9.5 percent on 1.5 million hectares (3.7 million
acres) and the projection may apply to 2 million hectares,
spokesman Evgeny Pavelko said in a text message, citing a report
by Pyotr Chekmarev, head of the ministry’s planting department.  Export Estimate  Chekmarev assessed the potential crop at 95 million tons
and exports at 15 million to 20 million tons in 2013-14, Pavelko
said.  The ministry’s estimates are “extremely optimistic,”
Sizov said. Winter crops’ condition was “below average” by the
start of winter, and more crops may die after December frosts in
areas uncovered by snow, he said.  Russia will probably end this season with carryover stocks
at levels below 10 million tons, which is close to the record
minimum registered in 2007-08 at below 8 million tons, he said.  Wheat for March delivery rose 0.5 percent to $7.8125 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 7:32 p.m. Moscow time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  