-- Russia Bans Pork and Beef Imports From U.S. on Food Additive
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2013-01-30T16:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/russia-bans-pork-and-beef-imports-from-u-s-on-food-additive-1-.html
Russia  banned imports of U.S. pork
and beef starting Feb. 11, saying the meats may contain a feed
additive known as ractopamine.  The decision was made after the U.S. Food Safety and
Inspection Service was unable to guarantee that shipments would
be free of the additive, Rosselkhoznadzor, as Russia’s food-
safety agency is known, said today in an e-mailed statement.
Ractopamine is used to develop lean muscle in livestock,
according to the U.S. Meat Export Federation.  Rosselkhoznadzor this month told veterinary services in
countries whose meat industries use ractopamine, including the
U.S.,  Brazil  and  Canada , that imports into Russia might be
barred if they failed to comply with the requirement. The U.S.
remained the only country unable to guarantee pork and beef
shipped to Russia would be free of the additive,
Rosselkhoznadzor said.  U.S. shipments to Russia of chilled and frozen pork in 2011
were 59,680 metric tons, or almost 9 percent of total national
imports of the meat, Federal Customs Service spokeswoman
Victoria Abramova said today, citing the most recent annual
data. The U.S. exported about 39,000 tons of chilled and frozen
beef to Russia that year, or 6.5 percent of total imports,
according to the service’s data.  The  U.S. National Pork Producers Council , which conducts
public-policy outreach on behalf of its 43 affiliated state
associations, has yet to comment following an e-mailed query by
Bloomberg yesterday.  “Obviously Russia is not the largest market for U.S. pork
producers, but it is still a significant market,” Sergey
Yushin, head of the Moscow-based National Meat Association’s
executive committee, said by phone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  