-- Russian Economy Probably Slowed to Three-Year Low in 2012
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-01-31T10:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/russian-economy-probably-slowed-to-three-year-low-in-2012.html
Russia ’s economy probably grew last
year at the weakest pace since a contraction in 2009 and is set
to slow further, casting doubt on President  Vladimir Putin ’s
drive for an investment-led acceleration in output.  Gross domestic product  expanded 3.6 percent in 2012, down
from 4.3 percent the previous two years, according to the median
of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey . The Economy Ministry
estimated growth at 3.5 percent. The Federal Statistics Service
in Moscow will report the data this week.  The slowdown highlights the challenges facing the world’s
largest energy exporter as  oil prices  are forecast to stagnate
this year and  Europe ’s stumbling economy saps demand for Russian
commodity exports. The government began an open campaign this
month to push the central bank to lower rates, a step the
regulator is resisting because of concerns the economy is
already growing near its potential.  “We need a government that is more proactive on the reform
side,” Peter Westin, chief strategist at Aton Capital in
Moscow, said by phone. “The central bank is doing a good job,
but the government is definitely behind the curve when it comes
to what needs to be done to stimulate the economy.”  Russian stocks lagged behind other  emerging markets , with
the MSCI Russia Index advancing 9.6 percent in 2012, trailing a
15 percent jump in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The  Micex
Index (INDEXCF)  of 50 stocks was little changed, trading 0.1 percent lower
at 1,542.73 at 2:32 p.m. The ruble-denominated gauge trades at
5.7 times  projected earnings , making it the cheapest of 21
emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Critically Important’  Russia faces a “critically important” period over the
next five years as the government targets “steady economic
growth” of at least 5 percent a year, Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said at a government meeting in Moscow today. Speaking
at the same event, Putin pointed to the economy’s “slowdown”
over the last two quarters and said high  interest rates  are
affecting bank lending.  “The main risks aren’t external, but domestic,” Medvedev
said. “The potential of development in the context of a
traditional export-oriented model has practically been
exhausted.”  Economy Slumps  GDP probably expanded 2.4 percent in the final three months
of last year compared with the same period a year earlier,
according to the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
Growth reached an estimated 2.2 percent, Deputy Economy Minister
 Andrei Klepach  told reporters Jan. 29.  The deceleration is likely to continue well into next year,
according to Evgeny Nadorshin, chief economist at AFK Sistema, a
Russian  investment company  with assets ranging from
telecommunications to oil.  “Russia’s economy is hitting the brakes, and the December
data show growth slowing in the very important areas” of
investment and consumer demand, Nadorshin said. “Economic
growth is not only at its potential, but the room to increase
output is exhausted. We’re close to the point of overheating
that we neared before the crisis.”  ‘Achilles Heel’  Fixed-capital  investment  contracted in annual terms in
December for the second time in four months, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said in a report last week.
Sluggish spending by companies to boost output has become the
“Achilles heel” of the economy, according to Klepach.  “Interest rates for companies today are at a level that is
really stifling investment,” Economy Minister Andrei Belousov
told reporters yesterday in Moscow.  The central bank raised borrowing costs in September,
becoming the largest emerging market to do so last year. First
Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said this month he doesn’t see
any potential gains from reducing interest rates.  The  joblessness rate  fell to 5.3 percent in December,
putting it below the full employment rate of about 6 percent,
according to Aton’s Westin. That means competition for workers
may start to push up wages, stoking inflation that overshot the
central bank’s 6 percent target last year.  The government is looking to investment as a source for
growth amid signs that household consumption, which accounts for
about half the economy, is stumbling. Real wages advanced at the
slowest pace in more than three years in December, which may sap
buying power.  Putin’s Target  Putin, 60, ordered his government on May 7, the day of his
inauguration for a third term as president, to increase
investment to 25 percent of economic output by 2015, up from 21
percent in 2011. The government has taken steps including hiring
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to deliver that message to foreign
investors.  Still, policy makers are a long way from meeting Medvedev’s
target for stable 5 percent growth, said  Alexander Morozov ,
chief economist for Russia at HSBC Holdings Plc in Moscow. In a
best-case scenario, steps taken now may have an effect on the
economy in 2014, he said.  “It’s impossible to do instantaneously,” Morozov said.
“They need to change their policy, focusing not so much on
stimulating modernization and innovation as on serious steps to
reduce obstacles for business.”  Egypt, Pakistan  Russia is 112th in the  World Bank ’s  Ease of Doing Business 
Index, behind countries including  Egypt , Pakistan and  Papua New
Guinea . Putin ordered his ministers in May to boost Russia’s
standing to 50th by 2015 and to 20th by 2018.  The economy will grow a little more than 2 percent in the
first six months of this year and just over 4 percent in the
second half, Klepach said Jan. 29. Potential growth is between 4
percent and 5 percent, and the central bank could help by easing
monetary policy, he said.  “We take this statement as negative guidance for 2013,
suggesting a lack of new growth drivers,” Natalia Orlova and
Dmitry Dolgin, analysts at  Alfa Bank  in Moscow, said in a
research note yesterday. “We do not rule out deceleration of
GDP growth to below 2 percent year-on-year in the first
quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  