-- Ryanair Targets Frugal Business Travelers With Allocated Seating
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-01-30T14:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/ryanair-targets-frugal-business-travelers-with-allocated-seating.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s
largest discount airline, said it’s luring more business
passengers away from established airlines as travelers shun
higher fares and benefit from options such as allocated seating.  Corporate customers now make up about 22 percent of
passengers at the Irish budget airline, Chief Executive Officer
 Michael O’Leary  said in an interview in Kaunas, Lithuania,
today. Ryanair introduced reserved seating on all routes in
January 2012, and O’Leary said the high frequency of Ryanair
flights also appeals to those travelers.  “It’s a combination of low fares in a recession where
businesses are increasingly saying everyone must travel at low
fares” and the “breakdown of business class as a product,”
O’Leary said.  European low-cost carriers like Ryanair and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  are
refining their no-frills, discount models to attract more
corporate clients, a market traditionally dominated by full-
service airlines. EasyJet, led by CEO Carolyn McCall, has also
rolled out allocated seating, flexible tickets, and used
corporate agents to attract business travelers.  Reserving a seat on a Ryanair flight costs an additional 10
euros ($13.55) and gives customers exclusive access to the front
rows and the two rows over the wings. Ryanair operates an all-
Boeing fleet of single-aisle jets.  British Airways (IAG) ,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  Air France-KLM (AF) 
Group have sought to raise the appeal of their business-class
offerings to corporate travelers, with BA honing its menu and
Lufthansa has created more arm space on the high-price front of
a plane. Still, the carriers are likely to continue to cede
short-haul business that doesn’t feed their major long-haul hubs
to carriers like Ryanair and EasyJet, O’Leary said.  “There won’t be an opportunity for people, when the
economy recovers, to go back to flying these kind of short-haul
airlines with their high fares and fuel surcharges, because I
don’t think the services will be there,” O’Leary said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  