-- Saint-Gobain’s $1.2 Billion Fine Said to Be Cut Over EU Error
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-30T10:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/saint-gobain-s-1-2-billion-fine-said-to-be-cut-over-eu-error.html
Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA ’s record 896
million-euro ($1.2 billion) cartel fine may be reduced by
European Union regulators within weeks as officials seek to
correct a calculation error, according to two people familiar
with the decision.  Regulators will make small reductions in the penalty
because they made a mistake in the way they evaluated car-glass
sales, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the fining process isn’t public. A 370 million-euro fine against
Pilkington, a  Nippon Sheet Glass Co. (5202)  unit, may also be reduced
for the same reason, one of the people said.  Saint-Gobain,  Europe ’s largest building-materials supplier,
was handed the  highest EU fine  against a single company in 2008
for plotting with rivals to fix the price of car windows sold to
auto manufacturers from 1998 to 2003. Saint-Gobain’s penalty was
increased because the company was a repeat offender already
punished for a separate cartel to fix prices for glass used in
the  construction industry .  Tokyo-based  Asahi Glass Co. (5201) ,  Japan ’s largest glassmaker,
and Soliver of  Belgium  were also fined by the EU for the car
glass cartel. The 1.3 billion euros in fines imposed on the four
companies was the highest for a cartel until being surpassed
last month by a 1.47 billion-euro penalty for companies
including Royal Philips Electronics NV and LG Electronics for
fixing prices of TV-parts.  Court Appeal  The European Commission, the EU’s Brussels-based antitrust
Authority, and Sophie Chevallon, a spokeswoman for Saint-Gobain
in Courbevoie near Paris, declined to comment. David Roycroft, a
spokesman for St. Helens, England-based Pilkington Group Ltd.,
didn’t return a call and an e-mail seeking comment. Nippon Sheet
Glass also didn’t respond to an attempt to contact the company
via its website. Asahi Glass’s press office also declined to
comment.  Saint-Gobain and Pilkington have challenged the fines at
the EU’s General Court in Luxembourg.  Volvo Car Corp. , a Swedish carmaker owned by Zhejiang Geely
Holding Group Co., separately sued Pilkington at  London ’s High
Court for “substantial” damages for overcharging for
windshields and other car glass, Volvo’s law firm said in 2010.
Nippon Sheet Glass, also based in the Japanese capital, bought
Pilkington in 2006.  EU antitrust fines are based on sales of products concerned
and are capped at a maximum of 10 percent of companies’ total
annual revenues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 