-- Samsung, Krka, DuPont, Campbell: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-30T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/samsung-krka-dupont-campbell-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest smartphone maker, asked a judge in Japan to dismiss
Apple Inc.’s appeal in a patent-infringement case won by the
South Korean company in August.  Samsung and Apple representatives made their first oral
arguments before Judge Shuhei Shiotsuki at the  Intellectual
Property  High Court in Tokyo yesterday. The next round will be
held March 21, the judge said.  The case is one of dozens in which the world’s two largest
smartphone makers are using their patents to try to force each
other into changing products or removing some models from store
shelves. They are fighting for increased share of a mobile
device market that researcher  Yankee Group  expects to double to
$847 billion by 2016.  In August, the Tokyo District Court ruled that Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung’s smartphones and a tablet computer didn’t
infringe an Apple invention for synchronizing music and video
data with servers. Apple, the Cupertino, California-based maker
of iPhones, claimed that the Galaxy S, Galaxy Tab and Galaxy S
II infringed the patent on synchronization, and sought 100
million yen ($1.1 million) in damages, according to court
documents.  Slovenia’s Krka Ordered to Pay Damages to Merck on Asthma Drug  Krka Group d.d. , Slovenia’s biggest drug company, was
ordered to pay almost 630,000 euros ($846,000) to  Merck & Co. (MRK) 
after a Finnish appeals court overturned a ruling on patent
infringement of Merck’s Singulair asthma treatment.  Krka failed to prove that the process to produce the
substance montelukast doesn’t infringe a Merck patent, the Court
of Appeals in Helsinki found, the Novo Mesto, Slovenia-based
company said in a regulatory statement yesterday. Krka said it
is considering an appeal to the Finnish  Supreme Court .  The lawsuit was filed by Merck units in Finland,  Canada  and
the Netherlands in September 2009. Krka was ordered to pay
629,737 euros, with interest from Dec. 31, 2010, it said. Merck
is based in  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey.  Apple Seeks Patent on Sensor to Communicate Shoe-Wear Status  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and iPhone, applied for a
patent on a technology that will detect when shoes are wearing
out.  Application  20130021152 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  on Jan. 24, covers what
Cupertino, California-based Apple calls a “shoe wear-out
sensor.”  The sensor will determine whether the shoe is providing the
wearer with adequate support, regardless of its outward
appearance, according to the application. When a critical level
of wear is reached, the feet may be damaged, Apple said.  The shoe sensor will be able to tally the number of
repetitive actions, while taking into account variables such as
the weight of the wearer, Apple said.  Apple applied for the patent in July.  Since 2006,  Nike Inc. (NKE)  of Beaverton,  Oregon , has released a
running shoe with a sensor that communicates data to an Apple
iPod.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  DuPont Responds to Easton-Bell Lawsuit by Filing Own Case  DuPont Co. (DD) , the maker of Corian countertops and Tyvek
packaging materials, sued a California maker of sports equipment
for trademark infringement.  Easton-Bell Sports Inc. of  Scotts Valley , California, is
accused of making unauthorized use of DuPont’s “Kevlar”
trademark. DuPont said the size of the Kevlar trademark on
Easton-Bell’s packaging is even larger than the California
company’s own mark, according to the complaint filed Jan. 28 in
federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  DuPont said it first registered the mark with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office in 1974, and that “ Kevlar ” is used
to cover resins for synthetic fibers and protective apparel.  Easton-Bell has sold and marketed bicycle tires and locks
in packaging displaying the Kevlar trademark since July,
according to court papers. Such products are sold through
retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and
Amazon.com Inc., DuPont said.  The Wilmington-based chemical company says it’s harmed by
Easton-Bell’s actions and that efforts to resolve the dispute --
including the offer of a license agreement -- have failed.
Instead, Easton-Bell sued in federal court in San Francisco Jan.
18, seeking a court declaration that it didn’t infringe the
DuPont trademark.  In its pleadings, Easton-Bell said it has bought Kevlar
from authorized distributors and resellers for at least six
years and used it in bike tires and locks. Indicating on its
packaging that the products contain Kevlar “has no likelihood
of causing confusion,” the company claimed.  The California company said it declined the license offered
by DuPont “on the grounds that the fees sought were exorbitant,
given Easton-Bell’s limited and fair use of the mark.”  In addition to seeking a declaration of non-infringement,
Easton-Bell asked the court to bar DuPont from trying to
prohibit the sports-gear company from using “Kevlar,” and for
an award of the cost of the litigation.  In its complaint, DuPont asked the court to halt Easton-
Bell’s use of the mark, and for the recall of all of the
California company’s goods and promotional material bearing the
mark, including those possessed by customers. DuPont seeks an
order for the destruction of the items, and for an award of
Easton-Bell’s profits attributable to the alleged infringement.  Additionally, DuPont asked for money damages and requested
they and the awarded profits be tripled. The company also seeks
attorney fees and litigation costs.  The DuPont case is E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co. v. Easton-
Bell Sports Inc., 1:13-cv-00150, U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington). The earlier case is Easton-Bell Sports
v. E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co, 3:13-cv-00283, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Campbell, Chicken Soup for the Soul Settle Trademark Dispute  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  and publisher of a series of
inspirational books settled their trademark dispute, according
to a Jan. 25 court filing.  Terms of the accord with Chicken Soup for the Soul
Publishing of Cos Cob, Connecticut, weren’t disclosed in the
filing in federal court in Camden,  New Jersey . Litigation costs
and attorney fees weren’t awarded, according to the filing.  Chicken Soup for the Soul Publishing formed an alliance in
July with branding company Daymon Worldwide Inc. to produce a
line of branded food products. They founded a jointly owned
company, Chicken Soup for the Soul Foods.  At the time, Bill Rouhana, chief executive officer of the
publishing company, said that for years, fans had encouraged the
company to come out with a food line.  Campbell, based in Camden, filed the trademark suit
October, claiming that images it had seen of the proposed
packaging indicated that the new food company was trying to
trade off the soup maker’s fame. The trade dress -- which is
protected by U.S. trademark law -- was “extremely and
confusingly similar to that offered by  Campbell Soup ,” the
company said. Daymon was also a defendant in the case.  Campbell accused the new food company of embarking on “an
unlawful campaign to lure consumers into purchasing their
chicken noodle soup and related goods” under the mistaken
belief that they were sponsored by or affiliated with Campbell.  The soup company asked the court to bar the use of what it
claimed was an infringing label design, and for the recall and
destruction of any promotional materials that would violate that
order.  The company also sought awards of money damages and profits
related to the alleged infringement, together with attorney fees
and litigation costs.  The case is CSC Brands LP v. Chicken Soup for the Soul
Publishing LLC, 1:12-cv-06569, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Camden).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Delhi University Students Fight Against Copyright Injunction  Students at the  Delhi School of Economics  have created an
association to oppose a court order barring a college photocopy
shop from making copies of academic tests, the Deccan Herald
 reported .  They were responding to the Oct. 18 court order obtained by
 Oxford University Press , Cambridge University Press and Taylor &
Francis, according to the newspaper.  In that ruling, the court also said that compiling
photocopied course packs is illegal, the newspaper reported.  The students are arguing that under Indian copyright law,
students are guaranteed the right of access to educational
materials, the Deccan Herald reported.  Christmas Decor Company Seeks Non-Infringement Declaration  A Hong Kong company that sells illuminated Christmas
figures filed a lawsuit seeking a U.S. court declaration it’s
not infringing the copyrights of a Taiwan resident.  City-Talent Ltd. said it received a cease-and-desist letter
from Jing-Sheng Yang of Taiwan City warning that it infringed
his copyrights.  According to Bloomberg data, Yang has filed more than 10
copyright-infringement suits since 2001, targeting such
retailers as Dollar Tree Stores Inc., Big Lots Stores Inc.,
Target Corp. and  Rite Aid Corp. (RAD)  All of the other suits were
dismissed without being tried, City-Talent said.  City-Talent claims that Yang isn’t entitled to claim the
rights to the copyrights he asserts. The Hong Kong company is
asking the court to declare that its distribution and sales of
illuminated figures are valid and don’t violate Yang’s rights.  Yang isn’t the author of the subject matter covered by the
copyrights, which is in the public domain, City-Talent said in
the complaint filed in federal court in Dallas. The figures that
Yang claimed a copyright on are an illuminated choir angel and
an illuminated snowman on skis, according to the complaint.  City-Talent says it suffered damages as a result of Yang’s
claims, and the copyright-infringement claims are a form of
unfair competition.  The company asked the court to declare that it has the
right to distribute and sell its figurines in the U.S. and that
they don’t infringe Yang’s copyrights. City-Talent also
requested an order barring Yang from asserting that the
figurines infringe his copyrights, and awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is City-Talent Ltd. v. Yang, 3:13-cv-00374, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  