-- HSBC’s $7.4 Billion Sale of Ping An Stake Set to Expire
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-31T02:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/hsbc-s-7-4-billion-sale-of-ping-an-stake-set-to-expire-tomorrow.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s agreement to
sell a $7.4 billion stake in  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318) ,
 China ’s second-largest insurer, to Thai billionaire Dhanin
Chearavanont is set to expire tomorrow.  HSBC agreed on Dec. 5 to sell its 15.6 percent holding in
Ping An to Dhanin’s Charoen Pokphand Group Co. for about $9.4
billion. The first stage, for about HK$15 billion ($1.9
billion), was completed Dec. 7. The pact for the rest expires if
China’s insurance regulator doesn’t approve the deal by 11:59
p.m. tomorrow and the two sides don’t agree to an extension.  Speculation that the sale may be rejected mounted following
reports that China Development Bank Corp. withdrew loans and CP
Group got some funding from businessman Xiao Jianhua. Failure of
the deal, which would generate $2.6 billion in profit for HSBC,
would be a setback for Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver 
as he seeks to revive earnings.  “The odds are high that the agreement will be extended,
given that the buyer may need more time to prove its ability to
finance the purchase,” said Olive Xia, a Shanghai-based analyst
at Core Pacific-Yamaichi International Ltd. “CP Group has a
strong motivation to make the deal happen because its purchase
price is much lower than the current market price.”  Shares Increase  Shares in Ping An , China’s second-largest insurer, slipped
0.5 percent to HK$69.60 at 10:05 a.m. in  Hong Kong . That’s a
gain of 21 percent since Dec. 4, the day before the sale was
announced, and 18 percent above the HK$59-a-share that CP Group
agreed to pay. Core Pacific’s Xia yesterday raised her  price
estimate  to HK$79.50.  HSBC rose 0.1 percent to HK$88.15 today.  Gareth Hewett, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for HSBC,
declined to comment on the progress of the deal, as did a press
official at the China Insurance Regulatory Commission who asked
not to be identified due to the agency’s policy. C.K. Suthana
Hongthong, CP Group’s assistant vice president for corporate
communications, also declined to comment.  “If the deal doesn’t come through, Ping An is the one to
be impacted instead of HSBC,” said Steven Chan, an analyst at
Citic Securities International Co., who recommends buying the
bank’s shares. “There would be overhang on Ping An because of
doubts on when HSBC will sell its stake, and how.”  Caixin Online reported in December that about two-thirds of
CP Group’s payment for the first phase came from other investors
and that Ping An’s management may have helped finance the
Chinese backers. Both the insurer and CP Group denied the report
at the time.  China Development Bank  halted loans to the Thai company
because of the involvement of undisclosed investors, Caixin
reported on Jan. 8. Xiao said in a Dec. 23 statement that he
wasn’t involved in the transaction, according to that report.  Regulatory Review  CIRC asked Ping An for more information about the
transaction, the regulator said Jan. 10, after conducting a
preliminary review of the application. It didn’t give details
about the information requested.  HSBC reaffirmed on the same day that its original
statement, which said China Development Bank would finance part
of the purchase, was still accurate. A day later, CP Group said
it has the resources to complete its planned purchase.  The sale is the 37th divestment by Gulliver, 53, who is
seeking to focus on growing economies in which the bank has the
greatest market share. It would have followed the March 2011
sale of general insurance units in  Asia  and  Latin America  for
about $914 million.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  