-- HSBC Hires Tax, Anti-Terror Chiefs for Controls Panel
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-01-30T13:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/hsbc-names-tax-police-and-anti-terror-chiefs-to-controls-team.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  appointed former
U.S. Deputy Attorney General James Comey and ex-U.K. tax chief
Dave Hartnett to a panel to combat financial crime after the
bank paid $1.92 billion to settle money-laundering probes.  Comey, who will be a non-executive director at HSBC, joins
Bill Hughes, 62, ex-head of the Britain’s Serious Organised
Crime Agency; Juan Zarate, a former George W. Bush
administration counter-terrorism adviser, and former U.K.
diplomat Nick Fishwick, 54, in providing advice, London-based
HSBC said in a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver ’s attempts to
reduce costs and improve profitability have been hurt by U.S.
probes and by compensation claims from U.K. clients. A Senate
committee said in July that lax oversight by top HSBC executives
gave terrorists and drug cartels access to the U.S. financial
system. The December settlement by Europe’s biggest bank by
market value to end investigations into money laundering is the
largest of its type reached in the U.S.  The financial system vulnerabilities committee “will
provide invaluable guidance and advice as we strengthen our
capabilities,” Gulliver, 53, said in the statement. “The
caliber, status and experience of the individuals reinforce once
more how seriously we are taking this.”  Drug Financing  The HSBC committee will provide guidance on anti-money
laundering systems and controls, tax transparency, preventing
terrorist financing and drug financing, the bank said.  Hartnett, 61, who was the top official at Her Majesty’s
Revenue and Customs, told parliamentarians in October 2011 he
“made a mistake” in agreeing to forgive Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. of as much as 20 million pounds ($31.6 million) in taxes.
The deal resulted in Goldman Sachs paying back taxes it owed on
National Insurance payments for bankers’ bonuses, while forgoing
interest payments.  Leonard Schrank, CEO of Swift, the bank-owned money-
transfer service, from 1992 to 2007 will also advise the
committee. In 2006, Swift was found by European Union privacy
regulators to have broken privacy rules by giving records to
U.S. counter-terrorism investigators.  Earlier this month, HSBC hired Ruth Horgan from KPMG LLP as
global head of regulatory compliance after David Bagley quit in
July over the lender’s failure to guard against money
laundering.  Bagley was among HSBC executives who testified before the
Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations after the
panel released a 335-page report describing a decade of
compliance failures by the bank. A day before the settlement,
HSBC appointed Robert Werner, previously head of the U.S.
Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, as head of group financial
crime compliance and group money laundering reporting officer.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  