-- HSBC Judge Urged to Approve $1.9 Billion Drug-Cash Accord
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-31T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/hsbc-judge-urged-to-approve-1-9-billion-drug-cash-accord.html
U.S. prosecutors asked a federal
judge to sign off on  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s $1.9 billion settlement
of charges it enabled drug cartels to launder millions of
dollars in trafficking proceeds.  The Justice Department yesterday filed a brief in federal
court in  Brooklyn , New York, defending the deal, under which
 Europe ’s largest bank can avoid further prosecution. U.S.
District Judge John Gleeson last month told both sides to
justify the accord, saying there had been “some publicized
criticism” of it.  The agreement is justified because it includes the largest-
ever forfeiture in the prosecution of a bank and provides for
monitoring to prevent future violations, prosecutors said.  “These strict conditions, and the unprecedented forfeiture
and penalties imposed, serve as a significant deterrent against
future similar conduct,” the government said.  HSBC was accused of employing lax oversight procedures for
transactions in  Mexico  and other areas considered at risk for
 money laundering . The London-based bank failed to monitor more
than $670 billion in wire transfers and more than $9.4 billion
in purchases of U.S. dollars from HSBC Mexico, prosecutors said.  $881 Million  Lack of proper controls allowed the Sinaloa drug cartel in
Mexico and the Norte del Valle cartel in Colombia to move more
than $881 million through HSBC’s U.S. unit from 2006 to 2010,
according to the U.S.  HSBC “ignored the money-laundering risks associated with
doing business with certain Mexican customers” in those years,
the government said in court papers. Knowing of deficiencies in
its anti-money-laundering programs, the bank reduced resources
for them “to cut costs and increase profits,” according to the
U.S. statement, filed in December.  Under a deferred-prosecution agreement, HSBC won’t contest
the statement of facts or criminal charges of failing to
maintain an effective anti-money-laundering program, failing to
conduct due diligence, and violating the Trading with the Enemy
Act and International Emergency Economic Powers Act.  The bank will pay a $1.25 billion forfeiture and $665
million in civil penalties, prosecutors announced in December.  The case is U.S. v. HSBC Bank USA NA, 1:12-cr-00763, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn, New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 