-- Severn Tidal Power Subsidy Below Offshore Wind, Close to Nuclear
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-01-30T14:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/severn-barrage-subsidy-may-be-lower-than-wind-close-to-nuclear.html
The Severn Barrage project probably
will require subsidies at about the same level as nuclear power
stations and less than what’s offered for offshore wind plants,
the developer of the British tidal energy project said.  “We expect that the price we will be able to negotiate
will fall below offshore wind, and we hope close to or perhaps
at the price nuclear power is currently negotiating,” Gregory
Shenkman, chairman of Hafren Power Ltd., said at a hearing in
the House of Commons in London today. That would make the
project economically viable, he said.  The comments are aimed at answering the criticism that the
technology that’s not working at a commercial scale anywhere in
Britain would cost too much. Estimates for what the dam-like
structure spanning the river at the southern end of  Wales  ran up
to 25 billion pounds ($39 billion).  The Hafren plans, put to Prime Minister  David Cameron  in
July, involve an 11-mile (18 kilometer) barrage from Cardiff in
South Wales to Weston-super-Mare in Somerset. Its 1,026 turbines
would generate power on tides as the sea rises and falls. The
project may create about 20,000 construction jobs and 30,000
manufacturing and service jobs.  “We plan to finance this project entirely from private
sources, and it’s taken five to six years to get here so far. So
far 18 million pounds has been spent, so there is money out
there and it has been invested,” said Shenkman.  Energy Bill  Government support for the barrage would likely be through
so-called contracts for difference, which guarantee a price for
power in a way that supports generators. The structure of those
contracts is sketched out in energy legislation proposed by the
government and working its way through Parliament.  If wholesale power prices drop below a government-
established level known as the “strike price,” investors in
nuclear power and renewable projects will be compensated by
suppliers up to that level. If prices are higher, suppliers and
consumers will be reimbursed by investors. Strike prices will be
set at the end of the year.  The next stage is an environmental impact assessment,
public consultation and the preparation of a “hybrid bill” for
Parliament to approve authorizing construction.  Hafren is now raising funds for the next 18 months of work.
After that, the company would need to pursue another
fundraising, which would be “very much larger” and finance
nine years of construction.  Project Setback  An earlier blueprint for the development was scrapped in
2010 because it relied too much on taxpayer money. The
government said in May 2011 the Severn was open for privately-
financed projects that support the U.K.’s goal of getting 15
percent of its power from renewables by 2020. The barrage could
fulfil 16 percent of that target and be capable of generating as
much as 5 percent of the U.K.’s power, the government estimates.  The project would need 30 years of support through
subsidies. Thereafter, it would run for at least 90 years
without support, generating electricity that’s 75 percent
cheaper than all other forms of generation, Shenkman said.  Across its 120 year life span, the project could produce
power at about 48 pounds-a-megawatt-hour, less than the 88
pounds nuclear power costs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  