-- Sex Impossible for Most Men After Prostate Therapy
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-01-31T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/sex-impossible-for-most-men-after-prostate-therapy.html
Only 10 percent of men treated for
early  prostate cancer  could sustain an erection sufficient for
sex 15 years later, said researchers who found impotence rates
were the same whether the treatment was surgery or radiation.  The findings were produced by the longest and broadest
study on quality of life outcomes in two common therapies for
prostate cancer. Researchers repeatedly surveyed 1,655 men
diagnosed with localized disease and given surgery or external
beam radiation.  While surgery patients had higher impotence rates two years
after treatment, by 15 years erection failure “was nearly
universal” with both treatments, according to the study
reported yesterday in the  New England Journal of Medicine . The
research adds to the controversy over whether doctors treat men
with early prostate cancer too aggressively.  “This is a picture of what really happens in prostate
cancer,” said  David Penson , an urologist at Vanderbilt
University Medical Center in Nashville,  Tennessee , and a senior
author on the study. “It is the most comprehensive portrait of
the patient experience in prostate cancer that is out there.”  Last May, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force advised
against using the prostate-specific antigen blood test to spot a
tumor, saying the screening leads to over treatment and
unnecessary side effects. In July 2012, a 731-patient study
comparing prostate cancer surgery with observation found no
statistical difference in death rates between the two groups
after 10 years.  “We are starting to realize we are over treating this
disease,” Penson said in a telephone interview. Some low-risk
patients with prostate cancer “don’t need treatment.”  29,000 Deaths  More than 238,000 American men are diagnosed with prostate
cancer each year, and more than 29,000 die from it, making it
the second-leading cause of cancer death in men, according to
the  American Cancer Society . Most cases are discovered before
the cancer spreads. In those cases, patient survival is almost
100 percent over five years.  In the  Vanderbilt  study, 87 percent of men treated with
surgery were impotent at 15 years, while 93.9 percent of those
treated with radiation therapy were impotent. The median age at
the start of the study in 1994 was 64 for men in the surgery
group and 69 for men in the radiation therapy group. Most
reported not being bothered by the problem.  The study didn’t have a comparison group of older men
without prostate cancer, so it was impossible to parse out how
much of the impotence was due to the prostate treatment versus
other age-related problems.  Side Effects  In terms of other side effects, men who had radiation
therapy had more bowel urgency after two years, while men who
received surgery had higher rates of urinary incontinence after
the same period of time. By 15 years, though, there was no
significant difference in rates of bowel urgency or urinary
incontinence between the two groups, according to the results.  “For a guy who is looking at this, it is a quantity versus
quality of life question,” said Penson. “What am I trading off
from a survival benefit, and if I choose to do therapy, what is
the quality-of-life hit going to be?”  The results make a case for monitoring the disease in more
men without immediately treating it, Penson said. Under such a
strategy, called active surveillance, doctors perform regular
biopsies and blood tests, and only proceed with curative
treatment if the prostate disease shows signs of progressing, he
said.  Active surveillance “is certainly what I would do if I had
low-risk prostate cancer,” he said.  Patients should quiz their doctors about how advanced their
prostate disease is and what the risk is that it will spread
before they assume they need immediate curative treatment,
Penson said.  “There is much more openness” now among doctors about
holding off on treatment for those who are at low risk of dying
from their prostate cancer, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  