-- Shell Not Liable for Most Nigeria Spill Claims, Dutch Court Says
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-01-30T10:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/shell-not-liable-for-most-nigeria-spill-claims-dutch-court-says.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest oil company, isn’t liable in four out of five claims
bought by Nigerian farmers for pollution, a Dutch court ruled.
The company’s local venture must pay compensation in one case.  “Shell Nigeria has been sentenced to pay damages in one of
the cases,” Henk Wien, judge of the District Court of The
Hague, said today. “In the four cases as regards an oil spill
in 2004 near the village of Goi and as regards an oil spill in
2005 near the village of Oruma, Shell Nigeria had taken
sufficient precautions to prevent the sabotage from its
underground pipelines.”  In October 2012, four Nigerian villagers took Shell’s
Nigerian unit to court. The fishermen and farmers, together with
environmental group Milieudefensie, accused the oil company of
polluting land and waterways around their homes in the Niger
Delta region.  “We will appeal this ruling,” Geert Ritsema, a spokesman
for Milieudefensie, told reporters. “We’re flabbergasted and
the people have not seen justice.”  Shell said in a statement before the judgment that the oil
spills were caused by acts of sabotage and that the court lacks
jurisdiction to rule on the liability of a unit that is based in
Nigeria. Shell said it repaired and cleaned up the spills.  Serious Situation  “We’re satisfied with the outcome, but none of this helps
resolve the local situation which is serious because of the
sabotage,” Allard Castelein, Shell’s vice-president for
environment, told reporters at the court. “It’s too early to
say whether we will appeal, we will study the ruling, but I
don’t think this will give us reason to appeal.”  The district court ruled that in two oil spills near the
village of Ikot Ada Udo Shell Nigeria violated a duty of care
and shall be held liable for negligence, according to Wien.
Shell Nigeria could and should have prevented this sabotage by
installing a concrete plug before 2006.  The three villages that were named in this case as being
polluted are Goi, hit by a spill in 2004, Oruma, affected by a
spill a year later, and Ikot Ada Udo, hit by various spills in
2007.  Shell,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Exxon Mobil Corp.,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni
SpA (ENI)  pump more than 90 percent of Nigeria’s oil through ventures
with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  