-- Slovenia, Croatia Close to NLB Solution as EU Entry Nears
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-01-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/slovenia-croatia-are-close-to-nlb-solution-as-eu-entry-nears.html
Slovenia and  Croatia  made progress
toward resolving a dispute over Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,
easing concern that Slovenia would fail to approve its former
Yugoslav partner’s entry into the European Union.  The two countries are “close to a solution” in the
dispute over savings of NLB’s predecessor, Slovenian Foreign
Minister Karl Erjavec and his Croatian counterpart,  Vesna Pusic ,
said late yesterday after talks in Brussels. Both ministers will
meet again on Feb. 6 in Slovenia along with banking experts from
the two nations to finalize an accord.  “After that meeting, I expect we will be able to start the
approval process of Croatia’s European Union entry,” Erjavec
told reporters.  “As we near the solution, Croatia will also withdraw
lawsuits at Croatian courts over the dispute since it will
become immaterial,” Pusic said.  The ministers gave no further details on the possible
solution to the dispute, which has strained relations since both
countries became independent in 1991.  Slovenia, a member of the 27-nation EU since 2004, has said
the bank dispute must be resolved for the country to approve
Croatia’s EU accession treaty. Analysts including Timothy Ash at
Standard Bank Plc in  London  have said a political crisis in
Slovenia, which may lead to early elections, could jeopardize
Croatia’s aim to join the EU this year.  Slovenia was plunged into political turmoil with the risk
of an early vote after a partner left the coalition government
of Prime Minister  Janez Jansa . Jansa, who is accused by the
anti-corruption agency of failing to declare his private assets,
has said he will push on with an economic overhaul even with a
minority government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  