-- Southern Co. Profit Increases on Colder Temperatures
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-01-30T12:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/southern-co-profit-increases-on-colder-temperatures.html
Southern Co. (SO) , the second-largest
U.S. power company by market value, said fourth-quarter profit
rose 44 percent as operating and maintenance costs declined and
colder weather boosted energy use.  Net income rose to $399 million, or 44 cents a share, from
$277 million, or 30 cents, a year earlier, Atlanta-based
Southern said in a statement on PR Newswire today. Excluding
one-time items, per-share profit was more than the 40-cent
average of 16  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Temperatures in the last three months of 2012 dipped below
average in the four southeastern states Southern serves, the
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  said on its
website. Weather-driven demand for heating in Georgia,
Southern’s largest market, rose 9.4 percent from a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A drop in temperatures from 2011’s abnormally warm fourth
quarter should benefit Southern “because a lot of heating in
their states is electric,” Mark Barnett, a Chicago-based
utilities equity analyst with Morningstar Inc., said in a phone
interview before the earnings were released.  Total kilowatt-hour sales rose 2.4 percent from the same
period a year earlier. Operating expenses fell 7 percent to
$2.89 billion in the quarter as revenue rose less than 1 percent
to $3.7 billion.  Southern has 4.4 million customers in  Georgia , Alabama,
Florida and  Mississippi  and capacity to generate more than
43,000 megawatts of electricity, according to its website.
That’s enough to power about 34.4 million homes, according to a
U.S. Energy Department estimate.  The company’s results were announced before the start of
regular U.S. trading. Southern gained 0.6 percent to $44.62
yesterday in  New York . The shares have four buy, 13 hold and
five sell  recommendations  from analysts.  Duke Energy Corp. is the largest U.S. utility owner by
market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  