-- S. Korean Output Unexpectedly Climbs on Domestic Demand
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-01-30T00:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/south-korean-output-unexpectedly-climbs-on-domestic-demand-1-.html
South Korea’s industrial production
unexpectedly rose in December as strength in domestic demand
offset weakness in exports.  Output rose 1 percent from November, compared with the
median estimate of nine economists in a Bloomberg News survey
for a 1.5 percent fall. Production gained 0.8 percent from a
year earlier.  South Korea’s government is frontloading budget spending in
the first half to spur economic growth as won gains and yen
weakness aid export rivals in  Japan .  Asia ’s fourth-largest
economy may grow about 3 percent this year after a 2 percent
expansion in 2012, according to Hoe Ee Khor, the country mission
chief for the  International Monetary Fund .  “Output is better because of an improving domestic
economy,” said An Ki Tae, a Seoul-based economist at Woori
Investment & Securities Co.  Separately, the current account surplus narrowed to $2.3
billion in December on decreased overseas shipments of steel,
electronics and cars, compared with a revised record surplus of
$6.9 billion in November, the  Bank of Korea  said in a statement
in Seoul today. The current account is the broadest measure of
trade, tracking goods, services and investment income.  The won closed at 1,082.60 yesterday in Seoul. Gross
domestic product grew 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter, picking
up pace after two periods of deceleration.  China, U.S.  Economic pickups in  China  and the U.S. are boosting the
outlook for South Korean shipments and declines in the won in
the second half of this month have eased pressure on exporters
after the currency rose more than 8 percent against the dollar
last year.  “Sustained improvements in China and signs of stronger
U.S. conditions will support manufacturing conditions, even if
growth in  Europe  remains sluggish,” Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, said before the release.  Samsung Electronics Co. said the stronger won may cut
operating profit by at least 3 trillion won ($2.8 billion) this
year after reporting a 76 percent increase in fourth-quarter
profit on Jan. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  