-- Spy-v-Spy on`Americans’; Lindy’s Baby; Split: TV Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/spy-v-spy-on-americans-lindy-s-baby-split-tv-review.html
It’s 1981. Juice Newton is on the
radio and President  Ronald Reagan  is ratcheting up the “Evil
Empire” rhetoric.  Life is about to get much tougher for the attractive
Jennings family.  “ The Americans ” stars Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys as
Soviet agents posing as suburban Washington yuppies during the
Reagan era. If it doesn’t rise to the highest level -- not yet
anyway -- FX’s sneaky new drama comes closer than any other new
show this season.  Created by Joe Weisberg, a former CIA spook who has written
for the so-so sci-fi series “Falling Skies” and the better
“ Damages ,” the new series is, at its frequent best, a marriage
drama disguised as a spy thriller.  Russell and Rhys play Elizabeth and Philip Jennings, travel
agents and loving parents of 13-year-old Paige (Holly Taylor)
and 10-year-old Henry (Keidrich Sellati).  Back in  Russia , they were trained as ruthless KGB agents,
paired in an arranged marriage and dispatched to the American
heartland.  Tied Up  Now a nosy FBI agent (Noah Emmerich) has moved into the
neighborhood -- coincidence? -- and the defector who’s bound and
gagged in the trunk of the Jennings’s family car needs tending
to.  Elizabeth votes for a quick kill (the captured Russian
turncoat is both her former captain and rapist), while Philip
wonders whether the cutthroat life is worth all the trouble.  “America’s not so bad,” he muses, shortly after taking the
kids to a new shopping mall.  He gets a quick, hard face-slap from Elizabeth, whose
loyalty to the Motherland is unwavering.  “This country,” she says in not-mock horror, “doesn’t turn
out Socialists!”  Russell (“ Felicity ”) and especially Rhys (“ Brothers &
Sisters ”) are captivating in their subtle suggestions that the
state-sponsored romantic union has evolved into something
neither character expected: a real marriage.  The espionage stuff is hit and miss. The arrival of
Emmerich’s FBI man feels more contrived than the arranged
marriage, though a tense near-showdown suggests the dramatic
set-up might pay off splendidly, and well before Perestroika.  Judging from the first two episodes, however, “The
Americans” will focus as much on the marital rift as on the  Cold
War , and for the better.  “The Americans” airs Wednesday on FX at 10 p.m. New York
time. Rating: ****  Lindbergh Baby  The much-investigated murder of aviator  Charles Lindbergh ’s
baby son gets yet another going-over, this time in “ Who Killed
Lindbergh’s Baby? ” on PBS.  Bruno Richard Hauptmann still dunnit. The German immigrant
executed in 1936 for the kidnapping and murder of Charles
Lindbergh Jr. gets no pardon here.  But Hauptmann certainly had help, says former FBI profiler
 John Douglas . The brains behind the crime, he suggests, was a
Bronx delicatessen owner and Hauptmann acquaintance named John
Knoll.  Douglas’s theory was outlined last year in Robert Zorn’s
book “Cemetery John: The Undiscovered Mastermind of the
Lindbergh Kidnapping.”  With modern profiling techniques, forensics and a hunch or
two, Zorn and Douglas lay out their case in this “NOVA” episode.  I won’t spoil it by revealing how the investigators reach
their verdict -- non-conclusive as it is -- except to say I
wasn’t entirely convinced. (And a red herring about the Nazi-
sympathizing aviator himself seems ludicrous).  Still, the notorious crime continues to exert pull,
reasonable doubts notwithstanding.  “Who Killed Lindbergh’s Baby?” airs Wednesday on PBS at 9
p.m.  New York  time. Rating: **1/2  Jekyll, Hyde  NBC’s Jekyll & Hyde drama “ Do No Harm ” is the silliest thing
in a lab coat since that monkey on last fall’s “Animal
Practice.”  A schizodrama that can’t decide which face to wear -- dark
comedy? violent chiller? -- “Do No Harm” stars Steven Pasquale
(“ Rescue Me ”) as a brain surgeon with a double personality.  For reasons too absurd to detail, Pasquale’s good-guy Dr.
Jason Cole transforms into the cocaine-snorting, orgy-loving
sociopath Ian Price every evening.  Shooting Down  To prevent mayhem, Cole self-injects a powerful sedative
nightly to keep Ian in check. But a growing resistance to the
drug is loosing his Hyde on an unsuspecting world.  Pasquale, who deserves better, is okay at pulling off the
Hulk-like transformations, but creator David Schulner (“The
Event”) presents this nonsense straight-up.  “Embrace the Ian in you,” advises Cole’s support-group
sponsor. Unfortunately, he’s not joking.  “Do No Harm” airs Thursday on NBC at 10 p.m. New York time.
Rating: *1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 