-- STMicroelectronics Sees Costs Ahead in Chip Venture Exit
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-01-31T12:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/stmicroelectronics-may-seek-500-million-to-help-restructure.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s
largest competitor in  Europe , will spend as much as $500 million
to exit its unprofitable wireless-chip venture with  Ericsson AB (ERICB) ,
as demand starts to recover in other segments.  The semiconductor manufacturer, based in Geneva, is
finalizing plans to pull out of ST-Ericsson by the third
quarter. Shutting down the venture is one of the options being
considered, Stockholm-based Ericsson has said.  “The first priority for 2013 is the transition out from
ST-Ericsson,” Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti  said during
an earnings call, forecasting costs of $300 million to $500
million this year. “It is important for us to move on.”  Bozotti, 60 and in his eighth year as chief, has pushed to
put more chips into cars and game consoles as mobile-phone
manufacturing customers  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and BlackBerry maker  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  work on plans to come back from a sales slump.  STMicroelectronics shares rose 0.7 percent to 6.17 euros at
1:05 p.m. in Paris, taking the gain to 15 percent this year and
giving the company a market value of 5.63 billion euros.  Demand Pickup  Semiconductor demand other than for wireless technology
will pick up this year after early signs of a recovery across
geographies and product segments, Bozotti forecast today.
Competitor  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  also predicted demand will
improve.  First-quarter revenue may drop 7 percent, plus or minus 3.5
percentage points, from a quarter earlier, because of weak sales
at the ST-Ericsson venture, STMicroelectronics said in a
statement. The decline would be about 3 percent excluding the
venture. The gross margin will be 31.4 percent, plus or minus 2
percentage points.  “We are now starting to see some recovery,” Bozotti said.
“Demand reached bottom in 2012 for ST products.”  The fourth-quarter net loss widened to $428 million from
$11 million a year earlier, dragged down by $544 million one-
time costs mainly from a writedown of wireless assets,
STMicroelectronics said yesterday. Sales fell 1.3 percent to
$2.16 billion, compared with the $2.12 billion  average analyst
estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit Drag  The semiconductor industry has suffered in the past months
from rapid swings in demand and stiff competition from Asia.
Bozotti said pricing pressure in the market remains strong in
the first quarter.  At the ST-Ericsson venture, formed in 2009, sales were hit
as large customers such as Nokia and Research in Motion lost
market share to Apple Inc.’s iPhones and Samsung Electronics
Co.’s smartphones that use Google Inc.’s Android software. Plans
were announced in April to eliminate 1,700 jobs and transfer
some product development to STMicroelectronics.  Ericsson, STMicroelectronics’ partner in the wireless
venture, said today all options were being considered for ST-
Ericsson, including shutting the unit down. The network
equipment vendor recorded an expense of 8 billion kronor ($1.3
billion) last quarter to write off the venture.  Bozotti declined to say how exiting ST-Ericsson may affect
jobs at the unit and declined to detail the options being
considered. “We are working with all our stakeholders,” he
said. The French and Italian states, which together hold 27.5
percent of the company, are STMicroelectronics’ biggest
shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  