-- Stocks in Switzerland Decline as KOF Indicator Weakens
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-01-30T16:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/stocks-in-switzerland-decline-as-kof-indicator-weakens.html
Swiss stocks  declined for a second
day, paring a monthly gain, as reports showed the country’s
economy may weaken in the first half of the year and U.S. gross
domestic product unexpectedly fell in the fourth-quarter.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  lost 1.4 percent after posting 2012
earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.  UBS AG (UBSN)  slipped 2.5
percent after Exane BNP Paribas lowered its recommendation on
 Switzerland ’s largest bank.  The  SMI (SMI)  retreated 0.9 percent to 7,387.90 at the close in
Zurich. The gauge has still advanced 8.3 percent since Jan. 1,
for the biggest gain at the start of the year since the SMI came
into being in 1988, as the Swiss franc weakened against the euro
and U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also decreased 0.9 percent today.  “Switzerland’s stable growth and low inflation have been
welcomed by investors, leading to a strong start to the year,”
said Daniel Weston, chief investment officer at Aimed Capital
Management LLC in Munich. “The weakness in the leading-
indicator data has given investors a reason for profit taking,
amid a bullish trend.”  Switzerland’s  KOF economic indicator  decreased for a fourth
month in January, suggesting the economy may weaken in the first
half of this year.  The monthly gauge, which aims to predict the economy’s
direction about six months ahead, dropped to 1.05 from a revised
1.29 in December, the KOF Swiss Economic Institute in Zurich
said. Economists forecast a retreat to 1.20, the median of 13
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  U.S. Economy  The  U.S. economy  unexpectedly contracted in the fourth-
quarter, the worst performance since the second quarter of 2009.
Gross domestic product dropped at a 0.1 percent annual rate,
Commerce Department figures showed. Economists on average
forecast growth at a 1.1 percent annual rate.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 3 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Roche dropped 1.4 percent to 198.60 francs after the
world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs reported  full-year
earnings  excluding some items of 13.62 francs per share, missing
the average analyst estimate of 13.67 according to a Bloomberg
survey. Sales will rise this year at about the same pace as last
year at constant exchange rates, Roche said in a statement.  Banks Drop  UBS slid 2.5 percent to 15.84 francs after Exane BNP
Paribas lowered its recommendation on the shares to neutral from
outperform, citing uncertainty about the future of its
investment bank.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  slipped 1.4 percent to 26.72 francs.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s biggest maker of Swiss
watches, retreated 1.9 percent to 492 francs.  Swatch’s Chinese retail partner, Hengdeli Holdings Ltd.,
fell in Hong Kong trading after Next magazine said it lost
exclusive distribution license to sell brands including Omega,
Rado and Longines. Swatch’s collaboration with Hengdeli hasn’t
changed, the Swiss company’s chief executive officer, Nick Hayek, said in a telephone interview. He also forecast continued
growth in the mainland Chinese market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  