-- Stretched Petrobras Squeezes Saipem in Brazil, Alphavalue Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-01-30T17:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/stretched-petrobras-squeezes-saipem-in-brazil-alphavalue-says.html
Brazil ’s bid to develop the largest
crude finds in the past decade is “ridiculously aggressive”
and oil services suppliers such as  Saipem SpA (SPM)  could be hurt,
according to Alphavalue, an equity research company.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, “will be late, underfunded, stretched and failing to
deliver,” Alphavalue analysts including Alexandre Andlauer said
in a note today. “Suppliers will suffer. Saipem is the first
warning shot.”  Saipem SpA plunged a record 39 percent in Milan trading
after  Europe ’s largest oil-service provider cut profit
forecasts. The Italian company said delays to large contract
awards in Venezuela, Nigeria and  Iraq  contributed to the lower
guidance as well as lower margins on orders in Brazil.  Petrobras, the world’s biggest deep-water oil explorer,
plans to spend $236 billion from 2012 to 2016 to develop fields
containing as many as 50 billion barrels of crude. The oil is
trapped under a layer of salt below the Atlantic seabed.  “Costs are higher than what Petrobras had thought and they
are putting pressure on suppliers,” Andlauer said. “Saipem may
have taken losses on early contracts to get market share in
Brazil.”  The Italian oil-services provider cited “low margin”
orders in Brazil on a conference call yesterday.  “Saipem has taken some investment and commercial decision
to support market entry into Brazil, where the first contracts
were entered into at lower margins,” Chief Executive Officer
Umberto Vergine said. “The impact of this contract decision
will be primarily felt in 2013.”  Flexible Pipes  Technip SA (TEC) , Europe’s second-largest oilfield-services
provider, is also expanding in Brazil. In February the Paris-
based company won a five-year order from Petrobras to supply
$2.1 billion of flexible pipes for offshore oil projects. It
plans to start up a second pipe plant in Brazil later this year.
Technip shares fell 7.1 percent in Paris today.  “Going to the moon may be cheaper and less risky these
days that this deep offshore saline drilling,” Alphavalue said
of Petrobras’ $240 billion investment plans. “It would be great
news if Saipem were to be the only one being caught short.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  