-- Swatch’s Hayek Sees China Market Expanding About 10% in 2013
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2013-01-30T21:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/swatch-s-hayek-sees-china-market-expanding-about-10-in-2013.html
Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker
of Swiss timepieces, forecast growth in mainland China’s watch
market this year amid increasing concern that a slowdown in the
Asian country may cloud the outlook for luxury-goods makers.  The market will expand by about 10 percent in 2013, Chief
Executive Officer Nick Hayek said yesterday by telephone, adding
that growth may be more or less than his forecast.  “We see very good business in the mid-range and entry-
level” with brands such as Longines and Tissot, Hayek said.
“In the high-end, they might have a little bit less sales, but
you can’t grow every year by 50 or 60 percent.”  Hayek’s forecast comes after growth in exports of Swiss
timepieces to China slowed to 4.4 percent in the first 11 months
of 2012. Shipments to the country rose 49 percent in 2011,
according to the Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the world’s second-biggest
luxury-goods company, said Jan. 21 that sales in the Asia-
Pacific region stalled during the three months through December.
Decelerating growth in China is a concern for luxury companies.
Chinese buyers account for 25 percent of global luxury spending,
according to a September HSBC Global Research report.  Hayek said he sees “no reason” for the Swiss watch
industry not to have “healthy growth” this year. Swatch said
Jan. 10 that gross revenue climbed 14 percent in 2012 and that
the first days of January indicated “positive growth.”  ‘Somewhat Conservative’  “Given the 20 percent to 30 percent growth over last few
years for Hong Kong and China combined, Hayek’s forecast might
be seen as somewhat conservative and take the market by
surprise,” said Jon Cox, head of Swiss research at Kepler
Capital Markets in Zurich. He estimates that the Chinese watch
market will expand 10 percent in 2013.  Swatch shares  fell 1.9 percent to close at 492 francs in
Zurich trading yesterday, and Richemont dropped 1.6 percent to
75.20 francs.  “Richemont is the world’s biggest maker of luxury Swiss
watches, so a slowdown in the high end would impact it more than
someone like Swatch, which has a broader portfolio,” Cox said.  Biel, Switzerland-based Swatch’s collaboration with Chinese
retailer  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389)  hasn’t changed, Hayek also said.  Hengdeli shares fell the most in more than three years in
Hong Kong trading yesterday after Next Magazine said the company
lost an exclusive distribution license to sell some brands. The
stock fell 13 percent, the most since June 2009.  “Swatch Group is a big shareholder and we’re very happy,”
Hayek said. “The development is very good -- there is no
irritation in our collaboration.”  Hengdeli, in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange
yesterday, didn’t comment directly on the Next Magazine report,
saying only that operations are “normal, healthy and stable,”
and that “the company has maintained good partnerships with
numerous worldwide renowned watch suppliers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  