-- Swedbank Promises Bigger Dividend Amid Fourfold Profit Surge
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-01-30T06:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/swedbank-promises-bigger-dividend-amid-fourfold-profit-surge.html
Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , the second-best
capitalized major lender in the European Union, raised its
dividend payout ratio to 75 percent of profit after its net
income in the fourth quarter more than quadrupled.  The Stockholm-based bank proposed a dividend of 9.9 kronor
($1.55) per share, compared with 5.3 kronor a year earlier, it
said in a statement today. Net income rose to 4.34 billion
kronor, from 965 million kronor a year earlier, when Swedbank
booked a 1.9 billion-krona impairment on its goodwill related to
 Latvia . Profit beat the average 3.54 billion-krona estimate of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg as net interest income and fee
and commission income jumped and total costs slumped.  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , Swedbank and SEB AB are the three
best capitalized major lenders in the European Union, giving
them scope to distribute more to shareholders at a time when
many other European lenders are trying to preserve cash to meet
stricter capital rules. The three Swedish banks already fulfill
 Sweden ’s requirement of 10 percent core Tier 1 buffers of their
risk-weighted assets from this year and 12 percent from 2015.
Swedbank’s core Tier 1 ratio rose to 17.4 percent in the fourth
quarter, from 17.3 percent in the third.  The decision to raise the dividend payout policy “is
supported by the bank’s robust earning capacity and low risk,
combined with limited credit demand in the foreseeable future,”
Chief Executive Officer  Michael Wolf  said in today’s statement.
“With the new dividend policy, we will continue to build
capital in the bank, but not as quickly as before.”  Swedbank had previously had a dividend payout policy of 50
percent of profit.  Capital Target  Handelsbanken had a core Tier 1 ratio of 17.9 percent at
the end of September, while SEB’s stood at 16.5 percent.  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s largest lender, had a ratio of 12.2
percent.  “Based on our stress tests and a conservative view of what
pending regulations will ultimately look like, Swedbank’s
executive management believes we need a common equity Tier 1
ratio of 13 to 15 percent when all the new rules have fully
taken effect,” Wolf said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  