-- U.K. May Train Algerian Army in Counter-Terrorism
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-01-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/u-k-may-train-algerian-army-in-counter-terrorism.html
U.K. Special Forces may train the
Algerian Army in counter-terrorism techniques as part of a
security partnership agreed between Prime Minister  David Cameron 
and Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika.  Cameron, the first U.K. premier to visit Algeria since it
gained independence in 1962, is looking to deepen ties with the
north African nation in the wake of the hostage crisis there
this month and a battle against Islamists in neighboring Mali.  “Britain and Algeria will stand together in the fight
against terrorism,” Cameron told reporters at a joint press
conference with Bouteflika in the presidential palace in Algiers
late yesterday. “We’ve agreed that we should have a much
stronger strategic partnership.”  During the In Amenas attack, in which 38 foreign workers
died, six of them British, Cameron expressed frustration at the
difficulty of getting information from  Algeria . He had never
spoken to the country’s prime minister, Abdelmalek Sellal,
before the crisis. The agreement saw the two countries pledge to
share intelligence and create links between security experts.  Both Kim Darroch, Cameron’s national security adviser, and
John Sawers, head of the Secret Intelligence Service, known as
MI6, were part of the British delegation.  According to a senior government official who declined to
be identified, an offer of training from Britain’s Special Air
Service and Special Boat Service, who have decades of experience
of counter-terrorism and hostage rescue work, is also part of
the discussion.  Hostage Rescue  U.K. special forces have cooperated with Nigerian armed
forces. In 2012, they worked together in a failed attempt to
rescue a British and Italian hostage.  According to Cameron’s office, the agreement covers the
exchange of information between security experts on border and
aviation security, countering explosives, and crisis response.  “The focus is very much on working with these countries to
help protect their security and the security of British people
in the region,” Cameron told reporters on the plane to Algiers.  The prime minister said following the attack at the In
Amenas plant, in which 29 militants also died, that Western
nations face a “generational struggle” against al-Qaeda
extremism in West and North Africa. British security officials
have been warning since at least 2010 that North Africa is a new
breeding ground for terrorism.  Cameron’s office said this week that the U.K. is ready to
deploy as many as 200 British military personnel to West Africa
to help train a regional intervention force for  Mali , as well as
contributing 40 people to a European Union training group.  He repeated that there would be no British combat troops
sent to Mali.  France  has deployed 2,500 soldiers and West African
countries are sending an initial 3,300 to Mali to help clear the
north of the country of Islamist forces. Western donors pledged
more than $450 million this week to support the African
operation at a meeting in  Addis Ababa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Algiers at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  