-- U.K. December Mortgage Approvals Increase More Than Forecast
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-30T11:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/u-k-december-mortgage-approvals-increase-more-than-forecast-1-.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals  rose more
than economists forecast in December in a sign the Bank of
England’s credit-boosting program is having an impact on home
loans.  Lenders granted 55,785 mortgages, compared with 54,011 in
November, the central bank said today. That’s the most since
January and the highest for a December since 2009. Economists
forecast 54,500 approvals, based on the median of 21 estimates
in Bloomberg News survey. Net mortgage lending rose 1.04 billion
pounds ($1.64 billion), the biggest increase since April.  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said this month that
credit conditions have eased and should improve further as the
impact of the Funding for Lending Scheme “kicks in.” Property
research company Hometrack Ltd. said on Jan. 28 that while the
housing market had a “slow start” to 2013, it’s in “slightly
better shape than at the start of the previous two years.”  “The U.K. mortgage market is gradually thawing and should
continue to do so, in part because of the BOE’s FLS,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in  London  and a former Bank
of England official. “We should see further improvements in
coming months, but with the economy stagnant it may be some time
before the U.K. gets back to more normal levels of housing-
market activity.”  Separate BOE data today showed that overseas investors
increased their holdings of U.K. government bonds for a sixth
straight month in December. Non-residents bought 15.4 billion
pounds more gilts than they sold, after increasing their
holdings by 2.3 billion pounds in November. The December
increase is the biggest since November 2011.  Lending Data  The pound was little changed against the dollar and traded
at $1.5762 as of 10:48 a.m. London time, after falling to a
five-month low of $1.5675 on Jan. 28. The yield on the benchmark
10-year U.K. government bond rose 2 basis points to 2.1 percent.  Hometrack said U.K.  house prices  stagnated in January after
declining for the previous six months. Data last week showed
Britain’s economy contracted 0.3 percent in the final quarter of
2012, raising the prospect of a triple-dip recession.  While mortgage approvals are increasing, they are still
only about half the monthly average in the decade to 2007, when
the financial crisis struck.  The Bank of England lending data showed that  consumer
credit  increased 649 million pounds in December, with credit-
card lending up 232 million pounds. Gross mortgage lending rose
to 12.4 billion pounds, the most since March.  In a separate report, the BOE said that  money supply  rose
0.7 percent in December from the previous month. From a year
earlier, M4 was down 1 percent.  “These data are consistent with a continued modest
improvement in the credit picture,” said Jens Larsen, chief
European economist at RBC Capital Markets in London. “But the
data are hardly suggesting a credit boom.”  A measure of M4 money-supply growth the central bank uses
to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases slowed to a
quarterly annualized 3.8 percent from 4.8 percent. The gauge
excludes financial companies that specialize in intermediating
between banks, such as holding companies and non-bank credit
granters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  