-- U.K. Nuclear Waste Vote Leaves Government Searching for Sites
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-30T16:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/u-k-nuclear-waste-vote-leaves-government-searching-for-sites.html
A county council in northern  England 
voted against hosting an underground nuclear waste disposal
facility, leaving the U.K. government searching for new sites.  Cumbria County Council also agreed to seek new investment
from the government to improve existing surface storage at
Sellafield, the atomic fuel reprocessing site which is the
biggest store of the U.K.’s historical waste, according to an e-
mailed  statement  today.  The decision may hinder plans to build new nuclear plants
in the U.K. by companies including Electricite de France SA,
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ,  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA.  David King , the
former government’s chief scientific adviser, has said the lack
of a long term-disposal strategy may jeopardize plans to build
new plants.  “I am confident that the program to manage radioactive
waste safely will ultimately be successful, and that the
decisions made in Cumbria today will not undermine prospects for
new nuclear power stations,” Energy and Climate Change
Secretary  Ed Davey  said today in an e-mailed statement.  The U.K. has about 162,000 cubic meters of high-,
intermediate- and low-level radioactive waste at 36 sites,
according to the latest figures on the website of the Nuclear
Decommissioning Authority. All of the high-level waste, the most
radioactive form, is at Sellafield, as is two-thirds of the
intermediate waste, according to the data.  Future waste from the dismantling of existing nuclear
facilities in the U.K, which would also need to be stored, was
estimated to total 4,550,000 cubic meters, according to the NDA.  The government is trying to pick a site for a nuclear
repository on a voluntary basis that gets local agreement. It
plans to have an underground storage facility by 2040.  It is “absolutely vital that we get to grips with our
national nuclear legacy,” Davey said. “The issue has been
kicked into the long-grass for far too long.”  Cumbria, along with the borough councils of Copeland and
Allerdale, which both lie in that county, were the only
candidates expressing interest in hosting a potential disposal
site.  “There is sufficient doubt around the suitability of West
Cumbria’s geology to put an end now to the uncertainty and worry
this is causing for our communities,” Cumbria County Council
Leader Eddie Martin said in the statement. “The Government’s
efforts need to be focused on disposing of the waste underground
in the safest place, not the easiest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  