-- U.K. Must Prepare for Local-Government Budget Failures
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-01-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/u-k-must-prepare-for-local-government-budget-failures.html
The U.K. needs to do more to ensure
local governments don’t suffer financial failure as a result of
cuts to funding as demand for essential services increases, the
 National Audit Office  said.  A survey of English local authorities, responsible for a
quarter of managed public expenditure in the U.K., found 12
percent expect not to be able to balance future budgets,
according to a report published by the spending watchdog in
 London  today. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition
government is cutting support for  England ’s 353 local councils
by 7.6 billion pounds ($12 billion), or 26 percent, between
April 2011 and March 2015 to help narrow the  budget deficit .  “The Department for Communities and Local Government will
need to be able to detect emerging problems and respond flexibly
and quickly,” Amyas Morse, the head of the NAO, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Local authorities are facing the challenge
of reducing spending while protecting the services they
provide.”  Local councils are required to fulfill 1,335 statutory
responsibilities, ranging from child protection to housing and
road maintenance, the NAO said, and there is increasing demand
for high-cost services, including social care for adults and
children.  The biggest cuts have been to planning and development, the
NAO said, and there have been high-profile campaigns to protect
libraries and parks.  Failure ‘Untested’  “The accountability framework for local government to
address widespread financial failure is untested,” the watchdog
said. “Where there have been ‘one-off’ failures requiring
central government intervention, the failure regime has managed
to resolve them. However, past failures in the local government
sector have generally related to services or corporate
governance, or both, and not financial failure.”  Margaret Hodge , the opposition Labour Party chairwoman of
the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee, said her panel
will be asking the government for a full assessment of the
effect of funding changes on local services.  “Authorities will have to search harder and wider for
future savings, as quick-win cost reductions have already been
harvested from services representing a small proportion of their
overall spending,” Hodge said in an e-mailed statement. “This
will need to be done without closing the door to people who rely
on these services in their communities, particularly the most
vulnerable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  