-- U.S. Spring to Start Cool in Northeast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-30T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/u-s-spring-to-start-cool-in-northeast.html
Spring will start cool and then heat
up in the U.S. Northeast amid scant relief from drought
conditions in the Great Plains, according to  AccuWeather Inc.’s 
latest forecast for March, April and May.  The Northeast will probably have below-normal temperatures
during the beginning of spring as increased storminess keeps the
region overcast and weather patterns in the Atlantic bottle up
colder air, said Jack  Boston , an expert senior meteorologist for
the  State College , Pennsylvania-based forecaster.  “We think it is going to be a spring with a split
personality,” Boston said by telephone yesterday.
“Temperatures will be below normal for the month of March and
as we head through the spring, things should get better and
better. By late April and into May, it is going to get just
gorgeous.”  March is the last month of the heating season in the
continental U.S., when most of the natural gas and heating oil
is burned to warm homes and businesses. Cooler temperatures in
the large cities of the Northeast often translate into higher
energy prices.  While storms may be prevalent in the Northeast, the parched
soil of the Great Plains probably won’t see any relief, Boston
said.  “Drought begets drought,” Boston said. “We’re looking
for it to be warmer and dryer than normal from the east slope of
the  Rocky Mountains  to the Corn Belt.”  Drought Monitor  As of last week, 58 percent of the area in the 48
contiguous U.S. states was afflicted by drought, according to
the U.S.  Drought Monitor  in Lincoln,  Nebraska . About 6.4 percent
of the area had the worst of the drought.  Boston said the dry soil will help raise temperatures in
the area above normal and that that will just add to the parched
conditions.  The drought has shriveled shipping channels in the
 Mississippi River , boosted corn prices to a record $8.49 in
August and left farmers short of livestock feed for animals.  Boston said neutral water temperatures in the central
 Pacific Ocean  may mean an active tornado season this April and
May across the U.S. South and up into the Ohio Valley.  The U.S. is struck by about 1,300 tornadoes a year,
according to the U.S.  Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,
 Oklahoma . About 60 people die annually in the storms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  