-- Tuberculosis Hiding in Bone Marrow Helps Deadly Bacteria Survive
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-01-30T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/tuberculosis-hiding-in-bone-marrow-helps-deadly-bacteria-survive.html
Tuberculosis  can hide in peoples’
bone marrow, lying dormant after aggressive drug therapy and
emerging years later to re-infect, according to a finding that
may help explain why the disease is difficult to eradicate.  One third of the world’s population, more than 2.2 billion
people, are infected with the deadly bacteria that causes TB. A
four-drug cocktail of antibiotics and other drugs are typically
prescribed for a minimum of six months in an effort to wipe out
the disease. Still, most remain vulnerable even after treatment.  Investigators writing today in  Science Translational
Medicine  said they have uncovered the first evidence of
tuberculosis nestled in mesenchymal stem cells in the bone
marrow of people treated for the disease. The bacteria’s hideout
in the self-renewing cells, where they capitalize on protection
from the body’s own immune system, may explain how the germs
survive. The next step is to find out how a re-infection is
triggered, and then how to stop it, researchers said.  “Tuberculosis has remained a terrible health threat
despite the proliferation of knowledge, diagnostics and
treatment,” said lead researcher Antonio Campos-Neto, director
of the Center for Global Infectious Diseases at the  Forsyth
Institute  in  Boston , in a statement. “By gaining a greater
understanding of latent TB, we can potentially save hundreds of
thousands of lives each year.”  More than 1.4 million people die from tuberculosis every
year,  according  to the U.S. Centers for Disease and Prevention.  Natural Resistance  The findings build on similar discoveries with other
ailments, including cancer, said Dean Felsher, a professor of
oncology at Stanford University School of Medicine and a senior
author of the paper. Oncologists have long known that self-
replicating bone marrow stem cells have other properties that
make them hard to eradicate, such as natural resistance to
drugs, infrequent division and protection in the immune system.  “Now it turns out that this  ancient organism ,
Mycobacterium tuberculosis, figured out a longtime ago that, for
the same reasons, these cells are ideal hosts to invade and in
which to hide,” he said in a statement.  The researchers started looking into bone marrow in the
hunt for tuberculosis after Bikul Das, now a postdoctoral
scholar at Stanford, found the bacteria in bone marrow biopsies
conducted on his patients in  India  for other conditions. Work
using mice showed the bacteria survived even when the cells
weren’t dividing, and it could subsequently spur infections in
other mice that were exposed to the infected  stem cells .  Stem Cells  A study of nine patients in India who completed a full
course of therapy for tuberculosis and had no detectable
bacteria in their systems confirmed the pathogen could conceal
itself in the  mesenchymal  stem cells. The adult cells normally
are able to develop into bone, fat or cartilage. In eight of the
nine patients, the cells also contained tuberculosis DNA. Living
bacteria was detected in two of the patients.  “Not only is this strong evidence that the tuberculosis
can remain dormant in stem cells, but it shows that the living
bacteria could be recovered from these cells after a long period
of time,” Das said. “We now need to learn how the bacteria
find and infect this tiny population of stem cells, and what
triggers it to reactivate years or decades after successful
treatment of the disease.”  The study was funded by the  Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation , the U.S. National Institutes of Health, the Canadian
Cancer Society and other philanthropic institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  