-- Unemployed U.K. Man Made $1 Million on Insider Tips: FSA
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-01-30T17:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/unemployed-u-k-man-made-1-million-on-insider-tips-fsa.html
An unemployed British man made
692,644 pounds ($1.09 million) spread-betting with inside tips
he received about upcoming mergers, a lawyer for the U.K.
Financial Services Authority said.  Richard Joseph, 43, traded on information he received from
Ersin Mustafa, who worked in the print room at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s Cazenove unit, FSA lawyer  Michael Bowes  told a jury today,
the first of Joseph’s London criminal court trial.  Joseph, unemployed since the summer of 2000, was charged
with conspiring to trade on shares of Abbot Group Ltd.,  Fiberweb
Plc (FWEB) , IMI Plc, Expro International Group Plc, Greene King Plc and
Aero Inventory Plc, based on the tips from Mustafa between
September 2007 and July 2008.  Joseph made payments of more than 268,000 pounds to
Mustafa, who also passed on tips from his brother, Ali, who
worked at the  UBS AG (UBSN)  print room, prosecutors said. Ersin Mustafa
fled the U.K. in December 2009 and is believed to be in Northern
Cyprus, Bowes said.  The tips “allowed Richard Joseph to trade at a substantial
advantage to the rest of the market,” Bowes told the jury.
“Insider dealing is a type of fraud. Put simply, it’s
cheating.”  Six Charges  Joseph pleaded not guilty to six charges of conspiracy to
commit insider trading and will provide his defense later in the
trial. He had worked in the finance industry in  London  in the
late 1990s, for London Capital Group Holdings Plc, an online-
trading firm, and International Clearing Associates (London)
Ltd., Bowes said.  The second firm, a futures-trading company, collapsed in
2000 after being shut down by regulators for not having enough
financial resources.  Joseph regularly had trading exposure of more than a
million pounds, and once as much as 3 million pounds, Bowes
said. Bowes said the FSA’s investigators weren’t able to find
any evidence on computers seized from Joseph’s London apartment
that he had done any independent research on the shares.  The FSA arrested Joseph in May 2010. At the time, he gave a
written statement to investigators denying he received inside
information from anyone. He told them he met Mustafa in 2007 and
“may have” discussed securities with him. Joseph was charged
in January last year.  “Joseph’s prepared statement was in large measure
untrue,” Bowes said. “He was not exercising his own judgment
in deciding to place spread bets on the shares of these
companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in Southwark Crown Court in London via
   lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  