-- Hungary to Sell Eurobonds as IMF Aid Effort Ending, Orban Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-01-30T13:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/hungary-to-sell-eurobonds-as-imf-aid-effort-ending-orban-says.html
Hungary  plans to sell bonds on the
international market by the beginning of next month as efforts
to obtain aid from the  International Monetary Fund  are coming to
an end, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said today.  The IMF has declined to provide the flexible  credit line 
that the government requested, Orban said in Brussels. Hungary,
which turned to the IMF for help in November 2011, doesn’t need
a bailout as it can finance itself from the market, he said.  The government last sold Eurobonds in May 2011, having
scrapped a planned issue last year on expectations an IMF deal
would cut borrowing costs. Even though IMF talks stalled, the
yield on Hungary’s 2021 dollar bonds has plunged to 4.71 percent
from 9.37 percent in January 2012 amid improved confidence in
Hungary’s ability to cut public debt and increased demand for
higher-yielding assets.  “We’ll go out to the market again probably this month or
the beginning of the next month,” Orban said.  Hungary began investor meetings this week in the U.S. and
Europe organized by BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche
Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The Debt Management Agency
has also raised more than 1 billion euros from inflation-linked
notes sold under Hungarian law.  Hungary plans to raise 4.5 billion euros from the
international  debt market  this year and “would presumably hope
to take care of at least a third of that amount with any  bond
issue  that follows the current roadshow,” Blaise Antin, who
helps manage about $10.5 billion of emerging-market debt at TCW
Group Inc. in  Los Angeles , said by e-mail yesterday after
attending one of the meetings.  Market conditions permitting, it would make most sense for
Hungary to sell 10-year bonds as they currently have no
maturities between 2021 and 2041, Antin said.  The forint slid less than 0.1 percent to 295.8 per euro by
1:16 p.m. in Budapest after gaining as much as 0.4 percent
earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  