-- Unibail-Rodamco Profit Beats Target as German Mall Lifts Income
-- B y   A n d r e w   B l a c k m a n
-- 2013-01-31T07:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/unibail-rodamco-profit-beats-target-as-german-mall-boosts-income.html
Unibail-Rodamco SE (UL) ,  Europe ’s largest
publicly traded property owner, reported annual recurring profit
per share that beat its target and said Christophe Cuvillier
will replace Guillaume Poitrinal as chief executive officer.  Earnings excluding changes in asset values and proceeds
from disposals, or recurring profit, increased 6.7 percent to
9.60 euros a share, the Paris-based company said in a statement
after the close of trading yesterday. Unibail-Rodamco had
forecast a 4 percent increase. The average estimate of 13
analysts in a Bloomberg survey was for 9.50 euros a share.  Cuvillier, currently chief operating officer, will become
CEO on April 25, the real estate investment trust said. Unibail-
Rodamco has focused on large malls to attract companies entering
European markets for the first time, Morgan Stanley said in a
Dec. 5 note to investors. In June it agreed to buy most of the
company that controls Mfi Management fuer Immobilien AG,
 Germany ’s second-biggest shopping-mall operator.  Net rental income rose 4.2 percent on a like-for-like basis
last year, Unibail-Rodamco said. The company plans to raise its
 dividend  to 8.40 euros a share from 8 euros.  Unibail-Rodamco set a target of increasing recurring EPS by
at least 5 percent this year, according to today’s statement.
Earnings are expected to reach 14 euros a share by 2017, the
REIT said. Large malls make up 89 percent of the gross market
value of Unibail-Rodamco’s properties in Europe.  Poitrinal, 45, has been Unibail-Rodamco’s CEO for eight
years.  The company has risen about 20 percent in Paris trading in
the last 12 months, lifting its market value to 16.6 billion
euros ($23 billion). That compares with a 14 percent gain in the
benchmark CAC-40 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Blackman in Berlin at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 