-- United Engineers Makes Competing S$1.1 Billion Offer for WBL
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 2013-01-30T05:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/united-engineers-makes-competing-s-1-1-billion-offer-for-wbl.html
United Engineers Ltd. (UEM) , a Singapore
group with investments from real estate to engineering, offered
to buy WBL Corp., valuing the company at S$1.1 billion ($890
million) and topping an earlier bid by  Straits Trading Co. (STRTR)   United Engineers will offer S$4 a share in cash for the
remaining 61.7 percent of WBL that the company and its partners
don’t already own, as well as WBL’s convertible bonds, it said
today in a  statement  to the  Singapore Exchange . The proposal is
higher than an offer by Straits Trading, which bid S$3.41 a
share in cash or 1.07 of new shares.  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) , Singapore’s second-biggest
bank by assets, and its partners are working with United
Engineers on its bid, according to the statement. OCBC and its
partners control 38.3 percent of WBL and S$12.8 million in bonds
convertible into a 1.99 percent stake in WBL. OCBC said last
month it was reviewing options for its stake as the Straits
Trading offer was below WBL’s net asset value, the  Straits Times 
said, citing Chief Financial Officer Darren Tan.  “UE has been exploring opportunities to make a substantial
acquisition that will be transformational in nature,” Jackson Yap, managing director and chief executive officer at United
Engineers, said in the statement. “WBL will give us the scale
and scope, as well as the geographic diversification, to achieve
our strategic ambition.”  Straits Trading said in a  statement  on Jan. 16 that it
would hold 44.55 percent of WBL and that shareholders approved
making a cash-or-share offer for rest of the company.  United Engineers has fallen 1.2 percent this year in
Singapore trading,  compared  with the 3.5 percent gain in the
benchmark Straits Times Index.  WBL (WBL)  increased 5.3 percent in the
same period and last traded at S$4.20 yesterday before being
halted for the announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  