-- UPS’s Dropped TNT Acquisition Is Formally Blocked by EU
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-30T13:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/ups-s-aborted-tnt-takeover-bid-formally-blocked-by-eu-regulators.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ’s aborted
takeover bid for  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  was formally blocked by European
Union regulators because UPS failed to find a suitable buyer for
parts of TNT to ensure competition for delivery services
wouldn’t be crushed.  UPS’s inability to sign a binding deal with a potential
purchaser of TNT units in 17 countries led regulators to
conclude that its divestment plan was insufficient, the EU’s
antitrust chief said today.  Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said he told UPS
that the TNT takeover “probably would require an up-front
buyer” or a bid from another delivery company with air-freight
capability such as FedEx Corp. -- which didn’t signal any
interest in TNT assets.  UPS, the world’s largest parcel-delivery company, said two
weeks ago it was scrapping the 5.16 billion-euro ($7 billion)
transaction after the European Commission warned of a ban. The
Atlanta-based company sought to buy TNT to double its business
in  Europe  and vault it to equal footing there with  Deutsche Post
AG (DPW) ’s DHL, the market-share leader.  “UPS clearly was not ready or was not in favor or was not
prepared to explore” signing a deal with a purchaser until it
was “much too late for it to materialize,” Almunia told
reporters at a Brussels press conference.  ‘Serious Doubts’  “We still had serious doubts” about whether the buyers
UPS was working with “had the incentive and the ability to
become a strong player in express deliveries,” he said, citing
La Poste SA’s DPD unit.  UPS formally withdrew its offer for TNT after today’s
announcement, saying it was “disappointed” in the EU decision,
according to an e-mailed statement. It will pay a fee of 200
million euros to TNT within 10 days of terminating the deal, the
biggest in its history, according to a filing yesterday.  “UPS proposed significant and tangible remedies designed
to address the EC’s concerns,” the company said in the
statement today. “UPS believes that the combined company would
have been transformative for the logistics industry, bringing
meaningful benefits to consumers and customers around the
world.”  The EU blocked the deal because combining UPS and TNT would
have increased prices for express delivery in 29 countries,
Almunia said. FedEx’s limited reach across Europe meant some
customers would only be able to choose between UPS-TNT and DHL
for next-day deliveries.  Smaller Rival  UPS sought to address these concerns by offering to divest
TNT’s businesses in 15 countries in eastern Europe and
Scandinavia as well as units in Spain and  Portugal  under certain
conditions. It also offered to boost a smaller rival by giving
it access to its air network for five years and helping it
increase its volume of small package deliveries.  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  was “the only possible suitable purchaser”
for the units among delivery firms with air-freight services,
the EU said, because any bid by DHL would also lead to similar
antitrust concerns. FedEx told the EU it wasn’t interested in
buying any of the TNT assets or in outbidding or making an
alternative bid for the entire company, Almunia said.  FedEx’s press office didn’t immediately respond to two e-
mails seeking a response to the EU comments.  Air Network  DPD wasn’t deemed a viable rival competitor to the large
companies because it didn’t have the volume of deliveries or an
incentive to invest in an air network after the initial five
years, the EU said.  Almunia said he was surprised UPS decided to withdraw from
the deal earlier this month because they still had time to
resolve the EU’s concerns. TNT shares fell to a
record low on Jan. 14 after UPS said it would end the deal.  Ernst Moeksis, a spokesman for Hoofddorp, the Netherlands-
based TNT, referred to the company’s statement earlier this
month where it said it regretted the end of a takeover attempt
it believed was feasible and beneficial.  UPS and TNT declined to comment on whether they would
challenge the EU merger ban at the EU General Court in
Luxembourg.  The deal is the third to be blocked by Almunia since he
became the EU’s antitrust chief in 2010. He defended his record,
saying he has approved 800 other deals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 