-- Turkcell Retreats After Split U.K. Court Ruling: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-01-30T16:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/turkcell-retreats-after-split-u-k-court-ruling-istanbul-mover.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) ,
 Turkey ’s largest mobile phone company, plunged after a U.K.
court reached a split decision in a case concerning the
company’s long-running shareholder dispute.  The stock dropped 6.8 percent to close at 11.05 liras in
Istanbul, the lowest level this year. Turkcell had earlier
retreated as much as 8 percent.  The U.K.’s Privy Council in  London  ruled today that Russian
billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s  Alfa Group  acted legally when it
decided to seize an extra 13.7 percent of Turkcell from Cukurova
Holding AS for unpaid debts. It qualified that ruling by saying
Alfa must offer compensation for the seizure, with additional
court proceedings required to set an amount, prolonging
uncertainty that has prevented dividend distribution at the
company since 2010.  “The expectation was that Turkcell would restart
distributing dividends” after a clear victory for Alfa, Atinc Ozkan, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Istanbul, said in
a phone interview today. Instead the verdict has created a risk
for Alfa that’s magnified by a statement by Turkey’s
telecommunications regulator yesterday that any management
change at Turkcell would require its approval, he said.  Cukurova, Alfa and  Sweden ’s  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  have been
fighting a three-cornered battle for control of Turkcell for
almost a decade. While TeliaSonera is the largest shareholder
with 38 percent, Cukurova has sought to retain control via a
complex ownership structure even as its stake has slid to 13.8
percent.  Shareholder Conflict  The stock’s decline today was “unwarranted,” according to
Murat Ignebekcili, an analyst at Istanbul-based Burgan
Securities.  “The market may think this decision increases the
uncertainty; we think not,” he wrote in an e-mailed report
today. “We expect a resolution to the shareholder conflict
before the end of the first half 2013, and the keenly-awaited
dividend payout to take place in the second quarter 2013 or in
the third quarter 2013.”  Turkcell reported net income of 571.5 million liras ($323.1
million) in the third quarter last year, up 6.3 percent from a
year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
will probably report fourth quarter net income of 535 million
liras, according to the average of three economist estimates on
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  