-- Mursi Seeks Merkel’s Backing in Break From Deadly Egypt Unrest
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-01-30T11:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/mursi-seeks-merkel-s-backing-in-break-from-deadly-egypt-unrest.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi is
making a shortened visit to  Germany  amid political unrest at
home and warnings by German politicians that expanded economic
ties depend on his government’s adherence to democracy.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  plans to receive Mursi with
military honors for talks at the chancellery in Berlin today at
1:30 p.m., followed by a joint news conference. Mursi also plans
to meet German lawmakers and give a speech to a private
foundation. He canceled a visit to  France  set for Feb. 1,
presidential spokesman Yasser Ali told reporters in Cairo
yesterday.  “My advice is strategic patience -- that we say what we
want to say, but that we don’t let the communications break
down,” German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle said on ARD
television today. German aid to help  Egypt’s transition  depends
on “the advance of democracy” in the country, he said.  The European Union,  Egypt ’s biggest trading partner and
largest source of direct foreign investment, has pledged to help
modernize the most populous Arab country after the revolt that
toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  in February 2011. Egypt is
Germany’s top trading partner in the Arab region except for the
 United Arab Emirates  and  Saudi Arabia , according to the Economy
Ministry in Berlin. Germans are the second-biggest group of
tourists visiting Egypt after Russians.  As Mursi tries to consolidate power, Egypt is seeking a
$4.8 billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund  that his
government says will boost investor confidence and encourage
other lenders and donors. Germany is providing 150 million euros
($203 million) in aid to Mursi’s government and offering 240
million euros in debt forgiveness, Westerwelle said in August.  ‘Economic Support’  “Mursi is coming to Germany mainly in search of economic
support,” Philipp Missfelder, the foreign-policy spokesman in
parliament for Merkel’s  Christian Democrats , said on Phoenix
television. “If he wants to create a positive investment
climate or lure German tourists back to Egypt, that can only
succeed if the human rights situation improves, in particular
the Christian minority’s situation.”  Egypt’s political feud is eroding stability as its economy
grows at the  slowest pace  in two decades. The pound has slid 7.5
percent since the central bank introduced daily dollar auctions
last month to shield dwindling reserves.  The pound will decline another 6 percent this quarter as
the country suffers its worst political crisis in two years,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of bankers that take part
in central bank auctions.  Emergency Measures  In the latest attempt to stem the crisis, Mursi gave three
regional governors authority to review emergency measures
imposed in their provinces after the violent unrest led his
defense chief to warn of the possible collapse of the state.  The move failed to quell unrest in the three Suez Canal
provinces. Thousands defied a curfew for the second consecutive
night to chant against the Islamist president and his Muslim
Brotherhood backers, in the wake of the deaths of over 50 people
during protests in the past week.  The unrest has gained momentum since Jan. 25, the second
anniversary of the start of the uprising that ousted Mubarak.
The opposition, which is mostly secular and led by youth
activists, says Mursi’s only aim is to cement Islamist rule. The
president, who took power after elections in June, has imposed
decrees that temporarily expanded his powers and backed a
constitution drawn up largely by Islamists, which was passed in
a referendum last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  