-- Vale Vows to Deliver Growth After Losing Title to Rio Tinto
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-01-30T14:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/vale-pledges-to-deliver-growth-after-losing-title-to-rio-tinto.html
Vale SA (VALE3)  pledged to deliver on its
growth projects after losing to  Rio Tinto  Group the title of the
world’s second-largest mining company and failing to boost
production of the steel-making ingredient.  Vale is “confident” it can deliver on its expansion plans
and that will eventually be reflected in its share price, Chief
Financial Officer Luciano Siani told investors yesterday at an
event in  Rio de Janeiro , where the company is based. Doubts may
still remain among investors about Vale’s capacity to fulfill
its promises, he said.  “Why Rio Tinto has today a higher market value than Vale
if its iron-ore production is much lower? Because Rio Tinto has
delivered iron-ore growth and we haven’t,” Siani, 42, said.
“Vale has an incredible latent value and its management is
absolutely committed to deliver and reveal that value.”  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, in October was
surpassed by London-based Rio Tinto, which is currently valued
$5.6 billion more than its rival, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Brazilian company is cutting investments, seeking
partners and writing off nickel and aluminum assets after shares
slumped to the lowest in almost three years in September amid
weaker demand from  China  and  Europe .  ‘Re-rate’  “The strategic direction that the company’s management is
pursuing is the correct one,” Deutsche Bank AG’s analysts led
by Rodrigo Barros said in a note to clients today after
attending the presentation. “Vale will re-rate in comparison to
its global peers during 2013, as the results of Vale’s strategic
initiatives become more evident.”  Vale is targeting 306 million metric tons of iron ore
output this year, down 1.9 percent from an expected 312 million
tons in 2012, it said Dec. 3. The company produced 322.6 million
tons in 2011. Rio Tinto boosted its iron-ore production 4
percent to 253 million tons last year, it  said  Jan. 15.  Vale aims to boost its iron-ore output to 402 million tons
by 2017 and recover lost market share as it develops low costs
ventures including its flagship $8.04 billion Serra Sul project
in Northern Brazil, Siani said yesterday.  “From the moment that what we are showing here becomes
reality, we think there is potential for the future growth of
Vale to be more evident on its share price,” he said about the
projects. “We need to execute and deliver that strategy.”  China Growth  Iron-ore prices are supported by prospects of China growing
as much as 7 percent a year, preventing a 2012-like slump, Vale
Investor Relations Director Roberto Castello Branco said
yesterday at the same event. Vale is optimistic about prices as
China steel stockpiles recover amid increasing spending on
infrastructure and construction, he said.  Vale  fell  0.6 percent to 37.91 reais at 12:26 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo . The stock has lost 9.3 percent in the past year,
underperforming Rio Tinto’s 2.7 percent  decline .  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  is the world’s largest mining company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio De Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  