-- Vegetarian Diet Cuts Heart Risk by 32%, Study Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-01-30T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/vegetarian-diet-cuts-heart-risk-by-32-study-says.html
Vegetarians were 32 percent less
likely to be hospitalized or die from heart disease than people
who ate meat and fish, scientists at  England ’s  Oxford University 
reported.  The researchers followed almost 45,000 adults, one-third of
them vegetarians, for an average of 11 1/2 years and accounted
for factors such as their age, whether they smoked, alcohol
consumption, physical activity, education and socio-economic
background, according to the study published today in the
 American Journal of Clinical Nutrition .  “Probably most of the difference is accounted for by the
fact that the vegetarians had lower cholesterol and lower blood
pressure,”  Francesca Crowe , one of the authors of the study and
a nutritional epidemiologist at Oxford, said in a telephone
interview. “Diet is an important determinant of heart
disease.”  Cardiovascular disease is the biggest cause of death in
developed countries and accounted for an estimated 17.3 million
deaths in 2008 worldwide, including 6.2 million deaths from
strokes, according to the  World Health Organization .  The Oxford study reinforces previous research that has
concluded a healthy diet can reduce heart disease by lowering
cholesterol, blood pressure and the risk of diabetes. Another
 study  of more than 31,000 people who had been diagnosed with
cardiovascular disease or diabetes, published in the journal
Circulation in December, found that those who ate a diet that
favored fish, vegetables, fruit, beans and nuts over meats and
eggs were 35 percent less likely to die from cardiovascular
disease.  Bill Clinton  Plant-based diets have long been advocated by doctors
including  Dean Ornish , a California-based cardiologist, and
 Caldwell B. Esselstyn , a retired surgeon at the  Cleveland Clinic 
in  Ohio , who have argued the benefits of vegetarian diets in
their books. Former U.S. President Bill Clinton cited both
doctors as influences after he switched to a plant-based diet.
Clinton, who became known for consuming hamburgers while
president, developed heart disease and underwent coronary bypass
surgery in 2004.  “When these patients will fully commit to plant-based
nutrition, they can not only halt but they can arrest and on
occasion there will be significant evidence of disease
reversal,” Esselstyn, a vegetarian for 29 years, said in a
telephone interview.  “It’s getting to the point where it will be unconscionable
for patients with cardiovascular disease not to be informed that
this option exists,” he said.  The Oxford study was funded by  Cancer Research UK  and the
U.K.’s  Medical Research Council  and conducted by the
university’s  Cancer Epidemiology Unit .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  