-- Warsaw Equity Market Driven by Banking Asset Sales
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-01-31T09:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/warsaw-equity-market-driven-by-bank-sales-amid-debt-sales.html
Warsaw equity sales in January, the
largest in  Europe , beat the total value of last year’s deals and
will rise more with a  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  sale as  Poland  boosts
investments to spur the economy and lenders shore up finances.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  closed the sale of a 9.1 percent stake in
Bank Pekao SA yesterday, raising 3.73 billion zloty ($1.21
billion), according to a regulatory statement. Italy’s largest
bank, which yesterday said Pekao remains “core” to its
strategy, is reviewing its central and eastern European
operations as the sovereign-debt crisis and its home country’s
third recession in a decade weigh on earnings.  The sale of Pekao, Poland’s second-biggest lender, came
less than a week after the government and state-owned Bank
Gospodarstwa Krajowego sold a record 5.24 billion-zloty stake in
PKO Bank Polski SA. The two transactions bring the total equity
sales market in Poland to 9 billion zloty this year, surpassing
2012’s total of 8.75 billion zloty.  “The Polish government and European banks are under
pressure,” Andrzej Blachut, the head of emerging-market
equities at Zurich-based Swiss & Global Asset Management, which
helps manage the equivalent of $89 billion, said by e-mail.
“They are seeking money and Polish banks, delicately speaking,
are well priced in comparison to its peers.”  KBC Transaction  Polish lenders  trade at a market weighted average of price-
to-book value of 1.83, versus central and eastern Europe’s
average of 1.56.  KBC,  Belgium ’s biggest bank and insurer by market value,
plans to sell a 16 percent stake in  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s Polish
unit in the current quarter. KBC received the holding, valued at
3.92 billion zloty at the current market price, in Poland’s
third-largest lender  Bank Zachodni WBK SA (BZW)  after selling Kredyt
Bank SA last year.  The Belgian bank has been selling assets as part of a
disposal program agreed to with European Union regulators in
exchange for approval of the state aid it received during the
financial crisis.  Alior IPO  The three sales come on top of the initial public offering
by  Alior Bank SA (ALR) , the biggest IPO by a private Polish company.
Alior, which owns Poland’s third-largest network, and its owners
raised 2.1 billion zloty in the transaction in December. Carlo
Tassara SpA, owned by French investor  Romain Zaleski  and founder
of Alior, is looking to sell its remaining stake, now valued at
1.7 billion zloty, this year to reduce debt, according to the
IPO prospectus.  “The past two months have been heavy with bank share
placements in Poland and cash is tight,” Renaissance Capital
Ltd. analysts Armen Gasparyan and  David Nangle  wrote in a
research note today. “Markets are also gearing up for a
significant unloading of shares from Bank Zachodni.”  Blachut says the “sale potential” in the banking industry
is “rather” coming to an end.  Santander Deal  Poland has been one of the most active markets in Europe
for deals involving banks and insurers in the last three years.  Spain ’s Santander acquired Zachodni and Kredyt Bank.
Austria’s Raiffeisen bought Polbank SA. German insurer Talanx AG
purchased Towarzystwo Ubezpieczen i Reasekuracji Warta SA. Alior
went public in December.  Poland’s government sold a 3.09 billion-zloty stake in PKO
in July last year and a 3.17 billion-zloty holding in PZU SA
insurer in June 2011.  PKO shares fell 0.4 percent to 34.3 zloty as of 10:04 a.m.
in Warsaw, valuing the bank at 42.9 billion zloty.  Pekao (PEO)  was
down 0.5 percent at 155.1 zloty, heading for the lowest close
since November after UniCredit’s sale. Zachodni added 0.1
percent to 250.7 zloty today as fourth-quarter earnings beat
estimates.  Sales Plans  The country, the EU’s largest eastern state, has outpaced
the rest of central and eastern Europe combined by equity
offerings in the past decade, attracting the biggest global
investment banks and boosting the  Warsaw Stock Exchange .  This year, the government plans to raise 5 billion zloty
from asset sales, down from a 10 billion-zloty target in 2012.
The state may raise an additional 10 billion zloty in 2013 from
selling its stakes in PKO, PZU and utility PGE SA. The option
will be used if Bank Gospodarstwa and an  investment company  that
the government is currently setting up say they need additional
capital for infrastructure projects.  BGK, as the Bank Gospodarstwa is known, and the company are
part of the Treasury Ministry’s program aimed at boosting energy
and road investments as funds flows from the EU may decelerate
in coming years.  The 67 billion euros ($91 billion) that Poland is set to
get from the EU in 2007 to 2013 helped the country become the
only member of the bloc to avoid recession during the recent
crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  