-- Wasatch Best of Emerging-Markets Funds: Riskless Return
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-01-30T14:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/wasatch-best-of-emerging-markets-funds-riskless-return.html
Roger Edgley is running the best
emerging-markets stock fund of the past four years by picking
small, high-quality companies from an office at the foot of the
Wasatch mountains in Utah.  Edgley’s $1.7 billion  Wasatch Emerging Markets Small Cap
Fund (WAEMX)  returned 13 percent, adjusted for price swings, in the four
years ended Jan. 28, best among 45 funds with at least $1
billion in assets, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN
RANKING. Edgley, 57, was able to beat all peers by producing the
best absolute return with the 10th-lowest volatility.  “The quality approach is trying to buy BMWs at a
reasonable price,” he said in a telephone interview. “The
hardest part is trying to figure out if it’s a BMW.”  Edgley favors companies with a track record of
profitability, high returns on capital, and a history of paying
dividends while keeping debt levels low. The approach has
allowed the fund to keep volatility low and beat rivals both
when emerging-market stocks have been in favor and when they
have been shunned by investors.  The Wasatch fund topped 97 percent of peers by total return
in 2009 when emerging market stocks soared and 91 percent in
2011 when the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 18 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This fund has thrived over the shorter and long runs,”
William Samuel Rocco, a Morningstar analyst, wrote in a January
note on the firm’s website.  ‘Improved Economy’  This year could be another good one for emerging-market
stocks, Edgley said in a fourth-quarter note to shareholders,
citing improving conditions in China and Europe.  “There is a case that 2013 will see returns reflective of
an improved global economy,” he wrote in the note, which was
also signed by co-manager Laura Geritz.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained 1.5 percent this
year, trailing a 5.6 percent gain by the MSCI World Index. The
developing-nations index trades for 11 times estimated profit,
compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.7, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The $3.3 billion  Invesco Developing Markets Fund (GTDDX)  placed
second with an adjusted return of 8.3 percent. It had the sixth-
highest absolute return combined with the sixth-lowest
volatility. The $3.6 billion DFA Emerging Markets Small Cap
Portfolio returned a risk-adjusted 8.1 percent, ranking it
third.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  ‘Strong Investors’  In emerging markets, small-cap stocks have had an advantage
over the past four years. The Russell Global Emerging Markets
Small Cap Index gained 24 percent a year in the four years ended
Dec. 31. That compares with 20 percent annually for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, which includes big companies such as
Seocho-gu, Korea-based Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. and  China
Mobile Ltd. (941) , based in Hong Kong.  The Wasatch fund has “done well relative to the group not
just because small-caps have outperformed during that period,”
Rocco said in a telephone interview from Bend, Oregon.  “They are strong, sustainable-growth investors,” Rocco
said. “They pay a lot of attention to smaller emerging
markets.”  The Wasatch fund uses a bottom-up process that focuses on
finding individual stocks, with market values of less than $3
billion. The fund had 58 percent of its assets in companies
based in Asia, including 17 percent in India, as of Dec. 31,
according to the Wasatch website.  ‘Attractive Country’  The fund has the flexibility to stray beyond the weightings
in industries and countries of its benchmark, the MSCI Emerging
Markets Small Cap Index. At the end of 2012 the fund had 6.8
percent of its assets in the Philippines, more than three times
that country’s weighting in the benchmark, Edgley wrote in his
 fourth-quarter note.   “The Philippines is a very attractive country” on the
inflow of investment and its domestically-driven economy, Edgley
said in the interview. “We have more choice, more flexibility
than a large cap investor there.”  Security Bank Corp. (SECB) , a Makati City, Philippines-based
lender, was Wasatch’s biggest holding as of Sept. 30, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  It’s a “well-capitalized, medium-sized bank that’s been
able to grow its loan books across different sectors and it was
under two-times book when we bought it,” Edgley said in the
interview. “That combination of valuation, quality, good
banking system, that’s what we are looking for.”  Philippines, Thailand  Book value is a measure of a company’s net worth calculated
by taking the value of assets and subtracting the value of
liabilities.  Security Bank plans to add 42 branches this year, bringing
its total to 250 by year-end, and forecasts 10 percent to 15
percent growth in loans, President Alberto Villarosa said in a
January interview. The shares have risen more than 10-fold over
the past four years.  Universal Robina Corp. (URC) , the largest Philippine maker of
snack food, and the fund’s seventh- biggest holding, rose 12-
fold over the same stretch. The Manila firm gained 62 percent in
the past year.  The fund has about twice the benchmark weighting in
Thailand, Edgley wrote in his fourth-quarter note. Like the
Philippines and Turkey, Thailand has an economy that is driven
by domestic spending, he said.  Eclectic Background  Home Product Center Pcl (HMPRO) , Thailand’s biggest retailer of
home-improvement hardware, is the fourth-largest position in the
fund. In October the company, based in Nonthaburi, said it would
add eight new stores in 2013, most of them outside Bangkok. The
shares are up more than fourteen-fold over the past four years.  Another Thai firm,  Siam Makro Pcl (MAKRO) , is Edgley’s second-
largest holding. The Bangkok-based firm, the biggest cash-and-
carry wholesaler in the country, rose 73 percent in the past
year.  Edgley’s stock-picking has been helped by an eclectic
background. A native of the U.K., he lived in Hong Kong, London
and Africa. He has three degrees from British universities: a
bachelor’s degree in psychology and two master’s degrees, one in
philosophy and another in social psychology and statistics.  Today he works in Salt Lake City, where Wasatch has its
headquarters. The employee-owned company runs 19 mutual funds
and says it doesn’t shy away from closing funds to new money to
ensure top performance. Edgley’s fund is closed to new
investors, though existing ones can still buy into it, according
to the Wasatch website.  Russian Electronics  “Sitting next to the mountains, having a distance from the
major financial centers helps,” Edgley said. “People get
excited by certain themes. If everyone is talking about the same
themes, how can you take advantage of that?”  For example, there is a common perception that Russia does
not offer much in terms of small-cap stocks, said Edgley.
“We’ve actually found some interesting companies there,” he
said.  OAO M.video, a Russian electronics retailer of which his
fund owns 1.1 percent, has more than tripled sales over five
years. In a January interview with Bloomberg News, chief
executive officer Alexander Tynkovan said he was preparing his
chain for more online sales. “We can look to Europe to
understand what to expect in Russia in two or three years,” he
said.  Consumer Stocks  The Moscow-based retailer’s shares have climbed about 10-
fold over the past four years. The stock has a 12-month yield of
14 percent. Another retailer in the portfolio is  Mr Price Group
Ltd (MPC) , a South African clothing and furniture chain. The Durban-
based company started a program last year to attract more U.S.
investors. Shares gained 43 percent in the past year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Consumer discretionary stocks represented 18 percent of
Edgley’s portfolio as of Dec. 31, according to Wasatch. Only
financials, with 22 percent, had a higher share.  While Edgley and his co-manager travel widely to meet with
company executives around the world, it is difficult to be
confident about some companies when one is so far removed from
the emerging markets, he said.  The best way to avoid falling into a trap, he said, is to
concentrate on businesses whose management, past history and
profitability best equip them to weather different market
conditions.  “The quality stocks will tend to be less controversial,”
said Edgley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  