-- Weidmann Says Bailouts Could Weaken Strongest Members
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-01-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/weidmann-says-bailouts-could-weaken-even-strongest-euro-members.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
said  Europe ’s current framework for bailing out distressed
nations will eventually weaken even the single currency’s
strongest members unless it is changed.  “If things stay the way they are, the consequences of
unsound policies will be too easily passed on to others,”
Weidmann said in Berlin late yesterday. “Sooner or later the
economically solid countries will be weakened. Liability and
control have to be brought into balance.”  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, has pledged more than
300 billion euros ($407 billion) in loans and guarantees to help
shore up the finances of euro member states such as Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal . Weidmann, who’s also a member of the
European Central Bank’s Governing Council, has argued that
policies including the OMT bond-purchase program come too close
to the banned practice of financing states by printing money.  Risks that have been shared via bailouts and ECB emergency
measures have already reached a “substantial level,” Weidmann
said. “If these risks rise, the culture of stability could be
eroded as if we had explicit joint liability.”  Rising Wages  Germany  shouldn’t allow wages to rise too quickly in order
to rebalance competitiveness within the euro area, Weidmann
said. An increase in wages of even 5 percent would have no
impact on the output of crisis-ridden countries, and would
instead damage Germany.  “The crisis countries would only become more competitive
in relation to Germany, but not against countries outside the
single currency,” Weidmann said. “At the end of the day, the
whole euro area would be worse off.”  Rather, countries should concentrate on improving their own
competitiveness and undertaking economic reforms to secure
growth, Weidmann said.  “That requires discipline in cleaning up government
finances,” he said. “The necessary process of reform and
adjustment is difficult, and not free from setbacks. Bailouts
can accompany that and soften the blow, but they cannot replace
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  