-- Where to Invest While Markets Remain ‘Risk-On’
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2013-01-30T23:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/where-to-invest-while-markets-remain-risk-on-.html
In today’s markets, investors’ zeal
for yield and disregard for risk favors the junkiest of the
junk.  This “risk on” environment must be incorporated in any
investment strategy. I remain cautious, nonetheless, because of
what I call the grand disconnect between investors’ focus on the
immense liquidity created by central banks and weak and
weakening global economies. When this disconnection becomes
unsustainable, probably after a significant shock, my strategy
will shift to “risk off,” as I will discuss in tomorrow’s
column.  For now, let’s look at the themes I believe will work in
the current “risk on” investment environment.  Why Treasury bonds?  -- Because I foresee slow economic growth at best;  -- Because the Federal Reserve is determined to further
reduce long-term interest rates;  -- Because deflation looms;  -- Because long Treasury bonds are attractive to pension
funds and life insurers that want to match their long-term
liabilities with assets of similar maturity;  -- Because Treasuries are the haven from trouble in the
euro area and elsewhere;  -- Because  China ’s attempts to cool its economy and stoke
weak exports may precipitate a hard landing;  -- Because the Fed and other central banks and foreign
governments continue to buy huge quantities of Treasuries;  -- And because Treasuries have worked for me for 31 years,
and the 30-year long bond has been one of my most profitable
investments.  Declining Yields  I have never bought Treasuries for their  yield . I only care
that it is going down. I value Treasuries for the same reason
that most of today’s stockholders want equities: appreciation.  I predict a further decline in the 30-year Treasury bond
yield to 2 percent from 3.2 percent now, though not before the
grand disconnect ends. That further rate decline would produce a
30 percent total return in one year on a 30-year coupon
Treasury, including interest, and 44.9 percent on a zero-coupon
bond.  I also expect the 10-year Treasury note yield to drop to 1
percent from about 2 percent, though the total return would only
be 10.4 percent, largely due to its shorter maturity. It would
be 11.2 percent on a 10-year zero-coupon note.  High-Quality Income-Producing Securities:  After the bloodbath for almost all securities in 2008, many
individual and institutional investors prefer predictable cash
payouts now to pie-in-the-sky capital gains in the
future. Treasury bonds are still attractive for appreciation,
but with questionable gains available elsewhere, investors will
probably continue to seek meaningful interest and dividend
payments.  The rise of municipal bonds last year, with a total return
of 6.5 percent, may benefit from the further decline in Treasury
yields. Investment-grade corporate bonds gained 11.8 percent in
total return in 2012 and also remain attractive for yield and
appreciation. Debt service isn’t a problem for most since
nonfinancial corporations are replete with cash. This also
limits the need to issue more debt.  Companies that pay substantial, predictable and increasing
dividends are back in style, and their stocks rose in 2012.  Meaningful Dividends  In the aftermath of the Enron Corp. and Arthur Andersen
scandals, the financial crisis and the gigantic writedowns that
made reported earnings questionable in many cases, a company
paying meaningful dividends is assuring investors that it is
generating real earnings and real cash flow. Furthermore, a
significant dividend payer will almost certainly continue to be
managed in a prudent and stable manner.  Luxury Goods:  Last year, my firm’s index of companies involved in premium
beer and liquors, perfumes, luxury clothing, jewelry, home
products and handbags was up about 18 percent. Consumers,
especially when they are hard-pressed as many are now, tend to
buy the very best of what they can afford, even if it’s within a
low-priced category. Manufacturers and retailers that can adapt
to the demand for small luxuries will continue to be winners.
Some are adopting the small-luxury model, offering essentially
the same products at lower prices by cutting their manufacturing
costs.  Consumer Staples and Food:  Items such as laundry detergent, bread and toothpaste are
essentials that are purchased in good times and bad. Their
producers’ equities will remain attractive. The Standard &
Poor’s Consumer Staples Sector Index was up 10.8 percent last
year, after a 14 percent gain in 2011.  Among retailers of consumer staples, the winners may
continue to be discounters, such as  Family Dollar Stores
Inc. (FDO)  U.S. used-merchandise stores have been thriving. Producers
of national brands will need to continue to adapt to weak
consumer incomes and high unemployment by emphasizing cheaper
“value” products.  The Dollar:  The U.S. currency should strengthen as other nations,
notably  Japan , competitively devaluate. The new Japanese
government has made it clear that it wants a weaker yen. It is
pushing the Bank of Japan to flood the country with money and
turn chronic deflation into 2 percent annual inflation.  Health-Care Providers and Medical-Office Buildings:  Health care is a huge part of the  economy , accounting for
17.9 percent of gross domestic product in 2011, and growing.  Major  pharmaceutical  and biotechnology stocks are
attractive. So, too, are companies that promote cost
containment, such as pharmacy-benefits managers, diagnostic-
testing labs and diagnostic-equipment makers, outfits that
provide home health-care services and supplies and outpatient
services and clinics. This includes manufacturers of noninvasive
diagnostic and surgical equipment, companies that provide
health-care information and services on and off the Internet,
and companies involved in physician and hospital-management
information systems, as well as market-research services. A plus
is that many health-care-related companies pay meaningful
dividends.  Medical Buildings  I also favor investments in medical-office buildings,
including related outpatient facilities such as those for
ambulatory care, surgery centers, ambulatory surgical,
outpatient cancer and wellness centers. Last year, demand for
such real estate was forecast to expand 19 percent by 2019, with
11 percent of that demand expected to be generated by changes
from the recent health-care law and the rest as a result of
population growth. In addition, physicians are increasingly
moving from small practices to hospital campuses and satellite
facilities. About 53 percent now work for hospitals. Medical-
office-building values are much less volatile than those of
other commercial and residential real estate. This market won’t
be afflicted by persistent excess capacity, which hinders new
construction, as is the case with residential real estate, malls
and office buildings.  Rental Apartments:  Rental apartments will continue to benefit from the
separation that Americans are beginning to make between their
homes and their investments. The two functions used to be
combined in the form of owner-occupied houses in the days when
owners believed house prices would never fall.  Empty-nesters in the suburbs will probably unload their
money pits and move into rental apartments. Young couples may
decide that because houses are no longer a great investment,
there’s no reason to buy big, expensive ones as soon as
possible. So they will stay in rental apartments longer.  Rental Apartments  Furthermore, rental demand and rent rates are increasing
because of tight lending standards for homebuyers, continuing
high unemployment and job risks. Real-estate investment trusts
containing rental apartments are probably fully priced, though
direct ownership of rental apartments is still probably
attractive, with overbuilding still some years off.  Productivity Enhancers:  Last year, the  AMEX Computer Technology Index (XCI)  rose 10
percent. I predict further growth this year in such productivity
enhancers as business pressure to cut costs persists.  In this slow growth and deflationary environment, increased
profit through price and volume increases is difficult, if not
impossible, for many companies. That means the appetite for
cost-cutting zeal will remain intact. Labor cost-cutting has
been under way in recent years, though it has limits. As a
result, anything -- high-tech, low-tech, no-tech -- that helps
reduce costs and promote productivity will be in demand.  North American Energy:  Conventional North American energy will benefit from the
national resolve to reduce imports from unreliable foreign
sources. Winners include natural-gas producers, pipelines, oil
sands, energy services, oil producers, nuclear energy and shale
oil and gas. At the same time, I remain skeptical of ethanol,
biofuels, wind, solar, geothermal, electric vehicles and other
renewable energy because of their heavy dependence on government
subsidies.  The Dow Jones U.S. Select Oil and Gas Exploration
Production Index rose 5 percent in 2012, and natural-gas prices
fell a little during the course of the year.  Hydraulic fracturing and horizontal-drilling techniques are
opening vast energy sources in North America that are close to
consumers and in politically safe areas. After years of
searching for oil in the Middle East and  Africa , major  oil 
producers are returning their attention to North
America. Exploiting these more expensive sources of energy
requires continued high prices for oil and rising prices for
natural gas.  Commodities Remain Unattractive:  Commodity prices have been falling since early
2011.  Apparently, slow global growth and mounting inventories,
especially in China, are overcoming investor zeal for these
assets.  In 2013, industrial-commodity prices should be further
depressed by continuing global economic weakness and rising
inventories. High grain prices may be vulnerable if the unusual
global weather patterns of 2012 return to normal and farmers
respond to high prices with record plantings.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the fourth in a five-part series.
Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 5 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  