-- Won Drops as Korea Weighs Trading Tax to Curb Inflows
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-01-31T07:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/won-falls-as-foreigners-sell-stocks-bonds-drop-as-output-rises.html
(Corrects 2012 stock inflows in fourth paragraph of story
published Jan. 30.)  South Korea ’s won weakened and
government debt fell after Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku
said taxes on currency trading and bonds should be considered to
help limit “speculative” inflows of capital.  The government wants to cut the “vicious cycle” in which
fast money inflows increase won volatility, Choi said at a forum
hosted by the Korea Institute of Finance in Seoul today. Choi
said his government is in talks with  China  and Southeast Asian
nations to reduce their Korean bond purchases, and that he
sometimes questions whether a flexible exchange rate is
“appropriate” for South Korea.  The government will soon decide on “tax measures that are
suitable for our market conditions,” Choi said. “South Korea
opposes a tobin tax in its traditional form, as it could cause
unintended consequences in the market,” he said, referring to
the concept of a charge on international flows of money and
named after  James Tobin , the Nobel Prize-winning U.S. economist
who first suggested the idea in 1971.  The won fell 0.3 percent to close at 1,085.46 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
strengthened 0.9 percent yesterday following a 1.7 percent slide
on Jan. 28. It rose 8.3 percent in 2012, the most among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as overseas investors pumped
$15.1 billion into Korean stocks.  Curbing Transactions  Global funds cut their holdings of Korean shares for a
fifth day, adding to  net sales  of $1.6 billion this month
through yesterday.  Policy makers will curb “unnecessary use” of foreign
currencies in import transactions by state-run firms and closely
monitor other major companies’ cross-border payments, Choi said.  “Authorities are signaling tighter regulations to reduce
volatility,” said Sun Sung In, an analyst at Shinhan Investment
Corp. in  Seoul . “Won moves have been too volatile lately due to
capital inflows and outflows and authorities want to eliminate
the risk.”  A stronger currency may cut 2013 operating profit by more
than 3 trillion won ($2.8 billion), Samsung Electronics Co. said
last week after announcing fourth-quarter earnings.  Sharp fluctuations in capital flows are a key concern,
given the country’s reliance on trade, Ha Sung Keun, a board
member of the South Korean central bank, told reporters in Seoul
Jan. 28. Exports are equivalent to about half of the nation’s
gross domestic product.  Restrictions  Choi said today the government may further tighten
restrictions on banks’ currency forward positions. South Korea
on Nov. 27 capped currency forward positions at 150 percent of
equity for branches of foreign bank. The limit is 30 percent of
equity for domestic banks.  “Market participants may have a different idea but won
trading in the non-deliverable forwards market is a big factor
in widening won volatility,” he said. “We’re closely looking
at it and may tighten rules to curb such volatility.”  One-month implied volatility in the won, a gauge of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, today to 7.85
percent. It reached 9.63 percent yesterday, the highest level
since July. The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due
September 2017 rose four basis points to a three-week high of
2.91 percent, Korea Exchange prices show.  The currency strengthened as much as 0.3 percent earlier
today after reports showed industrial production unexpectedly
climbed 1 percent in December from the previous month and the
current account recorded a $2.25 billion surplus. Output was
forecast to fall 1.5 percent, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey.  “The economic indicators confirmed views that South
Korea’s economy is recovering, while continued surplus in the
current account brings in more dollars,” said Hong Seok Chan,
an analyst at Daishin Economic Research Institute in Seoul.
“Currency investors are likely to track purchase and sales of
stocks by foreign funds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  