-- World’s Biggest Currency Dealers Say Trade Volumes Surge in 2013
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-01-30T12:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/world-s-biggest-currency-dealers-say-trade-volumes-surge-in-2013.html
The world’s biggest currency traders
are reporting a jump in volumes in 2013 as a slide in the yen,
pound and Swiss franc increase anticipation of future price
swings to a five-month high.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the third-largest dealer based on Euromoney
Institutional Investor Plc data, said this month that volumes
for the yen versus the euro climbed to a daily record and
trading across all currencies has risen to the most in a year.
Citigroup Inc. said turnover in the yen was “very high,” while
Deutsche Bank AG, the largest dealer, said a calming of euro-
area tensions spurs demand for higher-yielding assets.  The yen is the worst performer this year of 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, sliding 5.6 percent, as new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
presses the central bank to boost stimulus to spur growth. The
pound declined 3.3 percent.  The Swiss currency slid to the weakest since May 2011
versus the euro on Jan. 18, while sterling depreciated to a 13-
month low against the common currency today as demand for safer
assets waned.  A  gauge of implied volatility  for Group-of-Seven currencies
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co increased to 8.70 percent at
12:02 p.m.  London  time after rising to 9.19 percent on Jan. 18,
the highest level since Aug. 2. The index has climbed from last
year’s low of 7.09 percent on Dec. 17, which was the least since
July 2007.  ‘Very Encouraging’  “It’s been a very encouraging start to the year in terms
of volumes and performance,” Kevin Rodgers, global head of
foreign-exchange at Deutsche Bank in London, said in a telephone
interview on Jan. 23. “It feels like the market is getting back
to a normal level of activity and behavior that you would have
seen pre-crisis.”  Volumes for the yen versus the euro rose to a daily record
on Jan. 16, Barclays said in an e-mailed note the following day.
Overall currency volumes reached the highest daily level in a
year on Jan. 15, the company said in a separate note on Jan. 16.
Citigroup said daily yen volumes were 110 percent of average on
Jan. 16, in its CitiFX Wire report to clients that day.  Foreign-exchange trading volumes slumped last year as
central-bank efforts to cap borrowing costs through bond
purchases, and in some cases to limit gains in the currencies,
stifled price swings.  Compressed Margins  Deutsche Bank (DBK) , which is due to report earnings tomorrow,
said in October that compressed margins cut foreign-exchange
revenue “significantly” in the third quarter. Barclays said
last year that currency sales were declining, while fourth-
placed dealer UBS AG said profits had been hurt by lower
volatility.  U.K. currency-trading volumes fell to an average $1.92
trillion a day in October, 5 percent lower than its previous
survey in April, the  Bank of England  said yesterday, citing a
twice-a-year survey of financial institutions.  Average trading volumes in the U.S. and  Canada  also
declined in October from six months earlier, while those in
 Japan  increased, separate surveys from foreign-exchange
committees in these countries showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  