-- Writedowns Near $50 Billion as M&A Haunts Mine CEOs: Commodities
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-01-30T16:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/writedowns-near-50-billion-as-m-a-haunts-mine-ceos-commodities.html
The world’s biggest mining and steel
companies have wiped about $50 billion off project valuations in
the past year and the purge is poised to continue this earnings
season as managers reassess expensive takeovers.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Vale SA (VALE3)  and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  led the
writedowns as declining metal prices, rising project costs and
slowing demand forced reviews.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  may
write down some nickel and copper assets acquired through its
takeover of  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , Liberum Capital Ltd. has said.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  may trim aluminum operation valuations, according
to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  Executives and shareholders are paying the price for a $1.1
trillion M&A binge over a decade. Failed deals in aluminum and
coal caused $14 billion in writedowns at Rio and cost Chief
Executive Officer Tom Albanese his job this month. Cost overruns
contributed to  Cynthia Carroll ’s departure as CEO of Anglo
American, which slashed $4 billion off the value of its Minas-
Rio iron-ore project in  Brazil  yesterday. She leaves in April.  “Companies are now starting to come clean with many of the
mistakes they’ve made over the last few years,”  Evy Hambro ,
manager of BlackRock Inc.’s $12 billion World Mining Fund, said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “It wouldn’t
surprise me to see more writedowns.”  A writedown is a reduction in the value of an asset carried
on a company’s financial statement if it’s deemed to be
overstated compared to the current market value. Estimated
valuations can be reviewed over time.  Share Performance  Anglo American fell 20 percent in  London  trading last year,
while Glencore slipped 10 percent. BHP gained 13 percent and  Rio
Tinto  12 percent. Earnings from Melbourne-based BHP are due Feb.
20, while Glencore’s 2012 financials are expected March 5.  The mining industry’s merger and acquisition missteps have
been compounded by higher costs for energy, labor and
construction materials. That has trimmed profits, sapped
investor appetite for further deals and spurred calls for
greater returns.  The Bloomberg World Mining Index rose 2.9 percent last year
after dropping 31 percent in 2011. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  gained 7.3 percent last year and 5.5 percent in 2011.  Glencore may write down as much as $2 billion following its
$37 billion takeover of Xstrata Plc, due to be completed in
March, according to  Richard Knights , an analyst at Liberum said.  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, may lower the
valuation of its nickel and aluminum assets by about $5 billion,
Bernstein said in a report today, while Goldman Sachs said in
January that BHP may take a $2 billion to $3 billion impairment
on aluminum. BHP in August announced a $3.3 billion charge on
gas and nickel assets. Spokesmen for BHP and Glencore declined
to comment.  Hangover Effect  Rio Tinto slipped 0.7 percent to 3,552 pence by the close
in London, while BHP was little changed at 2,149 pence. Anglo
American fell 2.3 percent and Glencore dropped 0.6 percent.  “It’s a hangover effect from the metals and mining
euphoria we’ve had in the past 5 to 10 years,”  Jeff Largey , a
London-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in an
interview. “Decisions made are now coming home to roost.”  Natural resources companies went on a deal spree in the
past decade, spending $1.1 trillion chasing growth, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Merger and acquisition activity
peaked in 2006 when mining and metal businesses spent more than
$200 billion.  Anglo American said yesterday its Minas-Rio project, which
has been dogged by delays and budget overruns, will now cost
$8.8 billion to develop, up from $2.6 billion when Anglo bought
it in 2008. Anglo’s biggest shareholder, South Africa’s Public
Investment Corp., said in October that Carroll made poor
decisions on how to spend cash.  Clear Decks  The Anglo writedown will help “clear the decks” for new
CEO  Mark Cutifani , according to Paul Gait, a mining analyst at
Bernstein.  Vale is taking a $4.2 billion charge after lowering the
valuation of a nickel mine and its stake in aluminum producer
 Norsk Hydro ASA. (NHY)  The Rio de Janeiro-based company expects to
announce a second impairment “of around $50 million to $100
million in several different assets” with the release of its
2012 results in February, Chief Financial Officer Luciano Siani
said Dec. 6.  “Our intention is to clean up the balance sheet quite
soon,” he told a presentation to investors in London.  Several management teams have been made to pay for their
mistakes. BHP chief Marius Kloppers forewent his bonus after the
writedown, while Rio’s Albanese went without a bonus in 2011 and
2012 after further writedowns on Alcan assets.  Bad Deals  BHP’s share price has “suffered from the perceived bad
deals conducted in shale gas,” Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in
a Jan. 18 note.  The company said last week the strong Australian dollar and
weak prices were hurting its local alumina and nickel
operations, spurring speculation of possible writedowns or asset
sales.  “If the companies had been better guardians of shareholder
capital then we would have better performance from the shares.”
Hambro said in a Jan. 17 interview. “What we are after is just
greater discipline in the way these companies allocate the
capital because these are mistakes. These are things that
shouldn’t have been done.”  Gold CEOs have also angered investors.  Kinross Gold Corp. (KGC) ’s
CEO Tye Burt was fired after he presided over a $2.49 billion
writedown on the Tasiast mine in  Mauritania , an asset Kinross
acquired as part of its C$8 billion ($8 billion) purchase of Red
Back Mining Inc. Newmont Mining Corp. took a $1.61 billion
writedown on its Hope Bay project in Canada, while  Barrick Gold
Corp. (ABX)  CEO Aaron Regent left in June against a backdrop of cost
overruns.  Steel Writedowns  “Investors have to share some of the blame,” said Largey.
“They were pushing companies to grow, they were rewarding
companies that had the most attractive growth pipeline and now
they’ve swung to the other side saying it’s all about capital
discipline and allocation.”  Steel producers have also been forced to adjust the value
of their businesses as Europe’s economic crisis saps demand and
slower Chinese growth weighs on commodity prices.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, said last
month that it will write down its European business by $4.3
billion as the region’s weakening economy erodes demand and
leaves producers with excess capacity. ThyssenKrupp AG last
month took a 3.6 billion-euro ($4.8 billion) charge on its
Americas unit as the company seeks to sell the two plants that
cost more than 10 billion euros to build.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  