-- Yingli Expects Gross Margin to Rise to 20% Should Prices Recover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-30T06:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/yingli-expects-gross-margin-to-rise-to-20-should-prices-recover.html
Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , the
world’s biggest silicon-based solar panel maker by capacity,
expects gross margin to rise to as much as 20 percent this year
if module prices rebound and production costs drop.  “Our production costs will decline considerably as new
materials and technology are used, economy of scale intensifies
and conversion efficiency rises,” Bryan Li, chief financial
officer, said yesterday in an interview from Baoding, China,
where the company is based. “Module prices have been steady for
some time and will return to a more rational level.”  The comments reflect growing optimism among solar
manufacturers in China following a 61 percent plunge in panel
prices in the past two years because of oversupply. The  17-
member Bloomberg Global Large Solar Energy Index (BISOLAR) , which includes
Yingli, has gained 21 percent this year compared with a loss of
26 percent last year.  Solar manufacturers have been contending with a global glut
that’s driving down prices and cutting into margins as
governments from  Europe  to the U.S. reduce support. Photovoltaic
panel  price s have begun to recovery slightly, rising 6 percent
since the end of December, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  Yingli in November reported gross margin was negative in
the third quarter for the first time since listing on the  New
York  stock exchange in 2007, coming in at minus 23 percent
because of falling prices and lower sales in  Germany . Current
gross margin is in “single digits,’ Li said.  Shipments Increasing  Yingli’s target ‘‘is very optimistic but possible,” Wang Xiaoting, a Beijing-based analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said. “Module prices are at bottom and very likely to
rebound and the average cost will fall as shipments rise.”  Yingli will increase shipments by at least 50 percent this
year compared with 2012 when it shipped more than 2.2 gigawatts,
Li said. The world will add no less than 35 gigawatts of solar-
power installations in 2013, increasing from an estimated 30
gigawatts in the previous year, he forecast.  The market in  China , which will account for about a third
of Yingli’s panels this year, will increase the fastest amid the
nation’s plans to more than double installations in 2013, Li
said. More growth will also come in markets such as the U.K. and
 Romania  while Germany and  Italy  slow, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  