-- Zambia Kwacha World’s Worst Performer as Miners Withhold Dollars
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-01-30T14:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/zambia-kwacha-world-s-worst-performer-as-miners-withhold-dollars.html
Zambia ’s kwacha retreated for a
third day, reaching the lowest in almost four years, amid
speculation mining companies refrained from selling dollars in
the market.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest copper producer fell 0.5
percent to 5.3772 a dollar as of 4:23 p.m. in Lusaka, the
capital, the lowest level since May 2009. The kwacha has
retreated 2.9 percent in the past three days, the worst
performance of all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Mining companies, the source of almost 80 percent of
Zambia’s foreign earnings, are the biggest suppliers of dollars,
the currency in which copper is globally traded. Higher demand
for the U.S. currency from the manufacturing, telecommunications
and energy industries is being countered with lower supply from
copper producers, according to Stanley Tamele, head of global
markets at  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s Zambian unit.  “A good number of them have good balances of local
currency so there is no need for them to be selling dollars,”
he said in a phone interview today.  The kwacha will probably strengthen to 5.30 if the Bank of
Zambia intervenes, Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, a Johannesburg-based
Africa strategist at  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s Rand Merchant Bank unit,
said by phone.  “You will see strengthening in the short term,” she said.
“The central banks wants to keep the kwacha focused and
centered on that 5.30 level.”  Emmanuel Pamu, economics director for the central bank,
declined to comment on any specific action taken.  “We intervene in line with our policy, which is to smooth
fluctuations in the exchange rate,” he said by phone from
Lusaka. The central bank will intervene “either way” if the
kwacha appreciates or depreciates sharply, he said.  Zambia’s central statistics office is scheduled to announce
the January inflation figure tomorrow, after prices accelerated
7.3 percent in December, the fastest in a year. A weaker
currency puts further pressure on inflation, as the land-locked
country imports goods from road-building equipment to
fertilizers.  The kwacha will probably strengthen over 2013 as Zambia’s
copper production grows, ending the year at 4.80 to the dollar,
Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  