-- ZTE Plans to Boost 2013 Smartphone Shipments by 50% With LTE
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-30T08:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-30/zte-plans-to-boost-2013-smartphone-shipments-by-50-with-lte.html
ZTE Corp. (000063) ,  China ’s second-largest
maker of telephone equipment, said it plans to boost smartphone
shipments 50 percent this year with a focus on high-end phones
that run on fourth-generation, Long-Term Evolution, networks.  ZTE’s smartphone shipments more than doubled to 35 million
units last year, from 15.8 million units in 2011, Lv Qianhao,
global marketing director at ZTE’s  handset division , said at a
briefing in Hong Kong today.  The  company , based in Shenzhen, is counting on increased
sales of smartphones in developed markets such as the U.S.,
Europe and Japan to help it return to profitability this year
after its first estimated annual loss in at least 17 years.
Growth in shipments will probably be slower than the company’s
expectations, according to Lisa Soh, a Hong Kong-based analyst
with Macquarie Group Ltd.  “The smartphone market both domestically and
internationally will remain competitive in 2013,” said Soh, who
forecasts a 32 percent increase in the company’s smartphone
shipments this year and  rates  the shares the equivalent of a
sell. “ZTE may have to sacrifice pricing in order to see
significant volume uplift.”  The telephone equipment maker on Jan. 20 month said it had
an estimated net loss of as much as 2.9 billion  yuan  ($466
million) last year citing delays in domestic and international
network projects. It had posted a  net income  of 2.06 billion
yuan in 2011.  Brand Recognition  ZTE’s smartphone shipments jumped 48 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year to 9.5 million units, capturing 4.3 percent
of the global market, researcher IDC said this month.  That
ranked ZTE fifth worldwide after Samsung Electronics Co.,  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  Huawei Technologies Co. and Sony Corp.  “At present, consumers can easily recognize Apple or
Samsung branded smartphones,” Lv told reporters in Hong Kong.
“We hope consumers can also easily recognize ZTE’s brand in the
future.”  ZTE climbed 1.7 percent to close at HK$14.82 in  Hong Kong .
The shares have declined 30 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with an 18 percent increase in the  Hang Seng Index .  The company plans to double its share of the U.S. handset
market to as much as 10 percent by 2015, ZTE said this month.
That would also boost its U.S. sales ranking to fourth from
fifth.  The handset maker, which won sales in China by focusing on
low-end smartphones costing under $161, is now developing more
advanced and expensive models as it tries to lure consumers from
Apple and Samsung.  At the International  Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas 
this month ZTE unveiled its new flagship handset, the Grand S,
designed for Long Term Evolution networks. It has a 5-inch
screen and runs Google Inc.’s Android Jelly Bean system, enabled
by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s Snapdragon S4 Pro processor.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  