-- Ackermann Says Allowing Euro to Fail to Be Costlier
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-04-15T12:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/ackermann-says-euro-destruction-more-costly-than-deepening-union.html
Josef Ackermann , the former chief
executive officer of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  who now chairs Zurich
Insurance Group AG, said allowing the euro to fail would be more
costly than deepening the region’s fiscal and political ties.  “The destruction of the euro system would be much more
expensive than the further construction,” Ackermann said in an
interview in  Kuwait City  on April 13. “We need a united  Europe 
to negotiate at eye level with other major regions like the
U.S.,  China , India and some other countries.”  While financial markets calmed after  European Central Bank 
President  Mario Draghi  pledged in July to do whatever it takes
to safeguard the euro, the currency-bloc is now in its second
year of recession, battered by a debt crisis that’s forced five
of its 17 members to take bailouts. Countries continue to spar
over issues such as building a common fund for  bank failures .  EU nations have injected 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion)
of support to their banking systems since October 2008,
according to European Commission data. Draghi’s pledge to save
the euro -- and the later announcement of an unlimited bond-
purchase program for countries committed to reforms -- helped
drive stock indices such as the  S&P 500 (SPX)  to record highs on
speculation the bank is committed to propping up the union.  Growth Issues  “We have, thanks to the actions of the European Central
Bank, clearly entered more calmer water, and financial markets
have responded positively to that,” Ackermann said. “Some of
the fundamental challenges of the set-up of the euro system as
well as questions of governance are still not adequately
addressed.”  The European Central Bank and  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, have called for the creation of a
European Resolution Authority, backed with a common fund, to
intervene at crisis-hit banks in the euro area, saying the step
is an essential part of efforts to build a so-called banking
union that would untangle the fates of lenders and sovereigns.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told his EU
counterparts at a meeting in Dublin April 12-13 that there isn’t
enough of a basis in the EU’s current rulebook for this, while
others such as France and Denmark are urging swift progress on
putting in place a resolution system to prevent delays.  Europe is still confronted with major issues of “growth,
 job creation , competitiveness of some countries and helping
manage the European situation from a political point of view,”
Ackermann said. “We need more integration and more coordination
among policy makers, and more integration into some sort of a
fiscal union.”  ‘Russian Roulette’  The investing mood is confused with two very different
futures of Europe either pulling itself together and keeping the
euro going or “things fall apart and the euro comes apart,” J.  Christopher Flowers , chairman and chief executive officer of
private equity firm JC Flowers & Co., said at the Bloomberg Link
Doha Conference on April 9.  “We sort of liken it to Russian roulette, in the sense
that on the one hand five of the chambers are empty, meaning
that the euro hangs together,” Flowers said. “But the problem
is, in chamber number six is the fatal bullet. So it’s not like
if the euro falls apart we’ll have a bad weekend, its gonna be
really quite a scene if that occurs.”  The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.3095 at 1:26 p.m. London
time. The 17-nation currency has dropped 0.8 percent against the
dollar this year.  National Bank of Kuwait  Ackermann spoke from the Kuwaiti capital after joining
 National Bank of Kuwait  SAK’s International Advisory Board in
July, sitting with bankers such as Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian and former Institute of International
Finance managing director  Charles Dallara .  “The problem in Europe, the problem in the  United States ,
is that these countries are trying to pivot from an old model of
growth that depended on debt and leverage, to a new model of
growth,” El-Erian told a symposium organised by the bank.  “In order to help this pivot, the central banks are buying
time for the system to adjust,” he said. “In the case of the
United States, there is hope over the long-term that this new
model of growth will in fact emerge. In the case of Europe,
unfortunately, there’s reason to be less optimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  