-- Adam Scott Claims Australia’s First Masters Golf Win in Playoff
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/adam-scott-wins-australia-s-first-masters-golf-title-in-playoff.html
Adam Scott  gave Australia its first
champion in the 77-year history of golf’s  Masters Tournament  by
outlasting  Angel Cabrera  in a playoff.  Scott made a birdie putt from about 12 feet (3.6 meters) in
the rain on the second hole of the sudden-death shootout
yesterday after both players finished tied with a four-round
total of 9-under par 279 at Augusta National Golf Club in
Augusta, Georgia. Jason Day, another Australian, was third at 7-
under par, two shots better than  Tiger Woods  and Marc Leishman.  The Masters had been the only one of golf’s four major
tournaments that had never been won by an Australian. While
Scott and Day tied for second in 2011,  Greg Norman  was a runner-
up three times in Augusta, most famously in 1996, when he blew a
six-shot lead in the final round and was beaten by  Nick Faldo .
Australians Jack Newton (1980) and Bruce Crampton (1972) also
finished second at the Masters.  “Golf is a big sport at home,” Scott told reporters
yesterday. “It’s been a sport that’s been followed with a long
list of great players, and this was one thing in golf that we
had not been able to achieve. It’s amazing that it’s my destiny
to be the first Aussie to win.”  Scott, who received $1.44 million along with the ceremonial
green jacket, is the 10th Australian to win a major and the
first since  Geoff Ogilvy  at the 2006  U.S. Open .  Australian Winners  Norman won the British Open twice, while Peter Thomson
captured it five times from 1954 to 1965.  David Graham  won the
1979  PGA Championship  and the 1981 U.S. Open, while other
Australian major winners were Steve Elkington at the 1995 PGA
Championship, Ian Baker-Finch at the 1991 British Open, Wayne Grady at the 1990 PGA Championship, Kel Nagle at the 1960
British Open and Jim Ferrier at the 1947 PGA Championship.  Scott and Cabrera were tied for the lead at 8-under par
coming to the final hole when Scott, playing in a group ahead of
Cabrera, rolled in a 25-foot birdie putt at the 18th green in a
steady rain. Scott shouted “Come on, Aussie!” and celebrated
with his caddie,  Steve Williams , before taking an Australian
flag from a patron as he walked off the green.  Cabrera, who watched the celebration from the fairway,
followed by hitting his approach shot to three feet, setting up
a tying birdie that forced the tournament’s 17th playoff. It was
the first time in Masters history that two players both birdied
the final hole to force a playoff. It was the third shootout in
five years, as  Bubba Watson  beat  Louis Oosthuizen  on the second
playoff hole last year, while Cabrera won a three-way playoff
against  Kenny Perry  and Chad Campbell in 2009.  Near Miss  Cabrera, at 43 seeking to become the Masters’ second-oldest
winner behind  Jack Nicklaus , had a birdie chip roll just past
the edge of the cup on the 18th hole to start the playoff and
then left a curling 15-foot birdie putt just behind the hole on
the second hole, the par-4 10th. Scott followed by making his
winning stroke with a putter he anchors on his upper chest.  “That’s how golf is,” Cabrera, whose two wins in the U.S.
were both majors, said through a translator. “I had a chip on
18 that could have won it, but Adam is a good winner. He’s a
great person, a great player. I’m happy for him.”  Cabrera entered the Masters at 269 in the Official World
Golf Ranking, one spot behind Arnond Vongvanij of Thailand and
23 behind  John Daly , a two-time major winner who was not in the
Masters field and was selling his Loudmouth Golf clothing line
this week in the parking lot of a Hooters restaurant down the
street from Augusta National.  Shot Behind  Scott had started the final round tied for third at 6-
under, one shot behind co-leaders Cabrera and Brandt Snedeker,
and closed with a 3-under 69. He’s now the fourth straight
player to come from behind in the final round to win the
Masters, following  Phil Mickelson  in 2010, Charl Schwartzel in
2011 and Watson last year. It’s the first time there’s been four
straight comeback wins at the Masters since 1984-87.  This was the third consecutive year the Masters winner
wasn’t in the final pairing. Before 2011, the champion came out
of the last group 19 of the previous 20 years.  Scott, 32, won his first major title in his 48th attempt.
His streak of 47 consecutive major appearances is second among
active players behind only  Sergio Garcia . Only four players in
the Masters field had played in more majors without a victory
than Scott, who entered the tournament ranked seventh in the
world. This was his ninth  PGA Tour  win.  Woods’s 2013 Masters will be remembered by one hole that
may have resulted in a four-shot swing, the difference between a
tie for fourth and possibly a 15th major title.  “We could do a ‘what-if’ on every tournament we lose,”
Woods told reporters. “We lose more tournaments than we win.
But I certainly had my opportunities to post some good rounds
this week. I thought I really played well.”  Woods’s Penalty  Woods was tied for the lead late in the second round when
his third shot on the par-5 15th hole hit the flag stick on the
fly and ricocheted back into the pond in front of the green.  It turned a potential birdie into a bogey and Woods the
next day was assessed an additional two-shot penalty for taking
an improper drop about two yards behind where he originally hit
from.  Some argued the violation should have disqualified Woods,
or that he should have withdrawn for knowingly gaining an
advantage with the improper drop.  Woods was saved from disqualification by a 2011 rules
revision protecting players from scorecard errors caused by
advances in video technology, as the violation was discovered
after a television viewer alerted tournament officials and Woods
wasn’t informed about it until a day later.  Masters officials said disqualification wasn’t under
consideration and Woods said he made a mistake and never thought
about withdrawing.  Watson’s Finish  Watson, who won the 2012 playoff on the second extra hole,
tied for 50th place this year at 7-over par. He closed with a
final-round 77 that included a 10 on the par-3 12th hole, where
he hit three balls into Rae’s Creek.  Three-time Masters champion Phil Mickelson was 9-over, his
second-worst finish in 20 appearances as a professional. It was
just the second time in the past 16 years that Mickelson was
above par at the Masters.  “I just had an off year,” Mickelson said. “I played
poorly. But this was disappointing for me in that this is my
favorite place in the world to play.”  Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland, who’s second in the world
rankings to Woods, followed his third-round 79 with a 69 today
to finish 2-over par and tied for 25th.  Fred Couples , the 1992
Masters winner who at 53 was one shot off the lead after two
rounds, tied for 13th at 1-under par.  Tianlang Guan, the 14-year-old Chinese amateur who is the
youngest player in a major golf championship in 148 years,
finished 12-over par after a final-round 75. The eighth-grader,
who earned a spot in the field by winning the Asia-Pacific
Amateur Championship in November, said playing in the Masters
was the biggest accomplishment of his life.  “It’s not easy to play here, to make the cut and be low
amateur,” said Guan, the only one of six amateurs to play the
final two rounds. “I did a pretty good job this week and can’t
believe it’s over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta, Georgia, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  