-- Manchester United Beats Stoke 2-0 to Close On 20th English Title
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-04-14T23:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/manchester-united-beats-stoke-2-0-to-close-on-20th-english-title.html
Manchester United  won 2-0 at  Stoke
City  to move to within seven points of a record-extending 20th
English league soccer championship. Sunderland defeated
Newcastle 3-0 in the northeast derby.  Michael Carrick  opened the scoring for United in the fourth
minute yesterday before  Robin van Persie  converted a second-half
penalty kick to end his goal drought. The victory restored
United’s 15-point lead over defending champion  Manchester City 
atop the standings with six matches left.  “I have told the players that we are going to take the
next six games as the start of the season and try to win them
all,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told reporters. “We are a
game closer. The important thing is not to take our eye off the
ball. Coming here is always a difficult game but the players
persevered and it was an important victory.”  United leads the Premier League with 80 points from 32 of
38 games, followed by City, with 65 from 31 matches. Then come
Arsenal (59), Chelsea and Tottenham (both 58) and Everton (55).
City beat Chelsea 2-1 yesterday to reach the F.A. Cup final
against Wigan.  Carrick took advantage of indecisive defending from a
corner kick to give United a lead it never relinquished.  Van Persie  made the game safe from the penalty spot in the
66th minute after he was fouled by Andy Wilkinson. His 20th
league goal of the season was his first for United since early
February, a span of 751 minutes, according to Opta Sports.  “I had to score that one and thankfully it went in,” Van
Persie, who celebrated by giving Ferguson a bear-hug, said in a
televised interview. “After that the relief of a couple of
weeks came out. I wanted to celebrate with everyone.”  Relegation ‘Dogfight’  The defeat drops Stoke to 16th place behind Sunderland on
goal difference, only three points above the three-team
relegation zone.  “It’s a dogfight with eight or nine teams down there
battling,” said Stoke manager  Tony Pulis . “But this is when
you need characters and you need people to step up to the mark.
We need to roll our sleeves up.”  Sunderland’s win at Newcastle clinched a first victory for
new manager Paolo Di Canio.  Stephane Sessegnon gave the visiting team the lead in the
27th minute at St. James’ Park.  Adam Johnson  made it 2-0 in the
74th minute with a left-foot curling shot from outside the
penalty area.  David Vaughan slammed in a shot from the left of the area
for the third goal in the 82nd minute. It was Di Canio’s second
game in charge.  At the bottom of the standings, Reading and Queens Park
Rangers have 24 points, with Wigan on 31, and  Aston Villa , Stoke
and Sunderland all on 34. Norwich has 35 and Newcastle 36.  Two days ago, Arsenal beat Norwich 3-1, Aston Villa drew
1-1 with Fulham, and West Ham tied 1-1 at Southampton. Reading
drew 0-0 with Liverpool and Everton defeated QPR 2-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  