-- Thatcher Funeral to Feature Her Own Favorite Hymns, Poems
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-04-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/thatcher-funeral-sees-cameron-reading-traditional-hymns.html
The funeral of  Margaret Thatcher  in
two days time will feature her own choice of favorite hymns and
poetry amid the pomp of the service in  London ’s St. Paul’s
Cathedral and a procession with full military honors.  The former British premier took an active part in deciding
on the order of service. “He Who Would Valiant Be,” originally
written by John Bunyan, and “Love Divine, All Loves Excelling”
by Charles Wesley, reflecting the former premier’s Methodist
upbringing, will be among those sung, according to  details
released  by Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s office yesterday. The
final hymn will be the patriotic “I Vow to Thee My Country” to
the music of Gustav Holst. Poems by William Wordsworth and T.S.
Eliot will be printed on the order of service.  “The basic shape of this funeral has been in place for
many years now,” Francis Maude, the Cabinet Office minister who
has been in charge of the organization of the event, told Sky 
News television yesterday. “She didn’t obsess about it, but she 
took an interest and so she had some very clear views. For 
example, she was adamant she didn’t want there to be any 
question of a lying in state.”  More than 2,000 invitations have gone out for the service,
with all surviving former British premiers and U.S. presidents
asked to attend. The ceremonial funeral with full military
honors is the biggest such event for a political leader since
the state funeral for  Winston Churchill  in 1965.  Queen Elizabeth II  will lead the mourners. Thatcher, who was the Conservative
prime minister from 1979 to 1990, died on April 8 at the age of
87 after a stroke.  Bible Readings  Cameron will give one of the two readings, with the other
by one of Thatcher’s grandchildren, Amanda. Both will be from
the King James Bible, the early 17th-century translation that
has come to be regarded as among the most influential works in
the English language.  “Lady Thatcher was particularly fond of the King James
Bible and found its prose to be beautifully poetic,” Cameron’s
office said in a statement on its website.  The funeral starts at 11 a.m. after Thatcher’s coffin
arrives in a military horse-drawn procession. A single half-
muffled bell will toll at the cathedral. Amanda Thatcher and her
brother, Michael, the children of Thatcher’s son Mark, will
carry cushions bearing their grandmother’s honors -- the Order
of the Garter and the Order of Merit -- before the coffin and
lay them on the altar.  New Archbishop  The address will be given by the Bishop of London,  Richard Chartres , while the newly installed Archbishop of Canterbury,
Justin Welby, will give the blessing before the coffin is
carried out of St. Paul’s.  Thatcher’s death has prompted a divided reaction in the
U.K., with her Tory supporters lauding her economic reforms and
strength of character. Her political opponents have pointed to
the decline in traditional manufacturing and growing north-south
divide under her premiership.  The song ``Ding Dong! The Witch Is Dead'' from the movie 
``The Wizard of Oz'' reached No. 2 on  Britain's official singles 
chart  yesterday after an online campaign by anti-Thatcherites.  A ComRes Ltd. poll for the Independent on Sunday and Sunday
Mirror newspapers found 33 percent of respondents agreeing with
the proposition that she was Britain’s greatest peacetime prime
minister and 41 percent disagreeing. Fifty-nine percent agreed
that she was the most divisive premier they can remember.  ComRes interviewed 2,012 adults online on April 10 and 11.
It didn’t specify a margin of error.  Several hundred anti-Thatcherite protesters gathered in
 Trafalgar Square  in central London on the evening of April 13
for a demonstration intended to celebrate her death. A total of
16 people were arrested, the capital’s Metropolitan Police said
on its Twitter feed.  Falklands War  Roads in central London will be closed and Parliament
suspended for the service. More than 700 troops from U.K. units
that fought in the 1982 Falklands War with  Argentina  under
Thatcher’s government will line the route of the procession. The
former premier’s body will rest in the Houses of Parliament
overnight before the funeral.  Guests expected to attend the funeral include  Newt Gingrich , former speaker of the  House of Representatives  and a
candidate for the Republican nomination in the 2012  U.S.
presidential election , former Australian Prime Minister  John Howard  and former South African President F.W. de Klerk,
according to lists released by Cameron’s office last week.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and his Polish 
counterpart, Donald Tusk, will also attend, according to an 
announcement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  