-- Australia Plans A$14.5 Billion Boost to School Funding
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-04-14T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/australia-prime-minister-proposes-a-14-5-billion-in-school-funds.html
Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard yesterday unveiled a plan to boost education spending by
A$14.5 billion ($15.2 billion) over six years in what she called
the biggest overhaul of school funding in 40 years.  School grants will be allocated to individual students who
can choose to attend public, private or religious institutions,
Gillard said at a news conference in Canberra, broadcast on Sky
Television. The plan depends on state governments -- who will be
required to contribute a third of the cost -- signing up to it
by June 30.  The move, announced ahead of a federal election to be held
in September, is a response to a  review  last year by a panel
headed by Australian Future Fund Chairman David Gonski. It found
that spending may need to rise by about A$5 billion a year to
improve education at government-funded schools, particularly in
disadvantaged and rural areas.  “We cannot have the strong economy that we want tomorrow,
unless we have the best of education in our schools today,”
Gillard said. The reforms seek to “ensure that our schools are
in the world’s top five by 2025.”  The extra funds will equate to A$9,271 for each primary
school student and A$12,193 for secondary school students in
2014, with additional funding for indigenous students as well as
those with special needs and limited English proficiency,
Gillard said. The government will also commit to annual spending
growth of 4.7 percent, if states increase their own education
spending by 3 percent a year, she said.  ‘Difficult Position’  The plan’s requirements of Australia’s eight states and
territories put them “in a very difficult position,” Martin
Dixon, minister of education in Victoria’s ruling Liberal-
National coalition, said at a news conference broadcast on  Sky
News .  “Education is a state responsibility,” Dixon said. “We
shouldn’t be held to ransom on how that money should be spent.”  The  Australian Education Union  urged states and territories
to stop making “excuses,” saying additional resources are the
only way to ensure a high-quality education for all children.  “The cost of inaction will be far higher than the cost of
investment,”  Angelo Gavrielatos , president of the union, said
in an e-mailed release.  In the past decade, Australian children have gone from
being tied for second in reading to seventh, and from tied for
fifth to 13th in mathematics among nations in the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development, according to the
Gonski report.  Widening Gap  “The gap between the best-performing and the lowest-
performing students is higher in Australia than in other OECD
countries,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in his weekly economic
note yesterday. “This model has been developed by looking at
what our best schools achieve, how they do it, and how much it
costs them to achieve those results.”  The government must guarantee that the proposal will go to
Parliament and be passed before the election, the Australian
Greens party said.  “We’re willing to work with the government to get on with
it and to get this passed before the next election,” Senator
Penny Wright, the Greens spokeswoman for schools, said in an e-
mailed release. The government must also “rethink the drastic
cuts to higher education,” she said.  University Cuts  Reductions in support for university students and savings
from changes to the nation’s pension system will help pay for
the increases, Gillard said yesterday.  Australia  will make more than A$2 billion of cuts to
university support, Tertiary Education Minister Craig Emerson
and Swan said on April 13. The cuts will come from ending a 10
percent discount students and parents receive for paying
university fees upfront, requiring students to repay scholarship
funds, and limiting education tax deductions.  Swan last week announced plans to curb tax concessions for
wealthy Australians saving for retirement, seeking savings of
about A$900 million over four years.  The prime minister has pledged to restrain spending ahead
of the May 14 release of the annual budget. The  budget deficit 
rose to A$23.6 billion for the first eight months of the
financial year, A$5.7 billion wider than earlier projected,
primarily due to lower  tax revenue  and higher personal benefit
payments, according to Treasury figures released on April 12.  Gillard is campaigning to reverse a 10 percentage-point gap
in opinion polls behind a political opposition led by  Tony Abbott  in the run-up to national elections on Sept. 14.  Legacy Secure  Win or lose in September, the prime minister said last week
that her legacy is secure after introducing a carbon price,
which took effect on July 1. Improvements in education, from
early childhood to apprenticeships, to universities are also
“closest to my heart,” she said.  These achievements are about giving children the best
possible start in life and also “about the long-term future of
this country,” Gillard told Bloomberg in an interview. “When
I’m an older person and sitting back in the retirement home
watching our nation, I will be seeing a stronger nation because
we have done those things.”  Spending on education will be boosted by A$5 billion in New
South Wales over the next six years, A$4 billion in Victoria and
A$3.8 billion in Queensland, according to details on the
 betterschools.gov.au  website. The additional spending in  South
Australia  will be A$600 million, A$400 million in Tasmania,
A$300 million in Western Australia and the Northern Territory
while it rises by A$100 million in the Australian Capital
Territory.  States and territories will be required to maintain current
spending and stop further cuts, according to the website.  “The New South Wales government has constructively
supported Gonski because we see it as a win for students,”
Adrian Piccoli, minister for education in the state’s Liberal-
National coalition government, said in an e-mailed release. “We
will continue to work constructively with the Commonwealth to
turn this review into an opportunity for all of our students.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  