-- Banks Drop Off IsdaFix Panel Amid Rate-Rigging Probes
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-04-15T08:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/banks-drop-off-isdafix-panel-amid-rate-rigging-probes.html
Banks are leaving the panel that
sets ISDAFix, the benchmark for the $379 trillion swaps market,
as regulators probe suspected manipulation of the rate.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest bank by assets, and
 Japan ’s  Mizuho Financial Group (8411)  stopped contributing to the
ISDAFix dollar rate between November and January, and haven’t
been replaced, documents on the  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association ’s website show. The industry group
didn’t give any reason for the lenders’ departure.  Firms are pulling out of rates such as the  London  interbank
offered rate, Euribor and ISDAFix on growing concern that they
may face lawsuits, fines and criminal penalties if found to have
engaged in wrongdoing. Without data from a large number of
firms, benchmarks risk becoming unrepresentative and losing the
confidence of the market, said Owen Watkins, a former regulator
at the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority.  Banks across the industry are “concerned about the
regulatory scrutiny and they don’t see any upside,” said
Watkins, who’s now a lawyer at Lewis Silkin LLP in London. “If
it continues, the authorities would look to compel institutions
to provide quotes, either through regulation or statute.”  Regulators including the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority, one of
the FSA’s successors, are working on a set of principles to
govern all financial benchmarks after they fined  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  more than $2.5
billion for rigging Libor. The CFTC has issued subpoenas to
brokers at  ICAP Plc (IAP)  and as many as 15 banks amid allegations
ISDAFix was rigged,  Bloomberg News  reported on April 8.  Bank Estimates  ISDAFix is used as a reference for parties looking to
settle interest-rate options and cancel swaps contracts. The
rates were created in 1998 by ISDA with the predecessors of ICAP
and Thomson Reuters Corp., which competes with Bloomberg LP, the
parent company of Bloomberg News, in providing news,
information, and trading systems to the financial community.  Rates are published in eight currencies and the U.S.
Federal Reserve includes them in a daily report on money
markets. Like Libor, it is based on an average of submissions
from banks rather than actual trade data, leaving it vulnerable
to manipulation, according to William Gilmore, a former futures
broker and founder of Gilmore & Co., a risk analysis and
derivative-valuation firm based in Bath, western  England .  Jersey City  The CFTC is probing whether ICAP brokers delayed updating
rate-swaps prices on the so-called 19901 screen, which displays
swaps prices, after they facilitated a trade between banks,
according to one person familiar with the matter and a former
broker in ICAP’s  Jersey City  rate-swaps group who both asked not
to be identified because of the investigation. Publishing stale
prices can potentially boost profits for banks in a market where
trades are tied to tens of millions of dollars at a time.  ICAP said in an April 9 statement it maintains policies
prohibiting price manipulation and is cooperating with the
CFTC’s wider inquiry. The shares were down almost 3 percent at
289.7 pence as of 9:26 a.m. in London trading today.  The decision by HSBC and Mizuho reduced the number of banks
on the panel to 13. ISDA has since cut the minimum number of
quotes required to generate the rate each day to eight from 10.
Spokesmen for ICAP and ISDA declined to comment. Officials at
Mizuho didn’t respond to requests for comment.  HSBC Review  “HSBC reviews its participation in benchmark reference
rates settings on an ongoing basis,” the London-based lender
said in an e-mailed statement. Officials at the bank declined to
comment on specific benchmarks.  Other firms have already reduced their contributions to
benchmark rates. UBS, Citigroup Inc. and Rabobank Groep have all
stopped contributing to Euribor, the  interbank rate  for euros.
Rabobank withdrew in June from contributing to Libor in
currencies including the Japanese yen and the Swiss franc.
Barclays has left the panel that sets the United Arab Emirates’
interbank rate, while RBS no longer contributes to similar rates
in  Singapore ,  Tokyo  and  Hong Kong .  Martin Wheatley, the U.K. regulator charged with
overhauling Libor, said in a September  report  it might be
necessary to force firms to contribute to financial benchmarks
“if submitting banks were to explore leaving.”  Michel Barnier ,
the European Union’s internal market and services commissioner,
said in February he was considering forcing lenders to
participate in benchmarks including Euribor.  “The issue is one of continuity,” said  Peter Hahn , a
finance professor at London’s Cass Business School and a former
managing director at Citigroup. “When you’ve got markets with
so many contracts outstanding, there’s concern there could be
disruption so there’s a huge effort to make sure the market
continues to function. We need to balance the need to continue
existing benchmarks with developing a set of truly independent
benchmarks that are based on actual transactions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  