-- Biofuels to Cost U.K. Motorists $707 Million, Chatham House Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-04-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/biofuels-to-cost-u-k-motorists-707-million-chatham-house-says.html
Biofuels will cost U.K. motorists
about 460 million pounds ($707 million) this year as the
government increases their use in transport fuel, driving up
food prices in poorer countries, Chatham House said.  Britain’s program to expand biofuel use doesn’t offer value
for money and cheaper emissions reductions can be achieved
elsewhere with existing technologies, the London-based think
tank said today in a report.  European nations with  climate change  targets aim to boost
biofuel use because it’s less polluting than fossil fuels.
Environmental groups including Greenpeace  criticize  such
policies for the impact on food prices in poorer countries by
driving up demand for agricultural commodities and hastening
deforestation as expansion encroaches on rainforest.  “Current biofuels are at best an expensive way of reducing
emissions,” Rob Bailey, a researcher for energy, environment
and resources at Chatham House, said. “At worst they produce
more emissions than the fossil fuels they replace and contribute
to high and unstable food prices,” he said.  The U.K.’s Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation program to
boost biofuel use requires fuel suppliers to blend a proportion
of the clean fuel with the petrol and diesel they supply. From
today, the target rises to 5 percent of total fuel volume, the
most ever consumed in the U.K.  The economic cost of displacing fossil fuels with more
expensive biofuels containing less energy may be about 460
million pounds this financial year, with 322 million pounds in
additional costs to businesses,  Chatham House  said.  Additional Target  An additional European Union target to supply 10 percent of
transport energy from renewables by 2020 Britain must comply
with will require larger volumes of biofuels pushing those costs
to 1.3 billion pounds a year by 2020, the report said.  That scenario would entail ethanol consumption “several
times over” current levels, according to Chatham House. The
U.K.’s higher use of corn-based ethanol, accounting for 90
percent of ethanol supplied from April to October last year,
will drive up corn and other cereal prices with negative
consequences for poorer countries where cereal price spikes lead
to increased poverty and instability, the report said.  “Policy making needs to catch up with the evidence base,”
Bailey said. Without safeguards in EU or U.K. biofuel policy
dealing with the impact of biofuels on deforestation and food
security, the U.K. may fail to reach its EU target sustainably,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  