-- Bridgestone May Consume Less Rubber on U.S. Demand, Nomura Says
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2013-04-14T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/bridgestone-may-consume-less-rubber-on-u-s-demand-nomura-says.html
Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the biggest
tiremaker, may use 2.6 percent less rubber in the year though
December than projected in February as demand in the U.S. will
be slower than forecast, said a Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst.  A decline in raw material costs and the Japanese currency
mean the Tokyo-based company will still book a record profit
this year even with weaker demand, Hisahiro Yamaoka at the
equity research department said in an interview on April 11. His
recommendations on equities returned 15 percent in the past
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Makoto Shiomi, a
Bridgestone spokesman, said the tiremaker hasn’t changed any of
its estimates.  Bridgestone said on Feb. 18 it would probably consume a
record 1.93 million tons of rubber for tire production globally
this year, up 9.7 percent from last year. Yamaoka, who has
covered the tire industry for almost six years, said consumption
of natural and synthetic rubber may be 50,000 metric tons lower
than the company projection.  Slower demand from tiremakers may accelerate a drop in
rubber futures on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, the global
benchmark, which entered a  bear market  this month. The most-
active contract retreated 0.2 percent on April 12 to closed at
276.4 yen a kilogram ($2,779 a metric ton).  Bridgestone shares closed at 3,785 yen on April 12, the
highest level since July 1999. Yamaoka’s target for the stock is
2,900 yen while the  consensus  figure is 3,773 yen.  ‘Replacement Tires’  U.S. light-vehicle sales in March climbed 3.4 percent to
1.45 million, the highest monthly total for the industry since
August 2007, according to researcher Autodata Corp. The robust
deliveries were not enough to offset weakness in sales of
replacement tires, which represent about 70 percent of total
tire demand in the market, Yamaoka said.  “U.S. demand for replacement tires is not recovering as
people use them for a longer period than before,” he said.  Bridgestone’s February forecast for full-year operating
profit to jump 34 percent to 382 billion yen remains unchanged,
Shiomi said. The company plans to release the first-quarter
financial results on May 8.  Masahiro Akita, Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG, said in a report on April 9 that Bridgestone’s tire sales in
the U.S. and  Europe  will probably fall short of the company’s
projection.  The yen’s 13 percent slump against the dollar this year has
enabled Japanese tiremakers to lower prices to stimulate demand,
Yamaoka said. Possible reductions would be minor adjustments
rather than large discounts, as the companies want to maintain
product prices at high levels amid caution that the yen’s
depreciation may not last, he said.  A weakening yen is expected to boost Bridgestone profits by
62 billion yen this year, while declining rubber prices will
help the company cut costs by 28 billion yen, Yamaoka said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  