-- Bryant Out for Season as Lakers Seek Lock on NBA Playoff Berth
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/bryant-out-for-season-as-lakers-seek-lock-on-nba-playoff-berth.html
Kobe Bryant will be absent tonight
when the Los Angeles Lakers face the San Antonio Spurs, seeking
a win to move closer to the eighth and final playoff berth in
the National Basketball Association’s Western Conference.  Bryant, 34, who is averaging 27.3 points per game, had
surgery yesterday to repair a torn left Achilles tendon. He is
expected to be out six to nine months, Lakers’ head athletic
trainer Gary Vitti told reporters.  “Third-degree rupture,” Vitti said after looking at the
MRI. “It’s gone. It has to be sewn back together. He’ll be
immobilized for quite a while -- a month or more. Then like
anything else, he’ll start working on strength and range of
motion. This isn’t something you want to speed up or
accelerate.”  Bryant fell to the ground when he pushed off toward the
hoop late in the Lakers 118-116 win over Golden State. He hit
two tying free throws with three minutes, eight seconds to play
before he left the court April 12.  “Kobe showed some tremendous guts out there hitting the
two free throws that kept us in the game, and eventually we won
the game,” Vitti said. “I think it’s a big inspiration to our
players and we’re ready to play the next two games.”  The Lakers (43-37) hold the eighth spot in the conference
playoffs with the Utah Jazz (42-38) only one game back. After
tonight’s game against the Spurs (58-21), the Lakers finish the
season hosting the Houston Rockets on April 17. The Jazz are at
the Minnesota Timberwolves tomorrow and visit the Memphis
Grizzlies on April 17.  Vitti said Bryant’s injury added to a season that has been
“a nightmare.”  Steve Nash broke his leg, Steve Blake had abdominal surgery,
Jordan Hill needed hip surgery, Metta World Peace underwent knee
surgery, Dwight Howard had a labrum tear in his shoulder, and
Antawn Jamison will have wrist surgery after the season, Vitti
said.  “When you try to look at the ’whys,’ it’s bad luck,”
Vitti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  