-- Cameron Sends Out Tories to Make Friends, Influence EU
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-04-15T13:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/cameron-sends-out-tories-to-make-friends-influence-eu.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
sidestepping British diplomats to push a plan to loosen ties
with the European Union, instead encouraging his own lawmakers
to promote his most ambitious foreign-policy initiative.  With Cameron’s coalition with the Liberal Democrats split
on the policy, the U.K. Foreign Office is barred by its  rules 
from conducting negotiations on behalf of his Conservatives
alone. Some diplomats oppose the premier’s stance, according to
three people familiar with the talks.  Cameron has encouraged the Fresh Start Project, a group of
Tory lawmakers who have published proposals for overhauling the
EU, to meet ambassadors, journalists and their counterparts in
other countries to make the case for change and explore possible
avenues for achieving it. The prime minister wants to hold a
referendum by 2017 on staying in the 27-nation EU, a proposal
some diplomats see as a mistake, three people said.  “The Foreign Office are, bluntly, unambitious,” Andrea Leadsom, a member of Parliament and co-founder of Fresh Start,
said in an interview in  London . “I’ve had some extraordinarily
frustrating conversations with officials there. They say things
like: ‘You can only negotiate one or at the most two things at a
time.’ We’re being warmly encouraged to go on with our quest.”  Relying on party allies underscores Cameron’s balancing act
as he seeks to maintain British leverage on policies such as
financial regulation while threatening a possible exit from the
bloc.  ‘Extraordinary’ Process  “It’s extraordinary, I’ve never heard of anything like
this before,” Richard Whitman, professor of politics and
international relations at University of Kent and an associate
fellow at the Chatham House foreign-policy research group, said
in an interview. “It’s almost like a two-track diplomatic
process. The government has got plausible deniability.”  Liberal Democrat Business Secretary Vince Cable described
the Tory strategy as “a rather bizarre way to operate.”  “The other European countries are unlikely to take
seriously anything that doesn’t have the full weight of the
British government behind it,” Cable said in an interview in
London today. “Anything that involves going around the back of
the government and trying to negotiate directly is probably not
a sensible way to proceed.”  EU Missions  Leadsom will visit Berlin this month, with other
delegations going to  Poland  and the  Czech Republic  in May. A
trip to  Spain  is also planned. She said that while the group has
no official mandate from government, it is clear to those they
meet that “we are here with Cameron’s blessing.”  It is not only members of Fresh Start who have been
deployed.  Robert Buckland , a Conservative who describes himself
as “pro-European but not pro-status quo,” said he had been
part of cross-party trips organized by Tobias Ellwood, a
parliamentary aide to Europe Minister David Lidington. They
included a 24-hour visit to Paris in February, where the
delegation met politicians and civil servants.  “It’s being able to sit down with them and say what brings
us together, what divides us, and what can we do about it,”
Buckland said. “It’s a coordinated and concerted effort to give
as much support to ministers as possible.”  Even before Cameron announced his plan to renegotiate EU
membership terms in a Jan. 23 speech, it was causing
difficulties. The prime minister had planned to outline the
proposal abroad, and he was entitled to diplomatic support by
virtue of his office. Even so, the referendum proposal at the
heart of the speech was an announcement of the policy of the
 Conservative Party , not the coalition government.  Hague Embassy  U.K. diplomatic staff in  The Hague , where Cameron
originally wanted to speak, were told it would be a government
speech that contained a large amount of coalition policy,
according to two people familiar with the planning, who declined
to be identified because of the confidential nature of the
discussions.  In the event, Cameron had to delay the speech because of a
hostage crisis at a gas plant in  Algeria  involving British
workers, and he made his announcement the following week in
London.  Some diplomats questioned whether it was appropriate for
links to the speech to appear on British embassy websites, the
people said. Cameron’s officials usually remove party-political
content from speech transcripts before they’re posted on
government sites. On this occasion, they took the view that it
would be counterproductive to remove the referendum pledge, as
that was the most important part of the speech.  Reaching Merkel  While Cameron set out general themes for what sort of EU he
wanted to see, he offered few specifics. That has led European
diplomats to consult the Fresh Start group, Leadsom said. She’s
been told that Merkel has read their  “Manifesto for Change,” 
published Jan. 16.  “We were given a very heavy hint by the Foreign Office
that evangelizing on this in foreign capitals would be a good
thing,” Chris Heaton-Harris, a Tory lawmaker who will lead the
Fresh Start trip to Warsaw and  Prague , said in an interview.
“We’re not negotiating, we’re putting ideas forward and
listening to the reaction to them.”  The post-speech strategy, according to diplomats, is to
begin attempting to win concessions in the margins of talks even
before 2015, when a general election will give Cameron the
chance to put his plan to the country and then make it formal
government policy, if he wins.  ‘By Inclination’  “Civil servants are by inclination cautious,” Whitman
said. “What would happen if a diplomat was caught
renegotiating, when that hadn’t been agreed within the
coalition?”  The chief obstacle, the diplomats said, is any suggestion
of changes to EU treaties, which would be needed to deliver
Cameron’s desire to see the bloc change the way it makes
decisions and functions. Any overhaul that needed a referendum
would be unpopular with governments such as those of Ireland,
Denmark or  France  that might have to hold popular votes of their
own with the risk of defeat.  Cameron, who visited Merkel in  Germany  at the end of last
week, has argued that treaty change is inevitable to deal with
the decision-making processes of the countries that use the
European single currency.  According to Whitman, it’s also significant that other
countries are prepared to meet the Tory lawmaker delegations.  “It’s really interesting that other governments are
prepared to have discussions on what can be negotiated on,” he
said. “People think that the EU is black and white, in or out,
but there’s an awful lot of gray already.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  