-- CareFusion Cash Flow Seen Luring Buyout Firms: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-04-14T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/carefusion-cash-flow-seen-luring-buyout-firms-real-m-a.html
CareFusion Corp. (CFN) ’s medical pumps,
ventilators and medicine dispensers have already attracted the
attention of investors who sent the company’s stock to a record
last week. Now, it could get a look from private-equity firms.  Shares of the San Diego-based company have  climbed  23
percent this year as a turnaround plan helped expand margins and
 health-care stocks  led the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
CareFusion, which has one business that makes devices for
pumping fluids and drugs into patients and another that supplies
antiseptic products applied before surgery, could be acquired by
a private-equity firm and then broken into pieces to boost
returns, B. Riley & Co. said.  CareFusion’s surging stock price still values the company
at almost 13 times the $619 million of free cash flow it
generated in 2012, making it less expensive than 89 percent of
U.S. medical equipment and device makers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It also has a cash hoard equal to 20
percent of its $7.9 billion market value, the data show, making
a buyout of that size more feasible. CareFusion’s market-leading
positions and recurring revenue stream add to its appeal as a
takeover target, according to Bank of Montreal, which said
there’s still room to improve  profitability .  “It’s an attractive acquisition candidate,” Joanne Wuensch, a New York-based analyst at BMO Capital Markets, a
division of Bank of Montreal, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s definitely a cleaner company than it was a couple of
years ago, but by no means is the process complete.”  Stock Rise  Jim Mazzola, a spokesman at CareFusion, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked whether it’s for sale
or has been approached by leveraged-buyout firms. He reiterated
CareFusion’s plan to spend $2 billion over the next three years
on making its own acquisitions as well as repurchasing shares.  Since being spun off from drug distributor  Cardinal Health
Inc. (CAH)  in 2009, CareFusion’s  stock  has almost doubled. It closed
April 11 at a record $35.39, and on average  analysts  project it
will reach $36.50 within the next 12 months, estimates compiled
by Bloomberg show. The shares ended last week at $35.29.  The 53 biggest U.S.  health-care stocks  have advanced 20
percent so far this year, topping all other industries in the
S&P 500, as the U.S. awaits a potential influx of more than 30
million newly insured individuals under President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law. CareFusion’s gains also come as it begins the
next phase of its turnaround, which has included shedding some
units, making purchases and improving its operating  margin .  ‘Enviable Position’  “Today you’ve got a company where most of the heavy
lifting is done,” Gene Mannheimer, a San Diego-based analyst at
B. Riley, said in a phone interview. “It has market-leading
assets. They’re No. 1 or No. 2 in every business that they’re in
now. That is an enviable position to be in if you’re an acquirer
and appealing from a private-equity standpoint.”  After three consecutive years of declines, CareFusion’s
revenue increased last year to $3.6 billion, and the company is
projected to add $184 million in sales by the end of the next
fiscal year in June 2014, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. It earned about 19 cents in operating income for each
dollar of sales last quarter, making it the most profitable
period since the spinoff, the data show. In the same period two
years ago, CareFusion’s operating margin was less than 16
percent.  “As investors are getting more interested in medical
technology stocks, this one stands out as a company that has a
fair amount of operating margin expansion,” BMO’s Wuensch said.  Still Cheap  CareFusion shares are still relatively cheap versus its
earnings and cash flow. At 8.6 times trailing 12-month earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, its
 valuation  trails 87 percent of U.S.  medical equipment and device
stocks  that have market values exceeding $1 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Its price-to-free cash flow multiple
of 12.7 is a 37 percent discount to the industry median, the
data show.  A private-equity suitor could seek to unlock some of that
value by purchasing the company and breaking it apart, said B.
Riley’s Mannheimer. While CareFusion currently reports two
segments, it could be divided into four, he said.  One unit could be infection prevention, which includes its
ChloraPrep antiseptic that’s applied to a patient’s skin prior
to surgery, according to Mannheimer. The other three could be
infusion pumps, respiratory products such as ventilators, and
medication dispensing, which uses barcodes to help hospitals
avoid giving patients the wrong drug, he said.  “There are some very discrete components of CareFusion
that could be broken out, and private equity may be interested
in one or more of those,” Mannheimer said.  Combination Opportunity  Another option would be for a financial buyer to combine
CareFusion with another provider of hospital equipment such as
 Hill-Rom Holdings Inc. (HRC)  While neither company has shown any
interest in merging, CareFusion and Hill-Rom, a maker of
hospital beds, sell to many of the same customers and are
focused on addressing similar hospital needs, according to Matt Miksic, a New York-based analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. Given
each company’s cash flow and capital structures, they could be
logical targets for a private-equity suitor, he said.  Hill-Rom, which has a market capitalization of $2.2
billion, has just $242 million of  net debt  and generated $189
million in  cash from operations  after deducting capital expenses
in the last 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Both are focused on many of the same needs and wants” of
hospitals and patients, Miksic said in a phone interview. If a
private-equity firm wanted to “roll up the assets in a category
and roll them back out as a larger asset, that’s certainly
something that would make sense here. Strategically, they would
line up pretty nicely. They both have these great franchises,
throw off a lot of cash and screen well for an LBO-type model.”  Tough Sell  It may be a tough sell to current management though, he
said. Hill-Rom Chief Executive Officer John Greisch has
indicated that infusion pumps -- one of CareFusion’s main
businesses -- isn’t an area he’s interested in. Likewise, as
CareFusion seeks to drive better growth over the next few years,
management may be reluctant to take on the slower-growing
hospital-bed franchise, Miksic said.  Larry Baumann, a spokesman at Batesville, Indiana-based
Hill-Rom, declined to comment on whether it has considered
combining with CareFusion or received interest from buyers.  Past acquisitions suggest CareFusion could command a higher
Ebitda multiple than the 8.6 it currently trades for. Deals
valued at more than $1 billion involving makers of health-care
products were struck at a median 16.6 times Ebitda, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The average premium was 32 percent,
which when applied to CareFusion’s average price in the last 20
days implies a takeover offer of almost $46 a share, the data
show.  “Private equity would have an interesting time deciphering
these businesses and determining fair value,” B. Riley’s
Mannheimer said. “It would probably have a break-up value
that’s worth more than the whole.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  