-- Bird Flu to Dead Hogs Curb China’s Soybean-Import Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-15T04:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/china-s-soybean-imports-seen-declining-on-bird-flu-dead-hogs.html
An eight-year surge in soybean
imports by  China , the biggest buyer, may come to an end this
year as feed consumption drops following a bird-flu outbreak and
the discovery of thousands of dead pigs floating in a river.  Imports, which more than tripled from 2004 to 59.2 million
metric tons in the year to Sept. 30, will probably fall to 58
million tons this year, as consumers, wary of infectious
diseases, shun poultry and pork, according to the median of a
Bloomberg survey of four crushers and three analysts in China.
Feed is mostly made with soybean meal and corn.  China’s 60 cases of H7N9 flu virus infections and 13 deaths
are raising the specter of the 2003 global pandemic of severe
acute respiratory syndrome that killed 774 people. Imports of
soybeans plunged 21 percent in the 2003-2004 marketing year and
an outbreak of H5N1 virus in 2006 also led to the slowest growth
in shipments since the SARS outbreak.  “We believe this new avian flu will cut at least 500,000
tons of soybean-meal demand in the immediate future,” said Liu
Xianwu, general manager at researcher China Cereals & Oils
Business Net. “Soybeans will come down because at the current
level, Chinese crushers don’t make money,” he said April 12.  Soybeans may drop to $13 a bushel in the next month,
according to Beijing-based China Cereals. The May-delivery
contract on the Chicago Board of Trade delivery fell 0.6 percent
to $13.7075 a bushel at 12:31 p.m. in Beijing. Meal on the
 Dalian Commodity Exchange  dropped 1.5 percent to 3,110  yuan 
($503) a ton, near the lowest level in 13 months. It has lost
7.1 percent since March, when the outbreak was first reported.  Husbandry ‘Disasters’  “Disasters are hitting the animal husbandry one wave after
another,” as even before the bird flu, consumers were leery of
eating pork from the effect of the dead hogs incident in
Shanghai, said Monica Tu, soybean analyst at Shanghai JC
Intelligence Co. “It’s looking more likely we’ll have to keep
cutting projection for this year’s imports,” she said.  Yum! Brands, Inc. said in a statement this week that the
avian flu in China has had a “significant, negative impact on
KFC sales.” Xiamen Airlines Co. has suspended serving chicken
and duck because of passenger concerns.  Livestock and poultry producers are cutting inventories of
feed as consumption of poultry, eggs and pork slumped, state-
owned researcher grain.gov.cn, a unit of the China National
Grain & Oils Information Center, said today adding that prices
of corn have weakened across the country.  Egg Futures  The Dalian exchange today said an egg-futures trading
system, which passed a test last week, is still under regulatory
review. The contracts were set up to deal with outbreaks such as
bird flu by placing delivery points in major producing and
consuming regions and by allowing deliveries to be taken in
uninfected regions, the statement cited an unidentified market
participant as saying.  Authorities in  Shanghai  retrieved 11,040 dead pigs from
Shanghai’s Huangpu river last month, with thousands more found
in neighboring Zhejiang province. The environmental scare helped
reduce the price of live hogs to the lowest in almost three
years, causing “large losses” to the nation’s animal husbandry
sector, Liu Yonghao, chairman of New Hope Liuhe Co., China’s
biggest poultry supplier, said in Beijing on April 9.  The average price of live hogs traded in northern Shandong
province declined to 12.20 yuan a kilogram on April 12, the
lowest since July 2010, according to Shanghai JC  data .  China used 45.2 million tons of soybean meal to feed
animals in 2011-2012, according to Shanghai JC’s Tu. Hogs
account for about half of the feed consumption, while the
poultry and eggs sector took 40 percent, Tu said.  Total soybean imports in the first six months of the 2012-
2013 marketing year fell 9.2 percent to 25.6 million tons,
partly because of reduced output from the U.S. and a shipping
bottleneck in  Brazil , according to Liu of China Cereals.  While reduced imports have caused a shortage in the
domestic market, crushers may be less willing to boost purchases
for the remaining months given the falling demand, Liu said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  