-- Citigroup Sees Europe Lenders Lagging U.S. Amid Jain Concern
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-04-15T12:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/citigroup-europe-ceo-sees-u-s-universal-banks-gaining-share.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s European chief,
Jim Cowles, said so-called U.S. universal banks like his own are
gaining market share in  investment banking  because they can
absorb the rising cost of regulation better than European peers.  The third-largest  U.S. bank  is planning to hire “several”
senior investment bankers in Europe, Cowles said in an interview
in London. U.S.-based universal banks, which combine investment,
consumer and retail banking, took “harder” decisions than
European lenders when they recapitalized after the financial
crisis more than four years ago, he said.  “There are only a handful of banks that have the size and
scope to deal with the growing regulatory demands,” said
Cowles, 57. “The result is likely to be consolidation of market
share in the investment-banking business.”  Cowles’s view that U.S. firms may surpass European rivals
was echoed by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive Officers
Juergen Fitschen and Anshu Jain, who cited regulatory burdens as
a threat in the German lender’s annual report. Investment banks
in Europe will also see their profitability reduced by taxes and
compensation restrictions, Morgan Stanley and  Oliver Wyman  said
in a report.  Citigroup, based in New York, today said first-quarter
profit rose 30 percent as revenue from fixed-income trading and
investment banking exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Cowles’s support for the universal bank model contrasts
with criticisms such as that of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analyst
 Kian Abouhossein , who said last week that top-tier investment
banks are “uninvestable” and may be spun off by parent
companies due to their regulatory burdens.  Jain Concern  “Many of the European banks haven’t made the hard
decisions yet,” Cowles said. “Going back four or five years,
the U.S. banks made faster and harder decisions in terms of
recapitalizing. The U.S. banks are therefore in position to gain
market share in the next couple of years.”  Cowles said some universal banks may retreat to their home
markets, while retaining a combination of consumer and
commercial banking as well as securities businesses.  “We remain concerned regarding regulation which challenges
the universal banking model, or which distorts the global
regulatory ‘level playing field’ in a way that disadvantages
European banks,” Deutsche Bank’s Fitschen and Jain wrote in an
introduction to the annual report published today.  Corbat Overhaul  In Britain, banks are likely to shore up their capital by
selling so-called contingent capital securities, Citigroup
analysts led by Andrew Coombs and Ronit Ghose wrote in a note to
clients today. Such securities convert to equity or are written
off once an issuer’s capital ratios fall below a pre-set level.
The analysts rate  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest lender,
as a “most preferred” stock.  Citigroup received the biggest bailout from U.S. taxpayers
of any lender, including a $45 billion capital injection and a
government guarantee of more than $300 billion of its riskiest
assets. The bank lost $29.3 billion in 2008 and 2009 combined.
It has since repaid its bailout funds.  Citigroup CEO  Michael Corbat  overhauled the firm’s
operations outside the U.S. in January, naming Cowles his
successor as head of Europe, the Middle East and  Africa . In
February, the firm hired former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  banker
Luigi de Vecchi for the newly created role of chairman of
continental Europe for corporate and investment banking.  Senior Hires  “We’re looking to make several more very senior, impact-
level managing director hires in investment banking to
strengthen both our geographic and industry capabilities,”
Cowles said.  The bank isn’t planning to exit the 54 countries in which
it operates across Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa, Cowles
added. Citigroup employs about 35,000 people in the so-called
EMEA region.  Corbat had said on March 5 that the lender could exit or
pull back from businesses in 21 countries that are among its
least efficient markets, without specifying them. The bank said
on April 11 it would sell its consumer-banking unit in Turkey to
OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, as it withdraws or scales
back operations in some  emerging markets .  The banking industry will continue to cut costs and jobs as
it adapts to less activity, Cowles said. Financial services
firms have announced 900,000 job cuts since 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “As an industry, we are not through,” Cowles said. “We
still have further to go as banks refocus.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  