-- Early Treatment of H7N9 Bird Flu May Be Effective, WHO Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-14T04:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/early-treatment-of-h7n9-bird-flu-may-be-effective-who-says.html
Michael O’Leary, the World Health
Organization’s China representative, comments on H7N9 avian
influenza. O’Leary spoke to reporters in Beijing today.  Henan province in central China today confirmed two cases
of the virus, raising the number of people infected to 51.
Beijing reported its first case yesterday -- a 7-year-old girl
who is recovering in hospital.  On early treatment of infections:  “We feel that early treatment with proper anti-viral drugs
can be an effective way to proceed, and we see that now perhaps
with this girl in Beijing.  “She was under treatment early and in a stable condition,
so early treatment is always important in these situations.  “We know also that the virus when untreated is very
serious and many people are in critical situation and quite a
number have died, so we advocate for early treatment and good
medical care.”  On the source of H7N9:  “The source of infections remains under active
investigation. There’s no way to predict how this will spread.
We’re still looking intensively for the reservoir of infection
but the suspicion remains in birds, chicken, ducks and poultry.  “The virus has been detected now in a few dozen chickens,
pigeons and other birds. Migrant birds are certainly possible,
that’s the agriculture side of the investigation. We know H7N9
has been found in wild birds before this ever started.  “The good news is we have no evidence of sustained human-
to-human transmission. That’s a key factor in this situation. As
far as we know all the cases are individually infected in a
sporadic and in a not connected way.  “It’s not unexpected to have a case in Beijing. We’ve been
expecting new cases to occur and they’ve been occurring in new
places.  “We can expect more cases.”  On the possibility of human-to-human transmission:  “What we need to do in each case is investigate very
carefully. The difference for sustained human-to-human
transmission is when the virus has changed in a way that allows
that to happen and so far we have not seen that. It doesn’t mean
that cannot be an individual case for that to happen where it
might transmit from one person to another.  “But in cases where there might be two people in close
proximity who both have the disease it’s also difficult to
determine whether that’s because of human-to human, or because
they were both exposed to the same source, for instance,
chickens. That’s not so easy to sort out.”  On whether culling should be undertaken:  “If we can determine that the poultry are major sources of
the infection to people then culling is one of the measures that
can be undertaken. But this is a complex situation because the
virus does not appear to be very lethal or even serious in
animal populations so it’s more difficult to detect.”  On China’s disclosure of information:  “We’ve been getting excellent information in a timely way
from the China government.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net  or
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  