-- Lehman International Creditors May Be Repaid in Full, PwC Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-04-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/lehman-international-creditors-may-be-repaid-in-full-pwc-says.html
Creditors to Lehman Brothers
International Europe may be repaid in full after administrators
settled disputes with some of the failed investment bank’s
affiliates, increasing the size of expected future recoveries.  A recent agreement with a Lehman affiliate has freed up an
additional $9.1 billion of assets, which will be distributed
later this year, according to an e-mailed statement from
PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP. LBIE is planning a second dividend
to unsecured creditors, as well as a first distribution to
client money claimants this month.  “To be able to advise ordinary unsecured creditors that we
now have a reasonable chance of eventually repaying their claims
in full, marks a significant milestone,” Tony Lomas, lead
administrator at PwC, said in the statement. “We do expect to
pay a second, significant dividend to creditors in the near
future, taking us another step towards this new target.”  The administrators have already returned 13.6 billion
pounds ($20.9 billion) in cash and securities to clients with
funds deposited at the defunct brokerage, PwC said in the
statement. Lehman International made its first interim
distribution to unsecured creditors in November, paying 25.2
pence on the pound, or about 7 billion pounds, for 1,582 claims,
PwC said at the time.  Lehman failed in September 2008, filing the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history, because of too much debt and risky
real estate investments, according to an examiner’s report. The
former bank is still liquidating and trying to cut claims more
than four years after its collapse.  Claims on Affiliates  Lehman’s claims on affiliates, and amounts owed to them,
are among its largest single class of claims. Last year it said
it was owed $45.2 billion by affiliates, including its defunct
brokerage Lehman Brothers Inc. and Swiss affiliate Lehman
Brothers Finance AG, both of which it has settled this year.  The estate of LBIE is preparing to make an initial $340
million payment to its clients, equivalent to 20 cents on the
dollar of $1.7 billion of claims held in a central client pool,
the Sunday Telegraph said yesterday citing an administrator
report. Unsecured creditors will receive at least 2.8 billion
pounds over three payments this year, equivalent to more than 10
pence on the pound of claims, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  