-- Emaar Offers Dubai Homes at Discount as Sale Yields Long Lines
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-04-14T09:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/emaar-offers-dubai-homes-at-discount-as-sale-yields-long-lines.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  sold more
than 188 homes at a project to be built in Dubai amid long lines
of potential customers after the developer offered properties at
almost half the price of homes in nearby neighborhoods.  The developer of the world’s tallest tower offered the
townhouses for about 550 dirhams ($150) a square foot, said Rami
Abi Faraj, a manager at Dubai-based broker Better Homes.
Properties in Arabian Ranches, near where the townhouses will be
built, are selling at more than 1,000 dirhams a square foot, he
said. Emaar didn’t immediately respond to questions about prices
at Mira, where homes will be ready for occupation in 2016.  “These were amazing homes at very good pricing,” said Abi
Faraj, who attended the start of sales yesterday. “They are
affordable pricewise but very beautiful, and Emaar could be
offering those prices to start the project.”  The scenes of long lines at Emaar’s sales center were
reminiscent of those rampant in Dubai before the property crash
in 2008 wiped 65 percent off home values as speculative demand
dried up. About 40,000 homes are scheduled for completion in
Dubai over the next two years, or 11 percent of existing supply,
Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. said in a report today.  This year, 28,000 homes are expected to hit the market
including 29 Boulevard towers in Downtown, Balqis Residencies on
The Palm, the Centrium Project in IPMZ as well as Silicon Gate
in Dubai Silicon Oasis.  Away From Center  “Most of the upcoming residential supply will be located
outside of central Dubai in areas to the south and east of the
city,” Jones Lang LaSalle said. The largest proportion of
future stock from 2013 to 2015 will be delivered in Dubailand,
Business Bay and Dubai Sports City, according to the report.  Local media reported that police were called to control the
crowd after Emaar offered the Mira homes on a first-come, first-
served basis. Some brokers and investors paid construction
workers to camp in the queue 48 hours before the sale.  Mira is the first phase of a development known as  Reem ,
which is to include schools, shops, parks, a cinema and an
amphitheater among its attractions, according to the developer.  Emaar informed buyers who had arrived early that the sales
would commence on Saturday morning and it had to delay the start
due to the crowds, the developer said in an e-mailed statement
today. “We worked with the concerned authorities to manage the
crowd, and we regret the inconvenience caused to investors due
to the unprecedented rush.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  