-- Thermo Life Technology Bid Said to Exceed $75 Per Share
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-04-15T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/thermo-fisher-said-in-exclusive-talks-for-life-technologies-1-.html
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO)  is
the leading bidder for  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , having won
exclusive negotiating rights over the weekend with a bid for
more than $75 a share, said two people familiar with the matter.  Life was trying to finish a deal to announce before the
market opens in  New York  today, and the people said there is no
guarantee an agreement will be reached. Thermo Fisher’s all-cash
bid gives Life a value of at least $12.8 billion. Life had
sought final bids by April 12, said the people, asking not to be
named because the process is private.  Life, a maker of DNA-sequencing equipment whose market
value exceeds $11 billion, has been reviewing its options for at
least three months, using Deutsche Bank AG and Moelis & Co. as
advisers. Carlsbad, California-based Life’s  shares  have gained
24 percent since Jan. 17, the day before it publicly disclosed
the strategic review.  Earlier offers valuing Life at as much as $11.8 billion
were received from Waltham, Massachusetts-based  Thermo Fisher ,
the second-biggest maker of life-sciences equipment by market
value, and a private equity consortium led by  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , according to people familiar with the matter. Agilent
Technologies Inc. is the largest life-sciences equipment maker.  The Blackstone consortium wasn’t prepared to pay $70 a
share or more, the people said yesterday. Blackstone’s  group 
included Carlyle Group LP, KKR & Co. and  Singapore ’s Temasek
Holdings Pte., people had said. The consortium had an initial
bid of about $65 a share and was waiting to see how the other
bidders fared before increasing its offer.  Sigma-Aldrich Interest  A bid of about $75 a share would be 10 percent more than
Life’s closing price of $68 on April 12. Suzanne Hatcher, a
spokeswoman for Life, and Ron O’Brien, a spokesman for Thermo
Fisher, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  St. Louis-based Sigma-Aldrich Corp. also expressed interest
in Life, two people familiar with the matter said. If a deal is
not done with Thermo Fisher, Sigma-Aldrich may enter discussions
to buy Life, one of the people said.  The investment probably will pay off for Paulson & Co.,
Life’s second largest  shareholder  as of Dec. 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. If the company is sold at more than
$75 a share, Paulson will make close to $400 million on its
investment this year, said a person familiar with the matter.
The institutional investment firm bought most of its shares at
less than $50 a share, the person said.  Life’s products can be used to provide a blueprint of a
person’s DNA, generating information that may eventually be used
to diagnose disease, identify the risks of certain conditions or
better target medicines. Life also sells products that
scientists use in labs for cancer and stem-cell research.  Sales for Life have increased by just about 5 percent on
average in each of the past three years, compared with a 20
percent gain at San Diego-based  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ; 