-- Europe Braces for Verdict on Climate Chief’s Carbon Plan
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-04-15T14:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/europe-braces-for-verdict-on-climate-chief-s-carbon-plan.html
The European Union’s 54 billion-
euro ($71 billion) carbon emissions cap-and-trade system may be
undermined if the bloc’s Parliament votes against Climate
Commissioner Connie Hedegaard’s temporary rescue plan tomorrow.  The strategy, known as backloading, would delay the issuing
of some new permits under the EU emissions trading system, or
ETS, which imposes pollution limits on about 12,000 power plants
and factories across the region. The euro area’s recession has
cut demand, exacerbating a glut that drove prices in the world’s
biggest greenhouse-gas market to a record low in January.  Hedegaard says the low cost of the allowances erodes the
incentive for polluters to invest in climate protection
technology. Opponents including the government of  Poland , which
is Europe’s third-biggest carbon emitter, and  BASF SE (BAS) , the
world’s largest chemicals maker, say the plan will raise energy
costs, manipulate prices and undermine investors’ confidence.  “It’s possible to be serious about climate and the
environment and not harm your economy,” Hedegaard said in a
March 27 interview in Brussels. “I would have told you half a
year ago backloading is a no-brainer, everybody will understand
that you can’t continue to overflood a market that is already
overflooded. Now this has become extremely political.”  Hedegaard, 52, a former Danish TV journalist and the
Scandinavian country’s first climate minister, says her role is
to “think beyond the crisis.” She says backloading would be an
exceptional measure before  Europe  agrees on a longer-term
overhaul of its eight-year-old carbon market.  Parliament Divided  “If we only think for the short term, we’re not doing our
job,” said Hedegaard, who became one of the EU’s 27
commissioners in 2010. “Despite the economic crisis, there has
been the willingness to move forward and to take the climate
change challenge seriously.”  The European Commission’s emergency plan consists of a
change to emissions-trading law that the Parliament will vote on
tomorrow, and a separate measure detailing the backloading
process that will be decided later. Without approval from member
states and the assembly, which is split on the proposal, the
commission can’t tackle the glut of permits that swelled to
about 1 billion metric tons last year, or a half the average
annual pollution limit in the ETS.  Market Fate  The ETS is the bloc’s main tool in meeting greenhouse gas-
reduction targets, which it does by issuing companies with
tradable permits that they must surrender to cover their
emissions or pay a fine. While cap-and-trade programs are
gaining favor in countries including  Australia  and South Korea,
U.S. legislation for a market stalled in 2009 even with support
from President  Barack Obama .  The commission’s draft fix involves delaying the sale of
permits covering 900 million tons of emissions over the next
three years and reintroducing, or backloading, them to the
market in 2019 and 2020.  The outcome of the April 16 vote may determine the fate of
the ETS for the next several years, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  “That will be a test for the credibility of the
Parliament,” said Peter Liese, a German member of the European
People’s Party in the EU assembly. “Hedegaard did the best
possible job. She’s a good negotiator and a tough politician,
others would have failed much earlier as there’s a lot of
resistance against climate policies.”  Liese, part of a pro-backloading minority in the EPP, is
concerned the failure of the rescue plan may prompt the bloc’s
governments to start implementing their own climate measures,
marginalizing the common emissions market.  Bad Signals  A no vote will also send “a bad signal internationally”
as nations worldwide discuss global carbon-reduction goals for
after 2020, said Bryony Worthington, founder of climate lobby
Sandbag.  “Hedegaard has a very difficult job at the moment,”
Worthington said in an interview in Brussels. “She has to fight
quite hard, even among her own people, because the commission,
as usual, is split on climate ambition.”  Permits in the EU’s trading system slumped to a record-low
price of 2.81 euros a ton in January from an all-time high of 31
euros in April 2006 as a recession curbed demand for emission
rights.  A vote in favor of backloading may boost carbon prices to
as much as 8 euros a ton, Sabine Schels, an analyst at Bank of
America Corp. in  London , said in a research note dated April 9.
Allowances for delivery in December traded at 4.84 euros a ton
at 3:40 p.m. on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Buying Time  Investors need a sign of political confidence in the ETS,
or the market may be “completely undermined,” according to the
International Emissions Trading Association. Backloading is
needed to buy time before a deeper overhaul, which is unlikely
to happen within the next four to five years, said Sarah Deblock, a Brussels-based EU policy director at the lobby group.  A majority of the EPP party, the biggest political group in
the European Parliament, disagree with IETA. The EU is on course
to meet its emissions-reduction goal and market intervention
will hamper the economic recovery, EPP members Lena Kolarska- Bobinska, Alejo Vidal-Quadras, Amalia Sartori and Herbert Reul
said in a letter to Hedegaard on April 10.  “Backloading undermines the trust in the market when we
need investment certainty,” Wolfgang Weber, who oversees BASF’s
EU government relations in Brussels, said on April 9.  Serious Threat  Poland’s Environment Minister Marcin Korolec disagrees with
his counterparts in countries including  Germany  and the  U.K.
who say eight years of climate action will be lost without
backloading.  “What creates a serious threat for the existence of our
most cost-efficient climate-policy instrument is precisely
undermining its market character by political intervention
through backloading,” Korolec said by e-mail.  The controversy over the carbon market rescue plan
highlights the underlying problem of the EU emissions system,
which is the lack of flexibility and the complexity of the
decision-making process in the 27-nation bloc, according to
Paolo Coghe, an analyst at Societe Generale SA in Paris.  Europe’s pollution-reduction cap for 2013-2020 was set
before the economic crisis and stepping it up would require a
legislative process that usually takes at least two years. Its
carbon market doesn’t have a price floor or ceiling.  “It’s not about the price just being set at 5 euros or 50
euros,” Coghe said. “It’s obvious that if the price is 50
euros people will think twice before they burn coal instead of
gas and this will provide the drive to achieve long-term policy
objectives.”  Hedegaard, who became the youngest member of the Danish
parliament in 1984, believes that climate-friendly policies will
create new jobs and help cut the EU’s fuel bill by encouraging
companies to invest in clean technologies.  “There will be different situations in different member
states,” she said. “You can’t have a one-size-fits all. But I
think we can do what we also did in the last climate and energy
package, you can try to have different effort-sharing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  