-- Fayyad Resignation Raises Aid Risks for Palestinian Economy
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2013-04-15T08:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/fayyad-resignation-compounds-uncertainty-for-palestinian-economy.html
The resignation of Palestinian
Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, whose commitment to transparency
reassured donor nations, may make it tougher for the Palestinian
Authority to raise the foreign aid it needs to survive.  Fayyad, 62, quit in an April 13 meeting with President
Mahmoud Abbas that capped months of tension between the two
leaders. He agreed to remain in the post until a replacement is
named, Abbas said in a statement.  The Palestine Liberation Organization’s Executive Committee
called a meeting for April 18 to discuss Fayyad’s resignation
and the possibility that Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas may
form a new government, committee member Wassel Abu Yousef said
by phone.  The U.S.-trained economist called an end to his six-year
stint as prime minister just days after meeting for the third
time in a month with Secretary of State John Kerry, who is
trying to resurrect Middle East peace talks with a new aid
package to bolster the Palestinian economy. Saying Fayyad “made
a huge difference,” Kerry expressed disappointment with the
resignation while suggesting Fayyad may not be leaving so soon.  “He’s sick, tired, he’s been at this for seven years,”
Kerry told reporters yesterday in  Tokyo . “There will be a
caretaker process for a period of time” and “he is not going
to go away from Palestinian politics completely.”  Situation Unsustainable  The Palestine Stock Exchange’s al-Quds Index dropped 0.2
percent to 453.76 at 10:50 a.m. The benchmark has slumped about
5 percent since President Barack Obama visited Ramallah and said
the Palestinians would need to compromise to reach a peace deal
with Israel. The Tel Aviv Stock Exchange in Israel rose 0.2
percent yesterday to 1230.35.  The International Monetary Fund, where Fayyad worked for 14
years in  Washington  and the West Bank, said in March that the
Palestinian Authority’s ability to govern was being eroded by
its financial difficulties. Fayyad warned repeatedly that the
situation is unsustainable.  Abbas appointed Fayyad as prime minister in 2007 after he
served five years as finance minister. After long arguing that
 Israel  must ease restrictions on the movement of Palestinian
people and goods in the West Bank to strengthen the economy,
Fayyad presented a plan in 2009 to build governing institutions
aimed at ensuring the future stability of a Palestinian state.  Donors Reassured  He won the trust of lenders, the U.S. and Israel because of
his campaign to make the Palestinian Authority’s finances
transparent. His IMF experience provided credibility in
negotiations that led to billions of dollars in donations for
the Palestinian Authority. Donor funds make up almost one-third
of the authority’s 2013 budget.  “Fayyad was trusted because he understood finance, he
believed in transparency and his presence reassured
international donors that the flow of money would go to
legitimate purposes,” Mukhemer Abu Sada, a political scientist
at Al-Azhar University in Gaza City, said in a phone interview.  “It’s going to be very difficult to find anybody to
replace him who has the level of credibility that Fayyad had
with the international community,” Abu Sada said.  Among possible successors with the kind of experience in
international finance that could win the trust of investors are
Mohammed Mustafa, a U.S.-educated adviser to Abbas who worked at
the  World Bank (BOWEMBA)  for 15 years and was founder and chief executive
of the Palestine Telecommunications Co., Abu Sada said.  Security Force  Another possible contender, he said, would be Jihad al Wazir, governor of the Palestine Monetary Authority, a former
acting finance minister and the son of Khalil Abu Wazir, who was
assassinated in 1988 when he was top deputy to longtime
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.  As prime minister, Fayyad also oversaw the formation of a
U.S.-trained security force that brought law and order to the
West Bank and worked in coordination with Israel to prevent
militant attacks.  Throughout his tenure, Fayyad had clashed with Abbas over
the extent of the premier’s authority, most recently after he
accepted the finance minister’s resignation, over the
president’s objections. He also opposed Abbas’s attempts to
reunite his government with the Hamas-led administration in the
Gaza Strip. Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by the
U.S. and European Union.  Reconciliation Efforts  Fayyad, a political independent, was not part of Abbas’s
ruling Fatah party and often had conflicts with it. Amin
Maqboul, secretary-general of the Fatah Revolutionary Council,
said the party “feels comfortable with Fayyad’s resignation.”  “He failed to manage the economic crises and put the
Palestinian Authority in debts of $1.5 billion dollars and was
not able to provide salaries on time,” Maqboul said.  Hamas said Fayyad’s departure wasn’t related to
reconciliation efforts between the Palestinian movements or
internal divisions.  Fayyad steps down at a tough time for the fragile
Palestinian economy, World Bank statistics show.  Without foreign aid, Abbas’s government would face a budget
deficit of more than 7 percent of GDP at a time when government
borrowing from local banks is according to the World Bank “at
the limit that the banking sector can sustain.” Foreign aid
accounts for about 14 percent of GDP, while  public sector jobs 
account for 22 percent of total employment, according to the
World Bank.  The West Bank and Gaza’s $10 billion GDP expanded about 5
percent in 2011, down from an average of about 9 percent from
2008 to 2010, according to the International Monetary Fund.
Unemployment rose to 19 percent in the first half of 2012 from
16 percent in the previous year, the IMF said.  Cash Crisis  The Palestinian Authority was in the throes of a cash
crisis in recent months because U.S. and Arab countries that
help to fund its budget had not delivered all promised aid. That
forced government workers to subsist on partial and overdue
salaries.  Exacerbating the problem was an arrangement whereby Israel
collects tens of millions of dollars a month in customs, border
and income taxes on behalf of Palestinians who work and do
business in Israel, and transfers them to the Palestinians.
Israel withheld the transfers twice in recent months after the
Palestinians sought UN backing as a state.  U.S. Aid  Fayyad took loans to cover some of the shortfall, though
protests broke out in 2012 because of his inability to pay
salaries in full and on time, and over planned tax increases
that the demonstrations forced him to cancel. The Palestinian
Authority is the West Bank’s largest employer, with some 150,000
civil servants and security personnel on its payroll.  The U.S. has relieved some of the pressure on the
Palestinian Authority’s finances, announcing the delivery of
about $500 million in withheld aid around the time of President
 Barack Obama ’s visit to the region last month. Israel has
resumed the transfers.  Kerry, in his latest visit to the region last week, spoke
of the need for Israel and the Palestinians to work together to
improve the Palestinian economy. The U.S. secretary of state is
scheduled to meet in Washington today with former British Prime
Minister Tony Blair, representative of the so-called Quartet of
international Middle East peace mediators, to discuss the
Palestinian aid package.  “We’re totally committed to moving forward with the
economic thing, no matter what,” Kerry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  