-- Fayyad Quits as Palestinian Premier After Fiscal Warnings
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2013-04-14T12:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/fayyad-quits-as-palestinian-premier-after-fiscal-crisis-warning.html
Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad resigned yesterday after repeatedly warning of the
government’s precarious finances, a move that could complicate
new U.S. efforts to revive peace talks.  Fayyad, 62, who sought to create a stable foundation for an
independent Palestinian state, will continue in his post until
President Mahmoud Abbas, with whom he has been sparring for
years, assembles a new Cabinet. The International Monetary Fund
said in March that the Palestinian Authority’s ability to govern
was being eroded by its financial difficulties, while Fayyad has
said the situation is unsustainable.  The departure of Fayyad, a former IMF economist, comes a
week after he met with U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry, who
said he’s seeking a “quiet strategy” to resuscitate peace
negotiations between the Palestinians and  Israel .  “With Abbas being busy in having to form a new government
and working to overcome the budget crisis, he may not have that
much time for the peace process that the U.S. is trying to
restart,” said Menachem Klein, a professor of political science
at Bar Ilan University and a former adviser to the Israeli
government on peace talks.  Palestinian State-Building  British Foreign Secretary William Hague praised Fayyad’s
“outstanding contribution to Palestinian state-building” and
said his resignation was “a reminder of the urgency of
returning to negotiations on a two-state solution.”  Abbas appointed Fayyad as prime minister in 2007 after a
five-year stint as finance minister. After arguing that Israel
must ease restrictions on the movement of Palestinian people and
goods in the West Bank to strengthen the economy, Fayyad
presented a plan in 2009 to build governing institutions aimed
at ensuring the future stability of a Palestinian state.  Fayyad won the trust of lenders, the U.S. and Israel
because of his campaign to make the Palestinian Authority’s
finances transparent. His IMF experience provided credibility in
negotiations that led to billions of dollars in donations for
the Palestinian Authority.  “Fayyad was trusted because he understood finance, he
believed in transparency and his presence reassured
international donors that the flow of money would go to
legitimate purposes,” Mukhemer Abu Sada, a political scientist
at Al-Azhar University in Gaza City, said in a phone interview.  “It’s going to be very difficult to find anybody to
replace him who has the level of credibility that Fayyad had
with the international community,” Abu Sada said.  An opponent of violence, Fayyad also oversaw the formation
of a U.S.-trained security force that brought law and order to
the West Bank and worked in coordination with Israel to prevent
militant attacks.  Clashed With Abbas  Throughout his tenure, Fayyad had clashed with Abbas over
the extent of the premier’s authority, most recently after he
accepted the finance minister’s resignation, over the
president’s objections. He also opposed Abbas’ attempts to
reunite his government with the dueling regime in the Gaza
Strip, which is run by the militant Hamas movement that’s
considered a terror organization by the U.S. and European Union.  It’s not clear how quickly Fayyad will be gone, because he
will stay on until a new Cabinet is formed, said Khalil Shaheen,
director of the Masarat Center for Policy Research in Ramallah.  “There was a lot of tension with Abbas, but Fayyad’s
resignation actually preserves the status quo,” Shaheen said.
“This could go on for a week, a month or even two years.”  Reconciliation Efforts  Hamas said Fayyad’s departure wasn’t related to
reconciliation efforts between the Palestinian movements or
internal divisions.  Fayyad steps down at a tough time for the fragile
Palestinian economy,  World Bank (BOWEMBA)  statistics show.  The economy has become less competitive as agricultural
productivity has been cut in half and manufacturing stagnates,
the World Bank said in a report that found that Israeli
restrictions restrain growth. The share of exports in the
economy dropped to 7 percent in 2011, among the lowest in world.  Without foreign aid, Abbas’s government would face a budget
deficit of more than 7 percent of GDP at a time when government
borrowing from local banks is according to the World Bank “at
the limit that the banking sector can sustain.” Foreign aid
accounts for about 14 percent of GDP, while the share of  public
sector jobs  accounts for 22 percent of total  employment,
according to the World Bank.  Economic Outlook  The West Bank and Gaza’s $10 billion GDP expanded about 5
percent in 2011, down from an average of about 9 percent from
2008 to 2010, according to the International Monetary Fund.
Unemployment rose to 19 percent in the first half of 2012 from
16 percent in the previous year, the IMF said.  The Palestinian Authority was in the throes of a cash
crisis in recent months because U.S. and Arab countries that
help to fund its budget had not delivered all promised aid. That
forced government workers to subsist on partial and overdue
salaries.  Exacerbating the problem was an arrangement whereby Israel
collects tens of millions of dollars a month in customs, border
and income taxes on behalf of Palestinians who work and do
business in Israel and transfers them to the Palestinians.
Israel withheld the transfers twice in recent months after the
Palestinians sought UN backing for a unilateral statehood bid.  Fayyad took loans to cover some of the shortfall, though
protests broke out in 2012 because of his inability to pay
salaries in full and on time, and over planned tax increases
that the demonstrations forced him to cancel. The Palestinian
Authority is the West Bank’s largest employer, with some 150,000
civil servants and security personnel on its payroll.  The U.S. has relieved some pressure on the Palestinian
Authority’s finances, announcing the delivery of about $500
million in aid about the time of President  Barack Obama ’s visit
to the region last month. Israel has resumed the transfers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Bethlehem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  