-- Stockman KO’s Krugman in Big Fed Brawl
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-04-14T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/fed-is-the-villain-in-krugman-stockman-brawl.html
Because I don’t have -- and have no
prayer of ever having -- a Nobel Memorial Prize in economics,
this statement is tantamount to blasphemy: Paul Krugman, the
Nobel-winning economist and  New York  Times columnist, is wrong.
At least when it comes to denigrating David Stockman’s cogent
argument that the U.S. Federal Reserve is fomenting economic
trouble.  Stockman, of course, is the former wunderkind congressman
and budget director under Ronald Reagan, whose mammoth new book,
“The Great Deformation: The Corruption of Capitalism in
America,” is highly critical of the Fed’s role in managing our
economy and has set Krugman off on a tear (and the book up the
best-sellers’ list).  On the April 5 “Charlie Rose,” Stockman, who also was a
partner at the  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and had his own
(unsuccessful) private equity firm, succinctly posited one
aspect of his argument.  “The Federal Reserve has basically become a bubble
machine,” he said. “There has been fabulous expansion of the
Fed’s balance sheet since the crisis of 2008. And almost all of
that new money created -- $1.7 trillion -- is simply circulated
through the banking system, through the fingers of Wall Street,
so to speak, and is back on the Fed’s balance sheet.”  Crushing Savers  Why is this so bad? “What it does is allow people to
speculate and hit home runs,” he explained. “It doesn’t go to
Main Street. It’s not helping the Main Street economy. And it’s
crushing savers. Remember, if you are saving, if you saved your
whole life and you have $100,000, you’re making $400 [a year] as
a result of the Fed crushing short-term interest rates.”  Stockman is exactly right. The Fed’s “quantitative easing”
policies -- which some Fed governors have begun to question,
according to the  minutes  of the mid-March Fed meeting -- have
been an unqualified boon to Wall Street. Not only has QE been a
gift to traders -- they can trade freely on the Fed’s promise to
keep interest rates low for the foreseeable future, and who have
found a willing buyer in the Fed, at market prices, for
squirrelly mortgage-backed and other complex debt securities --
but the Fed’s low short-term interest rate policy has allowed
the money-center banks with access to the Fed’s discount window
to back up the truck and get as much short-term funding as they
need at virtually no cost.  Then, as Stockman notes correctly, banks pay virtually
nothing to depositors for the use of their money, and they turn
around and lend out those deposits at wide spreads. It all adds
up to an industry that pays close to nothing for its raw
material -- cash -- and has the Fed’s blessing to rake in the
profits. In 2012, despite losing $6.2 billion in the London
Whale debacle, JPMorgan Chase and Co. still earned $21.3 billion
in profits, its best year ever.  Stockman blames Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke for the state
of things. “Bernanke is the single most dangerous man ever to
occupy high office in U.S. history,” Stockman told Rose. “It is
terrible what the Fed is doing.”  It’s hard to know for sure why Krugman has it out for
Stockman, but he took out his dagger after Stockman’s  dystopic
essay , “Sundown in America,” appeared in the Times on March 31,
warning against the Fed’s dangerous policies.  “I was disappointed in Stockman’s piece,” Krugman wrote
later that day on his Times blog. “I thought there would be some
kind of real argument, some presentation, however tendentious,
of evidence. Instead it’s just a series of gee-whiz, context-
and model-free numbers embedded in a rant -- and not even an
interesting rant. It’s cranky old man stuff, the kind of thing
you get from people who read Investors Business Daily, listen to
Rush Limbaugh, and maybe, if they’re unusually teched up, get
investment advice from Zero Hedge. Sad.”  Facing Off  On Rose’s show, Stockman said he knew Krugman when he was a
young man working on Reagan’s White House staff. “He seemed to
be like a pretty pleasant, astute guy,” Stockman said.
“Something went wrong over the last 30 years. Maybe it is that
aging doesn’t suit some people well.”  The two men faced off live April 7 on ABC’s “This Week.”
“Zero interest rates are basically crucifying the savers of
America on a cross of ZIRP as I call it,” Stockman said,
referring to zero-interest-rate policy. “All this money is not
getting out of the canyons of Wall Street. It’s going into Wall
Street [and then] right back to the, as excess reserves on the
balance sheet of the Fed. It allows speculators to borrow money
for nothing overnight. And we get bubble, after bubble, after
bubble.”  Krugman’s weak-kneed response was to ask Stockman,
rhetorically, “You really think we should be raising interest
rates with high unemployment?” He then went on to lecture: “We
have this overly complex financial system which is why we need
financial regulation to bring it back to simplicity. But it has
nothing to do with excess. It has nothing to do with zero
interest rates.”  I don’t know which is sadder: That the Fed’s low interest-
rate, easy-money policies are literally creating the next
financial bubble right in front of our eyes, or that Krugman,
supposedly one of our greatest economic minds, can’t see it,
even though the very same thing happened just eight years ago
and led to the Great Recession of 2008. Either way, I agree with
Stockman. We’re in for trouble, and sooner than we care to
admit.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 