-- Alonso Wins in China as F-1 Season Opens With Different Victors
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-14T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/ferrari-s-fernando-alonso-wins-chinese-formula-one-grand-prix.html
Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  won the
Chinese Grand Prix to give the 2013 Formula One world
championship different winners from the first three races.  Alonso finished 10 seconds ahead of Lotus’s Kimi Raikkonen
yesterday at the Shanghai International Circuit for his second
victory at the event. He joins  Lewis Hamilton  as the only
multiple winners in  China  since the country joined the series in
2004. Hamilton was third for Mercedes.  Alonso’s first triumph in 13 races, which came after he
went out of the previous event on the second lap, lifted the
two-time world champion to 31 career victories and into a tie
with  Nigel Mansell  in fourth place on the all-time list. Only
 Michael Schumacher ,  Alain Prost  and  Ayrton Senna  had more wins.  “It was nearly a perfect Sunday for us,” Alonso, a 31-
year-old Spaniard, said in a news conference. “The car felt
good. The two races we finished, one was second and the victory
today, so definitely it’s a positive start to this championship.
We need to keep going like that, in this direction.”  Red Bull ’s Sebastian Vettel, seeking his fourth straight
drivers’ title, finished fourth to stay atop the standings with
52 points, three ahead of Raikkonen. Alonso is a further six
points back in third place. Red Bull has a five-point lead over
Ferrari in the constructors’ championship.  The next event in the 19-race season, the Bahrain Grand
Prix, is scheduled to take place in six days at Sakhir.  “This is only the third race and in a few days we will
already be back on track to take on another challenge,” Ferrari
Team Principal Stefano Domenicali said in a statement. “In this
first part of the championship it is harder than ever to come up
with an accurate evaluation of the hierarchy in the field.”  Pit-Stop Strategy  In a Shanghai race dominated by tire and pit-stop strategy
yesterday, most of the cars used a three-stop tactic amid nine
lead changes.  Alonso, who had started in third place behind Raikkonen and
pole position-sitter Hamilton, went ahead of the field for good
with 13 of the 56 laps remaining after passing Vettel, who still
needed to make his final stop. It was Alonso’s first victory
since the 2012 German Grand Prix in July.  Vettel, who won the Malaysian Grand Prix three weeks ago,
made his final stop with five laps remaining and tried to close
an 11-second gap to Raikkonen and Hamilton, who held him off on
the last lap by two-tenths of a second.  “Fernando and Kimi were just a little bit too fast for us
during the race and my tires were shot at the end trying to keep
ahead of Sebastian,” Hamilton, the 2008 world champion, said in
a team statement. “I could see his car getting bigger and
bigger in my mirrors so it was nice to be able to hang on for
third place. We got the absolute most out of the car.”  Raikkonen Slowed  Raikkonen, who won the season-opening race in  Australia ,
was hampered by his car’s broken nose and front wing caused by
an earlier collision with Sergio Perez of McLaren. Alan Permane,
the Lotus team’s trackside operations director, said the Finn
was losing about 0.25 second per lap because of the damage.  “Kimi showed once more why he’s one of the very best
drivers in the world by being one of the fastest on track
despite sustaining damage to his car,” Lotus Team Principal
Eric Boullier said on the team’s website. “Without the incident
for Kimi, then we definitely would have fought for a win.”  Jenson Button  finished fifth after making two stops in his
McLaren. Alonso’s Ferrari teammate  Felipe Massa  was sixth ahead
of Toro Rosso’s Daniel Ricciardo, who converted his seventh
place on the grid into the same position at the end of the race
for his best career finish.  Force  India ’s Paul di Resta,  Romain Grosjean  of Lotus and
Sauber’s  Nico Hulkenberg  rounded out the points-scoring places.  Webber’s Woes  Vettel’s Red Bull teammate  Mark Webber , who started from
the pit lane after being demoted to the back of the grid for a
fuel rule infringement in qualifying, was forced to pit with
front-wing damage after colliding with Toro Rosso’s Jean-Eric
Vergne and subsequently retired when the right-rear wheel came
off his car. He was one of four drivers who failed to finish.  Adrian Sutil  quit after his Force India was hit by Esteban
Gutierrez’s Sauber, an incident that will see the rookie Mexican
driver drop five places on the grid in Bahrain as a penalty.  Webber will drop three starting places for next weekend’s
race after stewards penalized him for running into the side of
Vergne’s car as he attempted to pass the Frenchman on lap 15.  “It probably looks quite clumsy but I couldn’t get out of
it,” Webber said. “We have had a few problems this weekend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  