-- German SPD Leans Toward Backing Cyprus Aid Deal, Chief Whip Says
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-04-14T14:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/german-spd-leans-toward-backing-cyprus-aid-deal-chief-whip-says.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Social Democratic opponents are leaning toward voting with the
government in favor of aid for Cyprus after bank shareholders
and wealthy depositors were made to contribute, a senior party
official said.  The German parliament’s finance and budget committees are
scheduled to discuss the Cyprus bailout this week, with the
lower house due to hold a vote on the package at an as-yet
unspecified date. SPD lawmakers will hold an internal vote on
the rescue accord on April 16, said Thomas Oppermann, the
party’s chief whip.  “The result of the vote is open but there are positive
tendencies,” Oppermann said today in an interview at the SPD’s
national convention in the Bavarian city of Augsburg. He cited
as a reason the package’s inclusion of contributions from the
owners and biggest depositors of Cypriot banks.  Even as polls suggest bailout fatigue in  Germany  less than
six months before national elections, lawmakers from Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union  have signaled support for the Cyprus
package so long as taxpayer-funded loans are limited to the 10
billion euros ($13 billion) agreed.  While external assessors raised the estimate of Cyprus’s
total financing needs to 23 billion euros from 17 billion euros,
the island’s government has said it plans to close the gap on
its own efforts, including by selling gold reserves.  Parliamentary Seats  Merkel’s coalition has 330 members of the 620-seat lower
house of parliament, ensuring that it can pass legislation. The
SPD controls 146 seats. Merkel failed to muster the symbolic
“chancellor’s majority” in a parliamentary vote in November on
easing the aid terms for  Greece , forcing her to rely on
opposition support to pass the measure.  In a Feb. 3 interview published in Der Spiegel magazine,
SPD chancellor candidate Peer Steinbrueck set out four
conditions for backing aid for Cyprus: winding down some Cypriot
banks, measures to combat  money laundering , the introduction of
a financial transaction tax in Cyprus and a review of the
island’s corporate tax rates.  Merkel’s coalition will probably have their own majority in
a vote on Cyprus this month,  Norbert Barthle , the CDU’s budget
spokesman, said in an April 11 interview.  Pending approval by governments and legislatures, Cyprus
may gain initial aid of as much as 2 billion euros before May
31, according to the European Stability Mechanism.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Augsburg, Germany at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Augsburg, Germany at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  