-- German Curve Reveals Woes Masked by Spanish Rally: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-15T09:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/german-curve-reveals-woes-masked-by-spanish-rally-euro-credit.html
The widening yield gap between 10-
and 30-year German government securities suggests recent gains
in Spanish and Italian bonds may prove unsustainable.  The  spread , a measure of risk perceptions among
bondholders, rose to 97.5 basis points on April 4, the most
since September 2011, as 10-year yields plunged. The steepening
yield curve suggests investors are favoring  Europe ’s safest
fixed-income assets as Italy awaits a government seven weeks
after elections and the bank  crisis in Cyprus  stokes concern the
region’s debt crisis may worsen.  While securities from Europe’s periphery have weathered
haggling over aid for Cyprus, with  Spanish 10-year borrowing
costs  down to the lowest since November 2010, German 10-year
yields have  declined  to eight-month lows. The Cypriot plan came
almost nine months after the nation first requested aid,
Slovenia risks seeking a bailout, and a final agreement on a so-
called financial union remains elusive.  “The German yield curve is driven primarily by risk
aversion,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit Global Research in Milan. “Despite some
sign of stability in the euro-region’s bond market, there’s a
lot of uncertainty. People are still looking for the safest
assets to preserve their capital. Ten-year German debt is a
popular choice.”  ‘Very Cautious’  Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which manages the equivalent of
about $51 billion, is “still very cautious” about peripheral
bonds, according to Kei Katayama, who buys non-yen debt for
 Japan ’s second-largest brokerage.  “The problem in the region is more political than
financial, and there are too many conflicts and too many members
involved,” said Katayama. “It’s hard to see how they are going
to reach solutions that are effective and logical. There is
always the possibility that an agreement on a difficult problem
is reached because of political reasons. That sort of situation
is uncomfortable for money managers like myself who are not
familiar with this kind of political analysis.”  Ten-year German bonds yield about 1.27 percent today, after
touching 1.20 percent on April 5, the lowest since July 24. The
rate on 30-year debt is 2.21 percent, leaving the yield
difference between the securities 94 basis points, up from an
average of 74 in 2012.  Cazzulani said investors prefer 10-year bonds to two-year
notes or 30-year debt as they offer higher yields than the
former and are less vulnerable to inflation than the latter.  German two-year note yields are at 0.02 percent, and may
fall further, as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi
signalled on April 4 that policy makers stand ready to cut
borrowing costs if the economy deteriorates. The ECB’s
maintenance of record low interest rate during an extended
period risks fuelling inflation in a longer-term, making holding
30-year debt less attractive.  Japanese Demand  The spread may narrow in coming months, according to
strategists at HSBC Holdings Plc in London. They suggest a
flattening trend driven by anticipation that Japanese investors,
buoyed by the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s unprecedented stimulus plan, will
seek longer-dated bonds for higher returns.  “The weakness of the economy, falling inflation, and low
probability of the ECB starting its own quantitative easing
means German and French bonds could be regarded as good
substitutes for Japanese government bonds,”  Steven Major ,
HSBC’s head of global fixed-income research, wrote in a client
note on April 11. “But as the yields of 10-year benchmarks
fall, there will be a natural tendency to look for the next
target.”  The BOJ said April 4 that it plans to buy 7.5 trillion yen
($75.8 billion) of bonds a month, the biggest such move since
the nation began a quantitative easing program in 2001 to boost
its economy.  Spanish Yields  Bonds from the so-called peripheral nations rallied from
July through January after Draghi pledged to backstop the euro,
luring investors back to the higher-yielding European assets
that they abandoned during the debt crisis. Draghi proposed a
program known as Outright Monetary Transactions, under which the
ECB will buy the bonds of member nations that request assistance
and meet certain criteria.  The yield on  Spanish 10-year bonds  dropped to 4.61 percent
on April 11 from 5.27 percent at the end of last year. Italian
 10-year yields  fell 45 basis points this month.  Italy remains without a new government after an election in
February failed to produce a parliamentary majority, leaving
Prime Minister Mario Monti as caretaker. Monti said April 10
that Italy’s debt will reach a post-war record of 130.4 percent
of gross domestic product this year as the euro region’s third-
biggest economy borrows to help contribute to bailouts and pay
arrears to government suppliers.  Slovenia’s Woes  The European Commission warned April 10 that Slovenian
banks may need fresh capital as over-indebted companies struggle
to repay loans amid a double-dip recession. Shrinking demand at
last week’s debt auction signaled that investors increasingly
expect Slovenia to seek a bailout. Spain is already tapping aid
for its banking system.  German bonds were further supported this month as reports
indicated the euro economy is struggling to emerge from
recession.  An index of services activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers declined to 46.4 last month from 47.9 in
February, London-based Markit Economics said April 4. A similar
report for the  manufacturing industry , released on April 2,
showed a reading of 46.8, below the 50-level which indicates the
border between expansion and contraction for a 20th month.  Draghi signaled this month that further stimulus is
possible and that monetary policy will “remain accommodative
for as long as needed.”  The steepening curve is “mostly down to risk aversion,”
said Allan von Mehren, chief analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
Copenhagen. “Data has really disappointed and the ECB may be
back at the table. I think we’re in a more traditional pattern
when yields come down we see a steepening of the curve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  