-- Merkel Challenger Steinbrueck Attacks Wealth Gap as Election Key
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-04-14T22:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/german-spd-s-gabriel-blasts-merkel-capitalism-at-party-meeting.html
Germany ’s Social Democratic
chancellor candidate  Peer Steinbrueck  assailed an expanding
wealth gap and unhindered capitalism that he accused Angela Merkel of failing to check as he attempted to gain traction in
his campaign to unseat her.  Declaring “I want to be chancellor,” Steinbrueck
championed an increase in the top income-tax rate to 49 percent
and a minimum hourly wage of 8.50 euros ($11.15) as policies
that will address a “gulf” in society, while portraying
Merkel’s coalition as negligent in protecting average Germans
from financial-market excesses.  “Never again will risk-taking speculator X in  New York ,
 London  or Frankfurt be allowed to put the savings of Marie
Tibulski from Bottrop in danger,” Steinbrueck told delegates to
a party convention yesterday in the Bavarian city of Augsburg.
“And never again will system-relevant banks have such potential
to blackmail whole states.”  Less than six months before the Sept. 22 election, the
challenge for Steinbrueck to stop Merkel winning a third term
has sharpened as the chancellor basks in overwhelming voter
support for her handling of turmoil in the euro area. Merkel’s
first-term finance minister and one-time ally in shepherding
Germany through the global financial crisis, Steinbrueck’s
response is a plank of measures to bolster social justice while
ratcheting up regulation on banks and markets.  ‘Finance Jugglers’  “Restraining the financial markets is economically right
because finance jugglers don’t create wealth but destroy
wealth,” he said. It’s also “socially just because otherwise
profits are privatized and losses socialized.” The  Social
Democrats  “want a market economy that conforms with democracy -
- that’s the opposite of what Mrs. Merkel wants,” Steinbrueck
said.  Speaking as an anti-euro party was founded in Berlin,
Steinbrueck didn’t dwell on the crisis in the 17-nation euro
area that spread from  Greece  and has dominated Merkel’s second
term. He failed to mention his party’s platform pledge to pool
debt in a “redemption fund,” nor did he outline his solution
to the stumbling energy overhaul that Merkel has begun after
deciding to close the country’s nuclear plants.  Steinbrueck instead portrayed Merkel’s government as tired
and out of ideas, content to give the impression of tackling
Germany’s ills without taking real action. The government “has
no ambition, no goals,” he said.  Tax Dodging  The SPD, which signed off on its campaign platform in
Augsburg, would clamp down on tax dodging, introduce a
“solidarity pension,” improve elderly care, ensure equal pay
for women and men and limit rent increases for new letters to 10
percent, he said.  “This government has nothing more on the shelves, just
pretty boxes in the shop window,” Steinbrueck said. “And when
their empty shelves aren’t enough they steal from us,” he said,
citing government plans to split investment from retail banking
and measures to tackle  tax evasion .  The SPD trails Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc by 26
points to 41 percent, an increase of two percentage points on
the previous week, according to an  Emnid poll  for yesterday’s
Bild am Sonntag newspaper. With the gap widening, 48 percent of
500 SPD voters polled said their party would do better with a
different candidate for chancellor against 44 percent who said
they backed Steinbreuck to lead them into the election, the
newspaper said. It gave no margin of error.  Brecht, Diesel  SPD Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  used his speech in Augsburg,
the home town of dramatist Bertolt Brecht and 19th-century
engine pioneer Rudolf Diesel, to attack global corporations
paying less than their fair share of taxes, saying his party
must “drain this swamp” of excessive capitalism.  Gabriel singled out  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  as
companies he said were benefiting from low taxes in  Europe . The
SPD chairman referred to an unnamed Internet executive who
“proudly” touted his company’s tax levy of less than 5 percent
as a benefit of a capitalist system.  “We Social Democrats will take up the battle against this
kind of capitalism,” Gabriel told the delegates.  He criticized Merkel’s reliance on austerity measures at
the expense of economic growth, saying that she had brought the
European Union to “the biggest crisis of its history.”  “Europe has piled up a trillion euros in debt in the last
three years with  Angela Merkel  in charge -- no wonder deficits
are shrinking; debt is piling up because economic growth is
slipping away,” Gabriel said. “We need a real change of policy
direction.”  Gabriel pushed back against polls showing the gap between
the SPD and Merkel’s Christian Democrats widening, rebuffing
suggestions that the SPD’s only way into government would be a
“grand coalition” with Merkel’s bloc. A coalition with the
Greens “and nothing else” is his party’s goal, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Augsburg, Germany at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Augsburg, Germany at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  