-- Global Defense Spending Falls as U.S. Cuts Outpace China Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-04-14T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/global-defense-spending-falls-as-u-s-cuts-outpace-china-growth.html
Global  defense spending  contracted
for the first time in 15 years last year as U.S. and European
cuts exceeded rising outlays in  China  and  Russia , the Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute said.  In the first decline since 1998, states spent $1.75
trillion on defense last year, or 0.5 percent less in real terms
than in 2011, the research group said in a report today.  The U.S. and much of  Europe  have curtailed military
spending as commitments in  Afghanistan  wind down and governments
cut budgets to reduce debt. The White House last week said it is
seeking about $615 billion in Pentagon spending for the fiscal
year starting in October, about the same as this year, before
mandatory spending cuts.  “Military spending is likely to keep falling for the next
two to three years,” Sam Perlo-Freeman, head of the research
group’s military expenditure project, said in an interview.
“Spending will then probably level out and maybe rise again
depending to a very large extent on what is happening
economically.”  Budget austerity has affected Europe in particular, with 20
of 37 countries in western and central Europe slashing spending
by more than 10 percent since 2008,  SIPRI said .  “We are seeing what may be the beginning of a shift in the
balance of world military spending from the rich Western
countries to emerging regions,” Perlo-Freeman said. Military
spending in the  Middle East  and North Africa rose significantly,
he said.  China Rise  China, with the second highest level of spending after the
U.S., boosted outlays 7.8 percent to an estimated $166 billion,
SIPRI said. The country’s military budget has increased 175
percent since 2003.  “The interesting question is to what extent are they going
to be able to translate military expenditure into power
projection capability,” Perlo-Freeman said. “China in some
respects is still well behind Europe even though it now spends
as much as Britain,  France  and  Germany  combined.”  U.S. spending was $682 billion last year, a fall of 6
percent from 2011, the organization said.  Chinese military spending could overtake the U.S. around
2022, based on growth rates seen in the past decade, said Giri
Rajendran, a research associate at the London-based
International Institute for Strategic Studies. A slowdown in
growth rates could delay the cross over point past 2030, he
said.  Biggest Jump  Russian military spending saw the biggest year-on-year jump
among the top 15 countries, with growth of 16 percent to about
$91 billion, SIPRI said. The third-biggest spender has gone on a
modernization spree with the goal of replacing around 70 percent
of equipment by 2020, the Stockholm-based group said.  The U.K. was the fourth-biggest spender with $60.8 billion
in 2012, down 0.8 percent, while  Japan  was fifth, with a 0.6
percent decline to $59.3 billion, SIPRI said. France last year
slid one position to become the country with the sixth highest
defense expenditure with $58.9 billion.  The top 15 countries were responsible for more than four-
fifths of all military spending in 2012, with the U.S. alone
responsible for nearly two-fifths, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  