-- Goldman’s Big Guns Fire Dud in Defense of Megabanks
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-04-14T22:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/goldman-s-big-guns-fire-dud-in-defense-of-megabanks.html
The six very large U.S. bank
holding companies --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup (C)  Inc.,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group
Inc. and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  -- share a pressing intellectual
problem: They need to explain why they should be allowed to
continue with their dangerous business model.  So far their justifications have been weak, and the latest
analysis on this topic from Goldman Sachs may even help make the
case for breaking up the financial institutions and making them
safer.  Legislative proposals from two senators, Democrat  Sherrod Brown  of Ohio and Republican  David Vitter  of Louisiana, have
grabbed attention and could move the consensus against the
modern megabanks. Under intense pressure from Democratic Senator
 Elizabeth Warren  of Massachusetts, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  conceded recently that the U.S. still has a problem
with financial institutions that are seen as too big to fail.
Pressed by Republican Senator Chuck Grassley of  Iowa , among
others, Attorney General Eric Holder is sticking to his story
that these companies are too big to prosecute. Cyprus offers
another vivid reminder of what happens when  banks (S5FINL)  become too big
to save.  Goldman Report  In this context, it is no surprise to see the financial
sector wheel out its own intellectual big guns. A frisson no
doubt rippled through the financial-lobbying community last week
with the release of a  report  from Goldman Sachs’s equity
research team, “Brown-Vitter bill: The impact of potential new
capital rules.” This is the A-team at bat, presumably with
clearance from the highest levels of management.  Yet instead of providing any kind of rebuttal to the
proposals in Brown-Vitter, the report may strengthen the case
for breaking up the six megabanks, while also requiring that
they and any successors protect themselves with more equity
relative to levels of debt. Read the report with five main
points in mind.  First, notice the lack of sophistication about bank capital
itself. The authors write of banks being required to “hold”
capital, as if it were on the asset side of the balance sheet.
They go on to construct a mechanistic link that implies that
“holding” capital prevents lending.  Banks don’t hold capital. The proposals are concerned with
the liability side of the balance sheet -- specifically, the
extent to which banks fund themselves with debt relative to
equity (a synonym for capital in this context). Higher  capital
requirements  push companies to increase their relative reliance
on equity funding, thus increasing their ability to absorb
losses without becoming distressed or failing. If the transition
is properly handled, there is no reason that more equity funding
would translate into lower lending.  Second, the Goldman Sachs analysts seem completely unaware
of the recent book by  Anat Admati  and Martin Hellwig, “ The
Bankers’ New Clothes ,” in which those authors -- who are top
finance professors -- debunk the way many bank representatives
(including the authors of the Goldman Sachs note) look at issues
around capital.  More equity relative to debt on a bank’s balance sheet
means that equity and debt become safer: The bigger buffer
against losses helps both.  Goldman Sachs makes much of the implications for return on
equity, without mentioning any adjustment for risk. Bankers are
generally paid based on return on equity without proper risk
adjustment. Naturally, they like a great deal of leverage, but
the reasoning they use to justify this is fallacious (see
Chapter 8 in  Admati and Hellwig ).  Safety Measures  Admati and Hellwig make the broader case that we can run
our system much more safely. Goldman Sachs made a big mistake by
refusing to take them on directly.  The bank is correct in its assessment that bank equity is
higher than it was before the 2007-08 crisis, but this is the
natural reaction to a near-death experience. Over the cycle, big
banks will again become more leveraged (meaning they will have
less equity relative to debt). As a result, Goldman is far too
optimistic in its projection of the capital levels that will be
needed when the next crisis hits. Current -- and likely future -
- levels of equity capital are insufficient for our intensely
interconnected financial system.  Contrast Goldman Sachs’s note with this  excellent speech 
last week by Tom Hoenig, vice chairman at the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., on the illusion of the Basel III rules in
particular and the right way to think about capital more
generally.  Third, while the Goldman Sachs analysts get some points for
stating the obvious about Brown-Vitter -- “In our view such a
bill would incent the largest banks to break up” -- they fail to
explain why this would be a bad thing.  They do, however, have a line about how banks could only be
broken up along existing divisional lines, though they fail to
make clear why they believe this is the case or how it would be
the best deal for shareholders. Also, once the too-big-to-fail
subsidies fade, these new companies would probably be smaller
than projected by Goldman Sachs. Less complex, easier to govern
and more transparent to supervisors sounds pretty attractive, to
officials and investors. (Any client can request a copy of
Goldman’s May 2010 report, “U.S. Banks: Regulation.” See Page
32, where it explains how JPMorgan and Bank of America would be
worth more if broken up.  Richard Ramsden  is the lead author of
both this report and the one cited above.)  Fourth, the analysts express concern that these smaller
companies will be less diversified and therefore more fragile
than the megabanks. Delusions of diversification are precisely
what brought us to the brink of catastrophe in September 2008.
Have the smartest people on  Wall Street  really learned so
little?  Diversification Imperative  From a social perspective, we want a system in which some
companies can fail while others prosper, more like the
conditions under which  hedge funds  operate. For macroeconomic
purposes, we want diversity within the financial sector, not
diversification within Citigroup (which has come close to
failing three times since 1982 precisely because of this
misperception).  Fifth, on supposed progress to eliminate too big to fail,
Goldman’s arguments fall under the heading of what  Winston Churchill  called terminological inexactitude. The Orderly
Liquidation Authority under the Dodd-Frank financial reform law
won’t work for complex cross-border banks, such as Goldman,
because there is no cross-border resolution authority. Living
wills have so far proved to be a joke, and annual stress tests
show every sign of becoming a meaningless ritual that undermines
serious supervision.  What will move forward the debate? Will it be another
money-laundering scandal, another disaster in the European
financial system, or further revelations about the London Whale
and Libor?  Or will it be thoughtful people sitting down to evaluate
the best in-depth arguments for both sides? If it’s Admati and
Hellwig v. Goldman Sachs in the court of informed public
opinion, reformers win in a landslide.  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is  co-author  of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 