-- Google’s EU Antitrust Settlement Offer Won’t Suit Rivals
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-04-15T16:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/google-offer-to-settle-eu-antitrust-probe-unacceptable-to-rivals.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s offer to settle an
antitrust probe with the European Union by labeling its own
services more clearly in Web search results is a “non-starter”
for a group of competitors such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Foundem.  The companies and at least 10 other rivals that filed
complaints with the EU will be able to give feedback on the
remedies submitted by the Mountain View, California-based
company to settle the almost three-year-old investigation.  Google, operator of the world’s largest Internet search
engine, told the Brussels-based EU that it would create more
distinction in searches between its own services and
competitors, a person familiar with the negotiations said last
week. Google also proposed to offer links to rival search
engines, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the details of the offer aren’t public.  “If what has been proposed is labeling or a modified form
of labeling, frankly that’s a non-starter,” said David Wood, a
lawyer for Brussels-based industry group ICOMP, which includes
Microsoft. “We haven’t seen the proposals and the commission
hasn’t explained them to us. We’re in the dark.”  EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia has urged
Google to address four points, including allegations that the
company promotes its own specialist search services, copies
rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and has agreements with
websites and software developers that stifle competition in the
advertising industry.  Negative Test  Even with a negative market test, “the commission can go
ahead, no matter what,” said Andreas Stargard, a competition
lawyer with law firm Paul Hastings LLP in Brussels.  Still, the commission “has to keep in mind the potential
of an appeal ultimately at the European court,” said Stargard.
“It cannot be arbitrary in its rejection of concerns.”  The EU probe is another chance for Google competitors and
complainants to get the changes they’re seeking from Google. The
U.S. in January closed a 20-month investigation into whether
Google unfairly promoted its own services in search results over
competing websites. The Federal Trade Commission concluded that
Google was motivated more by wanting to improve its search
results and the user’s experience than by a desire to stifle
competition.  Foundem, a shopping comparison website and a complainant
with the EU, sued Google in  London  in June to get damages for
revenue lost as a result of the search engine owner’s “anti-
competitive conduct,” according to court documents.  High Stakes  “It is difficult to imagine a competition case where the
stakes for European consumers and businesses could be any
higher,” Shivaun Raff, Foundem’s chief executive officer, said
in an e-mail today. “As the gateway to the Internet, Google
plays a decisive role in determining what the vast majority of
Europeans discover, read, use, and purchase online.”  Raff said Foundem will “withhold judgement on Google’s
proposals until we have seen them.” The remedies described so
far “would do nothing to resolve the commission’s stated
concerns regarding search manipulation,” she said.  The EU is preparing a market test based on Google’s formal
submission, Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Almunia, said
last week while declining to comment on the specifics of
Google’s offer. Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels,
said that the company continues to cooperate with the
commission.  ‘Non-Discrimination’  “When the market test goes ahead, we will try and be
constructive,” Wood said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“But if it doesn’t clearly set out non-discrimination
principles and the means to deal with the restoration of
effective competition, plus effective enforcement and
compliance, it’s very difficult to see how it can be
satisfactory.”  The EU started the formal probe in November 2010 of claims
that Google discriminates against other services in its search
results and stops some websites from accepting competitors’
adverts. While Microsoft and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a
quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog post
in 2011, citing data from regulators.  Thomas Vinje, a Brussels lawyer for the FairSearch
Coalition, another group of technology companies including
Microsoft,  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , said Google displays
links to its own search services differently from links to
competitors, resulting in preferential treatment in comparison
to similar services.  “Google should subject its own products and services to
the same policy it uses for others,” Vinje said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  New Complaint  FairSearch said April 9 that it had filed a separate
antitrust complaint against Google over its Android operating
system on mobile phones. In addition, Google’s Motorola Mobility
unit is the subject of another EU probe related to patent
licensing.  Vinje and Wood both said that for any settlement with
Google to be effective, it would have to be global and not only
apply to the 27-nation EU.  The commission should also address how it will deal with
“other issues that are on the table,” such as mobile search
and concerns from online mapping companies, Wood said.  Streetmap, another member of ICOMP, sued Google in London
on March 15 for promoting its own maps over those of competitors
in what it claimed was “Google’s cynical manipulation of search
results.”  “If the commission wants to have support on the remedies
decision, it has to clearly deal with those things,” Wood said.  An EU settlement avoids any decision on whether a company
broke antitrust rules. Companies can be fined as much as 10
percent of their annual revenue if they break the terms of a
legally binding settlement. Almunia first told Google in May
2012 that he wanted to settle the investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Dublin at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  