-- High Court Weighs Entering New York’s Gun-Carrying Fight
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-04-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/high-court-weighs-entering-new-york-s-gun-carrying-fight.html
The gun-control debate might be
about to enter a new arena.  The U.S. Supreme Court will announce as early as today
whether it will hear a constitutional challenge to a century-old
New York state law that requires people seeking to carry a
 handgun  in public to show a special need for self-protection.  The case would thrust the justices into the middle of the
gun-policy debate raging in Washington and statehouses around
the nation in the aftermath of the Connecticut school shooting.
The issue of public possession has divided lower courts and
would almost certainly do the same at the Supreme Court, which
backed gun rights in 5-4 decisions in 2008 and 2010.  “It is only a matter of time before the justices hear a
case about public possession of guns,” said Adam Winkler, a
professor at the University of California at Los Angeles School
of Law and the author of a book on the history of the gun-rights
battle.  In upholding New York’s law, which requires applicants to
show “proper cause” to get a permit to carry a weapon, a
federal appeals court pointed to what it called “a longstanding
tradition of states regulating firearm possession and use in
public because of the dangers posed to public safety.”  The measure is being challenged by five residents of New
York’s Westchester County in an appeal supported by 20 states
and the National Rifle Association.  The state “treats the carrying of handguns for self-
defense not as a right but as an administrative privilege lying
beyond the reach of most people,” the residents, led by Alan
Kachalsky, argued in court papers.  Laws Changing  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman countered that
the state’s law “is similar to the types of longstanding laws
that courts have repeatedly upheld.”  In 1981, just three states -- Maine, Washington and Vermont
-- let typical residents carry weapons in public without giving
a reason. Today, about 40 states do.  “This has been a major legal change at the state level,”
said Robert Spitzer, a political scientist at the State
University of New York in Cortland.  Federal appeals courts are divided on the remaining laws
that restrict public possession. A different court struck down
an Illinois law that barred most people from carrying a loaded
weapon in public, saying it violated the Constitution’s Second
Amendment.  Maryland Limits  A third federal appeals court last month upheld a Maryland
law that requires “good and substantial reason” for having a
handgun in public. A fourth case, involving a New Jersey law, is
now before yet another appeals court.  The legal disagreement stems from ambiguities in the 2008
Supreme Court decision that, for the first time, said the
Constitution protects an individual right to bear arms. That
ruling focused on gun rights in the home, striking down a
District of Columbia handgun ban. A follow-up case in 2010 also
involved in-home possession.  In the New York case, the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
said that, while the Second Amendment applies in public, the
government has greater power to impose restrictions there.  Outside the home, “public safety interests often outweigh
individual interests in self-defense,” the three-judge panel
said.  Newtown Reaction  The Dec. 14 shooting at Newtown, Connecticut, which killed
20 first graders and six educators, unleashed a flurry of
legislative activity around the country, often dividing
lawmakers along partisan lines.  New restrictions on guns have passed in New York,
Connecticut, Colorado and Maryland, all of which are led by
Democrats. More states have moved in the opposite direction: Six
relaxed restrictions, including those on carrying guns into
churches, schools or workplace parking lots.  Congress  is considering legislation that would expand the
number of people subject to background checks when they buy a
firearm.  The shifting terrain and political combustibility might
give the justices pause as they consider whether to dive into
the debate.  “The justices have to be concerned about the politics of
guns after Newtown,” Winkler said. For now, “the justices may
want to steer clear of this issue altogether.”  The case is Kachalsky v. Cacace, 12-845.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  