-- Millwall to Ban Fans Involved in Violence; Newcastle Clashes
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-04-14T19:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/millwall-to-ban-fans-involved-in-violence-at-f-a-cup-semifinal.html
Millwall said it will ban fans
found guilty of violence at yesterday’s F.A. Cup semifinal
against Wigan. There was also trouble after a Premier League
game at Newcastle today.  The semifinal at London’s Wembley Stadium was marred as
some fans in the Millwall section fought among themselves during
the second half of the game, which Wigan won 2-0.  Television images showed police breaking up the trouble,
which left some supporters bloodied and younger ones crying.
Police said 14 men were arrested at the game, 12 of them
Millwall fans. The two Wigan supporters arrested were not
involved in disorder with Millwall followers, police said.  Some fans of second-tier Millwall have been involved in
incidents of disorder in the past and the club has worked to
improve its image.  “Anyone associated with our club found guilty of violent
behavior will be banned indefinitely from Millwall matches in
addition to any punishment they receive from the authorities,”.
Millwall Chief Executive Officer Andy Ambler said on the
southeast London club’s  website . “Having worked so hard to show
the positive side of our club both on and off the field, we
cannot allow the actions of a mindless minority to undermine
that.”  London’s Metropolitan Police said it “will be working with
the Football Association, Wembley Stadium and other partners to
ensure its investigation identifies all those involved.”  The F.A. said it “deplores the scenes which have taken
place, which are unacceptable. Everything will be done to take
action against those involved.”  In the final, Wigan will play fellow Premier League team
Manchester City, which beat defending Cup champion Chelsea 2-1
in today’s semifinal at Wembley.  Today, police arrested 27 soccer fans after violence broke
out following the derby match between northeast England teams
Newcastle and Sunderland, Sky Sports reported.  Missiles were thrown at police as rival supporters were
involved in angry scenes at Central Station in Newcastle upon
Tyne. Three police officers were hurt and one was taken to the
hospital. Sunderland had won the game 3-0.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  