-- Time Warner’s ‘42’ Opens as Top Film With Sales of $27 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-04-14T15:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/time-warner-s-42-opens-as-top-film-with-sales-of-27-million.html
The Jackie Robinson biography
“42” opened as the top weekend film at theaters in the U.S.
and Canada, taking in $27 million for Legendary Pictures and
distributor  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)   The spoof “Scary Movie 5,” was second in its debut,
taking in $15 million for Weinstein Co.’s Dimension Films,
researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in an e-mailed
statement.  “42” is the first independent production for Legendary, which
is led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Thomas Tull and
best known for its “Dark Knight” films. The company, whose
financing and co-production agreement with  Warner Bros . expires
at this end of the year, is developing three more on its own,
including the action films “Great Wall” and “Pacific Rim.”  In “42” Chadwick Boseman stars as the first black to play
 Major League Baseball . Harrison Ford co-stars as  Branch Rickey ,
the Brooklyn Dodgers general manager who recruited Robinson and
helped him deal with the racism of fans and players. The film,
made for $40 million, was expected to take in $21.1 million this
weekend, the estimate of Box Office Mojo.  “Scary Movie 5” continues the series poking fun at the
horror genre. The latest version takes on the recent trend of
possession movies by focusing on a couple who are stalked by a
demon soon after they bring their newborn home from the
hospital.  The first four films generated $818.2 million in global
ticket sales. The new installment cost about $20 million and was
forecast to take in $17.6 million, according to Box Office Mojo.  “The Croods,” about a prehistoric family of cave
dwellers, was third with $13 million in receipts for DreamWorks
Animation SKG. The movie, featuring the voices of Nicolas Cage,
 Emma Stone  and  Ryan Reynolds , has taken in $142.5 million after
four weeks in theaters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  