-- India Convertible Sales Halt as Funds Bleed on Defaults
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-04-15T05:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/india-convertible-sales-halt-as-funds-bleed-on-defaults.html
Convertible debt sales in  India 
have halted as investors shun the notes in  Asia ’s worst-
performing stock market, with defaults extending 2012’s record.  Issuance of bonds that can be exchanged for shares was zero
in 2013, compared with $600 million in 2012 and a record $7.5
billion in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the slowest start since 2000, the data show. Convertibles
returned 0.27 percent last quarter, the worst performance in the
Asia-Pacific after  Singapore ’s 0.8 percent loss, Barclays Plc
indexes show. The region’s average return was 3.8 percent.  “Convertibles are generally issued in bull markets, when
there is lot of appetite for equities,” U.R. Bhat, director at
Dalton Capital Advisors India Pvt. in Mumbai, said by telephone
on April 11. “There is no appetite now. Investors are not
optimistic about the equity markets because the economic
indicators are not good.”  Three Indian issuers of exchangeable debt defaulted on $241
million so far this year, adding to a record $619 million of
non-payments in 2012 that were led by wind-turbine maker  Suzlon
Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex Index of shares slumped
6.3 percent in 2013, while the MSCI Asia-Pacific  index  gained
5.7 percent, as brokerages forecast falling earnings in the past
quarter amid the slowest annual economic growth in a decade.  India’s biggest companies are poised to report the first
decline in quarterly earnings in three years. Net incomes for
the 30 members of the Sensex may fall 0.8 percent from a year
ago in the three months ended March 31, according to estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Kotak Institutional Equities and Religare
 Capital Markets  are among brokerages cutting  forecasts .  Forecasts Slashed  Shares in  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest software
services exporter, slumped 21 percent on April 12, the most in a
decade, as it forecast annual sales will rise slower than
analysts estimated. Bank of America Corp. has slashed its
earnings growth projection for Sensex companies for the year
ending March 2014 to 10 percent, from 17 percent.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao cut the
benchmark repurchase  rate  to 7.5 percent from 8 percent in two
reductions last quarter, as the government’s statistics agency
forecast a 5 percent increase in gross domestic product growth
in the fiscal year ended March 31, the weakest since 2003.
Industrial production growth slowed to 0.6 percent in February
from 2.4 percent in January, while consumer prices gained 10.39
percent in March, the fastest pace among the four largest
emerging economies, official data released April 12 show.  Emerging Uncertainties  The rupee weakened about 6 percent to 54.7650 per dollar in
the past 12 months as India’s current-account  deficit  swelled to
a record. The shortfall in the widest measure of trade was $32.6
billion in the quarter ended Dec. 31, or 6.7 percent of GDP. The
currency fell 0.4 percent today.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s ruling alliance is 44 seats
short of parliamentary majority after a key ally pulled out of
the coalition last month. This will make it difficult for the
government to push through key legislation needed to boost
growth.  “We’re not seeing any great recovery in the economy or
signs of earnings upgrades,” Sanjeev Prasad, senior  executive
director  at Kotak Institutional Equities, told Bloomberg TV
India on April 8. “Investors are naturally evaluating what they
need to do in India in the light of emerging political
uncertainty, the not-so-great fundamentals of the Indian market
and the fact that macro-economic parameters are still looking
pretty weak.”  Debt Issuance  Indian companies sold $16.8 billion of convertibles from
2005 to 2007, when the Sensex index more than doubled in value
and GDP grew more than 9 percent annually. International equity-
linked debt sales touched a two-year high at $26.3 billion last
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Ninety nine
companies sold exchangeable debt in the period, the data show.  Bartronics India Ltd., Geodesic Ltd. and Vardhman Polytex
Ltd. failed to repay convertibles in the last quarter, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The local convertible market’s collapse contrasts with a
record start to the year for sales of coupon-paying dollar
notes. Issuers including  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL)  raised $6.3 billion overseas in the three months
ended March 31, the data show.  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s
largest lender by assets, raised $1 billion of five-year notes
at a coupon of 3.25 percent April 11.  Average dollar yields for local companies fell 30 basis
points this year, and touched an all-time low of 3.81 percent on
March 18, according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes. Falling yields
have also boosted sales of rupee-denominated debt to an all-time
high. Local-currency issuance jumped 15 percent to 737 billion
rupees ($13.5 billion) last quarter from the preceding three
months.  Sovereign Yield  The yield on 10-year  government bonds   declined  nine basis
points last quarter, offering an extra 613 basis points over
U.S. Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The rate on
the benchmark 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 fell 2 basis
points to 7.85 percent.  The cost of insuring the debt of  State Bank  of India,
considered a proxy for the sovereign by some investors, using
five-year credit-default swaps slid 21 basis points this year to
205, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately
negotiated markets. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “Convertibles are not being sold as investors prefer
coupon-paying bonds,” Hemant Dharnidharka, the head of credit
research at SJS Markets Ltd. in Bangalore, said in an April 10
telephone interview. “It serves the company’s interest to sell
bonds that pay a coupon, rather than convertibles, as they face
no equity dilution on maturity. Most of the convertibles that
are maturing since last year were issued when the companies were
not ready to pay an upfront coupon every year, and this debt had
a redemption price of 1.3 to 1.4 times the face value.”  Bharat, Gitanjali  Bharat Forge Ltd. (BHFC)  is among three local companies that need
to redeem $90 million of convertibles by the end of the year,
according to Bloomberg-compiled data. Outstanding convertible
debt declined 44 percent in 2012 as $4.7 billion matured or was
reorganized, the data show. Another $4.7 billion of notes are
due for repayment by the end of this decade.  Gitanjali Gems Ltd. (GITG) , the owner of jewelry brands Nakshatra,
Gili and Asmi, deferred plans to sell convertibles, the company
said in an exchange filing March 26. The Mumbai-based company
had planned to sell equity-linked notes maturing 2018.  “Fund managers are bleeding on exposure to Indian
convertibles and sentiment is very unfavorable because of the
defaults,” Raj Kothari, a London-based fixed-income trader at
Sun Global Investment Ltd., said in an April 9 telephone
interview. “Unless the blue chip companies sell bonds, a
revival of the convertible  bond market  will be tough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  