-- Draghi Sees No Currency War as Bank of Japan Boosts Economy
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-04-15T16:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/japan-hearing-calls-from-u-s-to-europe-not-to-drive-down-yen.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  indicated support for Japan’s efforts to beat
deflation by suggesting they aren’t aimed at weakening the yen.  With Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers
preparing to convene this week in  Washington , Draghi said in
Amsterdam today that the increased stimulus announced by the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  this month is “determined by domestic policy
considerations” and that “there is no currency war.”  The comments imply backing for Japan’s policies after the
central bank surprised investors on April 4 by doubling monthly
bond purchases and setting a two-year horizon for achieving its
goal of 2 percent inflation, prompting the yen to slide against
all of its main counterparts. That salvo left foreign policy
makers coupling praise for the effort to boost Japan’s stagnant
economy with concern it may come at the expense of their
exporters.  The yen advanced today following last week’s call by the
 U.S. Treasury  for the world’s third-largest economy to refrain
from competitive devaluation.  While Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said today
that the G-20 will discuss the spillover of Japan’s policies,
strategists from Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. say the
debate is likely to be quieter than in February, when policy
makers agreed in Moscow to avoid purposefully managing exchange
rates.  “‘Currency wars’ issues are much less likely to be a key
point of discussion,” said  Greg Anderson , the North America
head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup in  New York .  Currency Report  The U.S. Treasury used its semi-annual currency report to
Congress to say April 12 that Japan must “remain oriented
towards meeting respective domestic objectives using domestic
instruments and to refrain from competitive devaluation and
targeting its  exchange rate  for competitive purposes.”  According to a planning document prepared for the G-20
talks, the European Union will note the “lack of credible
medium-term fiscal consolidation plans in the U.S. and Japan.”
It will push  Tokyo  to make structural reforms to an economy
roiled by repeat recessions over the past two decades, according
to the document.  The U.S. stance echoes that adopted by the Group of Seven
and G-20 in February, when members pledged not to target
exchange rates for competitive reasons. That was interpreted as
an endorsement of  Japan ’s recovery push so long as officials
didn’t directly target a weaker yen.  Japanese Defense  Japanese policy makers have already launched their defense
against criticism that they are driving down the yen. Mitsuhiro Furusawa, the vice-finance minister for international affairs,
said in an April 12 interview that Japanese monetary policy is
“clearly aimed at getting Japan out of deflation” and that
officials will “properly explain” their position in Washington.  In another indication officials want to head off attacks,
Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda last week indicated
limits to easing by saying April 10 that the central bank has
taken all “necessary” and “possible” measures.  Such arguments may be enough to offset criticism,
especially given economies from the U.S. to the U.K. have
carried out similar quantitative easing programs.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in London on
March 25 that low  interest rates  in advanced nations benefit the
world economy without creating a disruptive diversion of trade
through weaker currencies.  ‘Red Light’  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said at the  Bloomberg
Australia Economic Summit  in Sydney on April 10 that while
monetary expansion can push a currency down “that doesn’t mean
it’s manipulation.”  While a weaker yen helps Japanese exporters such as Sony
Corp., which gets 70 percent of its revenue outside the country,
and boosts repatriated earnings, an excessive decline could
swell import costs and fuel trade tensions at a time of weak
global growth.  South Korea Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok last month urged
the G-20 to revisit the currency issue and said the yen is
“flashing a red light” for his country’s exports.  While the yen rose after the release of the Treasury’s
report, Steven Englander, a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc.
in New York, said it’s unlikely to trigger extended yen buying.
The report is not a major policy document and its comments are
“not particularly critical” of Japan, he said in an e-mail to
clients.  In its report, the Treasury also declined to name China a
manipulator while saying that the  yuan  “remains significantly
undervalued.” The U.S. said it will press China for policy
changes and greater exchange-rate flexibility.  The G-20 officials meet on April 18 and April 19 in
Washington ahead of weekend talks of the  International Monetary
Fund  and  World Bank . Weakness in the world economy, Europe’s
ongoing debt crisis and the  U.S. budget deficit  are other likely
topics for debate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  