-- Japan Trade Deal May Revive Globalization
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-14T22:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/japan-trade-deal-may-revive-globalization.html
The U.S. and  Japan   agreed to terms 
last week allowing Japan to join talks on the  Trans-Pacific
Partnership , another step toward creating the world’s most
important free-trade initiative. The emerging pact has far-
reaching implications for domestic policy in Japan and
elsewhere, and could offer a new approach to global as well as
regional trade liberalization.  Japan’s participation would widen the  TPP  to 12 members,
accounting for 40 percent of global gross domestic product. The
Japanese economy is bigger than all the other non-U.S. members
combined. By taking part, Japan is making a commitment to long-
overdue domestic economic change. Supply-side reform is one of
the “three arrows” Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has promised will
revive Japan’s stagnant economy (the others are monetary
stimulus and fiscal expansion). In the long term, it’s the one
that matters most -- and it’s the one that the TPP can provide.  Abe deserves much credit for pressing this part of his
program so determinedly. Special interests, especially farming,
have supported protectionism in Japan for years. (Rice farmers
are shielded by tariffs approaching 800 percent.) The TPP will
mobilize Japan’s manufacturing exporters, which will gain
directly from the deal, as a countervailing political force.  Farmer Resistance  According to the  government’s estimate , annual farm and
marine production might decline by 3 trillion yen ($30.3
billion) under the TPP, though other sectors would expand more
than twice as much, raising aggregate GDP by 3.2 trillion yen.
That’s probably an underestimate, because the benefits would
build over time. One independent  study  puts Japan’s potential
gain at more than $100 billion a year (2 percent of GDP) by
2025.  The proposed agreement matters at least as much for its
ambition as for its breadth. Sensitive sectors such as
agriculture will (inevitably) end up retaining some of their
protections -- but they haven’t been excluded from the agenda at
the outset, which is notable in itself. The aim is to go deeper
than existing regional trade pacts and forge agreements on
competition policy, public procurement, state-owned enterprises,
foreign investment and intellectual property.  A bonus is that such a deal could revive the moribund World
Trade Organization by offering a template for a new phase of
liberalization that could be extended worldwide. Or, failing
that, an outward-looking TPP could gradually take in more
members across the Asia-Pacific region and beyond. That dynamic
has been part of the effort from the start. The talks began as
an initiative of just four countries -- Brunei,  Chile , New
Zealand and  Singapore  -- then expanded in stages to today’s
presumed 12. South Korea is considering joining, and the
addition of Japan may push  Indonesia , the  Philippines  and
 Thailand  to think about it, too.  This could be the new model: instead of periodic fits and
starts of reform through the WTO, a steady process of
“competitive liberalization” for which expanding groups of like-
minded trade-reformers provide the core. With the Doha Round
stalled, and protectionism on the rise in many countries because
of high unemployment and slow growth, it’s well worth trying a
new strategy.  Japan’s participation isn’t quite a done deal. All the TPP
members have to agree to it -- but last week’s bilateral
agreement with the U.S. clears the way. The four countries that
haven’t yet said yes ( Australia ,  Canada , New Zealand and  Peru )
aren’t expected to block the move. The U.S. Congress will get 90
days to review the terms. There’s some skepticism on Capitol
Hill about Japan’s intentions, but probably not enough to alter
the outcome.  The TPP is gathering momentum, and that’s good news for
Japan, the U.S. and the world economy.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 