-- Justin Trudeau Wins Canada Liberal Party Leadership Race
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-04-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/justin-trudeau-wins-canada-liberal-party-leadership-race.html
Justin Trudeau, the eldest son of
former Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, won the leadership of
 Canada ’s Liberal Party that his father led for more than 16
years.  Trudeau, 41, received more than 80 percent of the points
available to candidates in the leadership race under a formula
that gave each riding an equal weighting, according to results
released yesterday in Ottawa by the party. Voting by members and
party supporters was done online over the past week.  “We have won nothing more and nothing less than the
opportunity to work even harder,” Trudeau told party supporters
in Ottawa after the results were announced, “to prove ourselves
worthy of leading this great country.”  Trudeau, who will try to rebuild the Liberals following the
party’s worst-ever showings in the last two elections, is
beginning his tenure with his party holding first place in voter
opinion polling for the first time since at least 2009.  “It is too early to tell whether this increase in Liberal
support is the new trend or a direct result of the focus on the
Liberal leadership race,”  Nik Nanos , president of Ottawa-based
Nanos Research, said in a Bloomberg News interview.  A poll by Nanos Research released April 12 found the
Liberals with the support of 35.4 percent of voters, compared
with 31.3 percent for the governing Conservatives.  The online  poll  of 1,002 Canadians taken between April 4
and April 8 showed support for the Liberals has come at the
expense of both the Conservatives and the pro-labor New
Democratic Party, which is the largest opposition party in the
House of Commons. In January, the Conservatives had the support
of 34.3 percent of voters, compared with 27.6 percent for the
Liberals. The NDP has fallen to 23.6 percent from 27.1 percent
in January, according to Nanos.  Undecided Voters  Trudeau has also been able to attract support of undecided
voters, who have fallen to 11.2 percent of those polled in the
Nanos survey this month, from 28.3 in February.  The new leader “has serious threats from the left and the
right,” Nanos said. “Justin Trudeau has two credible opponents
on both sides of the political spectrum both of whom want to eat
his lunch.”  The Liberals, once dubbed Canada’s natural governing party
because they won 21 of 31 elections between 1896 and 2004, saw
their seat total and share of the vote in 2011 elections -- 19
percent -- fall to the lowest since Canada was founded in 1867.  The challenge for Trudeau will be to translate his
leadership win into building an organization that can face off
against the more campaign-ready Conservatives and NDP, said
Robin Sears, a consultant at government relations firm
Earnscliffe Strategy Group who has run campaigns for the NDP.  Organization Needed  “The degree to which the Liberals are able to create a
campaign organization that allows them to benefit from the glow,
as far as one can say Justin has generated for them, and turn
into seats, is a bit questionable in my mind,” Sears said.  In a speech yesterday, Trudeau called on the party to
become more united after years of divisions between different
factions.  “Canadians turned away from us because we turned away from
them, because Liberals became more focused on fighting with each
other than fighting for Canadians,” Trudeau said.  He also said will have clear platform in time for the next
election in 2015.  Trudeau was  criticized  by other Liberal leadership
candidates for running a campaign short on policy, and will be
pressured now to provide more detailed ideas that will open him
up to attacks from the other parties, Sears said.  “He really has to actually articulate some policy
positions and defend it, and that remains to be seen,” Sears
said.  Last Name  The governing Conservative Party issued a statement after
the results were announced, claiming Trudeau lacks experience.  “Justin Trudeau may have a famous last name, but in a time
of global economic uncertainty, he doesn’t have the judgment or
experience to be prime minister,” Conservative spokesman Fred
DeLorey said in the statement.  Trudeau’s  father  had two stints as prime minister: between
1968 and 1979, and from 1980 to 1984.  Justin Trudeau was born in 1971 while his father was prime
minister. He taught high school in  Vancouver  after graduating
with degrees from  Montreal ’s McGill University and the
University of British Columbia. Trudeau ran for office in 2008,
where he won election in the central Montreal district of
Papineau, defeating an incumbent candidate from the separatist
Bloc Quebecois party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  