-- Kerry Wraps Asia Tour Inviting North Korea to Nuclear Talks
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-04-15T01:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/kerry-wraps-asia-tour-inviting-north-korea-back-to-nuclear-talks.html
Secretary of State John Kerry ended
his Asian tour with an agreement to work with  China , Japan and
South Korea to lure North Korea back into nuclear talks. He also
left the door open for a U.S. meeting with a volatile dictator
who is raising tensions in the Pacific region.  “We’re prepared to reach out,” Kerry told a group of
reporters traveling with him in Tokyo yesterday. Any meeting
with Kim Jong Un’s government would have to be at the
“appropriate moment, appropriate circumstance.”  Kerry devoted his first foray in Asia as the top U.S.
diplomat to calming tensions on the Korean peninsula, an effort
that has gained some momentum after China agreed to join the
U.S. in outlining a road map toward a resolution.  Starting in Seoul and ending in  Tokyo , Kerry’s mission was
geared toward resurrecting nuclear talks with North Korea that
collapsed four years ago. Kerry remained guarded on details and
frequently evoked the need for “quiet” diplomacy -- a
leitmotif in a trip that also saw him attempt to revive Mideast
peace talks -- in order to be effective in breaking recalcitrant
positions.  “I can see a way forward,” Kerry explained. “It requires
different pieces to fall together.”  Kerry cited President Richard Nixon’s historic trip to
China in 1972 as an example of the need to keep back-door
maneuvers secret to give space for negotiations to pay off. In
his private dealings with China, Kerry said he would keep his
cards close to his chest.  ‘Subtlety, Secrecy’  “Subtlety and definite secrecy and absence of
advertisement” are needed in some diplomacy, the former U.S
senator and Vietnam War veteran said.  “The main course of events has turned to beginning
talks,” said Kim Yong Hyun, a North Korean studies professor at
Dongguk University in  Seoul . Kim predicted that a dialogue with
North Korea may start in two to three weeks and cautioned there
is a “possibility North Korea will show armed protest one last
time next week.”  Diplomats are now focused on whether the Communist regime
will commemorate April 15 -- the 101st anniversary of state
founder Kim Il Sung’s birth -- with the test-launch of a missile
that may be a threat to Japan or even Guam. The region has been
on edge since February, when North Korea detonated an atomic
bomb in defiance of the United Nations Security Council.  “The tedious back-and-forth will go on for quite some time
as North Korea will not accept these offers easily,” Dong Yong
Sueng, senior fellow at Samsung Economic Research Institute,
said in an interview.  Open Doors  Kerry flew to China,  Japan  and South Korea at a time when
new leaders, all born around the same time and all second or
third-generation politicians, have come to power in the three
countries.  That gave Kerry a potential opening to chart a new course.
On the eve of his April 11 arrival in Seoul, South Korean
President Park Geun Hye had invited North Korea to resume a
conversation. In Tokyo, Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida said
Japan hadn’t shut the door on North Korea and looked to “China
to play its role.”  At a speech today in Tokyo, Kerry said the governments of
all three countries he had visited are united with the U.S. in
restraining Kim’s regime.  “There can be no confusion on this point,” he said at the
Tokyo Institute of Technology. “The North’s dangerous nuclear
missile program threatens not only North Korea’s neighbors, but
also its own people. The United States remains open to authentic
and credible negotiations on denuclearization, but the burden is
on Pyongyang.”  ‘Empty Shell’  For all these diplomatic entreaties, North Korea still
spurns overtures by its southern neighbor as “empty shell”
efforts without content, reported the Korean Central News
Agency, the regime’s vehicle to communicate with the world.  To improve the chance of success in dealing with North
Korea, the U.S. looks to China to use its influence as the
regime’s biggest trading partner.  Looking to put a show of unity on display, Kerry stood next
to China’s foreign policy chief, Yang Jiechi, as the men pledged
to work together to persuade North Korea to abandon its nuclear
pursuits. China’s unusual decision to have a top official seen
speaking publicly next to a U.S. official was read by Kerry as a
sign China is frustrated with an erratic Communist ally.  “If the Chinese came to us and said, ‘Look, here is what
we have cooking and so forth,’ I am not going to tell you today
I am going to shut the door on something that is logical or has
a chance of success,” Kerry said yesterday. The U.S. had been
involved in six-party talks with North Korea that included South
Korea, China, Japan and  Russia .  China’s Commitment  Kerry today welcomed “China’s strong statement of its
commitment to denuclearization of the Korean peninsula,” adding
that the world benefits from a stable and prosperous China that
“respects the will of its people” and “also plays by the
rules.”  The coming together of the U.S. and China, economic rivals
frequently at odds on foreign policy, has more to do with
coaxing North Korea to return to the table than it involves
piling on pressure, according to Yang Moo Jin, a professor at
the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul.  “China is firmly committed to upholding peace and
stability and advancing the denuclearization process on the
Korean peninsula,” Yang Jiechi said late April 13 in translated
comments while accompanied by Kerry at Beijing’s Diaoyutai State
Guest House, site of Nixon’s visit. “The issue should be
handled and resolved peacefully through dialogue.”  Less Optimistic  Some China specialists in the U.S. government are less than
optimistic about China’s readiness to pressure a longtime ally
to abandon its nuclear weapons program without substantial
American concessions, such as agreeing not to position nuclear
weapons-capable ships or planes within range of North Korea. The
specialists spoke on the condition of anonymity because they
have access to classified materials.  If such conditions are how China sees “denuclearization,”
one official said, it’s hard to see any path toward an agreement
because the U.S. is capable of hitting North Korea with
submarines, and with bombers based as far away as  Missouri .  Other U.S. specialists, who agreed to discuss Kerry’s trip
on condition of anonymity because they aren’t authorized to
speak publicly, expressed more optimism because China’s
interests in stability and economic growth outweigh ideological
solidarity with a North Korean ruler they don’t consider as
predictable as his father and grandfather. Similar shifts in
China’s interests were the opening for diplomacy by Henry
Kissinger and Nixon four decades ago.  Little Indication  For now, the Chinese have given little indication they are
willing to bend to U.S. calls, however subtly put, to implement
UN sanctions on North Korea by cutting off the flow of fuel and
luxury goods to the country.  “China is firmly committed to upholding peace and
stability and advancing the denuclearization process on the
Korean peninsula,” Yang said while he sat next to Kerry. “The
issue should be handled and resolved peacefully through
dialogue.”  That is not to say China’s words won’t reach the ears of
Kim Jong Un, who took over in North Korea in December 2011 after
his father died.  “North Korea won’t take South Korea’s offer to talk, and
the U.S. and China’s efforts for a peaceful solution, lightly,”
South Korean professor Yang said in an interview. “As a first
step, I expect talks between North and South to resume on
normalizing Gaeseong,” a jointly run industrial park.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in London at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  