-- N. Korea Attack Would Disrupt U.S. Companies: BGOV
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d
-- 2013-04-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/n-korea-attack-would-disrupt-u-s-companies-bgov.html
A North Korean military attack
would pose a risk to sales and investment in  South Korea  by U.S.
companies, including those in the automotive and semiconductor
industries, according to a Bloomberg Government study.  U.S. imports of goods produced in South Korea, including
vehicles and smartphones, may also be disrupted, at least
temporarily, in the event of an attack by the totalitarian
regime led by Kim Jong Un, according to the study by Ken Monahan, a senior global business analyst with BGOV.  Tensions on the Korean peninsula have heightened since
February, when  North Korea  ran an underground nuclear-weapon
test in defiance of United Nations Security Council resolutions.
Kim’s regime has threatened war against the U.S. and South Korea
over UN sanctions enacted after the Feb. 12 blast.  The crisis has weighed on South Korean shares, with the
benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI)   falling  1.3 percent on April 12, the most
in a week, as offshore investors sold equities on concern that
profit at builders and shipyards will slump and tensions with
the Kim regime may escalate.  South Korea is the seventh-largest U.S. trade partner for
goods and services, with transactions valued at $134 billion
last year, according to the BGOV study. In 2011, Americans
invested $31.8 billion in South Korea, compared with $18.4
billion by South Koreans in the U.S.  Employee Safety  The situation has implications for American companies with
operations in South Korea.  General Motors Co. (GM)  is “making
contingency plans for the safety of our employees” in the
country to the extent that it can, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said in an interview aired April 4 by CNBC.  GM has five plants in South Korea, where it builds 145,000
vehicles for domestic sales and 1.3 million for export, Akerson
said. The company had $8.91 billion in 2012 sales in the
country, the most among U.S.-based publicly traded companies
with a market value of $1 billion or more, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Detroit-based automaker was followed by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,
the San Diego-based seller of semiconductors for mobile
telephones, with $4.2 billion in sales in South Korea, and
 National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , the Houston-based maker of oilfield
equipment, with $3.12 billion.  President Park Geun Hye pledged last week to ensure a
“stable environment” for international investors to operate in
South Korea without worry about provocations from her country’s
northern neighbor.  Constant Threat  “South Korea has achieved remarkable economic growth and
democratization over the past 60 years under constant North
Korean threats,” Park said during an April 11 luncheon with
representatives from companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and eBay
Inc., according to a statement from the president’s office.  With the Kim regime preparing for a possible missile test,
perhaps as soon as tomorrow, U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
met with his South Korean counterpart, Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se, April 12 to discuss escalating tensions in the region.  North Korea may conduct a weapons test to coincide with
tomorrow’s 101st anniversary of the birth of Kim’s grandfather,
state founder  Kim Il Sung , South Korean Defense Ministry
spokesman Kim Min Seok said April 11 in  Seoul . North Korea fired
a long-range missile that disintegrated shortly after liftoff on
April 13, 2012, then successfully launched one in December.  The U.S. reaffirmed yesterday that it will defend South
Korea from its northern neighbor’s “unacceptable provocations”
and “dangerous” nuclear and missile programs, according to a
joint statement with the Park government.  Both countries, whose alliance dates to the 1953 armistice
that ended the  Korean War , said they were taking “prudent
measures” in the wake of North Korea’s belligerence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Shepard in Washington at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  