-- Obama Budget Cuts Set to Squeeze Infosys’ Sales: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-04-15T11:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/obama-budget-cuts-set-to-squeeze-infosys-sales-corporate-india.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , the Indian  software
developer  which plunged last week after forecasting sales that
lagged estimates, may struggle to win clients as U.S. President
 Barack Obama ’s $85 billion in spending cuts prompts companies to
rein in spending.  Fifteen percent of prospective contracts for Infosys were
canceled in the year ended March 31 as customers reduced
discretionary spending for “rainy day regulations,” said Ashok Vemuri, head of Americas at the Bangalore-based company. U.S.
budget cuts in manufacturing and financial services may prompt
companies in those industries to reduce investment in
 information technology  products, he said.  Infosys,  India ’s second-largest provider of IT services,
made 62 percent of its  revenue  in  North America  last fiscal
year. The reductions in Obama’s budget, which undercut his push
to increase funding for research, education and infrastructure,
may mean Infosys’ sales will lag behind their estimate,
according to Harit Shah, an analyst with Nirmal Bang Equities
Pvt. in Mumbai.  “We will start to see these cuts in bits and pieces over
the next couple of quarters as they trickle down to industry,”
Vemuri said in a phone interview from Bangalore. “The symptom
of that is the number of deals that die before they come to the
table has gone up because companies are saving cash piles to
cover new regulation.”  Sales Forecast  Infosys’ shares fell 21 percent, the biggest slump in a
decade, on April 12 after saying revenue in the year that
started April 1 will  grow  6 percent to 10 percent. The drop made
Infosys the worst-performing stock in the 1000-company  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. (MXAP)  The company’s American depositary receipts lost
21 percent in  New York .  The company’s stock gained 1.9 percent to 2,339.05 rupees
in Mumbai after dropping as much as 4 percent. The S&P BSE
Sensex rose 0.6 percent.  The company forecast for sales growth was less than the
median 13 percent estimated by 66 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Indian information technology industry body Nasscom
said sector sales may rise 12 percent to 14 percent in the year
to March 31.  The company’s earnings  margin  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the three months ended March 31
narrowed to 26.5 percent, according to Batlivala & Karani
Securities Pvt. That’s the lowest since at least 2005, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Infosys is “a good company but unfortunately demand for
its services isn’t just picking up,” Gary Greenberg, a  fund
manager  at Hermes Fund Managers Ltd., said in an interview to
Bloomberg TV. “Infosys is trying to make a transition to
becoming a consultancy company but that’s harder than it looks.
We happily don’t own Infosys.”  Option Contracts  Volumes in Infosys’ put options in India jumped to 313,902
contracts on April 12 from 125,421 a day earlier. They fell to
124,711 contracts today. Puts give the right to sell a security
for a certain amount, called the strike price, by a given date.
Volume of calls, which convey the right to buy, were at 161,752.  Chief Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal didn’t provide an
earnings-per0-share forecast, saying the “unknowns are
substantial.” Shibulal and six colleagues started the company
after borrowing $250 from their wives in 1981.  “There’s a chance that they could miss their next
guidance, but as the CEO said, there are too many variables that
remain unclear to really predict what’s going to happen,” said
Nirmal Bang’s Shah. “The confidence in this company has clearly
gone for a toss.”  Defense Contractors  President Obama signed the $984 billion government funding
bill into law on March 27, locking in spending cuts for
research, education and infrastructure. Obama unveiled a $3.78
trillion fiscal year 2014 budget on April 10 that would end the
sequester cuts. That may not reduce the “detrimental impact on
spending,” Infosys’ Vemuri said.  “Sequestration has already had an impact on IT services
here in the U.S.,” said Washington D.C.-based Bloomberg
Government analyst Afzal Bari. “The federal government gives a
lot of money to states for Medicaid systems and that money is
subject to cuts. States often hire Indian outsourcing companies
for those projects.”  Obama’s budget may reduce spending on information
technology by $2.5 billion by 2015, according to Bloomberg
Industries’ Anurag Rana. Companies including  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC) ,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest defense
contractor, and  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  may be affected, Rana said.  Manufacturing companies including defense contractors and
aircraft makers accounted for 22 percent of Infosys’ revenue in
the three months ended March 31, while banking, financial
services and insurance contributed 34 percent.  Tata Consultancy  Sequestration may also hurt Infosys’ rivals including  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,  Asia ’s biggest software developer by
market value, and  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT) , Nirmal Bang’s Shah
said.  Tata Consultancy Chief Executive Officer Natarajan Chandrasekaran and HCL Technologies Chief Financial Officer
Sandeep Kanwar said their companies haven’t been affected by the
U.S. budget cuts.  Tata Consultancy on April 17 may say  profit  increased 10
percent to 36.1 billion rupees from 29.3 billion in the quarter
ended March 2012, according to Bloomberg’s survey of 38
analysts. Net income rose 23 percent in the preceding three
months, while Infosys reported a 0.1 percent drop.  Spending on information technology services worldwide is
estimated to climb 4.5 percent this year, faster than in 2012,
Gartner Inc. said on March 28. An economic revival in North
America may help boost sales at software developers.  U.S. Economy  Morgan Stanley’s chief U.S. economist  Vincent Reinhart  sees
a 3 percent pace of growth for the world’s biggest economy in
the quarter ending in June, up from 0.08 percent in December.  Top information technology service providers are predicted
to post “double-digit” growth as a recovery in the U.S. and in
financial services stokes demand, according to Rana.  Infosys, “as indicated by a dismal topline growth
guidance, continues to struggle competitively, including win
rates and project ramp-ups,” Moshe Katri and Avishai Kantor,
analysts at New York-based Cowen & Co. said in a note to clients
on April 12. “We believe Infosys’ issues continue to be
company-specific rather than industry-specific.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  