-- Modi’s Bid to Lead Indian Bloc Snubbed by BJP’s Ally
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-04-14T14:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/modi-s-bid-to-lead-indian-bloc-snubbed-by-bjp-s-ally.html
The largest ally of  India ’s Hindu
nationalist  Bharatiya Janata Party  said the prime ministerial
candidate of their coalition should have a secular image, a call
that may weaken a bid by the BJP’s Narendra Modi to lead the
opposition bloc into the next elections.  The Janata Dal (United), which has 20 seats in the 545-
member lower house of parliament and rules the eastern state of
Bihar, also said the BJP should declare its choice for premier
by the end of the year. The comments came today in a resolution
after a meeting of its national executive in  New Delhi . Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s term ends in May 2014.  “Only a person who can carry with him all the diverse
sections of people can become the leader of the nation,” said
Nitish Kumar, a Janata Dal (United) leader who is among senior
party figures opposing a Modi candidacy. “Some people think
they will create a wave and people will accept it,” he told
party members during the session.  The socialist Janata Dal is a part of the BJP-led National
Democratic Alliance. Coalition leaders such as Kumar, chief
minister of Bihar, have expressed concern that the nomination of
Modi may anger Muslims who accuse him of failing to stop riots
that targeted their community in 2002 in Gujarat state, which
Modi governs. More than 1,000 people died in the violence, most
of them Muslims.  Ignoring the Janata Dal would put the BJP at risk of
alienating an ally as it tries to end a decade in opposition.
Other regional parties may rally behind Kumar.  No Support  “With this, Janata Dal has made it clear that they won’t
support Modi’s candidature,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of
the New Delhi-based Centre for Media Studies. “Now, the BJP
will move cautiously.” Today’s development is an indication
that in the elections the regional parties will dictate the
terms for any possible alliance, said Rao.  About 16 percent of Bihar’s population is Muslim, more than
the national average of 13 percent. The Janata Dal governs Bihar
with the BJP as its junior partner.  Modi was elevated to the BJP’s highest decision-making body
this month, bolstering his stature amid jockeying to lead the
party into the parliamentary polls. Modi’s third consecutive
election victory in Gujarat, last year, and his high opinion-
poll ratings have made him a favorite among party members.  Rahul Gandhi , scion of the Nehru-Gandhi family, will take
Singh’s Indian National Congress into the elections, although
the party has yet to formally declare its choice for prime
minister in the event of a victory by the ruling alliance that
it leads. Gandhi, son of the Congress President  Sonia Gandhi  and
assassinated Prime Minister  Rajiv Gandhi , was appointed as his
party’s vice president in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  