-- Toomey Says He Expects Senate Vote on Gun Legislation This Week
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-04-14T16:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/toomey-says-he-expects-senate-vote-on-gun-legislation-this-week.html
Senator  Pat Toomey  said today that
the  U.S. Senate  is likely to vote this week on a compromise
provision that would expand background checks for gun
purchasers.  “We expect a vote this week,” the Republican from
Pennsylvania said on CNN’s “ State Of The Union ” program.
“It’s not certain as to exactly when. I think Wednesday’s
probably the most likely day for a vote.”  Toomey and Democratic Senator  Joe Manchin  of  West Virginia 
crafted legislation that would require background checks for
firearms sales over the Internet and between private parties at
gun shows. Noncommercial person-to-person firearms sales
wouldn’t be covered, a tradeoff Democrats made to win Republican
support.  The Senate on April 11 voted to advance a scaled-back
version of the gun-safety agenda President  Barack Obama  proposed
after the shootings of 20 children and six adults at an
elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut.  Manchin and Toomey plan to offer their provision as an
amendment to the underlying bill, Toomey said. On CBS’ “Face
the Nation,” Manchin said that he and Toomey would tomorrow
begin going through the provision “line by line, section by
section” on the floor of the Senate to make their case.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from New York, said
that the amendment faces a “hard road” to adoption in the
Senate, where controversial legislation requires a super-
majority of 60 votes in the 100-member chamber.  ‘Tough Fight’  “Not all of the Republicans who voted to allow debate are
going to vote with us on background checks,” Schumer said on
ABC’s “This Week.” “So, it’s going to be a tough fight to
even get the 60 votes we need for the Manchin-Toomey proposal.”  Schumer, the third-ranking Senate Democrat, said the “key
battle is with a handful of Republicans” who have not committed
to the Manchin-Toomey legislation and got a top rating from the
 National Rifle Association .  Even if the Senate passes a gun measure, it would encounter
stiff opposition in the House, where Republican leaders haven’t
even committed to taking up gun legislation.  The NRA is the nation’s largest gun-rights lobby, and the
Fairfax, Virginia-based nonprofit organization says it has 4
million members.  Illinois Democrat  Dick Durbin , the Senate majority whip,
said he didn’t know if there were enough votes to pass the
legislation.  “We haven’t whipped it,” Durbin said on “Fox News
Sunday.” “When it gets down to it, we’ve got to ask the basic
question, should we try to keep guns out of the hands of felons
and people so mentally unstable they shouldn’t own a firearm? If
the answer is yes, Manchin-Toomey is a step in that direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  