-- Housing Construction Probably Advanced: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-04-14T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/housing-construction-probably-advanced-u-s-economy-preview.html
Builders probably began work on
U.S. homes in March at the second-fastest pace in almost five
years, a sign one of the bright spots of the expansion is making
further progress, economists said before reports this week.  Housing starts increased to a 930,000 annualized rate from
a 917,000 pace in February, according to the median  estimate  of
63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before an April 16 report
from the Commerce Department. Figures from the Federal Reserve
the same day may show industrial production rose in March.  The housing recovery is fanning out to other areas of the
economy, underpinning orders at manufacturers such as  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)  Mortgage rates are hovering close to all-time
lows as a lack of inflation allows the Fed to pursue record
monetary stimulus.  “The economy is in much better shape, and that’s helped by
housing,” said Steve Blitz, chief economist at ITG Investment
Research Inc. in New York.  A rebound in home construction may generate as many as
500,000 jobs in 2013 and 700,000 in 2014, including related
services, according to Russell Price, a senior economist at
Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit . Residential investment
could bolster U.S. economic growth by 0.5 percentage point this
year,  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York, estimated in an April 10 note to clients.  A projected increase in building permits shows the pace of
construction will continue. Applications to build a home
increased last month to a 943,000 annualized rate, exceeding the
pace of starts, from 939,000 in February, according to the
median projection in a Bloomberg survey.  Housing Starts  Builders  began work  on 780,000 homes in 2012, a 28 percent
increase from the prior year and the third straight annual gain.
Even with the improvements, starts are short of the 2.1 million
in 2005 at the peak of the boom, which was a three-decade high.  “The momentum from the housing rebound during 2012 has
remained strong in the early months of 2013,” John Stumpf,
president and chief executive officer at Wells Fargo & Co., said
on an April 12 earnings call. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo
funded one in four U.S. mortgages in 2012. “Our near-term
outlook is for steady gains in home sales, building activity,
and price appreciation. Housing affordability remains
excellent.”  Adding to evidence of a healthier real-estate market, a
report tomorrow from the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo may show builders gained confidence in
April.  Spilling Over  Demand for building materials, along with gains in spending
on new equipment by U.S. companies, is helping underpin
manufacturing.  “The market in the U.S. is more robust than the GDP
figures will suggest,” Pedro Baranda, president of the Otis
Elevator unit of United Technologies, said during a March 14
analyst meeting. “There’s strong commercial business coming
back. This housing recovery right now appears to be driven by
multi-property development aimed at the rental market,” which
boosts demand for elevators, he said.  Industrial production probably rose 0.2 percent last month,
according to the median estimate of economists before the Fed’s
report. Manufacturing, which makes up 75 percent of total
output, gained 0.1 percent after a 0.8 percent in February.  The forecast indicates a pause in the recent momentum for
manufacturing as companies slowed the pace of inventory
accumulation and consumers pulled back.  Sales Drop  Retail sales  declined in March by the most in nine months
as employment slowed, showing  household spending  ended the first
quarter on softer footing, according to figures from the
Commerce Department on April 12. The 0.4 percent decrease, the
biggest since June, followed a 1 percent gain in February.
Department stores and electronics dealers were among the weakest
showings.  Another report this week is projected to show cheaper
gasoline prices are limiting inflation, which will help keep
consumer spending from faltering. Economists forecast the
consumer-price index was little changed in March after a 0.7
percent gain in February. The average cost of a gallon of gas
 fell  in March for the first time since AAA, the nation’s largest
auto group, began tracking the data in 2004.  The cost of living rose 1.6 percent over the past 12
months, down from a 2 percent gain in the year ended February,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed.  Subdued gains in the cost of living are allowing central
bank officials to keep stimulating the economy. Fed policy
makers, who are pressing on with $85 billion in monthly bond
buying until the labor-market outlook has “improved
substantially,” aim for a long-run goal of 2 percent inflation.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  