-- Poland Rate Cut May Come in June at Earliest, Glapinski Says
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-04-15T13:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/poland-rate-cut-should-come-in-june-at-earliest-glapinski-says.html
Poland ’s central bank should wait
until June at the earliest before potentially resuming  interest-
rate  cuts because it needs to “better assess” the prospects
for economic recovery, according to policy maker  Adam Glapinski .  The 10 members of the Monetary Policy Council “are split”
and they lack consensus on whether the pause in monetary easing
should “last a quarter,” he said in an interview on April 12.  Policy makers last week left their benchmark seven-day rate
unchanged at 3.25 percent for the first time in five months as
they expect record-low borrowing costs will reinvigorate the
European Union’s largest eastern economy. While the central bank
projects a “gradual” recovery, recent reports showed a
contraction in manufacturing deepened last month, while  retail
sales  fell in February and  unemployment  rose to a six-year high.  “The pause before we potentially move to another cycle of
rate cuts should last at least a quarter, ideally until June or
even July,” Glapinski said. “ Interest rates  are already at
historic lows and cutting them further would be an
unconventional step.”  The zloty traded 0.2 percent weaker against the euro at
4.1098 per euro at 3 p.m. in Warsaw. The currency has lost 0.6
percent to the euro since the start of the year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Belka’s Comments  Glapinski’s remarks echoed comments from Governor  Marek Belka , who told reporters on April 10 that deciding on further
rate reductions becomes “difficult” as borrowing costs
approach a level where “monetary policy stops being
conventional.”  Still, “some correction of the current rate level isn’t
excluded,” MPC member Elzbieta Chojna-Duch was quoted as saying
today in an interview with PAP newswire. Polish rates remain
“moderately high” compared with other countries and the MPC
may conduct a “binding assessment” of the economy that could
be basis for further rate cuts before July, she was cited by PAP
as saying.  The central bank may be emboldened to act if inflation
drops “even further below” 1.5 percent, the lower end of its
tolerance range, Glapinski said. Price growth slowed to 1
percent in March from a year earlier, after a 1.3 percent gain
in the previous month, the Statistics Office said in Warsaw
today. Economists had forecast a rate of 1.1 percent, according
to the median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .  Longer Trajectory  “The March inflation data are important, but it’s worth
looking at the longer trajectory through mid-year,” Glapinski
said. “We need to think hard before taking unconventional
action.”  Easing could also be triggered by “very weak data”
showing that the economic downturn is deepening instead of
flattening out, the rate setter said. “I prefer a conventional
approach: finish a round of cuts, assess what’s happening in the
economy, and then decide about further cuts.”  Glapinski’s comments show potential rate cuts will be
“data-driven decisions,” Jaroslaw Janecki, Warsaw-based chief
economist at Societe Generale SA, wrote in an e-mailed report.  Derivatives traders are betting that policy makers will
resume monetary easing by July and reduce borrowing costs by
another half a percentage point by the end of the year, forward-
rate agreement prices show.  ‘Get Moving’  Poland’s central bank has delivered five rate cuts since
November in a bid to stave off the country’s deepest slowdown in
12 years. While the bank’s March staff projections call for
domestic demand to recover, doubling economic growth to 2.6
percent next year, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said this month that risks remain on the downside for the euro
area. Poland sends 52 percent of its exports to 17-nation
currency region.  “The key question that we need to answer is whether the
economy has a chance to get moving in the second half,”
Glapinski said. “Nobody is able to forecast that at this stage.
The performance of the German economy and whether the recovery
will start there will certainly be key.”  The government has blamed the Narodowy Bank Polski, which
was the only EU central bank to raise interest rates last year,
for worsening the economic slowdown by starting monetary easing
too late and by reducing rates too little. Borrowing costs can
still be pushed down “quite significantly,” Finance Minister
 Jacek Rostowski  said in Dublin on April 11.  The government is ready to revise this year’s budget if
necessary, Rostowski said last week, after the first-quarter
 budget deficit  widened to 70 percent of the annual limit as the
slowdown curbed  tax revenue .  A potential deficit revision “shouldn’t have an impact on
the MPC’s decisions and the way it runs policy,” Glapinski
said. Poland’s monetary stance “is already sufficiently loose
and the policy mix is appropriate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  