-- Rubio Says Citizenship 10 Years Out Under Immigration Plan
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-04-14T14:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/rubio-says-citizenship-10-years-out-under-immigration-plan-1-.html
It will take at least 10 years for
undocumented workers currently in the U.S. to be able to apply
for citizenship under an immigration plan drafted by a
bipartisan group of senators, Florida Republican Senator Marco Rubio said.  Rubio, speaking on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” today, said
that under the plan such foreigners can apply for temporary work
permits within months of a plan to secure the borders. There are
an estimated 11 million foreigners in the country illegally.  A series of “triggers” must be met before such foreigners
can begin applying for their green cards under the plan,
including tougher border security and the creation of a
nationwide worker verification system. The government also must
create an electronic system to verify if foreigners have
overstayed their visas, Rubio said.  “For those who are undocumented in this country, not only
will they have to wait 10 years -- more than 10 years -- but
they will have to wait until all three of those things are fully
implemented,” Rubio said. “If they’re not fully implemented,
there will be no green cards awarded and we think that will be
an incentive.”  White House  The White House disagrees with senators on the need for
triggers, Rubio said. The difference must be resolved before
immigration reform legislation can be signed into law.  Illegal immigrants will have to pass background checks and
pay fines in order to receive a temporary work permit, then wait
in the provisional status for at least 10 years before they
could apply for green cards, Rubio said.  Appearing on the “Fox News Sunday” program, Rubio
disputed arguments that the plan would give amnesty to
foreigners in the country illegally.  “It will be cheaper, faster and easier for people to go
back home and wait 10 years than it will be to go through this
process that I’ve outlined,” Rubio said “That’s why it’s not
amnesty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  