-- Rutgers Is Making Progress With Lakers’ Jordan, Star-Ledger Says
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-04-15T04:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/rutgers-continues-talks-with-lakers-jordan-star-ledger-says.html
Rutgers University  is getting
closer to hiring Los Angeles Lakers assistant Eddie Jordan as
its men’s basketball coach to replace Mike Rice, the  Star-Ledger 
of Newark, New Jersey, reported.  Jordan and Rutgers’ officials met the past two days and
contractual details are the only obstacles to him being hired,
the paper said, citing two unidentified people familiar with the
situation. Jordan could be officially introduced as the team’s
new coach at the middle of this week, the paper said.  Rice was fired by Rutgers on April 3, a day after video
broadcast on ESPN showed the coach pushing players, hurling
balls at them and yelling expletive-laden homophobic insults.
The scandal also led to the departure of Athletic Director Tim Pernetti, General Counsel John Wolf and assistant basketball
coach Jimmy Martelli.  Rutgers spokesman Jason Baum yesterday declined to comment
in an e-mail.  Jordan, 58, played point guard for the Scarlet Knights from
1973-77, leaving as the school’s career leader in assists and
steals. Jordan was an assistant to Bob Wenzel when Rutgers last
visited the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament,
in 1991.  Jordan secured his first head-coaching role in the  National
Basketball Association  in March 1997 and went 33-64 over two
seasons before being fired by the  Sacramento Kings .  Following four seasons as an assistant with the  New Jersey
Nets , Jordan in 2003 took charge of the Washington Wizards and
led the team to the playoffs four times before being fired in
his sixth season with a 197-224 mark. He spent the 2009-10
season with the  Philadelphia 76ers , when they went 27-55, and
joined the Lakers in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  