-- S. African Grocers Blame Shared Equipment Use for Stray Meat
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-04-14T12:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/s-african-grocers-blame-shared-equipment-use-for-stray-meat.html
Shoprite Holdings Ltd., (SHP)   Africa ’s
biggest retailer, said that unlabeled DNA from goats and other
animals found in grocery meat products in the country is the
result of shared equipment and utensils at processing plants.  The largest portion of mislabeling occurred due to
“accidental cross contamination,” Shoprite Chief Executive
Officer Whitey Basson said in an e-mail to Johannesburg-based
newspaper City Press on April 12. The company sent the statement
to  Bloomberg News  today.  “The screening method did not test for the quantity of
undeclared meat found in affected products, only whether it was
present or absent,” Basson said in the statement.  About 68 percent of 139 samples of meat taken from South
African supermarkets and butcheries in the middle of last year
contained unlabeled traces of donkey, goat or water buffalo, a
study by the University of Stellenbosch found.  “The Stellenbosch study tells us what we already know,
that DNA testing can reveal minute traces of genetic material in
a product,” Tamra Veley, a spokeswoman for  Pick n Pay Holdings
Ltd. ,  South Africa ’s second-largest grocer, said by phone from
 Cape Town . “The internationally recognized threshold is 1
percent. We have commissioned 700 independent scientific tests
on this basis and all have proved negative.”  It isn’t unusual for DNA of other species to be found in
small quantities in meat products because of contact among
animals, Ronel Burger, head of the Consumer Goods Council’s food
safety initiative, said in an e-mailed statement. There is no
threshold, such as in the European Union and U.K., for a
tolerable level of unlabeled DNA in South Africa, she said.  In an e-mail dated April 5 and addressed to Shoprite, Donna
Cawthorn, a researcher at Stellenbosch University, said that
“undeclared species detected were due to cross-contamination
and this was stressed in the publication” of the study.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  