-- Senators Ready to Introduce U.S. Immigration Bill This Week
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-04-14T18:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/senators-ready-to-introduce-u-s-immigration-bill-this-week.html
A bipartisan bill to revamp U.S.
immigration laws, including giving millions of undocumented
immigrants in the country a pathway to citizenship, is expected
to be introduced in the Senate this week, Senator  Charles Schumer  said.  A group of eight senators has resolved “every significant
disagreement” when it comes to  immigration reform , the Democrat
from  New York  said today on ABC’s “This Week” program.  “I think you’ll see a major agreement, that’s balanced but
fair, that will have the widespread support of the American
people, on Tuesday,” said Schumer, one of the group of eight.
“This is a balanced approach that both prevents future waves of
illegal immigration, but has common-sense solutions.”  After being introduced, the bill will be subjected to
hearings and negotiations as lawmakers and President  Barack Obama ’s administration attempt to craft a major overhaul of U.S.
immigration laws for the first time in nearly three decades.  Vermont Senator  Patrick Leahy , the Democratic chairman of
the Senate Judiciary Committee, told reporters last week he
expects to review the proposal at an April 17 hearing.  It will take at least 10 years before undocumented
immigrants currently in the U.S. would be able to apply for
lawful permanent residency -- or a green card -- under the
immigration proposal, Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican,
said on CNN’s “State of the Union.”  There are an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants
in the U.S.  Border Security  A series of “triggers” must be met before they can begin
applying for green cards, including tougher border security and
the creation of a nationwide worker verification system, Rubio
said. The government also must create an electronic system to
verify whether foreigners have overstayed their visas, Rubio
said.  After obtaining a green card, a foreigner must wait at
least three more years before being able to apply for
citizenship.  Rubio appeared on all five Sunday morning talk shows and
has emerged as a leading Senate Republican backing the reform
proposal.  Undocumented immigrants would be granted temporary work
permits to remain in the country for the 10 years before they
could apply for green cards under the plan, Rubio said.  The temporary work permits would be available as soon as
the U.S. Department of  Homeland Security  establishes a plan to
secure the nation’s borders.  Temporary Permit  Undocumented immigrants would have to pass background
checks and pay fines and application fees in order to receive a
temporary work permit, Rubio said. They wouldn’t qualify for
federal benefits, such as welfare, under the temporary permits,
Rubio said.  Appearing on the “Fox News Sunday” program, Rubio
disputed arguments that the plan would give amnesty to
foreigners in the country illegally.  “It will be cheaper, faster and easier for people to go
back home and wait 10 years than it will be to go through this
process that I’ve outlined,” Rubio said. “That’s why it’s not
amnesty.”  Alabama Republican Senator  Jeff Sessions  said on ABC’s
“This Week” that he’s “not convinced” the immigration
proposal is good for the country.  It “will give amnesty now, legalize everyone that’s here
effectively today and then there’s a promise of enforcement in
the future,” said Sessions, the top Republican on the Senate
Budget Committee.  “Even if you pass laws today that appear to be effective,
it doesn’t mean they’re going to be enforced,” Sessions said.  Public Confidence  Texas Republican Senator  John Cornyn  said on “Fox News
Sunday” he would find it difficult to support giving temporary
legal status to those in the country illegally until public
confidence is restored in the government’s ability to secure the
nation’s borders.  The White House disagrees with senators on the need for
enforcement triggers, Rubio said on CNN’s “ State of the
Union .” The difference must be resolved before immigration
reform legislation can be signed into law.  Regardless, Rubio said he’s optimistic the Senate will pass
an immigration reform bill this year.  “If enforcement is not a part of this, and if we don’t
modernize legal immigration, if we don’t do all these things,
then we’re going to be right back here in 10 years having this
conversation all over again,” Rubio said. “And that would be
the worst possible outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  