-- Snedeker, Cabrera Share Masters Lead After Three Rounds
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-14T21:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/snedeker-cabrera-share-masters-lead-after-three-rounds.html
Angel Cabrera  holds a two-shot lead
with seven holes to play on the final day at golf’s  Masters
Tournament .  Cabrera, the 2009 champion from  Argentina , is 8-under par
at Augusta National Golf Club. Australian trio  Adam Scott , Marc Leishman and Jason Day are 6-under par. No Australian has ever
won the title. Tiger Woods is 4-under par through 13 holes.  Day sank a birdie putt at his opening hole and scored eagle
from a sand trap at the second to take a one-shot lead over
Cabrera and Brandt Snedeker, who led after the third round.  Snedeker of the U.S. joined Day at 8-under with a birdie at
the opening hole and Cabrera moved into a three-way tie atop the
leaderboard with a birdie at the par-5 second hole.  Snedeker then fell back with bogeys at the fourth and fifth
holes before making birdie at No. 8, while Cabrera also birdied
the seventh hole.  Snedeker birdied No. 8 to advance to 7-under shortly after
Day had a bogey at No. 9 to drop back to 6-under alongside Scott
and Leishman. Cabrera and Snedeker then both bogeyed the 10th
hole before Snedeker dropped back to 5-under with another error
at No. 11.  Cabrera and Snedeker are in the final pairing, which has
produced the winner in 19 of the past 22 years, though the past
two years have been exceptions. The third-round leader or co-
leader has gone on to win in 41 of the previous 76 Masters
tournaments.  The Masters is the only one of the four major tournaments
that’s never been won by an Australian golfer. While Day tied
for second in 2011,  Greg Norman  was a runner-up three times in
Augusta, most famously in 1996, when he blew a six-shot lead in
the final round and was beaten by  Nick Faldo .  Woods, who has never come from behind during the final
round in his 14 major wins, is seeking his fifth Masters victory
and first major title since 2008.  Tianlang Guan, the 14-year-old Chinese amateur who is the
youngest player in a major golf championship in 148 years, shot
a 3-over 75 today to finish 12-over par for the tournament.  Three-time Masters winner  Phil Mickelson  finished 9-over
after a final-round 73.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta, Georgia at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  