-- U.K. Faces ‘Sluggish’ Economic Growth on Weak European Demand
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-04-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/u-k-faces-sluggish-economic-growth-on-weak-european-demand.html
Britain’s economy will grow less
than previously forecast this year and further bond purchases by
the  Bank of England  may do little to stimulate the recovery,
according to the Ernst & Young Item Club.  Gross domestic product will rise 0.6 percent, compared with
a January forecast of 0.9 percent, the London-based group said
in a report today. Growth will accelerate to 1.9 percent next
year and 2.5 percent in 2015, in line with previous estimates.  “With the rebalancing of the U.K. economy on hold, we’re
once again relying on the consumer to see us through,”  Peter Spencer , chief economic adviser to the Item Club, said in a
statement. “Unless we see a dramatic turnaround in  Europe , U.K.
growth is likely to remain sluggish at best.”  The government’s austerity program and the continuing
recession in the euro area have hurt Britain’s recovery.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  pledged 3.5 billion
pounds ($5.4 billion) in his budget last month to boost the
housing market, while he revamped the Bank of England’s remit to
give it greater flexibility to add to stimulus.  Item said that the fiscal changes were “active and
intelligent,” though it expressed doubt “about the scope for a
more innovative monetary policy.” It forecasts that the BOE’s
bond-purchase target will be raised by 25 billion pounds in both
May and in August, adding that the stimulus is likely to be less
effective than the Funding for Lending Scheme, set up last year
to boost credit.  The Bank of England has already bought 375 billion pounds
of gilts and kept the program unchanged this month.  “There are increasing signs that the ground is being
prepared for further stimulus,” Item said. “However, we feel
that this is unlikely to provide much support.”  Housing Support  The U.K. Treasury said the government “is committed to
building a stronger economy.”  The FLS has “already been a significant factor in the
improvement in the housing market” and the new budget measures
“will support those who are looking to get on or move up the
housing ladder,” it said in a statement.  Osborne’s measures to boost the housing market will likely
help the U.K. avoid another recession, according to Item.  “Although it’s not a long-term strategy, stimulating the
housing market and the high street will keep GDP growth
positive,” Spencer said. “Unbalanced growth is better than no
growth.”  -- Editors: Fergal O’Brien, Craig Stirling  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  