-- U.K. Home Sellers Raise Asking Prices for Fourth Month: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-15T11:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/u-k-home-sellers-raise-prices-for-fourth-month-rightmove-says.html
U.K. home sellers raised asking
prices in April for a fourth consecutive month amid a shortage
of properties for sale, according to  Rightmove Plc. (RMV)   Prices sought rose 2.1 percent from March to an average
244,706 pounds ($376,000), the property-website operator said in
a report published today. In  London , they fell 0.5 percent. U.K.
asking prices increased 6.9 percent in the first four months of
the year and were 0.4 percent higher than a year earlier.  The scarcity of homes on the market is supporting prices
and masking the weakness of demand in many areas as Britain
risks falling into a  third recession  in five years. In his
budget last month, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
pledged 3.5 billion pounds of loans plus 130 billion pounds of
guarantees to spur housebuilding and help people struggling to
afford a home.  “With mass-market buyers still sitting on the sidelines,
the size of the active market is a lot smaller, making it easier
for an upswing in activity to feed through to an upturn in
prices,” said  Miles Shipside , a director at Rightmove. “This
should not be confused with an overall market recovery, as while
spring may be here the ongoing chill of the recession is still
in the air.”  Message Received  The number of properties advertised for sale nationwide
fell 4 percent from a year ago, the report showed.  Sellers in East Anglia led the increase by raising asking
prices by 4.4 percent in April, followed by 3.9 percent gains in
 Wales  and Southwest  England , Rightmove said. In London, sellers
reduced average values sought for the first time this year to
493,635 pounds, though prices remained 6.2 percent higher than a
year ago.  Data from the Council of Mortgage Lenders today showed the
number of home loans fell 0.8 percent to 37,900 in February from
the previous month. Still, it was up 4.7 percent from a year
earlier.  In a separate report, Ernst & Young’s Item Club said the
government has “got the message,” noting the measures to help
the mortgage market announced by Osborne in his March 20 budget.
They follow the Funding for Lending Scheme, introduced by the
 Bank of England  last summer to boost credit.  In the report, Item cut its 2013 economic growth forecast
to 0.6 percent from 0.9 percent in January and said weak demand
in  Europe  will hold back Britain’s recovery. It sees growth
accelerating to 1.9 percent next year and 2.5 percent in 2015.  ‘Home Front’  “With export markets continuing to disappoint, the
chancellor has focused his firepower on the home front,” said
 Peter Spencer , chief economic adviser to Item. “Although it’s
not a long term strategy, stimulating the housing market and the
high street will keep gross domestic product growth positive.
Unbalanced growth is better than no growth.”  Item said it expects the government’s 3.5 billion-pound
“Help to Buy” program to be “popular” because of pent-up
demand for new-build homes. Still, it’s “not clear” whether
the demand will lead to an increase in construction or just be
satisfied from houses that would have been built anyway, it
said.  Recent house-price data have been mixed, with  Nationwide
Building Society  saying in a March 28 report that the outlook
for home values was “unusually uncertain.” Halifax, the
mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc, said this month that
prices may continue on a “modest” upward trend this year.  China Slowdown  In a blow to global expansion, data today showed  China ’s
economic growth unexpectedly lost momentum in the first quarter
as gains in factory output and consumption weakened.  Gross
domestic product  rose 7.7 percent from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said. That compares with the 8
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 41
analysts and 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter.  European (SXXP)  stocks retreated after the China data and as
investors awaited a report on manufacturing in the  New York 
area. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 1 percent and the FTSE
100 Index dropped 1.2 percent.  Manufacturing in the New York region expanded for a third
month in April, a report at 8:30 a.m. local time may show. The
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index
declined to 7 this month from 9.2 in March, economists forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings greater than zero mean that
activity increased.  -- Editors: Fergal O’Brien, Zoe Schneeweiss  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  