-- Venezuelans Vote on Chavez Legacy as Maduro Seeks Presidency
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-04-15T00:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/venezuelans-vote-on-chavez-legacy-as-maduro-seeks-presidency.html
Venezuelans voted today on the
legacy left by late President  Hugo Chavez , who asked voters
before dying of cancer in March to support his socialist
revolution by electing Nicolas Maduro.  The 50-year-old former bus driver is counting on a wave of
sympathy for his mentor, who tapped oil revenue to reduce
poverty, to defeat the 40-year-old opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski.  Voting began at 6 a.m. and was still taking place after 6
p.m. as Venezuelans lined up at polling centers to cast a
ballot. If Maduro wins, he will need to confront accelerating
 inflation , shortages of  consumer goods  and weakening growth that
has already eroded part of the support he initially had, said
Luis Vicente Leon, president of the Caracas-based polling firm
Datanalisis.  “We’re breaking records in terms of voter participation,”
Maduro said after casting his ballot in Caracas, adding that
about 11.5 million Venezuelans had voted by around 2 p.m. local
time. More than 18 million people are on the country’s electoral
roll.  Maduro’s Twitter account was infiltrated today and hackers
tried to break into the electoral council website, Vice
President Jorge Arreaza said on state television.  Maduro campaigned on a pledge to fulfill Chavez’s vision of
a “21st century revolution” in  South America ’s largest oil
producer.  U.S. Relations  “There will be no pact with the bourgeois,” Maduro told
reporters today. “What there will be is a Bolivarian dialogue
with the entire country.”  Maduro said fighting crime and attracting “productive”
investment would be his two top priorities if elected. He also
said that Venezuela would be willing to normalize relations with
the U.S. if it “receives respect.”  During his 14 years in power, Chavez increased state
control over the economy by nationalizing more than 1,000
companies or their assets and introducing currency and price
controls.  “Now, the people get to decide,” Maduro said yesterday on
state television. “Whatever they decide, the word of the people
is sacred.”  Capriles, after the electoral council started counting
votes, said on his Twitter account that there was an intent to
“change the will of the people.” He didn’t give additional
details.  Disruptions  Authorities have arrested 43 people accused of crimes
including the disruption of polling centers, General Wilmer
Barrientos, who heads the security plan for the election, said
on state television. He said he is increasing patrols to ensure
order.  Capriles voted at around 1:30 p.m. today in Caracas and
urged supporters to turn out to vote in an “avalanche.”
Capriles, who temporarily stepped down as governor of Miranda
state to run for president, has vowed to make the country safer
and boost incomes.  “We all know what’s happening, how our forces are spread,
our forces are in full development,” he said. “Something good
is happening and something is going to happen in  Venezuela .”  Chavez tapped the world’s biggest  oil reserves  to help cut
poverty to 29.5 percent in 2011 from 48.6 percent in 2002,
according to the United Nations. Maduro, who served as foreign
minister before Chavez appointed him vice president last year,
has called the election a choice between capitalism and
socialism.  Homicides  Chavez won his third six-year term last October when he
defeated Capriles by 11 percentage points after raising
salaries, constructing thousands of homes for poorer families
and increasing cheap imports to combat shortages.  Capriles says he would increase police patrols and step up
gun control measures while cracking down on drug trafficking,
according to proposals posted on his campaign website.  Under Chavez homicides almost quadrupled, jumping to 16,030
in 2012 from 4,550 in 1998, the year before he took office,
according to data published by the government and the  United
Nations . They rose 23 percent in the past two years, and the
oil-rich nation has overtaken  Colombia  as South America’s most
dangerous country since 2006.  Capriles has also criticized the government’s handling of
the economy and corruption while saying he won’t eliminate
social programs for the poor.  Venezuela devalued the bolivar by 32 percent in February to
close a 2012 fiscal deficit estimated at 11 percent of gross
domestic product by Moody’s Investors Service.  Devaluation  Chavez, a former paratrooper, died March 5 after a two-year
battle with an undisclosed type of cancer. Maduro, who calls
himself “Chavez’s son,” has mentioned his predecessor’s name
more than 7,200 times since his death, according to a  website 
tracking his speeches.  Capriles says Maduro hurt the incomes of Venezuelans when
he carried out a devaluation in February.  “Today salaries have been cut in half,” Capriles told
supporters in the city of Barquisimeto on April 11. “Today it
costs much more to shop at stores, to buy medicines, spare parts
for cars, buses and motorcycles.”  Consumer prices rose 23 percent in February from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in 10 months and the highest official
rate in the hemisphere. Rising prices are compounded by
shortages of products on supermarket shelves. The central bank’s
scarcity index, which measures the amount of goods that are out
of stock in the market, rose to a record high of 20.4 percent in
January.  The bolivar devaluation and dollar shortages could push the
economy into recession this year, according to HSBC Holdings
Plc. The London-based bank expects Venezuela’s economy to
contract 0.6 percent after previously forecasting growth of 0.5
percent, according to a second-quarter note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  