-- Wal-Mart, Sears Refuse Compensation for Factory Victims
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-04-15T14:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/wal-mart-sears-refuse-compensation-for-factory-victims.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  have so far declined to join Li & Fung Ltd. and
other companies in voluntarily compensating victims of a fire
last year at a Bangladesh garment factory.  Wal-Mart and Sears also didn’t respond to an invitation to
attend a meeting today in Geneva, where companies whose clothing
was manufactured at the Tazreen Design Ltd. factory are expected
to discuss compensation payments, said Scott Nova, executive
director of the Worker Rights Consortium, a Washington-based
international labor-monitoring group.  The Nov. 24 blaze killed 112 workers and increased pressure
on Wal-Mart and other Western retailers to help improve factory
conditions and take more direct responsibility for their
suppliers. Clothing bound for Wal-Mart and Sears was found in
the charred ruins. Both companies have said suppliers used the
Tazreen factory without their permission and were fired. Sears
and Wal-Mart, which don’t directly employ workers in  Bangladesh 
and are not legally obligated to compensate them, have
instituted worker-safety programs there.  “It’s so important for Western retailers to be at this
meeting,” said Kalpona Akter, executive director of the
Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity, who was in the U.S.
last week to ask Wal-Mart to do more to help make Bangladesh
factories safe. “If they’re not there, they’re totally giving
the message that they are supporting these death traps and they
really don’t care how many lives go to make these clothes.”  Worker Deaths  Labor-rights groups say about 700 workers have died since
2005 at factories in Bangladesh, which the website of the
Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association says
is the world’s second-largest apparel exporter after  China .
Textiles account for about 80 percent of Bangladesh’s exports.  The compensation payments would go to the families of the
workers who died in the Tazreen fire and the more than 100 who
were injured, Nova said. At least 1,100 workers were employed at
the factory and about 600 were there at the time of the fire,
said Nova, citing information provided by the Clean Clothes
Campaign, an Amsterdam-based advocacy group.  Sears, which is based in  Hoffman Estates ,  Illinois , has no
plans “to attend the meeting in Geneva,” Howard Riefs, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “As part of
our ongoing efforts, we are continuing to actively train our
suppliers on factory and fire safety as part of our Global
Compliance Program.”  Kevin Gardner , a Wal-Mart spokesman, didn’t answer
questions about plans for the meeting or victim compensation.  Wal-Mart Standards  “At Walmart, our goal is to positively impact global
supply chain practices by raising our own standards and by
partnering with other stakeholders to improve the standards for
workers across the industry,” Gardner said in an e-mailed
statement. “Walmart has been advocating for improved fire
safety with the Bangladeshi government, with industry groups and
with suppliers. We have been actively developing and
implementing proactive programs to raise fire safety awareness
and increase fire prevention.”  Wal-Mart on April 9 announced a $1.6 million donation to
the Institute of Sustainable Communities, a U.S. non-
governmental organization, to establish an entity called the
Environment, Health and Safety Academy in Bangladesh. The school
will offer fire safety training to Bangladesh apparel
manufacturers, Wal-Mart said in a news release.  Nova said the donation was “of dubious value” because
many factories lack such basic features as fire escapes and that
“$1.6 million is a meaningless sum relative to what is actually
needed to make the industry safe.”  Wal-Mart rose 0.2 percent to $78.68 at 10:32 a.m. in  New
York , while Sears fell 3 percent to $50.66.  Education Fund  Li & Fung, (494)  a Hong Kong-based exporter, has agreed to pay
$1,280 to the family of each worker who died and to each injured
worker via a fund set up by the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers
and Exporters Association. A separate foundation will fund the
education of victims’ children, Katherine Wang, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We’re continuing our dialogue with the industry in
Bangladesh to determine what else we can do to help,” Wang
said.  European retailer C&A said it has donated $1,200 per family
via its foundation. The company also committed to providing
monthly payments of $50 to the children of the dead.  Italian retailer Piazza Italia agreed to “participate
fully in whatever compensation plan is agreed at the meeting”
but declined to attend, Nova said.  Piazza Italia couldn’t be reached for comment.  Head Injury  On April 12, Tazreen survivor Sumi Abedin and Akter visited
Wal-Mart headquarters in Bentonville,  Arkansas , to deliver a
petition urging the company to attend the Geneva meeting and
help improve worker safety. A survivor of a 1990 factory fire in
Bangladesh, Akter appealed at the retailer’s 2011 annual
shareholder meeting for Wal-Mart to publish its factory audit
reports. Abedin broke an arm and leg and suffered a head injury
in the Tazreen fire.  The petition has been signed by more than 112,000 consumers
worldwide, according to the Corporate Action Network, a
Washington-based watchdog group that has helped coordinate the
trip.  The workers-rights advocates are petitioning companies to
sign a contractually enforceable memorandum that would require
them to pay Bangladesh factories enough to cover costs of safety
improvements. So far,  PVH Corp. (PVH) , owner of the Tommy Hilfiger
brand, and German retailer Tchibo are the only ones to sign the
agreement, which also would require companies to provide
accurate and regularly updated lists of their approved suppliers
and subcontractors in Bangladesh.  It won’t take effect until four major retailers sign on.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  