-- Women Pull Corks as Female Sommeliers Take Over Cellars
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2013-04-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/women-pull-corks-as-female-sommeliers-take-over-cellars.html
Not long ago sommeliers fell into
two stereotypes: the overbearing yet aloof Frenchman, and the
overly effusive American uttering “killer cabernet” and “awesome
viognier.”  Thankfully, times are changing, as more and more women are
stepping into what was overwhelming a male domain. Women are now
even being found in European cellars.  At Le Meurice  in Paris  the sommelier is Estelle Touzet;
Milan’s  Principe di Savoia  has Alessandra Veronesi; and at
Wolfgang Puck’s CUT steakhouse in  London , Vanessa Cinti pulls
the corks.  Of the prestigious  Institute of Masters of Wine  group based
in London, there are now 87 women among the 287 worldwide
masters living in 23 countries. In both 2011 and 2012, there
were more new female Masters of Wine than male.  In the U.S. the number of women sommeliers has increased
dramatically. Maeve Pesquera, 40, wine director for the 65
branches of  Fleming’s Prime Steakhouse & Wine Bar  in 28 states,
says more than 40 percent of its sommeliers are women.  “When I started out there weren’t many women in any fine
dining job,” she says. “It’s taken a generation for us to work
through the ranks, and there was antagonism on both sides of the
table towards women. Many people used to think I was the
hostess.”  Martini Swiggers  Pesquera says that Fleming wanted to break away from the
stereotype of a steakhouse where men came to swig martinis and
smoke cigars.  “At our restaurants you see a lot of women who might feel
otherwise uncomfortable in a traditional steakhouse,” Pesquera
says. “At our restaurants they dine with their friends, discuss
wine and order fine bottles.  And they are delighted to do so
with a woman sommelier.”  Liz Nicholson, 32, is beverage director at  New York ’s
Italian  trattoria  Maialino in the Gramercy Park Hotel. She got
the job over many male contenders with longer resumes because,
“I showed more passion for  Italy  than the others. I toured more
than 60 wineries in every region of Italy for three months, and
I am just in love with the country’s food, wine, and culture.”
In the past such a coup was highly unlikely.  At New York’s  Gramercy Tavern ,  Juliette Pope , beverage
director since 2004, started as a line cook, became a waiter,
then a “cellar helper” required to clean up the wine premises,
stock the bar, and take care of inventory. Eventually she became
beverage director.  “At Gramercy Tavern they tend to hire from within,” she
says, “so I just plugged along and got the job when my mentor
left. I was primed and energetic and ready to go.”  Hurricane Katrina  Sara Kavanaugh, 32, who spent years in both restaurant
kitchens and dining rooms, took over the position of wine
director at  Windsor Court Grill  in  New Orleans  soon after
 Hurricane Katrina  caused heavy damage to the wine cellar.  “They had no sommelier after Katrina,” she says. “It was a
real mess, so I was able to build the list the way I wanted it
to be. Now we have 800 labels and 4,000 bottles.”  She laughs at the memory of approaching a table of men and
asking if they wanted to see the wine list, and they’d say yes
then ask her to send over the sommelier.  When asked if women bring a different approach to wine
service, Kavanaugh said, “I think women do have a more nurturing
style, and you have to be able to ‘read a table.’ About 60
percent of our guests know what they want and 40 percent ask for
my recommendations.  “Today men love seeing a woman sommelier. I have them
eating out of my hand. With ladies, they want to become your
friend and ask for more guidance. I like to talk them through
wine choices. It’s more of a conversation.”  Liz Nicholson agrees.  “It is in a woman’s nature to be very hospitable,” she
says. “If anything, women sommeliers have really helped remove
being so uptight about ordering wine. It comes from a place in
our heart based on the way we were raised. Our supreme goal is
to get people what they want and make them happy. Women bring
that spirit.”  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jeremy
Gerard  and Philip Boroff on theater and  Mike Di Paola  on
preservation.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 