-- Yale Beats No. 1 Quinnipiac to Win First NCAA Ice Hockey Title
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-14T05:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/yale-beats-no-1-quinnipiac-to-win-first-ncaa-ice-hockey-title.html
No. 15  Yale University  shut out
top-seeded Quinnipiac University 4-0 to win its first national
men’s college ice hockey title.  After a scoreless first period, Clinton Bourbonais gave the
Bulldogs (22-12-3) a 1-0 lead last night with four seconds left
in the second period at Consol Energy Center in Pittsburgh.
Charles Orzetti,  Andrew Miller  and Jesse Root each contributed
goals in the third period.  “They were a very tough opponent, but tonight was our
turn,” said Yale’s Keith Allain, who coaches the nation’s
oldest hockey program.  The Bulldogs, with a hockey history dating back to 1896,
had made the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament
only twice before Allain took over in 2006.  Yale defeated second-seeded Minnesota and No. 1  North
Dakota  to make the quarterfinals for the first time since 1952.
The Bulldogs topped the No. 2 University of Massachusetts-Lowell
3-2 in overtime in the semifinals.  Yale was the first ECAC ice hockey team to win the title
since Harvard in 1989. Quinnipiac (30-8-5) became the first ECAC
team to be runner-up since Colgate in 1990.  “I think it’s difficult to beat anyone in college
hockey,” Miller said during a press conference. “Night-in and
night-out, there is so much parity. In the NCAA tournament,
anybody can beat anybody and whoever has the hottest goalie and
plays the best team game wins. I think we did that for the last
four games.”  Quinnipiac beat Yale in three previous meetings this season.  “I thought we were the best team in college hockey for the
season,” Quinnipiac coach Rand Pecknold said. “Unfortunately,
we didn’t prove it tonight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  