-- Yen Climbs as Slowing China Growth Fuels Haven Bid; Aussie Drops
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-04-15T21:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/yen-advances-as-u-s-pressures-japan-on-competitive-devaluation.html
The yen climbed against all of its
16 most-traded counterparts after China’s economic growth slowed
more in the first quarter than economists forecast, fueling
demand for haven assets.  Japan’s currency gained the most in seven weeks versus the
dollar after sliding to a four-year low last week following the
central bank’s decision to boost bond purchases under
quantitative easing. The Australian dollar dropped the most in
17 months as Chinese data showed the nation’s biggest trading
partner is losing momentum and commodities plunged, led by
precious metals.  “No matter how much weakness the yen experiences, it
continues to be one of the favorite safe-haven currencies,”
Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist in New York at
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said in a phone interview. “Even though
weakness in yen might be somewhat limited or more gradual, I
think the trend is for a weaker yen throughout this year.”  The yen advanced 1.7 percent to 96.77 per dollar at 5 p.m.
in New York and reached 96.36, the strongest level since April
5. It weakened to 99.95 per dollar on April 11. The Japanese
currency gained as much as 2 percent today, the biggest intraday
jump since Feb. 25. The yen strengthened 2.2 percent to 126.16
per euro after jumping earlier as much as 2.7 percent, the most
since March 18. The shared currency declined 0.6 percent to
$1.3036.  Gold slumped, with futures for June delivery dropping to as
low as $1,335.10 an ounce, after touching $1,582.90 a week ago.
Some investors buy gold as a hedge against inflation and
currency declines. Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials
slid 2.3 percent.  Excess Enthusiasm  “It’s pointing toward too much enthusiasm for a bad
trade,” Michael Shaoul, chairman of New York-based Marketfield
Asset Management LLC, said of gold’s decline in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Alix Steel and Adam Johnson. “I don’t think gold really is a safe haven. It was
just a popular trade. I wouldn’t overcomplicate what its
implications are for the global economy.”  Australia’s dollar slid as much as 2.1 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since November 2011, to $1.0291 before trading at
$1.0313, down 1.9 percent. New Zealand’s dollar fell as much as
2.5 percent, the most since September 2011, to 83.78 U.S. cents.  The rand was the biggest loser among the dollar’s most-
traded peers, retreating the most in more than six months as raw
materials tumbled. China is the biggest buyer of South Africa’s
commodity exports. The rand lost as much as 3.2 percent, the
biggest intraday slide since October, to 9.2298 per dollar
before trading at 9.2043, down 2.9 percent.  China’s Economy  China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 7.7 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics
said in Beijing. That compares with the 8 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and 7.9 percent growth in
the previous three months.  The data add to concern the global recovery is struggling,
with the International Monetary Fund set to lower its forecast
for U.S. growth and investor  George Soros  saying Germany will
probably be in recession by the end of September.  “The rebound in the yen was a knee-jerk reaction to the
weaker-than-expected Chinese data,” said Ian Stannard, head of
European currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “My
view is that any pullback in the yen will be short-lived and the
weakening trend prevails.”  The yen slid last week following the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s pledge
after its April 4 policy meeting to double the monetary base by
the end of 2014 through buying more government bonds.  ‘Very Weak’  The Japanese currency may drop to 130 to the dollar before
paring losses, according to John Taylor, founder and chief
executive officer of the currency hedge fund FX Concepts LLC. It
will probably move back to parity with the dollar by September,
Taylor said.  “It might not happen for two or three months, but I think
the yen is going to get to be very weak -- 125 or 130,” Taylor
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers”
with  Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen.  The U.S. Treasury said April 12 it would pressure Japan to
avoid “targeting its exchange rate for competitive purposes”
in its semi-annual currency report to Congress released in
Washington on April 12.  G-20 Meeting  Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group-of-20
nations meet April 18-19 in Washington. At their last gathering
in February, they signaled Japan may stimulate its stagnant
economy as long as policy makers refrain from publicly
advocating a weaker yen.  “The semi-annual Treasury report has never been a market
mover,” Geoffrey Yu, a senior currency strategist at UBS AG in
London, said in a telephone interview. “With the exception of
the Europeans, perhaps most policy makers are kind of partial to
QE anyway.”  The Federal Reserve is buying $85 billion of Treasury and
mortgage bonds a month in a third round of quantitative easing
to spur U.S. growth.  The euro fell 0.3 percent over the past month against nine
developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The dollar was little changed, while the yen sank 1.7
percent.  Europe’s shared currency dropped for a second day today
against the yen as Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said the
European-Union-led “bailout for Cyprus leaves fundamental
solvency risks unaddressed.”  The EU said April 12 an agreement was reached between
Cyprus and the so-called troika on an economic adjustment
program required for 10 billion euros of financial assistance.
The troika refers to the International Monetary Fund, the
European Commission and European Central Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  