-- You Don’t Want to Mess With Wall Street’s Cop
-- B y   R u s s e l l   G .   R y a n
-- 2013-04-14T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-14/you-don-t-want-to-mess-with-wall-street-s-cop.html
With its recent insider-trading
settlement against SAC Capital Advisors LP, the Securities and
Exchange Commission is again under fire for its policy of
letting defendants resolve fraud allegations without admitting
wrongdoing.  For some critics, nothing the SEC does is ever tough
enough, and no-admit settlements are just further evidence of
the agency’s spinelessness.  Even some courts seem sympathetic to this critique. For
example, the judge overseeing the SAC Capital case has taken the
rare step of requiring the SEC to defend its settlement in
court. The agency also is awaiting a decision on its appeal of
another judge’s December 2011 rejection of an unrelated
settlement with Citigroup Inc. arising from a mortgage-bond
deal.  To its credit, the SEC has  stood its ground . Settlements in
which the defendant neither admits nor denies wrongdoing have
been a hallmark of enforcing civil law for decades, and in many
respects the SEC’s approach is more logical and transparent than
that of other federal agencies. For example, the U.S. Justice
Department, among others, sometimes lets settling defendants
explicitly deny wrongdoing in civil cases.  Good Understanding  Since the early 1970s, by contrast, SEC policy has coupled
the carrot of not requiring an admission of wrongdoing with the
stick of prohibiting any public denial. Although SEC settlements
don’t always recite the facts of each case in minute detail,
they almost always include enough information to provide the
reader with a good understanding of why the defendant was sued,
what laws were allegedly violated and what sanctions were
imposed. In each case, this information is filed with the court
and posted on the SEC’s  website  for the world to scrutinize.  Still, critics say no-admit settlements let wrongdoers off
too easily, muddle the public record and prevent private
litigants from piggybacking on the SEC’s case to gain their own
legal advantage against a defendant. One federal judge ridiculed
the agency’s no-admit settlement approach as creating “a stew
of confusion and hypocrisy unworthy of such a proud agency.”  These concerns, though understandable, are far outweighed
by the public benefits and basic fairness of the SEC’s approach.
Even critics concede that no-admit settlements facilitate the
prompt resolution of cases that would otherwise result in
protracted litigation and consume the limited resources of both
the SEC and the court system. That’s because admissions of
wrongdoing would aid plaintiffs in related private lawsuits
whose primary goal is to extract money from defendants rather
than to ensure that justice is served. Few SEC defendants are
willing to send this engraved invitation to trial lawyers.  Worse yet, by the time a settlement is reached, defendants
have typically racked up huge legal bills responding to the
SEC’s investigation, which can go on for years. Many are
entitled to have those bills paid by their employer or an
insurer during the SEC probe. But an admission of wrongdoing
could negate that entitlement and trigger an obligation to pay
everything back -- on top of any penalties owed to the SEC under
the settlement.  Of course, critics might say “too bad.” Wrongdoers should
suffer harsh consequences, shouldn’t they? But that assumes they
are wrongdoers, which turns the venerable presumption of
innocence on its head. Although you would never know it from
most commentary about the  SEC , in reality the agency is an
aggressive law enforcer that often achieves settlements when
guilt is debatable.  Light Burden  Compared with a criminal prosecutor, the SEC enjoys a
relatively light burden of proof when it seeks penalties and
other career-ending sanctions in civil prosecutions. Criminal
prosecutors must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but the
SEC prevails in civil cases if guilt is just slightly more
likely than innocence. And the right to remain silent offers
little comfort in SEC civil prosecutions because the agency can
legally argue that silence is evidence of wrongdoing.  As for SEC targets who can’t afford a lawyer and have no
employer or insurer to foot the bill, tough luck. The government
won’t pay for one, and in most cases the defendant isn’t poor
enough to qualify for legal aid or pro-bono representation by a
law firm.  The SEC also benefits from knowing that most companies and
executives can’t withstand the negative publicity associated
with contesting the SEC’s accusations, or at least aren’t
willing to take their chances.  Even  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  settled just months after the
SEC sued the firm in April 2010 over a collateralized-debt
transaction, although the firm had defenses that many legal
experts considered compelling. By the time it settled two months
later, Goldman had endured a 24 percent stock-price decline
along with a media feeding frenzy in which lawmakers and
commentators largely treated guilt as a foregone conclusion.  These advantages embolden the SEC to threaten suing in
situations where guilt is in doubt or the law is less than
clear. Indeed, in the past year alone, judges or juries have
rejected SEC allegations in at least a half-dozen prominent
cases, including a unanimous Supreme Court decision in February
to dismiss the agency’s  claim  that a mutual fund run by Marc Gabelli engaged in improper trading.  Settling cases without an admission of wrongdoing is
eminently fair and reasonable, not a sign of spinelessness.
Here’s hoping the SEC has the fortitude to continue defending
its commendable approach to settlements.  (Russell G. Ryan, a former assistant director of the SEC’s
Division of Enforcement, is a partner with the law firm King &
Spalding LLP. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Russell G. Ryan at  rryan@kslaw.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 