-- Madrid Protesters March Again as Spain Braces for Cuts
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2012-09-26T19:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/madrid-protesters-march-again-as-spain-braces-for-cuts.html
Spanish protesters marched for a
second night in Madrid, calling on Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
to reverse austerity measures as his nine-month-old government
prepared its fifth package of budget cuts.  Demonstrators gathered near parliament after clashing with
police at the same site yesterday. As Greek police in  Athens 
dispersed protestors with tear gas, Rajoy played down the rally
in Madrid, telling a conference in  New York  that the “immense
majority” of Spaniards aren’t on the street and his government
still has three years to pursue its economic overhaul.  Rajoy risks renewed criticism tomorrow when the Cabinet
approves the 2013 budget and presents measures to bolster the
shrinking economy. The premier is struggling to persuade
European peers, voters and investors that he can tackle the
crisis, as Spain’s  bond yields  surge amid rising investor
expectations that Rajoy will delay asking for external aid.  “Rajoy is likely to face a very tough end-of-year in terms
of social discontent,” said  Antonio Barroso , a political
analyst at Eurasia Group in  London  and a former Spanish
government pollster. “Protests are likely to continue in the
future, and the overall degree of mobilization could increase if
trade unions decide to call for a general strike.”  Spanish bond yields rose the most this month as a second
night of violent protests loomed. The yield on the 10-year
benchmark climbed 32 basis points to 6.06 percent, while the
benchmark  Ibex stock index  slid 3.9 percent.  Catalan Defiance  The premier’s efforts to restore investor confidence and
voters’ faith in his leadership suffered a new setback yesterday
when Catalan President Artur Mas called early elections to push
for “self-determination” for the country’s largest regional
economy. Rajoy hasn’t responded to the challenge, saying only
that he respects the regional government.  “ Spain  is increasingly slipping out of his hands,”
opposition Socialist leader Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba said today
in parliament. “There are clear fractures in Spain and the one
I’m most worried about is social fracture.”  Suffering Spaniards  Rajoy didn’t mention Catalonia at a speech to the Americas
Society in New York, where he focused instead on his
government’s efforts to overhaul an economy that is suffering
from its second recession in three years and an unemployment
rate of 25 percent. He praised Spaniards who put up with
austerity and hardships without protesting.  “They are the people who suffer, who are seeing huge
difficulties and face many problems, that immense majority of
Spaniards are working, if they can, and giving their best to
meet the great national goal of ending the crisis,” he said.  They may be asked to accept deeper cuts tomorrow as the
government presents a spending plan designed to reduce the
deficit to 4.5 percent of output next year from 6.3 percent in
2012. As part of those efforts, Rajoy said yesterday he will
create an independent fiscal authority, following European
recommendations.  The Cabinet will also approve a package of measures to
jumpstart the economy that Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
pledged to European peers earlier this month. While the
government has already rewritten labor-market rules, changed tax
structures and taken steps to reduce bureaucracy and regulation,
the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  have called
for additional moves to make the economy more efficient and
better able to export its way out of the crisis.  Peer Pressure  Rajoy is also facing criticism from European peers for
delaying a decision on whether to seek a bailout from the euro-
region’s rescue fund that would allow the  European Central Bank 
to prop up the nation’s bond market. The premier, who has spent
two months saying he will consider it, said yesterday in
comments to the Wall Street Journal that were confirmed by the
office that he would “100 percent” seek help if bond yields
remained too high.  The ruling People’s Party faces elections in Galicia,
Rajoy’s home region, and the Basque Country on Oct. 21, as polls
show voters are turning away from the PP in favor of smaller
parties. The largest opposition group, the Socialist party, has
failed to capitalize on Rajoy’s losses.  Opposition politicians criticized today the police response
to yesterday’s protests. The Socialists accused officers of
using “excessive” force and Cayo Lara, head of the United Left
party, called for an investigation into the police’s conduct as
he said video images indicated officers may have infiltrated the
crowd.  Interior Minister Jorge Fernandez Diaz said the
demonstration was an “illegal” effort to occupy parliament and
police acted “splendidly.” People’s Party deputy leader Maria Dolores de Cospedal compared the demonstration this week to an
attempted coup in 1981 when civil guard officers stormed the
legislature.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  