-- Thai Air A380s Bolster Challenge to Singapore Airlines
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   T o n y   J o r d a n
-- 2012-09-27T12:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/thai-a380s-bolster-challenge-to-singapore-air-southeast-asia.html
Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI) 
received its first Airbus SAS A380 superjumbo today, boosting
efforts to compete with Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Emirates for
lucrative corporate travelers.  The carrier’s planned fleet of six A380s and new Boeing Co.
777-300ERs will help it raise the percentage of seats filled in
premium cabins across its network to more than 70 percent from
about 60 percent, Acting-President Chokchai Panyayong said in a
Sept. 25 interview in Bangkok. He didn’t give a timeframe for
the goal.  Load factors in first and business class are “a little bit
low,” he said. “With improvements in the product and services
we can increase that.”  Thai’s 507-seat A380s and new regional unit Thai Smile will
lead a push to win more business traffic as low-cost airlines
lure leisure flyers. Budget airlines eventually may boost their
share of regional travel to as much as 35 percent from 20
percent, Chokchai said.  “The A380 is a huge plane so it will be beneficial on
routes with high traffic and limited frequency,” said Nalyne Viriyasathien, an analyst at DBS Vickers Securities ( Thailand )
Co. in Bangkok. “But, it can turn into a loss-maker if the
company can’t fill enough seats in the low season.”  State-controlled Thai, the ninth A380 operator, will
install its aircraft with 12 first-class seats, 60 in business
and 435 in coach. The new planes, which also feature bar areas,
will replace 375-seat Boeing 747-400s that have been in service
for more than 20 years.  Singapore, Hong Kong  The first superjumbo was handed over in Toulouse,  France .
It will make its debut commercial flights on Oct. 6, with trips
to both Singapore and  Hong Kong . Services to  Frankfurt  will
start in mid-December following the introduction of a second
A380. Early next year, A380s will also be added on Tokyo and
Paris flights.  Thai will pay for the A380s with loans and has no plans to
issue  bonds  or sell shares. The aircraft will let the airline
add seats at congested airports, lacking slots for additional
flights, said Chokchai.  “We’re expecting the A380s to serve a huge number of
people,” he said. “The size is the solution for the slots.”
Chokchai will move to a strategic-planning role when incoming
President Sorajak Kasemsuvan arrives in October.  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  also received its first
superjumbo this year as it similarly tries to win more premium
flyers.  Singapore Air (SIA)  got its 19th and final A380 earlier this
month. Emirates, the largest customer for the A380, is building
up a fleet of 90.  Thai Smile  Thai is developing regional unit Thai Smile with a
“premium position,” similar to Singapore Air’s SilkAir, to
help win business travelers, Chokchai said. The unit, which
began flights in July, will expand its fleet to 20 Airbus A320s
within three years and add services to neighboring countries and
southern  China , he said. SilkAir ordered 54 Boeing 737s last
month because of rising regional travel.  Thai Smile and SilkAir are focusing on premium markets as
low-cost carriers led by  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  and Qantas Airways Ltd.’s
Jetstar lure leisure flyers. AirAsia’s Thai venture boosted
passenger numbers 20 percent in the second quarter to 1.9
million.  Thai is again considering entering the low-cost market
after scrapping a planned venture with Singapore Air’s budget
affiliate  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR)  The carrier may set up a
new airline or transform 49 percent-owned affiliate Nok Air,
Chokchai said.  Final Decision  “We think that Nok may be the solution,” he said. A final
decision should be made by next month, he said.  Thai’s push into premium markets comes as an economic
slowdown damps corporate and long-haul travel demand. Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd. is cutting long-haul services as it retires
747 planes and because the overall market on key corporate
routes including  London ,  New York  and Beijing is shrinking.  Long-haul airlines focused on premium products and cargo
are “suffering,” Credit Suisse AG analyst Timothy Ross said in
a note yesterday. Low-cost and regional carriers are
“weathering high fuel prices best,” he said. Credit Suisse
rates Thai neutral and has a 22.50 baht target price.  The carrier has risen  9.5 percent  this year in Bangkok
trading. It fell 0.5 percent to 21.90 baht today.  Thai may still be able to hit its annual profit forecast of
6 billion baht, depending on fuel prices, Chokchai said. The
carrier has hedged at least 80 percent of its fuel needs for
this year. It has also hedged about 50 percent of next year’s
consumption at between $105 to $130 a barrel.  Busiest Time  The carrier narrowed its loss in the second quarter to 1.5
billion baht, helped by currency gains. Load factors across its
fleet have dropped to about 74 percent this month from more than
76 percent in the first half, Chokchai said. The carrier
anticipates filling about 78 percent seats in the next two
quarters, which are the busiest time of the year for the
country’s tourism industry.  “The leisure market has been impacted a little bit but
it’s not too bad,” Chokchai said. European sales have been
better than expected given the economic situation, he said.  The carrier is also considering planes including Airbus
A350-1000s and  Boeing (BA) ’s proposed 787-10 and 777x for its long-
haul fleet, he said. The carrier will wait for Boeing to
finalize its plans for the 777x before making a decision, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Jordan in Bangkok at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  