-- Taiwan Bonds Rise, Currency Declines on Global Growth Concerns
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-09-26T09:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/taiwan-bonds-rise-currency-declines-on-global-growth-concerns.html
Taiwan ’s government bonds gained,
with  10-year yields  dropping to almost a three-week low, on
speculation stimulus measures announced by global central banks
will fail to revive growth. The local dollar weakened.  The  Taiex (TWSE)  index of shares slumped 0.8 percent today as
overseas investors sold $106 million more Taiwanese stocks than
they bought, according to exchange data. Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia President Charles Plosser yesterday said more bond
purchases by the U.S. central bank probably won’t boost growth
and may jeopardize its credibility. Monetary authorities in
Europe and  Japan  have unveiled similar programs.  “People are starting to get really concerned about whether
the stimulus will work,” said  James Wang , a fixed-income trader
at Yuanta Securities Co. in Taipei. “End-users, including the
post office and insurers, have a strong appetite for bonds as
stocks are still not performing well.”  The yield on Taiwan’s 1.125 percent notes due September
2022 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.166
percent, according to Gretai Securities Market. That’s the
lowest level for benchmark 10-year rates since Sept. 6.  The  Taiwan dollar  fell 0.2 percent to NT$29.497 against its
U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It reached
NT$29.198 on Sept. 17, the strongest level since May 3, and has
appreciated 1.4 percent this quarter. One-month non-deliverable
forwards weakened 0.3 percent to NT$29.435, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan said today the island’s
dollar is less volatile than major currencies. He also said it’s
the authority’s mandate to maintain relative stability in the
exchange rate and step into the market in the event of abnormal
fluctuations.  One-month implied volatility in the currency, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, increased 16 basis
points, to 3.76 percent.  The  overnight money-market rate  was steady at 0.386
percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center shows.  -- With assistance from Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore . Editors:
Amit Prakash, Anil Varma  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  