-- Akin Gets Republican Senate Campaign Group’s Support
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-09-27T15:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/akin-gains-republican-support-after-withdrawal-deadline.html
Todd Akin is regaining Republican
support for his bid to oust Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill
of Missouri after refusing to quit the race over his remark that
“legitimate rape” rarely causes pregnancy.  The  National Republican Senatorial Committee  endorsed him
yesterday, joining four other Republicans. Last month, NRSC
Chairman  John Cornyn  of  Texas , presidential nominee  Mitt Romney 
and other party leaders called on Akin to leave the race after
his comment on rape in an Aug. 19 television interview.  Akin, 65, a six-term Republican congressman, apologized for
the comment while refusing to end his Senate candidacy. Sept. 25
was the last day he could seek a court order to have his name
removed from the Nov. 6 ballot.  The NRSC’s executive director, Rob Jesmer, backed Akin in
an e-mailed statement.  “There is no question that for Missourians who believe we
need to stop the reckless  Washington  spending, rein in the role
of government in people’s lives, and finally focus on growing
jobs in this country that Todd Akin is a far more preferable
candidate than liberal Senator Claire McCaskill,” Jesmer said.  “As with every Republican Senate candidate, we hope Todd
Akin wins in November and we will continue to monitor this race
closely in the days ahead,” Jesmer said.  Brian Walsh , an NRSC spokesman, declined to say whether the
group was re-evaluating its decision not to contribute money to
Akin’s campaign. Cornyn said Sept. 20 there was no way the
campaign committee would reconsider its decision not to put
money into the race as long as Akin is the Republican nominee.  Akin ‘Hopeful’  Akin said in an interview yesterday that he “will continue
to be hopeful” the NRSC will put money in the race.  “We believe that when they start taking a look at places
where they can invest money and where they can expect to win
seats, that they will take a good look at this seat and want to
join us,” he said.  Four other Republicans endorsed Akin this week: Missouri
Senator  Roy Blunt , South Carolina Senator  Jim DeMint , and two
former presidential candidates:  Rick Santorum , a former
Pennsylvania senator, and ex-U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich .  Today, a political action committee led by DeMint endorsed
Akin and urged its members to contribute to his campaign. The
Senate Conservatives Fund surveyed members by e-mail this week
on whether it should support Akin, and it said today that 93
percent of 8,050 responses were in favor.  $100,000 Goal  DeMint’s campaign group set an initial goal of raising
$100,000 for Akin’s campaign by Sept. 30, Matt Hoskins, the
group’s executive director, said in an e-mail today.  “The Republican establishment in Washington still refuses
to lift a finger” on his behalf, Hoskins wrote. “That’s why
the grassroots must rise up and fight back.”  The organization helped elect five Republican Senate
candidates backed by the anti-tax Tea Party movement in 2010 and
has endorsed Republican candidates in eight races this year.  DeMint and Santorum will campaign with Akin in Missouri,
the candidate told supporters yesterday at a campaign event in
Rolla.  “We’re getting contributions from Washington state all the
way to  Maine ,” Akin told about 50 supporters who gathered at a
local Republican headquarters.  Counting on Missouri  Party leaders have been counting on Missouri, a Republican-
leaning state where Romney is leading in polls in his race
against President  Barack Obama , as one of four seats they need
to gain to assume control of the Senate. Democrats control the
chamber 53-47.  After Akin’s Aug. 19 interview, the NRSC and Crossroads
GPS, a nonprofit group that former George W. Bush political
adviser  Karl Rove  helped create, said they wouldn’t spend money
on the contest with Akin as the nominee.  Like Romney, who called Akin’s remark “outrageous,” Blunt
was among those who publicly called on him last month to leave
the race.  “Congressman Akin and I don’t agree on everything, but he
and I agree the Senate majority must change,” Blunt said in an
e-mailed statement. “I’ll be working for the Republican ticket
in Missouri, and that includes Todd Akin.”  ‘Principled Conservative’  DeMint and Santorum, in a joint statement, called Akin a
“principled conservative who is committed to winning and
fighting for freedom in the  U.S. Senate .”  “If Republicans are to win back the Senate and stop
President Obama’s liberal agenda, we must defeat Senator  Claire
McCaskill  in Missouri,” they said.  Gingrich appeared at a Sept. 24 Akin fundraiser in a St.
Louis suburb and said it would be “historically irrational”
for Republicans to sideline themselves from the race.  Caitlin Legacki, a McCaskill spokeswoman, said the
endorsements don’t change the fact that Romney, vice
presidential nominee Paul Ryan and “droves of other Republicans
didn’t support Todd Akin and asked him to step down.”  “You can tell these endorsements are enthusiastic just by
the way these Republicans waited until they were stuck with Todd
Akin to finally support him,” Legacki said in an e-mail.  One Republican who called on Akin to step aside in August,
former  Missouri  Senator John Danforth, was quoted yesterday as
saying he “cannot support” the candidate.  “The problem with Akin is he taints the party,” Danforth
told reporters in Columbia, Missouri, according to PoliticMo, a
website that tracks state politics. “That’s why I think it is
important to disassociate the party with him,” PoliticMo quoted
Danforth as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Rolla, Missouri at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  