-- Ameriprise Said to Near Deal for ING Asset Management Unit
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-09-26T10:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/ameriprise-said-to-near-purchase-of-ing-asset-management-unit.html
Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP) , the
Minneapolis-based insurer and money manager founded in  1894 , is
in advanced talks to buy most of  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s asset management
business in Asia, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The companies are still negotiating on price and an
announcement may come in two to three weeks, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified as the talks are private.  ING’s Asian asset-management business is worth about 150
million euros ($194 million), according to a Sept. 4 estimate by
Cor Kluis, an analyst at Rabobank International. The company is
under European Union orders to sell its insurance and investment
management businesses before the end of 2013, after receiving
state aid in 2008 and 2009.  Ameriprise has been expanding in  Asia  through its
Threadneedle Investments asset management unit, which oversaw 74
billion pounds ($120 billion) as of June 30, according to its
website. Threadneedle said in 2010 it hired former Merrill Lynch
& Co. banker Raymundo Yu as chairman of its business in the
Asia-Pacific region.  “ING has been surprisingly successful in selling assets,”
said Werner Schirmer, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, Germany, who has a “hold” rating on
the stock. “It’s a good strategy to focus on the core
businesses.”  ING in August announced the $3.16 billion sale of its
Canadian online bank to  Bank of Nova Scotia . The Dutch company
also sold its U.S. online bank to Capital One Financial Corp.
for about $9 billion as well as its Latin American insurance
operations.  A deal for the Asian asset-management unit would exclude
ING’s joint ventures in the region, the person said. ING
spokeswoman Victorina de Boer and  Paul Johnson , a spokesman for
Ameriprise, declined to comment on the talks.  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB) , Nikko Asset Management Co.,
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  and  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  were among
potential bidders that showed interest in the business earlier,
people familiar with the matter said in May.  The Asian asset management unit had a book value of 200
million euros, ING said in a presentation on Aug. 8. ING wrote
down about 180 million euros of goodwill at its Korean
investment management division in the second quarter.  Ameriprise was also among bidders for asset-management
divisions being sold by Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest
lender, people familiar with the matter said earlier this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  