-- Andy Williams, ‘Moon River’ Crooner, Dies at 84
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-09-26T17:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/andy-williams-who-turned-christmas-music-into-gold-dies-at-84.html
Andy Williams , the “Moon River”
crooner who helped define American popular music in the 1960s
and 1970s through his Christmas albums, nightclub performances
and television variety show, has died. He was 84.  Williams died yesterday at his home in Branson,  Missouri ,
his publicist, Paul Shefrin, said, citing the family. The cause
was bladder cancer.  Since 1992, Williams made his home mostly in Branson, where
he built, ran and performed at the 2,000-seat  Moon River
Theatre . During a concert there in November, he announced he had
bladder cancer and vowed to return in 2012 to celebrate the
Christmas season and to mark his 75th year in show business.  Williams became closely associated with Christmas through
the song “It’s the Most Wonderful Time of the Year,” which he
recorded and released in 1963, and through the television
specials he hosted each holiday season -- always with his family
as special guests, and always in a colorful sweater that
practically screamed yuletide cheer.  “The show I always enjoyed doing above all others was the
Christmas show, and it was the one that the audiences loved the
most, too,” Williams wrote in “Moon River and Me,” his 2009
 memoir . “It always had the highest ratings of the entire
season. To this day people stop me on the street and tell me how
much they cherished the Christmas shows and how much it meant to
their whole family.”  His Own Show  “The Andy Williams Show,” a weekly variety show, ran on
NBC from 1962 to 1967, and again from 1969 to 1971. It helped
make stars of the Osmond Brothers, whose 1963 performance was so
popular that they were asked to become regulars.  Eighteen of Williams’s albums were  certified gold  by the
 Recording Industry Association of America , meaning they each
sold more than 500,000 copies. Three others sold more than 1
million copies each, achieving platinum status: “The Andy
Williams Christmas Album” (1963), “ Merry Christmas ” (1965)
and “Love Story” (1971).  The title song of “Love Story,” also known by its first
four words, “Where Do I Begin,” was associated with the 1970
 film  of the same name.  It was “Moon River,” recorded in 1961 just after he
signed with Columbia Records, that became his theme song.
Written by Henry Mancini and Johnny Mercer, and sung by  Audrey
Hepburn  in the movie “Breakfast at Tiffany’s,” it won the
Oscar for best song in 1962. At the Academy Awards ceremony that
year, Williams performed it. He also opened his television show
by singing the first bars -- “Moon river, wider than a mile,
I’m crossing you in style, someday.”  Domestic Scene  Williams’s life had its share of bumps.  He and his first wife, the former Claudine Longet -- who
appeared with their three children, Christian, Robert and
Noelle, on his annual Christmas specials -- split up in 1969 and
divorced in 1975.  “My first priority should have been Claudine and the
children,” he wrote in his memoir, “but they often had to make
do with the scraps of time I had left when all my other
commitments had been fulfilled.”  In 1977, when Longet faced a felony charge of reckless
manslaughter in the shooting death of her boyfriend, skier
Vladimir “Spider” Sabich, Williams attended the trial in
support of his ex-wife. After testifying that Sabich’s death was
an accident, Longet was convicted of a lesser charge,
misdemeanor negligent homicide. She was sentenced to 30 days in
jail.  Kennedy Link  Williams’s second marriage, in 1991, was to the former
Debbie Haas.  Though he was a Republican, Williams became close friends
with  Robert Kennedy  in the 1960s and was traveling with his
presidential campaign on June 5, 1968, when Kennedy was
assassinated in the ballroom of the Ambassador Hotel in Los
Angeles. Williams sang “The  Battle Hymn  of the Republic” at
the memorial service for Kennedy at St. Patrick’s Cathedral in
 New York  -- which he called “the hardest thing I’ve ever
done.”  More recently, Williams’s politics drew interest after he
told the U.K. magazine Radio Times in 2009 that U.S. President
 Barack Obama  “is following Marxist theory” and “wants the
country to fail.”  In an ABC News interview, he partially backtracked.  “I have nothing, absolutely, against a liberal Democrat,”
he said. “I just think sometimes, like a lot of Americans, that
he might be guiding us in the wrong direction. But that’s,
that’s just from a singer. It really doesn’t mean much.”  Singing Siblings  Howard Andrew Williams was born on Dec. 3, 1927, in Wall
Lake,  Iowa  -- “one of those one-stoplight, one-horse Midwestern
towns that a motorist would pass through in the blink of an
eye,” he said. He was the fourth of six children of Jay and
Florence Williams.  Williams and his three older brothers -- Bob, Don and Dick
-- began singing as a quartet, managed and promoted by their
father. When they were ready to graduate from Midwest radio
stations, the whole family moved to  Los Angeles , where the
brothers recorded “Swinging on a Star” with Bing Crosby.  After a break for military service -- Williams spent six
months in the U.S. merchant marine -- they reformed the group
and toured from 1947 to 1949 with Kay Thompson, the singer best
known as creator of the Eloise children’s book series.  After the brother act split up in 1954, Williams struggled
to begin a solo career. He moved to  New York City  and did the
nightclub circuit before landing a regular singing spot on Steve
Allen’s “Tonight” show. His 1957 recording of the song
“Butterfly” was his first huge hit.  Williams, who also had a residence in La Quinta,
 California , is survived by his wife Debbie and his three
children, Robert, Noelle and Christian, according to Shefrin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  