-- South African Strikes Halt 39% of Nation’s Gold Output
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-09-26T16:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/anglogold-operations-halted-in-south-africa-as-strikes-spread.html
South African gold mine strikes
halted about 39 percent of output, including at  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , as unofficial walkouts spread
in the country amid demands for above-inflation pay increases.  AngloGold, the world’s third-largest gold producer, today
said all of its South African mines have been stopped. Gold
Fields lost a metric ton, or about 32,000 ounces, of output
because of strikes at its KDC and Beatrix sites.  Gold-mine workers have been encouraged by the pay increase
prompted by a wildcat strike in the platinum industry. A six-
week walkout at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine erupted into violence
that killed 46, including 34 shot by police last month. Workers
won wage gains of as much as 22 percent, more than four times
the August inflation rate, before returning on Sept. 20.  Coal of
Africa Ltd. (CZA)  employees and about 20,000 transport workers are
also on strike.  “Workers are now demanding wage increases according to the
‘Lonmin settlement,’”  David Davis , an SBG Securities Ltd. gold
analyst, said in a note. “Strike action may well spread from
other mines to Harmony’s mines and to other industries.”
Harmony Gold Mining Co. said it’s so far unaffected.  Direct action over wage demands has spread as workers
sidelined traditional representatives for negotiating with
management, such as the  National Union of Mineworkers , a backer
of the governing political party. At Lonmin, workers appointed
their own leaders.  Julius Malema , a youth leader expelled by the
ruling  African National Congress , has called for disruption and
state control at mine operations.  Urgent Matter  Gold companies may bring forward wage talks scheduled for
next year, given “the urgency of the matter,” Vusi Mabena, a
stakeholder-relations executive at the Chamber of Mines, said
Sept. 21. The chamber negotiates pay on behalf of AngloGold,
Gold Fields and Harmony,  Africa ’s largest gold producers.  AngloGold fell 5.1 percent to 283.29 rand by the close of
trading in Johannesburg. Gold Fields, the world’s fourth-biggest
producer, declined for a third day, losing 2.3 percent to 102.98
rand. Gold dropped 0.9 percent to $1,744.65 an ounce as of 4:22
p.m. in  London .  AngloGold workers striking since Sept. 10 at the Kopanang
mine were yesterday joined by staff at other operations, the
Johannesburg-based company said today in a statement.  While the company received wage demands today from the
strikers, it doesn’t intend to negotiate directly with them,
 Alan Fine , a spokesman, said by mobile phone. “Wages are not
something that’s negotiated at company level, and won’t be.”
South Africa accounts for about 32 percent of the company’s
output of the precious metal.  Coordinated Strikes  Gold Fields is concerned that threats of violence against
staff reporting for shifts are rising, said Sven Lunsche, a
spokesman. A strike that started Sept. 9 at KDC West spread to
Beatrix yesterday. Workers downed tools at KDC East this month.  There isn’t any suggestion the Association of Mining and
Construction Union, a rival to the NUM, is orchestrating the
disruption at AngloGold’s facilities, Fine said. The strikes
were “obviously coordinated, but as to exactly how it was done,
a lot of that is in the realm of speculation,” he said.  Mining companies operating in  South Africa  have faced
above-inflation increases in wage and electricity costs for each
of the last three years at least. Power costs increased an
average 26 percent last year and 25 percent in 2010. Mines are
getting deeper and more difficult to operate as orebodies get
depleted.  Unrelenting Pressures  “The combination of declining production and unrelenting
inflationary pressures suggests that almost all mature South
African operations are likely to face downsizing within the next
12 to 36 months at best as an imperative and not as an option,”
SBG’s Davis said of the gold industry.  AngloGold produced about 306,000 ounces in South Africa in
the first quarter and Gold Fields’ KDC West and Beatrix about
212,200 ounces. The nation’s gold output was 1.35 million ounces
in the quarter, the Chamber of Mines says. It was the fifth-
biggest gold producing nation in 2010, according to GFMS Ltd.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the largest producer of the
metal, has lost about 20,000 ounces of output as workers refuse
to report for duty at its Rustenburg operations, the company
said today. It has issued a “final ultimatum” to them, Chief
Executive Officer Chris Griffith said today.  The Rustenburg operations, where about 21,000 workers are
on strike at four mines, were on review before the strike
started, he said. Job losses are “inevitable” and the industry
is “in crisis,” he said.  Anglo’s Review  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  said Feb. 17 it will review its platinum
assets, given the outlook for continued weak prices for the
metal, which had dropped 11 percent in the year prior to that
date. Amplats, as the platinum company is known, declined 6.1
percent to 403.02 rand.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the second-largest producer,
increased pay to halt a six-week strike in January and February
at Rustenburg, the largest mine producing the metal. Workers
have since made new demands, Johannesburg-based Impala said
Sept. 11.  More than 20,000 freight transport workers are also on
strike, demanding a wage increase of 12 percent, the South
African Press Association said. Unions rejected an offer of a
staggered increase of 8.5 percent effective next March followed
by an additional 0.5 percent in September, SAPA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  