-- Apple Supplier Jabil Circuit Drops on Margin Challenge
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-09-26T20:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/apple-supplier-jabil-circuit-drops-on-margin-challenge.html
Jabil Circuit Inc. (JBL)  fell the most in
more than a year after reporting profit that missed analysts’
estimates, a sign that higher spending to manufacture casings
for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 is crimping margins.  Shares of the  St. Petersburg , Florida-based electronics
supplier declined 9.9 percent to $18.90 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest decrease since August 2011. The  stock  has
lost 3.9 percent this year.  Apple is one of Jabil Circuit’s biggest customers,
generating at least 10 percent of sales for the 2012 fiscal
year, which ended in August. The business unit making the iPhone
casings accounted for 70 percent of $481 million in  capital
expenditures  for the year, with about $202 million of the outlay
occurring in the fourth quarter.  “These guys are spending hundreds of millions of dollars
to meet Apple’s supply needs for the iPhone in a very narrow
window,” Thomas Dinges, an analyst at IHS ISuppli, said in a
telephone interview today. “Most of it is in machining, hiring
and R&D.”  Profit excluding some costs was 54 cents in the fourth
quarter, trailing analysts’ average estimate by 4 cents,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Results from the fourth quarter were negatively impacted
by a challenging new program ramp,” Chief Executive Officer
 Timothy Main  said in a statement yesterday. Beth Walters, a
spokeswoman for Jabil Circuit, and  Natalie Harrison , a
spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t return calls seeking comment on
Jabil Circuit’s role in manufacturing the iPhone 5.  ‘Segment Underperformance’  Net income for the period fell 28 percent to $82.8 million,
or 39 cents a share, from $114.3 million, or 52 cents, a year
earlier. Revenue rose 1.4 percent to $4.34 billion, topping
analysts’s average $4.22 billion estimate.  The diversified manufacturing services unit, which includes
the iPhone casings business, contributed about  45 percent  of
sales in the period, or approximately $1.9 billion, the company
said during a conference call yesterday. That was less than
analysts had expected,  James Kelleher , an analyst at Argus
Research, wrote in a research report today.  “The disappointment in the diversified manufacturing
services segment reflected underperformance in a large, complex
new product ramp,” Kelleher said. “Although Jabil was tight-
lipped, this operation may have been providing casings for the
iPhone 5 ramp.”  For the 2013 fiscal year, Jabil Circuit expects to have
“one 10 percent customer,” the company said during the
conference call. That client is Apple, Sean Hannan, an analyst
at Needham & Co., said in an interview today.  ‘Aluminum Casing’  “Jabil has efficiency issues with the continued sharp
ramp-up of the iPhone 5 production,” Hannan said. “Most
suspect that Jabil is one of the important suppliers of the
aluminum casing.”  Profit excluding some items for the fiscal first quarter,
which ends in November, will be 51 cents to 62 cents a share,
Jabil Circuit said. That fell short of analysts’ average 67 cent
estimate.  Besides Apple, Jabil Circuit got at least 10 percent of
sales from two other customers in fiscal 2012, Cisco Systems
Inc. and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the components maker said
during the conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  