-- Tardif Favors Enbridge as Sprott Bull Days End
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-09-26T20:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/tardif-favors-enbridge-as-sprott-bull-days-end.html
Jean-Francois Tardif, who produced
19 percent annual returns from 2004 to 2009 buying commodities
shares for Sprott Asset Management LP, says he now favors
“boring” stocks such as  HealthLease (HLP-U)  Properties REIT and
Enbridge Inc., the pipeline operator.  He’s focusing on income preservation at Timelo Investment
Management Inc., a firm he started in Aurora, Ontario in March,
because he says the  bull market  in commodities is over. Tardif
invested in junior energy and gold companies before leaving
Sprott in 2009.  “The world was great then,” said Tardif, whose firm was
hired to manage the C$117.3 million ($119.9 million)  JFT
Strategies Fund (JFS-U)  for First Asset Investment Management Inc.,
which runs about C$2.6 billion. “We had a bull market in
commodities, but now we’re deleveraging, and demand isn’t
exploding. It will be very hard for commodities to go up
substantially.”  Tardif, 43, was named the best Canada-based hedge fund
manager by global magazine  HFMWeek  in 2007. He left to spend
more time with his family and to lower his eight handicap in
golf, Tardif said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto office.  His new fund features fixed-income products, with seven of
the top 10 holdings in government and corporate bonds at the end
of August, including debt from  Shoppers Drug Mart Inc. (SC) , BMW
 Canada  Inc., and  CI Financial Corp. (CIX)  About 40 percent of the fund
is in fixed income. Tardif expects to reduce those positions as
he builds the fund.  Convertible Bonds  “I’d never invested in fixed income before in my life,”
he said. He is also buying convertible bonds, a fixed-income
product which allows the holder to convert the securities to
equity. He also takes short positions, allowing him to bet
against a stock by borrowing shares and selling them, aiming to
profit by repaying the shares at a lower price. The fund is
restricted to no more than a 15 percent position in a single
security.  Three of his equity positions -- HealthLease,  Enbridge (ENB)  and
 Badger Daylighting Ltd. (BAD)  -- are a change from the junior gold
miners and oil and gas explorers he owned in his Sprott days.  “I used to not care if a company gave a dividend or not,
because my goal was for stocks that would double in three or
four years,” he said. “Now it’s more about income and making
sure if something goes bad in the world economy you don’t go
down 80 percent.”  With his new fund, Tardif’s equity strategy is to seek
companies in Canada, the U.S. and elsewhere that generate income
with strong free  cash flow , backed by a solid balance sheet and
a “safer” track record.  Badger Daylighting  Calgary-based Badger Daylighting, which provides excavating
services, had flat  revenue  and earnings through the 2009
recession and is now expanding, Tardif said. Its  shares   have
risen 74 percent in the last five years and fell 1 percent to
C$28.50 in Toronto.  Another favorite is  DirectCash Payments Inc. (DCI) , a Calgary-
based bank machine and prepaid phone-card company that operates
in Canada, the U.S. and  Mexico . Tardif wouldn’t disclose if he
owns the stock or plans to buy. It has risen 19 percent this
year,  compared  with a 2.3 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/TSX
Composite Index.  In the oil industry,  Tourmaline Oil Corp. (TOU) , a Calgary-based
oil and gas explorer and producer with a market value of C$4.9
billion, is a name that he doesn’t own but would buy at the
right price.  Tardif said investors shouldn’t expect the same kind of
returns managers generated before the global financial crisis.  “If boring is safe and gives us a decent return, I don’t
mind calling it boring,” he said. “But that doesn’t mean it
will stay that way forever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  