-- Arizona Sheriff Can’t Detain Suspected Illegals Amid Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-09-26T01:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/arizona-sheriff-can-t-detain-suspected-illegals-amid-case.html
Sheriff Joe Arpaio and the
sheriff’s office of Maricopa County,  Arizona , can’t detain
people solely on the suspicion that they are illegal immigrants
while a civil-rights case is pending before a federal judge.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  said today that
a federal judge in Phoenix didn’t abuse his discretion with a
Dec. 23 order that prohibited the sheriff’s office from
detaining an individual “based only on knowledge or reasonable
belief, without more, that the person is unlawfully present
within the United States.”  U.S. District Judge G. Murray Snow issued the preliminary
injunction in a civil-rights class-action lawsuit brought by
Latinos who allege that Arpaio and his deputies violated their
constitutional rights with so-called saturation patrols that
target Latino drivers and passengers.  The appellate court agreed that the plaintiffs are likely
to succeed on their claim.  “Absent probable cause to arrest, a law enforcement
officer may conduct an investigatory stop when that police
officer reasonably suspects that the person apprehended is
committing or has committed a crime,” the three-judge panel
said. “We have long made clear that, unlike illegal entry, mere
unauthorized presence in the  United States  is not a crime.”  Saturation Patrols  Snow in July presided over a trial, without a jury, on
claims that Arpaio’s saturation patrols in and around Phoenix,
which started in 2007 and have included hundreds of volunteer
posse members, used pretextual traffic stops to arrest Latinos
as part of a crackdown on illegal immigrants.  The class-action lawsuit was brought on behalf of all
Latinos who, since January 2007, have been stopped, detained,
questioned or searched by the sheriff office’s agents in
Maricopa County. Snow hasn’t issued a verdict or final judgment
in the case.  “It’s disappointing but not surprising,” Timothy Casey, a
lawyer who represents the sheriff’s office in the case, said of
the appeal court ruling in a phone interview. “It always was an
uphill battle.”  The unanimous opinion by the three-judge panel was written
by Senior U.S. Circuit Judge  John Wallace , nominated by
Republican President  Richard Nixon . The other two judges were
Circuit Judge Susan Graber, nominated by Democratic President
 Bill Clinton , and Circuit Judge Marsha Berzon, also a Clinton
nominee.  The underlying case is Melendres v. Arpaio, 07-02513, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix). The appeals court
case is Melendres v. Arpaio, 12-15098, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  