-- Stocks Retreat With Euro, Oil as Spain Bond Yields Surge
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-09-26T20:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/asian-stocks-fall-as-oil-drops-on-growth-concern-aussie-slides.html
Stocks (MXWD)  fell, sending Europe’s
benchmark index down the most in two months, while the euro
weakened and  Spain ’s 10-year yield topped 6 percent as protests
against austerity measures fueled concern the debt crisis will
worsen. Treasuries extended the longest rally since 2008.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.6 percent to
1,433.32 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after tumbling 1.1 percent
yesterday, the most in three months. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
lost 1.8 percent in its biggest drop since July 23. The euro
fell 0.3 percent to $1.2866 and Spain’s 10-year yields jumped as
high as 6.07 percent. Treasuries rose for an eighth day, with
the 10-year yield down five basis points to 1.62 percent. Oil
slid below $90 a barrel for the first time since August.  Germany, the Netherlands and Finland said late yesterday
Spain should bear the cost of problems in their banks, with the
European Stability Mechanism assuming only a limited burden in
recapitalizations. The Bank of Spain said the economy kept
falling at a “significant pace” in the third quarter. Reports
showed new U.S. home sales trailed the median economist
estimate, French  consumer confidence  dropped for a third month
in September and Italian retail sales declined in July.  “There’s an ongoing drip feed of negative news,” said
 Richard McGuire , a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in  London . The ESM announcement “appears to cast
some doubt as to whether Spain will be able to disburden itself
of the liabilities it will assume via its banking bailout.”  QE3 Rally Fades  The S&P 500 has rallied 5.2 percent so far in the third
quarter and pension funds may need to sell stocks this week to
rebalance asset allocations, according to UBS AG strategist
Boris Rjavinski. U.S. pensions, which UBS estimates hold about
55 percent of their $5 trillion in stocks, may pull as much as
$36 billion from equities and put as much as $19 billion into
fixed income, Rjavinski wrote in a note dated Sept. 24. The
largest outflows will be from stocks of large U.S. companies,
with as much as $21 billion being sold, the strategist
projected.  The S&P 500 fell for a fifth straight day, the longest
losing streak since July, and has erased its gain since the
 Federal Reserve  announced a third round of quantitative easing
on Sept. 13. Stocks slid yesterday as Fed Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said yesterday more bond purchases
probably won’t boost growth or create jobs.  ‘Too Many Eggs’  “There are too many eggs in the Fed basket,” Eric Thorne,
who helps oversee about $6 billion at Bryn Mawr Trust Co. in
Bryn Mawr,  Pennsylvania , said in a phone interview. “The Fed
cheerleading and stimulus has lulled investors into a sense of
complacency that the Fed can keep the economy afloat and
growing. We worry that the reality of the situation is that the
Fed can only do so much.”  American Express Co., Walt Disney Co. and Bank of America
Corp. lost more than 1 percent to lead declines in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average . Jabil Circuit Inc. tumbled 9.9 percent, the
biggest drop in the  S&P 500 , following an earnings forecast that
trailed analysts’ estimates.  PulteGroup Inc., Lennar Corp. and D.R. Horton Inc. slid at
least 3.9 percent to pace losses in all 11 stocks in an S&P
gauge of homebuilders. New-home sales decreased 0.3 percent to a
373,000 annual pace following a revised 374,000 rate in July
that was higher than previously estimated and the strongest
since April 2010, figures from the Commerce Department showed.
The median estimate of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a rise to 380,000.  European Leaders  Banks and automakers led losses on the Stoxx 600, as all 19
 industry groups  retreated. ICAP Plc fell 3.3 percent after the
world’s largest broker of transactions between banks forecast
first-half revenue will declined 14 percent. Imagination
Technologies Group Plc, a U.K. designer of parts for Apple
Inc.’s iPhone, sank 9.6 percent as Reuters reported that Texas
Instruments Inc. will shift the focus of its wireless investment
away from smartphones.  The euro fell against 12 of its 16 major peers, dropping as
much as 0.7 percent versus the yen.  The dollar strengthened against 14 of 16 major peers.
Options traders are boosting bullish wagers at the fastest pace
in three years on an exchange-traded fund that tracks the  U.S.
dollar , betting the currency will continue its rebound from a
four-month low.  The ratio of outstanding calls on the PowerShares DB US
Dollar Index Bullish Fund versus puts has more than doubled
since its Sept. 11 low to 3.41-to-1 at the end of last week,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was the largest increase
for any comparable period since November 2009. The ETF climbed
0.9 percent from a 10-month low on Sept. 14.  Spanish Yields  Spain’s 10-year yield rose 32 basis points to 6.06 percent
and the two-year note yield jumped 29 basis points to 3.46
percent. The yield on two-year  Italian debt  climbed 13 basis
points to 2.45 percent. Ten-year German yields slid 13 basis
points to 1.46 percent.  Madrid  faces a second night of protests after the anarchist
union CNT called for a demonstration tonight, coinciding with a
general strike in  Greece . Catalan President Artur Mas yesterday
called early elections to push for “self-determination” for
the country’s largest region, another setback as Prime Minister
Mario Rajoy attempts to get public backing for the deepest
budget cuts on record.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe index of credit-
default swaps on 14 governments increased 12 basis points to
148, the highest level in a week.  Oil fell 1.5 percent to $89.98 a barrel. Prices dropped for
the seventh time in eight days after the Energy Department said
total U.S. fuel use decreased 1.1 percent in the four weeks
ended Sept. 21 and inventories remained at the highest level for
this time of the year since 1990.  The S&P GSCI Index declined 1 percent as zinc, corn and
coffee lead losses in 20 of 24 commodities in the gauge.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 1.1 percent, the
most since July 23. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies traded in  Hong Kong  and the Shanghai
Composite Index both fell 1.2 percent. Russia’s Micex Index lost
2.5 percent and India’s Sensex slipped 0.3 percent. Benchmark
gauges in  South Africa ,  Hungary ,  Thailand  and Indonesia lost at
least 1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  