-- Austria Gave Away Taxpayers’ Upside in Bank Aid, Auditors Say
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-09-26T15:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/austria-gave-away-taxpayers-upside-in-bank-aid-auditors-say.html
Austria  missed out on recouping
tax-payer money given to ailing banks because it chose to invest
in non-tradeable securities rather than common shares in all but
the most hopeless cases, the state audit court said.  Austria can only earn fixed fees and dividends for most of
the capital it injected into its banks, while carrying the risk
of losing it all, the  Rechnungshof  audit court, a parliament-
appointed body supervising the government’s spending, said in a
report today. The U.S. government, by buying shares in banks it
rescued, gained the option of benefiting from higher share
prices, and managed to realize those gains, the court said.  “The government took on the risks caused by possible
economic emergencies, but it didn’t get any chance in return to
participate in a possible recovery of the  credit institutions  it
rescued,” the Rechnungshof said in the report. Future rescue
measures “should achieve a fairer burden sharing in a financial
crisis between bank investors and shareholders on the one hand,
and taxpayers and citizens on the other.”  Similarly to  Germany  and  France  and in contrast to Britain
and the U.S., Austria supported banks it considered
“fundamentally sound” through non-voting, non-tradeable
securities that pay a fixed dividend and bear losses like
equity. It nationalized only those three banks that were
teetering on the brink of collapse.  Participation Capital  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , and
Bawag PSK Bank AG all received so-called participation capital.
While they are paying dividends, none of them has repaid the
funds yet. Erste and Raiffeisen both trade at more than twice
their Feb. 2009 lows, which they hit shortly before they
announced to get 1.22 billion euros ($1.57 billion) and 1.75
billion euros in state capital, respectively.  Kommunalkredit Austria AG, KA Finanz AG, Hypo Alpe-Adria-
Bank International AG and  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  were
all nationalized to prevent their collapse. The government has
already written down the first round of rescue funds invested in
all of them.  Austria’s 2008 bank stability package originally allocated
15 billion euros for equity-like measures and 75 billion euros
to guarantee bonds. The Rechnungshof’s study investigates the
period through June 2011, leaving out the part-nationalization
of Volksbanken agreed in February, and the capital measures at
KA Finanz agreed in March. In that period, Austria’s aggregated
loss was 681.6 million euros, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  