-- Aussie Rises From 2-Week Low on China Stimulus Prospects
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-09-27T07:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/australia-bonds-gain-on-europe-concern-currency-near-2-week-low.html
Australia ’s dollar rebounded from a
two-week low amid speculation  China  will act to support growth
in the world’s biggest commodities consumer, brightening the
export outlook for the South Pacific nation.  Australian  bonds  pared earlier gains as Asian stocks rose,
curbing demand for the relative safety of  government securities .
New Zealand’s dollar advanced for a second day after data showed
the nation’s business outlook improved this month. Gains for the
so-called Aussie and kiwi were limited as anti-austerity
protests in Spain and  Greece  damped demand for riskier assets.  “If you do see more speculation of help for China that
will be a big factor supporting the Aussie,” said  Mitul Kotecha , head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit
Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “Despite all the negativity
elsewhere, a bit of resilience is coming through.”  The Aussie dollar rose 0.4 percent to $1.0409 as of 5:55
p.m. in Sydney. It yesterday touched $1.0329, the weakest since
Sept. 11. It added 0.3 percent to 80.88 yen. The  New Zealand
dollar  advanced 0.3 percent to 82.63 U.S. cents following a 0.3
percent gain yesterday. It bought 64.21 yen from 64.08.  The  yield  on Australia’s 10-year notes declined four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.02 percent, after earlier
touching 2.98 percent, the lowest since July 27.  Chinese Economy  China’s stocks climbed for the first time in three days as
data showing the nation’s industrial profits fell for a fifth
month prompted speculation the authorities would step in to
stimulate the economy. China’s central bank added a net 365
billion  yuan  ($57.8 billion) to the financial system this week
as cash demand rises before a week-long holiday, the biggest
fund injection in  data  compiled by Bloomberg going back to 2008.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rallied 0.9 percent
after earlier falling as much as 0.2 percent. The Shanghai
Composite Index added 2.6 percent.  China is Australia’s biggest trading partner and  New
Zealand ’s second-biggest export market.  In New Zealand, ANZ National Bank Ltd. released the results
of a survey that showed a net 29.3 percent of companies polled
expect their own activity will improve in the next 12 months, up
from 26.4 percent in August and the highest level since May.  In Europe, demonstrators gathered near the Spanish
parliament in Madrid yesterday, while Greek police dispersed
protesters in Athens with tear gas.  Spanish Concern  Spanish bonds dropped yesterday, sending 10-year yields
above 6 percent for the first time since Sept. 18. Catalan
President Artur Mas called early elections for Nov. 25, as Rajoy
struggles to gain acceptance for austerity measures and faces
criticism from European leaders for delaying a decision on an
international bailout to support the nation’s bond market.  “The Spanish government is going to have their budget and
there is a good chance that Greece is going to come back to the
fore,” said  Joseph Capurso , a strategist at  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia (CBA)  in Sydney. “They might prevent the Aussie from
lifting.”  The Australian dollar has weakened 1.3 percent over the
past month, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes
that track 10 developed-nation currencies. The New Zealand
dollar strengthened 0.7 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  