-- Lawmakers Weigh ECB Oversight Incentives for Non-Euro States
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-26T10:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/lawmakers-weigh-ecb-oversight-incentives-for-non-euro-states-2-.html
Plans to hand supervisory powers to
the  European Central Bank  should be overhauled to give countries
outside the euro area more incentive to sign up for joint
oversight of lenders, European Parliament lawmakers said.  “Above all the system should be so attractive that
everyone will want to join,” Sven Giegold, a legislator leading
work on the plans, said at a debate in the assembly’s economic
and monetary committee today. “What we want to avoid is for
member states to feel they have an incentive to stay out.”  EU leaders called for a single supervisor in June as a
condition of bailout assistance directly to euro-area banks.
Such a mechanism would be designed to decouple government
funding to prop up failing lenders, breaking the link
between sovereign and banking debt that has been blamed for
compounding the crisis.  “What we don’t want to do here is split the EU down the
middle, to push the Brits into a corner where they have a
referendum where they say ‘you know, thank you, but no,’” said
Wolf Klinz, another German member of the Parliament.  Giegold also said that the assembly should seek the power
to appoint the head of the ECB’s supervisory arm, and to have
some oversight over its budget.  ‘Polarization’  Andrea Enria, the chairman of the European Banking
Authority, told the Parliament last week that the euro area’s
plans to build a banking union will necessitate greater
cooperation between regulators to avoid “polarization” between
euro and non-euro nations.  While Parliament is only consulted on the ECB supervision
plan, it has full power to amend a parallel proposal adjusting
rules at the EBA. Lawmakers have said that they will treat the
two texts as a package.  Marianne Thyssen, the other EU Parliament lawmaker leading
work on the plans, said today the assembly should discuss
whether to strive to meet a Jan. 1, 2013 deadline for the
supervisor to be in place.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, has said
the deadline is “challenging, but realistic.”  Martin Merlin, an aide to Barnier, told the lawmakers that
any delay in reaching a decision would be “very badly perceived
by the markets.”  ‘Extremely Regrettable’  It would be “extremely regrettable if we were still in
discussions on these two legislative proposals in the course of
2013,” Merlin said.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has cautioned
against acting hastily to set up the supervisor, saying it will
take time to build the “sizeable apparatus” required for the
ECB to oversee more than 6,000 euro-area financial institutions.
He has also said that banks posing broad risks should move to
the new system first.  Some lawmakers today questioned whether the ECB is the
right institution to be the single supervisor.  Werner Langen , a German lawmaker in the committee, said
that it was wrong, and potentially illegal, to give the ECB far-
reaching supervision powers.  “Decision making powers should be with national
supervisory authorities” and the European Banking Authority, he
said. “The whole European supervisory system is being turned on
its head for the sake of  Spain , or one Spanish bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  