-- Bank of America Said to Plan Reducing About 40 Jobs in Asia
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-09-26T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/bank-of-america-said-to-plan-eliminating-about-40-jobs-in-asia.html
Bank of America Corp.  plans to cut
about 40 jobs at its global markets unit in Asia, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  The reductions aren’t part of the Project New BAC program
announced last year to pare expenses, according to the person,
who asked not to be identified because the matter is
confidential and declined to provide additional details. Shirley
Wong, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank, declined to comment.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  is seeking to
pare $8 billion in annual expenses by 2015 under the efficiency
plan dubbed Project New BAC, which will include cutting 30,000
jobs from retail and back-office operations. The global markets
unit includes equities, fixed-income, currencies and commodities
sales and trading.  The proposed job cuts in Asia were reported earlier today
by the Wall Street Journal and the  South China Morning Post ,
citing people that the newspapers didn’t identify.  Bank of America joins global banks in cutting jobs in Asia
as Europe’s widening debt crisis curbs economic growth in the
region.  Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest lender, is eliminating
about 85 jobs at its Japan and Hong Kong equities units, three
people with knowledge of the matter said on Sept. 5.  Korea, Indonesia  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest state-
owned lender, said in March that it will shut its cash equities,
 equity capital markets  and corporate finance units in  Korea , as
well as cash equities operations in Indonesia and Singapore.
About 70 people will be affected.  The U.K. lender will eliminate 3,800 jobs at its investment
banking unit by the fourth quarter of next year, compared with
an earlier target of 3,500, according to slides based on a
presentation delivered by John Hourican, chief of markets and
international banking, to analysts on Sept. 24.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s biggest investment bank,
cut about 20 people, or 10 percent of its investment banking
workforce in Asia outside of Australia, two people with
knowledge of the departures said on Feb. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  