-- Baoshan Steel Halting Production at China Factory
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-27T10:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/baoshan-steel-halting-production-at-china-factory.html
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) ,  China ’s
largest listed steelmaker, suspended production at a plant after
demand fell for slabs used to make ships and bridges.  “A downturn in demand in the downstream slab market”
prompted the stoppage, the company said in a statement to
Shanghai’s stock exchange yesterday, without elaborating on when
production may resume. Production was suspended “to avoid
increasing our operating losses,” it said.  Steel demand has plunged as economic growth in China, the
biggest consumer and producer of the metal, slowed to the
weakest since 2009 as a result of the  European debt crisis  and a
campaign to rein in the  property market . Steel reinforcement-bar
prices in China have fallen more than 15 percent from the high
reached on April 12 and  Australia  cut estimates for Chinese iron
ore demand for 2012 and 2013 this month.  “The bigger issue is not what this one mill represents,
but at prices at this low level, all the mills are under
pressure,” Kuni Chen, an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said by telephone. “I’d expect to see
more production shuts, but this becomes a vicious cycle where
production declines, then raw materials decline, and steel
prices continue to decline.”  Baoshan Steel rose 0.7 percent to 4.57  yuan  at the close in
Shanghai today. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index rose 2.6
percent.  Corex Plants  The plant where production is being halted is located in
Luojing, China, about 35 kilometers (22 miles) north of
Shanghai, the company said. It includes two money-losing Corex
and steel-processing facilities with a combined capacity of 3
million metric tons annually, Meng Haibiao, a media official at
parent Baosteel Group Corp. said by phone.  Corex technology enables manufacturers to make steel from
iron-ore pellets and unprocessed or non-coking coal, which is at
least 30 percent cheaper than regular coking coal. Baoshan will
move the Corex plants out of Shanghai, Meng said, without
elaborating.  Baosteel, which supplies half of China’s automobile steel,
reported a 60 percent decline in first-half operating profit.
Net income rose on the sale of its stainless-steel and
specialty-steel units to its parent.  Hot-rolled  steel coil , a benchmark product used in cars and
appliances, dropped 9.1 percent this year to $629.17 a ton,
according to data from Steel Business Briefing. Steel
reinforcement-bar futures in  Shanghai  fell more than 20 percent
in the first eight months of this year.  Contracting Manufacturing  A report today by the National Bureau of Statistics showed
Chinese industrial companies’ profits fell 6.2 percent from a
year earlier in August, after falling 5.4 percent in July. Last
week, a preliminary reading of a Chinese purchasing managers’
index by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics signaled
manufacturing may have contracted an 11th straight month in
September.  Steel production in China, the world’s biggest producer of
the metal, reached a seven-month low in August, according to
Steel Market Intelligence.  “We would need to see cutback announcements similar to
this from other larger producers who typically buy the bulk of
their raw materials on a contract basis in order to say that we
are beginning to see supply rationalization on a larger scale,”
Andrew Cosgrove, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries, said in an
e-mail.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , based in  Luxembourg , China’s Hebei Iron &
Steel Co. Ltd. and closely held Anshan Iron & Steel Group Corp.
were the world’s three biggest steelmakers by production last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Ore Imports  “China has more than 150 million tons of spare capacity,
so reaching a meaningful cutback number is highly unlikely given
that steel plants are large sources of employment,” Cosgrove
said.  Australia’s Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics on
Sept. 18 cut this year’s forecast for Chinese iron ore imports
to 672 million tons from 699 million tons.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the world’s biggest mining company, said the next day that the
pace of demand from China has slowed by more than 50 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  