-- Barnes & Noble Unveils 9-Inch Nook as Cheaper IPad
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-09-26T20:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/barnes-noble-unveils-9-inch-nook-as-cheaper-ipad.html
While  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  Chief
Executive Officer William Lynch describes  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  iPad as a
great product, even a “juggernaut,” he also has a few
criticisms. Mainly that it’s expensive and weighs too much.  Once Lynch could be certain that New York-based Barnes &
Noble could build a tablet with similar dimensions to the best-
selling iPad that was also cheaper and lighter, he went ahead
with the project after killing it twice. The result is the 9-
inch Nook HD+ that goes on sale today for $269. The newest iPad
starts at $499 and weighs 27 percent more.  “We think there is a big market there” below the pricing
of the iPad, Lynch said yesterday in an interview. “We’re
starting this product at $269 for a large-format tablet, which
is a wow, disruptive price point.”  The largest U.S. bookstore chain’s new devices, which also
include a 7-inch Nook HD starting at $199, will also take on
 Amazon.com Inc.’s (AMZN)  updated set of Kindle Fires that were
announced Sept. 6. The online retailer, which also pitched its
new devices as a cheaper competitor to the iPad, starts its 7-
inch tablet at $199 and an 8.9-inch at $299.  Barnes & Noble  rose  6 percent to $12.99 at the close in  New
York . The shares have dropped 10 percent this year.  Both Amazon and Barnes & Noble have increased access to
content beyond digital books and touted specifications such as
screen resolution and processing speed as selling points to
expand their customer base beyond readers.  Kindle Competition  Nook Video, announced yesterday, will allow users to buy
movies and television shows from providers such as  HBO  and  Walt
Disney Studios . The video, like other Nook content, can then be
stored via cloud computing and accessed on multiple devices.  “Side by side with the new Kindle Fires, they are
competitive,” said Sarah Rotman Epps, an analyst for Forrester
Research Inc. in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Getting consumers to
choose the Nook over an iPad will be much more difficult because
Apple customers care less about price, she said.  Barnes & Noble has anchored its future to digital books by
investing in the Nook at the expense of  profits  as more readers
embrace the technology. Revenue from the Nook unit, which
includes devices and e-books, surged 34 percent to $933 million
in the fiscal year through April 28 while sales at its retail
and college units declined 1.6 percent to $6.6 billion.  Releasing new devices is part of Barnes & Noble’s plan to
maintain and expand its 25 percent share of the U.S. e-book
market -- a portion it never attained in the market for printed
books. Digital content sales, which are more profitable than
printed books, more than doubled last year to $483 million.  Wal-Mart Advantage  This marks the fourth straight year that Barnes & Noble has
announced a new device for the  holiday shopping season  after
unveiling the first Nook in October 2009. This time it will face
more competition following new tablets being released by  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and possibly a smaller version of the
iPad.  That hasn’t stopped Barnes & Noble from producing the most
Nooks ever for the holidays, Lynch said. The devices will help
it gain share in tablets as well as it being featured in  Target
Corp. (TGT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  outlets while top competitor
Amazon isn’t, he said. Wal-Mart said it would stop selling
Kindles last week after Target took similar action in May.  “For new customer acquisition, that’s a strength,” Epps
said.  The majority of Barnes & Noble’s shoppers are women, and
the retailer kept them in mind when designing the new devices.
The 7-inch Nook is skinnier and lighter than a comparable Amazon
device, making it easier for holding by a woman’s smaller hands,
the company said. Less weight also makes it easier for any user
to read a book or watch a movie for several hours, Lynch said.  Courting Women  Barnes & Noble is going after moms and families by offering
customized profiles. This would, for example, enable a parent to
create a profile for their children that would keep content such
as an R-rated film out of their library.  “If you are making a portable media device and you don’t
solve for women, you are paying attention to the wrong consumer
segment,” said Lynch. Women buy 57 percent of books and more
than 60 percent of magazines, he said.  The new devices also have a revamped store that offers a
recommendation service called Nook Channels that combines the
knowledge of human booksellers with algorithms to serve up
options.  The products will ship in late October and be available in
Barnes & Noble stores and other chains, including  Best Buy Co. (BBY) ,
in early November.  U.K. Expansion  The new devices will also be sold in more than 1,600
locations this holiday season in the U.K., including Dixons
Retail Plc, Argos stores and John Lewis Partnership Plc. This
marks the first time the Nook will be sold outside the U.S.  Barnes & Noble agreed to a deal in April with Microsoft
that would give the software-maker a stake in a unit that
combines the Nook and college divisions for $300 million. As
part of the agreement, Microsoft will help develop a Nook
application for Windows 8, the latest version of the operating
system to be released next month, and also spend $305 million
over five years to help the Nook expand overseas. The deal will
be signed in the next few weeks, Lynch said.  The international expansion will be led by Patrick Rouvillois, the former global chief marketing officer at
Carrefour SA, Barnes & Noble announced yesterday.  “This looks to be a great hire for Barnes & Noble, as the
company expands,”  David Strasser , an analyst for Janney
Montgomery Scott in New York, wrote today in a note to clients.
He  recommends  buying the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  