-- Batista’s Cirque du Soleil Tests Gaga Promoter: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-09-26T20:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/batista-s-cirque-du-soleil-tests-gaga-promoter-corporate-brazil.html
T4F Entretenimento SA’s lead as the
biggest concert promoter in  South America  is being eroded after
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s entertainment venture stole one of
its headline shows.  T4F plunged 17 percent yesterday, the  most  since it first
sold shares in April 2011, after IMX, a partnership between
Batista’s EBX Group Co. and IMG Worldwide Inc., said it’s
working with Cirque du Soleil to promote live events in South
America. The deal is a blow to T4F, promoter of the Canadian
acrobatic show in South America since 2006 and the company’s
biggest draw among regularly scheduled offerings.  Batista is aiming to take market share as rising incomes
boost demand for concerts and live shows in  Brazil . T4F, which
has cornered the market for shows in South America from pop star
Lady Gaga to soul singer Joss Stone and has a deal to present
Walt Disney Co. musicals, charges up to twice as much for
concert tickets as its peers in the U.S. and  Europe .  “We are talking about a country that is becoming more and
more a major player in the global economy,” said Daniel Lamarre, chief executive officer of Cirque du Soleil, adding
that he wouldn’t be “surprised” if the deal can generate $100
million of revenue in the country within two years. “If I want
to be a true global brand, I have to be a Brazilian brand.”  T4F’s contract for Cirque du Soleil’s Corteo show, which
tells the story of a clown picturing his own funeral taking
place in a carnival atmosphere, runs through January 2015. IMX
will take over promoting other Cirque du Soleil shows going
forward.  ‘Negative’ News  IMX’s move shows it’s willing to bid high to become a top
player in the entertainment business, BTG Pactual wrote in a
note to clients today. BTG cut the 12-month target price for T4F
to 20 reais from 23 reais, saying the company lost “one of its
most relevant sources of recurring income.”  “The news is pretty negative” for T4F,  Daniela Bretthauer , an analyst at  Raymond James  who rates the stock the
equivalent of a buy, said by telephone from Sao Paulo yesterday.
Still, T4F “has successfully diversified its content into other
high margin events since its inception,” she said later in a
report.  Batista’s name recognition and sway in business circles
were reasons for the decision to switch promoters, Lamarre said
in an interview at Mr. Lam, Batista’s Chinese restaurant in  Rio
de Janeiro . The site features a table built around a Lamborghini
engine that Batista used to win a Brazilian speed-boat race in
1990.  T4F has been a  favorite  among analysts covering the
entertainment industry in Brazil, with 2012 sales expected to
grow at a record rate. The company’s sales growth this year is
poised to outpace  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , the world’s
biggest concert promoter by revenue, according to analysts’
forecasts.  Sales Outlook  Net revenue will rise  25 percent  to 759.8 million reais
($374.2 million) this year, the median of five analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an estimated 1 percent
increase to $5.46 billion for  Beverly Hills , California-based
Live Nation and a 7 percent gain to 540 million euros ($697
million) for Bremen, Germany-based  CTS Eventim AG. (EVD)   T4F, which stands for Time For Fun, added 0.9 percent to
14.10 reais at the close of trading in Sao Paulo today,
extending this year’s gain to 23 percent. The Bovespa Small Cap
index is up 22 percent in the period. Live Nation climbed 3.5
percent for the year before today in  New York  while CTS has
jumped 0.8 percent in  Frankfurt .  The Brazilian company has the exclusive rights to promote
Live Nation artists in South America, including Madonna’s MDNA
show in Sao Paulo in December, allowing it to score sponsorship
deals.  Competition  “That’s what’s interesting about their business model,
they gain by selling the tickets and sponsorships at the
events,” Bruno Piacentini, a partner at  Fama Investimentos (SHOW3)  who
helps manage 1.3 billion reais in assets, including T4F shares,
said in a Sept. 24 telephone interview from Sao Paulo. The IMX
deal doesn’t hurt the company’s outlook, he said in a follow-up
e-mail. “Competition for shows is part of the business.”  Tickets to see Lady Gaga in Sao Paulo in November cost as
much as 750 reais, or about $370, according to T4F’s online
ticket sales service. That compares with a high end of almost
$160 in Paris and $175 in  Los Angeles .  Cirque du Soleil was T4F’s headline show in its theater and
exhibitions category, which accounted for  more than  15 percent
of revenue last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katerina Petroff in  Sao Paulo  at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  