-- Billionaire Triguboff’s Meriton to End Debt Hiatus on Costs
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-09-27T02:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/billionaire-triguboff-s-meriton-to-end-debt-hiatus-as-costs-drop.html
Meriton Pty ,  Australia ’s biggest
apartment developer, plans to begin borrowing for the first time
in 12 years as the central bank’s interest rate cuts and the
entry of overseas lenders reduce debt costs.  “I haven’t borrowed yet, but I will,” billionaire Harry Triguboff, the company’s 79-year-old founder and managing
director, said in an interview in Sydney on Sept. 25. “The RBA
has cut rates and there’s pressure brought on our money market
by foreign banks bringing money here.”  Meriton has been debt-free since 2000, funding its projects
through sales of apartments and rental income, said Triguboff,
who was born in China to Russian Jewish migrants. The timing and
amount of debt funding depends on sales and approvals of new
projects, he said.  Australia’s long-term borrowing costs are the cheapest in
the developed world relative to short-term rates, as bond
investors bet the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will cut its 3.5
percent benchmark rate by another 101 basis points in the next
year. The central bank lowered the overnight cash- rate  target by
1.25 percentage points from November to June to help shield the
economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis and slower growth in China.  Four of the seven foreign bank licenses the central bank
has granted since 2010 have been to Asian lenders, the RBA said
in a March  report .  Business lending  by local and overseas banks
has increased by an annualized 6.5 percent after contracting in
the past three years, the RBA said this month.  China Childhood  Rivals including  Mirvac Group (MGR)  and  Finbar Group Ltd. (FRI)  have
reported declines in funding costs. Mirvac, which develops
residential and commercial property, said its weighted average
cost of debt was 4.6 percent in the year ended June 30, compared
with 5.3 percent a year earlier. Apartment developer Finbar’s
finance costs fell to 5.9 percent from 6 percent in the period.  Triguboff was born in Dalian, China, in 1933, and spent his
early childhood in Tianjin, south of Beijing, among the White
Russian Jewish community that had fled the  Soviet Union . He
began building apartments in 1963 and registered Meriton in 1968.  The company has focused on developments only in Sydney in
New South Wales state, Brisbane and the  Gold Coast  in Queensland,
and has no plans to expand further, he said.  Home prices  have responded to lower borrowing costs. In
Sydney, which accounts for 85 percent of Meriton’s business,
prices rose 2.4 percent in the three months ended Aug. 31 from
the prior quarter, according to researcher RP Data. In
Queensland state capital Brisbane, which contributes 10 percent,
they climbed 0.6 percent, the figures show.  Brisbane Prices  Sydney home prices will jump between 3 percent and 5
percent in 2012 and as much as 9 percent in 2013, while Brisbane
will see maximum gains of 3 percent this year and 7 percent next
year, in line with the average for Australia’s capital cities,
according to Sydney-based  SQM Research Pty.   “Our blocks in Sydney are doing very well,” Triguboff
said. “ Brisbane  is doing better, but the market has to go up
quite considerably before I’d be interested to build more
there.”  The closely held developer is building the 81-story
 Infinity , Brisbane’s tallest residential tower, and completed
the 74-floor  Soleil , also in the city’s center, this year,
adding more than 1,000 apartments.  Chinese Buyers  About 5 percent of Soleil remains to be sold, Triguboff
said. Meriton has sold 150 of the 550 units at Infinity, which
will be finished by late 2013, and plans to keep 250 as serviced
apartments to take advantage of attractive room rates in
Brisbane, Triguboff said.  Meriton will start about 2,000 apartments next year, from
about 1,700 in 2012, he said. It started 1,167 apartments in
Sydney in fiscal year 2012, a 57 percent jump from the previous
year. The number of projects by Australia’s top 20 builders was
little changed, the  Housing Industry Association  said.  “We still need interest rate cuts to generate more of a
response” in the housing market, said  Matthew Hassan , Sydney-
based senior economist at Westpac Banking Corp., who forecasts
two interest cuts this year, and another in 2013. “We have
moved to a point of stability; the question is more about
whether we move into a recovery and if so when and how strong.”  Meriton has benefited as peers, including listed groups
 Stockland (SGP)  and  Australand Property Group (ALZ) , distanced themselves
from apartments as financing costs spiked, and the government
restricted non-residents to buying only new homes or properties
that are not yet completed.  The company continues to see interest from Chinese buyers,
who are undeterred by a slowdown in the local economy, Triguboff
said. They make up about 15 percent of buyers, the same as a
year ago, Meriton figures show.  “So far, they’re coming as before,” Triguboff said. “The
Chinese government is quite happy for them to buy, so as not to
have a bubble in  China .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  