-- Biogen Says Hemophilia B Medicine Controlled Bleeding
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-09-26T20:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/biogen-says-hemophilia-b-medicine-reduced-bleeding.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the third-largest
biotechnology company, said its experimental hemophilia B drug
helped limit bleeding with fewer infusions in a study, prompting
plans to apply for U.S. approval in the first half of 2013.  More than 90 percent of bleeding episodes were controlled
by one injection of recombinant Factor IX Fc fusion protein, or
rFIXFc, in a 123-patient trial, the Weston, Massachusetts-based
company said today. The therapy was well-tolerated in the late-
stage study, Biogen said.  With current therapy, patients often get as many as three
infusions a week, said Glenn Pierce, Biogen’s chief medical
officer for hemophilia, in an interview. The study showed the
company’s drug helped some patients when given once every two
weeks. Biogen may be able to grab a substantial share of the $1
billion hemophilia B medicine market, said Eric Schmidt, a New
York-based analyst with Cowen & Co.  “This really is the No. 1 treatment advance that patients
with hemophilia are looking for and looking forward to,” Pierce
said by telephone today. “The idea of being able to treat
oneself much less often is something that has resonated within
the community.”  Hemophilia B is an inherited bleeding disorder in which the
blood can’t clot properly. It affects about 4,000 people in the
U.S. and 25,000 worldwide, according to Biogen. The company’s
drug would compete with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s BeneFix, which dominates
the market with about $700 million in revenue, according to  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in  New York .  Shares Rise  Biogen fell less than 1 percent to $151.62 at the close in
New York. The shares have gained 38 percent this year.  Swedish
Orphan Biovitrum AB (SOBI) , Biogen’s partner on the drug, surged 44
percent to close at 37.50 kronor in  Stockholm . The gain was the
biggest ever for the company, which sold shares in an initial
public offering in September 2006.  Biogen’s study examined the drug’s use as a weekly therapy
to prevent bleeding, on an individualized interval for that
purpose; as a treatment given to control a bleed; and for use in
surgery. The most common side effects included joint pain, high
blood pressure and flu, with one serious side effect found to be
“possibly related” to the drug, Biogen said.  Event Resolved  The serious adverse event was resolved and the patient
stayed on the therapy, Biogen said. No patients developed
inhibitors, antibodies that stop treatment from working, the
company said.  Patients in the group receiving preventative therapy once a
week had a median bleed rate of 2.95 a year, Biogen said. Those
treated for preventative purposes on an individualized basis,
who were dosed about once every two weeks for the last six
months of the study, had bleed rates of 1.38 a year. Patients
treated episodically had bleeds at a rate of 17.69 a year,
Biogen said.  “That means that, by and large, these patients were very
well protected while they were on study with our product,”
Pierce said.  The positive results were expected by most analysts, said
Cowen’s Schmidt, who recommends buying Biogen shares. The
company’s “body language was quite favorable,” he said in a
telephone interview today.  The half-life of Biogen’s drug, a measure of how long it’s
active, was 82 hours, compared with 34 hours for Pfizer’s
BeneFix.  Hemophilia A  Biogen also is in late-stage trials of a therapy for
hemophilia A, a market about four times the size of that for
hemophilia B, Schmidt said. He expects the data from that study
to be positive as well.  “This is a slow-switching market, but over time this drug
could take a substantial share,” Schmidt said of the hemophilia
B therapy.  Biogen, which sells the multiple sclerosis therapies Avonex
and Tysabri, is awaiting Food and Drug Administration approval
of its MS pill BG-12, expected by the end of the year or early
in 2013. The company has also said it anticipates reporting data
on its experimental drug for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or
 Lou Gehrig ’s disease, by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  