-- Bombs Target Damascus Military Buildings as Battles Rage
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-09-26T14:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/bombs-target-damascus-military-buildings-as-battles-rage.html
Two  suicide bombers  driving cars
carried out attacks against the Syrian army command headquarters
in Damascus, killing four guards, state television reported,
citing an unidentified military official.  Footage aired on state TV showed a white microbus blow up
on the street outside the facility. Less than 10 minutes later,
a second explosion unleashed a ball of fire inside the premises.
The attacks were followed by indiscriminate shooting by gunmen,
according to state-run SANA news agency.  At least 14 people were injured, the television station
said. A reporter for  Iran ’s  Press TV , Maya Naser, was killed by
a sniper while covering the blasts and the station’s Damascus
bureau chief, Hosein Mortada, was injured, the Iranian station
said on its website. It blamed rebels fighting the government of
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad for the attacks on its
journalists.  Assad’s forces have struggled to maintain security in
Damascus and the commercial hub of Aleppo, the country’s largest
city, after rebels pushed into neighborhoods of both cities in
July. A bomb attack in Damascus that month killed key members of
Assad’s military establishment, including his brother-in-law,
Major General Assef Shawkat, and Defense Minister Dawoud Rajhah.  Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi told Syrian TV that the
country is “facing a war” and “we are ready to face it.”  Arab Intervention  Violence across the country has killed at least 216 people
today, including 138 in Damascus and its suburbs, according to
the Local Coordination Committees in  Syria .  Qatar’s emir called for an Arab-led intervention in Syria
to stop a conflict that has dragged on since March 2011.  After the UN Security Council’s failure to act, “it is
better for the Arab countries themselves to interfere out of
their national, humanitarian, political and military duties and
to do what is necessary to stop the bloodshed in Syria,” Sheikh
Hamad bin Khalifa  Al Thani  told the 193-member General Assembly
yesterday.  Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi told reporters
in  New York  today that he believed the Qatari proposal did not
mean the use of the military.  France  has been in talks with Qatar, Jordan and  Turkey 
about establishing protected civilian zones in Syria, French
President  Francois Hollande  told journalists in New York
yesterday after his United Nations General Assembly address.  Qatar has led the group of Persian Gulf nations seeking
more far-reaching measures to end Assad’s rule, including arming
the opposition, a step widely criticized by the UN and Western
nations. Al Thani suggested Arab nations should act in unison
and intervene in Syria as they did in the 15-year civil war in
Lebanon.  International and regional efforts have failed to put an
end to the bloodshed in Syria, where at least 28,000 people have
been killed, according to estimates by the Syrian Observatory
for  Human Rights .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  