-- BP’s Texas Refinery Sale Shows Volatile Industry’s Decay
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-09-27T20:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/bp-s-texas-refinery-sale-shows-volatile-industry-s-decay.html
BP Plc (BP/)  may get less than half the
$2.85 billion it planned for selling its Texas City refinery,
the third-largest in the U.S., as values for U.S. plants haven’t
kept pace with soaring profits.  The average price of U.S. refineries sold since 2009
indicates the plant should sell for $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries show, a valuation that would be among the
lowest in two decades. At a time when investors are enjoying the
highest stock returns since 2007, BP would reap less than half
of the $4.4 billion total value it estimated it would get when
it put its Texas and Carson, California, plants up for sale last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Carl Icahn ,  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  and
hedge fund Appaloosa Management LP have reaped returns of as
much as  97 percent  so far this year by investing in refiners
benefiting from cheap North American crude. Asset values have
stagnated as buyers shy away from the sector’s volatile history
and the prospect of competition from new refineries being built
in Asia.  “BP wants to sell it and they want to sell it by the end
of the year, so if you’re a buyer, you’re going to think you’re
in a good position,” said  John Auers , senior vice president at
Turner Mason & Co., a Dallas-based energy consulting firm. “BP
would be thrilled with $2 billion, but if you’re a buyer, why
not try half that? Whatever they bid, they’re not going to pay
full price.”  Viability Doubts  Surging profits haven’t quieted doubts about the long-term
viability of an industry facing declining demand in the U.S. and
Europe and steep up-down cycles, said Harold York, a vice
president for Wood Mackenzie Ltd. in Houston.  “We’re in a boom, but they are fearing the bust and they
don’t know when it’s going to happen,” York said. “Buyers see
refineries are profitable today, but long term, they don’t want
to be losing money with an asset they can’t dispose of.”  Buyers fear that competition from new refineries planned in
China, India and the  Middle East  may depress domestic prices and
damp a burgeoning U.S. export business. As new pipelines
including  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL are built to ship oil
from Canada and North Dakota to the U.S. Gulf Coast, U.S. crude
prices are likely to rise, diminishing a key cost advantage for
U.S. refiners and shrinking profits, York said.  Potential Buyers  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the largest independent processor of
fuel in the U.S., has closely studied buying the refinery,
according to a person familiar with the San Antonio-based
company’s plans. Valero owns a 245,000 barrel-a-day refinery
that is adjacent to the BP facility in Texas City. Combining the
two plants would create the largest refinery in the U.S. The
person spoke on a condition of anonymity as the talks aren’t
public.  Valero and  PBF Energy Inc. (PBF) , a private equity-backed
independent refiner run by former Philipp Brothers trader and
refining magnate Thomas O’Malley, are the two most likely
buyers, said Christian O’Neill, a Bloomberg Industries energy
analyst.  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) , which also has a Texas City
refinery, and  Phillips 66 (PSX) , which abandoned plans to sell one of
its plants in Louisiana, may also be suitors given a potentially
lower price, O’Neill said.  The Texas City refinery might be more attractive to
independent refiners if they could buy the asset for a bargain
price, then cash in on improving profits.  Rising Shares  Bill Day , a spokesman for Valero, and  Scott Dean , a
spokesman for London-based BP, declined to comment.  Marathon, Phillips 66 and Icahn-backed  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) 
surged to records this month as refiners continued to earn the
highest profits since 2007, when the industry enjoyed a so-
called “golden age” because of higher U.S. demand and fuel
margins. Valero, which is up 49 percent this year, climbed on
September 14 to its highest point in four years.  The rally has attracted investors such as  David Tepper ’s
Appaloosa, which owned 2.3 million Valero shares as of June 30.
Buffett’s Berkshire  owned  27.1 million shares of Phillips, which
has risen 42 percent since its April 30 spinoff from
ConocoPhillips.  CVR Energy is up 97 percent after Icahn bought a stake in
January and agitated for the company to put itself up for sale.
Amid a proxy fight, he offered investors $30 a share and now
holds an 82 percent  stake  in the company. CVR reached an all-
time high of $37.66 on September 21 in New York.  Refining Renaissance  The latest refining renaissance has been spurred by growing
supplies of cheap U.S. oil. Crude prices have dropped as
producers tap into new fields in North Dakota and Texas,
allowing refiners to save money on every barrel of oil they turn
into gasoline, diesel or jet fuel.  The  margin  between U.S. oil costs and fuel prices reached
an average of $28.98 from April to June, the highest-ever
second-quarter price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At the same time, the value of the plants that process the
fuel has reached historic lows based on an industry yardstick
that compares the price at which a plant sells with how much it
would cost to replace it, according to an analysis by Bloomberg
Industries.  Plants have sold for about 12 percent of their replacement
cost since 2009, which would result in a price of $1 billion for
the refinery. The historical average is between 20 percent and
30 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lower Price  Analysts also use price per barrel of refining capacity to
evaluate plant sales. Since 2009, 11 refineries have sold for an
average of $3,128 a barrel, according to transactional data
compiled by Bloomberg. On that basis, the refinery may have a
price tag of $1.5 billion, leaving the company about $1.72
billion short of its $4.4 billion goal for the two refineries.
The lower price may force BP to put other assets on the block,
said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis .  BP initially expected its refineries to sell for more than
the 10-year average of $6,000 a barrel of refining capacity,
 Iain Conn , the company’s head of refining and marketing, said in
February 2011.  Last month, BP announced an agreement to sell its refinery
and related assets in Carson, California for $1.18 billion, or
about $4,417 a barrel of processing capacity. To reach the $4.4
billion target for the two plants, BP’s Texas City refinery
would have to sell for $3.2 billion, more than double the
average since 2009.  The Carson refinery sale and BP’s $5.55 billion divestiture
of its stakes in a group of Gulf of Mexico fields last week
raised to $32 billion the company’s total asset sales since
2010. The company aims to raise $38 billion from divestitures by
the end of 2013 after a 2010 explosion at its Macondo well in
the Gulf killed 11 workers.  BP Pressure  “If BP does come up short, they’ll have to go farther down
their list of assets to sell,” said Youngberg, who rates BP’s
American Depository Receipts a hold and doesn’t own shares.
“They’ve got to meet the guidance number they’ve provided for
investors to get more comfortable.”  The history of BP’s Texas City plant, site of one of the
most deadly refining accidents in 20 years, may be another
deterrent to buyers, said Turner Mason’s Auers. BP pleaded
guilty to a violation of the  Clean Air Act  and paid a $50
million fine. The company also paid $2.1 billion in settlements
with blast victims. BP agreed in July to pay more than $13
million in additional fines and continues to negotiate with the
U.S. Department of Labor about more than 20 remaining citations.
BP spent $1 billion to upgrade production units and improve
safety at the plant, the company has said.  “Refinery sales are challenging all over the world due to
the economic slowdown we’re seeing in many markets,” said
 Gianna Bern , president of risk-management consultant Brookshire
Advisory and Research, Inc. “This refinery is a tough sell for
the associated liabilities that could go with it. That all
manifests itself in a lackluster price tag.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  