-- Brazil Real Falls on Report of Possible Government Intervention
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-09-26T21:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/brazil-real-falls-on-report-of-possible-government-intervention.html
Brazil ’s real dropped for a fourth
day in the longest stretch of losses in September after a
newspaper reported that the government may take steps to prevent
the currency’s appreciation.  The real declined 0.2 percent to 2.0356 per  U.S. dollar ,
extending its decline in the third quarter to 1.3 percent, the
worst performance among the greenback’s 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. Swap rates on contracts due
in January 2014 were unchanged at 7.73 percent.  “The government is going to try its best to contain the
real from a speculative attack as the expectation for flows is
very positive,” Italo Abucater, the head of  currency trading  at
Icap Brasil, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “And the
market abroad has been bad since yesterday.”  The real also fell against the dollar along with most other
major currencies as concern global stimulus measures will fail
to bolster the economy encouraged demand for a refuge.  Brazil may take action to protect the real from stimulus by
central banks in the U.S., Europe and Japan,  Valor Economico 
reported, citing an official in the government’s economic team
whom it didn’t name.  Possible government measures include boosting dollar
reserves and reducing the primary surplus to allow for more tax
cuts, the newspaper reported. An official at the  Finance
Ministry  said it doesn’t comment on reports based on
unidentified people.  Rousseff at UN  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  criticized the U.S.’s
and Europe’s handling of the global economic crisis, saying in a
speech to the  United Nations  yesterday that a reliance on
monetary policy won’t revive world growth and is unfairly
hurting  emerging markets .  In the opening address of the UN’s 67th General Assembly,
Rousseff said emerging-market currencies have suffered an
“artificial appreciation” as a result of the monetary policies
adopted by rich nations.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last week that Brazil’s
government stands ready to act to prevent the real from rallying
in response to the extra stimulus.  The real has slid 8.3 percent against the dollar in 2012 as
Brazil’s government supported industry by raising tariffs and
imposing barriers on capital inflows. The central bank auctioned
$5.7 billion in four reverse currency swaps Sept. 12 through
Sept. 17 to contain the real.  Policy makers have cut the target lending  rate  by 5
percentage points since August 2011 to a record low 7.5 percent,
the biggest reductions among Group of 20 nations. Trading in
swap rates indicates the benchmark Selic may be lowered by a
quarter-percentage point in October.  Spanish bond yields surged today the most this month as
demonstrators planned a second night of protests in Madrid.
European stocks fell the most in two months on concern the debt
crisis is worsening. Oil retreated for a third day while
Treasuries extended their longest rally since 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in em São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  