-- Brooklyn Crab’s $48 Crab Isn’t Worth Cash or Wait: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-09-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/brooklyn-crab-s-48-crab-isn-t-worth-cash-or-wait-review.html
A free bus shuttles tourists from a
subway stop in Carroll Gardens to  Brooklyn  Crab. The dining room
boasts panoramic views of Lower Manhattan and the Statue of
Liberty. Waiters are happy to recommend a $98 steamed seafood
platter.  Cha-ching!  This is the most expensive restaurant in the Red Hook
section of Brooklyn, where my great-grandmother once sold
chowder to dock workers.  Brooklyn Crab sells king crab legs for $48. That gets you
24 ounces. Can you order half a pound, like at Jeffrey’s Grocery
in the  West Village , where my banker buddies eat it for $22?
Sorry, Charlie. Not here.  That crustacean limbs, de-shelled elsewhere for less,
arrives whole. You reach into a steel pail for crackers, paper
plates, and, instead of napkins, a roll of paper towels, which
on one occasion were soggy.  As a native Long Islander raised on no-frills seafood spots
on Freeport’s Nautical Mile, I have nothing against getting my
hands a little wet and dirty. When I’m paying  Manhattan  prices?
I expect Manhattan refinement.  Customer Last  At Brooklyn Crab I ask to eat at the bar, and the host
shakes her head, explaining that there’s an hour wait and she
doesn’t want to overtax the kitchen. Never mind that fancy,
packed restaurants like WD-50, Daniel and Le Bernardin all serve
full menus to bar diners.  Then again, when you taste the sandy, undercooked scallops
($23) or the over-fried crab cake ($14), you realize something’s
not right.  On slower nights, a full menu is served at the counter, but
you might be required to pay-as-you-order.  “Cash only,” says the bartender. You ask to run a tab and
she shakes her head. So you go upstairs where they take plastic.  Things don’t get much better. What kind of rum comes with
the pina colada? “House rum,” the waiter replies.  Order it with a float of  Myers’s . Costs 11 bucks. It’s as
thick as a McDonald’s shake. The cream cuts the heat of your
habanero pepper dipping sauce, poured from one of hundreds of
various bottles lining the dining room.  Oregano Sauce  Any of those sauces will be better than the marinara that
accompanies fried calamari ($11). The sauce tastes as if someone
had poured a bottle of oregano oil into it.  How about a nice  Ommegang Witte  to pair with your oysters?  “That’s only available in the downstairs bar,” your
waitress says. She pours you a  Sixpoint  Sweet Action Ale
instead, a wheaty, robust blend. Not bad. So you ask for half a
dozen oysters, three Malpeques and three Tatums ($18).  “Sorry, the minimum order is six for each oyster.”  The better call is half a dozen raw clams for $9. The
bivalves pack twice the brine of oysters and sport a gentle
chew. Fried clam bellies ($15) provide the same flavors with a
plump mouth feel. These are clams pretending to be oysters.  Maryland blue crabs are always a good idea ($24 for six).
Cracking is a lot of work, but the payoff is that your hands,
face and arms get covered in musky crab guts and spicy Old Bay.  Fried pollock ($15) is satisfyingly crispy; too bad the
fish is oversalted to near-lox strength.  Whole lobster, part of a $46 surf and turf, tastes of
iodine and liver. Now that would be fine if this were one of
those rare dry-aged lobsters. But since it isn’t, I advise my
companion to stop eating.  Gristly Tale  The included turf was an inedible gristle-packed strip
steak.  Clam chowder ( New England , not Manhattan -- heresy, unless
you’re a Pats fan) is mostly cornstarch and cream.  One final indignity: During our last meal upstairs, we
realized the bartender didn’t charge us for a margarita and an
order of sweet, cucumbery, Virginia fried oysters ($14).  So we had our waitress add those items onto our dinner
bill. Upon leaving, the bartender confronted us, challenged our
story, and sent a fellow staffer upstairs to verify that we had
paid. The dispute was resolved when I produced the receipt.  Brooklyn Crab, for you a Bronx cheer.  Rating: 1/2 *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Many dishes under (and over) $30.  Sound Level: Near but not quite noisy, about 70 decibels.  Date Place: Not when you’re accused of dining and ditching.  Special Feature: Excellent blue crab boils.  Inside Tip: Great riesling by the glass for $8.  Back on My Own Dime: No.  Brooklyn Crab is at 24 Reed St., Red Hook. Information: +1-
718-643-2722;  http://brooklyncrab.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on opera and
 Amanda Gordon  on nightlife.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 