-- California Mayor Asks for Prayers as Bankruptcy Looms
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-09-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/california-mayor-asks-for-prayers-as-bankruptcy-looms.html
Atwater,  California , is going broke
under the weight of public employee costs, lost revenue and a
stagnant economy, pushing it toward becoming the  state ’s fourth
city to seek bankruptcy protection.  The city of 28,000, situated among Merced County’s  dairies
and almond  groves about 100 miles (about 160 kilometers)
southeast of  San Francisco , has a $3.3 million deficit that may
leave it insolvent before year’s end, according to  budget
documents .  Atwater’s City Council is set to vote Oct. 3 on a fiscal
emergency declaration that would permit it to follow other
California cities -- Stockton, San Bernardino and Mammoth Lakes
-- into  bankruptcy court . Across the state, the recession and
the foreclosure crisis have depleted property-tax revenue at the
same time municipalities are burdened with rising costs
including pensions.  “We are in a tough spot,” Mayor Joan Faul, 71, said by
telephone. “All I can say, sir, is keep us in your prayers. We
will need it.”  The city’s economy since World War II was centered on the
region’s agriculture and nearby Castle Air Force Base, the home
of B-52 bombers. Castle closed in 1995 after the end of the  Cold
War , taking thousands of jobs with it.  The median  household income  in 2010 was $42,226, 19 percent
below the national average of $51,914. Almost a fourth of the
population is considered below the poverty line, compared with
13.7 percent statewide, according to U.S. Census figures.  Housing Crash  The housing crash cut Atwater’s median home price by more
than half, to $140,000 in the fiscal year that ended in June
from $336,000 in the same period in 2007. Unemployment surged to
21 percent. That helped send the city’s tax revenue plummeting
more than one-fifth since 2007.  The loss of local redevelopment funds to the state also has
squeezed the city, Faul said. Governor  Jerry Brown  killed
redevelopment programs statewide and redirected their tax funds
to cut the state’s deficit.  Atwater’s public employee pensions and retirement costs
also are on the rise. The city’s contribution rate to the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  rose after the
fund suffered a record loss of 23.4 percent in 2009.  Under labor contracts, the city pays all of an employee’s 8
percent mandatory contribution for pension costs and 7
percentage points of the 9 percent for police and firefighters.
Health-care premiums for city workers increased by 15 percent in
2011 and are forecast to jump 10 percent next year.  To help balance the books, Atwater has mostly depleted its
cash reserves, fired 30 percent of its 120 workers since 2008
and may need to trim another third, Faul said.  Union Talks  The city is in talks with unions for concessions from
police officers and rank-and-file city workers, Faul said.  “We just started negotiating with our unions and they are
going to have to take a major cut,” Faul said. “We hope that
once we declare a fiscal emergency, that they will realize that
we are definitely in an emergency. If they want to save all the
jobs, everyone is going to have to take a cut.”  To make matter worse, the city is facing a $2 million
payment on municipal bonds in November, according to the budget
documents.  Standard and Poor’s lowered its underlying rating on the
Atwater Public Financing Authority’s wastewater revenue bonds to
BBB- from A on Sept. 24, citing the city’s potential move toward
bankruptcy.  Under a  law  signed by Brown last year, cities seeking
 bankruptcy protection  must first declare a fiscal emergency or
hold talks with creditors through a mediator. Municipalities can
file for court protection if mediation doesn’t bring a
resolution in 60 days or if the city runs out of money.  The law was sought by public-employee unions after Vallejo,
a city of 120,000 in the San Francisco Bay area, went bankrupt
in 2008 and asked a court to help it void labor contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  