-- Cameron Says Child Torture in Syria a ‘Stain’ on Allies of Assad
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-09-26T17:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/cameron-says-child-torture-in-syria-a-stain-on-allies-of-assad.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
risked newly improved relations with  Russia  by saying countries
that refuse to condemn Syria’s regime have blood on their hands.  Russia prompted condemnation from Britain and other
countries in July when along with China it refused to back a
resolution at the  United Nations  aimed at increasing pressure on
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to go amid mounting violence.  Speaking to the UN in  New York  today, Cameron cited a
report this week by charity  Save the Children , which said
Assad’s forces have used schools as torture centers and children
as target practice.  “The blood of these young children is a terrible stain on
the reputation of this United Nations,” Cameron told the 67th
General Assembly. “And in particular, a stain on those who have
failed to stand up to these atrocities and in some cases aided
and abetted Assad’s reign of terror.”  His comments come amid a new thaw in ties between Britain
and Russia, with President  Vladimir Putin  holding talks with
Cameron last month during his first trip to Britain in seven
years.  Relations soured over the 2006 death of dissident ex-
Russian security agent  Alexander Litvinenko  in London and
leaders of the two countries didn’t meet for five years until
Cameron visited Moscow last year. Intelligence cooperation
remains suspended.  Russia, whose ties with Syria’s ruling elite date to the
 Cold War , has used its UN Security Council veto three times to
protect Assad from censure. Putin has said any overthrowing of
Assad would push Syria into civil war.  U.K. Aid  The U.K. today announced 8 million pounds ($13 million) in
further humanitarian aid to help Syrians refuges, including
250,000 children, as well as those inside the country cope with
winter conditions.  Cameron used his UN speech to say the international
community should help nations to build on progress made since
pro-democracy uprisings erupted across the  Middle East .  “One year on, some believe that the Arab Spring is in
danger of becoming an Arab Winter,” he said. “They point to
the riots on the streets, Syria’s descent into a bloody civil
war, the frustration at the lack of economic progress and the
emergence of newly elected Islamist-led governments across the
region.”  “But they are in danger of drawing the wrong conclusion,”
he said. “Today is not the time to turn back -- but to keep the
faith and redouble our support for open societies, and for
people’s demands for a job and a voice.”  Speaking after Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  had
addressed the UN, Cameron warned Islamist regimes not to
undermine the stability of other countries.  “ Iran  will continue to face the full force of sanctions
and scrutiny from this United Nations until it gives up its
ambitions to spread a nuclear shadow over the world,” Cameron
said. Iran is Syria’s closest ally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in New York at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  