-- Capitec Offers 14 Million Discounted Shares to Boost Capital
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-09-26T12:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/capitec-offers-14-million-discounted-shares-to-boost-capital-2-.html
Capitec Bank Holdings Ltd. (CPI) , the
South African lender that specializes in unsecured loans for
low-income earners, will offer 14 million discounted shares to
fund growth and meet new capital requirements.  Shareholders will be able to buy seven new Capitec shares
for every 50 they own at 160 rand apiece, representing more than
a 22 percent discount to yesterday’s closing price, the
Stellenbosch, South Africa-based bank said today in a statement.
The lender, with 534 branches, wants to raise 2.2 billion rand
($267 million) in an offer underwritten by  Bank of America
Corp .’s Merrill Lynch unit and Sanlam Capital Markets.  The money will be used to fund more unsecured lending, add
branches and help the bank comply with Basel III capital
requirements, Capitec said. While Capitec’s capital adequacy
ratio at 38 percent surpasses the 14 percent average of  South
Africa ’s four largest banks, its loans in arrears grew 66
percent in the first half, it said in a separate statement
today.  Capitec’s profit rose 43 percent to 700 million rand in the
six months ended August compared with a year earlier, the
company said in the statement.  Capitec “undoubtedly” provides some loans in areas
affected by South Africa’s labor protests, which may lead to an
increase in bad debts, said Patrice Rassou, who helps oversee
about $40 billion as head of equities at Sanlam Investment
Management in  Cape Town . “It has an aggressive write off policy
which means that the bank recognizes bad debts early on so that
we should see the impact by the next interim results.”  The lender  dropped  as much as 3.8 percent, its lowest in
sixth months, and fell 2.1 percent to 202 rand as of 12:04 p.m.
in Johannesburg trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  