-- Cargill Says It’s Looking for Deals to Meet Growth Target
-- B y   S h r u t i   S i n g h   a n d   L y d i a   M u l v a n y
-- 2012-09-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/cargill-says-it-s-looking-for-deals-to-meet-growth-target.html
Cargill Inc., the commodities
trader that’s the largest closely held U.S. company, said it’s
looking to make acquisitions even as it focuses on expanding
organically.  The agricultural producer and trader would “probably grow
best” with 40 percent of its expansion coming from deals,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Greg Page  said in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York  yesterday. The
Minneapolis-based company needs to grow at about 3 1/2 times the
speed of global gross domestic product to fulfill the
expectations of its owners, Page said.  “If you do that all organically, it’s going to be tough,”
he said.  Cargill plans to spend virtually all of the capital it
deploys in the year through May 2013 on organic growth. Spending
will be lower than in fiscal 2012, when it rose to a record $4
billion, including the $2.2 billion purchase of French animal
nutrition provider Provimi SA and acquisitions of a Central
American meat processor and a German cocoa and chocolate
processor.  “U.S.-based agribusiness companies are primarily looking
outside the  United States  for future growth, either in key
growing regions including  South America  and Eastern Europe, or
in growing areas of consumption, particularly  China ,” Judi Rossetti, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings  in  Chicago , said in an e-
mail.  ‘Reasonable Mix’  Cargill’s competitors have announced deals worth billions
of dollars this year. Swiss commodity trader Glencore
International Plc said in March it agreed to buy Canadian grain
handler Viterra Inc. for C$6.1 billion ($6.2 billion).  Japan ’s
Marubeni Corp. announced in May it agreed to acquire U.S. grain
merchandiser Gavilon Group LLC for $3.6 billion.  Cargill, which employs about 140,000 people around the
world, was founded in 1865 by William Cargill. The company is
still controlled by members of his family.  “For us to do a $5 billion to $6 billion acquisition for
cash would be a stretch,” said Page, 61.  The company looks for “a reasonable mix of acquisitions”
to bring in new personnel and assets to help Cargill balance its
product mix and businesses in the northern and southern
hemispheres, he said. It doesn’t have any significant
acquisition prospects right now, Page said.  After an active 2012, it’s anticipated that Cargill will
spend time integrating those acquisitions, according to Fitch’s
Rossetti. Fitch has an A rating on Cargill’s debt with negative
outlook, “primarily reflecting recently weak operating
performance which led to an increase in gross leverage,” she
said.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services on Aug. 15 lowered its
outlook on Cargill to negative from stable while maintaining its
A long-term  credit rating . Holding on to that A rating and
maintaining enough resources to allocate to the company’s
various businesses are Cargill’s priorities, Page said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Lydia Mulvany in New York at 
 lmulvany1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  