-- Chelsea Plans $73 Million Falcao Bid, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-26T06:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/chelsea-plans-73-million-falcao-bid-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Falcao Bid  Chelsea is planning a 45 million-pound ($73 million) bid
for Atletico Madrid striker Radamel Falcao and has had
preliminary discussions about signing the Colombian in January,
the  Sun reported .  Blues owner  Roman Abramovich  endorsed a formal bid after
watching Falcao score three goals in last month’s European Super
Cup final and internal talks have taken place to work out how
best to secure his signature when the transfer window reopens,
the newspaper added.  Capello Support  John Terry  received support in his Football Association
hearing this week from former England manager  Fabio Capello , the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  Capello, who quit England over Terry’s treatment by the
F.A., is said to have provided a statement for the Chelsea
captain’s defense case against charges of using abusive language
with racial connotations toward Queens Park Rangers defender
 Anton Ferdinand  in a match last year, the newspaper added.  Terry Disruptions  Chelsea is confident Terry will be ready to face Arsenal in
three days even if his training for the rest of this week is
disrupted by appearances at the hearing, the  Guardian reported .  “The fact is he’s got a lot of minutes under his belt
already,” the Guardian cited Chelsea assistant manager Eddie Newton as saying of Terry. “We’ll be in constant contact with
John. The fitness coaches and medical staff will get around him
and make sure he’s prepared in the best way possible.”  Valencia’s Injury  Manchester United winger  Antonio Valencia  left the club’s
Carrington training ground on crutches yesterday with his right
foot in a protective boot, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Ecuadorian is said to have been hurt winning the
penalty which produced the match-winning goal in United’s 2-1
victory at Liverpool three days ago, the newspaper added.  World Cup  UEFA President  Michel Platini  wants the 2022  World Cup  in
Qatar staged during the European winter in a move that would
require domestic championships including England’s Premier
League to take a month-long break, the  Guardian reported .  “I hope it will be held in winter,” the Guardian cited
Platini as saying. “We have to go to Qatar when it is good for
everybody to participate. What is better for the fans?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  