-- Chilean Peso Declines as Copper Drops on Global Stimulus Concern
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-09-26T17:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/chilean-peso-declines-as-copper-drops-on-global-stimulus-concern.html
Chile’s peso declined as copper,
the nation’s biggest export, fell on concern stimulus measures
from the U.S. to  Japan  may fail to bolster the global economy.  The currency depreciated 0.1 percent to 470.61 per dollar,
paring its rally in the third quarter to 6.5 percent, still the
best performance among the greenback’s most-traded Latin
American counterparts. The peso advanced 1.2 percent yesterday,
the most in two months.  “Yesterday’s rise wasn’t really well-founded, and today
copper is falling,” said Eugenio Cortes, the head of currency
forwards at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago.
“The news due in coming days is more likely to be bad than
good, the stimulus is already priced in, and now we have to wait
and see if it works.”  Copper dropped after Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said yesterday that new asset
purchases announced this month probably won’t boost growth or
hiring. Spanish bond yields rose the most in September as
demonstrators planned a second night of protests in  Madrid .  The peso touched 469.70 per  U.S. dollar  yesterday, trading
in a range of 476.01 to 469.50 over the past seven days.  “The market sees the risk of central bank intervention
below 470, which creates a natural floor,” Cortes said. “At
475, we see more appetite because we’re out of the risk of
central bank intervention.”  Forwards Market  International investors in the peso forwards market had a
net $8.8 billion short peso position on Sept. 24, up from a one-
month low of $8.5 billion on Sept. 21.  Interest-rate swap rates fell for a fifth straight day. The
two-year rate dropped six basis points to 4.84 percent.  Shorter maturities of inflation-linked swap rates rose
while longer ones slid. The two-year rate increased one basis
point to 1.94 percent, and the 10-year inflation-linked swap
rate dropped three basis points to 2.24 percent.  Two-year break-even inflation in the swaps market, a
measure of inflation expectations, decreased seven basis points
to a one-month low of 2.84 percent.  Trading of swaps indicates at least one cut in the target
lending rate in the next 12 months. That contrasts with a survey
of traders and investors published today by the central bank
showing they expect the rate to remain unchanged at 5 percent
for at least 24 months.  Swap rates in other markets fell as well. The five-year
swap rate in Australian dollars decreased 4.5 basis points to
3.26 percent.  “It isn’t a local phenomenon, it’s international,” said
Miguel Ramirez, a trader at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
in Santiago. “The market started to doubt if all the measures
announced by the Fed and the ECB would be effective. Pessimism
has returned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  