-- China-Japan Ministers Hold ‘Severe’ Talks as Spat Damages Trade
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2012-09-26T08:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/china-japan-foreign-ministers-meet-as-island-tensions-hurt-trade.html
The foreign ministers of  China  and
Japan held “severe” talks in  New York  in an attempt to ease
rising tensions over a territorial dispute that is hurting trade
between Asia’s two biggest economies.  China’s Yang Jiechi met with Japanese counterpart Koichiro Gemba on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly
yesterday. Yang said China “will not tolerate” Japan’s claims
to islands in the  East China Sea , the Chinese Foreign Ministry
said. Gemba described the atmosphere as “severe” at the
meeting in which he emphasized Japan’s “maximum restraint”
over the dispute,  Kyodo News  reported.  While neither side showed signs of compromise, the
discussion contrasts with the cancellation of a series of
bilateral events amid the worst diplomatic crisis since 2005.
 Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  said today it’s halting production in China to
reflect falling demand, and All Nippon Airways Co. said 40,000
seats have been canceled on its China flights.  “There was agreement to maintain lines of communication
through working-level talks,” Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary
Osamu Fujimura told reporters today in  Tokyo , adding that the
meeting lasted about an hour. “There are no magic tricks in
diplomacy. It all comes down to holding talks through various
channels and at various levels.”  The talks took place after vice foreign ministers met
yesterday in Beijing to discuss Japan’s purchase this month of
the islands, known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese.  Crisis Talks  Yang and Gemba last met on Sept. 9 at the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Summit in Vladivostok,  Russia , two days
before Japan reached a deal to buy the islands from a private
Japanese owner. Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  also met briefly at APEC.  “China will continue to take firm measures to safeguard
its territorial integrity and sovereignty,” Yang told Gemba,
according to the Chinese Foreign Ministry statement.  The crisis sparked protests in China that damaged
operations for Japanese companies. Reservations for more than
40,000 seats on All Nippon Airways flights were canceled from
September to November, Executive Vice President Osamu Shinobe
told reporters in Tokyo today.  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  had 15,500
cancellations as of Sept. 24.  Organizations in the two countries canceled or postponed a
series of events, including plans to mark the 40th anniversary
of diplomatic relations. China skipped an international disaster
relief conference in Tokyo, Xinhua reported. It said Chinese
leaders in the Japanese city of Yokohama announced they would
cancel an annual National Day parade on Oct. 1.  Production Cuts  Nissan, the top Japanese seller of vehicles in China, said
today its August output in China fell by 8.9 percent from a year
earlier to 86,488 units. Chinese production dropped 18 percent
to 67,625 vehicles at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and declined 10 percent
at Honda Motor Co. Japanese autos will lose their lead this year
over German nameplates for the first time since 2005, China’s
Passenger Car Association estimates.  Nissan will suspend China production from Sept. 27 -- three
days earlier than planned -- and resume output on Oct. 8 in view
of the “current market situation,” company spokesman Chris Keeffe said today by telephone. Toyota said it’s suspending
output from today until Oct. 8 in Guangzhou and Tianjin, and at
its Sichuan FAW plant from Sept. 29.  Japanese carmakers, still recovering from natural disasters
in Japan and  Thailand  last year, may face an even bigger
financial toll from the protests in the world’s biggest
automobile market, according to projections from China’s
Passenger Car Association.  Ambassador’s Car  Thousands of people have taken part in anti-Japanese
protests across cities across China over the island dispute.
Protesters threw bottles and eggs at the Japanese embassy in
Beijing this month, while demonstrators also caused minor damage
to the official vehicle of U.S. Ambassador  Gary Locke .  Japan’s main opposition Liberal  Democratic Party  today
chose as its new leader former premier Shinzo Abe, who has
called for building on the islands as a means of asserting the
country’s sovereignty. Polls indicate the LDP may defeat the
ruling Democratic Party of Japan in elections Noda must call by
August, putting Abe in line to become prime minister again.  The Legislative Affairs Office of China’s State Council
unveiled draft regulations yesterday that would raise the fine
for failing to “demonstrate China’s complete territory” when
creating maps of the region, Xinhua said. The fine, currently
capped at 10,000  yuan  ($1,585), would be raised to 100,000 yuan.  At the same time, Xinhua published a 5,200-word  White Paper 
from China’s State Council Information Office outlining China’s
claim to the islands, referring to documents dating to the Ming
Dynasty in 1561.  “No matter what unilateral step  Japan  takes over Diaoyu
Dao, it will not change the fact that Diaoyu Dao belongs to
China,” the paper said, referring to the islands’ full Chinese
name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  