-- China’s Stocks Fall to 2009 Low on Concern About Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-26T08:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/china-s-stocks-fall-poised-for-biggest-quarterly-loss-in-year.html
China’s stocks  fell, with the
Shanghai Composite Index briefly sliding below the 2,000 level
for the first time in three years, on concern the deepening
economic slowdown is hurting corporate profits.  The Shanghai Composite dropped 1.2 percent to 2,004.17 at
the close, after slumping to as low as 1,999.48 in the last five
minutes of trading. The benchmark gauge has lost 9.9 percent
this quarter, the most in a year, and is the worst performer
among global markets after Cyprus. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slipped 1.1
percent to 2,184.89, led by metal producers.  “The market has no confidence in China’s old growth model
of investment and exports any more,” said  Wang Zheng , Shanghai-
based chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment Management
Co., which manages about $120 million. “With the two growth
drivers fading, we haven’t found a new engine. That’s why stocks
are performing so poorly.”  China Vanke Co. (000002)  and Poly Real Estate Group Co., the
nation’s biggest developers, dropped at least 1.4 percent on
earnings concerns after the southern city of Guangzhou
restricted sales of homes before they are completed.  BYD Co. (002594) ,
the automaker part-owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., slid to a record low after CLSA Asia Pacific Markets cut
its share-price estimate of the company’s Hong Kong-listed
shares by 94 percent.  About 5 billion shares changed hands today on the Shanghai
gauge, 35 percent lower than the daily average this year.
China’s markets will be closed next week for national holidays.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  retreated 1.3 percent today. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  fell 0.9 percent in  New York  yesterday.  Poor Sentiment  The Shanghai index has lost 8.9 percent this year on
concern the government isn’t loosening monetary policy or
introducing stimulus policies fast enough to counter the
slowdown in the economy. It’s valued at 9.3 times estimated
earnings, compared with the average of 18 since Bloomberg began
compiling the  weekly data  in 2006.  China’s stocks have fallen because of “low” investor
confidence, share oversupply and concerns about corporate
governance, Dennis Lim, who helps manage $48 billion of
emerging-market funds at Templeton Asset Management Ltd., said
in an interview from  Singapore  yesterday.  China’s dispute with  Japan  over contested islands in the
 East China Sea , the effect of  Europe ’s debt crisis on China
exports and policy uncertainty before a change of leadership
later this year have also hurt investor sentiment.  “It’s all sentiment,” Lim said. “The good news, is when
the rebound comes, the rebound can be very sharp and strong.
It’s a function of investor sentiment. If the government can
show the local population, ‘look, everything is under control,
we know what’s happening. We are addressing the problems.’ It
could happen very quickly.”  Developers Fall  China’s statistics bureau is due to release August
industrial companies’ profits tomorrow. Profits fell 5.4 percent
from a year earlier in July, the most this year.  A measure of 24  property stocks  in the  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP) 
dropped 1.1 percent, the first decline in four days. Vanke, the
nation’s biggest listed property developer, fell 1.5 percent to
7.79  yuan . Poly Real Estate, the second largest, lost 1.4
percent to 10.03 yuan. China Merchants Property Development Co.
retreated 1.4 percent to 19.51 yuan.  Guangzhou limited pre-sale of some housing projects with
“excessive high prices,” the local land resources and housing
management bureau said in its Twitter-like official weibo.  The nation’s two-year effort to curb a real-estate bubble
has included imposing a property tax for the first time in
Shanghai and Chongqing, raising down-payment and mortgage
requirements, increasing building of low-cost social housing and
placing home purchase restrictions in about 40 cities.  ‘Few Positive Catalysts’  BYD sank 5.4 percent to 13.99 yuan, its lowest close since
its listing in June last year. Its Hong Kong-listed shares
tumbled 9.3 percent. CLSA lowered its 12-month price goal for
BYD’s Hong Kong-traded shares to HK$0.41, from a previous
estimate of HK$7.40.  “The company will likely deteriorate further due to
declining business in mobile phone components, rechargeable
batteries and new energy,”  Scott Laprise , a Beijing-based
analyst at CLSA, wrote in a research note yesterday. “We see
few positive catalysts going forward and maintain our
conviction” to sell the stock, Laprise wrote.  ChiNext Companies  The  ChiNext index  of start-up companies tumbled 3.1 percent
to 661.49 in Shenzhen today, the lowest close since Feb. 1, on
concern founding shareholders will sell shares once their stock
lock-up periods expire next month.  Major shareholders of 28 ChiNext companies will be able to
sell their shares on the secondary market at the end of October
after a three-year lock-up period, according to a report by
China Finance Information. The number of such companies will
rise to 52 by the end of the year, it said.  The People’s Bank of  China  reiterated that it will pursue
prudent monetary policy and guide stable and moderate increase
of credit, the central bank said in a statement yesterday
following a quarterly meeting of its monetary policy committee.  The government has expedited approvals of infrastructure
projects and cut borrowing costs and reserve-requirement ratios
twice respectively this year to counter a slowdown in economic
growth, which has decelerated for six quarters.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  