-- China Raises Doctor Fees, Lowers Drug Bills to Ease Anger
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-26T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/china-raises-doctor-fees-lowers-drug-bills-to-ease-anger.html
A retired Chinese civil servant
with stomach pains was pleasantly surprised on a recent visit to
the  Beijing Friendship Hospital  by how long it took and how much
he paid.  “I’m paying less, so of course I’m satisfied,” says the
71-year-old, who would only identify himself as Mr. Tong. “And
coming to the hospital, getting a queue number, and seeing the
doctor all took less than one hour.”  Beijing Friendship is part of a pilot program in which
patients pay more to see a doctor, while drugs sold by the
hospital pharmacy are cheaper, thereby lowering the total bill.
Waiting times are shorter as well, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Oct. 1 edition.  The reforms are partly a response to a rash of violence in
hospitals. Last spring a doctor in the city of Harbin was
murdered by a patient. The government’s official newspaper,
 China Daily , has reported that in 2010 there were more than
17,000 violent incidents at hospitals and that 50 hospitals in
Beijing have beefed up security. With daily episodes of labor
unrest, such as the recent brief shutdown of a Foxconn
Technology Group factory, the government does not want to add to
the frustrations of ordinary Chinese.  Fixing the hospital system will be a priority for the new
government of heir apparent Xi Jinping, the current vice
president. Many Chinese believe you can’t trust doctors, says
Jason Mann, a health-care analyst at Barclays in Hong Kong.
“They prescribe expensive things you don’t need,” he says.  Doctors’ Salaries  Most Chinese hospitals charge very little for doctor
consultations. They make about 50 percent of their revenue
selling medicine to patients, charging markups from 15 percent
to 100 percent. Doctors on average earn just $1,000 a month, so
many supplement their incomes by over prescribing medicines sold
by hospital pharmacies. (The prescribing physician splits the
profits with the hospital.)  “To increase profits, hospitals overtreat and
overexamine,” Rao Keqin, party secretary of the Chinese Medical
Association, said in an August report by McKinsey.  It gets worse: In September, China Daily reported a
widespread bribery case in Shenzhen involving at least 20
hospital officials accused of taking kickbacks from drug and
medical equipment companies.  Patient Anger  Health Minister Chen Zhu says the government won’t tolerate
hospital violence, while also recognizing the anger of patients.
“We need to have immediate solutions,” Chen told reporters on
Sept. 17, “so we’re preparing to build better channels for
patient complaints.”  The reforms, which the government wants to take nationwide
by 2015, aim to lower drug prices, make consultations more
expensive, and give doctors raises. A patient who wants to see a
doctor at Beijing Friendship now pays a minimum of 42  yuan 
($6.60) compared with the old fees of 5-14 yuan for any doctor.
A visit to a specialist now costs 100 yuan. Drug prices have
dropped an average 30 percent.  “Reforms have stopped doctors from over prescribing
medicines,” Chen said.  To help make up the difference, the government will expand
subsidies to hospitals. The government is also opening the
health-care sector to foreign investment.  Critics, while impressed, warn that changes won’t be easy.
“The whole idea of trying to make public hospitals really serve
the public interest is the right direction to go,” says Liu Su,
a professor of public health at the  Chinese University  of Hong
Kong. “The system has been kind of broken for so long, the
incentives have been wrong for so many years.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bruce Einhorn in  Hong Kong  at 
 beinhorn1@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  