-- Chorizo Pies Draw Latinos as Wendy’s Follows Pizza Patron
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-09-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/chorizo-pies-draw-latinos-as-wendy-s-follows-pizza-patron.html
Pesos for pizza? In the U.S.? Yep,
and that’s just a part of Pizza Patron’s efforts to bring in
more Hispanics.  While Pizza Patron certainly isn’t the first restaurant
chain to target Latinos, it may well be the most extreme. Owner
and founder Antonio Swad is unapologetic about the eatery’s
tactics to draw diners -- pay in pesos and get your change in
dollars, order in Spanish and get a free pizza -- and the chain
requires most of its employees to speak both English and
Spanish.  “We’re not interested in being a broad brand,” Swad,
wearing jeans and a black Pizza Patron T-shirt, said during an
interview at his yet-to-be-opened store in Cicero,  Illinois ,
about 8 miles southwest of downtown Chicago. While some of
the closely held company’s recent promotions have upset “a
lot” of people, Swad said that’s fine because “they’re not our
core customer.”  The 101-store chain, based in  Dallas  with almost all
locations in the U.S. Southwest, will open its first Midwest
eatery next month in Cicero, where 87 percent of the population
is Hispanic, according to data from the U.S. Census Bureau. Swad
is targeting 30 shops in the greater Chicago area and said the
brand can have 1,000 U.S. locations in the long term.  What Swad stumbled upon by accident 26 years ago in
Dallas’s Pleasant Grove neighborhood is the same thing that
other  restaurant chains  have recently zeroed in on as the  U.S.
economy  struggles to recover: Hispanics are an increasingly
important group politically and powerful drivers of  consumer
spending .  $1.5 Trillion  The buying power of that demographic, the largest minority
segment in the U.S., with about 52 million people, is projected
to jump by 50 percent to $1.5 trillion by 2015 from $1 trillion
in 2010, according to a Nielsen Co. report from March. While
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  has long been one of the only chains to
successfully market to Latino consumers -- Nielsen says the
company spent about $131.2 million on Spanish-language marketing
last year -- others, including  Denny’s Corp. (DENN)  and  Wendy’s Co. (WEN) ,
are revving up Hispanic advertising.  “There’s a lot of folks who are sort of waking up,”
Cristina Vilella, director of marketing at McDonald’s USA, said
in an interview. “The ethnic consumer, and Hispanics
specifically, has influenced the culture in ways that have
changed what we listen to, what we eat and has made things more
mainstream.”  McDonald’s recent Latino-focused ads for mango pineapple
smoothies, which show a woman sipping a drink and being
transported back to her childhood, “really tapped into sort of
latent emotion of growing up with these fruits,” Vilella said.
The ads are shown in both English and Spanish.  Denny’s Campaign  Denny’s, which has more than 1,500 U.S. units, has recently
created ads to appeal to Hispanics, who make up more than one-
fifth of its customers. In May, the Spartanburg, South Carolina-
based company introduced a national TV commercial and online
 video  advertising $4 chicken wraps -- the spot shows a Hispanic
father at Denny’s confusing his children’s request for a chicken
wrap with a rap. He proceeds to deliver a rap song about chicken
in Spanish.  Denny’s plans to spend a larger percentage of its total media
budget on ads targeting Latinos in 2013, chief marketing officer
Frances Allen said in an interview.  The Hispanic demographic is “a very big focus for us,”
Allen said.  “This is a very value-oriented customer” she said. “They
are generally parents with two or more children in their
households. They value eating out as a family.”  Wendy’s, which has a Latino ad campaign called Sabor de
Verdad, which translates as “real taste,” also is stepping up.  ‘Sales Opportunity’  “We have long underserved the growing market of Hispanic
consumers,” Emil Brolick, chief executive officer of Dublin,
Ohio-based Wendy’s, said during a conference call on Aug. 9.
This demographic “represents an important sales opportunity,”
and Wendy’s “will have a more consistent presence in Hispanic
media,” he said.  That makes sense because Hispanics have increased their
restaurant spending faster than the rest of U.S. diners. Their
expenditures on food away from home grew by 33 percent from
$1,865 in 2000 to $2,474 in 2010, while all American consumers
boosted restaurant expenditures by 17 percent from $2,137 to
$2,505 during that decade, according to data from the Bureau of
Labor Statistics in  Washington .  Swad, who grew up in Columbus,  Ohio , founded Pizza Patron                --
Patron roughly translates to “boss” -- in 1986 in Dallas. He
expanded the company through franchising and still is the sole
owner. Sales at Pizza Patron have jumped 77 percent during the
past five years to about $42.5 million in 2011, while  Pizza
Hut (YUM) ’s U.S. revenue has increased 4.9 percent during the same
time, according to Chicago-based researcher Technomic Inc.  Chorizo Pizza  Pizza Patron attracts Hispanics, who make up about 65
percent of its customers, by selling chorizo-topped pizzas,
QuesoStix breadsticks, lime-and-pepper chicken wings and churros
for dessert. The chain, which doesn’t advertise in English and
doesn’t deliver, also sets up “tienditas” -- 5-by-5
tents that serve as little shops to hawk pizza outside apartment
complexes. Large pepperoni pies go for $4.99 to help Pizza
Patron compete with value-focused brands such as Little Caesars,
the fourth-largest U.S. pizza chain by sales, according to
Technomic.  Splashed with bright reds and yellows, the Pizza Patron
eateries also play contemporary Latin music both inside and
outside the store. In Cicero, the unopened restaurant’s windows
last month were covered with a giant print of a 200-peso bill
that said “Get ready to pull out your money” in Spanish.  Dessert Advertising  Still, the chain has stumbled a few times with its Spanish
advertising. In  Florida , it had to change the name of its
caramel churros filling to “dulce de leche” because Cuban
customers there found the original wording sexually suggestive,
while Mexican Americans weren’t offended, said Andrew Gamm,
Pizza Patron’s brand director. In  Chicago , the menu and ads may
require tweaking in neighborhoods primarily populated with
Puerto Ricans, he said.  Pizza Patron has a “fighting chance” of making it in
Chicago, which already is crowded with pizza joints, said Bob Goldin, executive vice president at Technomic.  “The products are somewhat different,” he said. “They’re
not just saying we’re going to give you a Pizza Hut approach and
put salsa on one of our pizzas and say that’s our Mexican
pizza.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  