-- Climate Change Reducing Global GDP by $1.2 Trillion
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-09-26T21:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/climate-change-reducing-global-gdp-by-1-6-a-year-report-finds.html
Climate change  and pollution
related to carbon-dioxide emissions are reducing the world’s
gross domestic product by 1.6 percent a year, about $1.2
trillion, according to a report.  If unchecked, rising temperatures may cut global GDP by 3.2
percent a year by 2030, according to the Climate Vulnerability
Monitor, from by the Madrid-based humanitarian group  DARA  and
the Climate Vulnerable Forum.  As the economic impact of climate change grows, so will the
cost of curbing it, according to leaders of developing nations
who spoke at an event in  New York  today.  “What is possible with $100 billion today, will cost ten
times more in 2030,”  Bangladesh  Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed said during the panel discussion, part of the Climate Week
NYC conference. Her country is part of the Climate Vulnerable
Forum, a group of developing nations threatened by climate
change.  A warming planet will have a disproportionate effect on
 developing countries , especially low-income states such as
Bangladesh that have high population density and fewer natural
resources. Low-lying coastal regions also face the prospect of
being submerged as the oceans rise, she said.  This will affect  food production  and drive up prices, she
said. Climate change may cut GDP in some developing nations by
as much as 11 percent by 2030.  Those losses far exceed the cost of reducing emissions,
which the report estimated at about 0.5 percent of GDP over the
next decade.  ‘Side Effect’  Some people dismiss the gradual loss of some small islands
as a “side effect” of development, said Maldives President
Mohamed Waheed. That view doesn’t take into account the impact
on the global community, such as finding new homes for displace
populations. “We are all on the same sinking boat.”  Climate change was responsible for about 5 million deaths
in 2010, including 400,000 related to hunger and diseases and
4.5 million from air pollution, according to the report.  Tackling climate changing emissions offers an economic
opportunity, former Costa Rican President Jose Maria Figueres
said on the panel discussion. His country gets 92 percent of its
power from renewable sources. “There is a lot of low-hanging
fruit that can be transformed into jobs, new business models,
opportunity for investment and ways in which to finance
development,” he said.  $1 Trillion Invested  Investment in clean energy passed more than $1 trillion
last year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, driven in
part by international efforts to curb climate change and develop
global policies. That “would not have been there if we didn’t
have this nagging process,”  Christiana Figueres , executive
secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change and the sister of  Costa Rica ’s former leader, said at
another event yesterday.  Global agreements would spur private support from investors
who want predictability in regulation, she said. “The issue is
more urgent and more deeply impacting than we had ever
thought.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  