-- Clinton Stresses Partnership, Support for Mideast in Transition
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-09-26T21:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/clinton-stresses-partnership-support-for-mideast-in-transition.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
told a  United Nations  meeting on  Middle East  peace and security
today that partnerships and commitment are required to help the
region find stability.  “Emerging democracies need champions, not fair-weather
friends,” Clinton said today, describing meetings she’s held
with leaders from Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, and Yemen on the
margins of the annual UN General Assembly in New York. “I
expressed to each of them America’s unwavering support for their
country’s continued journey along the democratic path.”  Clinton praised work by Germany to increase cooperation
between the Arab League and the United Nations, which together
appointed a joint special envoy to seek a diplomatic solution to
the violence in Syria.  The U.S. is one of 28 countries and international
organizations working through the Deauville Partnership to
support democratic transitions in the Middle East and North
Africa.  Yesterday, the top American diplomat announced a new
professional and cultural exchange program to bring  Arab League 
officials together with their U.S. counterparts.  “I believe in the potential of multilateral
organizations,” Clinton said, “and as secretary of state, I
have made it a priority to deepen our engagement with regional
organizations that are playing a growing role in world events,
from the  African Union  to ASEAN to the Arab League.”  Arab League Secretary General Nabil El-Arabi said the
exchange was “very important” to the group and that U.S.
leadership is vital to the Middle East.  “Most of our, I would say, problems depend on what the
United States will do to resolve them,” al-Arabi said in public
remarks yesterday. “Just to refer to Palestine, we need the
United States participation. Now we have Syria; we need United
States participation, active participation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  New York  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  