-- Cnooc Said to Send Term Sheet to Banks for $6 Billion Nexen Loan
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-09-26T04:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/cnooc-said-to-send-term-sheet-to-banks-for-6-billion-nexen-loan.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883)  sent documents to banks
containing proposed terms for a $6 billion loan as it seeks to
acquire Canada’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  in the biggest overseas takeover by
a Chinese company, a person familiar with the matter said.  China’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer has
approached a range of banks including lenders from  Singapore ,
China,  Australia , Europe and the U.S., the person said, asking
not to be identified because the details are private. Citigroup
Inc. is Cnooc’s financial adviser, the person said.  The Beijing-based company agreed to pay $15.1 billion in
cash in July to acquire Nexen. The Canadian energy producer said
last week that 99 percent of common shareholders voted in favor
of the deal, which still needs approval from Canadian, U.S. and
U.K. governments.  Michelle Zhang, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Cnooc,
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment on the financing
when called and e-mailed at her office today.  Cnooc is offering to pay an upfront 25 basis-point fee for
the 12-month facility with no limits on commitment size, the
person said, citing details from the term sheet. The margin on
the loan starts at 80 basis points more than the London
interbank offered rate for the first six months, before
increasing to 100 basis points for the next three months and 120
basis points for the final period, the person said.  Banks have been asked to respond by Oct. 16, the person
said. Cnooc is considering eventually refinancing the bridge
loan with proceeds from a bond sale, two other people familiar
with the matter said Sept. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  