-- Coming Pension War Makes Election Battle Look Tame
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-09-26T22:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/coming-pension-war-makes-election-battle-look-tame.html
It’s a taxpayer divide. That’s the
takeaway since the tape was leaked of  Mitt Romney  referring to
the 47 percent of citizens who don’t pay income taxes.  The Republican presidential candidate described a large
political gap between those who pay the  tax  and those who don’t,
and those who wouldn’t vote for him, “no matter what.” This
line was  perceived  as cold, and his campaign has been
apologizing ever since.  But the fuss obscures a reality. The tax gap isn’t the
deepest divide in America. The deepest gap is the pension
divide, between those few who have a  guaranteed cushion  in the
form of defined-benefit pensions, which promise a fixed annuity
at retirement, and those who don’t. How the candidates address
this divide, cultural as well as political, is crucial, far
beyond November.  To understand the current mindset, it helps to consider
the pension culture of the past. Back in the early 1980s, many
companies, as well as governments, offered employees a defined-
pension benefit when they retired. Thirty years ago, about 62
percent of American workers were  covered  by some kind of plan
like this.  Even then, however, companies routinely siphoned off the
funds’ surpluses for purposes other than pensions. Pension
returns themselves looked modest relative to the incredible
 interest rates  offered in the money market. But federal law
prevented workers in private plans from pouring their pension
money into tax-deferred vehicles. A defined-benefit pension felt
like a prison.  Retirement Revolution  The power of this sentiment becomes clear when you recall
what happened in January 1982, when lawmakers opened what
seemed, at the time, a small window in that prison. The law
changed so that private-pension employees might place cash in
tax-deferred vehicles for retirement.  “A barrage of advertisements is stirring public interest
in the new program of tax-deferred  retirement plans , known as
the individual retirement accounts, or I.R.A.’s,”  wrote  New
York  Times reporter  Karen Arenson . Brokerage houses couldn’t
answer the phones fast enough. One firm,  T. Rowe Price Group
Inc. (TROW)  of Baltimore, reported receiving 1,500 inquiries a day.  In short, Americans busted right through that window and
made it a big door to a new heaven, that of defined-contribution
pensions you managed yourself. In January 1982, the 18-month
fixed rate at Chemical Bank was  14.25 percent  on a minimum
investment of $250. Even teachers could get in on the bargain.
At the Nassau Educators Federal Credit Union, the variable rate
was 15 percent, no minimum investment. It was no surprise that
401(k) plans and IRAs grew quickly. “Heck, we are just
diversifying,” the new investors told themselves. After all,
they did have a fallback: the sure annuity of the government’s
 Social Security .  Of course, some chose jobs with old-fashioned annuity
pensions, such as teacher or fireman. But the defined-
contribution crowd took the steady-as-you-go crowd for fools.
For many years, market circumstances conspired to support their
assumption. Money rates were never as high again. As it
happened, 1982 also marked the beginning of the great stock-
market rally, and the defined-contribution crowd eventually
shifted blithely to equities.  Over time, companies got out of the defined-benefit model,
and the truism that it was for government employees became true.
By 2009, the last year for which data are available, only  16
percent  of private-sector workers were active participants in
defined-benefit plans, compared with 74 percent of public-sector
workers, according to  Sylvester Schieber , the author of “The
Predictable Surprise,” a recent book on pensions.  Pension Envy  Today, it is the teachers who laugh and the defined-
contribution crowd who feel like fools or prisoners. The high
interest rates that made IRAs sizzle in the early 1980s are
gone.  The snapshot stock returns that brokers and indexes get
often elude individuals. Current public employees seem fairly
confident they will receive those pensions, and that confidence
is not lost on the rest of a shaken electorate. Everyone else
covets what those police officers have. The pension check that
government staffers will get is all the more attractive because
Social Security, the one fallback for those without a defined-
benefit plan, is expected to suffer a shortfall of trillions.  The great perversity here is that the promises of the
defined-benefit plans from states and towns aren’t part of the
market economy. In 2010, the gap between state assets and what
they  owed  in pensions was $757 billion. The public-pension funds
can bet on high-risk investments, because if the gamble pays
off, great, but if it bombs, the taxpayer who has no defined-
benefit plan has to make up the difference anyway. Meanwhile,
 Illinois  has floated bonds to pay out its pensions, which
Schieber likens to “using your  credit card  to pay your
mortgage.”  Yet the darker the future, the stronger the denial. For all
these reasons, the tension between defined-benefit folks on the
one hand and everyone else only grows. The IRA and 401(k) people
are talking breakup, as in the Taylor Swift song: “We are never
ever ever getting back together.” They are angry because they
believe the public-sector unions have it too easy.  The reality is that a big public-pension crash, which will
eventually occur no matter who wins the election, will make
clear that the government employees won’t get what is promised.
It will reveal the truth: We are all in the same boat fiscally
and even financially. President  Barack Obama ’s strategy is to
keep up the denial until Election Day. The main hope Romney has
is to showcase this reality before the election. Of course, he
can’t do that, if he is too busy apologizing.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on bringing back  Build America
Bonds  and on judging  Georgia’s Saakashvili ;  Caroline Baum  on
 Romney’s best chance to win ;  Michael Kinsley  on  Romney’s
incompetence ;  Ezra Klein  on  undecided voters ;  Jeff Rubin  on
whether  high oil prices  will save the planet;  Stephen Smith  on
how Republicans derail  Amtrak privatization .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  