-- Copper Declines on Concern Global Stimulus Won’t Revive Growth
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2012-09-26T07:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/copper-declines-on-concern-global-stimulus-won-t-revive-growth.html
Copper dropped on concern that
stimulus measures announced by central banks from the U.S. to
 Japan , won’t be enough to bolster global economic growth,
curbing demand prospects for industrial metals.  Copper for delivery in three months lost as much as 1.1
percent to $8,185 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange and
traded at $8,200 at 4:15 p.m. in  Tokyo . The metal is up 7.7
percent this month, the most since January. December-delivery
metal lost 0.6 percent to $3.7375 a pound on the Comex.  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles
Plosser  said yesterday that more bond purchases by the U.S.
central bank probably won’t boost growth. Japan’s biggest
manufacturers grew more pessimistic this quarter as  China ’s
slowdown and Europe’s debt crisis sapped exports, according to a
Bloomberg survey ahead of a data release next week.  “I expect copper to trend lower in the next couple of
weeks,” said Zhang Tianfeng, an analyst at Dongxing Futures Co.
“There’s no improvement in the physical market.”  The Fed announced a third round of stimulus on Sept. 13,
and the Bank of Japan said last week it will add to a fund that
buys assets. Copper inventories at bonded warehouses in  Shanghai 
have probably risen to a record 650,000 tons, according to a
Bloomberg survey of traders, analysts and warehouse managers.  The  Bank of Japan ’s Tankan survey will show Oct. 1 that
 business confidence  fell to -4, the fourth quarter pessimists
outnumbered optimists, according to the median of 12 estimates
in the survey. That would mark the longest string of negative
readings since Japan emerged from the global recession in 2010.  January-delivery copper closed little changed at 59,150
 yuan  ($9,381) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange, set for a
quarterly advance. Financial markets in China, the biggest
consumer, will be closed next week for the National Day holiday.  On the LME, aluminum, tin, zinc, nickel and lead declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  