-- Corporate Defaults Continue Climb on Europe’s Woes, S&P Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2012-09-26T11:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/corporate-defaults-continue-climb-on-europe-s-woes-s-p-says-1-.html
Corporate defaults have risen in
 Europe  and may climb further because of economic and political
uncertainty, deteriorating growth and looming debt maturities,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a report.  S&P’s speculative-grade default rate rose to 5.3 percent at
the end of the second quarter, from 4.7 percent at the end of
March, the ratings company said. The trailing 12-month default
rate will increase to 6.3 percent by the end of June 2013 and
could surge to more than 8 percent if Europe’s recession is
worse than expected, report author  Paul Watters  said.  “Our base-case view is that Europe will have a shallow
recession till late-2013 with zero percent economic growth”
that year, Watters said in a telephone interview today. S&P’s
most pessimistic forecast for 2013 sees negative 1.9 percent
gross domestic product growth in the euro area, a level that
could tip defaults beyond 8 percent.  Nine companies rated BB+ or below have defaulted in the
three months to June 30, S&P said, as economic growth in Europe
remains sluggish. Investor optimism, spurred by European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s decision this month to approve
unlimited government bond purchases, is waning, with European
governments slow to agree to measures to tackle the crisis.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with
mostly high-yield credit ratings today rose as much as 31 basis
points to 582, extending its climb from year-lows earlier this
month. Credit default indexes typically rise as investor
confidence deteriorates and fall as it improves. The swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Legacy LBOs  The ECB’s bond-buying program has helped stabilize
peripheral countries’ sovereign markets, improving access to
funding for corporates and reducing the risk of a larger
increase in defaults, Watters said.  S&P forecasts the default rate to remain elevated with
refinancings and so-called amend-and-extend requests limited to
borrowers with a single-B credit grade or higher, according to
the report.  “Investors aren’t going to buy everything -- they want to
see that the company on a realistic budget is going to be able
to generate positive free  cash flow ,” Watters said. “We don’t
think investors are amenable to buying out the banks for these
credits at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  