-- Czech Cabinet Eases Ban on Liquor Sales After Methanol Killed 26
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-09-26T20:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/czech-cabinet-eases-ban-on-liquor-sales-after-methanol-killed-26.html
The Czech government agreed to ease
a ban on the sale of liquor, allowing bars and stores to offer
some spirits after drinks laced with methyl-alcohol killed 26
people in the past three weeks.  Health Minister Leos Heger will announce tomorrow that
alcohol produced before 2012 may be sold, Premier Petr Necas
told reporters in Prague today. Retailers and hospitality
businesses will be allowed to sell beverages made since Jan. 1
after securing a certificate of origin, Necas said. The new
rules will take effect once Heger announces them.  The strictest nationwide liquor ban in 20 years hurt liquor
makers such as Paris-based  Pernod Ricard SA (RI) , which owns the
Czech liqueur Becherovka, and is costing the government in lost
 tax revenue . About 20 million bottles were locked up in
warehouses after authorities imposed the prohibition Sept. 14.  Police on Sept. 24 said they found the source of methyl-
alcohol used to lace beverages and charged two men with public
endangerment, with a possible jail sentence of as many as 20
years. Prosecutors may also seek an “exceptional punishment,”
according to state prosecutor Roman Kafka.  The men intentionally provided the mixture of methyl-
alcohol and ethanol in order to enrich themselves, and the main
suspect is a 42-year-old man from the eastern region of
Moravskoslezsko, according to Kafka.  Cheaper methyl-alcohol maximizes  profits  for the producers
and distributors. Such spirits are also sold without a
government liquor-tax stamp.  Authorities are still searching for about 15,000 liters of
tainted liquor, Police President Martin Cervicek said, warning
against the consumption of any spirits of doubtful origin.  The ban is hurting the  budget  as the state collects about
750 million koruna ($39 million) a month in taxes from hard
liquor sales, according to Ladislav Mincic, a deputy finance
minister. A longer ban would “complicate” efforts to cut the
budget gap, he said on Sept. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  