-- Dean Considers Selling Morningstar Milk-Product Business
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-09-26T20:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/dean-considers-selling-morningstar-milk-product-business-1-.html
Dean Foods Co. (DF) , the largest U.S.
dairy processor, is considering the sale of its Morningstar  unit 
that produces  milk products  for retailers and restaurants.  Dean hasn’t identified a buyer yet for the segment, which
makes and sells ice cream mixes, coffee creamers and whipped
toppings, Jamaison Schuler, a spokesman for the Dallas-based
company, said in an e-mail today. Trading of the shares was
temporarily halted after Reuters reported Dean hired  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  to advise on the sale.  The potential sale of this unit may be part of Dean’s
broader strategy to focus on subsidiary WhiteWave Foods Co.,
which makes Silk soy milk and International Delight coffee
creamer, and the Alpro unit in  Europe , said  Vicki Bryan , a New
York-based analyst for Gimme Credit LLC. On Aug. 7 Dean said
it’s planning an initial public offering for a stake in its
WhiteWave Foods unit to raise $300 million.  “It makes sense for the company to focus on their more
aggressive core strategy to build national brands and free up
capital that could be invested in WhiteWave, which is doing
well,” Bryan said in a telephone interview today  Morningstar may be sold for about the same amount it brings
in every year in sales, she said. The unit made up $1.3 billion,
or 10 percent, of Dean’s $13 billion in sales last year and 15
percent of operating income, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. WhiteWave comprised 16 percent of Dean’s sales and 31
percent of operating income.  ‘Difficult Conditions’  Dean has struggled recently to boost profits at Morningstar
and its Fresh Dairy Direct unit as the weak economy slowed dairy
consumption and retailers discounted private-label milk, Chief
Executive Officer and Chairman Gregg Engles said on Aug. 8.
“The industry has been through two and a half years of quite
difficult economic conditions,” he said.  Dean will only sell Morningstar “if we can do so in a
transaction that maximizes  shareholder value  and ensures the
future success of the business,” Schuler said.  The shares rose 5.5 percent to $16.23 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  