-- Deutsche Bank’s Lehr Quits for Hedge Fund With Associates
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-09-26T16:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/deutsche-bank-s-lehr-leaves-to-form-hedge-fund-with-associates.html
Hal Lehr, a managing director and
global head for cross-commodity trading at  Deutsche Bank (DBK)  AG,
resigned to form a hedge fund in  New York  with three of his
former associates.  Lehr, who previously worked at Soros Fund Management LLC,
left the  Frankfurt-based bank  last month with three “core
investor professionals,” he said by telephone from New York
yesterday. He declined to provide further details on the fund.  Lehr was hired by Deutsche Bank, Europe’s biggest lender by
assets, in 2010 to form a cross-commodity trading team, which
focuses on investments in a portfolio of metals, energy and
crops.  “My team and I left to launch a hedge fund later this
year,” Lehr said. “We really enjoyed our time at Deutsche and
hope to continue the relationship from the client side.”  Amanda Williams , a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank in New
York, declined to comment on the departures.  Lehr’s team at Deutsche was created to handle large
investments in commodities without distorting prices with sudden
inflows of cash, he said in a May 2011 interview.  Prior to working for Deutsche and Soros, Lehr worked as a
portfolio manager at Caxton Associates LP and as a strategist
for John Levin & Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hedge Funds  Barclays Plc lost most of its gas and power trading team to
competitors and  hedge funds  over the past 18 months, in part
because of bonus caps, limits on the amount traders can risk and
shrinking revenue from the division that includes commodities.  Commodity traders and bankers starting hedge funds in
recent months include Paul Crone, a former head trader at
Touradji Capital Management LP; Jean Bourlot, a former head of
commodities at UBS AG;  Neal Shear , who spent 25 years at Morgan
Stanley; and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc’s (GS)  Taimur Hassan.  Crone started a metals hedge fund in New York this year,
while Bourlot and Shear helped to found London-based Higgs
Capital Management LLP, which trades metals, energy and
agricultural commodities. Hassan founded Frere Hall Capital
Management, also in  London , according to regulatory filings.  Assets under management at commodity hedge funds rose $1.11
billion to $84.14 billion at the end of July as returns more
than offset outflows from investor withdrawals, according to the
New York-based researcher eVestment|HFN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  or
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  