-- Dexia Gets Four-Month Extension of Government Funding Backstops
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-09-26T10:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/dexia-gets-four-month-extension-of-government-funding-backstops.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian lender
that’s being broken up, received European Union approval for a
second extension of funding guarantees from Belgium, France and
Luxembourg that are eroding the bank’s remaining capital.  The 55 billion euros ($70.8 billion) of government
backstops that were due to expire on Sept. 30 have been extended
until Jan. 31, the Brussels-based European Commission said today
in a statement. Dexia has tapped as much as 51 billion euros of
the temporary guarantees and still has 19.9 billion euros of
additional government-backed debt outstanding from a 2008
agreement, Belgian central bank  data  show.  Dexia’s reliance on temporary guarantees and emergency
central-bank loans to refinance its  assets  comes at a cost that
may sooner or later force the bank to seek fresh funds from the
governments. Dexia paid the three nations 313 million euros in
fees for the guarantees in the six months through June,
exacerbating a first-half loss that reduced its regulatory
capital by 14 percent to 7.36 billion euros, or 325 million
euros above the minimum threshold.  “It would be naive to assume that the European Commission
could approve a global plan without an increase or reinforcement
of Dexia’s capital,” Belgian Finance Minister Steven Vanackere
told lawmakers last month in the finance and budget committee of
Parliament’s lower house. “It’s not because we don’t talk about
a recapitalization that the Belgian government isn’t preparing
one.”  Using taxpayer funds to shore up Dexia or its remaining
subsidiary, Dexia Credit Local SA, based in Paris, requires
approval from the European Commission. EU regulators can impose
conditions on the aid. Dexia’s original resolution plan, which
was submitted at the end of March, didn’t include a
recapitalization by the states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  