-- Dhoni Sells Cement as Cricket Propels Expansion: Corporate India
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-27T10:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/dhoni-sells-cement-as-cricket-propels-expansion-corporate-india.html
India Cements Ltd. (ICEM) , which owns the
Chennai Super Kings cricket team, says its association with the
nation’s favorite sport is helping drive sales of the building
material as it expands across the country.  India’s fifth-largest maker of cement, based in the
southern city of Chennai, plans to build plants in  Madhya
Pradesh  and  Himachal Pradesh  states, Joint President of
Corporate Finance V.M. Mohan said in an interview. The Indian
Premier League team, which the company bought in 2008, is led by
the nation’s cricket captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni.  “Though we are a six-decade-old cement company, people now
recognize us as an owner of a cricket team led by Dhoni,” Mohan
said. The success of the team, which was the runner-up in this
year’s tournament, has helped the company add stockists and
establish its network of distributors, he said.  India Cements, which paid $91 million for the cricket team,
is seeking to expand in parts of  Asia ’s third-largest economy
where demand for the construction material is higher in a bid to
boost profitability.  Chennai Super Kings  has won two of the five
IPL tournaments, while Dhoni led the country to victory in the
 World Cup  last year. That success helped the cement maker
attract business partners, according to Ram Gudipati, managing
director of Brand Harvest Consultancy Pvt.  “Cricket is almost omnipresent in this country and when
you associate with cricket, then you are seen as a large-scale
brand,” Gudipati said. Unlike other firms that own teams, such
as  Deccan Chronicle (DECH)  Holdings Ltd. and  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , the
India Cements brand is linked with Chennai Super Kings, helping
the company ride “on the success of the team,” he said.  ‘Liquidity Crisis’  Deccan Chronicle had its contract to manage the Deccan
Chargers franchise canceled by the Board of Control for Cricket
in India after the company failed to sell the team to pay debt.
The publisher of the newspaper by the same name is struggling to
repay debt of 50 billion rupees ($930 million). The company said
last month it’s facing a “liquidity crisis.”  Companies selling a product that “involves an impulse
purchase,” such as a cola, are better suited to benefit from
owning a cricket team, said Naresh Krishnaswamy, head of
strategic planning at advertising company Draft FCB Ulka.  India  Cements has  gained  36 percent in the past year,
exceeding the 12 percent increase in the BSE India Sensitive
Index. The shares rose 4.2 percent to 96.4 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai, its highest since April 29.  ‘Worst Locations’  India Cements, led by N. Srinivasan, who’s also the
president of the cricket board, has the “worst plant
locations” among cement makers covered by V. Srinivasan, an
analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai. Diversifying into
Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh from the existing three
states will improve margins, he said.  The company  forecasts  sales in the year ending March 31
will be unchanged at 9.5 million metric tons because of
oversupply in its markets in  Andhra Pradesh ,  Tamil Nadu  and
Rajasthan.  “The ultimate aim is that we should have our own
manufacturing facility in every place where cement can be
produced in India,” Mohan said. “Cement can be manufactured in
seven or eight states in India. We would like to be a player in
each one of these markets.”  The company reported an  earnings  margin before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of 20.5 percent in the year
ended March 31. That compares with 29 percent at  Madras Cements
Ltd. (MC)  and 22 percent at  UltraTech Cement Ltd. (UTCEM) , India’s biggest
maker of the construction material, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Brand Recall  Cement demand in India may expand if Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s government is able to attract investors to
build roads, ports and power plants. India needs $1 trillion of
investment in infrastructure by 2017 to boost economic growth,
according to the nation’s Planning Commission.  India Cements has had some success in attracting dealers in
Rajasthan because of its ownership of the IPL cricket team led
by Dhoni, according to Vijayaraghavan Swaminathan, an analyst
with Spark Capital Advisors Pte. “It has given a ready foothold
for the company in northern markets.”  Dhoni, 31, has won 56 percent of the one-day matches he has
captained for India, according to Cricinfo.com data. Chennai
Super Kings has played in the finals of four of the five IPL
tournaments since 2008, the most among the nine IPL teams.  Revenue from Chennai Super Kings was at 1.37 billion rupees
in the year ended March 31, according to the India Cements
 annual report .  The IPL team “has given them the platform which is large
enough from a brand visibility perspective,” Brand Harvest’s
Gudipati said. Distributors are saying “there’s lot of recall
for your brand and it is so much easier to penetrate in the
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  