-- Dong Sells $178 Million Wind Link in U.K. to Barclays, Macquarie
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-09-26T13:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/dong-sells-178-million-wind-link-in-u-k-to-barclays-macquarie.html
Dong Energy A/S, the biggest owner
of offshore wind farms, completed its sale of power links at a
wind farm off the English coast to  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  for about 110 million pounds ($178 million).  The assets at the Walney 2 park off Cumbria in northern
 England  go to Blue Transmission Walney 2 Ltd., a group combining
Macquarie Capital Group Ltd. and Barclays Infrastructure Funds
Management Ltd., Dong said today in an e-mailed statement.  The  European Investment Bank  is funding half of the debt
for Blue Transmission’s purchase of the high-voltage links, the
European Union’s lending arm said in another  statement . The rest
is provided by four unspecified commercial lenders, it said.  Blue Transmission was granted a license to own and operate
the link to Walney 2 after bidding run by U.K. energy regulator
Ofgem. The government, seeking to build 18 gigawatts of offshore
wind by 2020 from about 2 gigawatts now, introduced bidding for
associated power links to cut costs for consumers and producers.  Under the system, offshore wind generators can build assets
themselves or have an offshore transmission owner, or Ofto, do
so. If they opt to build, they must shift the assets to an Ofto
after work is complete and before links are operating.  Oftos are chosen through bids. There were about  4 billion
pounds  of applications for the first 1.1 billion pounds of
assets, the Department of Energy and Climate Change said.  Dong holds 50.1 percent of Walney, while  SSE Plc (SSE)  has 25.1
percent and Dutch pension administrator PGGM and the Ampere
Equity Fund managed by Triodos  Investment Management  the rest.
Dong and Blue Transmission agreed an operation and maintenance
contract for the power assets, according to Dong’s statement.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  