-- Dual Multiple Sclerosis Finding May Change Therapy
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-09-26T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/dual-multiple-sclerosis-finding-may-change-therapy.html
A cellular signature seen in the
blood of multiple sclerosis patients may help determine their
likelihood of relapse, potentially influencing which therapy
physicians prescribe, a study found.  Differences in patients’ blood cells delineated them into
two groups, one with a 40 percent lower risk of relapse,
according to research today in the journal Science Translational
Medicine. The findings eventually could help doctors determine
whether to prescribe a drug such as  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s Avonex,
which is moderately effective with fewer side effects, or its
Tysabri, an aggressive therapy with greater safety issues, said
 Philip De Jager , a neurologist at  Harvard Medical School  in
 Boston  and a study author.  Relapsing-remitting MS is the most common form of the
illness, which affects more than 2.1 million people worldwide
and about 400,000 Americans, according to the  National Multiple
Sclerosis Society . Patients with RRMS get attacks that degrade
their neurological function, followed by periods of recovery.  “This study is a very important contribution to developing
the kinds of tools that can help the physician personalize
treatment,” said Timothy Coetzee, chief research officer of the
National  Multiple Sclerosis Society , in a telephone interview.
“The challenge we’ve faced in MS is that for a physician there
isn’t a blood test, like for your cholesterol level,” to
provide information about the disease.  Underlying Cause  Doctors aim to be able to attack multiple sclerosis
similarly to the way cancer is starting to be treated: by
identifying the underlying cause of a patient’s tumor and
selecting a drug tailored to attack it, said Coetzee, whose
group is based in  New York  and Denver.  In MS, being able to determine a patient’s likelihood of
flare-ups may lead doctors to prescribe a more aggressive
treatment earlier, according to  De Jager , who is also an MS
specialist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston.  “If we had information about trying to predict the course
of the disease, that would be very helpful for managing the
patient’s care,” he said in a telephone interview.  The researchers drew on data from a study of the disease
out of Brigham and Women’s, feeding information from 363
patients’ immune cells into a computer program that hunted for
similarities. The analysis turned up two groups of patients,
designated MS(a) and MS(b), separated by cellular differences
and the likelihood of patients experiencing an exacerbation.  Patients in the MS(a) group expressed more genes in T-cell
receptor and B-cell receptor pathways, which play roles in the
immune system, and certain others, the researchers found. Those
were the patients more likely to have an inflammatory event.  Avonex, Copaxone  The groupings held regardless of whether a patient was
taking interferon beta, such as Biogen’s Avonex; glatiramer
acetate, or  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Copaxone; or
were untreated, the researchers found. Further studies are
needed to determine whether a patient’s status remains the same
or fluctuates over time, De Jager said.  Biogen, based in Weston,  Massachusetts , drew $2.7 billion
in sales of Avonex last year and $1.1 billion for Tysabri.  The latter drug, given by infusion, is associated with a
danger of contracting a brain infection called progressive
multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Biogen has developed a test to
help determine patients’ risk. The company has a pill for MS,
BG-12, currently being weighed for approval by regulators.  In addition to Teva’s Copaxone, available MS therapies
include  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya, the first pill approved for the
disease;  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Aubagio, another pill cleared earlier this
month; Bayer AG’s Betaseron and Merck KGaA’s Rebif. More
treatments are in development.  The next step after validating today’s study results is
translating the findings into a clinical test, the MS Society’s
Coetzee said.  “The notion of being able to tailor therapy based on a
person’s transcriptional profile is very exciting for MS,”
Coetzee said. “That’s the next frontier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  