-- Mechel Leads Micex Declines on Asset Sale Concern: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-09-26T15:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/mechel-leads-micex-declines-on-asset-sale-concern-moscow-mover.html
OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  dropped, leading the
declines on Russia’s benchmark stock gauge, on concern the
largest producer of steelmaking coal may not be able to sell its
assets and  reduce debt  quickly.  Mechel plunged 5.4 percent to 216 rubles by the close in
Moscow, its biggest drop since June 22. The Micex Index lost 2.5
percent.  The board recommended considering the sale of a stake in
OAO Mechel-Mining to help fund the Elga project, the company’s
biggest coal development, Mechel said yesterday in a statement.
Mechel will also try to divest other assets in eastern Europe,
Russia and  Kazakhstan .  The sales “will not be an easy task under current market
conditions and could take several years,”  Troika Dialog ’s
analyst  Mikhail Stiskin  said in an e-mailed report.  Mechel is seeking funds to reduce borrowings, which totaled
$9.6 billion at the end of the first quarter, making it one of
Russia’s most indebted miners. The Moscow-based company approved
a sale strategy in May, without identifying assets.  Mechel, controlled by billionaire  Igor Zyuzin , has had
preliminary contact with Asian companies, testing their interest
in buying a minority stake in OAO Mechel-Mining or its division
running the Elga coal project, three people with knowledge of
the matter said on Sept. 14, asking not to be identified because
the plans are private. Should Mechel find a partner to buy into
the unit, it would sell no more than 25 percent, the people
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  