-- Egypt’s Mursi Challenges Israel, Claims Arab Leadership
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-09-27T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/egypt-s-mursi-challenges-israel-claims-arab-leadership.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
staked a claim for his country’s renewed leadership of the Arab
world by calling for changes in the global economic system and
indirectly challenging  Israel  for possessing a nuclear arsenal.  “The will of the people, especially in our region, no
longer tolerates the continued non-accession of any country to
the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and the non-application of
the safeguards regime to their nuclear facilities, especially if
this is coupled with irresponsible policies or arbitrary
threats,” Mursi told the annual meeting of the  United Nations
General Assembly  in New York yesterday.  Israel, which is not an NPT signatory, has never
acknowledged that it possesses nuclear weapons, although U.S.
intelligence officials estimate it has as many as 200.  Mursi’s speech, his first before the UN, put the world on
notice that  Egypt  intends to play a larger role internationally
and on its own terms. He challenged the current global order,
demanding reform of an economic system burdened by “unfair
trade rules” and decisions made by a few. He also made clear
that Muslims are tired of what he called “Islamophobia.”  “The New Egypt is determined to regain its standing among
nations and assume an effective role in global issues, stemming
from the will of its people, as well as the legitimacy on which
its regime is founded,” Mursi said. This position is Egypt’s
birthright, he declared, rooted in “its ancient and modern
history, its Arabic and Islamic spheres, as well as its African
identity.”  Uncompromising Tone  The uncompromising tone of Mursi’s speech underscored the
challenge the U.S. faces as it negotiates a new relationship
with Egypt, for 40 years a predictable, if autocratic, ally
until the fall of President  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011.  While U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration supports
the so-called Arab Spring movement, Mubarak’s regime had suited
the U.S. in pragmatic terms. It maintained the Egypt-Israel
peace treaty and U.S. military access through the  Suez Canal  to
the  Persian Gulf .  Mursi addressed concerns about whether Egypt’s new
leadership will honor its 1979 peace treaty with Israel,
assuring “those wondering about our position vis-a-vis the
international agreements and conventions that we have previously
adhered to: We are committed to what we have signed on.”  Even so, in a speech that never referred to Israel by name,
Mursi underscored the fact that he’ll be demanding change on
Egyptian terms.  ‘More Prickly’  “He clearly was putting Israelis on notice that the new
Egypt will be more prickly in rejecting any pretense to
‘exceptionalism,’ whether by the U.S. or Israel,” Jeff Laurenti, a UN analyst at the Century Foundation in  New York ,
said in an e-mail.  Beyond seeking legitimacy as a spokesman for the post-
revolutionary Arab world, Mursi, the first Egyptian civilian
president elected democratically and freely, was also explicit
that he addressed the UN as a Muslim leader, Laurenti said.  “There was a special slant, too, to be read in his opening
remarks: ‘I salute you in the name of Islam,’” he said.  In recent months, Israel has warned that it may attack
 Iran ’s nuclear facilities if it thinks the Iranian government is
getting too close to developing an atomic weapon. Iran, whose
known facilities are under international safeguards to prevent
arms production, insists its program is for civilian use.  Mursi delivered a rebuke on the issue that seemed directed
to the U.S. and Obama, who said during his Sept. 25 to the
General Assembly that the U.S. would do whatever it takes to
keep Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, warning that the time
for diplomacy isn’t unlimited.  Law of Jungle  “The acceptance by the international community of the
principal of pre-emptiveness, or the attempt to legitimize it,
is in itself a serious matter and must be firmly confronted to
avoid the prevalence of the law of the jungle,” Mursi said.  The Egyptian president signaled that he intends to make the
drive to confront Israel and Iran over nuclear weapons a
regional effort. He called for an international conference
before the end of 2012 “on achieving a  Middle East  free of
nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction.” He
said the initiative would involve “the participation of all
concerned parties without exception.”  Peaceful nuclear energy use within the framework of the
non-proliferation treaty is a right of all countries, he said.
Israel and Iran simply need “to provide the necessary
guarantees to the countries of the region so as to remove any
doubts surrounding their intentions.”  ‘Palestinian Cause’  Mursi also catalogued a number of regional problems,
touching on the plight of Palestinians, Syrians, Somalis and
Sudanese as he claimed the mantle of leadership and offered
Egypt’s outlook on how these issues should be resolved.  The world’s priority, he declared, is the “Palestinian
cause.” Mursi said it is “shameful” and “disgraceful” for a
member of the international community -- a reference to Israel -
- “to deny the rights of a nation” and continue to build
settlements.  The violence that the Syrian regime is inflicting on its
people, whom Mursi described as “dear to our hearts,” must be
stopped, he said. He mentioned an Egyptian initiative to
facilitate a transfer of power from the regime of President
Bashar al-Assad to a democratic government. Underscoring his
Muslim credentials, Mursi said he unveiled the proposal in the
holy city of Mecca.  Mursi also said more must to be done to resolve the
differences between South  Sudan , the world’s newest country, and
Sudan, where disputes over territory and energy resources
threaten to undermine a peace that’s barely taken hold.  Economic Criticism  Chastising Western diplomacy, Mursi said he had to “be
frank” and point out that Sudan, which ceded oil-rich
territories to the South, “has not received the support it
deserves.” Sudan is predominately Arab and Muslim, while  South
Sudan  is largely Animist and Christian.  Mursi’s challenge to the Western-dominated world order was
clearest when he discussed the global economic system.  “The severity and recurrence of financial and economic
crises, must lead us to review the international economic
decision-making process that affects the fate of peoples that do
not participate in their formulations, yet are the first to bear
their negative consequences on growth, trade, the environment,
as well as on the social fabric of society,” Mursi said.  He singled out trade rules, conditions imposed on
technology-transfer agreements and financing for development.
Egypt is negotiating with the  International Monetary Fund  for a
$4.8 billion loan as it struggles to resuscitate an economy
battered by the political upheaval.  Fiscal Gap  Egypt expects to miss a budget-deficit target of 7.6
percent of gross domestic product this fiscal year, Finance
Minister Momtaz El-Saieed said last month. The fiscal gap
reached 11 percent of GDP last year, while the nation’s net
international reserves still are less than half the level before
last year’s revolt.  “There is a need for a new global economic governance,”
Mursi said.  He concluded with a demand that the world show Muslims more
respect and less discrimination and refrain from insisting they
adhere to a world view they don’t share.  “We expect from others, as they expect from us, that they
respect our cultural particularities and religious points of
reference,” Mursi said, “and not seek to impose concepts that
are unacceptable to us or politicize certain issues and use them
as a pretext to intervene in the affairs of others.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in New York at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  