-- Emerging Stocks Drop to 2-Week Low on Growth Concerns
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-09-26T21:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/emerging-stocks-drop-to-2-week-low-on-growth-concerns.html
Developing-nation stocks fell,
pushing the benchmark index down the most in two months, as
falling  commodities  prices dragged down resource stocks and a
U.S. Federal Reserve official said debt purchases probably won’t
spur growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated 1.1 percent to
990.37 at the close of trading in New York, the biggest decline
since July 23. Energy and raw-materials companies sank the most
among  10 industry groups  as oil tumbled. Brazil’s Bovespa index
was little changed, sliding less than 0.1 percent. China’s
 benchmark index  fell to a three-year low while equity gauges in
Russia and the Czech Republic lost more than 2 percent as
concern deepened that Spain will struggle to resolve its debt
crisis.  New bond buying announced by the Fed this month probably
won’t boost growth in the world’s largest economy and may
jeopardize the central bank’s credibility, Fed Bank of
Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said yesterday. While the
 MSCI index  jumped 3.3 percent the day after the Fed announced
its third round of asset purchases on Sept. 13, the gauge has
since retreated 2.3 percent.  “Emerging market equities got a boost from quantitative
easing measures, but in the last week we’ve seen it fade,”
Morgan Harting, a portfolio manager at AllianceBernstein
Investments Inc., managing about $100 million in assets, said by
phone from New York. “Reality is setting in that the underlying
economic trends are weak.”  Economic research indicates that additional asset purchases
are “unlikely to reduce long-term  interest rates  by a
significant amount” and that lowering rates “by a few more
basis points” won’t spur growth and hiring, Plosser, who
doesn’t have a vote on Fed policy this year, said yesterday.  EM ETF Slumps  The  iShares MSCI   Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.5
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 3.4 percent.  The 21 nations in the MSCI index send about 13 percent of
their exports to the U.S. on average, according to the  World
Trade Organization . The emerging-market gauge has climbed 5.7
percent so far this quarter, compared with a 5.2 percent
increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The Bovespa extended yesterday’s losses amid concern that a
worsening debt crisis in Europe will curb demand for Brazilian
equities. Mining company  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3)  followed
metals lower, declining 1.9 percent to a three-week low.  Fibria
Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s largest pulp maker, sank 6.3 percent.  Commodities Sink  The  UBS Bloomberg CMCI index  of 26 raw materials tumbled
1.2 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index retreated 1.2 percent today to
the lowest level since January 2009. BYD Co., the Chinese
carmaker partly owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., sank 9.8 percent in  Hong Kong  after CLSA Asia Pacific
Markets cut its price estimate by 94 percent.  Russia’s Micex plunged 2.5 percent and the ruble weakened
0.9 percent against the dollar.  “The string of weak economic data globally has continued
to weigh on emerging markets in recent sessions,”  Nick Chamie ,
global head of foreign-exchange strategy and emerging markets
research at Royal Bank of Canada, said in a phone interview from
Toronto. “The ongoing concerns around Europe seem to be
dragging down sentiment.”  Oil Retreats  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas-export monopoly, dropped 2.1
percent and PetroChina Co., China’s largest oil producer, sank
1.2 percent. KGHM Polska Miedz SA, Poland’s sole copper
producer, declined 1.3 percent. Oil tumbled 1.5 percent in New
York, reaching the lowest level since Aug. 2.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries increased five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 309, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Index.  Spanish 10-year bond yields climbed above 6 percent. The
leader of Spain’s richest region called early elections
yesterday, seeking greater autonomy after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  rejected his demand for increased control of the region’s
revenue. Police clashed with protesters in Madrid yesterday as
Rajoy struggles to persuade Spaniards to accept the severest
austerity measures on record.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  sank 5.1 percent in Johannesburg.
The world’s third-largest gold producer halted production at all
its South African mines as more workers went on strike.  China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co., the
nation’s biggest developers, dropped more than 1.3 percent after
the southern city of Guangzhou restricted sales of homes before
they are completed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  