-- Empty Seats at UN Signal Decline of World Body Hamstrung by Veto
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-09-26T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/empty-seats-at-un-signal-decline-of-world-body-hamstrung-by-veto.html
While the familiar clashes among
countries echo through the 193-member United Nations General
Assembly hall this week, empty seats will bear mute testimony to
the world body’s waning significance.  Some of the most important leaders --  China ’s Hu Jintao,
Russia’s  Vladimir Putin , Germany’s  Angela Merkel  and Turkey’s
Recep Tayyip Erdogan -- are skipping this year’s annual meeting.
U.S. President  Barack Obama  made only a brief appearance and
didn’t formally meet one-on-one with foreign officials.  The 67-year-old UN’s influence has always been limited by
the veto power of the five permanent members of the  Security
Council . Now, however, global technological, financial,
environmental, social, religious and demographic forces are
further curbing its ability to act and eroding its foundation in
the 17th century concept of sovereign nation-states.  “The concept of a world of nation-states, which dates to
the  Treaty of Westphalia  in 1648, and the idea that they have a
monopoly on international relations and on the conduct of war,
is no longer valid,” said Max Manwaring, a professor at the
Strategic Studies Institute of the U.S. Army War College in
Carlisle,  Pennsylvania . “It’s been replaced by non-state actors
and proxies of states, and public opinion has become the primary
center of gravity. Whatever you can do to manipulate people’s
views is fair game.”  While governments try to preserve their independence,
Islamist terrorist groups, Somali pirates and Mexican drug
cartels, to name a few, have “made a mockery” of the notion
that countries control their own borders, Manwaring said in an
interview.  Obsolete Idea  Built to help nations defuse conflicts before they escalate
to open warfare, the UN is ill-equipped to tackle such
transnational challenges in an Internet age that can flash
financial news and videos throughout the globe faster than the
Security Council can muster a quorum, much less reach a
consensus.  “At a time when anyone with a cell phone can spread
offensive views around the world with the click of a button, the
notion that we can control the flow of information is
obsolete,” Obama said during his speech yesterday to the
General Assembly.  In this increasingly borderless environment, an anti-Islam
video posted on YouTube has sparked a wave of deadly anti-
Western protests across the Muslim world, and the self-
immolation of a 26-year-old Tunisian fruit vendor triggered
rebellions across the  Middle East .  ‘Unprecedented Role’  “Social media have given non-state actors an unprecedented
role in shaping the world’s priorities,” said Ali Wyne, a
research assistant at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for
Science and International Affairs.  At the same time, the financial crisis that began with U.S.
subprime mortgage defaults in 2007 has infected much of the
world.  The diminishing power of nation-states hasn’t gone
unnoticed at the UN. In 1992, then-Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said the UN needed to adapt to remain relevant in
an ever more interdependent world.  “The time of absolute and exclusive sovereignty, however,
has passed; its theory was never matched by reality,” he said
in a report entitled “An Agenda for Peace -- Preventive
Diplomacy, Peacemaking and Peace-keeping.”  Traditional concepts of sovereignty, ideological
differences and international rivalries have always hampered the
UN’s efforts to respond to the rapid evolution of a global
economy and communications technology.  Dismissing PC  Almost three decades ago, in September 1983, the UN and its
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization held a
roundtable in Igls, Austria, on “The New World Information and
Communication Order.” The gathering faltered when the Soviet
delegate dismissed the personal computer as “a matter for the
21st Century.”  Since its birth from the ashes of World War II and the
failure of the  League of Nations , the UN’s ability to help end
crises peacefully has similarly been trumped by the veto power
held by the five permanent members of its most powerful body,
the Security Council -- China,  France , Russia, the U.K., and the
U.S.  The UN decision-making body’s paralysis on sore subjects
such as Iran’s nuclear ambitions,  Syria ’s rebellion, North
Korea’s errant rocket launches, and Palestinian statehood is
nothing new, and diplomats at the world body’s headquarters
don’t expect that to change anytime soon.  Standing By  Over the decades, the UN has suffered a string of similar
failures, from the  Rwandan genocide , to the sexual abuse by UN
peacekeepers in Bosnia and the oil-for-food scandal in  Iraq . In
 Haiti , UN peacekeepers brought in to help after a deadly 2010
earthquake are suspected of having introduced cholera to the
devastated population on the Caribbean island.  Now, as heads of government have converged on New York for
the General Assembly’s annual gathering, the UN has stood by as
turmoil in the Middle East has swept across borders, ousted
longtime rulers, and altered the political landscape in the
region.  In Syria, three Russian vetoes in the Security Council have
relegated the UN’s role to that of impotent observer to the
daily slaughter in an 18-month conflict raging between President
Bashar al-Assad and the armed insurgency.  “The UN often gets the blame, but it’s a futile
exercise,” said Miles Kahler, who teaches international
relations at the  University of California , San Diego.  Hamstrung by Veto  While the UN still has the ability to bring people together
and give them a forum -- most notably at the current General
Assembly -- that isn’t enough. The Security Council moves more
slowly than information does, remains hamstrung by its five
permanent members’ veto power, and has no enforcement authority
of its own.  That nations are now being buffeted by global forces they
can’t control has made many of them even less willing to
cooperate and compromise with one another and quicker to raise
nationalist and protectionist banners.  “The idea of a world government, where states have to cede
sovereignty is not a very popular position these days; just look
at the European Union now,” Manwaring said.  Domestic Preoccupations  For many absent leaders this year, political priorities are
close to home.  Germany’s Merkel has the survival of the European single
currency and the health of the German economy to consider. China
is facing a once-in-a-decade leadership change and acting more
assertively toward its neighbors. Russia’s Putin, last seen in
New York seven years ago, was just re-elected president, and
amid political dissent at home has  tossed out  the U.S. Agency
for International Development.  Even Obama, who re-injected a multilateral approach to
American foreign policy and finally paid the U.S.’s back dues to
the UN, made only a fleeting appearance this year, with his re-
election in November at stake.  That’s left the stage to a fresh crop of Arab leaders
making their debuts at the UN as a wave of anti-American
sentiment grips the region and tests Western perceptions of a
movement that a year ago was met with enthusiasm. More than a
year later, the unemployed youths who took to the streets
clamoring for better economic conditions and living standards
still have no jobs.  Uncharacteristic Timeliness  When the Arab Spring got under way, it looked as if the UN
might have found a new calling.  Acting in rare unison and with uncharacteristic timeliness,
the Security Council approved a resolution authorizing “all
necessary measures” to protect civilians from Libyan dictator
 Muammar Qaddafi , who had threatened to kill his own people
“like rats” to squash a rebellion.  The honeymoon didn’t last. Today an atmosphere of distrust,
suspicion and acrimony hangs over the 15-member council.  While former Russian President Dmitri Medvedev relented to
Western pressure on Libya, abstaining from a critical vote that
paved the way for NATO air attacks, Putin’s return took Russia
back to its time-tested tradition of saying “nyet.”  In 1950, the U.S. was able to circumvent Russia blocking
action in the Security Council to protect South Korea and take
the matter directly to the one-nation, one-vote assembly.  At the height of the  Cold War , there were other moments of
high drama when the two nuclear foes let off steam.  The most famous example was during the 1962 Cuban Missile
Crisis, when in a deathly quiet council chamber, U.S. Ambassador
Adlai Stevenson demanded that his Soviet counterpart answer
whether his country was supplying Cuba with missiles: “I am
prepared to wait for my answer until Hell freezes over.”  Obsolete Structure  The UN remains a platform where powerful nations can slug
it out with words. Witness the clash of ideologies earlier this
year between U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , who accused the West of
“geopolitical engineering” in seeking the overthrow of
incumbents under the pretext of humanitarian aid.  The structure of the UN’s executive arm has grown obsolete,
though, still reflecting a 1945 reality that no longer exists.
France and Britain owe their places in the decision-making body
to their positions on the winning side of World War II.  The influence of both former colonial powerhouses has ebbed
over the decades. Germany, which today holds the fate of the
Euro area in its hands, and India, an Asian economic titan, will
both be bumped off the Security Council at the end of this year.  UN as Scapegoat  The Permanent-5, as veto-wielding China, France, Russia,
the U.K. and the U.S. are known, are in rare agreement about one
thing: keeping permanent membership to the club closed.  “There will be no quick, overnight explosion of
understanding that produces reform,” said Michael Doyle, a
special adviser to  Kofi Annan  when he was secretary-general.
“The 1945 structure has become a legitimacy burden, as it no
longer reflects the major political and economic powers.”  The focus on the Security Council detracts attention from a
lot of the good work carried out by UN agencies in immunizing
children or improving water supplies, said Doyle, who now
teaches international affairs at  Columbia University .  “The UN does make mistakes, but its accomplishments also
get lost,” he said in a telephone interview.  With nothing to replace it, the UN remains the place where
international grievances get aired.  As Annan once said: “S.G. doesn’t stand for secretary-
general, but scapegoat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  