-- Lenovo Counting on China Advantage to Challenge Apple Lead: Tech
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-26T00:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/lenovo-counting-on-china-advantage-to-challenge-apple-lead-tech.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , set to overtake
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  as the biggest PC maker this year, now has
its sights on the smartphone and tablet markets, as it takes on
Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. in  China .  “We want to test the market, see the first steps toward
success in China, then roll out to the rest of world,” Chief
Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said. “We want to win in the
smartphone area and even the TV area.”  The maker of Thinkpad laptops, a business it acquired from
IBM, has added tablets and phones to lessen its dependence on
PCs, taking it into direct competition with the world’s most
valuable company. Yang said Lenovo’s  brand name , product
development and distribution in China will give it an edge over
Apple and other rivals that create devices elsewhere before
selling them in the world’s biggest PC and smartphone market.  Yang is not alone in that view. A China-first strategy
gives Lenovo “the right balance between near-term profitability
and long-term growth,” said Masha Gordon, head of emerging-
market equity portfolio management at Pacific Investment
Management Co. “Lenovo is likely to leverage its global PC
footprint to expand its global presence in these new areas.”  Lenovo already outsells  Apple (AAPL) ’s iPhone in China, where the
Beijing-based company introduced its first touch-screen handset
in 2010. The company’s smartphone shipments in China outpaced
its PC unit sales for the first time in the second quarter,
overtaking the iPhone as well, according to researcher IDC.  Global Stakes  Outside of China, Lenovo will struggle to sell products
that are more distinguished by software they can use rather than
the device itself, said Jean-Louis Lafayeedney, an analyst at JI
 Asia  in Hong Kong.  “I don’t see Lenovo being able to do it, not in the
foreseeable future,” said Lafayeedney, who rates the shares
sell. He said the company lacks the software development power
to lure users away from Apple’s operating system and Samsung,
which sells devices based on Google’s Android.  Apple introduces its best-selling iPhone and iPad in the
U.S. months before they arrive in China. The Cupertino,
California-based company has yet to announce a debut date for
its latest smartphone model in mainland China, after starting
sales of the iPhone 5 Sept. 21 in countries including the U.S.,
 Japan  and  Hong Kong . The iPhone 5 will be available in China by
the end of the year, the company has said.  China Smartphones  Samsung controlled about 19 percent of China’s smartphone
market in the second quarter, the biggest share. Like Lenovo,
the South Korean company offers products through all three of
China’s largest mobile phone carriers.  IPhones aren’t sold to market leader China Mobile Ltd.’s
693 million subscribers, more than the combined populations of
the U.S., Japan and  Brazil .  China will overtake the U.S. as the world’s largest
smartphone market this year, with shipments  climbing 52 percent 
to 137 million, according to market researcher IDC.  Lenovo is spending 5 billion  yuan  ($793 million) to set up
a plant to research and produce mobile devices, it said in May.
The factory will open in October 2013 and will have sales of 10
billion yuan by 2014, quintipling to 50 billion yuan in five
years, the company estimates.  “Our development cycle will be much faster than our
competitors,” said Yang. “Not only are we an innovative
company, we understand  emerging markets . We have a different
strategy.”  Price Spectrum  Lenovo intends to develop products across the price
spectrum, from the latest high-functioning smart TVs to
smartphones priced to compete in emerging markets, said Yang.  “I don’t think every Chinese can afford $400 to $500 for a
smartphone or tablet, but we will develop the appropriate
product for those customers. That will be Lenovo’s advantage.”  A 16 gigabyte version of the newest iPad with 3G service
costs 4,688 yuan at Apple’s online store in China. Lenovo’s
ideatab S2007A 16 gigabyte version with 3G service is 2,499 yuan
at TMall.com.  Yang has also said he intends to use acquisitions to build
the global “four screens” business.  The maker of the Ideaphone smartphone this month agreed to
buy Brazil-based PC, tablet and handset maker Digibras
Participacoes SA in a $147 million deal. Lenovo said on Sept. 18
it agreed to buy Stoneware Inc. of the U.S. to gain cloud-
computing products in its first acquisition of a software
vendor. It didn’t disclose terms.  M&A Growth  Lenovo spent $845 million in five purchases in 2011,
including 466 million euros ($671 million at the time) to take
over Essen, Germany-based PC maker Medion AG, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Lenovo boosted cash and equivalents an average of 30
percent in the past five quarters to $3.8 billion in the three
months ended March 31, in line with Samsung’s 31 percent average
gain, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Apple’s cash and
equivalents dropped an average of 18 percent average across the
three quarters, peaking at $1.3 trillion in the three months
ended March 26, 2011.  Still, buying competitors in emerging markets and spending
on research and development may not be enough to allow Lenovo to
achieve in the mobile market what it has in PCs, where second-
quarter shipments shrank 0.1 percent, according to Gartner Inc.  Software Ecosystem  Unlike the iPhone and iPad, which operate on Apple’s
proprietary software and can access online media through i-
Tunes, Lenovo and smartphone leader Samsung run devices on
Google’s Android operating system.  As more manufacturers compete for tablet sales, control of
the operating system will offer an increasing advantage, said
Lafayeedney of JI Asia. Companies including Samsung and Lenovo,
which mostly depend on Android for mobile devices, will have a
more difficult time distinguishing their products, he said.  “The edge has to come from control of the ecosystem, or
part thereof,” Lafayeedney said in an interview. “That will be
the real challenge, in my view. Progression from a pure hardware
player will be a most difficult leap to make for Lenovo.”  ZTE Corp., China’s second-biggest maker of phone equipment,
said Sept. 19 it plans to release a new mobile operating system
with the developer of the Firefox web browser to compete with
Google Inc.’s Android software.  Shenzen, China-based ZTE is expanding in mobile devices and
cloud computing where sales growth is faster than its
traditional equipment business as the pace of new network
rollouts slows.  TV Convergence  In televisions, where Japan’s former world leaders Sharp
Corp.,  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sony Corp. are reeling from losses
blamed on a demand slump and the strong yen, Lenovo says it
expects to benefit as consumers shift to smart TVs that blur the
distinction between television and PC.  “We have seen and we will see a lot of convergence,” Yang
said by phone from the company’s headquarters in Beijing. “The
smartphone is converging with tablet. The tablet is converging
with the notebook. The all-in-one desktop is converging with the
TV. This will be the trend.”  Investors have pushed Lenovo’s shares up 25 percent this
year in Hong Kong trading, while analysts see a potential pay
off from Yang’s mobile push. The stock is now  rated  buy by 22
analysts tracked by Bloomberg, compared with three who rate it
sell and five hold.  The 12-month average price forecast of HK$7.33 for the
shares would mean a gain of 14 percent from HK$6.45, yesterday’s
price at the close in Hong Kong.  U.S. Market  Lenovo has yet to set a timeframe for its rise to the
“four-screen” top in the U.S., the largest market outside
China.  “For phones, we have a strong presence in China but we’re
not ready for it in  North America , and my job is to get us
ready,” David Schmoock, Lenovo’s president for North America,
said in an interview at his office in Morrisville. “You only
get once chance to launch a product and we want to make sure we
launch it right.”  Lenovo’s timing for entry in the U.S. smartphone and tablet
markets underscores the company’s challenges in taking on the
likes of Apple and Samsung in the mobile business, said Alberto Moel, an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong  “Some people believe Lenovo can take their PC brand and
extend it into smartphones, but that’s not their business,”
said Moel, who rates Lenovo shares the equivalent of hold.
“Lenovo is an incumbent in the PC business, but it’s not even
close in handsets. They are going to have to pay for that,
spending a long time to get to scale in a business it perhaps
shouldn’t be in.”  Mobile Move  Yang has said remaining primarily a PC maker isn’t an
option for the company, given the shift in consumer preference
for smartphones and tablets.  To that end, Yang established Lenovo’s Mobile Internet
Digital Home division last year, which covers the company’s
thrust into phones, tablets and televisions.  The division in May began selling smart televisions in
China that run Google Inc.’s Android 4.0 operating system. The
company in August unveiled three new tablets in its Ideatab
product line that also run Android 4.0.  After one year in operation, the digital home unit reported
that sales almost tripled to $587 million during the first
fiscal quarter, comprising 7 percent of the company’s total
revenue.  “Every PC company has to expand its portfolio to
smartphones and tablets and, ideally, even smart TVs, because
that is the future of devices,” says  Kirk Yang , managing
director for technology research at Barclays Plc in Hong Kong.
“Besides Apple and Samsung, Lenovo is probably the most
successful in broadening their product portfolio. Lenovo is
getting close to their level.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  