-- Esprit New CEO Takes Helm Amid Disappointing Profit
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-09-27T02:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/esprit-declines-after-profit-misses-analysts-estimates.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  welcomed its
newest chief executive with a two-day stock decline and an
analyst downgrade as the apparel retailer’s earnings missed
estimates for the fifth straight year.  As Jose Manuel Martinez Gutierrez took control yesterday,
 the stock  tumbled 7 percent and dropped as much 4.1 percent
today. UOB Kay Hian Ltd. cut its rating on the stock to “sell”
from “hold” after the retailer’s fiscal year profit of HK$873
million ($112.6 million) was below the HK$995.8 million average
 estimate  of 13 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Martinez, a 42-year-old former  Inditex SA (ITX)  executive, must
convince investors, skeptical after the slump in the stock and
the departure of its chairman and chief executive that he has a
plan to turn around declining sales in  Europe  and lure shoppers
from competing brands such as Zara.  “We remain skeptical about the promises made and the hopes
pinned on the transformation plan,” said  Steven Leung , Hong
Kong-based institutional sales director at UOB Kay Hian. “We
aren’t sure if the new CEO will remain committed to the plan or
what kind of strategy he’s going to adopt.”  Price Target  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reduced its price target on the
stock to HK$11 from HK$11.70, as JP Morgan Chase & Co. cut its
target to HK$11.50 from HK$19.50.  Esprit shares fell 3.4 percent to HK$11.92 at 10.13 a.m.
 Hong Kong  time. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  rose 0.6 percent.  Martinez took the place vacated by Ronald Van der Vis, who
announced his departure in June. Chairman Hans Joachim Koerber
quit a day after Van der Vis. The departure of both executives
had raised doubts over succession as Esprit struggles to
restructure its business.  Van der Vis, hired in 2009, last year laid out a turnaround
plan that included makeovers of existing stores and new ones in
 China .  Esprit’s transformation plan is “ambitious,” Martinez
said at a press conference in Hong Kong yesterday. “My priority
number one is not to disturb the company and to make sure this
transition is smooth.”  “I’m fully agreed with the fundamentals of the
transformation plan,” he said. “So whatever changes or
whatever directions we take, it’s going to be decided by the
team over time.”  Sales Declines  Shares of Esprit surged the most since 1998 on Aug. 7 after
the appointment of Martinez on optimism the executive who ran
distribution and operations for the owner of Zara stores will be
able to replicate some of Inditex’s success and help Esprit
recover from a three-year profit decline.  Esprit reported sales of HK$30.2 billion in the 12 months
to June 30, a decline of 11 percent, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange yesterday. It booked a HK$696
million write-back on a provision made for store closures in
 North America . Marketing expenses rose to HK$1.6 billion from
HK$984 million.  Net income in the second half was HK$318 million, compared
with a loss of HK$2.06 billion a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in Europe dropped 11 percent to HK$23.7 billion in
the year just ended, with  Germany , Esprit’s biggest market,
falling 9 percent. Europe accounted for  79 percent of sales  last
year.  Esprit’s capital expenditure is expected to reach HK$1.5
billion in the current financial year, compared with HK$1.4
billion in the year just ended. Earnings per share were 68 Hong
Kong cents, compared with 6 Hong Kong cents a year earlier.  The Hong Kong-traded apparel company was established in
1968 in  San Francisco , when Susie and  Doug Tompkins  started
selling clothes out of the back of their station wagon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  