-- Met Opens Season With Gala, Russian Diva Netrebko
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-09-26T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/met-opens-season-with-gala-russian-diva-netrebko.html
Here’s a guaranteed money maker:
Sell love potions at the door.  Sipping from small bottles might have made sitting through
the  Metropolitan Opera ’s new production of “L’Elisir d’Amore”
(The Elixir of Love) a more delightful experience.  In Donizetti’s comic opera, which opened the Met season on
Monday, Dr. Dulcamara, a jovial quack apothecary, pulls into a
sleepy Italian town dispensing repackaged Bordeaux for
everything that could possibly ail a human being.  He’s got an eager customer in Nemorino, a weepy peasant who
loves Adina, the rich and fickle landowner.  What about the rest of us?  My heart hurt, too. It sank ever lower at the sight of the
homely set and those posturing choristers.  Directed by Bartlett Sher with designs by Michael Yeargan
(sets) and Catherine Zuber (costumes), the production could have
been new 50 years ago.  I don’t really mind a period look. This simple farce with
wonderful music probably resists updating, but couldn’t the team
have worked a little harder to freshen it up and improve the
sight lines? The first act’s church was largely invisible from
my side seat in the orchestra; balcony views were obscured by
the fake proscenium.  Pretty Lighting  The show does improve in the second act with a grandly
scaled hay loft very prettily lit by the legendary Jennifer Tipton. Chorus ladies flutter about holding lanterns, looking
for the tipsy and newly rich Nemorino.  I suppose it will all look nice enough in close-ups when
the show is telecast live to movie theaters on Oct. 13.  Sher, a Tony-award winning director of musicals and
plays, once declared his ignorance of opera on a television
program, and he doesn’t seem to be a quick learner. He dutifully
follows the libretto without adding anything charming or
memorable. Judging by his program note, he thinks there are dark
undercurrents to this flat tale that we haven’t noticed
before and invents a Hamlet-like dimension for Nemorino.  Fortunately, he had a lustrous cast, led by Russian diva
 Anna Netrebko , who brought her usual sly charm to the farmette
and sang with polish while wearing a mysterious top hat. Oh
wait, I think I get it. She’s a bossy pants who needs to let her
hair down. And that she dutifully does toward the end, when
Nemorino pulls her into some bushels of wheat.  By then Matthew Polenzani had secured the biggest ovation
of the evening with his gorgeously phrased “Una furtiva
lagrima” -- and done nothing to suggest the character is
anything but an irritating dumb sack of potatoes.  Mariusz Kwiecen provided a lively if small-scale Belcore.
Ambrogio Maestri, wonderfully vested by Zuber, had the most
natural delivery as Dulcamara, singing with ease and never
overdoing the comedy.  Tepid applause for the production team and Maurizio Benini,
the competent if not very bouncy conductor; enthusiastic cheers
for the singers ended the evening.  The opening was transmitted live to the plaza outside where
the crowd had the further pleasure of watching an intermission
program featuring  Deborah Voigt  interviewing a number of
befuddled celebs and mute models, plus Placido Domingo, who
portrayed Nemorino some 40 years ago. He said he would soon sing
papa Germont now that he had run out of tenor roles.  Can I please have what he’s drinking?  “L’Elisir d’Amore” will be performed again on Sept. 27
and on other dates through Feb. 9, 2013 at the  Metropolitan
Opera , Broadway at 65th Street. Information: +1-212-362-6000;
 http://www.metoperafamily.org . Rating: ***  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer of this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net . 