-- Ethiopia Sugar Signs $500 Million Deal With China’s CDC Bank
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-09-26T13:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/ethiopia-sugar-signs-500-million-deal-with-china-s-cdc-bank.html
Ethiopia  Sugar Corp. said it’s
signed agreements with state-owned  China Development Bank  Corp.
for $500 million in loans to build two refineries, part of a
plan to boost output of the sweetener almost tenfold by 2025.  Ethiopia’s  Finance Ministry  and the state-run sugar company
have signed memorandums of understanding with the Chinese lender
for loans to build the plants in Ethiopia’s South Omo Zone,
Sugar Corp. spokesman Yilma Tibebu said in an e-mailed response
to questions on Sept. 24.  China Development Bank has advanced $123 million for a
factory in the northeastern Afar region, he said. The factories
will be built by the Ethiopian state-owned  Metals and
Engineering Corporation , an amalgam of former military
companies. China Complant Group Inc. is also working on the Afar
project, Yilma said.  Last year, Ethiopian Sugar started building 10 cane
plantations and factories with the goal of making the sugar-
importing Horn of  Africa  nation one of the world’s 10 biggest
exporters of the sweetener by 2025.  The building program will cost “close to 100 billion
Ethiopian birr ($5.5 billion),” with about half required in
foreign currency, said Asfaw Dingamu, Ethiopian Sugar’s deputy
director-general for the legal and communications department.  Seeking Loans  “We’re looking for loans,” he said a Sept. 22 interview
in the capital, Addis Ababa. “We’re negotiating with Chinese
banks.”  Ethiopian Sugar plans to provide about 40 percent of the
money through sugar sales, with the rest of funding to be
equally split between Ethiopian state banks and external
lenders, he said.  Sugar Corp.  generated 3 billion birr in profit from
existing factories and sales of imported sugar in the year to
July 7, Asfaw said. The government plans to increase production
to 2.3 million metric tons of cane by 2025, and the country
produced 265,000 tons last year, he said.  It spent 12 billion birr over the past two years on design
work, irrigation infrastructure, roads and worker housing, he
said. Ethiopian Sugar will need 100,000 workers to operate six
plantations being set up in South Omo, Asfaw said.  A delayed sugar project at Tendaho in the Afar region will
be producing at 30 percent capacity in January, Asfaw said. The
factory is being built by  India ’s Overseas Infrastructure
Alliance with a $394 million loan from the Export-Import Bank of
India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  