-- EU Antitrust Review of BAE-EADS Deal May Face Legal Limit
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-09-27T14:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/eu-antitrust-review-of-bae-eads-deal-may-face-legal-limit.html
European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD) ’s planned merger with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  may escape a
full review by European Union regulators because governments can
exempt defense-industry deals from antitrust scrutiny.  EU law has a military carve-out clause for the defense
industry that allows member countries to exempt companies from
having to seek approval for a takeover from European Commission
overseers, said Alec Burnside, a lawyer at Cadwalader Wickersham
& Taft LLP in Brussels.  “It’s traditionally an area of frustration for the
commission when it gets locked out of military mergers and it
has always tried to discourage  member states  from blocking” any
probe, Burnside said, though any government order would only
cover “purely military aspects” of the tie-up.  “Products with dual civilian-military use, and civilian
activities, will still have to be notified to the European
Commission,” he said.  EADS, the parent of Airbus, is negotiating with Germany,
 France ,  Spain , the U.K. and the U.S. on the merger, which would
create the largest civil-aviation and defense company, with a
combined market value of $45 billion. Management seeking
approval of the deal must persuade officials in France, which
owns a direct stake in EADS, and the U.K., which can veto any
change of ownership in BAE.  BAE-Marconi  The U.K. government cited national security issues to
exempt BAE’s 1999 purchase of General Electric Co.’s Marconi
defense unit from a commission merger review. The EU’s antitrust
agency approved non-defense aspects of the deal in 2000. The
French, Spanish and German governments didn’t exempt the
companies that formed EADS from a 2000 EU review.  Lindsay Walls, a spokeswoman for BAE, said the completion
of any transaction would be subject to a range of governmental
and regulatory consents. She declined to comment on any details
because discussions are continuing. EADS declined to comment on
regulatory approvals of the deal because negotiations are still
at an early stage.  The commission also declined to comment on the merger
review or a possible review of the government shareholdings.  The exemption can’t be used by governments to avoid any
potential antitrust concerns and must only be raised if they see
security issues, said Stephen Mavroghenis, a lawyer at Shearman
& Sterling LLP in Brussels.  ‘Strictly Construed’  “It will be strictly construed and it can be reviewed by
the  European Court  of Justice,” he said. “It would look odd if
one state were to say it was in their security interests and the
other ones didn’t, but they don’t all have to agree to it.”  EU regulators, usually responsible for approving Europe-
wide takeovers and enforcing the right to do business across the
bloc, have been careful about any involvement in the defense
industry because of the legal exemption, said Clara O’Donnell,
an analyst at the London-based Centre for European Reform.  The military opt-out may also affect EU rules that condemn
special rights for government shareholders, known as golden
shares, “simply because it’s an area where traditionally
governments have been allowed to do what they want,” she said.  “In military cases, it can be pretty hard to contest”
that such shares are needed to protect government interests,
Burnside said.  Government Reviews  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  are reviewing the proposed transaction
intensively, Merkel told reporters on Sept. 22. Hollande said
jobs, industrial strategy and the interests of both countries
were at stake. U.K. Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said the
government’s special share in BAE means the company will have to
prove the deal defends British interest and jobs, the Guardian
reported earlier this month.  Governments would be denied a role in operating decisions
in the merged company, and the special shares being offered to
states would be limited to 15 percent voting rights, Germany’s
economy ministry said in a document obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The commission has said such stakes may deter investment in
the 27-nation bloc. EU regulators revived legal action last year
against  Germany ’s so-called Volkswagen Law that allows the state
of  Lower Saxony  to veto any takeover of the carmaker.  A bigger regulatory obstacle to the deal may be the U.S.,
which is “sensitive about who is the owner” of defense-
equipment suppliers, said O’Donnell. Any requirement for BAE to
sell off U.S. businesses would be a challenge because those
units are a significant source of its earnings, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 