-- EU Lawmakers Seek High-Frequency Trade Curbs in Markets Law
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-26T16:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/eu-lawmakers-seek-high-frequency-trade-curbs-in-markets-law-2-.html
Lawmakers backed tougher European
Union curbs on high-frequency trading and limits on commodity
speculation as part of a push to toughen the bloc’s financial
market rulebook.  European Parliament legislators, voting in Brussels today,
also called for the European Securities and Markets Authority to
be equipped with powers to ban financial products that might
pose a threat to confidence or stability  The rules will “protect taxpayers and consumers,”  Markus Ferber , the lawmaker leading work on the dossier, said after the
vote by members of the assembly’s economic and monetary affairs
committee.  High-frequency trading in stocks came under increased
regulatory scrutiny after the so-called flash crash in May 2010,
during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points. Companies active in such trading have
warned that interfering with their strategies would raise
investor costs and harm financial stability.  The practice involves using powerful technology and complex
computer programs to execute orders in milliseconds and profit
from fleeting discrepancies in security prices across different
trading venues.  Lawmakers backed a range of curbs on high-frequency trading
in today’s vote, including a rule that orders must be kept in
the market for at least half a second before they are canceled,
and a requirement for traders to face higher fees if they
withdraw excessive numbers of orders.  ‘Highly Questionable’  The planned restriction on how fast traders can cancel
orders “is highly questionable as it will lead to less
liquidity and more fragmentation in markets,” Stefan Mai, head
of market policy and European public affairs at  Deutsche Boerse
AG (DB1) , said in an e-mail. This will result “in higher costs” for
investors “and the real economy.”  The parliament was voting on a draft overhaul of the EU’s
financial market rulebook, known as Mifid, proposed last year by
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief.  The final version of the rules must be agreed on by the
assembly and by national governments before they can take
effect. Today’s committee vote sets parliament’s negotiation
position.  On commodity derivatives, lawmakers backed a dual system
in which speculators would face position limits capping their
activities, while companies that are hedging business risks
would be subject to lighter rules.  Limited Support  Still, Parliament gave only limited support to an attempt
by Barnier to boost competition in clearing of derivatives.  While exchanges should, as a rule, be required to supply
their trade data to rival clearinghouses, lawmakers voted that
these requests would have to be assessed for any risk they may
pose to financial stability.  Today’s decision boosted  Deutsche Boerse ’s chances of
winning a reprieve from Barnier’s original proposals to force
exchanges to open up their derivatives clearing services to
competition.  Lawmakers voted to oppose so-called interoperability
arrangements between clearing firms, and vetoed plans from
Barnier to boost access to information used to compile market
benchmark rates.  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the economic and monetary
affairs committee, said it was “frankly bizarre” that
legislators had opted to scrap the access plans for benchmarks
and indexes.  Deutsche Boerse  EU antitrust officials vetoed merger plans by Deutsche
Boerse and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in February after concluding that the
combination could threaten competition for trading in some
derivatives. Barnier urged  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust
chief, to take the competition-boosting effect of the draft law
into account when deciding whether the merger should be
permitted.  U.K. Chancellor  George Osborne  won assurances last year
from Barnier that the draft Mifid rules would contain strong
competition-boosting provisions.  Kay Swinburne, a U.K. lawmaker on the committee said it was
disappointing that legislators had eliminated the access rules
for benchmarks and indexes.  “This runs counter to calls following the Libor scandal
for transparency in benchmarks,” she said in an interview after
the vote.  Clearinghouse Competition  Parliament’s approach to clearinghouse competition is
consistent with parallel EU rules for the over-the-counter
 derivatives market , Deutsche Boerse’s Mai said.  Lucie Holloway, a spokeswoman for  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc (LSE) , declined to comment.  The committee also voted to scale back plans from Barnier
to create a new type of platform, known as an Organized Trading
Facility. OTFs are intended to handle some transactions that
currently take place in so-called dark pools.
  The new platforms shouldn’t be allowed to handle equity
trades, the lawmakers said, because of concerns this could lead
more highly-regulated venues to lose business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  