-- EU Probes Possible Chinese Evasion of Duties on Bicycles
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-09-26T08:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/eu-probes-possible-chinese-evasion-of-duties-on-bicycles.html
The European Union threatened to
extend to  Indonesia ,  Malaysia ,  Sri Lanka  and  Tunisia  a duty on
bicycles from  China , saying Chinese exporters may have used the
four nations to evade the levy and undercut EU bike producers.  The European Commission opened an inquiry into whether
Chinese exporters shipped bicycles to the 27-nation EU via the
four countries to avoid paying a 48.5 percent anti-dumping duty.
The levy, in place for 19 years, is meant to punish Chinese
exporters for selling bikes in  Europe  below cost.  The request by the European Bicycle Manufacturers
Association for the EU to open the probe “contains sufficient
evidence that the anti-dumping measures on imports of bicycles
originating in China are being circumvented by means of
transshipment via Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Tunisia and
by means of assembly operations of certain bicycle parts from
China via Indonesia, Sri Lanka and Tunisia,” the Brussels-based
commission said yesterday in the  Official Journal .  Europe is stepping up scrutiny of alleged dumping and
suspected trade-distorting state aid to Chinese manufacturers,
raising the prospect of more European  import duties  to protect
higher-cost producers. Most of the EU’s punitive tariffs against
China penalize exporters for selling products below cost in the
bloc and the Asian nation faces more EU anti-dumping duties than
any other country.  Bike Subsidies  The EU on April 27 opened a probe into whether Chinese
bikemakers receive government aid, a step that may lead the bloc
to impose anti-subsidy duties against the country. The
commission has nine months from that date to decide whether to
impose provisional anti-subsidy tariffs and EU governments have
13 months to decide whether to apply “definitive” levies for
five years.  To date, the EU has hit China with anti-subsidy duties only
once when, in May 2011, it targeted imports of Chinese paper
with levies as high as 12 percent. The five-year tariffs aimed
to counter subsidies to China’s exporters of coated fine paper,
which is used for books, brochures and magazines.  The bicycle association asked the EU on Aug. 14 to
investigate on behalf of three European bike producers including
 Portugal ’s Montagem e Comercio de Bicicletas and Romania’s
Eurosport Dhs SA.  The EU said in March it would review the anti-dumping duty
on Chinese bikemakers after China last year removed an export-
quota system. The bloc said at the time it would consider
extending, removing or amending the levy following an
investigation that could last as long as 15 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  