-- Ex-Goldman Sachs Programmer Wants Bank to Pay Legal Fees
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-26T17:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/ex-goldman-sachs-programmer-wants-bank-to-pay-legal-fees.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
computer programmer  Sergey Aleynikov , charged twice with
stealing confidential trading code, sued the bank for payment of
more than $2.4 million in legal fees.  Goldman Sachs should pay fees and expenses incurred during
Aleynikov’s federal prosecution, which resulted in a conviction
that was later overturned, his lawyers argued in court papers
filed yesterday in federal court in Newark,  New Jersey .  Aleynikov was freed from federal prison earlier this year
after the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New York  reversed the 2010
conviction in federal court in  Manhattan . He was subsequently
charged by New York state prosecutors in Manhattan over the same
matter.  “Aleynikov exhausted his financial resources prior to his
trial on the federal charges,” his lawyers said in the
complaint. “Unless the court orders Goldman Sachs to honor its
legal obligation to advance his legal fees and expenses to
defend the state charges, Aleynikov’s ability to defend those
charges will be irreparably harmed.”  Aleynikov was arrested last month on state charges of
unlawful use of scientific material and duplication of computer-
related material, both felonies, according to Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. He is free on $35,000 bail.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the filing.  Conviction Overturned  Aleynikov is entitled to indemnification because of his
previous employment as an officer of Goldman Sachs, according to
the complaint. Aleynikov, a vice president in the bank’s Global
Equities Division until June 30, 2009, was part of a team
responsible for developing and improving source code related to
high-frequency trading, according to the complaint.  Federal prosecutors claimed that, on his last day of work
at Goldman Sachs, Aleynikov uploaded hundreds of thousands of
lines of source code from the firm’s trading system. He
allegedly sent the code to a server in  Germany , compressed and
encrypted it, and took it with him to a meeting with new
employers in  Chicago .  Aleynikov pleaded not guilty to the charges.  The New York appeals court in February ordered Aleynikov
freed from prison in Fort Dix, New Jersey, ruling that the two
laws prosecutors used to charge him, the National Stolen
Property Act and the Economic Espionage Act, didn’t apply to his
case. Aleynikov was serving an eight-year prison term at the
time the conviction was overturned.  Lacking Funds  The state charges involve the same conduct underlying the
federal allegations,  Kevin Marino , an attorney for Aleynikov,
said last month. The new charges each carry a maximum sentence
of four years in prison under the New York state penal code.  Aleynikov, who is unemployed, relies on the charity of
friends for shelter and doesn’t have the funds to fight the
state case or pay Marino’s law firm an initial retainer of
$500,000, Marino said in the complaint.  The case is Aleynikov v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., 12-
cv-05994, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  