-- Ex-N.Y. Hospital CEO Charged With Taking Vendor Kickbacks
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-09-26T21:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/ex-n-y-hospital-ceo-charged-with-taking-vendor-kickbacks.html
John R. Reynolds, former chief
executive officer of  New York ’s Hospital for Special Surgery,
was charged by federal prosecutors with taking $1.4 million in a
decade-long illegal-kickback scheme.  Reynolds, 63, was arrested at his home in  Massachusetts 
this morning, according to a statement from the office of U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara. An indictment unsealed today in
Manhattan federal court charges Reynolds with racketeering and
making false statements to the government. He faces as long as
25 years in prison if convicted.  Prosecutors claim that, from 1996 to 2007, Reynolds took
money from at least two hospital vendors, a hospital employee
and an unidentified health-care organization in the U.K. The
orthopedic hospital is known for treating sports stars including
New York Mets third baseman  David Wright  and New York Yankee
relief pitcher  Mariano Rivera . Reynolds left the hospital in
2008, according to the indictment.  “The government’s allegations are without basis in fact or
law,” Reynolds’s lawyer, Michael Grudberg, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Mr. Reynolds served HSS faithfully and
diligently for two decades and looks forward to making his case
in court.”  Reynolds appeared today in federal court in  Boston  and was
released on $100,000 bond, Grudberg said.  Sports Medicine  The Hospital for Special Surgery was founded in 1863 as the
Hospital for the Relief of the Ruptured and Crippled, according
to its  website . In addition to the Mets and Yankees, players for
teams including the  New York Giants ,  New York Knicks , New York
Red Bulls, USA Swimming and  St. John’s University  are treated by
doctors at the hospital, according to the site.  “Obviously, it was a shock to us,” said Deborah Sale, a
hospital spokeswoman, referring to the charges. Sale said the
hospital cooperated with Bharara’s investigation.  Reynolds served as the hospital’s chief financial officer
from 1986 to 1997, when he was promoted to chief executive
officer, according to the indictment. He was replaced as CEO and
continued as a contract worker from October 2006 until December
2008, according to prosecutors.  The government claims Reynolds took a total of $420,000 in
kickbacks from at least two hospital vendors, from 1996 to 2002,
in exchange for steering hospital business to them. From 2000 to
2005, he extorted an additional $298,500 from a subordinate at
the hospital after negotiating an annual bonus for the employee,
according to the charges. Reynolds also received $670,000 for
approving a clinical partnership between his hospital and the
U.K. health-care organization, prosecutors claim.  Inspector General  Reynolds is also charged with lying in 2008 to an agent of
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services inspector
general’s office.  “By allegedly exploiting his position at the helm of a
world renowned hospital for his own personal gain, John Reynolds
tarnished the hospital’s reputation and did a disservice to its
employees,” Bharara said in the statement.  The case is U.S. v. Reynolds, 12-cr-708, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 