-- Ex-News Corp. U.K. CEO Faces Sept. 2013 Hacking Trial
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-09-26T15:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/ex-news-corp-u-k-ceo-faces-sept-2013-hacking-trial.html
Rebekah Brooks, the former chief
executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British unit, and 13 other
people will face the first criminal trial stemming from the
company’s tabloid phone-hacking scandal in September 2013.  The group, including  Andy Coulson , who edited the News of
the World tabloid when the scandal started in 2006, appeared in
a London court today to hear the trial date and get their bail
extended. Judge Adrian Fulford, who is overseeing the case,
scheduled another hearing for Dec. 12 and barred the press from
reporting other elements of today’s proceedings.  Brooks and Coulson, the former press chief for U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron , were among those charged this year with
either conspiring to intercept the voice mail of celebrities,
lawmakers and crime victims, or conspiring to cover up the
practice as the police probe intensified last year.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , a friend of Brooks,
closed the News of the World in July 2011 to help quell public
anger after it emerged journalists accessed messages on a
murdered schoolgirl’s mobile phone nearly a decade earlier. The
investigation spawned parallel probes of computer hacking and
bribery and led to the arrests of more than 80 people, including
the unit’s former head of security and its top lawyer.  Brooks, Coulson, former news editor Ian Edmondson and five
other people were charged in July with conspiring from 2000 to
2006 to hack the phones of more than 600 people, including U.S.
actors  Brad Pitt  and  Angelina Jolie . If convicted, the charges
could result in two-year prison terms.  Obstructing Investigation  Brooks, her husband Charlie Brooks, and her former personal
assistant,  Cheryl Carter , were among six people charged in May
in a related case alleging they sought to obstruct the hacking
probe by hiding papers and computers from investigators last
year and removing seven boxes of material from the storage
archive of News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International. Though
Brooks, 44, had been scheduled to enter a plea at today’s
hearing, she didn’t do so.  The other alleged conspirators in the phone-hacking case
are the tabloid’s former managing editor Stuart Kuttner, former
chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck, former assistant editor Greg
Miskiw, former assistant news editor James Weatherup and former
private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , who worked for the title.  The group accused of obstructing the probe includes Mark
Hanna, the former head of security at the unit, and Brooks’s
chauffeur,  Paul Edwards . Former security-staff member Lee
Sandell was charged separately in that case earlier this month.  Separately, the first charge in the bribery investigation
was filed Sept. 24 against a London police detective, April
Casburn. She is accused of offering to sell information to the
News of the World in September 2010. Brooks and Coulson were
also arrested in the bribery investigation last year.  Brooks, who denies the claims, quit as CEO of the unit two
days before she was arrested in July 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  