-- Ex-Penn State Officials Lose Bid to End Perjury Charges
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-27T17:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/ex-penn-state-officials-lose-bid-to-end-perjury-charges.html
Two former officials of
 Pennsylvania State University  must face perjury charges arising
from the case against Jerry Sandusky, the ex-football coach
convicted of abusing boys, a judge ruled.  Gary Schultz , a former vice president in charge of
university police, and Timothy Curley, an athletics director at
the time, are to go on trial in January on charges they lied to
a grand jury about a 2001 sex-abuse allegation against Sandusky
and failed to report it. Lawyers for the men sought to dismiss
the perjury charge claiming it lacked specificity and couldn’t
be corroborated. Commonwealth Judge Todd Hoover in Harrisburg
disagreed in a ruling yesterday.  “The dismissal is not warranted based upon the alleged
unavailability of corroboration evidence,” Hoover said. “We
deem defendant’s challenge to the existence or availability of
corroboration evidence to be more appropriately asserted at the
time of trial.”  Caroline Roberto, an attorney for Curley, said the ruling
“is not unexpected” given Hoover’s questions during a hearing
last month.  “We continue to prepare our vigorous defense for trial,”
Roberto said today in an e-mailed statement.  31 Seasons  Sandusky, 68, who spent 31 seasons as a defensive assistant
coach under  Joe Paterno , was convicted in June on 45 criminal
counts tied to the abuse of boys over a 15-year period. He is
scheduled to be sentenced next month.  Curley and Schultz are accused of lying about what they
were told by a former assistant football coach regarding an
incident involving Sandusky and what appeared to be a 10-year-
old boy in a football locker room shower.  Mike McQueary , the
former assistant coach who was a graduate assistant at the time
of the incident, testified at a preliminary hearing for the men
in December that he told them he witnessed the incident and
described it as sexual.  Both men denied McQueary’s account. Prosecutors used
Paterno’s grand jury testimony at the December hearing to
bolster McQueary’s statements. Paterno, who died in January,
testified last year that he reported what McQueary had told him
about the incident to Curley. A transcript of Paterno’s seven-
minute testimony was read into the record at the December
hearing. A judge ruled at the time that there was enough
evidence for the case to proceed to trial.  Paterno’s Death  Schultz and Curley argued at a hearing last month that
Paterno’s death made proving the alleged false statements
impossible.  The unavailability of Paterno doesn’t negate the judge’s
finding that the evidence was legally sufficient to establish a
case against the men, Hoover said.  He also denied a request for more specifics on the charges,
ruling that prosecutors had responded with “sufficient
specificity” as to what they will seek to prove at trial.  The case is Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania  v. Schultz, CP-22-
CR-5164-2011, Court of Common Pleas of Dauphin County,
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 