-- Mexican Peso Declines as Protests in Europe Add to Debt Concern
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-09-26T22:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/mexican-peso-declines-as-protests-in-europe-add-to-debt-concern.html
Mexico ’s peso dropped as protests
against European austerity measures added to concern that
leaders won’t be able to stem the region’s debt crisis, damping
demand for emerging-market currencies.  The peso depreciated 0.1 percent to 12.8698 per  U.S. dollar 
at 4 p.m. in Mexico City. The peso reduced its rally this year
to 8.3 percent, still the best performance among the greenback’s
16 most-traded counterparts. It has gained 3.7 percent in the
third quarter.  Developing-nation currencies slumped worldwide and Spanish
bond yields surged as demonstrators in Madrid planned a second
night of protests against austerity measures, coinciding with a
general strike in Greece. European turmoil helped make the peso
the worst-performing major currency in  Latin America  last year.  “The market seems to be jittery,”  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin
America strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto, said in an
e-mailed message. “Uncertainty over the bailout request”
remains.  Germany, the Netherlands and Finland said late yesterday
Spain should bear the cost of problems in its banks, with the
European Stability Mechanism assuming only a limited burden in
recapitalizations. Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  told the
Wall Street Journal in comments confirmed by his office that he
would “100 percent” seek a rescue if borrowing costs stayed
“too high.”  Mexico reported a preliminary trade deficit of $979.2
million for August, above the $800 million deficit predicted by
the median of 11 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on Mexico’s local currency bonds due in 2024 dropped
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.37 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price increased
0.52 centavo to 141.38 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  