-- Factory Job Gains Under Obama Best Since Clinton: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-09-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/factory-job-gains-under-obama-best-since-clinton-bgov-barometer.html
In an election focused on jobs,
President  Barack Obama  can boast of crossing one milestone: the
longest stretch of employment gains in  manufacturing  in almost
two decades.  The BGOV Barometer shows U.S. factory positions have grown
since early 2010, arresting a slide that began toward the end of
the 1990s. It’s the best showing since the era of  Bill Clinton ,
the only president in the last 30 years to leave office with
more factory jobs than when he began.  “The gain in manufacturing jobs is certainly helpful, it
is one way to show we’re moving forward,” said  Terry Madonna , a
political science professor and director of the Franklin &
Marshall College poll in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania . “President
Obama has to create a psychology all over the country that
things are getting better. This is a piece explaining that
idea.”  Obama and Republican presidential challenger  Mitt Romney 
have visited factories to promise voters they can boost the
labor market, which would accelerate  consumer spending , the
biggest part of the economy. The U.S. has made up 4.1 million of
the 8.8 million overall jobs lost as a result of the 18-month
 recession  that ended in June 2009, with  unemployment  exceeding 8
percent for 43 consecutive months, a post-World War II record.  The revival of factory employment may matter most in
battleground states including Michigan,  Ohio  and Pennsylvania,
Madonna said. Obama is leading Romney in Ohio “by a larger
margin than many of us had thought possible, to a great extent
because of the auto industry bailout,” he said, so “saving
auto jobs is an agenda the president can push in such places.”  Low Baseline  In a larger context,  factory jobs  are rebounding off a low
base, and an employment level of 12 million in August is down
from 17.9 million in 1990. Even so, gains in all except three
months since February 2010 provide “reason to believe
manufacturing employment may have turned the corner,” said Muir Macpherson, a Bloomberg Government economist in Washington who
analyzed the government data on factory jobs.  “This is the first sustained increase we’ve seen in a long
time,” Macpherson said. A continuation of the trend may mean
factory employment by the end of a second term for Obama would
be higher than when he took office in 2009, putting him in the
company of Clinton, he said. The progress so far also contrasts
with the job losses seen during the recovery from the 2001
recession, when  George W. Bush  was president, he said.  Natural-Gas Revival  One area where the Obama administration can take credit for
the pickup is for “not getting in the way of the renaissance in
the natural-gas industry,” said Thomas Duesterberg, former
chief executive officer of Arlington, Virginia-based
Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI. “It could become a very important
contributor to growth in manufacturing and manufacturing-related
employment,” he said.  More jobs at factories are mainly an outcome of longer-term
trends including rising productivity and innovation, a weaker
dollar and free trade agreements, he said.  “There’s something of a revival in American manufacturing
employment,” said Duesterberg, executive director of Aspen
Institute’s Manufacturing and Society in the 21st Century
program. “We’re done with the reduction phase and into the
expansion phase. Given the many difficulties in the U.S. and
global economy, it’s reassuring that we’ve achieved the job
growth that is taking place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  