-- FDA Relaxes Blending Rules for Toxin in Illinois Livestock Feed
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-09-26T17:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/fda-relaxes-blending-rules-for-toxin-in-illinois-livestock-feed.html
The  U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  has approved a request from the state of  Illinois 
to allow in animal feed corn containing increased levels of a
toxin that can be fatal to livestock.  The FDA was responding to a request earlier this week from
the Illinois Department of Agriculture to allow the blending of
corn containing more than 20 parts per billion of aflatoxin and
less than 500 parts per billion with grain containing lower
levels, Jeff Squibb, a spokesman for the state agency said today
in a telephone interview. The FDA forbids the mixing of corn
containing aflatoxin with uncontaminated grain.  Under the FDA guidelines, corn grown in Illinois, where
toxin levels are higher this year because of drought, can be
safely fed to livestock, Squibb said. The blended corn must be
clearly identified and labeled for animal-feed use only and
cannot contain corn with levels greater than 300 parts per
billion. Illinois is the second-biggest producer, behind  Iowa ,
which received similar  approval  on Sept. 18.  Aflatoxins, chemicals produced by mold fungi, are
considered carcinogenic to animals and humans, according to  Iowa
State University . Conditions were prime for the fungus to
produce toxin during warm August nights in a period of drought,
according to a  document  on the university’s website.  Corn containing aflatoxin levels greater than 20 parts per
billion cannot be used for human consumption or used to feed
dairy animals or for immature livestock, the Iowa Department of
Agriculture said in a statement.  Indiana , the fifth-largest U.S. corn producer, has filed a
blending request with the FDA and was awaiting a response,
Jeannie Keating, a spokeswoman with the Indiana State Department
of Agriculture, said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  