-- Fed’s Evans Calls for More Easing, Warns of ‘Lost Decade’
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-09-26T19:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/fed-s-evans-calls-for-more-easing-warns-of-lost-decade-.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said policy makers must not be passive
in the face of high U.S. unemployment, firing back at critics of
the Fed’s decision this month to step up record stimulus.  “We cannot be complacent and assume that the economy is
not being damaged if no action is taken,” Evans said today in a
speech in Hammond, Indiana. “If we continue to take only
modest, cautious, safe policy actions, we risk suffering a lost
decade similar to that which Japan experienced in the 1990s.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  started a
third round of quantitative easing this month, saying it would
buy $40 billion in mortgage bonds a month until the labor market
improves. The decision drew criticism from some Fed officials,
including Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser , who said
the new accommodation will do little to spur job growth while
stoking inflation.  “It is essential to do as much as we can now to bolster
the resiliency and vibrancy of the economy,” Evans said to the
Lakeshore Chamber of Commerce, repeating his call for additional
easing. He doesn’t vote on policy this year.  Evans has been among the most vocal proponents within the
central bank for additional monetary stimulus. Reiterating a
proposal, he urged policy makers to hold  interest rates  near
zero until the  unemployment rate  falls to 7 percent or inflation
rises to 3 percent.  The Fed can further expand its balance sheet if progress
toward reducing unemployment falters, Evans said. The FOMC
currently anticipates keeping  interest rates  low through at
least mid-2015.  Economic Risks  Speaking to reporters after the speech, Evans said the
economy would need 200,000 to 250,000 job gains per month for
“several, several months” before the Fed can revisit its
accommodative policy. Inflation risks are “well-managed” and
it will take until the end of 2014 for the  unemployment rate  to
decline to 7 percent, he said.  Slowing growth abroad, Europe’s debt crisis and the so-
called fiscal cliff -- in which $600 billion of tax increases
and spending cuts take effect at the beginning of next year
unless Congress acts -- have increased risks to the economic
outlook, Evans said.  “Piling these risk events on a weak economy could throw us
back into recession,” he said. “Underestimating the enormity
of our problems and the negative forces holding back growth
itself exposed the economy to other potentially more serious
unintended consequences.”  Spain Protests  Stocks fell today as protests in Spain fueled concern that
Europe’s debt crisis will worsen. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped 0.4 percent to 1,435.43 as of 3:03 p.m. in New
York.  Banks aren’t lending enough to generate asset price
bubbles, Evans said in response to a question from the audience.  Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  endorsed a
variation of Evans’ proposal last week, arguing that a more
explicit commitment to keep policy accommodative would help
provide the economy with needed support.  Kocherlakota advocates keeping rates low until unemployment
falls below 5.5 percent, unless inflation hits 2.25 percent.
That’s a change from May, when he said that the Fed may need to
exit from its record monetary accommodation as early as this
year. He doesn’t vote on policy this year.  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  dissented from the
FOMC’s Sept. 13 decision, saying in a National Public Radio
interview that the move risks pushing up prices while doing
little to spur job growth.  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas  and Philadelphia’s Plosser also
said they opposed additional accommodation. The two district
bank presidents, neither of whom votes on policy this year,
cited the risk the move stokes inflation expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  