-- Fisker Raises $100 Million to Buoy Luxury Plug-in Car Business
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-09-26T20:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/fisker-raises-100-million-to-buoy-luxury-plug-in-car-business.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., the maker
of luxury plug-in hybrid cars, said it raised more than $100
million from private investors as the startup tries to overcome
issues with its Karma sedan and readies a second model.  The current equity financing round increases the total
raised to more than $1.2 billion, the Anaheim, California-based
carmaker said in an e-mailed statement today. Production plans
and details of the Atlantic, Fisker’s second rechargeable model,
will be provided by December, the company said.  The additional funding “is another major vote of
confidence in Fisker’s pioneering technology and business
model,” Chief Executive Officer  Tony Posawatz  said in the
statement.  Fisker announced the funding a day after its $103,000
Karma, which goes about 40 miles (64 kilometers) on battery
power before a gasoline engine propels it, was criticized by
 Consumer Reports . The magazine didn’t recommend the car, citing
its interior design and reliability. The carmaker, co-founded by
designer  Henrik Fisker , has recalled Karmas for flawed lithium-
ion batteries from  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  and cooling fans.  The carmaker, which was approved for $529 million in U.S.
Energy Department loans in 2009 to develop and build its
vehicles, also has to work out an agreement with federal
officials after being cut off from one of its loans last year.
Fisker’s plan to use those funds to make its second model at a
closed General Motors Corp. plant in Wilmington, Delaware, has
been stalled since February.  Fisker’s statement today didn’t list the investors.  Venture
capital (KLDO)  firms such as Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Palo
Alto Investors LLC have backed the company, and in July it said
actor  Leonardo DiCaprio , a Karma owner, had invested in the
company and would help promote the vehicle.  About 1,500 Karmas have been delivered to customers in the
U.S. and Europe since December, the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  