-- Fix a Bond, Build a Bridge, Help Taxpayers and Investors
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-26T22:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/fix-a-bond-build-a-bridge-help-taxpayers-and-investors.html
In 2009, with the U.S. roiled by
recession and investors fleeing the municipal-bond market,
President  Barack Obama  started a program that allowed cities and
states to sell taxable bonds on which the federal government
would offer an interest subsidy of 35 percent.  These Build America Bonds, created as part of the stimulus
package, were a response to an emergency, but they proved
successful in providing much-needed funding for infrastructure,
and were a boon for investors, too. In 2010, they fell prey to
partisanship, cynicism and an understandable concern about their
cost to taxpayers.  Now, with bridges, roads, tunnels and ports in need of
shoring up, and with many state and local budgets still in dire
shape, the bonds should be brought back to life, but with a few
updates to fix the original program’s flaws. And the Obama
administration must make clear that it won’t use the bonds as a
political tool.  There is no question that U.S. public works are crumbling.
The American Society of Civil Engineers  estimated  last year that
without more investment our deteriorating transportation network
alone could cost the country more than 876,000 jobs and reduce
gross-domestic-product growth by $897 billion by the end of the
decade. Failure to invest in congested and aging waterways and
airports  could cost the U.S.  more than $1 trillion in GDP growth
and threaten more than 1 million jobs.  Cheap, Efficient, Progressive  Build America Bonds offered states and municipalities the
ability to address such problems at a reduced cost. Over the
life of the original program -- in 2009 and 2010 -- issuers sold
2,275 Build America Bonds to support more than $180 billion in
infrastructure. They saved an average of 0.84 percentage point
on interest costs for 30-year loans. That added up to about $20
billion in present value compared with tax-exempt munis, a
figure that the Treasury noted was “considerably greater than
the net cost to the federal government of the BABs program.”  Raising money in this way was also more efficient and
progressive than via the traditional muni market. Remember: To
entice investors in lower  income-tax brackets , issuers of
traditional tax-exempt bonds must offer higher yields, which
investors in the top income-tax bracket are free to take
advantage of. As a result,  according to  the  Congressional Budget
Office  and the Joint Committee on Taxation, only about 80
percent of the cost to the government translates into savings
for states and municipalities. In other words, 20 cents of every
taxpayer dollar is simply “a federal transfer to bondholders in
higher tax brackets.” The Center for American Progress  estimates 
the cost to U.S. taxpayers of this inefficiency may be more than
$6 billion a year.  With Build America Bonds, by contrast, the government made
direct payments to issuers, ensuring that state and
municipalities benefited from the full subsidy. BABs also
attracted pension funds, foreign investors and others who don’t
pay U.S. income taxes and for whom tax-exempt munis typically
have little appeal. This gives issuers access to a broader and
more liquid market and enables them to sell longer-maturity
bonds than retail investors would usually seek.  And with relatively high yields and lower credit risk, BABs
have proven popular with investors. As  Bloomberg News  recently
reported, they are on pace to outperform Treasuries and tax-
exempt munis for a third straight year.  Confusion and Cynicism  Despite its success, the program was allowed to expire at
the end of 2010. Some in Congress argued that BABs were subject
to excessive underwriting fees, a problem that diminished as the
bonds became more commonplace. Some also argued that the bonds
merely replaced a  tax cut  (the muni exemption) with increased
spending (the subsidy), but this criticism misunderstood how tax
expenditures work. Worse, the Obama administration recently
threatened that the federal subsidy on BABs that have already
been issued may be reduced as part of automatic spending cuts
that kick in next year -- a hugely cynical move that could
tarnish the reputation of a successful program.  This isn’t to say the original BABs plan was perfect. With
a 35 percent federal subsidy, it was expensive. It also rewarded
profligate states and made it easier for them to stave off tough
budget decisions. Fortunately, these flaws can be repaired with
a few adjustments.  First, the subsidy in the original program would be too
high if made permanent. The Obama administration has proposed
reinstating it at a 28 percent rate, which it estimates would be
 revenue-neutral  because of the income gained from investors
forgoing tax-exempt bonds. That may be optimistic, but one major
advantage of BABs is that Congress can always adjust this rate
in response to budgetary or economic needs, rather than being at
the mercy of the muni market and marginal tax rates.  Second, whatever rate Congress sets, imprudent states would
still be rewarded: The higher the  interest rate  an issuer must
offer to entice investors, the greater their subsidy. One way to
fix this skewed incentive is for the federal government to offer
the subsidy as a  percentage of principle  rather than interest,
and to place a cap on acceptable yields at the time of issuance.
Congress could also vary the subsidy rate depending on how
desirable a given project is, and further restrict the types of
construction jobs that would be eligible, for instance by
prohibiting the use of subsidized bonds to finance for-profit
projects.  Another idea,  proposed  by the liberal Center for American
Progress, would pair a new Build America Bonds program with a
volume cap on new tax-exempt issuance, with state and local
governments vying in an auction process for the right to sell
tax-exempts. This, they argue, would reduce yields, eliminate
the windfall for those in high tax brackets, and lower costs for
borrowers as they increasingly issued BABs.  Imagine for a moment that Congress and the Obama
administration can stop using this program for political
purposes. If Build America Bonds can finance public works more
efficiently, while offering more investors a chance to enter the
market, reducing the taxpayer subsidy of the highest earners,
and tightening standards for state and local issuers, what does
 Uncle Sam  stand to lose?  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on judging  Georgia’s
Saakashvili ;  Caroline Baum  on  Romney’s best chance to win ;
 Michael Kinsley  on  Romney’s incompetence ;  Ezra Klein  on
 undecided voters ;  Amity Shlaes  on why pensions are fueling  U.S.
class warfare ;  Jeff Rubin  on whether  high oil prices  will save
the planet;  Stephen Smith  on how Republicans derail  Amtrak
privatization .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 