-- Florida Cuts Count of Suspected Noncitizens on Voter Roll
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-09-26T23:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/florida-cuts-count-of-suspected-noncitizens-on-voting-rolls-1-.html
Florida  election officials have
identified 198 residents who may be illegally registered to
vote, down from an original list of 2,625, said Chris Cate, a
spokesman for Secretary of State Ken Detzner.  The state whittled its roster of potential noncitizens on
the voter rolls after getting access to federal immigration
data. The initial process, started at the direction of
Republican Governor  Rick Scott , had been halted after county
election supervisors complained state data was out of date.  At least 39 of the 198 possible noncitizens have voted in
previous elections, Cate said today. Illegally registering or
voting is a third-degree felony, punishable by as much as five
years in prison and a $5,000 fine, according to state law.  State authorities gave the new, reduced list to election
supervisors and asked the county officials to remove anyone who
failed to prove citizenship from the voter rolls, according to a
letter from Maria Matthews, an election attorney.  “The department’s highest priority will be to ensure that
Florida’s voter rolls are accurate and that all citizens’ right
to vote is protected,” she wrote.  Swing State  The hunt for noncitizens among Florida’s 11.5 million
voters unfolds as the state is a critical prize in the race
between Democratic President  Barack Obama  and Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney . The past three presidential contests in
Florida were decided by 5 percentage points or less, including
in 2000 when Republican  George W. Bush  won by 537 votes.  The state announced on Sept. 12 that it would alert voters
who were improperly removed, or wrongly told they would be
removed, that they can vote.  The process has drawn three lawsuits from voters and
advocacy groups that claim the state is violating the federal
Voting Rights Act. One, brought by Mi Familia Vota Education
Fund in U.S. district court in Tampa, asserts that the state
must first seek approval from the government in  Washington .
Suits pending in Miami and Tallahassee contend that the state
can’t remove voters from the rolls within 90 days of a national
election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  