-- Forint Extends Losses on Hungary Rate Cut, Global Growth Concern
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-09-26T14:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/forint-extends-losses-on-hungary-rate-cut-global-growth-concern.html
The forint fell for a third day as
 Hungary ’s central bank cut its benchmark interest rate and on
concern global stimulus measures won’t revive economic growth.  Hungary’s currency depreciated 0.4 percent to 285.59 per
euro by 4:01 p.m. in Budapest. Yields on the government’s
benchmark 10-year bonds rose 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage
point, to 7.355 percent, the highest in almost two weeks on a
closing basis, according to generic data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank yesterday reduced the two-week
deposit rate by 25 basis points to 6.5 percent, still the
highest in the 27-member European Union, to help Hungary emerge
from recession. Emerging-market assets declined amid concern
global stimulus measures won’t be enough to revive growth.  “The forint weakened versus the euro following the
 interest-rate  decision and also burdened by relatively weak
global risk appetite,” Sandor Jobbagy, a Budapest-based analyst
at Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB Bank unit, wrote in a research
report today.  The central bank sees inflation at an average 5 percent in
2013, compared with a projection of 3.5 percent issued in June,
according to its Inflation Report published today. Gross
domestic product will expand 0.7 percent next year versus a
projection for a 0.8 percent expansion published in June, the
bank said. The government sees 1.6 percent growth.  The central bank’s inflation target is 3 percent.  Hungary’s monetary easing disregarding faster inflation is
“not good news for the forint” amid a European crisis, Carolin Hecht, a Frankfurt-based strategist at Commerzbank AG, wrote in
an e-mailed note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  