-- Ex-Japan Premier Abe Named Head of LDP Before Election Fight
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-09-26T09:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/former-japan-premier-abe-elected-as-head-of-opposition-ldp-1-.html
Japan ’s main opposition party chose
Shinzo Abe as its leader to contest the next election, five
years after he suddenly resigned as prime minister blaming
illness and a policy deadlock.  Abe, 58, defeated former Defense Minister Shigeru Ishiba in
a runoff today in  Tokyo  to become head of the  Liberal Democratic
Party  ahead of elections Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda must call
by August. Polls indicate the LDP may win, putting Abe in line
to become premier for a second time.  An advocate of revising Japan’s pacifist constitution to
loosen military restrictions, Abe has called for building on
islands at the heart of a territorial dispute with  China  that is
threatening trade between  Asia ’s two biggest economies. He also
favors having the  Bank of Japan (8301)  adopt an inflation target of 3
percent to combat more than a decade of falling prices.  “He’s taken a hard line on China, but foreign policy
doesn’t win elections,” said  Jeff Kingston , head of Asian
studies at the Tokyo campus of  Temple University . “Abe stumbled
so badly the last time as prime minister. What is the LDP going
to do to revive the economy?”  The opposition faces pressure to help pass legislation
funding this year’s budget or imperil an economic recovery
threatened by falling exports. The LDP agreed to support a bill
raising the  sales tax  to cope with the world’s largest debt in
exchange for Noda’s pledge to call elections “soon.”  Noda, who was re-elected head of the ruling Democratic
Party of Japan last week, has yet to say when that might be.  ‘More Instability’  “Abe is pro-growth, meaning he is in favor of inflation
targeting and more money printing,” said  Hiromichi Shirakawa ,
chief economist in Tokyo at Credit Suisse Group AG and a former
Bank of Japan official. “There will be more instability
politically because Abe will just criticize DPJ policies.”  Japan and China are mired in their biggest diplomatic
crisis since 2005 over islands in the  East China Sea  called
Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese. Noda’s government
bought them from a private owner this month, sparking outrage
from China. While he has no construction plans, Abe and other
senior LDP officials have called for building facilities on them
to aid Japanese fisherman.  “We want to show our intention to firmly protect the
islands and our territorial waters,” Abe said at a post-
election press conference. “The interests of countries that
border one another sometimes clash. Even so, we need one another
and I plan to control the situation with that strategic
awareness.”  ‘No Dispute’  He reiterated Japan’s position that “there is no dispute”
over the sovereignty of the Japanese-controlled islands.  The Chinese and Japanese foreign ministers met yesterday
for the second time this month in an attempt to ease rising
tensions that have disrupted a $340 billion trade relationship.  Abe resigned as premier on Sept. 12, 2007 after a year in
office citing health problems, setting off a revolving door of
Japanese prime ministers. His popularity plummeted after the
government revealed that millions of dollars in pension-fund
money had gone unaccounted for, and his cabinet ministers were
involved in a succession of scandals.  “Of course my victory in this race doesn’t clear away my
responsibility for what happened five years ago,” Abe told
party members. “With my responsibility for that experience
engraved in my heart, I will do all in my power to win the next
election.”  A Yomiuri newspaper poll published Sept. 18 showed 31
percent of respondents planned to vote for the LDP in the
proportional representation section of the next election,
compared with 14 percent for Noda’s  Democratic Party  of Japan
and 16 percent for a new party formed by Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  