-- FSA’s Wheatley Said to Recommend Regulation of Libor-Setters
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-09-26T15:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/fsa-s-wheatley-said-to-recommend-regulation-of-libor-setters.html
Martin Wheatley, who is leading a
review for the U.K. Treasury into how Libor is governed, may
recommend that bankers who make submissions to the benchmark
should be regulated, said a person with knowledge of the plans.  Employees who submit the estimates that are the basis of
the rate would become subject to approval by Britain’s Financial
Services Authority, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. Wheatley, a managing
director at the FSA, is set to unveil is proposals on Sept. 28.  He began the review at the request of Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  after  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-
biggest lender, paid a record 290 million-pound ($470 million)
fine in June for manipulating the  London  interbank offered rate.
The British Bankers’ Association, the London-based lobby group
that oversees the rate, yesterday signaled it will give up
responsibility for the benchmark following claims traders
manipulated the benchmark. Libor is used to set rates for at
least $300 trillion of securities.  “There is going to be much more regulatory oversight of
Libor in the future,” said  Simon Maughan , a banking analyst at
Olivetree Securities Ltd. in London. “There will be a new trade
body to oversee the rate. You will also see a marked reduction
in the number of rates set from the 12 different time periods
currently required, as some of them are so illiquid.”  ‘Daily Poll’  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily on behalf
of the BBA that asks firms to estimate how much it would cost to
borrow from each other for different periods and in different
currencies. The top and bottom quartiles of quotes are excluded,
and those left are averaged and published for individual
currencies before noon in London.  The BBA’s role as guardian of Libor has been under pressure
since the  Bank for International Settlements  first raised
concern in 2008 that the benchmark was being manipulated. At
least a dozen banks are being probed by regulators worldwide
over allegations they colluded to manipulate the benchmark to
profit from bets on derivatives.  “The existing mechanisms for Libor have fallen into
disrepute and are no longer viable,” said Kevin Burrowes, U.K.
financial services leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in
London. “The new Libor mechanism will need to be robust, afford
greater levels of consumer protection than was the case
previously, and subject to greater oversight and scrutiny.”  Internal Review  The BBA started an internal review of the benchmark last
year as banks started to disclosing that they were being probed
by regulators over rate-rigging. As recently as June, that panel
was set to resist calls to overhaul the rate by basing it on
actual transactions and instead favored a beefed-up code of
conduct and increased oversight, three people briefed on the
talks said at the time.  In its submission to the Wheatley-led review, the BBA
recommended that Libor be based on actual trades rather than
guesswork and that it should publish rates for fewer currencies,
 Sky News  reported today. The lobby group also recommended that
traders found guilty of manipulating the rate should be fined,
publicly censured and deleted from the FSA register of approved
persons, Sky said. The BBA declined to comment on the report.  Wheatley said last month that material changes to the way
Libor is calculated and published risks invalidating millions of
financial contracts, covering products ranging from mortgages to
derivatives.  “Any migration to new benchmarks would require a carefully
planned and managed transition in order to limit disruption to
the huge volume of outstanding contracts that reference Libor,”
Wheatley said in August following a speech at Bloomberg LP’s
office in London.  Dan Doctoroff , chief executive officer of Bloomberg LP, has
proposed an alternative to Libor dubbed the Bloomberg Interbank
Offered Rate, or Blibor. It would use data from a variety of
financial transactions to better reflect participating banks’
real cost of credit. Bloomberg LP is the parent of  Bloomberg
News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  