-- Funding Gap Leads U.K. Property Companies to Retail Bonds
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-09-27T09:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/funding-gap-leads-u-k-property-companies-to-retail-bonds.html
CLS Holdings Plc (CLI) , a U.K. investment
company with $1.5 billion of real estate, wrapped up a bond sale
four days early last month because of strong demand on  London ’s
two-year-old market for individual investors.  The owner of properties in the U.K.,  Sweden ,  France  and
 Germany  increased the size of the sale by 30 percent to 65
million pounds ($105 million) after selling the 5.5 percent
unsecured bonds to “mom and pop” investors.  Real estate companies, faced with banks that are reluctant
to lend, have had to seek alternative sources of capital to make
acquisitions and finance developments. CLS is the fourth
property company this year to tap the London Stock Exchange’s
Order Book for Retail Bonds, or ORB, joining banks, insurers and
utilities using the market to raise funds.  “There’s no other way of getting unsecured lending” than
so-called retail bonds, CLS Chief Executive Officer Richard Tice
said in an interview.  Workspace Group Plc (WKP) , landlord to 4,000 small businesses in
London and southeast  England , is offering as much as 75 million
pounds of debt securities on ORB.  Primary Health Properties Plc (PHP) 
sold 75 million pounds of unsecured seven-year bonds in July
with a 5.375 percent coupon.  Places for People, a provider of social housing, raised 40
million pounds in January with a 10-year inflation-indexed bond.
Nine months earlier, it raised 140 million pounds in another
debt sale.  Following Suit  “We expect more property companies to issue bonds --
including retail bonds -- as a way of diversifying their funding
sources and reducing their reliance on the banking market,”
said Patrick Long, managing director of real estate at Lazard
Ltd. in London.  The LSE  established ORB  in 2010 to open the corporate bond
market to retail investors by lowering the minimum investment.
Energy network operator  National Grid Plc (NG/)  and a  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ’s
personal-finance unit are among companies that raised a total of
more than 2.2 billion pounds on ORB since its inception,
including about 800 million pounds raised this year.  Retail bonds allow companies to borrow for longer than five
years, the usual term of a  bank loan , said Harry Hyman, managing
director of Primary Health, or PHP. The money raised can also be
deployed more quickly because the debt is unsecured, he said.  Funding Acquisitions  The real estate investment trust, which owns 160 doctors’
offices and medical clinics across the U.K., was the first
publicly traded property company to raise money on ORB. Since
the bond sale, PHP  acquired  a new medical center in Newton
Abbott for 3 million pounds and funded the construction of
another facility in Stourbridge for 8.5 million pounds.  “We have lots more deals on the horizon,” Hyman said.
“In the medium term, we will be doing more than one retail  bond
issue .”  Borrowers may struggle to refinance as much as 100 billion
pounds of existing real estate loans under current bank-lending
terms, according to a December survey of lenders compiled by De
Montfort University. As banks repair balance sheets damaged by
losses from the financial crisis and seek to meet tougher
capital rules, property companies are increasingly looking to
securities markets for funding.  So far this month, British Land Co., Capital & Counties
Properties Plc, Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc and  Hammerson
Plc (HMSO)  have sold bonds, convertible bonds and shares to raise 1.25
billion pounds.  High Yields  For small investors, the appeal of retail bonds is their
yield, which exceeds record-low returns from U.K. government
bonds or  savings accounts . Their willingness to invest in debt
securities gives small property companies a new source of
unsecured credit that’s unavailable from banks, the wholesale
corporate bond and U.S. private placement  bond market , companies
such as Workspace say.  “In the last 12 months the penny has dropped that low
 interest rates  are here to stay for a very long time, so
everyone is chasing income,” CLS’s Tice said. “There’s now a
way for savers to get a really secure form of income through an
open bond market.”  Workspace is offering seven-year bonds with a 6 percent
coupon, or 4.93 percentage points more than the equivalent U.K.
government bond. It’s also 2.27 percentage points more than the
average income from five-year savings bonds offered by banks, a
higher-yielding product popular with individual investors,
according to personal finance website moneyfacts.co.uk.  ‘Sensible Price’  “We see this as a long-term source of funding,” Workspace
Group Finance Director Graham Clemett said in an interview.
“We’re comfortable that we can get money at a sensible price.”  Retail bonds still cost companies more than bonds sold on
the wholesale market, which require a  credit rating . For
example, Hammerson Plc, Britain’s third-largest publicly traded
property company, raised 500 million euros ($645 million) last
week selling seven-year bonds with a 2.75 percent coupon.  Some wealth managers don’t share the small-cap companies’
enthusiasm for ORB, saying the higher yields that retail bonds
offer to small investors carry greater risk.  There are “plenty of pitfalls,” said  David Smith , co-
manager of the 470 million-pound Strategic Bond Fund run by
Bristol, England-based wealth manager Hargreaves Lansdown Asset
Management Ltd. Savers need to diversify investments, may face
difficulty in trading the bonds and need specialized knowledge
to fully understand where they rank among creditors in the event
of a default.  Risk Concern  “We are concerned that private investors aren’t fully
aware of the risks” of buying retail bonds, Smith said.  The minimum investment for retail bonds is typically 2,000
pounds with bonds denominated in increments of 100 pounds. That
compares with the wholesale market, where the minimum investment
is 50,000 pounds, limiting it mostly to professional money
managers.  “The retail market is available in smaller tranches which
can be more efficient for certain real estate issuers,”
Lazard’s Long said. Companies need to sell a minimum of 200
million pounds of bonds to tap the wholesale corporate bond
market, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 