-- GE Unveils Turbine to Complement Renewable Energy Sources
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-09-26T22:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/ge-unveils-turbine-to-complement-renewable-energy-sources.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  introduced a
new line of gas-powered electrical turbines designed to run
alongside renewable energy sources in markets from the U.S. to
Saudi Arabia to Japan.  The turbines are designed to efficiently ramp up to provide
electricity when the sun isn’t shining or the wind isn’t blowing
and to burn less fuel when operating at less than peak capacity,
GE said in a statement today.  Chubu Electric Power Co. (9502) ,  Saudi
Electricity Co. (SECO)  and  Xcel Energy Inc. (XEL)  are among customers placing
almost $1.2 billion of orders for 19 of the new turbines, the
company said.  GE is benefiting from Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt ’s efforts to boost industrial earnings while shrinking
its finance arm after $32 billion of credit losses in the
financial crisis. The company, based in Fairfield, Connecticut,
said earlier this week it created a new mining division as it
bets on rising demand for commodities from copper to coal.  The new turbine line is for countries where power is
transmitted at a frequency of 60 hertz. That includes the U.S.,
Canada, Brazil, Japan and Saudi Arabia. GE last year began
selling versions of the equipment for use in places with 50
hertz electricity, such as Europe, China, Australia and Africa.  “If you have renewables now or your grid is adding more in
the future, this is the best power plant to augment the
intermittency of renewable energy sources,” Paul Browning, head
of GE’s thermal energy business, said in an interview today at
an event in  San Francisco , where the turbines were unveiled.  Gas Prices  GE, the world’s biggest maker of electrical generation
equipment, said as part of the new line it will begin offering
two turbines, one capable of generating 250 megawatts and one
that can produce more than 300 megawatts of electricity.  Research and development costs for the two turbines totaled
$500 million, plus an additional $170 million for a testing
center at GE’s manufacturing facility in Greenville, South
Carolina, the company said.  Forecasts for low natural  gas prices  and demand in places
from Europe to California to Japan to diversify energy sources
are driving companies like GE to provide turbines for wider
purposes, Daniel Kammen, a professor of energy at the  University
of California , Berkeley, said at the event.  “The question isn’t when gas prices will rise, it’s how we
crowd in the greenest sources and not crowd them out with the
current phase of low gas prices,” Kammen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in San Francisco at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  