-- Spanish Bonds Slide on Call for Bank Bailout Limits; Bunds Gain
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-09-26T15:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/german-government-bonds-advance-before-inflation-data-auction.html
Spain ’s government bonds fell, with
10-year yields rising the most in almost eight weeks, after top-
rated European countries said national authorities should bear
the cost of earlier losses in their banking industry.  Italian and Irish securities also declined as  Germany , the
Netherlands and  Finland  said late yesterday the region’s bailout
fund, the European Stability Mechanism, should assume only a
limited burden in bank recapitalizations. Spanish bonds dropped
for a second day after Catalan President Artur Mas called for
early elections in a bid to seek greater regional autonomy.
German bunds advanced even as the nation attracted fewer bids
than its target at a 10-year debt sale.  “There’s an ongoing drip feed of negative news,” said
 Richard McGuire , a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in  London . The ESM announcement “appears to cast
some doubt as to whether Spain will be able to disburden itself
of the liabilities it will assume via its banking bailout.”  Spain’s benchmark 10-year yield climbed 32 basis points, or
0.32 percentage point, to 6.06 percent at 4:06 p.m. London time,
the biggest increase since Aug. 2. The 5.85 percent bond due
January 2022 fell 2.225, or 22.25 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,284)
face amount, to 98.47.  Bank recapitalization “should take place based on an
approach that adheres to the basic order of first using private
capital, then national public capital and only as a last resort
the ESM,” Finance Ministers Wolfgang Schaeuble, Jan Kees de Jager and Jutta Urpilainen said in a statement distributed by
the Finnish  Finance Ministry . That may rule out the bailout fund
from being used to deal with the 100 billion euros in aid Spain
sought for its banks in June.  ‘General Principles’  The statement only referred to “general principles,” a
spokesman at the Dutch Finance Ministry said by telephone today.  German bunds rallied, with the 10-year yield falling 13
basis points to 1.46 percent after dropping as much as 14 basis
points, the biggest decline since Aug. 2.  Germany received bids of 3.95 billion euros for the 10-year
bunds it sold today, falling short of the 5 billion-euro goal.
It’s the second consecutive 10-year auction that has attracted
less demand than its target.  Bids were “very sluggish,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-
income analyst at Newedge Group in London, wrote in a note to
clients. “Dealers might see limited upside for German debt in
the coming week,” she said.  The bonds were sold at an average yield of 1.52 percent,
compared with 1.42 percent at the previous auction on Sept. 5.  ‘Weakening’ Interest  The sale highlights “weakening investor interest” in
bonds with a maturity longer than five years, German Finance
Agency spokesman Joerg Mueller said in an interview.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  told the Wall Street
Journal in comments confirmed by his office that he would “100
percent” ask for a sovereign bailout if his nation’s borrowing
costs stayed “too high for too long.”  Rajoy’s comments were “like a red rag to a bull in terms
of the market needing to strong-arm Spain into accepting aid,”
Rabobank’s McGuire said.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-
year bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds widened 45
basis points to 461 basis points, the most since Sept. 6.  Spain’s  two-year yield  jumped 27 basis points to 3.44
percent, the most since Sept. 4.  Spanish 10-year yields are still below the euro-era record
7.75 percent reached on July 25, 2012. They have averaged 5.87
percent over the past year.  Greater Autonomy  Mas’s bid for greater autonomy for Catalonia came a week
after Rajoy rejected his demand for increased control of the
region’s revenue. Mas yesterday set the vote for Nov. 25, saying
the time has come to seek “self-determination.”  Thousands of protesters gathered around the Parliament in
 Madrid  late yesterday to oppose budget cuts and tax increases
Rajoy has pursued since coming to power in December in breach of
his campaign pledges.  “The negative news flow on Spain is gaining momentum,”
said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank
AG in London. “The protests will definitely add to the
pressure, but negative news regarding the regions pose a bigger
risk” to Spanish borrowing costs, he said.  Italy’s  10-year yield  rose 10 basis points to 5.20 percent,
and the two-year yield also climbed 10 basis points, to 2.43
percent. The nation sold 9 billion euros of bills.  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets, followed by Finland, according to measures of 10-year
or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread between two- and 10-year
securities and credit-default swaps.  Irish Bonds  Irish bonds due in October 2020 dropped for a second day,
with the yield rising 13 basis points to 5.17 percent.  The statement by the German, Dutch and Finnish Finance
Ministers “will come as a disappointment to the Irish
government, who have been hoping for a significant element of
‘relief’ to their overall debt sustainability,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Dublin.  German bunds were also boosted as the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden said annual inflation slowed to 2 percent
this month, from 2.1 percent in August. Slower inflation helps
preserve the purchasing power of the fixed payments from bonds.  Germany’s bonds returned 2.4 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities rose 1.5 percent, while Ireland’s gained 26 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  