-- German Stocks Drop as Plosser Says Bond Buying May Fail
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-09-26T15:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/german-stocks-drop-as-plosser-says-bond-buying-may-fail.html
German stocks  fell the most in
almost eight weeks after Federal  Reserve Bank  of Philadelphia
President Charles Plosser said the latest round of quantitative
easing probably won’t boost growth or employment in the U.S.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  sank 6.5 percent as investors disagreed
over how Germany’s biggest bank should raise capital.  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  dropped 3.8 percent and  Daimler AG (DAI)  slid 3.3 percent. Banks
and carmakers dropped the most of the 19 industry groups in the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   The  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 2 percent to 7,276.51 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , its biggest drop since Aug. 2. The
benchmark has still  rallied 22 percent  from this year’s low on
June 5 as European Central Bank policy makers approved an
unlimited bond-buying program and the Fed started a third round
of asset purchases. The broader HDAX Index fell 2 percent today.  “There has been underlying nervousness for the past few
days,” Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG in  London , said
in a telephone interview. “Plosser’s comments that bond buying
might fail and discontent in  Spain  are leading to risk aversion
taking hold again.”  The number of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 28 percent higher than the 30-day average today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Plosser said late yesterday that the Fed’s bond-buying
program will probably fail to stimulate growth or hiring and may
jeopardize the central bank’s credibility.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said on Sept. 13 that it
will undertake a third round of quantitative easing by
purchasing mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion
per month until labor markets improve. Policy makers have turned
to unconventional tools to attack a  jobless rate  stuck above 8
percent since February 2009.  Stimulus Effectiveness  “The effectiveness of quantitative easing is wearing
off,” Petra Grafin von Kerssenbrock, a technical analyst at
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  in Frankfurt wrote in a message. “The
announcement of a third round of quantitative easing should
already be incorporated in the most recent price movement.”  Deutsche Bank slumped 6.5 percent to 30.67 euros. Some
investors favor the lender’s plan to avoid a share sale while
others oppose it, said co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain.  “I’m getting two responses,” Jain said yesterday at a
conference hosted by Bank of America Corp. in London. Jain said
he has met with investors after unveiling the firm’s strategy on
Sept. 11 and that those who “have been with us” told Deutsche
Bank “without exception that they applaud management’s
commitment to grow this capital organically.”  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-largest lender, retreated 5.7
percent to 1.42 euros.  Carmakers Fall  Volkswagen,  Europe’s biggest carmaker , slipped 3.8 percent
to 146.40 euros. Daimler, the world’s third-largest maker of
 luxury vehicles , fell 3.3 percent to 38.16 euros.  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the biggest manufacturer of luxury cars, lost
2 percent to 57.62 euros.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  dropped 3.4 percent to 4.94 euros.
Jefferies Group Inc. downgraded its recommendation on the shares
to underperform, the equivalent of sell, from hold. The stock
slid more than 6 percent yesterday after Europe’s second-biggest
semiconductor maker said sales and profit would decline in the
three months through December.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  lost 2.1 percent to 10.70 euros after
 Europe’s biggest airline by sales  was replaced by EasyJet Plc on
Morgan Stanley’s best ideas list.  SAP AG, the world’s largest maker of business-management
software, fell 2.8 percent to 55.11 euros. Karl Liebstueckel,
the head of the German-speaking SAP user association DSAG said
that customers want more functions on SAP’s core system,
according to a report in Handelsblatt.  Fresenius Medical Care AG advanced 2.2 percent to 56.54
euros. The world’s biggest provider of  kidney dialysis  expects
to spend the remaining $300 million left in its $1.8 billion
acquisition budget, according to Chief Financial Officer Michael Brosnan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  