-- Gilmore Says Irish Debt Deal Won’t Unravel
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-09-27T12:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/gilmore-says-irish-debt-deal-won-t-unravel.html
Irish Deputy Prime Minister  Eamon Gilmore  said an accord that paved the way to cut the country’s
legacy bank debt won’t unravel as he sought to calm investor
concern that German-led opposition could derail the agreement.  “The formal agreed position of the European Union is what
was settled in June,” said Gilmore in an interview yesterday
at Bloomberg’s headquarters office in  New York . “That is the
settled and agreed position and we have been progressing
discussions with other member-states and with the European
institutions on that basis and that is not changed by the
statement that was issued.”  Irish bonds slumped yesterday after finance chiefs from
 Germany , the Netherlands and  Finland  indicated a retreat from
the June agreement to allow the euro-area bailout fund to
recapitalize banks. Their  statement  on Sept. 25 excluded
“legacy assets” from the region’s rescue facility.  “We have to make a distinction between a statement that’s
issued by a group of ministers and a formal agreement that’s
reached by ministers collectively or by heads of state in
government,” Gilmore said. “Between differences of language
and so on and so forth, sometimes we can put a little too much
emphasis on finding a particular word or phrase or a couple of
phrases and reading too much into that.”  Bank Bailout  The Irish state is lobbying European leaders to help lower
the cost of its bank bailout. The government has pledged or
injected 64 billion euros ($82 billion) into its banking system
and nationalized five of its six biggest domestic lenders. The
yield on Ireland’s 5 percent security due in October 2020 was
little changed at 5.15 percent today after climbing 11 basis
points yesterday.  The legacy of the rescue is weighing on the economy, which
almost collapsed in tandem with the bursting of a real estate
bubble in 2008. Unemployment tripled to 14.7 percent in August
from 2007 while austerity measures between 2008 and 2015 amount
to more than 30 billion euros, or about 20 percent of gross
domestic product.  Gilmore said the Irish government will “stay the course to
fulfill and complete” its mandate, after Roisin Shortall
resigned yesterday as a junior minister for health in the most
high-profile exit from the government since it was founded in
March of last year. Shortall resigned too as a member of the
 Labour Party ’s parliamentary grouping, of which Gilmore is the
leader.  ‘Difficult Days’  While there will be “difficult days” for the government,
Gilmore said it will remain focused on what it was elected to do
after pledging to voters to renegotiate the terms of the
country’s international bailout. “We’ve done a huge amount to
restore our country’s reputation which was in tatters 18 months
ago when we took office.”  The state stepped up its attempts to achieve retroactive
bank recapitalization after a June 29 euro-region leaders’
decision paved the way for direct European aid for banks.  At the June gathering in Brussels, as  Europe ’s debt crisis
escalated, the leaders opened up the possibility of aiding banks
once a single supervisory system overseeing the region’s lenders
was in place. The group also agreed to look again at the Irish
financial sector in a bid to “further improve” the nation’s
bailout program.  ‘Winner Needed’  “Europe needs a winner and Ireland is going to be that
winner and I think that there is an appreciation of that in the
other capitals in Europe,” Gilmore said. “That is one of the
reasons why a very expressed mention was made in June of the
Irish situation and of addressing it.”  The  International Monetary Fund  said earlier this month
that Ireland would “significantly reduce” its financing needs
in the coming years if it could replace about 30 billion euros
of so-called promissory notes used to bail out former Anglo
Irish Bank Corp. with long-term  government securities  or a euro-
area bailout fund loan.  Gilmore is the latest Irish leader to try and calm investor
concern that the deal might unravel. Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
told the Irish parliament yesterday that “there is no going
back” from the decision. Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said
“the principle of breaking the link between the sovereigns and
banks has been agreed by heads of state and government. No one
has questioned that.”  Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said he tends
not to react to headlines generated by “some ministers,” after
the German, Dutch and Finnish finance ministers’ statement.  It’s probably not surprising “that sometimes, it’s two
steps forward and one step back,” he said at an event in Dublin
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  