-- Google’s Driverless Cars Permitted by New California Law
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-09-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/google-s-driverless-cars-permitted-by-new-california-law.html
Self-driving cars will soon motor
around the most populous U.S. state, at least on a test basis,
after a law written with the help of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  was signed by
 California  Governor  Jerry Brown .  The  law  signed yesterday allows trials of autonomous
vehicles on the state’s roadways as long as there’s a licensed
human in the driver’s seat to take over if needed.  “Today we are looking at science fiction become tomorrow’s
reality,” Brown said at a signing ceremony at Google’s
headquarters in  Mountain View , California.  Google, the operator of the world’s largest Internet search
engine, has modified a Toyota Prius that drives itself using
video cameras, radar sensors, a laser rangefinder and detailed
maps. The vehicle includes a failsafe mechanism that lets the
driver take control by grabbing the steering wheel or hitting
the brakes, much like the override on a cruise control.  While major carmakers are working on self-driving
prototypes and rolling out semi-autonomous features such as
parking assistance, lane-departure warning systems and adaptive
cruise control, it’s Google’s car that inspired the push for
regulatory clearance first in  Nevada  last year and now in
California.  “Anybody who gets into a car and finds the car driving
itself is going to be skittish at first,” said Brown, who took
a test ride. “But they will get over it.”  The law directs the Department of Motor Vehicles to develop
regulations governing the licensing, bonding, testing and
operation of autonomous vehicles.  Google’s shares were little changed at $749.16 in  New York 
yesterday, one day after reaching a record $749.38, the highest
since its initial public offering in August 2004. The stock
advanced 16 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  