-- Greenbriar Said to Seek Capital for Transportation Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-09-26T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/greenbriar-said-to-seek-capital-for-transportation-fund.html
Greenbriar Equity Group LLC, the
private-equity firm whose co-founders include two former
executives at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., is seeking $1.25 billion
for its next transportation-focused fund, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Greenbriar Equity Fund III LP’s predecessor in 2007 raised
$1 billion, surpassing its $750 million target.  Park Hill Group, the placement agent arm of  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , is helping market the fund, which will invest in
transportation and related manufacturing, service, distribution
and logistics companies. Rye, New York-based Greenbriar
typically targets equity investments of $75 million to $125
million.  Fred Spar, a spokesman for the firm, declined to comment.  Greenbriar is one of the few private-equity firms devoted
to transportation investments. There are 349 private-equity
funds that include the industry as part of their focus, and
about 30 of them list transportation deals as a significant part
of their investment strategy, according to data from researcher
Preqin Ltd.  “Industry specialization has been a pervasive trend for a
number of years,” said Jake Elmhirst, a managing director at
 UBS Investment Bank  in  New York . Clients want to back managers
“that are deep in industries because they are in a better
position to identify the most attractive businesses before they
are broadly marketed.”  Earlier Returns  The new fund will charge a 2 percent management fee and 20
percent of profits as carried interest, said one of the people
asking not to be identified because the information is private.  The prior fund, Greenbriar Equity Fund II LP, was
generating a 1.4 times multiple and 17 percent gross internal
rate of return as of June 30, according to another person.  In one exit, the firm and its investment partners agreed in
January to sell AmSafe Global Holdings Inc., a supplier of
safety and restraint equipment for the  aerospace industry 
including seat belts and airbags, to TransDigm Group Inc. for
about $750 million.  Joel Beckman, Gerald Greenwald and Reginald Jones III
helped found the firm in 1999. Beckman previously worked as a
managing director at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., where he founded
the bank’s global transportation group in 1987. Jones also
worked at Goldman Sachs, where he was a managing director and
group head of global transportation investment banking.
Greenwald previously was chairman and chief executive officer of
UAL Corp., then-parent of  United Airlines .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  