-- Libor Spurned, Credit Scores, German Audit: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-26T12:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/libor-spurned-credit-score-review-germany-s-audit-compliance.html
The British Bankers’ Association
signaled it will give up oversight of the London interbank
offered rate following claims traders manipulated the benchmark.  Financial Services Authority Managing Director Martin
Wheatley is reviewing whether to bring oversight of the
benchmark under the control of regulators after  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
Britain’s second-biggest lender, paid a record 290 million-pound
($471 million) fine in June for manipulating Libor. Regulators
worldwide are probing at least a dozen banks over allegations
they also tried to rig the rate.  The London-based lobby group said in a statement yesterday
that it will support Wheatley’s recommendations.  The BBA’s role as guardian of Libor, used to set rates for
at least $300 trillion of securities, has been under pressure
since the Bank for International Settlements first raised
concern in 2008 that the benchmark was being manipulated.  The BBA’s response was branded inadequate by the Bank of
England, while U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has said
private, unregulated bodies such as the BBA shouldn’t oversee
rates such as Libor.  After regulators began to probe Libor again last year, the
BBA started another internal review of the benchmark. The BBA’s
council passed a motion on Sept. 13 to give up responsibility
for overseeing the rate, two people with knowledge of the plan
said yesterday. They asked not to be identified because the
meeting was private.  The  BBA  represents more than 200 banks and lobbies policy
makers and regulators on behalf of the industry.  Dan Doctoroff , chief executive officer of Bloomberg LP, has
proposed an alternative to Libor dubbed the Bloomberg Interbank
Offered Rate, or Blibor. It would use data from a variety of
financial transactions to better reflect participating banks’
real cost of credit. Bloomberg LP is the parent of Bloomberg
News.  For more, click here.  Separately, the watchdog for the U.S. financial crisis
bailout program said the  Treasury Department  and Federal Reserve
should stop using the London interbank offered rate for
transactions tied to the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  Use of Libor for TARP should not continue because “there’s
no confidence or assurance that it’s reliable” and it could
potentially be subject to manipulation,  Christy Romero , special
inspector general for TARP, said in an interview. The Treasury’s
Public-Private Investment Program, or PPIP, and the Fed’s Term
Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALF, should use rates
other than Libor, she said. There are alternative interest rates
in the contracts for both TARP programs, Romero said.  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark interest rate for more
than $500 trillion of securities, was shaken following Barclays
Plc’s admission in June that it submitted false rates. Barclays
was fined 290 million pounds ($471 million) by regulators in the
U.S. and U.K.  Fed spokeswoman Barbara Hagenbaugh said in an e-mail Sept.
24 that the central bank had received the request from Romero
and plans to respond. Under TALF, a bailout program that started
operating in March 2009, the Fed lent funds to investors in
highly rated asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage-
backed securities.  The Treasury Department also has received Romero’s
recommendation on PPIP and plans to respond “shortly,”
spokesman  Matthew Anderson  said Sept. 24. PPIP was started in
2009 to help revive the mortgage-backed securities market. The
Treasury has estimated that taxpayers will get a $3 billion
profit from PPIP.  TARP was enacted under the George W. Bush administration
amid the 2008 financial crisis.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Will Give Banks 2 Minutes to Accept or Reject Cleared Swaps  Swaps dealers will have two minutes to accept or reject
trades that will be sent to clearinghouses starting next month,
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said in the most-
detailed requirement about timing to date.  The time allowed for trade approval will fall to one minute
90 days after the CFTC rules are published in the Federal
Register, according to a Sept. 21 e-mail sent by Ananda
Radhakrishnan, director of the division of clearing and risk.
Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have  argued  that the
technology to instantly verify the credit and risk allowance of
their customers doesn’t exist and asked the CFTC to reconsider.  The CFTC time limits, verified by spokesman  Steve Adamske ,
contrast with the commission’s  final rule  in this area, which
stated that acceptance be done “as quickly after submission as
would be technologically practicable if fully automated systems
were used.” The rule is set to become effective Oct. 1.  The e-mail, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News,
was sent to executives at clearinghouse owners  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
 Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and
representatives of the  Futures Industry Association .  Germans Tout Bailout Safeguards With Seat on ESM Audit Board  Germany’s top auditor will have a say on oversight and
decision-making at Europe’s permanent rescue fund, developments
that the Finance Ministry in Berlin said offer added protection
to taxpayers when the backstop comes online next month.  Draft bylaws for the fund, known as the European Stability
Mechanism, include a formula for which nations will serve on its
audit board, according to a copy prepared for German lawmakers
and obtained by Bloomberg News. The oversight board will examine
the fund’s performance, risk management and compliance, and will
have full access to all ESM documents and reports, the draft
shows.  Germany’s Finance Ministry said in a letter accompanying
the draft that the proposed rules ensure Germany’s court of
auditors will take part. “In the negotiations, the government
laid the groundwork for the Federal Court of Auditors to be able
to have a seat on the Audit Committee from the moment the ESM is
set up,” the ministry said.  The audit move underscores government efforts to reassure
voters one year out from federal elections that  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s euro rescue efforts won’t squander public money.
It follows a decision by Germany’s top constitutional court this
month not to block the fund’s launch.  For more, click here, and click here.  Banks Prevented by SEC From Hiding Some Municipal Bond Yields  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission approved
regulations that will prevent banks from keeping secret the
yields on certain state and local government bonds during the
first trading day.  The SEC on Sept. 21 approved rules that require
underwriters to disclose yields on bonds that aren’t immediately
offered for resale to investors, the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board said Sept. 24. The board proposed the change in
March, which will require more rapid dissemination of
information that previously may not have been available to the
public until the end of the trading day.  The rules are aimed at injecting more transparency into the
$3.7 trillion municipal bond market, which is used by states,
cities and school districts to finance public projects.  The change will make it easier for public officials and
investors to compare yields on newly issued bonds during the
first trading day. It takes effect on Nov. 1.  The SEC approves and enforces rules proposed by the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.  Compliance Action  Consumers Given Different Credit Scores Than Lenders, CFPB Says  One in five U.S. consumers is likely to receive a credit
score different than the one given to lenders, potentially
closing off access to credit for millions of Americans, the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau found in a study released
yesterday.  The  study  came five days before the consumer agency,
created by the Dodd-Frank law of 2010, is to begin supervision
of credit-reporting companies’ records and practices. The work
involves direct examination of about 30 businesses, including
the three biggest,  Equifax Inc. (EFX) ,  Experian Plc (EXPN)  and  TransUnion
Corp. (TRUN)   Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, consumers are entitled
to a free copy of their credit report each year. Consumer
advocates have long charged that credit-reporting companies
provide varying scores to lenders, potentially driving the cost
of credit higher or depriving consumers of it entirely.  SEC Says New York Firm Allowed High-Speed Stock Manipulation  A New York-based brokerage allowed overseas clients to run
a scheme aimed at distorting stock prices by rapidly canceling
orders, according to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Clients of Hold Brothers On-Line Investment Services were
“repeatedly manipulating publicly traded stocks” by placing
and erasing orders in an illegal strategy designed to trick
others into buying or selling, the SEC said yesterday in a
release. Hold Brothers, its owners, and the foreign firms Trade
Alpha Corporate Ltd. and Demonstrate LLC agreed to settle
allegations that the New York broker failed to supervise
customers and pay $4 million in total SEC fines.  The SEC  complaint  targeted practices that abused high-speed
computer trading on American equity venues. As high-frequency
activity has grown in recent years, the agency’s efforts to stop
fraudulent practices such as “layering” or “spoofing” have
extended to the automated trading tactics. The trading in this
case occurred from at least January 2009 to September 2010, the
agency said.  Along with Hold Brothers, the SEC charged its co-founder
and president, Steve Hold, who created and partially owned Trade
Alpha and Demonstrate, according to yesterday’s release. Robert
Vallone, a former chief compliance officer and chief financial
officer, and William Tobias, another executive, were also
charged and agreed to the penalties.  A phone call to the Hold Brothers main number and an e-mail
to the general media address weren’t immediately returned.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and exchanges
owned by Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., NYSE Euronext and Bats Global
Markets Inc. fined Hold Brothers $3.4 million for manipulative
trading activities and other violations, bringing the total
fines to the broker to more than $5.9 million.  For more, click here.  Courts  RBS Instant Messages Show Libor Rates Skewed With Traders  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  trader Tan Chi Min told
colleagues the firm was able to move global interest rates,
according to court filings.  Transcripts of the internal instant messages were included
in a 231-page affidavit filed Sept. 19 by Tan, the bank’s former
Singapore-based head of delta trading for Asia, who’s suing
Britain’s third-biggest lender by assets for wrongful dismissal
after being fired last year for allegedly trying to manipulate
the London interbank offered rate, or Libor.  The conversations among traders at RBS and firms including
Deutsche Bank AG illustrate how the risk of abuse was embedded
in the process for setting Libor, the benchmark for more than
$300 trillion of securities worldwide. RBS, 81 percent-owned by
the British government, is one of at least a dozen banks being
probed over allegations they colluded to manipulate the rate so
they could profit from bets on interest-rate derivatives.  RBS sent Tan copies of instant-message chats he had with
others as evidence of potential wrongdoing in an Aug. 29, 2011,
letter telling him the bank was bringing disciplinary
proceedings against him, the papers show. Tan said in his
lawsuit, filed in December, that the bank had condoned the rates
manipulation and sought scapegoats in an internal probe.  The bank asked in a Sept. 24 filing that the Singapore High
Court seal the papers until at least one of the probes by the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Justice
Department’s fraud division and Britain’s Financial Services
Authority is completed.  Making the documents publicly accessible may have
“extensive potential prejudice” on the confidential regulatory
investigations, RBS said in the filing. The court documents,
inspected yesterday, have now been sealed.  “Our investigations into submissions, communications and
procedures relating to the setting of Libor and other interest
rates are ongoing,” the bank said in an e-mail. “RBS and its
employees continue to cooperate fully with regulators.”  The case is Tan Chi Min v. The Royal Bank of Scotland.
S939/2011. Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  SAC Manager Said to Be Uncharged Insider-Trading Conspirator  A hedge fund manager at  Steven Cohen ’s SAC Capital Advisors
LP is an unindicted co-conspirator in a $62 million insider-
trading scheme tied to technology stocks, two people familiar
with the matter said.  The role allegedly played by Michael Steinberg emerged in
court papers filed by the U.S. in the securities-fraud case of
Jon Horvath, a former technology analyst at Cohen’s $14 billion
hedge fund whom Steinberg supervised. Steinberg, who hasn’t been
charged with a crime, is the fifth person to be tied to insider
trading while employed at SAC.  Horvath faces trial Oct. 29 in Manhattan federal court
along with two other portfolio managers for his part in what
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara called a “criminal
club:” a conspiracy of hedge fund managers, co-workers and
company insiders who reaped millions of dollars on illegal tips
about  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)   “The government added four additional co-conspirators,”
prosecutors wrote in a Sept. 6 letter filed with the court, with
the names blacked out. One of them, the U.S. said, is “the
portfolio manager to whom Jon Horvath reported at his hedge
fund.” That person was Steinberg, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Steinberg, 40, of SAC’s Sigma Capital Management unit, has
worked at the hedge fund since 1997. His lawyer, Barry Berke,
declined to comment on the letter.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Stamford, Connecticut-
based SAC, and Ellen Davis, a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined
to comment on the court filing.  Horvath, and his co-defendants, Level Global Investors LP
co-founder Anthony Chiasson and ex-Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager Todd Newman, are accused of
participating in a conspiracy with other portfolio managers,
analysts and insiders at technology firms who swapped tips
between 2007 and 2009.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  UBS Co-Workers Knew of Fictitious Trades, Adoboli Told Lawyer  Kweku Adoboli’s co-workers knew he was making fictitious
trades, the former  UBS AG (UBSN)  banker told an attorney who
interviewed him on the night of his arrest in September 2011.  Adoboli told Damien Byrne Hill, a lawyer at Herbert Smith
LLP who represented the Swiss bank, that his colleagues on the
exchange-traded funds desk were aware of fake trades from May,
though they didn’t know the extent of his positions.  Hill’s notes from the discussion with Adoboli, read out by
a prosecutor at the former trader’s fraud trial in London
yesterday, indicated that while his colleagues were “unhappy”
about the trades, they didn’t alert managers.  Adoboli, 32, has pleaded not guilty to charges of fraud and
false accounting over unauthorized trades on which UBS lost $2.3
billion. The former trader admitted hours before his arrest that
he had risked $5 billion on Standard & Poor’s 500 futures and a
further $3.75 billion in the German futures market, a former
manager testified.  For more, click here.  SEC Fraud Lawsuit Deadlines Draw Review From U.S. Supreme Court  The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear an appeal that seeks
to force the Securities and Exchange Commission to move more
quickly in pressing fraud lawsuits.  The justices yesterday said they will hear arguments from
two Gabelli Funds LLC officials seeking to block SEC claims that
they improperly let a client engage in market timing, a practice
of making frequent, short-term trades at the expense of other
investors.  Marc J. Gabelli and Bruce Alpert contend that the SEC sued
after the five-year window for seeking penalties had expired. A
federal appeals court in New York said the suit could go forward
because the window doesn’t open in fraud cases until the SEC has
reason to know a violation has occurred.  The case raises issues similar to those addressed by the
Supreme Court in 2010, when it ruled that the two-year period
for shareholder fraud suits doesn’t begin until investors have
indications of intentional company wrongdoing. The new case
concerns SEC enforcement actions, rather than private suits.  Gabelli and Alpert contend that, under the appeals court
ruling, “the SEC would be able to bring an ancient claim on the
mere allegation that it did not discover and could not have
discovered the violation earlier.”  The court will hear arguments early next year and rule by
June. The case is Gabelli v. SEC, 11-1274.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 