-- Libya Trains Thousands of Rebels to Guard Oil Facilities
-- B y   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r
-- 2012-09-26T14:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/libya-trains-thousands-of-rebels-to-guard-oil-facilities.html
Libya  is training former rebels to
protect oil installations across the North African nation, the
head of the country’s state  oil company  said.  The ministry of defense is training 10,339 citizens and
militiamen who took part in the revolt that ousted the regime of
 Muammar Qaddafi  last year, National Oil Corp. Chairman Nuri Berruien said yesterday in a telephone interview in the capital,
Tripoli. They will join an existing force of 2,500 security
workers by the end of the year, he said.  “All our terminals and fields are secure but there are
some skirmishes in remote areas,” Berruien said. “Traveling
between fields can be complicated.”  Libya, holder of  Africa ’s biggest  crude  reserves, has been
working to boost oil output after last year’s rebellion led to a
drop in production to as little as 45,000 barrels a day from 1.6
million barrels previously, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Output has returned to just under the pre-conflict level, Oil
Minister Abdul-Rahman Ben Yezza said on Sept. 24 at a conference
in Tripoli.  “Protecting the petroleum installations is a national
priority, as our economy depends on it,” Sadeeq Mabruk Al
Obeidi, the deputy defense minister, said at a news conference
in Tripoli today.  Ministry Spending  The ministry has spent 150 million dinars ($120 million) in
the last eight months to reform border patrol units and train
guards for energy installations, he said. “We are increasing
our border patrol battalions from four to 12 and the border
guards unit will be an independent body reporting directly to
the minister of defense, and not the chief of staff,” he said.  The country’s ruling authority issued a decree in May that
banned overseas security companies from entering the country. As
of late June, the government was still considering alternative
ways of providing security for embassies and foreign companies
and hadn’t enforced the decree, according to a government
spokesman, Nasser Al Manaa.  “We cannot expect the guards to have the technical
expertise of a refinery or well-head operations,” Felix
Castaneda, general manager for  Repsol (REP)  YPF SA in Libya, said last
week.  Oil companies  may be reluctant to use local services,
according to  Optimal Risk , a U.K. provider of security to oil
companies in Libya that is also involved in the training program
being financed by the state-owned oil company.  “I have an international oil company client in Murzuq and
I doubt they will want to give up our services,” Robert Shaw, a
director at Optimal Risk, said yesterday by phone. Many of the
local workers only speak Arabic because foreign language tuition
was banned under Qaddafi, he said.  Security companies continue to charge high fees in Libya,
even though the country’s security has improved, Shaw said.  “Some of the foreign security companies are exaggerating
the risks and charging very high fees to their clients as a
result,” he said. “We are not in a war zone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brigitte Scheffer in Tripoli at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  