-- Michelin Names New York’s Best Value Eateries
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-09-26T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/michelin-names-new-york-s-best-value-eateries-for-40-or-less.html
Battersby, a casual venue in
 Brooklyn , is among a record 126 restaurants that Michelin says
offer value for money in  New York City .  The list of establishments that provide two courses and a
glass of wine for $40 or less (plus tax and gratuity) is up from
114 last year and spans 31 cuisines, Michelin said today in an
e-mailed release. The value-for-money accolade is known as a Bib
Gourmand.  The winners were named a week before the planned release of
“Michelin Guide New York City 2013,” which will include
establishments that have been awarded stars. The U.K. and
Ireland guide is scheduled for Oct. 4.  Chef  David Chang ’s Momofuku Noodle Bar and Momofuku Ssam
Bar remain on the Bib Gourmand list. Battersby’s chef-owners
Joseph Ogrodnek and Walker Stern previously worked together at
 Alain Ducasse  at the Essex House after graduating from the
Culinary Institute of America in 2002.  Winners this time include: Alobar, August, Basil Brick Oven
Pizza, Calyer, Casa Enrique, Don Antonio by Starita, Enoteca
Maria, Family Recipe, Gran Electrica, Havana Cafe, Hino Maru
Ramen, Il Buco Alimentari & Vineria, Land of Plenty, Laut, Lu
Xiang  Yuan , Ornella, Pok Pok, Speedy Romeo, Sura, Uncle Zhou,
Untitled and Yunnan Kitchen.  Michelin, the world’s second-biggest tiremaker, produced
its first guide in 1900. It was distributed free of charge until
1920 and intended for chauffeurs. The guide contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on repairing tires.
The company is based in Clermont-Ferrand,  France .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining,
 Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and  Scott Reyburn  on art
auctions.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 