-- India Said to Mull Calendar for Share Sales Starting With NTPC
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-09-26T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/india-said-to-mull-calendar-for-share-sales-starting-with-ntpc.html
India’s government is considering
selling shares in state companies at regular intervals based on
a public calendar, two officials with knowledge of the proposal
said, as the nation steps up efforts to pare its  budget deficit .  The Finance Ministry is reviewing the plan for scheduled
disposals, the two officials said, asking not to be identified
as the deliberations aren’t public. Shares in New Delhi-based
 NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) , India’s biggest electricity producer, would be
offered first, one of the officials said.  India has the widest  budget deficit  among major emerging
nations and raised diesel prices this month for the first time
in over a year to contain the gap by paring fuel subsidies. The
government aims to raise 300 billion rupees ($5.6 billion) from
share sales in the year that began April 1 to narrow the fiscal
shortfall and avert a credit-rating downgrade.  “The strategy seems to be to revive market sentiment,” said
Amol Agrawal, an economist at STCI Primary Dealer Ltd. in Mumbai.
“It will be challenging to translate that into actual sales and
the government needs to give us its long-term plan to curtail
the deficit.”  Stakes in nine companies where the government holds more
than 90 percent would be sold by June 30, 2013 based on the plan
under consideration, one of the officials said. The sales would
occur in a specified period every month or fortnight, both
officials said.  Potential Disposals  The Indian government has a shareholding exceeding 90
percent in 12 companies, according to SMC Global Securities Ltd.
They are  HMT Ltd. (HMT) ,  Fertilisers & Chemicals Travancore Ltd. (FCT) ,
 Scooters India Ltd. (SCTR) ,  Neyveli Lignite Corp. (NLC) ,  Andrew Yule & Co.
Ltd. (ANY) ,  ITI Ltd. (ITI) ,  Rashtriya Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd., (RCF)   State
Trading Corp. of India Ltd. ,  State Bank of Mysore ,  MMTC Ltd. (MMTC) ,
 National Fertilizers Ltd. (NFL)  and  Hindustan Copper Ltd. (HCP)   The administration has raised 1.25 billion rupees so far
this fiscal year from the sale of a stake in  National Buildings
Construction Corp. (NBCC)   Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  followed the 14 percent rise
in diesel prices with steps to open the economy to more foreign
investment, part of a burst of policy changes to revive Asia’s
third-largest economy after months of inaction.  The government set a budget-deficit target of 5.1 percent
of gross domestic product for the current financial year in the
budget released in March. Citigroup Inc. estimates the shortfall
will be 5.9 percent and Crisil, Standard & Poor’s local unit,
forecasts 6.2 percent. The deficit was 5.8 percent in 2011-2012.  The  Reserve Bank  of India has signaled that narrowing the
budget gap is pivotal to increasing room for  interest-rate cuts 
to bolster economic expansion.  GDP grew 5.5 percent in the three months through June from
a year earlier, a pace close to the three-year low of 5.3
percent in the first quarter. The faltering expansion has sapped
tax revenues as subsidies from food to fuel stoke government
spending.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings reduced the outlook on
India’s credit rating to negative from stable earlier this year,
bringing the nation a step closer to junk status on risks
including the fiscal gap and a trade deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  