-- Indonesia Regulator Awaits Bumi Probe Before Taking Action
-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i   a n d   T o m   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-09-27T05:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/indonesian-regulator-waits-for-bumi-probe-before-taking-action.html
Indonesia’s capital markets
regulator will await the results of  Bumi Plc (BUMI) ’s probe into claims
of financial irregularities at associated companies in the
Southeast Asian country before taking any action.  Bumi Plc, the London-listed 29 percent-shareholder in  PT
Bumi Resources (BUMI) , said Sept. 24 it commissioned an urgent inquiry
into “potential financial and other irregularities” at its
Indonesian operations, especially the Jakarta-based coal miner.  “The problem between the subsidiary and the parent
company, as long as it’s not material, is not a problem and
doesn’t need to be disclosed,” Ngalim Sawega, acting head of
the Capital Market and Financial Institutions Supervisory
Agency, or Bapepam-LK, told reporters yesterday in Jakarta.
“But if it’s material then it needs to be disclosed so that the
market or investors can take a position. If this is not
disclosed then they will get a penalty.”  Bumi Plc, founded by  Nathaniel Rothschild , has hired
lawyers to look into the writedown of as much as $637 million of
so-called development funds and exploration assets. It’s the
latest turn in a dispute involving Rothschild, 41, and
Indonesia’s Bakrie family since they agreed to a $3 billion deal
in 2010 that married a centuries-old British banking dynasty
with a family-owned palm oil-to-property-empire started in
Sumatra in 1942.  Refinance Debt  The irregularities and subsequent investigation may hamper
Bumi Resources as it seeks to refinance debt in the next year,
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service said. Bumi
Resources has debt of $3.95 billion, $300 million of which falls
due in the next 12 months, according to Moody’s. S&P put that
figure at $400 million.  S&P cut its long-term rating on Bumi Resources by one step
to B+ from BB-, according to a statement. Moody’s changed the
outlook on the company to negative from stable.  “The investigation could weaken Bumi Resources’ access to
the capital markets and test its ability to refinance its short-
term debt,” S&P said.  Bumi Resources shares rose as much as 9 percent today to
730 rupiah as of 12:07 p.m. in Jakarta. The shares are down
about 14 percent since the end of last week.  “Investors are waiting for the outcome of the Bumi Plc
probe and so it’s an opportunity to start collecting again after
the sharp drop,” said Maxi Liesyaputra, an analyst at PT BNI
Securities in Jakarta.  Production Goal  Bumi Resources received no advance notice of Bumi Plc’s
probe, it said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The company
said it’s in contact with Bapepam-LK and the stock exchange to
resolve the matter as quickly as possible.  “We don’t believe that there are any issues with regard to
the settlement of debt or other things,”  Dileep Srivastava ,
director at Bumi Resources, said Sept. 25 in a phone interview.
“Our concentration is on getting our operations right,
increasing our production to 100 million tons, trying to cut
costs, to monetize our non-core assets, get down to settling
debt, get down to reducing interest charges.”  The controversy over the writedown is possibly a result of
differing accounting standards, Srivastava said.  Bumi Resources fell 2.9 percent to 670 rupiah yesterday in
Jakarta. The shares have declined 70 percent this year, hurt by
falling coal prices and concerns it may struggle to pay debt. It
owes $1.3 billion to China Investment Corp.  In London, Bumi Plc fell 7.1 percent to 156 pence as of the
close. The stock slumped 25 percent on Sept. 24 to a record.  The Bumi Plc board is considering a split from Bumi
Resources to revive investor confidence, the Financial Times
reported, without saying how it obtained the information.  Response Expected  The  Indonesia  stock exchange sent a letter to Bumi
Resources on Sept. 24 asking management to explain the case and
expects a response this week, Uriep Budhi Prasetyo, compliance
director at the exchange, said in a text message.  The probe comes almost 11 months after Rothschild, whose
ancestor helped bankroll Britain’s war against Napoleonic
 France , made public a letter to then-Bumi Plc CEO Hudaya calling
for a “radical cleaning up” of the company and a timetable for
the “repatriation of funds deposited with connected parties.”  The Nov. 8 letter cited $394 million of business
development funds under non-current assets on the balance sheet
of Bumi Resources as of June 20, 2011.  Probe Focus  The probe will focus on “extensive” development funds at
Bumi Resources and an asset in PT Berau Coal Energy, which were
marked down to zero in the accounts of Bumi Plc as of Dec. 31,
the company said. It gave no figures for the writedown.  According to its 2011 annual report published in April,
Bumi Plc wrote down the value of exploration assets by $390
million to zero. It also cut the value of business development
funds by $247 million.  PT Bakrie & Brothers -- controlled by Aburizal Bakrie, who
is the brother of Bumi Plc Co-Chairman Indra Bakrie -- sold half
of their 47.6 percent stake in Bumi Plc in November to help pay
$1.35 billion in debts owed to Credit Suisse Group AG. Aburizal
is the chairman of the Golkar Party of Indonesia, which was
founded by former dictator Suharto.  Bumi CEO Nalin Rathod said in a May interview that the
company was in talks to repay debt owed to CIC early as part of
a wider plan to reduce financing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net 
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  