-- Lira Weakens as Bank Increases Funding, Europe’s Debt Woes
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-09-26T13:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/lira-weakens-as-bank-increases-funding-europe-s-debt-woes.html
The lira weakened, trimming its
monthly advance, on increased funding by the central bank and
concern  Europe ’s debt-crisis woes are worsening.  The Turkish currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 1.7949 per
dollar, reducing its gain this month to 1.3 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on two-year benchmark
bonds rose one basis point to 7.53 percent.  Turkey’s central bank lent 3.5 billion liras ($2 billion)
in its daily repurchase agreements auction today at 5.75
percent, the benchmark policy rate, compared with 2 billion
liras a week ago and 2 billion liras yesterday. The bank varies
lenders’ borrowing costs daily, providing liquidity within its
policy rate and the overnight lending rate of 10 percent.  “The central bank leaves lots of liquidity to the market
today,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-market currency strategist at
Citigroup Inc in London, said in an e-mailed report today,
citing about 4 billion liras of extra liquidity provided by the
central bank. “We are tactically negative on the lira.”  Spanish bond yields surged the most this month as a second
night of violent protests loomed amid sparring over the police
response to clashes in  Madrid . Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
efforts to restore investor confidence suffered a new setback
yesterday when Catalan President Artur Mas called early
elections.  The European Stability Mechanism may have as little as 400
billion euros ($514 billion) remaining after  Spain ’s bank
bailout, said Klaus Regling, head of the euro area’s rescue
funds.  “We had some overnight news reports concerning the ESM and
its ability to directly recapitalize eurozone banks, which seems
to be at risk,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at
Commerzbank, said in e-mailed comments. “Markets seem to have
switched into risk-off mode today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ash Kumar in  London  at 
 akumar314@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  