-- Iranian Pleads Guilty to Illegal Export of Industrial Parts
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-09-26T20:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/iranian-pleads-guilty-to-illegal-export-of-industrial-parts-1-.html
Saeed Talebi, an Iranian national,
pleaded guilty today in  Manhattan  federal court to conspiring to
illegally export from the U.S. to  Iran  “parts and goods
designed for use in industrial operations.”  Federal prosecutors announced Talebi’s plea today in an e-
mailed statement. He was charged in July with procuring supplies
for Iran, and faced allegations he engaged in a scheme to
illegally export parts used in industrial petrochemical
operations in violation of the U.S trade embargo.  “It is critical that our trade sanctions against Iran be
strictly enforced, and we will continue to work with the
 Department of Commerce  and other law enforcement partners to
investigate and prosecute those who seek to violate our export
laws,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in the
statement.  Talebi’s lawyer, Sabrina Shroff, had no immediate comment.  Talebi was arrested at  John F. Kennedy International
Airport  in  New York  as he arrived in the U.S. He pleaded guilty
to one count of violating the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act, and faces as many as five years in prison, according
to the statement. He will be sentenced by U.S. District Judge
Laura Taylor Swain on Dec. 19.  According to today’s statement, Talebi pleaded guilty to
allegations contained in the July indictment, which claimed that
in 2011, Talebi ordered at least $390,000 worth of industrial
parts and goods from a business in Ardsley, New York, and then
worked to ship the items from the U.S. to Dubai and on to Iran.  The items were to be sent to petrochemical companies in
Iran in violation of U.S. criminal laws prohibiting shipments of
goods from the U.S. to Iran without a license, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Talebi, 12-CR-295, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  