-- Hirst AK-47, Beach Boys, Leonardo Wannabe: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-09-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/hirst-ak-47-beach-boys-leonardo-wannabe-london-weekend.html
The Beach Boys’ name is ever more a
misnomer as the “Boys” turn 70. London gets a chance to hear
that nothing’s changed, however, as the band brings its 50th-
anniversary tour to town.  The harmonies in “Wouldn’t It Be Nice” and the catchy riff
of “Good Vibrations” still sound fresh as the veterans, led by
 Brian Wilson , grind out their greatest hits.  Royal Albert Hall ,  Kensington Gore , SW7 2AP (Sept. 27);
Wembley Arena, Empire Way, HA9 0PA (Sept. 28). Information:
 http://www.thebeachboys.com ,  http://www.royalalberthall.com ,
 http://www.wembley.co.uk , +44-20-8782-5500, +44-845-401-5045.  Saturday  Damien Hirst  has spin-painted a machine gun that you can
bid for in a charity auction.  Hirst is one of two dozen artists to produce art with an
AK-47 for the anti-war Peace One Day. Others giving the guns
their signature treatment include Sarah Lucas, who sticks an AK-
47 between the legs of a soft doll; and Jake & Dinos Chapman,
who arm a pair of boys with genitally shaped noses.  More originally, sculptor  Antony Gormley  fits a machine gun
in a wiry, suspended corpse, turning the gun’s barrel into the
figure’s nostrils. And Antony Micallef has AK-47’s jutting out
of the eye sockets in his painting.  The guns are on show through Sunday at the ICA, The Mall,
 London  SW17 5AH. The Phillips de Pury auction is on Oct. 4.  Information:  http://www.peaceoneday.org .  Many restaurants close to the ICA are aimed at tourists.
It’s worth seeking out the Northall, in the very grand Corinthia
Hotel. The set lunch is 28 pounds, which might seem expensive
until you examine the prices on the main menu. Information:
 http://www.thenorthall.co.uk/  or +44-20-7321-3100.  Saturday Night  Up until fairly recently, a European woman’s options were
marriage, motherhood, adultery, and death -- and not necessarily
in that order.  Henrik Ibsen lays out the uneven odds in “Hedda Gabler”
(revived at the Old Vic). In a luminous interior of verandas and
brass chandeliers, feisty Hedda (Sheridan Smith) strives to
transcend her predicament and make a difference.  The staging is lively, and the actors solid, especially
Adrian Scarborough as Hedda’s dull, slipper-wearing spouse.
Smith (“Legally Blonde”) does fine, though her Hedda initially
comes across as a 21st-century trophy wife.  The biggest revelation is how “Hedda Gabler” still
resonates with women today. Information:
 http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or +44-844-871-7628.  Sunday  David Sedaris once spent a season dressed up as an elf at
the Macy’s department store in  New York .  The bestselling writer-humorist has gone on to create a
comedy acts around that and other topics. He performs Friday,
Saturday and Sunday evening at 6:30 p.m. at Cadogan Hall.  Information:  http://www.cadoganhall.com , +44-20-7730-4500.  Olivocarne, near Cadogan Hall, is a new Italian restaurant
specializing in meat dishes from Sardinia. It’s the latest in a
mini-chain of establishments (including Olivomare) known for the
quality and authenticity of the food. Information:
 http://www.olivorestaurants.com , +44-20-7730-7997.  If you’re a Leonardo wannabe, sharpen your pencil and head
for the V&A instead.  The “Big Draw” is a chance to produce sketches or self-
portraits, and design shoes, sofas, buildings, stage sets, or
tapestries. Non-practitioners can hear cartoonist Gerald Scarfe
look back on “50 Years of Being Rude,” or Nicholas Grimshaw
discuss his architectural projects.  “Big Draw, Big Make” is at the Victoria & Albert Museum,
Cromwell Road, SW7 2RL, from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Sunday.
Information:  http://www.bigdraw.org .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 