-- Fighting Recession the Icelandic Way
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-26T12:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/is-remedy-for-next-crisis-buried-in-iceland-view-correct-.html
Few countries blew up more
spectacularly than Iceland in the 2008 financial crisis. The
local stock market plunged 90 percent; unemployment rose
ninefold; inflation shot to more than 18 percent; the country’s
biggest banks all failed.  This was no post-Lehman Brothers recession: It was a
depression.  Since then, Iceland has turned in a pretty impressive
performance. It has repaid International Monetary Fund rescue
loans ahead of schedule. Growth this year will be about 2.5
percent, better than most developed economies. Unemployment has
fallen by half. In February,  Fitch Ratings  restored the
country’s investment-grade status, approvingly citing its
“unorthodox crisis policy response.”  You can say that again. Iceland’s approach was the polar
opposite of the U.S. and  Europe , which rescued their banks and
did little to aid indebted homeowners. Although lessons drawn
from Iceland, with just 320,000 people and an economy based on
fishing, aluminum production and tourism, might not be readily
transferable to bigger countries, its rebound suggests there’s
more than one way to recover from a financial meltdown.  Nothing distinguishes Iceland as much as its aid to
 consumers . To homeowners with negative equity, the country
offered write-offs that would wipe out debt above 110 percent of
the property value. The government also provided means-tested
subsidies to reduce mortgage-interest expenses: Those with lower
earnings, less home equity and children were granted the most
generous support.  Debt Relief  In June 2010, the nation’s  Supreme Court  gave debtors
another break: Bank loans that were indexed to foreign
currencies were declared illegal. Because the Icelandic krona
plunged 80 percent during the crisis, the cost of repaying
foreign debt more than doubled. The ruling let consumers repay
the banks as if the loans were in krona.  These policies helped consumers erase debt equal to 13
percent of Iceland’s $14 billion economy. Now, consumers have
money to spend on other things. It is no accident that the IMF,
which granted Iceland loans without imposing its usual austerity
strictures, says the recovery is driven by domestic demand.  In addition to easing  consumer debt , Iceland reduced
 government spending  and increased revenue by raising taxes and
cutting deductions that mainly benefited the well-off, a path
the U.S. might profitably emulate. In fact, relief for
overburdened U.S. consumers is a cause promoted by former U.S.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  in a new
book published this week. Bair  would  have done more to aid
sinking homeowners and done less for banks, but she says her
efforts were blocked by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and
others.  It worked in Iceland. A deficit that reached 13.5 percent
of gross domestic product in 2009 fell to 2.3 percent last year.
The IMF predicts Iceland will have a primary surplus (excluding
interest on debt) of 1.5 percent this year.  As for the banking industry, Iceland never had an option to
adopt the too-big-to-fail policy that led governments in the
U.S. and Europe to prop up their banks. Assets held by Iceland’s
three largest lenders had swelled to nine times the size of the
economy. After they defaulted on $85 billion in debt, the
government seized control of them.  Initial plans to repay foreign creditors, mostly U.K. and
Dutch depositors, collapsed in 2009 as street protests led to
the demise of the government. Repayment of obligations to
overseas creditors was either postponed or written off, leaving
the reconstituted banks with much smaller domestic operations.
Twice, Icelanders rejected national referendums on repaying
foreign depositors, who are pressing their claims in European
courts.  Holding Accountable  A new government led by Johanna Sigurdardottir embarked on
a campaign to hold accountable the so-called neo-Viking bankers
at the center of  Iceland ’s crisis. Instead of picking a
prosecutor from law firms in Reykjavik, which had depended on
the banks for business, the government drafted an investigator
from a remote village. Although a number of bankers fled the
country to avoid prosecution, the former  chiefs  of two of the
three biggest banks have been indicted and are standing trial.  Undoing the damage caused by the crisis is a work in
progress; not every Icelandic innovation would be feasible in
the U.S. or Europe. Iceland’s debt stands at almost 100 percent
of GDP. Many of the country’s professionals have  left  for Norway
and  Denmark  amid a dearth of jobs. Iceland still must figure out
how to ease constraints that barred investors from withdrawing
as much as $8 billion from the country and transferring it
overseas. Inflation remains stubbornly high. To counter that,
and to prevent capital flight, Iceland’s central bank has
increased  interest rates  five times in the past year. But
raising interest rates makes credit more expensive, checking
growth.  Iceland’s central bank on Sept. 18 released a report
suggesting the country go slow with plans to enter the European
Union, a process started in 2010 when the euro seemed sounder
than the krona. Becoming a member won’t be easy: If the issue
were put to a referendum, Icelanders would probably reject
admission. And why would Iceland want to join now? Euro-member
nations such as  Greece and Ireland offer testimony to the risks
of being yoked to a currency along with stronger economies.  Devaluation of the kind Iceland suffered is never fun.
Reneging on debts leaves a legacy of violated trust. But it
still looks better than recession with no obvious way out.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Barack Obama’s mixed success
at the UN ;  Margaret Carlson  on how Republicans  learned to love
Todd Akin ; Clive Crook on  India’s reform push ; Jonathan Mahler
on the  NFL’s enigmatic game plan for its referees ;  Peter Orszag 
on how  a longer school day benefits Chicago students ; Cass R.
Sunstein on  what Sixto Rodriguez can teach markets and
politicians ;  Jeff Rubin  on the  environmental consequences  of the
Keystone XL pipeline.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 