-- Italy Sells Bills at Lowest Rate Since March on ECB Plan
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-09-26T11:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/italy-sells-bills-at-lowest-rate-since-march-on-ecb-pledge.html
Italy  sold six-month bills at the
lowest rate since March as the  European Central Bank ’s pledge to
buy debt of distressed euro-region countries led to a plunge in
borrowing costs.  The Treasury in  Rome  sold 9 billion euros ($11.6 billion)
of 181-day bills at 1.503  percent , down from 1.585 percent at
the last auction of similar-maturity debt on Aug. 29. That was
the lowest rate since March 28, when Italy paid 1.119 percent to
sell six-month debt. Investors bid for 1.39 times the amount of
bills offered today, down from 1.69 times last month.  Italian 10-year bond yields have dropped more than 100
basis points since ECB President  Mario Draghi  first signaled on
Aug. 2 that the central bank was willing to buy bonds of euro-
region countries to bring down borrowing costs. Draghi’s new
bond-buying program will work in tandem with debt-purchases by
the European Union’s bailout funds and impose conditions on any
government making a request.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who championed the idea
of the rescue funds buying bonds, has shied away from a request,
partly on concern about the conditions.  Italian and Spanish bonds both declined today, with the
yield on Italy’s 10-year bond up seven basis points to 5.17
percent at 1:11 p.m. in Rome. The difference with comparable-
maturity German bunds was 365 basis points.  Biggest Risk  “The biggest risk to Italy right now is the deepening
political and economic crisis in  Spain ,” Nicholas Spiro,
managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London , said in
an e-mailed note after the auction. With Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  in “no hurry” to request ECB-backed aid, “the
main worry in Rome is the longer Spain dithers, the greater the
scope for investor nervousness to spread to Italy.”  Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose 26 basis points to 6.01
percent today, the biggest increase since Aug. 31, after
 Germany , the Netherlands and  Finland  said the region’s bailout
fund, the European Stability Mechanism, should assume only a
limited burden in bank recapitalizations. That may rule out the
ESM from being used to deal with the 100 billion euros in aid
Spain sought for its banks in June.  Rajoy has said he would consider making an aid request to
bring down borrowing costs, though a final decision would depend
partly on what kind of conditions are attached to the support.
Spain requesting a bond-buying program could help lower  interest
rates  in the euro area and show that the ECB can defend
transmission of its monetary policy, Bank of Italy Director
General Fabrizio Saccomanni said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Rome on Sept. 24.  Structural Rates  “Application of this new facility by Spain would sort of
show to markets that the European Union now has the instruments
to deal with this systemic problem regarding the transmission of
monetary policy that could have a beneficiary effect on all the
structural market interest rates,” Saccomanni said.  The Italian Treasury has met more than 75 percent of its
funding needs for 2012 and may auction a new 15-year benchmark
bond early next year, debt agency head Maria Cannata told  Il
Messaggero  in an interview yesterday. Italy probably won’t need
to request euro-area support to bring down its yields, she said.  “There is still the possibility of more turbulence and I’m
not saying that everything is over, but the market is capable of
distinguishing,” Cannata told the daily.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  