-- Mitt Romney Is Toast Without an October Surprise
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-09-26T22:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/mitt-romney-is-toast-without-an-october-surprise.html
With the presidential election less
than six weeks away, and  Mitt Romney  trailing President  Barack Obama  in the swing states needed to secure 270  electoral votes ,
the Republican nominee’s best hope is an “October surprise.”  The term, which describes an event with the potential to
determine the outcome of an election, was popularized during the
1980 presidential race.  Ronald Reagan ’s campaign was worried
President  Jimmy Carter  would orchestrate a last-minute release
of the 52 U.S. hostages held in Iran and win re-election. The
conspiracy theorists turned things upside down, accusing Reagan
of secretly negotiating with Iran to delay the hostages’ release
until after the election.  According to language guru William Safire, William J. Casey
 coined the term  in 1968, when  Richard Nixon  was running for
president. Casey, who went on to become Reagan’s Central
Intelligence Agency director, was a Nixon aide. Safire was a
speechwriter for Nixon. Casey was afraid President  Lyndon Johnson  would engineer a Vietnam peace initiative and help his
vice president, Hubert Humphrey, win the election.  Whatever the source, Romney could use an October surprise
to boost his flailing campaign. And I’m not talking 47 percent.
 New York  Times columnist David Brooks offered a good diagnosis
of what ails Romney on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sept. 23:  “He is a kind, decent man who says stupid things because
he’s pretending to be something he’s not, some sort of
cartoonish government-hater,” Brooks said.  Instead, Romney should emphasize his problem-solving
nature. “He’s a PowerPoint guy,” Brooks said, “a non-
ideological person running in an extremely ideological age.”  Short of allowing Mitt to be Mitt, the Romney campaign
needs an October surprise. Since surprises are, by definition,
unknowable, we can only speculate on what a few of them might
be.  The Debates   Obama has a notoriously thin skin. He bristles when
challenged. He can be patronizing (“You’re likeable enough,
Hillary”). He’s narcissistic to a fault. He gives a lot of one-
on-one interviews, which he can control, and holds few press
conferences, which he can’t. He points fingers at everyone else.
Former President  George W. Bush  is so bruised after almost four
years of Obama, he doesn’t dare be seen in public!  Without his ubiquitous teleprompter, there is always a
chance, albeit a slim one, that Obama will get ruffled by
something his opponent says in the three debates next month.
Obama aides are already  lowering expectations  for their boss,
claiming the slew of Republican primary debates gives Romney an
advantage.  Unscripted, the you-didn’t-build-that Obama is much
likelier to reveal his true self. Brooks implied that the real
Romney is more electable than the faux version. Would the public
say the same thing about the real Obama?  As the World Burns  Muslim rage in the  Middle East , North Africa and Asia.
Death and destruction at U.S. embassies. Chaos, even collapse,
in the euro zone (although probably not in the next six weeks).
An Israeli attack on Iran’s nuclear facilities.  Anything is possible. With the Arab world in flames and
Obama’s foreign policy in tatters, Romney has an opening to
articulate what his administration would do in similar
circumstances.  This would be a good time to tell us how he sees the role
of the U.S. in the world, even introduce the Romney Doctrine.
When  U.S. foreign policy  for decades has been to indulge
friendly dictators until they become uncooperative -- see  Saddam Hussein ,  Hosni Mubarak , Muammar Qaddafi -- it shouldn’t be too
hard to offer something better to voters.  Scandal, Cover-Up  There is always the possibility that a White House scandal
and cover-up could tip the election to Romney. Of course, any
such scandal would have to: engage the media’s attention for
longer than one day; warrant better placement than the bottom of
Page 18 in the daily paper; and have significant repercussions
in which senior Obama administration officials are implicated.  What about the intelligence leaks surrounding the U.S.-
Israeli cyberattacks on Iran’s main nuclear facilities? The
Obama administration has denied leaking the information,
contradicting the sourcing in David Sanger’s book, “Confront
and Conceal,”  excerpts  of which were published in the New York
Times.  Sanger attributes the detailed information on the  Stuxnet
and Flame viruses  to “members of the president’s national
security team who were in the room,” in addition to outside
experts.  If U.S. intelligence agents were compromised or killed as a
result of the leaks, the public would be outraged. And Obama
would be hard-pressed to find a  dumb video  to blame it on.  Obama’s reaction and response to events could provide an
opportunity for Romney to show his stuff. I tend to agree with
Brooks. Romney’s life has been characterized by success at work
and charity at home. Americans should want someone like him in
the White House.  I also agree with columnist  George Will , who put it best on
the Sept. 9 edition of ABC’s “This Week.” Discussing the
latest grim news on the  labor market , Will said: “If the
Republican Party cannot win in this environment, it has to get
out of politics and find another business.”  He is right. We have heard ad nauseum that no U.S.
president since  Franklin Roosevelt  has been re-elected with an
 unemployment rate  exceeding 7.4 percent. If the lousy economy
during Obama’s first term hasn’t made the election a slam-dunk
for Romney, it’s hard to see how even the most ghastly October
surprise will.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on bringing back  Build America
Bonds  and on judging  Georgia’s Saakashvili ;  Michael Kinsley  on
 Romney’s incompetence ;  Ezra Klein  on  undecided voters ;  Amity
Shlaes  on why pensions are fueling  U.S. class warfare ;  Jeff
Rubin  on whether  high oil prices  will save the planet;  Stephen
Smith  on how Republicans derail  Amtrak privatization .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  