-- Liverpool Opens League Cup Defense With Win as United Advances
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-09-26T23:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/liverpool-wins-in-league-cup-manchester-united-ousts-newcastle.html
Liverpool beat West Bromwich Albion
2-1 to open defense of its League Cup soccer title, while
 Manchester United  defeated Newcastle by the same score to earn a
visit to Chelsea in the fourth round.  Turkish midfielder Nuri Sahin scored twice as Liverpool
rallied for the victory at West Brom last night following
Gabriel Tamas’s third-minute opener. Sahin tied it 14 minutes
later and got the winner after 82 minutes at the Hawthorns.  The 24-year-old Sahin, who became the youngest player in
 Germany ’s Bundesliga when he appeared for  Borussia Dortmund  in
August 2005 at age 16, was making his third appearance for
Liverpool since arriving on a season-long loan from Real Madrid.  “It was an outstanding performance,” Liverpool manager
 Brendan Rodgers  told reporters. “It’s great to see the kids
playing with confidence.”  Rodgers used the match in  England ’s second-tier cup
competition to give game time to second string players such as
Sahin, with midfielder  Jordan Henderson  the only player in the
starting lineup from the team that began a 2-1 home defeat to
Manchester United on Sept. 23.  Jerome Sinclair became Liverpool’s youngest player, at 16
years and six days, when he entered the game as a substitute for
the last nine minutes.  Liverpool’s record eighth success in the tournament last
season couldn’t prevent manager  Kenny Dalglish  from being
replaced by Rodgers during the off-season. First-team coach
Steve Clarke also left the Reds to take charge at West Brom and
last month guided the Baggies to a 3-0 win over Liverpool on the
opening day of the Premier League season.  Swansea Next  Liverpool, which is winless through five league games this
season to lie 18th in the 20-team standings, will host Rodgers’s
former club Swansea in the last 16.  Anderson opened the scoring for four-time champion
Manchester United a minute before half time at Old Trafford and
Tom Cleverley made it 2-0 after 58 minutes to get his first
senior goal for the club. Substitute Papiss Cisse got
Newcastle’s goal four minutes later.  United striker  Wayne Rooney  returned after sustaining a
thing injury a month ago, while midfielder  Darren Fletcher  began
his first match in 10 months for the Red Devils as he continues
his comeback from a bowel condition.  “I feel good,” Rooney told reporters. “It’s always
difficult in your first game back after a few weeks but it’s
great to get the minutes under my belt.”  Arsenal Cruises  England winger  Theo Walcott  scored twice as Arsenal cruised
to a 6-1 home win against Coventry, which is second-to-last in
English soccer’s third tier. Olivier Giroud got his first goal
for the Gunners since joining in June from Montpellier, which he
helped secure a first French league title last season by scoring
21 goals to tie for the most in Ligue 1.  Tottenham won 3-0 at Carlisle and Norwich beat Doncaster
1-0 at home in other matchups between teams from the Premier
League and League Two.  Pavel Pogrebnyak scored in the 81st minute as Reading won
3-2 at Queens Park Rangers in a clash between the bottom two
clubs in the Premier League.  In the round of 16, Reading will host Arsenal, Tottenham
visits Norwich and Southampton travels to Leeds. Sunderland
hosts northeast rival Middlesbrough, Bradford travels to Wigan
and  Aston Villa  visits Swindon.  Matches will be played in the week of Oct. 29. The final is
scheduled Feb. 23 at Wembley stadium in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 