-- J&J, EU, Bavaria NV, Pork Board: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-26T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/j-j-eu-bavaria-nv-pork-board-intellectual-property.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  won its challenge
to two  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  patents on antibodies that help curb
the effects of the painful skin disease psoriasis.  A federal jury in Worcester,  Massachusetts , yesterday said
the patent claims were invalid. U.S. District Judge Dennis
Saylor had ruled in March that J&J’s Stelara drug infringed the
patents. Had the jury found in Abbott’s favor, the case would
have proceeded to determine how much J&J should pay.  The disputed patents -- 7,504,485 and 6,914,128 -- are for
human antibodies that control a substance called interleukin-12,
or IL-12, that regulates the immune system. Overproduction of
the substance triggers an overactive immune system response,
which in turn causes excess skin cells that pile up and form
painful and disfiguring plaques, according to the complaint.  “We believe our patents are valid and are evaluating our
options, including a possible appeal,” said Adelle Infante, a
spokeswoman for  Abbott Park , Illinois-based Abbott.  J&J, based in New Brunswick,  New Jersey , argued that Abbott
didn’t properly explain what it claimed to have invented, and
the inventions covered obvious variations of earlier know-how
that relied on standard research methods. J&J’s Janssen Biotech
unit said it was pleased that the jury agreed.  “We will continue to vigorously defend all  intellectual
property  for Stelara,” said Monica Neufang, a spokeswoman for
Janssen.  Abbott has been working on its own drug, known as
briakinumab, for severe psoriasis. In January 2011, the company
withdrew its application to get the drug approved in the U.S.
and  Europe , after regulators called for more analysis and
possible new studies.  The Stelara suit was filed in 2009, after J&J won a record
$1.67 billion patent-infringement verdict against Abbott over a
process used to make Abbott’s arthritis drug Humira. A U.S.
appeals court last year threw out the verdict -- the largest in
U.S. history -- after saying the J&J patents were invalid.  Abbott has another case pending against J&J over the
arthritis medicine Simponi, which generated $410 million last
year for J&J. That case is pending, also in Worcester.  The Stelara case is Abbott GmbH & Co. v. Centocor Ortho
Biotech Inc., 09cv11340 and the Simponi case is Abbott
Biotechnology Ltd. v. Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc., 09cv40089,
both U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Worcester).  Spain ,  Italy  Say EU ‘Misused’ Powers When Adopting Patent System  European Union  member states  abused their powers and
“circumvented” Spain and Italy to push ahead with creating the
bloc’s first common patent system, a court was told.  The Spanish and Italian governments’ “legitimate
concerns” about the system were ignored so the other member
states could approve the plans, lawyers for the two countries
said to a 13-judge panel of the EU’s highest court yesterday.  In March last year, 25 EU nations agreed to move forward
with a common patent system without Italy and Spain, under a
mechanism called enhanced cooperation whereby member states can
work together as long as at least nine agree. The two countries
had objected to the plan largely over language concerns. The EU
has 23 official languages and numerous compromises failed to
satisfy political demands or risked increasing translation costs
for companies.  Spain and Italy argued language isn’t the issue. Enhanced
cooperation “should not be used or misused to circumvent other
countries,” Nuria Diaz Abad, Spain’s lawyer, told the EU Court
of Justice in Luxembourg. It “was simply a way of bypassing
this obstacle,” Sergio Fiorentino, a lawyer for Italy, said.  The other countries chose to proceed without Spain and
Italy only when the language issue “had become an
insurmountable problem,” Fernando Florindo Gijon, a lawyer for
the European Council representing EU governments, said.  The cases are: C-274/11, Spain v. Council, C-295/11, Italy
v. Council.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Dutch Brewery Can Continue to Sell its Bavaria Beer in Italy  Bavaria NV, a 300-year-old Dutch brewery, has the right to
use the “Bavaria” name in Italy, the Italian Court of
Cassation ruled, the company said in a statement.  The court affirmed a lower-court ruling that the Dutch
company’s trademarks have priority over and don’t conflict with
the protected geographical indication “Bayerisches Bier.”  The lower court had determined that the brewer’s trademarks
registered between 1971 and 1995 for use in Italy were valid,
legitimate and could be used, even with the 2001 registration
for the geographical indication.  The Lieshout, Netherlands-based company said in its
statement that this victory in Italy follows similar outcomes in
Australia and Spain and a positive ruling from the Luxembourg-
based European Court of Justice.  Humane Society  Sues USDA Over ‘The Other White Meat’ Trademark  The marketing arm of the U.S. swine industry responded to a
trademark-infringement lawsuit the Humane Society of the  United
States  filed over the trademark “the other white meat.”  In a Sept. 24  statement , the National Pork Board said that
it bought the mark in 2006 from the National Pork Producers
Council. The mark was sold for $35 million and the sale was
approved by the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, with the board
paying $3 million a year against the balance.  Chris Novak, chief executive officer of the  National Pork
Board , said in the statement that the mark is “an incredibly
valuable asset, which is why the board in 2006 took steps to
assure it would always be owned by pork producers.” He said
that a 2000 survey conducted by  Northwestern University 
concluded that “the other white meat” was one of the five most
recognizable taglines in contemporary advertising  The board, which is funded by mandatory fees of 40 cents
for each $100 of pork sold or imported, promotes pork
production, consumption, education and environmental issues.  The  National Pork Producers Council , a Washington-based
advocacy group, said it is reviewing the complaint, which the
Humane Society filed in federal court in  Washington  on Sept. 24.  In a  statement,  the NPPC called the suit “the latest
bullying tactic” by the Humane Society to force the council to
“abandon its position on allowing farmers to choose production
practices that are best for the welfare of their animals.”  The council deemed the complaint “another desperate
attempt by the radical activist group to severely curtail animal
agriculture and take away consumer choices.”  In its complaint, the Humane Society says the purchase of
the trademark by the council violates provisions of the law that
enable the mandatory 40 cents pork-marketing checkoff. The
society argues that the purchase in essence transfers some of
the marketing money for advocacy purposes, which is barred under
the law.  The society asked the court to set aside the “unlawful
expenditure approvals” for the trademark, and to bar further
payments from the board to the NPPC. Additionally, the society
seeks awards of attorney fees and litigation costs. The USDA is
the defendant because it had to approve the use of the marketing
funds for the purchase of the trademark.  The case is Humane Society of the United States v. U.S.
Department of Agriculture Agricultural Marketing Service, 12-cv-
01405, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington)  BBQ Restaurant Seeks New Drink Name After ‘Painkiller’ Is Taken  A South Carolina barbecue restaurant is running a contest
for the best name for one of its cocktails after it learned a
name it used in the past is a registered trademark belonging to
someone else.  Fiery Ron’s Home Team BBQ LLC, of Charleston, South
Carolina, and Sullivan’s Island, South Carolina, is seeking a
new name for the frozen drink it used to call the
“Painkiller.”  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, “Painkiller” was registered in September 2003 by
 Pusser’s Rum Ltd.  of the British Virgin Islands.  Entries for a new name can be submitted through Oct. 12,
with the first prize a $25 gift certificate per week for a year,
 according to  the restaurant’s website.  Target Sued Over Moccasins With Beaded Thunderbird Design  Target Corp. (TGT) , the Minneapolis-based discount retail chain,
was sued for trademark infringement by a maker of moccasin
shoes.  Minnetonka Moccasin Co., also based in  Minneapolis , accused
Target of selling unauthorized knockoffs of its thunderbird
design moccasins, according to the complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in  Minnesota .  Minnetonka said it’s used the design -- with a beaded
thunderbird stitched to the toe of the shoe -- since the 1960s,
and that it is registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  The shoe company said Target began contacting it in
November 2011 with offers of “prime real estate on the floor”
of its stores to use in selling Minnetonka moccasins. Minnetonka
“promptly and politely passed on the sales opportunity,”
according to court papers.  In early 2012, Target began selling similar-looking
moccasins with a beaded thunderbird design, Minnetonka said. The
design is “confusingly similar” to Minnetonka’s own, the
company claimed, saying it’s harmed by the retail chain’s
actions.  It asked the court to bar further infringement and to order
a recall and destruction of all infringing products and
promotional material. Minnetonka also asked for awards of
Target’s profits derived from the alleged infringement, together
with money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Target didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the complaint.  The case is Minnetonka Moccasin Co. v. Target Corp., 12-cv-
02455, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Event-Management Company Barred From Sponsoring Live Performance  An Indian event-management company was ordered to quit
using content belonging to members of the Indian Performing
Rights Society,  India ’s Lawetalnews.com reported.  The company is barred from offering any live performances
of the lyrics or musical scores whose copyrights belong to
members of the society, according to Lawetalnews.com  AC Venture Communications India Private Ltd. was also
ordered to pay money damages to the society, the website
reported.  The ruling, by the Delhi high court, came in response to a
petition filed by the society in which it claimed the company
failed to get the proper license before offering live
performances of the copyrighted work, the website reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  