-- Japan Stock Futures Drop on Growth Concern, Spanish Riots
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-26T23:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/japan-stock-futures-drop-on-growth-concern-spanish-riots.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures fell as data from the U.S. to Italy added to concern
that global economic growth is waning and Spanish borrowing
costs soared amid violent protests against austerity measures.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a Japanese
camera maker that gets 80 percent of sales offshore, fell 0.3
percent. ADRs of BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining
company, lost 0.9 percent as metals prices declined. Shares of
 Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  may be active in Tokyo after Kyodo
reported a government-backed counter offer for the chipmaker may
be double an earlier bid by KKR & Co.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,865 in Chicago yesterday, down from 8,920
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,860 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index slid 0.4 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
retreated 0.1 percent in Wellington.  “Economic data is not improving,” said Mikio Kumada, a
Singapore-based global strategist for LGT Capital Management,
which oversees more than $20 billion. “A sudden economic
rebound would come close to a miracle and agreements on fiscal
policy will be much harder to achieve than the recent monetary
policy decisions.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.2
percent today. The U.S. gauge dropped 0.6 percent yesterday, for
its longest retreat since July, amid concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis is worsening and global growth is slowing.  The Bank of Spain said the Spanish economy contracted at a
“significant pace” in the third quarter. Reports showed new
U.S. home sales trailed the median economist estimate, French
 consumer confidence  dropped for a third month in September and
Italian retail sales declined in July.  Madrid Riot  The  London Metals Exchange Index (LMEX)  of industrial metals
declined 2 percent yesterday, its biggest retreat since July 20,
as violent protests in Spain and Greece heightened concerns that
Europe’s fiscal woes will cut demand for energy, metals and
grains, eclipsing optimism spurred by government stimulus.  Spanish protesters marched for a second night in Madrid
yesterday, calling on Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to reverse
austerity measures as his nine-month-old government prepared its
fifth package of budget cuts. Police in riot gear used
truncheons to beat protesters, who fought back throwing objects
and wielding sticks. Spain’s 10-year government bond yields
jumped as high as 6.07 percent.  Tear Gas  In Athens yesterday police fired tear gas in response to
fire-bombs thrown by demonstrators during a strike over wage
cuts and austerity measures that Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
said are vital to keep Greece in the  euro zone .  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index climbed 3.7 percent this
quarter as central banks in Europe, the U.S., Japan and China
took action to stimulate economic growth. The gauge has climbed
6.8 percent this year compared with a 14 percent gain on the  S&P
500 Index  and an 11 percent jump on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
The Asian benchmark traded at 12.7 times estimated earnings
compared with 13.9 for the S&P 500 and 12 for the Stoxx Europe
600.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. dropped for a third day, losing 0.6
percent to 90.22 yesterday in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  