-- Japan Bond Risk Nears Year-High as China Hongqiao Markets Debt
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-09-26T09:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/japan-bond-risk-nears-one-year-high-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Japanese corporate bond risk rose
to the highest in almost a year ahead of a survey expected to
show deteriorating confidence among manufacturers.  China
Hongqiao Group Ltd. (1378) ,  Malaysia ’s Sarawak state and  Industrial
Bank of Korea (024110)  are marketing dollar-denominated bonds.  An index of credit-default swaps on 50 Japanese companies
is on track for its highest close since Oct. 5, while bond risk
around the Asia-Pacific region surged, according to Markit Group
Ltd. and data provider CMA. The worsening in sentiment comes as
aluminum manufacturer China Hongqiao considers a sale of dollar
debt yielding in the high 11 percent area, a person familiar
with the matter said. Sarawak is offering 10-year notes and
South  Korea ’s IBK is marketing a three-year note, both at about
300 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, people
said.  Japan ’s biggest manufacturers probably grew less confident
about the economy this quarter as  China ’s slowdown and  Europe ’s
debt crisis sapped exports, according to economists  surveyed 
before the release of the Tankan report on Oct. 1. While U.S.
dollar bond sales in the Asia-Pacific region slowed to $3.5
billion since Sept. 24 from $5.1 billion in the same period of
last week, offerings this month are the most for any September
in at least a decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Bond risk in Japan has risen due to concerns around the
technology, commodity and manufacturing sectors,” said Krishna Hegde, Singapore-based head of  Asia  credit research at Barclays
Plc.“Corporates in the rest of Asia however are unlikely to be
affected and the pullback we have seen in new bond sales isn’t a
surprise given the large amount of issuance in previous weeks.”  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index rose 6 basis points to 228 as
of 17:08 p.m. in  Tokyo , on course for its highest close since
Oct. 5, according to Markit and CMA.  Outside of Japan, the region’s debt risk headed for its
highest in three weeks as Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said bond purchases recently announced
by the central bank probably won’t boost growth and may
jeopardize its credibility.  Doosan Infracore Co. priced $500 million of revolving 30-
year notes, which are callable from 2017, to yield 265 basis
points more than five-year Treasuries yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korea ’s biggest construction
equipment maker was the only Asian borrower to complete an
offering yesterday after issuers sold $3 billion of debt on
Sept. 24.  Order Book  Doosan received seven times more orders for the bonds than
what it sold, a person familiar with the matter said, asking not
to be identified because the details are private. Funds bought
59 percent of the securities while private banks took 27
percent, the person said.  If Doosan doesn’t call the bonds, the coupon will reset
from 2017 to 7.65 percentage points more than Treasuries, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The coupon increases by an
additional 2 percentage points from 2019, the data show.  The notes also have an investor put in the first five
years, which requires a special purpose vehicle backed by  Korea
Development Bank , Woori Bank Co. and Hana Bank to buy the bonds
from holders under certain conditions including if the company
doesn’t call the securities or enters bankruptcy, according to
an offering document. Coupons can be deferred and will
accumulate, the document states.  The Markit iTraxx Asia Series 18 index of credit-default
swaps on 40 investment-grade borrowers outside Japan rose 3.3
basis points to 144.4 as of 3:56 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to
CMA prices. The index is on track for its highest close since
Sept. 5, when the previous version of the gauge reached 148.7,
the prices show.  Australian Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Australia Series 18 index jumped 9 basis
points to 165 as of 5:56 p.m. in Sydney, according to Markit.
The measure is also on track for its highest close since Sept.
5, when Series 17 of the index reached 166.7, according to CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  New versions of the benchmarks are created every six months
when companies are added or dropped depending on their ratings,
the cost of protecting their debt and the ease of trading their
swaps. The maturity date of the Series 18 indexes, which started
trading Sept. 20, is December 2017, compared with June 2017 on
the Series 17 versions.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  