-- Japan’s Confidence Poised to Weaken in Warning for BOJ: Economy
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r ,   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-09-26T09:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/japan-s-confidence-poised-to-weaken-in-warning-for-boj-economy.html
Japan ’s biggest manufacturers
probably grew more pessimistic this quarter as  China ’s slowdown
and  Europe ’s crisis sapped exports, putting pressure on the
central bank to add to this month’s surprise monetary stimulus.  The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s Tankan report will show Oct. 1 that its
measure of  business confidence  deteriorated to -4, the fourth
straight quarter that pessimists outnumbered optimists,
according to the median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. That would mark the longest string of negative readings
since Japan emerged from the global recession in mid-2010.  The report may add to risks of the world’s third-largest
economy slipping into a contraction in the second half of the
year, offering little prospect of the BOJ quelling the nation’s
deflation. A separate release in two days may show consumer
prices slumped 0.3 percent in August from a year before,
compared with the BOJ’s target of 1 percent inflation.  “Companies are judging it’s not the time to invest because
of uncertainties over the global economy,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a
senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management in  Tokyo .
“The BOJ should expand its asset purchases this year because
they are far from their inflation target and will come under
increased pressure from the government to ease further.”  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his colleagues gather
twice to set policy next month, on Oct. 4-5 and Oct. 30. Last
week, they added 10 trillion yen ($129 billion) to their asset-
purchase plan, the main policy tool since the benchmark  interest
rates  was cut near zero.  ‘Bold Steps’  Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi  said  this week that “we
will take flexible and bold steps if we judge our policy is
insufficient to achieve our policy goal.” Board members will
release updated projections for the economy at the second of
next month’s meetings. Sumitomo’s Muto said the BOJ will
probably revise down its consumer-price forecasts.  The likely deterioration in manufacturers’ confidence this
quarter coincides with sustained strength in the nation’s
currency, which has eroded export competitiveness. The yen
traded at 77.65 per dollar at 6:10 p.m. in Tokyo, up 2 percent
since the BOJ added stimulus on Sept. 19. The currency is about
3 percent from the postwar high reached in October 2011. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average closed down 2 percent.  Shinzo Abe  The main opposition party’s selection of former premier
Shinzo Abe as its leader today may increase pressure on the
bank. Earlier this month Abe called for the BOJ to set a 3
percent inflation target, and he has said “drastic monetary
policy measures” are needed to beat deflation.  Sharp Corp. plans to cut more than 10,000 jobs, or about 18
percent of its workforce, as the Japanese TV maker tries to
return to profit, two people with knowledge of the proposal
said.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s biggest consumer electronics exporter,
yesterday had its  credit rating  lowered by  Standard & Poor’s  for
the second time this year because of concern over the company’s
earnings outlook. The Tokyo-based company cut its annual profit
forecast by 33 percent last month.  China’s slowdown is also hurting Japan,  Hitachi
Construction Machinery Co. (6305) , the world’s No. 3 maker of building
equipment, saying last month it would shut its Chinese plant for
two weeks a month until October as sales there slump. Japan’s
largest export customer has seen its economic growth slow for
six straight quarters.  Dropping Production  Japanese carmakers cut China production plans on concerns
about the economic fallout from a territorial dispute between
 Asia ’s two biggest economies.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the top Japanese
seller of vehicles in China, said today its output in the
country fell 8.9 percent in August, while  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
dropped 18 percent.  Japan also reports on  August inflation , industrial output,
retail sales and unemployment in two days. Consumer prices
excluding fresh food fell for a fourth straight month, a
Bloomberg survey of 26 economists shows. The projected 0.3
percent drop compares with the BOJ’s prediction of a 0.7 percent
increase over the year starting April 2013.  Sales at retailers are seen falling for the fifth time in
six months. Industrial production probably fell 0.5 percent on
month, the second straight decline, according to a separate
survey. Next week’s Tankan may show little respite for Japan’s
factories for the rest of the year, with the outlook for large
manufacturers in the December Tankan estimated to be -5.  Asia Slowing  Economies across Asia are showing the impact of a slowing
global rebound, with  Singapore  today reporting that industrial
output fell 2.2 percent on year in August, from 1.9 percent in
July.  New Zealand  reported that exports fell and imports rose in
August.  One bright spot emerging in the global economy is a
stabilization of the U.S. housing market. The Commerce
Department will probably report that new-home sales in August
rose to the highest rate since April 2010, according to a
survey.  In Europe, the Confederation of British Industry will
release an index of U.K. retail sales for September.  France ’s
 consumer confidence  probably slipped in September from the
previous month and German inflation may have moderated to 2.1
percent in September from a year earlier, Bloomberg surveys
showed.  Falling Growth  Japan’s central bank will have to cut its growth forecast
for the current fiscal year, and will have difficulty achieving
its 1 percent inflation target by the year ending in March 2015,
said  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at Citigroup Global
Markets Japan Inc. “It makes sense for the BOJ to expand its
asset-purchase program further at the Oct. 30 board meeting,”
probably by 5 trillion yen, he said.  Even with further stimulus, the BOJ may struggle to end
declines in prices, as the nation is in a ’deflation trap,’
according to  Nobuyasu Atago , a principal economist at the  Japan
Center for Economic Research  and a former central bank official.  “Even if the BOJ buys 80 trillion yen worth of Japanese
 government bonds , companies won’t raise their prices,” Atago
said in an interview last week. “It’s a vicious cycle, with
rising input prices and the cost of quality improvements paid
for by squeezing wages, which drives down consumption and makes
it harder to raise prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Mayger in Tokyo at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  