-- Jay-Z Concerts to Open Rusty $1 Billion Barclays Center
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-10-03T19:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/jay-z-concerts-to-open-rusty-1-billion-barclays-center.html
(Corrects information on using the arena for professional
ice hockey in the 12th paragraph for a story originally
published on Sept. 26.)  A huge frog has landed in  Brooklyn .  It’s the exceedingly strange $1 billion Barclays Center
opening on Sept. 28. Rapper Jay-Z leads off with eight sold-out
shows in the 19,000-seat concert hall.  The Brooklyn Nets, owned by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , have moved from  New Jersey  and will begin the season
in the 18,000-seat configuration for basketball with a game
against the  New York  Knicks on Nov. 1.  Designed by SHoP Architects PC of  Manhattan , the 675,000-
square-foot arena has dark bands of pre-rusted steel that
undulate sensuously and senselessly around the building,
alternating with reflective glass.  The armor-plate bands swirl into a stretched and twisted
donut 30 feet above the wedge-shaped entry plaza at the busy
intersection of Flatbush and Atlantic avenues. A 3,000-square-
foot LED sign runs around the inside of this oculus.  That much inspires gawking, as dozens of passersby were
doing recently. Yet except for the bravura entrance, the gloomy
exterior never comes into focus as the iconic presence it
strives to be.  The exterior curviness suggests you’ll be swept
theatrically to your seat. The reality is an awkwardly
proportioned, wedge-shaped, dark-gray lobby that introduces a
shadowy no-nonsense interior in shades of gray.  The lobby extends into a balcony inside the arena, 25 feet
above the floor. It’s the only aspect of the interior that
builds anticipation. You’ll be able to see the massive blinking
scoreboard from across the entry plaza.  Sports Specialist  The interior was designed by a separate architect, sports
specialist Ellerbe Becket, and looks it. (The firm has been
bought by the giant design and construction firm AECOM Inc.)
Bruce Ratner, the chairman and chief executive officer of
developer Forest City Ratner Cos., jettisoned his first
architect,  Frank Gehry , when the cost of his design threatened
to hit $1 billion in 2009, exactly when lenders were most wary.  AECOM cut an estimated $200 million out of the project, but
Ratner disavowed the lumpy, airport-hanger proposal, quickly
marrying SHoP to Ellerbe Becket. This sped the project into
construction in early 2010, and got it built in less than three
years -- which is fast given the challenges of building over a
working rail yard.  There was no time to do what Gehry had done, which was make
the movement and excitement of spectators visible to passersby.
In the end, the arena still cost $1 billion.  Terrazzo flooring, understated concession design and tiles
in the bathrooms exude a highbrow atmosphere compared with the
painted concrete block, cheesy player statues and hot TV colors
splashed across most arenas. There’s even an art program.  No Hockey  Designed to favor basketball, Barclays wraps faceted
seating tiers tightly around the court. The arena can
accommodate professional ice hockey but the seating
configuration wouldn’t be optimal, said Stephen J. Duethman, the
Kansas City-based managing principal of AECOM, on a walk-
through. With hockey, the seat count would be lower than that
“recommended” by the  National Hockey League , according to
Jolene Libretto, external-communications manager for AECOM.  The seating and aisles looked tight to me. Together with
steeply raked tiers, though, spectators are commendably close to
the action.  Barclays offers plenty of premium seating. Court-side
patrons get access to the sleek Calvin Klein Club, where they
can view players hustling into the arena through glass. Above
the best seats along the sides are 101 luxury suites stacked on
two levels. Loge seats near the lobby benefit from in-seat
service of the 40/40 Club & Restaurant.  Lost Opportunity  Brooklynites might consider themselves lucky. In Manhattan,
Madison Square Garden’s owners are renovating, spending nearly
$1 billion. Judging from results so far, it won’t be enough. The
Barclays Center is no Garden disaster, just an extraordinarily
expensive lost opportunity.  And it could be made worse. Barclays is the keystone of the
$4.9 billion Atlantic Yards project. Ratner has promised to
break ground in December on the first of three residential
buildings that will wrap the arena.  The building is a stiff composition of stacked boxes by
SHoP that makes me wistful for Gehry’s high-strung lyricism.
Ratner is starting to make good on a commitment to residential
affordability that was key to Atlantic Yards approval, so half
the units will be rented below market.  Sadly, the Barclays Center and Atlantic Yards has become an
object lesson in how form follows finance.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining,  Manuela
Hoelterhoff  on opera.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 