-- Jets to Use Running Back McKnight at Corner With Revis Injured
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-26T19:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/jets-to-use-running-back-mcknight-at-corner-with-revis-injured.html
New York Jets  running back Joe McKnight will have an increased role in the team’s defensive
secondary following All-Pro cornerback  Darrelle Revis ’s season-
ending knee injury.  McKnight, 24, worked this week with the cornerbacks both on
the practice field and in meetings, coach  Rex Ryan  said today at
a news conference. He will also remain involved in the National
Football League team’s offense when the Jets (2-1) host the San
Francisco 49ers (2-1) on Sept. 30 at MetLife Stadium in East
Rutherford, New Jersey.  “He’s got the speed, the size, the athleticism, the ball
skills, everything you look for in a corner,” Ryan said of the
5-foot-11, 205-pound McKnight. “It’s just going to take time.”  Ryan was not specific on how often McKnight would be used
on defense this weekend or in the weeks ahead.  Revis, 27, a four-time Pro Bowl selection who Ryan calls
the top defensive player in the league, tore the anterior
cruciate ligament in his left knee during New York’s 23-20
overtime victory against the  Miami Dolphins  last weekend. He
will miss the rest of the season.  “We have to move on, and we will,” Ryan said. “I like
our plan going into the game. We’ll do multiple things and
that’s how we’re going to approach it.”  Antonio Cromartie  will move to the No. 1 cornerback spot on
the depth chart in Revis’s absence, and third-year player Kyle Wilson will start opposite him, Ryan said.  McKnight played some cornerback in high school, but was
used exclusively on offense at the  University of Southern
California . He was selected by New York in the fourth round of
the 2010  NFL Draft  and rushed for a career-high 189 yards in his
first season.  Last year, McKnight appeared in three games, gaining 14
yards on three carries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  