-- Kenyan Phone Companies to Switch of Fake Handsets Oct. 1
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-09-26T12:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/kenyan-phone-companies-to-switch-of-fake-handsets-oct-1-1-.html
Kenya , east  Africa ’s biggest
economy, will switch off as many as 2.5 million counterfeit
mobile phones starting Oct. 1, the Communications Commission of
Kenya said today.  “We had an estimation of 2.5 million handsets as
counterfeit” two months ago, Director General Francis Wangusi
told reporters in the capital, Nairobi. “Since we began the
sensitization campaign, I would suppose the number has
decreased.”  The regulator is switching off counterfeit handsets to
boost security agencies’ ability to track users and because the
devices pose health risks since they are of lower quality, he
said. Any counterfeit phones bought after Oct. 1 will not be
activated by operators, he said.  There were 29.2 million mobile-phone users in Kenya as of
March 31, according to data from the  commission . Mobile
penetration increased to 74 percent in the three months through
March from 71 percent in the previous three months.  All four mobile-phone companies in the country,  Safaricom
Ltd., (SAFCOM)   Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  Telkom Kenya Ltd. and Essar
Telecom Kenya Ltd. have agreed to switch off counterfeit
handsets, their chief executive officers told reporters during a
joint briefing in Nairobi today.  Consumers Affected  “We should not expect to see much impact because most of
the counterfeit phones tend to be low end,” Brian Longwe, a
telecommunications analyst with Nairobi-based consultancy Pure
Innovations, said in a phone interview yesterday. “It is
unlikely there will be a major impact on revenue. It is the
consumers who will mostly be affected.”  Most of the affected users are likely to replace their
handsets with genuine ones within two days of being switched off
since mobile phones have multiple uses such as money transfers,
Wangusi said.  On average, Kenyan mobile-phone users make calls totalling
77.7 minutes and send 11.67  text messages  per month, according
to data from the industry regulator.  Safaricom , the biggest
operator, charges 3 shillings ($0.04) a minute for calls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  