-- Natural Gas Pipelines to Expand U.S. Supply Glut: Energy Markets
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-09-26T20:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/natural-gas-pipelines-to-expand-u-s-supply-glut-energy-markets.html
Natural gas pipelines coming into
service by year end may boost deliveries from the Marcellus
shale deposit in the U.S. Northeast by 30 percent, extending a
supply glut that helped send prices to decade lows.  As much as 2 billion cubic feet of gas a day are set to
flow from the lines in  Pennsylvania , Ohio and West  Virginia ,
bound for markets along the Eastern Seaboard, based on
government and pipeline-company projections. About 1,000
Marcellus shale wells sit uncompleted, mainly because of a lack
of pipeline infrastructure, according to the Energy Department.  Gas prices  have dropped 60 percent since 2007 as producers
used techniques such as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to
reach supplies trapped deep in tight layers of shale. Gas
futures tumbled to $1.902 per million British thermal units in
April, the lowest price since 2002, as stockpiles ballooned
during a mild winter and record U.S. production.  “There are new pipelines coming up and more Marcellus gas
is going to flood storage going into winter,”  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago, said in
a phone interview. “Unless you get a really cold winter, prices
are going to be in the $2 range.”  Natural gas for October delivery rose 9.9 cents, or 3.4
percent, to settle at $3.023 per million British thermal units
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have gained 1.1
percent this year.  The futures have averaged $2.679 since the April low after
rising as high as $3.277. Prices may average $3.20 per million
Btu during the first quarter of 2013, when demand peaks, based
on the median of 18 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Winter Demand  “Higher prices are all predicated on more normal space
heating” this winter and demand from power generators burning
gas instead of coal, Teri Viswanath, director of commodities
strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  New York , said in a Sept. 21
interview. Viswanath expects first-quarter prices to average
$3.60 per million Btu.  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp., which pumps gas from Marcellus
deposits in Pennsylvania, has a break-even point that’s
“probably below $2,” Chief Financial Officer Scott Schroeder
said in a Sept. 14 interview from Houston.  About 4,525 miles of interstate gas pipelines serving
consumers from  Maine  to Virginia have been put into service
since 1996, Energy Department data show. About 693 miles of
lines in the Marcellus, with a daily capacity of 8.06 billion
cubic feet, are planned, under construction or already in
service, according to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission data
going back to 2006.  Fall Completions  New pipelines can quickly add 1 billion cubic feet a day of
Marcellus gas to the market and as much as 2 billion, as
projects with 3.5 billion cubic feet of additional pipeline
capacity will be completed from September through December,
Viswanath said. Marcellus gas output in May averaged 6.85
billion cubic feet a day, according to the most recent Energy
Department data.  Shale gas has been key to the country’s move toward energy
independence. Production gains helped the U.S. meet 81 percent
of its energy demand in 2011, the highest level since 1992,
according to U.S. Energy Department data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stockpiles in the week ended Sept. 14 totaled 3.496 billion
cubic feet, 8.6 percent above the five-year average, the Energy
Department said on Sept. 20. Supplies of gas may rise to a
record 3.95 trillion by the end of October, before demand begins
to rise with colder weather, according to department estimates.  Mid-Atlantic Lines  Spectra Energy Corp.’s (SE)   Texas  Eastern Transmission pipeline
has a project that will go into service in November to carry
200,000 dekatherms (200 million cubic feet) a day from  West
Virginia  to eastern Pennsylvania to connect to mid-Atlantic
points, Brian McKerlie, vice president of business development
at Spectra in Houston, said in a Sept. 19 interview.  Spectra is also building a pipeline to ship Marcellus gas
to  Manhattan  by next November and is seeking customers to build
a line to  Florida , according to the company.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , based in Calgary, is reversing its
Niagara pipeline to start moving Marcellus gas from West
Virginia into southern Ontario in November, Karl Johannson,
executive vice president of natural gas pipelines with
TransCanada, said in a Sept. 19 interview.  “It’s a very large resource and it’s going to change the
flow of gas in North America,” Johannson said.  Williams Cos. projected that more than half of its
estimated $11.5 billion of capital investments from 2012 through
2014 is in the Marcellus region, according to a Sept. 5
presentation by the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based company.  Rising Production  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) ’s Tennessee Gas Pipeline
and a unit of Dominion Resources Inc. also have Marcellus
projects under construction.  Marcellus will account for 22 percent of the 79 billion
cubic feet a day of U.S. gas output in 2016, or about 17.4
billion a day, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates.
The region accounted for 5 percent of output last year and none
in 2006, the bank’s data show.  Barclays Plc estimates that additional pipeline capacity
may boost daily U.S. supplies by 1.8 billion cubic feet by the
end of this year and by another 3.4 billion in 2013, the
majority of it from Marcellus.  “We will be watching for evidence of a large uptick in
production” in November, March and November 2013, Shiyang Wang,
a Barclays analyst in New York, said in an Aug. 28 report.  Winter Demand  Laurent Key, a natural gas analyst with  Societe Generale  in
New York, predicts that 900 million cubic feet a day of
Marcellus production will come online in the fourth quarter,
according to a Sept. 10 note to clients. Key’s first quarter
price forecast is $3.07.  Demand for the fuel used by  power plants  and in home
heating peaks in January and February, though last winter’s
mildest weather since 2000 has helped keep inventory levels at
 seasonal records .  The movement of drilling rigs to the Eagle Ford shale in
Texas from Haynesville in  Louisiana  will slow U.S. natural-gas
output growth,  David Greely , head of energy research at Goldman
Sachs in New York, said in a Sept. 24 research report.  The additional capacity in Pennsylvania will cut pipeline
costs,  Richard Hunter , vice president of  investor relations  with
Carrizo Oil & Gas Inc. in Houston, said in an Aug. 28 interview.
Charges in Pennsylvania, where the company has wells, rose as
high as $1.40 per thousand cubic feet recently, about double the
rate before it started to run up in mid-2012, Hunter said.  “Starting in November of this year to December, that price
is going to fall dramatically on new pipeline capacity,” to 50
or 75 cents per thousand cubic feet, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 Nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  