-- Netanyahu to Tell UN Iran Is ‘Most Dangerous’ Country
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-09-27T14:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/netanyahu-to-tell-un-iran-is-most-dangerous-country.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  returns to the United Nations today in an attempt to
rein in  Iran’s nuclear program , a year after visiting the body
to turn back a bid for Palestinian statehood.  Before leaving for New York, Netanyahu told reporters that
he will warn the UN General Assembly that  Iran  must not be
allowed to arm itself with atomic weapons. If the international
community fails to heed the message, the Israeli leader said his
country is ready to utilize all options against Iran. “This is
a people that has overcome every obstacle in the past, and every
tyrant, and that is what will happen this time as well,” he
said.  Netanyahu will step onto the dais a day after Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  stood there and cited what he
termed the “continued threat by the uncivilized Zionists to
resort to a military action against our great nation.” In
response, Netanyahu issued a statement decrying the fact that
“a platform was given to a dictatorial regime that strives, at
every opportunity, to sentence us to death.”  Netanyahu’s New York visit follows weeks of disagreement
with President  Barack Obama ’s administration over Iran. Warning
that the Islamic Republic is possibly just months away from
developing nuclear weapons capability, Netanyahu has asked the
U.S. to set explicit “red lines” that would justify military
action, a step that U.S. officials have refused to do.  ‘Red Lines’  Netanyahu plans to outline “red lines” for the Iranian
program that won’t conflict with U.S. positions, said an Israeli
official, speaking on condition of anonymity because the speech
hasn’t yet been released. Netanyahu believes Israel and the U.S.
can work together to stop Iran’s nuclear program, the official
said.  U.S. officials have said they believe Iran’s Supreme
Leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , hasn’t made a decision to
develop an atomic bomb. Obama, in his UN address Sept. 25, said
the U.S. would do whatever it takes to keep Iran from acquiring
nuclear weapons and warned that time for a diplomatic resolution
“is not unlimited.”  The debate over Iran has spilled over into the U.S.
elections, with Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  accusing Obama
of throwing “Israel under the bus” and criticizing the
president for not meeting with Netanyahu during his three-day
visit to the U.S. The White House said the meeting isn’t taking
place because of scheduling issues with the election so close,
and Netanyahu will meet instead with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  Public Differences  “Netanyahu erred in making public his differences with the
U.S. over Iran, and Obama made a mistake in not finding time to
meet with him,” said Eytan Gilboa, professor of political
science at Bar Ilan University outside Tel Aviv, who specializes
in U.S.-Israeli relations. “Policy on Iran should have been set
by Israel and the U.S. in secret discussions and not public
skirmishes.”  The U.S. is “not setting deadlines” for Iran and still
considers negotiations as “by far the best approach” to the
Islamic Republic, Clinton said in an interview with  Bloomberg
Radio  on Sept. 9. Netanyahu responded two days later that
“those in the international community who refuse to put a red
line before Iran don’t have the moral right to place a red light
before Israel” to forestall military action.  Bridge the Gap  Trying to bridge that gap will probably be the main focus
of Netanyahu’s meeting with Clinton, according to  Zalman Shoval ,
a former Israeli ambassador to the U.S.  “Between the Israeli position that a ‘red line’ is needed,
and the way Secretary Clinton put it, there’s still some scope
for common ground,” said Shoval, who advises Netanyahu on
international affairs. “The most important point is that Israel
and America’s interests coincide despite the differences in
emphasis.”  Israel’s deputy foreign minister, Danny Ayalon, said Iran’s
refusal to stop its nuclear program is helping the U.S. and
Israel move toward resolving their differences.  “As long as the Iranians continue to drive the whole world
crazy we will move closer and closer until we totally agree,”
Ayalon said on Israel Radio.  Iran, which says its nuclear facilities are for peaceful
civilian purposes, has vowed to retaliate if attacked.  ‘Greatly Fear’  Iran’s uranium enrichment activities are under
international monitoring to prevent diversion to weapons use.
The  International Atomic Energy Agency  said it has seen no
diversion. Still, the agency reiterated last month that it “is
unable to provide credible assurance about the absence of
undeclared nuclear material and activities in Iran, and
therefore to conclude that all nuclear material in Iran is in
peaceful activities.”  Half of Israelis either “fear” or “greatly fear” for
the Jewish state’s existence if war breaks out with Iran, the
daily Haaretz reported, citing a survey conducted in conjunction
with the Dialog polling institute. The majority of those asked
said the chance of war with Iran in the coming year is “high”
or “medium.”  Haaretz didn’t report a margin of error or the number of
people polled. It said full survey results will be published
tomorrow.  Economic Sanctions  Talks between Iran and the IAEA, and negotiations with the
so-called P5+1 nations -- the U.S., Russia, China, France, the
U.K. and Germany -- haven’t found a formula to slow the Islamic
Republic’s uranium enrichment program. Nor have economic
sanctions imposed against Iran by the U.S. and the European
Union forced concessions from the Tehran government.  The focus on Iran has drawn attention away from the
Palestinian issue, which dominated Netanyahu’s appearance at the
General Assembly a year ago. Israel and the U.S. successfully
lobbied against an attempt by  Palestinian Authority  President
 Mahmoud Abbas  to gain full UN membership as an independent state
from the  Security Council .  The Palestinians are aiming lower this year, seeking
recognition as a non-member state from the General Assembly,
which would elevate their current observer status and gain them
some diplomatic leverage.  “This will give Palestine access to all international
bodies,” Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erakat said on Sept.
20.  Palestinian ‘Shortcut’  The Palestinians are “trying to make a shortcut to
statehood that could short-circuit the  peace process ,” Israeli
Foreign Ministry spokesman Ilana Stein said in a phone
interview. She said that, unlike last year’s Security Council
vote, “there is usually a majority in the General Assembly for
perceived anti-Israel motions.”  The Palestinian diplomatic push has gained added urgency in
recent weeks as deteriorating economic conditions in the  West
Bank  have spurred unprecedented social welfare protests.
Palestinians say the situation there and in the  Gaza Strip  is
increasingly untenable.  “The Palestinians always have the capability to push
themselves back on the  front page , and it’s not with diplomatic
action in New York,” said  Mark Heller , senior research fellow
at Tel Aviv University’s Institute for National Security
Studies. “The protests against the Palestinian Authority could
easily turn against Israel.”  Israel’s currency has been hurt by the increasingly tense
stand-off with Iran, analysts say, with the shekel weakening
about 5 percent over the past 12 months.  “Geopolitical concern, including over a possible Iran
conflict, has been a key factor supporting a weaker shekel,”
said  Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-based economist for HSBC
Holdings Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David aboard Netanyahu’s flight to U.S. at
   cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  