-- Nissan Leads Japan Auto Shares Lower as China Concerns Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-26T03:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/nissan-leads-japan-auto-shares-lower-as-china-concerns-escalate.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the top Japanese
seller of vehicles in China, led automakers lower in Tokyo
trading on mounting concerns about the economic fallout from a
territorial dispute between  Asia ’s two biggest economies.  The maker of the Altima sedan fell as much as 3.2 percent
to 660 yen in Tokyo trading, while  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  declined
as much as 2.7 percent.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , the nation’s third-
largest carmaker, dropped as much as 5 percent.  Nissan said today it’s halting Chinese production three
days ahead of schedule to reflect current demand, while Toyota
said that it’s adjusting output in the country. The carmakers,
who reeled from natural disasters in Japan and  Thailand  last
year, may face an even bigger financial toll from the anti-
Japanese protests in the world’s biggest automobile market,
according to  China ’s Passenger Car Association.  “In previous years, they often added shifts around this
time to meet rising demand during hot sales season in September
and October,” said Han Weiqi, a Shanghai-based analyst with CSC
International Holdings Ltd. “Japanese automakers will see their
market share being taken away by American and European
automakers, as consumers who need to buy cars will simply turn
away and buy other brands.”  Nissan will suspend production in China from Sept. 27 and
resume output on Oct. 8 in view of the “current market
situation,” Chris Keeffe, a company spokesman, said by
telephone today. The company makes cars in the country with
Dongfeng Motor Corp.  China Production  Toyota will adjust production in China to meet demand, said
spokesman Joichi Tachikawa. The Asahi newspaper earlier reported
the automaker plans to produce no cars in the country in
October.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  is suspending output at its venture two
days earlier than usual for China’s national holidays next month
as the plants prepare for production of the CX-5 model next
year, according to Michiko Terashima, a company spokeswoman. The
automaker is still assessing the impact of the anti-Japan
strife, Terashima said.  Honda President Takanobu Ito said Sept. 21 that while the
company’s plans to strengthen its China business remains
unchanged, the automaker hasn’t fully recovered from the earlier
suspension due to parts procurement and safety concerns.  Sales Decline  Sales of Japanese-branded passenger cars fell last month in
China, compared with gains of more than 10 percent for German
automakers including  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW) , after tensions flared over a long-standing territorial
dispute involving a group of islands known as Diaoyu in China
and Senkaku in Japan. American brands sold by  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  also rose last month.  The impact on Japanese car sales will extend into next
month as escalating tensions deter consumers, said  Akio Toyoda ,
president of Toyota and chairman of Japan’s auto association, on
Sept. 20.  “If the Chinese, Koreans and maybe the Taiwanese are not
willing to buy Japanese cars, the sales of Japanese automakers
will suffer, and so will their share prices,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , President of Fukoku Capital Management. “You can’t
leave the Chinese market but you may try to move the  production
line  out of China for the time being. It depends on how they are
going to cover their risks.”  Financial Toll  Many dealerships in China that sell Japanese cars shut
after some showrooms were attacked and vandalized this month,
according to Luo Lei, deputy secretary general of the state-
backed China Automobile Dealers Association. The sales declines
will likely hurt the Japanese manufacturers more than last
year’s earthquake and tsunami, which closed factories across
 Japan , Luo said.  The Shanghai-based Passenger Car Association predicts
Japanese brands will lose their lead over German nameplates in
the country for the first time since 2005.  Some dealerships selling competing brands have introduced
marketing campaigns to attract buyers shunning Japanese cars.  A Buick showroom in eastern Zhejiang province is offering
cash rebates and gift bags to buyers who trade in their Japanese
cars, according to Chen Linling, a saleswoman at the dealership.  “Business has been quite good and we’ve been busy since we
started the promotion,” Chen said by telephone. “We rolled out
this marketing move after the Diaoyu protests in China.”  Patriot SUV  Hawtai Motor Group Co., the Beijing-based carmaker whose
sport utility vehicle is outsold more than 50-to-1 by Honda’s
CR-V, urged Chinese consumers to buy local brands as it
introduces this week a “Patriot” edition of its Boliger SUV
featuring a paint job with a stylized China national flag.  “As a Chinese, purchasing China’s homegrown auto brands is
the most efficient and direct way to support our country’s
national economy,” Hawtai said in the statement. Consumers
should drive the Boliger Patriot and “fill the streets with the
songs of patriotism praising our mighty nation.”  Some dealers have taken extreme measures to capitalize on
anti-Japan sentiment. Volkswagen’s Audi said earlier this month
it asked a Chinese dealer to remove a banner advocating the
murder of Japanese people after a photograph of the sign went
viral on the Internet.  China’s homegrown automakers have lost a quarter of their
market share in the past two years, according to China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers data. Toyota, Nissan and
Honda, Japan’s three largest automakers, accounted for four of
the 10 best-selling SUV models in the first eight months of this
year, the data show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  