-- Nomura Said to Cut Up to 30 Jobs in Americas Equities
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-09-27T02:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/nomura-said-to-cut-up-to-30-jobs-in-americas-equities.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s
biggest brokerage, is planning to cut as many as 30 jobs in part
of its Americas equities division this week amid a global
reorganization, according to people briefed on the plan.  The reductions will occur as early as today in execution
services, which Tokyo-based Nomura is folding into its
independent Instinet unit, said the people, who requested
anonymity because the cuts haven’t been announced.  Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai, 53, is targeting
profitability for overseas operations by June 2014 as he cuts $1
billion of costs worldwide. Nomura said this month it’s
reorganizing the equities division into three segments, with
execution services, including cash, programs and electronic
products outside of  Japan  to be wrapped into Instinet, the
brokerage it acquired in 2006.  “On the one hand they want to reduce costs and on the
other they also want to move to the Instinet system from a
trading perspective,” said Mac Salman, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Jefferies Group Inc. “That gives them the opportunity to cut
costs on the execution side.”  Nagai, who took over from Kenichi Watanabe as CEO on Aug. 1,
is overhauling the Japanese bank after expenses swelled
following its 2008 purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Co.
operations in  Europe  and  Asia . The company has posted pretax
losses abroad for the past nine quarters.  New Model  “We are currently in the process of reducing costs in the
Americas in order to transition the equities business to the new
operating model” disclosed this month, said Jonathan Hodgkinson,
a New York-based spokesman for Nomura. He said he couldn’t
comment on the number of jobs to be cut in execution services.  Nomura named Samir Patel and Michael Rietbrock co-heads of
Americas equities this month to replace Ciaran O’Kelly as the
firm recalibrates its overseas operations.  The company said this month that it will reduce costs by
$210 million in the Americas, $450 million in Europe and the
 Middle East  and $340 million in Asia including Japan, with about
45 percent of the cuts worldwide coming from trimming staff.  Shares of Nomura rose 0.4 percent to 281 yen at 11:12 a.m.
in  Tokyo . They have gained 8.9 percent since Nomura unveiled the
expense-reduction plans on Aug. 31.  “Equity markets are being dramatically reshaped globally”
by economic forces and demands for agency-driven execution,
Benoit Savoret, the firm’s global co-head of equities, said in a
Sept. 6  statement . The firm’s changes “uniquely position Nomura
in this new market environment.”  Restructuring Costs  Nagai said in an interview this month that it will take
time to make a profit abroad as the company will first have to
implement the cost savings program by March 2014. Eliminating
jobs “will generate restructuring costs after that,” he said.  Nomura is eliminating about 100  investment banking  jobs in
Europe as part of a 30 percent reduction in its workforce in the
region, three people with knowledge of the plans said last week.  In Asia, the bank is reorganizing its global finance team
into two main streams, an internal memo confirmed by Nomura
showed this week. Global finance units within the investment
banking and fixed-income divisions will reconfigure into debt
origination including debt capital markets, private placements,
leveraged finance and private financing activities; and risk
solutions, according to the memo obtained by Bloomberg.  Mark Leahy, the head of debt syndicate and debt origination
for Asia excluding Japan, said this week that he is leaving as
part of the revamp.  Daiwa Cuts  Nomura’s biggest domestic competitor is also expanding cost
cuts.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  said this week that it will
eliminate as many as 50 derivatives jobs in  Hong Kong  and may
shrink investment banking and equity research in the city. The
reductions are in addition to 500 positions eliminated by the
Tokyo-based firm in Asia and Europe since last October.  The Americas contributed 35.5 billion yen ($457 million),
or 29 percent, to Nomura’s fiscal first-quarter global wholesale
net revenue, which includes investment banking, fixed-income and
equities trading. That compares with 42.5 billion yen, or 27
percent, in the previous quarter ended March 31, which was the
Americas wholesale division’s strongest since Nomura began
building its U.S. operation in April 2009.  Nomura generated 161.7 billion yen in global equity trading
revenue in the 12 months ended June 30. That compares with $3.2
billion at Bank of America Corp. and $5.6 billion at Morgan
Stanley.  “Downsizing Nomura is an anguished option to take when the
company is still competing as a global investment bank,”
Kouichi Niwa, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
“But this is an unavoidable option to boost profitability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  