-- Nordic Day-Ahead Power Jumps to Four-Month High on Reactor Halt
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-09-26T14:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/nordic-day-ahead-power-jumps-to-four-month-high-on-reactor-halt.html
Nordic power for delivery tomorrow 
jumped to its highest in more than four months after a nuclear
reactor owned by EON AG shut unexpectedly and  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V)  delayed
the start of another atomic unit.  Day-ahead electricity in the market covering  Norway ,
 Sweden , Finland and  Denmark  jumped 7.5 percent percent to 33.50
euros ($43.04) in an auction on the Nord Pool Spot AS exchange
in Oslo. That’s the highest since May 14.  The Nordic region obtains a fifth of its power supply from
fourteen nuclear reactors and their output affects prices for
the commodity. The region’s nuclear utilization rate fell 12
percentage points to 61 percent today compared with yesterday,
data from company websites and calculations by Bloomberg show.  “The nuclear halts took the market by surprise,” Jarmo
Sillanpaeae, a portfolio manager at Energiakolmio Oy, said today
by phone from Jyvaeskylae,  Finland .  EON’s 1,400-megawatt Oskarshamn-3 reactor halted today the
company said in a Nord Pool filing, without providing details.
Fortum delayed the start of its 496-megawatt nuclear reactor
Loviisa-1 by one day to Sept. 28, Finland’s biggest utility said
via Nord Pool. As Loviisa-1 was already shut, it didn’t
contribute to the drop in the atomic utilization rate.  The benchmark fourth-quarter contract rose for a second
day, gaining as much as 1.5 percent to 37.25 euros a megawatt-
hour on the Nasdaq OMX Inc. Group’s energy exchange. The
benchmark traded at 37.20 euros at 3:41 p.m. Oslo time.  Norwegian hydro reservoir levels were 92 percent full last
week, compared with 91.7 percent in the previous period, the
country’s water and energy directorate said today on its
website.  Drier Weather  The hydrological balance, or the amount of water available
for generation compared with the seasonal average, may drop by 7
percent to 11.6 terawatt-hours in the next two weeks,
Markedskraft data on Bloomberg show.  “ Weather forecasts  are marginally drier than yesterday,
but still wetter than average,” Sillanpaeae said. “Still,
Norwegian hydropower producers are improving control over their
production, causing prices for most areas in Norway to rise by
four to eight euros for tomorrow,” he said.  The Nordic region meets roughly half its power demand of
almost 400 terawatt-hours a year by running water through
turbines, which means that electricity prices are affected by
precipitation and hydro reservoirs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  