-- Obama Expands Leads Over Romney in Florida and Ohio, Poll Says
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-09-26T12:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/obama-expands-leads-over-romney-in-florida-and-ohio-poll-says.html
President  Barack Obama  has extended
his lead over Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  in  Florida  and
 Ohio , swing states that may decide the winner of the Nov. 6
election, according to a survey released today.  The Quinnipiac University/New York Times/CBS News poll gave
Obama a 53 percent to 44 percent lead in Florida and a 53
percent to 43 percent advantage in Ohio. The two states together
have 47 electoral votes at stake.  The poll shows improvement in the president’s political
position over last month, when he led by 49 percent to 46
percent in Florida and by 50 percent to 44 percent in Ohio. The
earlier survey was taken before the Republican convention in
Tampa, Florida, and the Democrats’ in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .
Since the conventions ended, most polls have shown Obama leading
Romney both nationally and in key states.  Florida, the fourth-most-populous state, and Ohio, the
seventh, are among nine politically competitive states where
Obama and Romney have been focusing their advertising and
candidate visits. Both states almost always vote the same way as
the nation at large: Ohio has sided with the White House winner
in 12 consecutive presidential elections dating to 1964, the
longest active streak in the nation, and Florida has done so in
those same elections except for 1992. Obama and Romney plan to
campaign in Ohio today.  The poll also gave Obama a 54 percent to 42 percent
advantage over Romney in  Pennsylvania , a Democratic-leaning
state where the candidates and most outside groups aren’t airing
television ads.  More Disappointed  Obama leads in Florida and Ohio even as more people there
are disappointed than satisfied with his presidency. In Florida,
50 percent said they were “very” or “somewhat” disappointed
in Obama’s presidency, compared with 49 percent who said they
were very or somewhat satisfied. In Ohio, 51 percent said they
were disappointed and 49 percent satisfied.  The president’s advantages in Florida and Ohio owe partly
to his having a better public image than Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor and private-equity executive. Majorities
in both states said they have a favorable impression of Obama,
while pluralities in both states said they have an unfavorable
impression of Romney, according to the survey.  Obama outperformed Romney by wide margins when voters were
asked if the candidates care about the needs and problems of
people. In Florida, 57 percent of respondents said that about
Obama, compared with 41 percent for Romney. The gap was wider in
Ohio, where 59 percent said Obama cares about people’s needs and
problems, compared with 38 percent who said that about Romney.  Worsening Image  Romney’s worsening image also was underscored in an ABC
News/Washington Post poll, conducted Sept. 19-23. It said that
61 percent disapprove of how he is handling his presidential
campaign, up from 49 percent in mid-July.  In Florida and Ohio, voters said Obama would be better than
Romney in handling health care and an international crisis,
according to the Quinnipiac University/ New York  Times/CBS News
survey. Obama also led Romney on the economy and taxes, while
Romney has the edge on curbing the federal  budget deficit , the
survey said.  The telephone poll was conducted Sept. 18-24 of 1,196
likely voters in Florida, 1,162 likely voters in Ohio and 1,180
likely voters in Pennsylvania. The margin of error was plus or
minus 2.8 percentage points in Florida and plus or minus 2.9
percentage points in Ohio and Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at  
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  