-- Hong Kong’s Approved Mortgage Loans Jump 29% in August From July
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-09-26T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/hong-kong-s-approved-mortgage-loans-jump-29-in-august-from-july.html
Hong Kong ’s approved mortgage loans
rose 29 percent in August from the previous month as used homes
transactions surged.  Loans approved totaled HK$25.2 billion ($3.2 billion) last
month, with those financing secondary market sales gained 43
percent to HK$18.1 billion, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority
said yesterday in a  statement  on its website. Mortgages drawn-
down increased by 1.9 percent to HK$16.4 billion.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority tightened mortgage lending
in September after saying a third round of quantitative easing
by the U.S. Federal Reserve risks pushing up  home prices . The
central bank is limiting the maximum term on all new mortgages
to 30 years, and mortgage payments for investment properties
can’t be more than 40 percent of buyers’ monthly incomes, up
from the the previous 50 percent.  “As the  property market  became more active in August, the
number of new mortgages greatly increased,” said Sharmaine Lau,
Hong Kong-based chief economist at mReferral Mortgage Brokerage
Services. “There’s ample room for mortgage drawn-down to
increase in September.” The impact of the new mortgage
guidelines may be seen in the fourth quarter, Lau said.  The city’s Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying announced this
month he will restrict buyers of apartments built on two sites
scheduled to be on sale next year to local residents. The
government also pledged to speed up approval of permits for
private project sales.  Hong Kong’s home prices have surpassed their peak in
October 1997, which marked the start of a 70 percent decline to
August 2003, according to the Centaline Property Agency Ltd.
They have soared 240 percent since that trough nine years ago.  In August, the mortgage delinquency ratio and rescheduled
loan ratio were both unchanged at 0.01 percent, HKMA data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  