-- Toyota Joins Nissan in Saying Deeper China Output Cuts Loom
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-09-26T08:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/toyota-joins-nissan-in-cutting-china-output-on-anti-japan-strife.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Nissan Motor
Co. (7201)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  signaled Chinese production cuts may
deepen this month after anti-Japanese protests flared in the
world’s largest vehicle market.  Nissan lowered August output in China, its largest market
by volume, 8.9 percent from a year earlier to 86,488 units, the
Japanese carmaker said today. Chinese production fell 18 percent
to 67,625 vehicles at Toyota,  Asia ’s biggest automaker, and
declined 10 percent at Honda.  Officials at the Japanese automakers said sales and
production are poised to worsen in September after anti-Japan
protests over disputed islets in the  East China Sea  escalated,
with some demonstrators torching auto showrooms and smashing
cars. Japanese autos will lose their lead this year over German
nameplates in the country for the first time since 2005, China’s
Passenger Car Association estimates.  “You can’t leave the Chinese market, but you may try to
move the  production line  out of China for the time being,” said
 Yuuki Sakurai , president of Fukoku Capital Management. Investor
demand for the automakers’ shares  “depends on how the
companies are going to cover these risks,” he said.  Nissan fell 2.6 percent to 664 yen at the close in Tokyo
trading, while Toyota dropped 2.7 percent and Honda declined 4.2
percent.  Market Share  “The impact from the anti-Japan protests are not yet
reflected in the August numbers,” said Yurika Motoyoshi, a
Toyota spokeswoman. “Last year’s numbers were unusually high as
we recovered from the earthquake and tsunami. We’ve already seen
that orders are declining, so the protests’ impact will be shown
in the September numbers.”  Nissan said today it’s halting Chinese production three
days ahead of schedule to reflect demand, while Toyota said that
it’s suspending output from today until Oct. 8 at plants in
Guangzhou and Tianjin, and at its Sichuan FAW plant starting
Sept. 29.  Nissan will suspend production in China from Sept. 27 and
resume output on Oct. 8 in view of the “current market
situation,” Chris Keeffe, a spokesman for the company, said by
telephone today. The company makes cars in the country with
 Dongfeng Motor Corp. (489)   “In previous years, they often added shifts around this
time to meet rising demand during hot sales season in September
and October,” said Han Weiqi, a Shanghai-based analyst with CSC
International Holdings Ltd. “Japanese automakers will see their
market share being taken away by American and European
automakers, as consumers who need to buy cars will simply turn
away and buy other brands.”  Declining Share  Japanese car brands’ China market share will probably fall
to 22 percent this year, while German marques will increase
theirs to 22.5 percent, according to China’s Passenger Car
Association.  Combined sales of Japanese automakers fell last month in
China, compared with gains of more than 10 percent for German,
U.S. and South Korean vehicles, according to the  China 
Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  Some dealerships selling competing brands have introduced
marketing campaigns to attract buyers shunning Japanese cars.  A Buick showroom in eastern Zhejiang province is offering
cash rebates and gift bags to buyers who trade in their Japanese
cars, according to Chen Linling, a saleswoman at the dealership.  “Business has been quite good and we’ve been busy since we
started the promotion,” Chen said by telephone. “We rolled out
this marketing move after the Diaoyu protests in China.”  Korea Dispute  A similar dispute over sovereignty of islands known as
Dokdo in  South Korea  and Takeshima in Japan has drawn more
attention since South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  visited the
islands on Aug. 10. Japanese auto sales also fell in South Korea
last month.  Taiwan also claims sovereignty over the islets China calls
Daiyou and Japan named Senkaku.  “If the Chinese, Koreans and maybe the Taiwanese are not
willing to buy Japanese cars, the sales of Japanese automakers
will suffer, and so will their share prices,” Sakurai of Fukoku
Capital said.  Total sales of Japanese carmakers in South Korea dropped 12
percent and importers attributed the decline to the dispute,
according to a statement e-mailed from the Korea Chamber of
Commerce and Industry.  Japanese carmakers had been increasingly looking toward
China sales as the end of a government subsidy for fuel-
efficient cars in  Japan  stymied domestic demand growth.  Nissan generates about 30 percent of its profit in China,
compared with 17 percent at Toyota and 15 percent at Honda,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates.  Toyota will adjust Kyushu plant output as demand fell in
China, it said yesterday. Toyota makes mostly Lexus vehicles at
plant in the southwestern Japan island.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  