-- Patriots’ Coach Belichick Fined $50,000 for Grabbing Official
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-09-26T17:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/patriots-coach-belichick-fined-50-000-for-grabbing-official.html
New England Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  was fined $50,000 by the  National Football League  for
grabbing the arm of a replacement official after his team’s
31-30 loss to the  Baltimore Ravens .  The NFL also fined Washington Redskins offensive
coordinator Kyle Shanahan $25,000 for a verbal altercation he
had with an official over an erroneous call in the team’s 38-31
loss to the  Cincinnati Bengals .  The league said in a statement that the coaches were fined
for violating the rule prohibiting abuse of game officials.
Belichick was fined for impermissible physical contact and
Shanahan for verbal abuse. Both offenses occurred in games on
Sept. 23.  The fines are the most recent disciplinary actions the
league has taken through the first three weeks of the season
regarding the substitutes who are calling games in place of
officials who are locked out in a dispute hinging on pensions
and performance evaluation.  Players, coaches and even announcers on NFL game broadcasts
have criticized the replacements. The scrutiny reached new
heights on Sept. 24 when the  Seattle Seahawks  beat the Green Bay
Packers 14-12 with a last-second touchdown on a disputed end-
zone catch by Golden Tate.  The NFL said it stood by the call after a review, but
critics -- including U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  -- said it was time to get the
replacement officials off the field. Obama called the touchdown
ruling “terrible.”  Earlier Fines  The NFL fined Denver Broncos coach John Fox $30,000 and
assistant Jack Del Rio $25,000 for verbally abusing officials in
a Sept. 17 loss to Atlanta.  Three days later, the league informed teams that it
wouldn’t tolerate abuse of substitute officials.  The replacements have been criticized for missed and
incorrect calls, a loss of control of players that has led to
fights, and delays in play that have lengthened the games and
disrupted no-huddle offenses.  Belichick grabbed the arm of an official as the teams left
the field following the loss in Baltimore. He said he was trying
to get an explanation on whether the Ravens’ game-winning field
goal -- where the football flew directly over the right goalpost
-- would be reviewed.  “I was just trying to get an explanation for obviously an
important play,” the coach said the next day at a news
conference.  Shanahan, the son of Redskins coach  Mike Shanahan , was
flagged for unsportsmanlike conduct with seven seconds remaining
in the loss to the Bengals. The penalty occurred when he was
trying to get an explanation from an official who erroneously
told the Redskins the game was over because a false-start
penalty would mean a 10-second clock runoff, Shanahan said in a
statement of apology.  “I was frustrated and, in the process of trying to get
some answers from the officials, I conducted myself in the wrong
way,” Shanahan said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Curtis Eichelberger in
Wilmington, Delaware at 
 ceichelberge@Bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  