-- U.K. Gilt Yields Drop Most in Four Months on Europe Debt Concern
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-09-26T16:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/pound-falls-to-two-week-low-on-debt-crisis-concern-gilts-gain.html
U.K. government bonds rose, with
10-year yields falling the most in almost four months, as
speculation euro-area leaders are moving too slowly to end the
debt crisis boosted demand for safer assets.  Benchmark  gilt yields  dropped to the lowest in two weeks
after demonstrations turned violent yesterday in  Madrid  and the
President of the  Spain ’s Catalonia region called early elections
to push for self-determination. The pound gained for a third day
against the euro as an index of U.K. retail sales rose in
September. A gauge of the expected rate of inflation over the
next 30 years, known as the break-even rate, dropped to the
lowest level since 2003.  “The situation in Spain helps to underpin demand for
gilts,” said Mohit Kumar, head of European fixed-income
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “Gilts are expensive at
these levels but an argument against going short at this point
is the uncertainty about Spain.” A short position is a bet an
asset will decline.  The  10-year gilt  yield fell 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 1.69 percent at 5 p.m.  London  time after
dropping as much as 14 basis points, the most since May 30. The
1.75 percent bond due in September 2022 gained 1.145, or 11.45
pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,615) face amount, to 100.52.  Thousands of protesters gathered around the Spanish
Parliament in Madrid late yesterday to oppose budget cuts and
tax increases Rajoy has pursued since coming to power in
December in breach of his campaign pledges.  Spain Concern  Mas’s bid for greater autonomy for Catalonia came a week
after Rajoy rejected his demand for increased control of the
region’s revenue. Mas yesterday set the vote for Nov. 25, saying
the time has come to seek “self-determination.”  Gilts returned 0.4 percent this quarter through yesterday,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. German bonds
gained 0.5 percent and Treasuries rose 0.4 percent.  A gauge of annual U.K. retail sales growth climbed to 6
from minus 3 in August, the  Confederation of British Industry 
said. A measure of expected sales for October was at 15,
indicating stores see the pace of increase accelerating,
according to the report.  The pound rose 0.1 percent to 79.64 pence per euro, and
dropped 0.2 percent to $1.6148.  Sterling has strengthened 1.9 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro dropped 3.2 percent and
the dollar weakened 2.4 percent.  ‘Sufficient Evidence’  The  30-year break-even  rate fell for a third day on
speculation a recalculation of the retail-price index will
impact inflation-linked securities.  The Consumer Prices Advisory Committee said in a statement
on Sept. 18 that there is “sufficient evidence to consider
change” to inflation calculations. The committee is examining
“any unjustifiable formula effect gap” between the retail-
 price index  and the consumer-price index.  The National Statistician will publish a document on Oct. 8
and the consultation will close on Nov. 30.  “The uncertainty about this issue has had a significant
effect on the U.K. index-linked market,” said Kari Hallgrimsson, head of European inflation trading at JPMorgan in
London. “We now have break evens in the long end below where
they were after  Lehman Brothers  collapsed. They are at very
distressed levels. That’s primarily because of this issue.”  The 30-year break-even rate, the difference in yield
between nominal and index-linked bonds, dropped as much as six
basis points to 2.75 percentage points, the lowest level since
December 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  