-- RadioShack CEO Gooch Leaves as Lively Named Interim Chief
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-09-26T20:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/radioshack-ceo-gooch-steps-down-cfo-lively-named-interim.html
  RadioShack Corp. (RSH) , the electronics
retailer whose shares have plunged 73 percent this year, said
Chief Executive Officer James Gooch left after 16 months on the
job and was replaced on an interim basis by its finance chief.  The board and Gooch, 45, agreed that he would step down,
effective immediately, the  Fort Worth , Texas-based company said
in a statement today, without specifying a reason. The board
plans to use an executive search firm to help find a successor.  RadioShack suspended its dividend in July after posting an
unexpected loss amid sluggish  consumer spending  and increasing
dependence on mobile-phone sales. Selling lower-margin  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones ate into the retailer’s profitability, Gooch said
at the time. The company also is facing increasing competition
from Best Buy Co., which is opening smaller stores dedicated to
selling mobile phones, e-readers and tablets.  “Gooch simply was not effective, and a change clearly
needed to be made,”  Anthony Chukumba , an analyst at BB&T
Capital Markets in New York, said in a note. He rates the shares
hold. “We find the timing a bit curious given the fact Gooch
was CEO for just over a year and the start of the crucial
holiday selling season is less than two months away.”  RadioShack rose 1.6 percent to $2.60 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York.  Right Time  “The board decided the timing was right for this
decision,” Eric Bruner, a RadioShack spokesman, said by e-mail.
He declined to elaborate and said Dorvin Lively, who is now
interim chief, wasn’t available for an interview.  “This was a mutual decision in the best interest of the
company,” Bruner said.  Contracts protecting against RadioShack’s default rose 2.2
percentage points to 37.2 percent upfront as of 10:30 a.m. in
 New York , according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a
year, meaning it would cost $3.72 million initially and $500,000
annually for five years to protect $10 million of RadioShack’s
debt.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, rise as
investor confidence deteriorates and fall as it improves.  ‘Driving Traffic’  Julian Day, RadioShack’s previous chief executive, hired
Gooch as finance chief in 2006 after they worked together at
Kmart Holding Corp. Gooch succeeded Day as CEO last year and had
been working to spur stagnant sales. Analysts estimate the
company will post a net loss of $27.2 million this year,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The real challenge of someone like RadioShack is driving
traffic to their stores,” said Brian Nagel, a New York-based
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., who rates the shares market
perform, the equivalent of a hold. “They have a store format
that is largely ineffective -- it’s too big to sell wireless and
too small to sell most other product categories.”  Lively, 54, joined RadioShack last year after being CFO at
Ace Hardware Corp. He also worked at  Maidenform Brands Inc. (MFB)  and
Toys “R” Us Inc.  Scott Young resigned as RadioShack’s chief merchandise
officer in June, according to a regulatory filing.  The retailer has about 4,700 company-run stores in the U.S.
and  Mexico , as well as 1,500 wireless phone centers in the U.S.
and 1,100 dealer and other outlets worldwide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  