-- RBS May Need to Offer Direct Line at 25% Discount, Investors Say
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-09-26T06:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/rbs-may-need-to-offer-direct-line-at-25-discount-investors-say.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
may have to sell Direct Line Insurance Group Plc for about 25
percent less than the insurer’s estimated market value in its
initial public offering, investors say.  Direct Line should be priced at about 2.5 billion-pounds
($4.7 billion), according to  JO Hambro Capital Management Ltd. 
and  Rathbone Brothers Plc . That compares with a 3.4 billion-
pound valuation published in a report by Commerzbank AG, co-
manager of the IPO, sent to potential investors and obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  “There’s a lack of enthusiasm, unless it’s very cheap,”
said Julian Chillingworth, chief investment officer at Rathbone,
which has 16.7 billion pounds of assets under management. “The
only growth is coming from cost-cutting.”  Direct Line is the biggest motor insurer in a U.K. market
that hasn’t made an underwriting profit in the last decade
because of surging personal-injury claims. RBS plans to offer at
least 25 percent of Direct Line in the share sale as soon as
October, in the first step of a European Union ruling that
determined it must sell the insurer by the end of 2014 in return
for taking state aid during the 2008 financial crisis.  The valuation would be equal to Direct Line’s tangible book
value of 2.5 billion pounds, as of June 30, according to company
filings. Tangible book value is a measure of its assets minus
liabilities and goodwill. Goodwill is the amount exceeding the
estimated market price of the net assets paid at the time of an
acquisition.  Debt Crisis  Market volatility caused by  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
has created a difficult environment for new stock sales in the
region. Companies raised $1.5 billion this year in London IPOs,
compared with $15.6 billion in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Direct Line’s IPO would
be the biggest in the U.K. since the commodities trader  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  raised $10 billion in May last year.  Direct Line Chief Executive Officer Paul Geddes is focusing
on controlling expenses and improving underwriting after the
firm lost money in 2010 because of rising personal injury costs
on motor insurance policies. The firm “messed up” by failing
to manage claims and raise premiums quickly enough during the
period, RBS CEO Stephen Hester said in 2009.  The insurer, which has about 8.5 million mainly U.K. home
and motor insurance customers, returned to profit in 2011 and
earnings rose 7 percent to 224.2 million pounds in the first
half of this year. It paid out 1.01 pounds in claims for every
pound it took in premiums in the six months ended June 30.  ‘Improving Trend’  “The record of Direct Line over the last three or four
years hasn’t been great, although it is on an improving trend,”
said Clive Beagles, whose 1.3 billion-pound U.K. equity fund at
JO Hambro beat 97 percent of rivals since 2007. “It would
appeal to us if the valuation is broadly around book value.”  Investors in the IPO deserve to buy the shares at a lower
valuation than competitors such as  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA) ,
which has “overseas and emerging-market exposure,” according
to Chris White, who manages 550 million pounds at Premier Asset
Management Plc.  “Even though premiums have risen sharply over the last few
years, the U.K. industry as a whole isn’t making a lot of profit
because claims have risen as well,” White said.  RSA gets 65 percent of revenue from outside the U.K., 15
percent from  emerging markets  and trades at 1.1 times its book
value, a measure of its net assets, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. Direct Line gets 85 percent of its revenue from
the U.K., according to the Commerzbank sales document.  Dividend Key  Direct Line’s dividend yield will be a key metric for
investors, Rathbone’s Chillingworth said. That figure should be
between 6 percent and 8 percent to bring it in line with other
insurance stocks, he said.  RSA’s  yields  8.6 percent,  Aviva Plc (AV/)  8.8 percent and  Admiral
Group Plc (ADM)  4.6 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Linda Harper , a spokeswoman for RBS, Britain’s biggest
government-owned lender, declined to comment on how the bank
values Direct Line.  Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG are
managing the IPO as bookrunners, while Bank of America Corp.,
Citigroup Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc are joint lead managers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 