-- Romania Seen Leaving Rates Unchanged on Price-Growth Concerns
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-09-26T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/romania-seen-leaving-rates-unchanged-on-price-growth-concerns.html
Romania’s central bank will
probably leave its  main interest rate  unchanged for a fourth
meeting today as it weighs the impact of rising food prices amid
slowing economic growth.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei will keep the monetary-
policy rate at 5.25 percent, according to all 18 economists
 surveyed by Bloomberg . A decision will be announced after 11
a.m. in Bucharest.  Policy makers have been holding off on easing rates because
of political turmoil that pushed the leu to a record low and a
drought that has hit this year’s harvest, as central banks in
the region cut or consider lowering borrowing costs to boost
flagging economic growth.  “We expect the National Bank of Romania to keep the key
rate at 5.25 percent,” said Vlad Muscalu, senior economist at
ING Bank  Romania  in Bucharest. “Nevertheless, this is shaping
up as a particularly interesting meeting given the sharp
deterioration of the near-term inflation outlook.”  Inflation in the eastern European country, which has
changed governments twice this year, may accelerate in 2012 more
than the central bank’s 3.2 percent forecast because of
political turmoil before general elections and a drought that
boosted prices for imports and food, Governor Mugur Isarescu
said Aug. 6. This year’s rate is likely to stay within the
bank’s target of 2 percent to 4 percent, he said.  Economic Recession  The central bank lowered rates 1 percentage point before
pausing on May 2 after the government collapsed and the economy
entered its second recession in three years.  Gross domestic
product  will grow 0.9 percent this year compared with 2.5
percent last year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Neighboring  Hungary ’s central bank lowered its two-week
deposit rate to 6.5 percent for a second month yesterday and
forecast further cuts to aid an ailing economy, while the Czech
central bank may cut its main rate to 0.25 percent from 0.5
percent, already a record low, today, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  inflation  rate reached 3.9 percent in August, the
highest in a year, as the drought pushed up food costs.  Supply-Side Shocks  “For the moment, the National Bank of Romania could take a
wait-and-see approach, in order to assess the impact of higher
consumer prices on inflation expectations,” Raiffeisen Bank
Romania SA analyst Nicolae Covrig said. “This view is motivated
by the fact that the acceleration in consumer prices is mainly
related to supply-side shocks falling outside the control of the
central bank.”  A weakening currency has limited the room policy makers
have to ease monetary policy, Erik de Vrijer, the head of an IMF
mission to Romania, said in an interview on Aug. 14, adding that
a tightening of rates may even be discussed.  The leu has dropped 1.2 percent against the euro this
month, and traded late yesterday at 4.5193 to  Europe ’s common
currency, according to data compiled Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  