-- Romania Leu Weakens to One-Month Low Before Rate-Setting Meeting
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-09-26T14:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/romania-leu-weakens-to-one-month-low-before-rate-setting-meeting.html
The leu retreated to the lowest in
a month before the Romanian central bank’s rate-setting meeting
tomorrow and as monetary policy makers weigh the impact of
rising inflation.  The currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 4.5193 per euro by
5:16 p.m. in Bucharest, the weakest on a closing basis since
Aug. 13. Yields on  Romania ’s country’s 2018 euro-denominated
bond rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.88
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei will leave its policy rate
at 5.25 percent tomorrow, according to all 18 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Romania’s inflation rate rose to 3.9
percent in August, the highest in a year, as a drought in the
country pushed up food prices.  Stocks slid, the euro weakened and oil dropped for a third
day after Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said yesterday more bond purchases probably won’t boost
growth. Spanish bonds fell, with the 10-year yield reaching 6
percent, after Catalan President Artur Mas called early
elections.  “As sentiment in core markets dampened overnight we see
potential for the leu to retest the 4.52 per euro threshold,”
Vlad Muscalu, a senior economist at ING Groep NV in Bucharest,
wrote in an e-mailed note today. “The currency is currently
trading on decent volumes, which could point towards more
pressure building into the leu weakening trend that we have
witnessed since the start of September.”  -- Editors: Ash Kumar, Peter Branton  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  