-- Romania May Leave Interest Rate Steady for Fourth Meeting on CPI
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-09-26T08:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/romania-may-leave-interest-rate-steady-for-fourth-meeting-on-cpi.html
The Romanian central bank will
probably leave its  main interest rate  unchanged for a fourth
meeting to weigh the impact of rising food prices amid slowing
economic growth.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei will leave its monetary-
policy rate at 5.25 percent tomorrow, according to all 18
economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . A decision will be announced
after 11 a.m. in Bucharest.  Romanian policy makers have been holding off on monetary
policy changes because of a political turmoil that pushed the
leu to a record low and a drought that has hit this year’s
harvest, as central banks in the region cut or consider lowering
borrowing costs to boost flagging economic growth.  “In the context of rising inflationary risks, it’s likely
that the National Bank of Romania will maintain a prudent
approach, although the external environment is more supportive
than in previous weeks,” Monica Croitoru, an economist at BRD-
Groupe Societe Generale SA in Bucharest, said.  The central bank lowered rates 1 percentage point before
pausing on May 2 after the government collapsed and the economy
entered its second recession in three years.  Gross domestic
product  will grow 0.9 percent this year compared with 2.5
percent last year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Regional Trend  Neighboring  Hungary ’s central bank lowered its two-week
deposit rate to 6.5 percent for a second month yesterday and
forecast further cuts to aid an ailing economy, while the Czech
central bank may cut its main rate to 0.25 percent from 0.5
percent, already a record low tomorrow, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We estimate the Romanian central bank will keep the key
rate unchanged at least until the second quarter of 2013 to
fight off potential second-round inflationary effects from the
increases in food, fuel and regulated prices as well as
pressures from private capital outflows,” Croitoru said.  Inflation in the eastern European country, which has
changed governments twice this year, may accelerate in 2012 more
than the central bank’s 3.2 percent forecast due to political
turmoil ahead of general elections and a drought that boosted
prices for imports and food, Governor Mugur Isarescu said Aug.
6. This year’s rate is likely to stay within the bank’s target
of 2 percent to 4 percent, he said.  Drought Effects  The  inflation  rate reached 3.9 percent in August, the
highest in a year, as the drought pushed up food costs.  “For the moment, the National Bank of  Romania  could take a
wait-and-see approach, in order to assess the impact of higher
consumer prices on inflation expectations,” Raiffeisen Bank
Romania SA analyst Nicolae Covrig said. “This view is motivated
by the fact that the acceleration in consumer prices is mainly
related to supply-side shocks falling outside the control of the
central bank.”  A weakening currency has limited the room policy makers
have to ease monetary policy, Erik de Vrijer, the head of an IMF
mission to Romania, said in an interview on Aug. 14, adding that
a tightening of rates may even be discussed.  The leu has dropped 6.34 percent against the euro this
month, the second-worst performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  