-- Saakashvili’s Best Legacy Is Fair Vote and Graceful Exit
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-26T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/saakashvili-s-best-legacy-is-fair-vote-and-graceful-exit.html
Georgia ’s President Mikheil Saakashvili is one of those larger-than-life figures whom people
either love or hate, blindly and passionately. To some a beacon
of democracy and free-market revolution, to others he’s a
deranged autocrat.  On Oct. 1, Georgians will hold elections that could mark
the beginning of the end of Saakashvili’s rule. Although his
final term as president doesn’t end until next year, changes he
engineered to the constitution will shift power then to the
prime minister. Next week’s vote is for the chamber that will
select that new prime minister. So a lot is at stake in a
country that has yet to see a full transfer of power through the
ballot box, that hosts big oil and gas pipelines, and that
remains partially occupied by Russian troops.  The campaign, spearheaded by Saakashvili for the ruling
United National Movement party and by billionaire businessman
Bidzina Ivanishvili for the opposition Georgian Dream coalition,
has been  divisive  and ill-tempered. Last week, when two
opposition TV stations aired graphic footage of prison guards
beating and sexually abusing a male inmate, emotions boiled
over.  The footage seemed to underscore all of the reasons that
Saakashvili’s opponents give for why Georgians -- and the
president’s Western allies -- should dispense with a man they
say has no regard for individual rights. An election that
previously looked certain to end with another victory for
Saakashvili’s party now looks like a contest.  So how bad is Saakashvili, really? When he took over from
Eduard Shevardnadze in 2004 after the so-called Rose Revolution,
Georgia was home to three breakaway territories and crippled by
civil war.  Tax collection  made the Greek system look effective,
corruption was legendary, criminal bosses and warlords ruled.
The new U.S. educated president, just 37 years old, took a
radical approach, very different from most other post-Soviet
rulers.  He fired the entire 30,000-strong traffic police force to
end a daily source of petty corruption. He had businessmen who
pillaged the state arrested, forcing them to choose between jail
and large arbitrary payments to the state, with no pretense at
due process. Georgia ranked 64th on Transparency International’s
 corruption perceptions index  last year, improving from 133rd in
2004.  Saakashvili put libertarians in charge of the economy. They
introduced a flat tax and benchmarked the  World Bank ’s  Ease of
Doing Business  Index, using it as a guide to make the country
more business friendly. Today, Georgia ranks 16th of 183
countries on the index -- above  Germany ,  Japan  and  Switzerland .
The  economy  is growing at about 8 percent, amid deepening
inequality.  Saakashvili also declared a zero-tolerance approach to
crime. As a result, streets became much safer and the prison
population  soared  to more than 23,000 in July, from 8,000 in
2004. Conditions for inmates deteriorated from a low base. The
regime took a tough line inside the prisons, too, aiming to
eradicate the influence of the criminal bosses who had
effectively run them.  So when the prison abuse videos were aired, they were
instantly believable, despite allegations that the opposition
paid for them. Saakashvili saw the political danger, fired the
prisons minister and replaced her with a vocal critic of prison
conditions. Most important, he secured the resignation of
Interior Minister Bachana Akhalaia, a powerful figure in the
regime and a former prisons minister widely seen as responsible
for prison conditions. It may not be enough, because he ignored
calls for reform for too long.  Saakashvili promised to bring a Western-style democracy to
the Caucasus and failed to do so. But he was never a plausible
democrat. As Saakashvili said in an interview soon after he took
power, his role model was Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, a great leader
but no democrat. Saakashvili sees political opponents as trouble
makers, if not Russian agents, trying to interfere with his
nation-building. He responded to opposition demonstrations with
tear gas and developed a personal feud with  Vladimir Putin  that
in 2008 led to war.  But Saakashvili compares well on a more realistic scale of
measurement: his neighbors. Notably, there are opposition TV
stations to run the prison videos in Georgia, something that
couldn’t happen in  Russia ; elections are real if imperfect; and
the government has welcomed election observers, something many
of Georgia’s neighbors don’t do.  Who wins on Monday matters less than how. Despite being
consistently behind in opinion polls, Ivanishvili, who made his
estimated $6.4 billion fortune in Russia, has insisted that he’s
on course to win by a wide margin and that losing is
unimaginable. That smacks of a plan to reject the results and
take to the streets, no matter how fair the vote. The last thing
Georgia needs is another revolution. He should accept the result
unless international monitors declare the election stolen.  Saakashvili can still rescue his reputation, if not as a
democrat, then as a nation-builder. But he needs to wind down
his revolution by dictat and start sharing power. Above all, if
his party wins he needs to resist any temptation to switch seats
with the prime minister he just appointed, when the time comes
to step down as president next year. Otherwise, he truly will be
no better than Putin or any other ex-Soviet autocrat who has
sought to play musical chairs to cling onto power.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on bringing back  Build America
Bonds ;  Caroline Baum  on  Romney’s best chance to win ;  Michael
Kinsley  on  Romney’s incompetence ;  Ezra Klein  on  undecided
voters ;  Amity Shlaes  on why pensions are fueling  U.S. class
warfare ;  Jeff Rubin  on whether  high oil prices  will save the
planet;  Stephen Smith  on how Republicans derail  Amtrak
privatization .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 