-- Samsung Sees Stronger Start for Note 2, Unfazed by iPhone
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-09-26T04:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/samsung-sees-stronger-start-for-note-2-unfazed-by-iphone.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  expects
sales of its new Galaxy Note 2 smartphone to get off to a
stronger start than its predecessor even after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sold a
record number of the latest iPhone in its debut weekend.  The model will probably sell three times faster than the
previous Note did in the first three months, as more carriers
are set to offer the product, J.K. Shin, head of the  mobile
business , said at a briefing in  Seoul , without giving a
projection. The device goes on sale in 128 markets through 260
operators, starting with  South Korea  today, the Suwon, South
Korea-based company said in a statement.  Samsung, the world’s largest mobile-phone seller, is
offering a variety of Galaxy devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system to cement leadership in the global
smartphone market. More than 5 million iPhone 5 handsets were
sold in the first three days, surpassing a record set last year
by the previous model, Apple said on Sept. 24.  Samsung is marketing the pen-equipped Note devices
alongside its best-selling Galaxy S smartphones after the first
model sold more than 10 million units and helped Samsung regain
the lead in global smartphone sales from Apple this year.  Samsung first unveiled the Galaxy Note 2 at the IFA
consumer-electronics fair in Berlin last month. The model has a
5.5-inch screen, larger than its predecessor, and runs the
latest version of Android. The device is loaded with software
that recognizes handwriting from a digital pen.  Digital Pen  The updated digital pen will allow consumers to hover over
the screen to preview content and will be available for third-
party applications.  In the second quarter, Samsung controlled about 35 percent
of the global smartphone market, followed by Apple with about 18
percent, according to market researcher  Strategy Analytics .  Samsung is introducing new devices as a  patent dispute  with
Apple deepens.  Apple won more than $1 billion in damages Aug. 24 after a
jury found the South Korean company infringed six of seven
patents at stake in the trial. In that case, the iPhone maker
seeks a U.S. ban on eight Samsung smartphone models and a tablet
computer. In a separate lawsuit, Apple has added the Galaxy S
III to a list of products it says infringe its patents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  