-- SEC Seeks to Intervene in Lehman Unit Fight With Barclays
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-09-26T18:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/sec-seeks-to-intervene-in-lehman-unit-fight-with-barclays.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission asked for permission to intervene in Lehman Brothers
Inc.’s appeal of a $5.5 billion award to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  that
stemmed from the purchase of the Lehman parent’s North American
businesses in 2008.  The SEC has the legal right to participate in all cases
involving a brokerage that’s being liquidated under the
Securities Investor Protection Act, the regulator said in a
letter to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York.  The SEC previously sided with the Lehman brokerage in
district court, saying that as long as there is a shortfall in
what’s owed to clients, Barclays has only a conditional claim on
as much as $1.3 billion reserved for customers.  The dueling between the second-biggest U.K. bank and Lehman
brokerage trustee James Giddens followed a 2010  bankruptcy court 
trial. Both sides challenged the trial judge’s order on the
disputed assets, as well as the district judge’s order that
mostly favored Barclays.  Michael O’Looney, a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment
on the  SEC filing .  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail asking what the SEC might say
when it files papers in the case or appears in court.  The Lehman brokerage went into liquidation in September
2008 separately from its parent, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The Lehman parent, now out of bankruptcy, said yesterday it
has paid advisers $60.1 million in fees since completing a
liquidation plan March 6, including $26.9 million to Alvarez &
Marsal LLC for “interim management.”  Asset Sales  The defunct investment bank, which continues to sell assets
to pay the average creditor about 18 cents on the dollar, said
it paid an additional $8 million to advisers for services
rendered before March 6, bringing total fees for its bankruptcy
case, the biggest in U.S. history, to $1.73 billion.  The Lehman parent, which is due to make a second payment to
creditors of $10.2 billion on Oct. 1, disclosed the fees in an
operating report filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan
yesterday. The brokerage, which transferred most of its retail
accounts to Barclays four years ago, hasn’t yet paid  hedge funds 
and other big investors.  The appeal is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 12-2328,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 