-- Sharp Said to Plan 10,000 Job Cuts, Factory Sales to Foxconn
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-09-26T07:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/sharp-said-to-plan-cutting-10-000-jobs-selling-recurrent-energy.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  plans to cut more than
10,000 jobs, or about 18 percent of its workforce, and is in
talks to sell plants as the Japanese TV maker tries to return to
profit, two people with knowledge of the proposal said.  The job cuts and sales of television factories in  Mexico ,
 China  and Malaysia and U.S. solar developer Recurrent Energy LLC
were in the plan Sharp presented to its lenders Sept. 24, the
people said, declining to be identified because the matter isn’t
public. Sharp is negotiating with Foxconn Technology Group to
dispose of the three plants, the people said.  Sharp, reeling from record losses and facing hurdles in
selling shares to Foxconn, submitted the proposals to its main
banks  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306) , seeking support on refinancing commercial paper and
other debt, two people with knowledge of the matter said this
week. The banks will contribute to a total of about 360 billion
yen ($4.6 billion) in loans, the people said.  Miyuki Nakayama, a Sharp spokeswoman based in Tokyo,
declined to comment.  Resona Holdings Inc. (8308)  and Nippon Life
Insurance Co. may join in providing loans, one of the people
said.  Sharp closed unchanged at 207 yen in Tokyo today. The
shares have declined 69 percent this year.  Asset Sales  Kyodo News  reported yesterday that Sharp will cut a total
of 10,966 jobs and raise 213 billion yen by selling assets,
including overseas factories and shares in Toshiba Corp. The job
cuts include the 5,000 announced by Sharp last month.  Simon Hsing, a spokesman for Foxconn flagship Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co., declined to comment today.  Sharp wants to raise 38 billion yen from selling the
plants, 25 billion yen from Recurrent Energy, 3 billion yen from
its  Tokyo  office building and 1.6 billion yen from its Toshiba
stake, Kyodo reported yesterday, without saying where it got the
information.  The company agreed in 2010 to buy closely held Recurrent
for as much as $305 million in cash. Recurrent installs, owns
and operates solar-power systems and sells the generated
electricity to utilities, municipalities and businesses.  Sharp also is considering combining its mobile-phone unit
with Fujitsu Ltd., Kyodo reported today. Masahiro Yamane, a
Tokyo-based spokesman for Fujitsu, said the company “hasn’t
heard anything from Sharp.”  Payroll Cuts  Sharp will delist its shares from bourses in three Japanese
cities, including Sapporo and Fukuoka, the company said in a
statement today. The company reached an agreement with its union
about payroll reductions and job cuts, which were announced
earlier, Sharp said in a separate statement.  Sharp has put up properties including its headquarters as
collateral to raise funds. The maker of Aquos TVs has turned to
lenders for financial support as it struggles to refinance its
 debt  after  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service cut
its credit ratings to  junk .  The company had 706 billion yen of short-term debt maturing
within 12 months and 314 billion yen in long-term debts at the
end of June, according to its latest quarterly financial
statement. Sharp’s  cash and near-cash  stood at 218 billion yen
at the time.  The electronics maker has been renegotiating terms for a
proposed stake sale to Taipei-based Foxconn after widening its
full-year loss forecast eightfold in August, triggering a slide
in its share price. Foxconn agreed in March to invest 67 billion
yen for a 9.9 percent stake in Sharp at 550 yen a share.  Sharp plans to return to profit next fiscal year with the
help of job cuts and cost reductions, President Takashi Okuda
said Sept. 14. The company is trimming its workforce and
planning to reduce wages, managers’ salaries and bonuses to
lower costs by 14 billion yen, it said earlier this month.  The cuts are in addition to a 100 billion-yen reduction in
fixed costs Sharp announced in August.  Sharp had 56,756 employees as of March 31, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  