-- Silver Lake Is Said to Cut Target for Soros-Backed Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-09-26T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/silver-lake-is-said-to-cut-target-for-soros-backed-fund.html
Silver Lake , the largest
technology-focused private-equity firm, cut the target amount
for the clean-technology fund it set out to raise early last
year with the backing of  George Soros , according to two people
familiar with the situation.  The firm lowered its goal for Silver Lake Kraftwerk Fund LP
to $750 million from $1 billion, the people said. Silver Lake,
which started marketing the fund the first half of last year,
had raised $302 million as of July, according to a filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Clean-technology funds attracted $4.3 billion last year,
down from $8.8 billion in 2009, according to Preqin Ltd. Most of
the Silver Lake Kraftwerk team hasn’t previously worked
together, meaning they don’t have the track record as a group
that many investors are looking for before committing money.  Soros Fund Management LLC agreed to invest $300 million in
the fund, according to a May 2011 presentation. The  SEC filing 
didn’t say whether some of the capital raised so far was from
Soros. The filing listed the total offering amount of the fund
at $1.25 billion.  Charlotte  McCrum, a spokeswoman at Brunswick Group,
declined to comment on behalf of Silver Lake.  Tomlinson Departure  The Silver Lake Kraftwerk team is led by Adam Grosser, who
previously was a general partner at Foundation Capital. The
group also includes Cathy Zoi, who worked at the U.S. Department
of Energy, and Bryce Lee, formerly Credit Suisse Group AG’s head
of technology investment banking in the Americas.  Steffan Tomlinson, who was chief administrative officer at
Silver Lake Kraftwerk, left in September 2011, according to a
biography posted on the website of Palo Alto Networks Inc.,
where he is chief financial officer.  The fund completed its first deal in February, investing in
SolarCity Corp., a developer of rooftop solar power systems.  The new fund will target companies developing technology
that makes energy production more efficient, reduces waste and
emissions and overhauls aging infrastructure. It intends to
invest in later-stage companies that are close to an initial
public offering, avoiding sometimes long times to exit for
capital-intensive clean energy investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  