-- Singapore Will Take in Foreigners at Comfortable Pace, Lee Says
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-09-26T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/singapore-will-take-in-foreigners-at-comfortable-pace-lee-says.html
Singapore  will continue to take in
foreigners even as citizens complain about overcrowding and
increased competition for jobs, former Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew said.  “We have slowed down the intake of foreigners but we will
continue taking in foreigners at a pace” that citizens “find
comfortable,” Lee, 89, said at a conference in Singapore
yesterday.  Singapore, which occupies an area about half the size of
Houston, has added about 1 million people since the beginning of
2005 as the government allowed more immigration to make up for a
declining birth rate. The influx contributed to crowded
transportation and more competition for jobs, housing and places
in schools, fueling voter anger that led to the ruling party’s
smallest electoral win last year since independence in 1965.  Foreigners and permanent residents make up more than a
third of the island’s 5.2 million population, and of the 122,600
jobs created in Singapore last year, about 70 percent went to
workers from overseas. The city’s fertility rate of 1.2 children
per woman is too low, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong,  Lee Kuan
Yew ’s elder son, said last month.  “We are in a particularly perilous position,” said the
elder Lee, referring to the country’s population. “If we are
not taking in migrants, immigrants, from  China  and from the
region, we will be a diminishing and aging population.”  Squeezed Out  Singapore rejected more foreigner job permit applications
and renewed fewer existing ones in the first seven months of
2012, Tan Chuan-Jin, acting minister for manpower, said in
Parliament on Sept. 11. It also granted fewer permanent resident
permits on average in 2010 compared with the annual rate from
2004 to 2008, Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean said in a
written reply to a parliamentary question this month.  The government has made it more expensive for companies to
hire overseas workers by raising levies, and in the past year,
it has increased salary thresholds and required better
educational qualifications for some categories of foreigners.  “We have many complaints from our own citizens who see a
large number of foreign faces on trains and buses and they say
look, I am being squeezed out of my country,” the former prime
minister said yesterday. Still, “we are short of workers,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  