-- Korean Manufacturer Confidence Holds Near Three-Year Low
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-09-26T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/south-korean-manufacturer-confidence-holds-near-three-year-low.html
South Korean manufacturers’
confidence fell from the previous month to stay near the lowest
level since 2009, keeping pressure on the government and central
bank to take further measures to stimulate growth.  An  index  measuring expectations for October was at 72 from
75 in September, the  Bank of  Korea  said in a statement in  Seoul 
today. The gauge hit 70 in August, the lowest level since May
2009, with any number below 100 indicating that pessimists
outnumber optimists.  China ’s slowdown and  Europe ’s debt crisis have crimped
demand for South Korea’s exports, which make up about half of
Asia’s fourth-largest economy. The Bank of Korea cut rates in
July, then refrained from altering borrowing costs for the next
two months as the government unveiled stimulus measures.  “External demand is unlikely to pick up until easing by
Korea’s key trading partners filters through to the real
economy,” Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said before today’s release. “We maintain our
call for the  Bank of Korea  to deliver one more 25 basis point
cut in October to boost households’ disposable income and
increase domestic demand.”  A measure of expectations at  non-manufacturing companies 
fell to 67, down from 69 in September, today’s report showed.
The survey was conducted between Sept. 13 and Sept. 20 with
responses from 1,454 manufacturers and 1,049 non-manufacturers.  South Korea’s industrial production probably fell 0.4
percent in August from July, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists before the data are released tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  