-- Spain’s Boom-Era Building Gear Sold as Developers Cut Off
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-09-27T16:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/spain-s-boom-era-building-gear-sold-as-developers-cut-off.html
Angel Fernandez used to travel to
the Netherlands to buy equipment for  Spanish homebuilders  when
they were powering  Europe ’s third-biggest construction market.
Now he watches as buyers come to take diggers, excavators and
trucks to countries where they won’t just gather dust.  Standing in a sunburned field in Ocana, a 90-minute drive
south of  Madrid , 41-year-old Fernandez looks on as never-used
construction equipment is sold at discounts of as much as 20
percent through Ritchie Bros. Auctioneers Inc. Business is brisk
for the world’s largest industrial-equipment auctioneer, a sign
that time has run out for Spanish builders that were propped up
by banks for years after the machines fell silent.  “My business is being made obsolete,” said Fernandez, who
bids for equipment on behalf of Spanish construction companies.
“When the crisis began in 2008, we all thought that it would be
over in two or three years, but we got to 2011 and realized we
were in worse shape.”  Almost half of  Spain ’s 67,000 developers are insolvent but
not bankrupt after getting additional financing from banks,
according to R.R. de Acuna & Asociados, a property consulting
firm. Extending the lives of companies is becoming harder for
banks after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government demanded
they set more money aside to cover losses on real estate loans.  Overseas Buyers  Fernandez points out unused gear made in 2009 on sale at
the Sept. 13-14 auction. He said it had remained unsold after
distributors ordered stock for sales that never materialized. He
was authorized to bid as much as 70,000 euros ($90,000) for a
tractor and went home empty-handed after another buyer offered
82,500 euros. Seven out of 10 lots sold at the auction were
purchased by overseas buyers.  “Construction in Spain ground to a halt four years ago,
but banks chose to refinance initially, which is a slow death,”
Jeroen Rijk, senior vice president of European sales for  Ritchie
Bros. (RBA) , said at the auction. “They aren’t doing that anymore,
which is why there is so much product on the market now. Spain
definitely ranks top of the class for overdoing it.”  Spain’s construction and real estate industry, which
represented 18 percent of gross domestic product before the
financial crisis, now accounts for 11 percent and building
permits plummeted 87 percent last year from the 2004 peak,
according to data compiled by the Ministry of Public Works. The
industry is now Europe’s fifth-biggest after placing third
before the crash, real estate adviser  Davis Langdon  said.  Austerity Protests  Spain’s economic crisis prompted protesters to march for a
second night in Madrid yesterday, calling on Rajoy to reverse
austerity measures as his nine-month-old government prepares a
fifth package of budget cuts.  Spanish 10-year yields dropped four basis points to 6.03
percent, after rising above 6 percent yesterday for the first
time since Sept. 18. Benchmark rates jumped 32 basis points
yesterday, the biggest increase since Aug. 2.  Home prices  have fallen 32 percent from a high point in
2007, Tasaciones Inmobiliarias, Spain’s largest home value
appraiser, estimates. There’s no sign of the decline abating,
with construction output down 16 percent in July compared with a
year earlier, according to Eurostat, the European Union’s
statistics agency.  The end to Spain’s decade-long property boom left more than
30,000 developers technically insolvent with combined debt of
180 billion euros, Acuna & Asociados estimated in May. That will
lead to 104 billion euros of losses for Spanish banks that
haven’t been fully balanced by provisions, according to the
company.  Higher Provisions  The government in February ordered banks to increase
provisions to 80 percent of the value of land on their books
from 31 percent and set aside 65 percent for unfinished
developments from 27 percent previously. That contributed to
53.8 billion euros of charges and capital ordered that month. In
May, lenders were told they must set aside about 30 billion
euros more to cover potential losses on 123 billion euros of
real estate-linked lending that is still performing.  Spain created a so-called bad bank in August to clear
soured real estate assets from the books of struggling banks so
they could resume lending. Rajoy, who initially resisted the
idea, agreed to create the institution because it is among the
conditions for the country’s banks to receive 100 billion euros
in aid authorized by the European Union in July.  Price Pressure  As the bad bank disposes of its assets, completed projects
are probably the first things it will sell, Alvaro Serrano and
Sara Minelli, analysts at Morgan Stanley, said in a September
report. That could push down the value of similar properties an
additional 10 percent to 20 percent, they said. Spanish banks
may require 7 billion euros to 14 billion euros of additional
provisions for bad debts, “which would wipe out domestic
earnings for 2013,” they said in a Sept. 12 report.  Loans to real estate developers account for 20 percent of
 Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) ’s balance sheet, London-based Serrano
and Minelli wrote. The bank hasn’t yet made adequate provisions
for potential losses on those loans, and unpaid arrears from
troubled developers will contribute to a loss of 847 million
euros at the bank this year, the analysts estimated.  “The bank is still in the process of provisioning, but we
have already provisioned what is required of us and more,” a
spokesman for the bank said. He declined to be identified,
citing company policy.  The Bankia group set aside 6.8 billion euros in the first
half to provision for bad loans and real estate, and a further
6.9 billion euros of charges are expected this year, according
to the bank. Bankinter SA had 275.2 million euros in provisions
in the first half to recognize real estate losses.  Builders Hit  The country’s large publicly traded construction companies
have been hit hard by the downturn. Spanish revenue at 
Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA  fell about 38 percent
from 2008 through 2011 and  Ferrovial SA (FER)  saw a sales decline of
30 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sacyr
Vallehermoso SA (SYV) , which develops and rents out real estate, had a
sales drop of about 50 percent. The IBEX 35 Index of Spain’s
most liquid stocks fell 45 percent in the same period.  Work started on fewer than 4,500 houses in February this
year, a 94 percent decline from the October 2006 peak, according
to data compiled by the Ministry of Public Works.  Ibrahim Arrejehi, a buyer for  Saudi Arabia ’s Arabian
Contractor Co., was at the Ocana auction to bid for equipment to
sell in his home country as well as Pakistan, Afghanistan and
 India .  20% Discount  “New machinery in Spain is selling at around a 20 percent
discount from the peak and used items are going for around 40
percent lower,” Arrejehi said. “Spain is unique; developers
here bought an enormous amount of machines.”  Spanish firms buy too much machinery instead of renting
because they can include the expense with their other debts,
reducing the overall cost of finance, according to a  study  by
Madrid’s Universidad Carlos III and Barcelona’s Universitat
Pompeu Fabra. The over-investment in construction gear reduces
builders’ profitability from projects, authors Marco Celentani,
Miguel Garcia-Posada and Fernando Gomez wrote in a report
published in February.  “There is huge excess capacity,” Celentani said in a
telephone interview. “Who wants to buy construction machinery
in Spain right now?”  Fernandez and Arrejehi were among 1,370 bidders from 74
countries who bought 2,086 lots, according to figures compiled
by Ritchie Bros., based in Burnaby, British Columbia.  Ritchie Bros. opened its 60-acre (24 hectare) Ocana
location three years ago after a site in Moncofa, eastern Spain,
reached full capacity a year after opening.  Distressed Sellers  Globally, as much as 10 percent of the equipment sold by
Ritchie Bros. comes from distressed sellers, said Valencia-based
Rijk.  “That percentage is higher in Spain,” he said. “There
was too much of everything and there is still too much of
everything.”  Spain’s construction industry won’t pick up “even a
little” before 2015, Fernandez predicted. “I need business
here to come back because my future will be very bleak if it
doesn’t.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ; 