-- Spanish Bonds Slump as Marchers Plan Further Protests
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-09-26T17:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/spanish-bonds-slump-as-marchers-plan-further-protests.html
Spanish bond yields climbed the
most this month as a second night of violent protests loomed
amid sparring over the police response to clashes in  Madrid .  Spain’s 10-year benchmark yield rose above 6 percent,
approaching the levels seen before European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  offered to buy struggling nations’ debt.
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  told the Wall Street Journal in
comments confirmed by his office that he would “100 percent”
seek a rescue if borrowing costs stayed “too high.”  Protesters started gathering in Madrid for a second day
while workers staged a general strike in  Athens  to protest
austerity measures at ground zero of  Europe ’s financial crisis.
Police fired tear gas near the Greek Parliament after
demonstrators threw fire bombs.  Rajoy’s efforts to restore investor confidence suffered a
new setback yesterday when Catalan President Artur Mas called
early elections to push for “self-determination” for the
country’s largest region. His gambit added a new front to
Rajoy’s battles to push the deepest budget cuts on record with
unemployment at 25 percent and the economy in recession.  “The negative newsflow on Spain is gaining momentum,”
said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank
AG in  London . “The protests will definitely add to the
pressure, but negative news regarding the regions pose a bigger
risk.”  The slump in Spanish bonds sent the yield to 6.06 percent,
up 32 basis points, at 5:55 p.m. in Madrid. The benchmark Ibex
stock index slid 3.9 percent.  Anarchist Rally  Protesters started gathering near Parliament at about 7
p.m. in Madrid after clashes with police late yesterday at the
same site. The anarchist union CNT had already planned a
demonstration and protesters from yesterday’s march urged allies
today to join it via Twitter and Facebook.  Rajoy, speaking at a conference in  New York , played down
the demonstrations, saying the “immense majority” of Spaniards
are aren’t on the streets. At least 6,000 protesters marched in
Madrid late yesterday, according to government estimates, to
oppose budget cuts and tax increases Rajoy has pursued since
coming to power in December in breach of his campaign pledges.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos is set to present tomorrow
a reform package pledged to European peers and Budget Minister
Cristobal Montoro announces the 2013 budget.  Spain , which got a 100 billion-euro ($128 billion) bailout
for its banks in June, is trying to cut the deficit to 4.5
percent of output next year from 6.3 percent in 2012 even as the
economy is projected to keep shrinking. As part of those
efforts, Rajoy said yesterday he will create an independent
fiscal authority, following European recommendations.  ‘Illegal’ Protest  Opposition politicians accused the police of overreacting
to the protests. Interior Minister Jorge Fernandez Diaz said the
demonstration was an “illegal” effort to occupy Parliament.
People’s Party deputy leader Maria Dolores de Cospedal compared
the demonstration this week to an attempted coup in 1981 when
civil guard officers stormed Parliament.  Socialist lawmaker Eduardo Madina said police used
“excessive” force and Cayo Lara, head of the United Left
party, called for an investigation into the police response as
he said video images indicated police may have infiltrated the
crowd. Officers acted “splendidly,” Diaz said.  Rajoy, who is in New York at the  United Nations  this week,
is also facing criticism from European peers over his foot-
dragging on whether to seek a bailout that would allow the ECB
to buy the nation’s bonds. Rajoy made his debut at the UN
General Assembly yesterday, speaking to an almost empty room at
9 p.m. between speeches from the leaders of  Uganda  and Timor
Este. His 14-page speech didn’t mention the crisis.  Rajoy’s ‘Respect’  The premier hasn’t responded to the protests or to the
Catalan call for early elections except to express “respect”
for the regional government in Barcelona. Mas’s move to call
elections just two years after coming to power follows a meeting
with Rajoy last week when the premier rejected his proposal to
let the region keep more of its  tax revenue .  Catalan nationalists are pressing for more autonomy as
austerity measures erode their willingness to subsidize poorer
Spanish regions. Locked out of debt markets and unable to meet
redemptions, Catalonia has tapped the central government’s
regional bailout fund for 5 billion euros. The northern region,
which had a parliament as early as the 13th century and uses its
own language, accounts for a fifth of the Spanish economy and is
home to some of its biggest companies.  “Spain is increasingly slipping out of his hands,”
opposition Socialist leader Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba said of
Rajoy today in Parliament. “There are clear fractures in Spain
and the one I’m most worried about is social fracture.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  