-- Sparx to Start Japan Property Fund on Sovereign-Fund Mandate
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-09-26T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/sparx-to-start-japan-property-fund-on-sovereign-fund-mandate.html
Sparx Group Co. (8739) , a Japanese  asset
management company , will start a fund that will invest in the
nation’s residential properties after receiving money from a
sovereign wealth fund in the  Middle East .  Sparx will start the fund with  AD Investment Management Co. ,
which manages a real estate investment trust, on Sept. 28 with
initial capital of about 9 billion yen ($116 million), said
Sparx Chief Executive Officer Shuhei Abe. The fund, which will
last for five years, has a maximum capacity of 40 billion yen
and will invest in six apartment developments in Tokyo and
Nagoya, he said.  The company, whose assets have dropped more than 77 percent
since a peak in 2006, is widening offerings beyond equity-
related products as Abe tries to bring his firm back to
 profitability  and capitalize on what it expects will be a 
recovery in Japan’s property market.  Land prices  dropped at a 
slower pace for a third year as low  interest rates  and tax 
incentives supported housing demand, a government report earlier 
this month showed.  “Japan’s property market is starting to show signs of a
turnaround, yet only a limited number of investors are actually
starting to invest in the market,” Abe said yesterday in an
interview in Tokyo. “That means, we can offer decent returns
based on high-quality assets by entering the market now.”  Of the 9 billion yen initial capital, 2.6 billion yen will
come from a sovereign wealth fund, which Abe declined to
identify, and AD Investment. The rest will be debt, he said.
Management fees on the fund are higher than the average earned
for other products, he said, declining to elaborate.  Government Mandate  The Tokyo-based company said earlier this month it will
build a mega-solar power plant in southern  Japan  after winning a
contract from the  Tokyo Metropolitan Government  in June to start
an infrastructure fund that will invest in the nation’s
renewable energy industry.  Sparx last year tied up with  Kachikaihatsu Co. (3010) , a Tokyo-
based property company, which operates the Best Western hotel
brand in Japan, for its first hotel fund that was aimed at
providing lodging for relief workers and volunteers following
the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.  The company posted a net loss of 4.54 billion yen in the 12
months ended March 31, compared with a 3.7 billion yen loss a
year earlier, even after it cut employee pay and relocated to
less expensive offices in  Tokyo . Assets under management stood
at 455 billion yen in August compared with an August 2006 peak
of 2 trillion yen.  “We hope that we can build on these funds so that we can
eventually earn management fees and return to profitability
again,” Abe said.  Shares of Sparx declined 3.2 percent to 4,985 yen at the
close of trading on the Jasdaq exchange in Tokyo yesterday. The
stock has fallen 7 percent this year, compared with the 6.8
percent advance by the Jasdaq index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 