-- Standard Life Fund to Buy More Property Stocks to Boosts Returns
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-09-26T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/standard-life-fund-to-buy-more-property-stocks-to-boosts-returns.html
Standards Life Investments ,
Edinburgh’s largest fund manager, plans to buy more real estate
stocks in the U.S. and Asia and sell some properties in Brazil
and Poland to improve the performance of one of its funds.  The firm’s 522 million-pound ($849 million)  Select Property
Fund (SLPRORI) , which invests in stocks and buildings, cut the proportion
of its money invested in listed companies to 33 percent at the
end of July from 44 percent a year earlier,  Andrew Jackson , head
of wholesale and publicly traded property funds, said by phone.  “We reduced our listed real estate holdings gradually over
the last year as the sector rallied,” Jackson said. “In the
U.K., most of the good news is now priced in.”  While the fund’s mix of assets is designed to reduce
volatility, it risks lagging behind those that invest either in
property stocks or the buildings themselves.  The MSCI World Real Estate Index gained 26 percent in the
past 12 months as investors turned to property as an alternative
to  government bonds  as a source of income. The  total return  on
offices, retail properties and warehouses for that period was
9.8 percent in local currency terms, as the slowing global
economy hurt demand for space, according to Investment Property
Databank Ltd., a London-based research firm.  Mixed Returns  The Standard Life fund ranks first among 19 U.K. mutual
funds that invest directly in property over 12 months, and ninth
of 16 over three years as of Sept. 24, according to research
company Morningstar Inc. It ranks last over one year of 25 funds
that invest only in securities and 16th of 23 over three years,
Morningstar said.  The fund returned 7 percent over the past 12 months and
almost 18 percent over three years, compared with the average
one-year return of almost 22 percent and 26 percent over three
years for property stock funds, the data show.  The Standard Life Global REIT fund, which only invests in
listed real estate stocks and is also managed by Jackson, ranks
eighth over one year and 10th over three years against the same
group of funds investing in property stocks, Morningstar said.  “We should see that performance continuing,” Jackson
said. “We are benefiting from some good calls.”  Warehouses in Poland and the Czech Republic accounted for
about 95 million pounds, or more than 18 percent, of the Select
Property Fund’s assets at the end of July, its biggest single
investment, according to the fund factsheet. It had about 46
million pounds invested in Brazilian offices. The fund is close
to completing the sale of some Polish properties, he said.  Equal Split  The plan is to bring the fund back into its long-term 50-50
split between stocks and properties, said Jackson, 43.  The  money manager  is positive on  Hong Kong , Australian and
U.S. commercial property, adding to holdings in  Henderson Land
Development Co. (12) ,  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , New World
Development Co. and  Swire Properties Ltd. (1972)  In Australia, he likes
 Westfield Group (WDC) , the world’s largest shopping mall operator, as
it has half its business in the U.S. and is cheaper to buy than
 Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the fund’s largest stock holding.
Simon, Westfield and Sun Hung Kai were the biggest holdings in
the Global REIT fund as at July 31.  “Australian  interest rates  have come down, which is
usually good” for real estate investment trusts, Jackson said.  As well as Simon, the largest U.S. mall owner, the fund is
also invested in  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , another mall
owner, which emerged from bankruptcy in 2010.  Sustainable Recovery  Simon has risen 34 percent over the past year. General
Growth has fallen 8.6 percent since Sept. 10, when the company
rejected proposals by  Bill Ackman  to put itself up for sale.
That’s reduced its gain over the past six months to 14 percent.  The fund now has less than normal invested in stocks in
both the U.K. and Europe, Jackson said. In the U.K., Jackson cut
holdings in  Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) ,  British Land Co. (BLND)  and
 Hammerson Plc (HMSO) , the country’s three largest real estate
investment trusts, in the past month.  Elsewhere in Europe, Jackson likes Unibail-Rodamco SA,
Europe’s largest REIT, and  Klepierre SA (LI) , the Paris-based
shopping-center landlord 27 percent owned by Simon. He also
favors German residential developer  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI)  and
recently bought back into  Fabege AB (FABG) , a Swedish developer.  “We will buy across the piece,” Jackson said. “Some will
be in  Asia , some in the U.S., which are the markets we are most
focused on. We still think there is some good value in these
overseas markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 