-- Statoil May Order Tailored Rigs to Combat High Norway Costs
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-09-26T09:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/statoil-may-order-tailored-rigs-to-combat-high-norway-costs-1-.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s biggest oil
and gas producer, may order additional new-build drilling rigs
specially designed for its activities off the country’s coast in
an effort to combat rising costs and a capacity shortage.  Since July 2011, Statoil has awarded  Songa Offshore SE (SONG) 
contracts for four new semi-submersible rigs tailored to its
needs on eight-year charters valued at more than $5 billion. The
oil producer may order more of the so-called “category D”
rigs, Torgeir Loeland, Statoil’s head of rig strategy and
procurement, said in an interview in Oslo yesterday.  “When we’ve spent time and effort ordering four, it gives
us a drive to do more,” Loeland said. Building the new rigs
according to strict technical and safety requirements in  Norway 
is cheaper than adapting existing units from elsewhere, he said.  Drilling costs in Norway doubled between 2000 and 2010 and
are now as much as 45 percent higher than in the neighboring
U.K., a government-commissioned report showed last month.  Norway needs to simplify rules for offshore rigs and reduce
labor costs to address the issue and support efforts to increase
oil production, which has almost halved during the last decade,
the report said.  Norway’s Oil Minister Ola Borten Moe this month ruled out
rules to curb wage growth and said any reduction in drilling
costs would have to be achieved through innovation and
technological improvements.  Contract Awards  Statoil will also award contracts for at least two new
“category J” jack-up rigs before the end of the year,
according to Loeland. The company may take an ownership stake in
those rigs, and may also do the same if it decides to order more
“category D” rigs, he said, without providing details.  The new rigs will also help rejuvenate the fleet in Norway,
Loeland said. “We’re not reaching our goals with many of the
older rigs,” he said.  The Stavanger-based company this year awarded  Aker
Solutions ASA (AKSO)  a $1.9 billion contract for a “category B” rig
that is specially tailored for increased oil recovery. It also
signed agreements with Island Offshore Management AS and Eide
Marine Services AS, valued at $9.4 billion, for three “category
A” light well intervention ships.  Shares in Statoil have  increased 26 percent  during the last
12 months, outperforming a 13 percent gain in the oil price.
Statoil traded 2 percent lower at 150.5 kroner as of 11:24 a.m.
in Oslo, while oil for November delivery was 0.7 weaker at
$90.73 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Statoil was downgraded to  sell from buy  at Nordea Markets,
the broker said in an e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  