-- Mauritius’s State Bank Gains Most in 4 Months on Profit Gain
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-09-26T11:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/state-bank-of-mauritius-s-profit-rises-30-as-loans-increase.html
State Bank of Mauritius Ltd. , the
country’s second-biggest lender by market value, headed for the
biggest gain in more than four months after saying full-year
profit climbed 30 percent.  The  stock  rose 1.2 percent, the biggest daily gain since
May 16, to 83 rupees by the close in  Port Louis . That’s the
highest since July 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  SBM, as the city-based lender is known, said today net
income for the year through June rose to 2.62 billion rupees
($86.2 million) from 2.01 billion rupees a year earlier,
according to a  statement  published on the Stock Exchange of
Mauritius’s website. Interest income advanced to 5.9 billion
rupees from 4.9 billion rupees. The lender announced a dividend
payout of 3.50 rupees, 17 percent higher than a year earlier, it
said in a separate statement.  “It’s an improvement in core business and efficiency
gains,” said Bhavik Desai, a research analyst at Axys
Stockbroking Ltd., in a phone interview today. “It’s positive.
I’m not sure it can be replicated next year because of the
difficult domestic economic environment.”  Mauritius’s $10-billion economy will expand 3.3 percent
this year, slower than a 3.8 percent forecast made in March, the
Bank of Mauritius said Sept. 24. Central bank Governor
Rundheersing Bheenick said yesterday there had been an increase
in non-performing loans in the construction and tourism
industries.  SBM’s loans and advances to customers rose 9.7 percent to
62.3 billion rupees during the year, according to the statement,
whilst cost to income ratio decreased to 34.6 percent from 38.5
percent.  “Further headway is expected with respect to SBM’s
geographical diversification strategy” in Africa and  Asia  in
the next 18 months, the lender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  