-- Stephen Fry Triumphs in ‘Twelfth Night’ Stage Comeback
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-09-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/stephen-fry-triumphs-in-twelfth-night-stage-comeback.html
Strutting around in yellow
stockings as Malvolio, Stephen Fry has conquered the dejection
and doubts that wrecked his last appearance on the  London  stage.  He’s starring, with  Mark Rylance  as Olivia, in “Twelfth
Night” at Shakespeare’s Globe -- a six-week run that instantly
sold out. It’s been trumpeted as London’s theatrical event of
the year.  Normally, you can get to stand in the replica half-timbered
theater for five pounds ($8). In this case, expect to pay 50
pounds or more on EBay for the privilege.  Fry’s previous appearance on the boards in 1995 was a
stage-fright disaster. He pulled out of Simon Gray’s “Cell
Mates” after a few days, scuppering the play. Since then he’s
stuck to writing, radio, film, television and accumulating more
than 4.8 million followers on Twitter.  Critics aren’t invited to the Globe. We’re supposed to wait
patiently until the production transfers to the  West End  in
November -- but I’d bought a ticket as a backup.  Though we’re only a couple of shows into the run, Fry’s
already come into his own. He delivers a likeable portrayal of
the bookish steward driven slightly crazy by ambition and love.  Soon Malvolio is prancing around self-confidently. Fry has
good comic timing, talking about how, in boredom, he used to
“wind up my watch, or play with my --" (suitably long pause for
laughter) “some rich jewel.”  All-Male Cast  Director Tim Carroll’s revival has a Shakespearean all-male
cast, which makes the plot even more absurd. Johnny Flynn plays
a woman (Viola) pretending to be a man (Cesario).  As Fabian remarks, “If this were played upon a stage now,
I could condemn it as an improbable fiction.”  Rylance is suitably frosty reprising his part as a white-
faced  Olivia . His achievement is impressive because he is
playing it back-to-back with Richard III, also in an all-male
Carroll-directed version at the  Globe  before a move to the
 Apollo Theatre  in November. His memory is prodigious: The roles
have as much dialogue as his very different leading characters 
in “ Jerusalem ” and “La Bete.”  There’s also authentic music, dancing and a closing song by
Feste the fool, “for the rain it raineth every day.” That’s
always apt for outdoor theater in drizzly  England , currently
suffering floods.  So far the weather hasn’t damped Fry’s show, and the
forecast is improving.  Rating: ****.  “Twelfth Night” is at Shakespeare’s Globe, 21 New Globe
Walk, Bankside, SE1 9DT. Performances are supported by 
UBS Wealth. Information:  http://www.shakespearesglobe.com , 
+44-20-7902-1400.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Scott Reyburn 
on the art market,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and  Laurie
Muchnick  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 