-- Sumatra Quake in April Tied to Sea Floor Changes
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-09-26T17:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/sumatra-quake-in-april-tied-to-sea-floor-changes.html
An April earthquake near the island
of Sumatra resulted from as many as five faults in the tectonic
plate that serves as the floor of the  Indian Ocean , according to
researchers that say the geologic event may show the massive
slab of rock is splitting into two.  A fault is a fracture that can push upward causing
mountains, downward causing oceans or even side-to-side as the
tectonic plate floats on a lower layer of molten rock. In the
past, scientists didn’t know that a series of faults could act
in concert, in this case sliding sideways, spurring a dangerous
8.7 magnitude quake, but no tsunami, the wall of ocean water
that can result from such an occurrence.  The faults tied to the earthquake may become part of a
boundary as the  Indo-Australian plate  splits, according to
papers published today in the  journal Nature . The finding may
also help scientists better understand  the San Andreas fault  in
 California , which moves similarly, the researchers said.  “For decades, we’ve known this Indo-Australian plate is
deforming internally and it’s not really acting like a rigid
body,” said  Keith Koper , a study author and an associate
professor of geophysics at the University of Utah, in a
telephone interview. “We think this will ultimately become a
plate boundary, but we have to see what the earth decides.”  The Sumatra quake occurred on April 11, running for 2
minutes and 40 seconds. If each of the individual faults had
spurred a quake on their own, none would have been as big, the
research found. A fifth fault that broke open later caused a
magnitude-8.2 aftershock.  Rare Force  An earthquake of magnitude 8.0 or greater is rare and can
totally destroy anything near the epicenter, according to the
 U.S. Geological Survey . The east coast earthquake last year, of
5.8 magnitude, was almost 800 times weaker than the one in the
ocean, since the scale, which goes to 10, increases
logarithmically.  Because the plates didn’t move up or down in the Sumatra
quake, ocean water wasn’t greatly displaced and no tsunami
occurred, Koper said.  This was key in an area in which more than 170,000 people
had died or went missing in 2004 as the result of a tsunami
spurred by a similar-sized event. After the April quake, local
officials canceled a tsunami alert within about four hours and
it was linked to only about a dozen deaths, mostly from heart
attacks,  Bloomberg News  reported at the time.  Three of the faults, which ranged from about 90 miles long
to 120 miles, were laid out in parallel, the other was
perpendicular and, at one point, crossed one of the others in an
unusual pattern, Koper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  