-- Swiss Stocks Drop the Most in Three Weeks; Myriad Tumbles
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-09-26T15:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/swiss-stocks-drop-the-most-in-three-weeks-myriad-tumbles.html
Swiss stocks  fell the most in three
weeks after Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President
 Charles Plosser  said the latest round of quantitative easing may
not boost growth or hiring in the world’s largest economy.  Myriad Group AG (MYRN)  plunged to the lowest price on record after
the  software developer  reported a wider first-half loss and
unveiled a rights offer. Dufry AG, the operator of Hudson News
stores in airports, lost 7.9 percent after  UBS AG (UBSN)  lowered its
recommendation for the stock.  The Swiss Market Index dropped 1.1 percent to 6,540.41 at
the close in Zurich, after rising yesterday to the highest since
March 1, 2011. The gauge has still  rallied 14 percent  from this
year’s low on June 4 as the Fed and  European Central Bank 
started bond-buying programs. The broader Swiss Performance
Index also slipped 1.1 percent today.  “Sentiment in equity markets is deteriorating somewhat
after all major central banks have delivered on their promises
and done their part,” said Alessandro Fezzi, senior market
analyst at LGT Capital Management AG in Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland .
“I think markets have entered a consolidation phase and it will
need better-than-expected economic data to support the stock
market.”  Plosser said late yesterday that new bond buying announced
by the Fed this month probably won’t boost growth or hiring and
may jeopardize the central bank’s credibility.  Quantitative Easing  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said on Sept. 13 that it
will undertake a third round of quantitative easing by
purchasing mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion
per month until labor markets “improve substantially.”  In Spain, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has struggled to
persuade people to accept the deepest austerity measures on
record. Unions and protest groups, spurred by the Portuguese
government’s decision to drop a planned tax increase following
demonstrations, have demanded a referendum on Rajoy’s cuts.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos will present additional
measures tomorrow that the European Commission requires as part
of efforts to bring down Spain’s borrowing costs. Budget
Minister Cristobal Montoro will unveil the 2013 budget.  Myriad plunged 14 percent to 2.09 Swiss francs, its lowest
price since selling shares to the public in September 2005. The
company reported a  first-half net loss  of $23.3 million,
compared with a net loss of $4.6 million a year earlier. Myriad
said it will raise 10 million francs ($10.7 million) in a fully
underwritten rights issue. The company also said Chief Executive
Officer Simon Wilkinson resigned.  Dufry, UBS  Dufry (DUFN)  tumbled 7.9 percent to 111.9 francs, its largest
decline since September 2011. UBS downgraded the shares of the
operator of duty-free shops to neutral from buy.  UBS slid 4.3 percent to 11.55 francs, contributing the most
to the SMI’s loss.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-largest
lender, tumbled 4.2 percent to 20.20 francs, the deepest slump
since June 14. The bank is considering combining its asset-
management unit with the private and investment-banking
divisions, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Georg Fischer AG (FI/N)  retreated 2.1 percent to 340.5 francs.
Torsten Wyss, an analyst at UBS, cut his price estimate for
Europe’s biggest maker of iron castings for cars by 8 percent to
460 francs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  