-- U.K. Seeks to Use Climate Funds to Spur Kenyan Geothermal
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-09-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/u-k-seeks-to-use-climate-funds-to-spur-kenyan-geothermal.html
The U.K. government plans to spur
use of Britain’s green technology and financial expertise for
geothermal and wind power projects in Ethiopia,  Kenya  and
Tanzania by tapping billions of pounds of state funds.  Energy and Climate Change Minister  Greg Barker  said he will
head a trade delegation, including 30 executives from 19 U.K.
companies, to the East African countries from Oct. 1 to 5. The
markets have the potential to develop more than 15,000 megawatts
of geothermal power, as well as wind and hydropower, he said.  The low-carbon industry, including renewable generation and
energy efficiency, is expected to be worth 4 trillion pounds
($6.5 trillion) by 2015, the minister said, and he wants  London 
to remain the global center for raising “green finance.”  “There’s a huge opportunity here to use the climate change
agenda to drive investment and growth,” Barker said. “I’m
looking to identify projects where a small investment of money
from the international climate funds can trigger much larger
flows of private sector capital into these new markets.”  The U.K. will aim to use its 3 billion-pound International
Climate Fund to spur private investment instead of relying only
on aid to finance low-carbon generation in  Africa . Such plans
will help developed nations meet a pledge to increase world
climate funding to $100 billion a year from 2020, he said.  Development and green charities say $100 billion is too low
to help the poorest countries adapt to the ravages of  climate
change . Oxfam has said the pledge needs to be doubled, while WWF
and Greenpeace have said much of the spending should come from
states because private investment flows are too unpredictable.  Aviation Tax  Campaign groups have said an emissions tax on international
shipping and aviation would be a potential source of funding.  Bunge Ltd.’s Climate Change Capital, an investor in
greenhouse-gas credits, Parhelion Underwriting Ltd., a carbon-
credit insurer, the building and engineering consultant Parsons
Brinckerhoff Ltd., and  Cluff Geothermal Ltd.  will join Barker.  Cluff Geothermal Managing Director George Percy said the
minister can lobby Kenya to bring more “clarity” to laws and
make power-purchase deals less “expensive and time-consuming.”  “We want a more streamlined approach and more clarity from
the outset,” Percy said in a phone interview. Cluff is bidding
with  TransCentury Ltd. (TCL) , a Nairobi-based infrastructure company,
for a geothermal energy contract in Kenya’s Menengai region.  Kenya has capacity to provide 7,000 to 10,000 megawatts of
geothermal energy, mainly in the Rift Valley, the U.K. energy
department says. Tanzania could generate 650 megawatts of power
from the Earth’s heat, while Ethiopia has the potential for
5,000 megawatts of geothermal energy, 10,000 megawatts of wind
power and 45,000 megawatts of hydroelectricity, it says.  China, Japan  “The Kenyan, Tanzanian and Ethiopian governments will
probably be more familiar with German, Japanese and Chinese
companies in these sectors, and I’m very much going out there in
order to put U.K. companies on the map,” Barker said.  Developed nations including the U.K. and U.S. pledged in
December 2009 to help raise $100 billion a year from 2020 to
finance developments that will cut  carbon emissions  and help
poorer countries adapt to the effects of climate change.  A three-year period that sought to plow $30 billion of so-
called fast-start finance into climate projects will end in
December, and countries at United Nations climate talks have yet
to explain how they’ll ramp up aid to meet the 2020 pledge.  “We’re committed to mobilizing that $100 billion figure
but the delivery will come from both public and private
sector,” the minister said in the interview. “Smart strategic
use of public funds can mobilize a much larger amount.”  Pre-Eminent Center  Gentoo Group Ltd., Temporis Capital LLP, Arup Group Ltd.
and Aldwych International Ltd. will also join the delegation.
Delegates expect to meet officials including Tanzanian Prime
Minister Mizengo Kayanza Peter Pinda, Kenyan Prime Minister
 Raila Odinga , and energy and finance ministers from all three
nations on the intinerary, according to Barker’s department.  “More money was raised out of London in the last 12 months
to fund international renewable projects than any other
financial center,” he said. “I want London to continue to be
the pre-eminent center for raising that finance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 