-- U.K. Secured Loans to Households Jumps on BOE Credit Program
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-09-26T08:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/u-k-secured-loans-to-households-jumps-on-boe-credit-program-1-.html
Secured credit to U.K. households
rose “significantly” in the latest three months and a further
increase is expected, thanks to the Bank of England’s Funding
for Lending Scheme, the central bank said in a report today.  A gauge of availability rose to 21.9 from minus 4.1 in the
second quarter, the central bank in  London  said in its credit
conditions survey. The index of expected supply in the fourth
quarter was 36.1.  The Bank of England opened its Funding for Lending Scheme
at the beginning of last month with the aim of getting the
economy moving by boosting credit to companies and households.
The bank said yesterday U.K. lenders may be able to borrow an
initial 61 billion pounds ($98 billion) under the program.  “Lenders commented that the Funding for Lending Scheme
should help to improve the availability of secured credit to
households,” today’s report said. “One element of the increase
in availability was an expected tightening of spreads on secured
lending to households over the next three months” after a
widening in the latest three months.  Unsecured credit to households was predicted to increase
“slightly,” although companies will see no change in the
amount available, the bank said.  Lenders reported that demand for prime loans for buying
homes had increased “slightly” in the latest period and was
expected to continue to do so in the coming quarter, according
to the survey, which was conducted between Aug. 14 and Sept. 4.  Credit Program  Under the Funding for Lending Scheme, a bank can initially
borrow treasury bills valued at 5 percent of their outstanding
loans, plus any expansion of its lending during a reference
period from that date to the end of 2013.  The program is aimed at reducing the cost of borrowing and
is the latest in a series of measures introduced to help the
economy fend off contagion from the turmoil in the euro area.
Banks have been able to borrow treasury bills from the  Bank of
England  since Aug. 1 to fund lending into the economy, and the
central bank has said its new lending plan could boost credit to
companies and households by at least 80 billion pounds.  Lenders said demand for credit from small and large
companies had fallen and was expected to remain unchanged in the
fourth quarter. Demand from medium-sized firms was unchanged and
was predicted to increase slightly in the coming period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London, England at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  