-- U.K. Inside-Trading Suspects Said to Face Charge Decision
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-09-26T17:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/u-k-inside-trading-suspects-said-to-face-charge-decision.html
Four people arrested by Britain’s
financial regulator as part of its highest-profile insider-
trading investigation, including a former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
managing director, may learn next week whether they’ll be
charged, according to two people familiar with the probe.  Prosecutors’ decision on Martyn Dodgson, who was employed
by Deutsche Bank at the time of his arrest, and three others
comes more than two-and-a-half years after the  Financial
Services Authority  arrested seven people and raided 16 addresses
in  London  and southeast  England  in March 2010. Two more suspects
were arrested later.  All four won’t necessarily be charged on Oct. 1 and at
least one is expected to be cleared, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the information isn’t public.
They are all scheduled to appear at police stations that day to
learn the outcome of the investigation. The remaining five will
face charging decisions later. Dodgson is being investigated for
providing tips about upcoming securities sales.  Those arrested in 2010 include Dodgson, Julian Rifat of
Moore Capital Management LLC, Clive Roberts, the head of
European sales trading at Exane BNP Paribas, Novum Securities
Ltd.’s Graeme Shelley and Iraj Parvizi, a director at Aria
Capital Ltd. Rifat isn’t expected to face a charging decision
next week, according to one of the people.  The investigation is code-named Tabernula, Latin for little
tavern, and is focused on whether the men engaged in the front-
running of block trades. Investigators are seeking to determine
if the suspects profited by using knowledge of upcoming
securities sales, generally on behalf of a client.  Significant Profits  “It is believed that the city professionals passed inside
information to traders -- either directly or via middlemen --who
traded on this information and have made significant profits as
a result,” the FSA said at the time of the first arrests in the
case.  Dodgson was a member of a group of about 12 bankers at
Deutsche Bank who advised the U.K. government on its stakes in
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   “Deutsche Bank cooperated fully with the authorities in
their investigation into this matter,” the bank said in an e-
mailed statement. “The investigation concerned one individual,
Martyn Dodgson, and not the bank itself.”  The FSA won a case against six men in July in the largest
 insider-trading  prosecution it’s brought so far. The defendants
were found guilty of profiting from trading on inside
information taken from the print rooms for UBS AG and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. In another recent FSA case, former Dresdner
Kleinwort banker Christian Littlewood and his wife were ordered
to pay 1.6 million pounds ($2.6 million) after they were found
guilty of insider trading.  More Searches  The regulator conducted more searches in April 2011 and
arrested a man in the case. A ninth suspect, Paul Milsom, then a
trader at  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) ’s investment-management arm,
was arrested by the FSA in February. An office and home in
London and a residence in Kent were searched at the time.  Front-running is a practice in which a trader takes a
position to capitalize on advance knowledge of a transaction
large enough to influence the price of securities. Bankers often
alert select money managers to planned sales of securities
before companies publicly disclose them. The guidance they get
from fund managers helps underwriters measure demand for the
securities so they can price them properly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  