-- U.S. Army General Accused of Sexual Misconduct
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-09-26T23:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/u-s-army-general-accused-of-sexual-misconduct.html
U.S. Army Brigadier General Jeffrey
Sinclair, an officer with 27 years of military service including
tours in Iraq and  Afghanistan , was charged today with multiple
counts of sexual misconduct and filing of false claims.  The charges include forced sex, engaging in “inappropriate
relationships” prohibited by regulations, possession of
pornographic material and misusing a government charge card, the
U.S. Army said in a statement today.  Sinclair currently serves as a special assistant to the
commanding general of the Army’s XVIII Airborne Corps in Fort
Bragg,  North Carolina , according to the Army. In his most recent
deployment, Sinclair was the deputy commander for support of
Regional Command South in Afghanistan from July 2010 to May
2012, according to the Army.  Sinclair’s decorations include the Legion of Merit and the
Bronze Star Medal, according to his Army biography.  The U.S. military will conduct an Article 32 inquiry,
similar to a grand-jury investigation, to determine the merits
of the charges against Sinclar before proceeding to trial,
according to the Army.  An Army spokesman didn’t immediately reply to an e-mailed
request for contact information on Sinclair or his lawyer.  The most recent court-martial of a U.S. general officer led
to U.S. Army Brigadier General Roger Duff pleading guilty in
June to two charges of false official statements and other
charges of wearing unauthorized ribbons and badges, according to
Army spokesman Colonel Jonathan Withington. Duff was sentenced
to two months confinement and dismissal. The case is pending
post-trial action and the sentence is not final, Withington
said.  In March 1999, Army Major General  David Hale  pled guilty to
seven counts of conduct unbecoming an officer and one count
relating to a false statement about an adulterous relationship,
Withington said in an e-mail. Hale received a reprimand, a fine
and demotion to the rank of a brigadier general, Withington
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  