-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Little Changed as Spain Growth Falls
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-09-26T21:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-little-changed-as-spain-growth-falls.html
A gauge of U.S corporate credit was
little changed as European stocks fell the most in two months on
concern that the sovereign-debt crisis is worsening.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, held at a mid-price of 102.6 basis points at
4:06 p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The index rose as high as 105.5 basis points in
morning trading.  Spain’s central bank said gross domestic product continued
dropping at a “significant pace” this quarter, causing concern
that the financial crisis will infect corporate balance sheets
and impair companies’ ability to repay obligations. The  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  declined 1.8 percent and the  yield  on Spain’s
10-year bonds surged as high as 6.07 percent.  “People expected Europe not to be a problem, that the
central banks would protect us, but I’d say they are very
complacent,” Stephen Antczak,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s New York-based
head of U.S. credit strategy, said in a telephone interview.
“There’s still a fair amount of risk out there from earnings to
the fiscal cliff to Europe and that affects the credit markets
as a whole.”  RadioShack Swaps  The credit swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Credit swaps tied to  RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  rose 1.6 percentage
points to 36.6 percent upfront as of 4:30 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year,
meaning it would cost $3.66 million initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of RadioShack’s debt for five
years.  RadioShack said today that Chief Executive Officer James Gooch stepped down and was replaced on an interim basis by its
finance chief. The Fort Worth, Texas-based company’s shares have
plummeted 73 percent this year amid weak  consumer spending  and
heightened competition.  Risk Premium  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North America High Yield
Index rose 5.6 basis points to 502.6 basis points, the highest
since Sept. 10, Bloomberg prices show. The measure of
speculative-grade companies’ default risk will begin the switch
to a new series tomorrow, replacing firms that no longer have
appropriate credit grades or that aren’t among the most actively
traded borrowers.  Series 19 of the high-yield index will incorporate credit
swaps tied to  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) ,  Calpine Corp. (CPN)  and a unit of
Charter Communications Inc. that aren’t among the active
contracts reported by the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. The
Federal Reserve’s decision to hold  interest rates  near zero
through 2015 has sapped demand for insurance against companies
missing debt payments and pushed bond yields to record lows.  “I think you’re going to start seeing people stretch for
yield,” Matthew Meyer, vice president and senior portfolio
manager for high-grade fixed income at Loews Corp., said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik
Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “There’s no question it’s tough
to not look around” at riskier assets.  Outgoing Companies  Markit will remove the contracts of  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
Residential Capital LLC and  Pioneer Natural Resources Co. (PXD)  from
the index. Ford and Pioneer were raised to investment grade and
Residential Capital, the mortgage-lending unit of  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY) , filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on May 14. The list of
companies that will comprise the index is provisional until the
publication of a finalized annex, Markit said.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, added 2.17 basis points to 16 basis
points. The measure rises when investors seek the perceived
safety of  government securities  and falls when they favor assets
such as corporate bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  