-- U.S. Homebuilders Tumble on Concern Stock Surge Overdone
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-09-26T20:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/u-s-homebuilders-drop-most-since-june-on-concern-rally-overdone.html
U.S.  homebuilders , whose shares
have more than doubled in the past year, tumbled the most since
June after lower-than-estimated  new-home sales  fueled concern
that the rally may have been overdone.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index
slid 4.2 percent, the biggest decline since June 11. The
Commerce Department said today that August new-home sales fell
0.3 percent to an annual pace of 373,000, compared with the
380,000 median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Homebuilders climbed about five times as much as the  S&P
500 Index (S15HOME)  in the past 12 months as low  interest rates  and a
tightening supply of existing  homes  boosted demand for new
houses after the worst slump since the 1930s. The 11-member S&P
builder index is trading at its most expensive level relative to
the  S&P 500  ever, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “They haven’t been trading on fundamentals,” Michael Widner, a homebuilding analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore, said in a telephone interview. “A lot of great
expectations were priced in and you had a couple of data points
that aren’t supporting the notion that things are
accelerating.”  The S&P homebuilding index has retreated 7.1 percent since
reaching a five-year high on Sept. 21.  KB Home (KBH) , a Los Angeles-
based homebuilder that targets first-time buyers, on that day
surged 16 percent after returning to a profit for its fiscal
third quarter.  Record Premium  The price-to-book value for the homebuilding index reached
1.1 times the S&P 500’s multiple on Sept. 21, a record based on
data going back to December 2001.  During that period, the average ratio between the two
indexes has been 0.6 times, Bloomberg data show. Price-to-book
value, or assets minus liabilities, for the homebuilder index
has surged more than fourfold since 2008, while the valuation
for the S&P 500 increased 51 percent at the same time.  “Early in a recovery, there’s a strong move in stocks,”
Robert Curran, a managing director at  Fitch Ratings  in  New York ,
said in a phone interview. “A lot of it is anticipatory. By
their nature, they often get ahead of themselves to some
degree.”  Joel Locker, an analyst with FBN Securities Inc. in New
York, cut his ratings of  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) ,  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH) 
and the  Ryland Group Inc. (RYL)  to underperform, the equivalent of
sell, on Sept. 24, citing concerns about future profitability in
the face of potential interest rate increases.  60% Overvalued  “Our view is the homebuilding sector is roughly 60 percent
overvalued,” based on a blend of earnings projections and
price-to-book value, Locker wrote. “Sentiment and momentum have
been extremely bullish in the past six months but a modest
deceleration in year-on-year order growth in coming quarters
could send the shares in a tailspin despite generational low
 mortgage rates .”  Barclays Plc lowered D.R. Horton Inc.,  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  and
 Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  to equal weight from overweight yesterday
because the shares reached “uncomfortable” levels.  “The high-quality builder shares are pricing in
perfection,” Stephen Kim, managing director at Barclays in New
York, said in a phone interview. “What’s baked in is a full
recovery that will take prices by 2015 to levels that are at or
above the peak of the bubble. You might get that to happen. Even
if you do, you’re not going to make lot of money in homebuilders
from here.”  Scaling Back  Mike Ashton, portfolio manager with Insight Capital
Research Management Inc. in Walnut Creek,  California , which had
$360 million under management as of June 30, said his fund has
been scaling back homebuilder investments for more than a month.
Insight’s holdings include  D.R. Horton ,  Hovnanian Enterprises
Inc. (HOV) , KB Home, Lennar,  MDC Holdings Inc. (MDC) , PulteGroup and Toll
Brothers, according to an Aug. 14 regulatory filing.  “We got into a lot of them early this year and caught a
lot of the run-up,” Ashton said in a telephone interview. “Now
they’ve basically grown into their valuations.”  The rally is justified because new-home demand is poised to
accelerate, said Jason Benowitz, a portfolio manager for
Roosevelt Investments in New York, which holds stakes in D.R.
Horton and Lennar. August new-home sales climbed 28 percent from
a year earlier after July sales set the highest pace since April
2010, today’s report from the Commerce Department showed. The
 supply  of homes at the current sales rate held at 4.5 months,
the lowest level since 2005.  At Beginning  “You’re right at the beginning of this,” Benowitz said.
“There’s pent-up demand.”  While demand is rising, a so-called shadow inventory of
homes facing foreclosure is poised to hit the market at
discounted prices, threatening a recovery, according to Jack McCabe, a homebuilding consultant in  Deerfield Beach ,  Florida .
He said the industry may be especially hard-hit in states such
as Florida, where Mortgage Bankers Association data show about
563,000 home loans are more than 90 days delinquent. Existing
home prices in the state, while rising, are about half of their
2006 peak, making them far cheaper than new houses, McCabe said.  “You dig underneath the skin and it’s still very, very
troubled,” he said in a telephone interview. “Stocks are
artificially inflated.”  Order Growth  Publicly traded homebuilders have reported sales growth at
a faster pace than the U.S. total figures indicate as demand
recovered in some of the hardest-hit housing markets, such as
 Arizona  and Florida, where they tend to operate, Widner said. At
Lennar, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder, home orders
increased 44 percent for the quarter ended Aug. 31, the Miami-
based company reported this week.  “Housing is undeniably continuing its recovery, but the
homebuilding sector is now trading at valuation levels that are
detached from any reasonable earnings growth scenario,” Wilkes Graham and Ryan Gilbert, analysts at Compass Point Research &
Trading, wrote in a note to clients on Sept. 20. “As such, we
believe there is a tangible level of irrational exuberance built
into current homebuilder valuation levels as investors flock to
the most direct recipients of the housing recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  