-- U.S. Banks’ Leverage Should Be Halved to Cut Risks, Bair Says
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-09-26T17:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/u-s-banks-leverage-should-be-halved-to-cut-risks-bair-says.html
Banks should be required to reduce
by half the amount they can borrow against equity to make the
financial system safer, according to former Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair .  Bair called for a “hard-and-fast” leverage ratio of 8
percent in “Bulls by the Horns,” her memoir of the financial
crisis published this month. That’s double the 4 percent ratio
U.S. banks must adhere to currently and more than twice the 3
percent called for by new global rules on bank capital.  Lenders could borrow about 13 times their equity, based on
Bair’s suggestion, compared with 25 times under existing U.S.
rules. Bair, 58, who stepped down from the FDIC last year, was a
proponent of the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
introducing a simple leverage ratio, which ignores the riskiness
of different loans in setting minimum capital requirements.
While the Basel committee agreed on including such a ratio,
European countries have balked at implementation.  “Right now, the regulators are mostly unified on the need
to raise  capital requirements ,” Bair wrote in her book.
“However, looking back at the battles I fought before the
crisis, when it seemed as though everyone except the FDIC wanted
to lower capital requirements, I’m wary that this regulatory
resolve will hold.”  Bair said the leverage cap should apply to any financial
institution with assets exceeding $50 billion, including  hedge
funds , insurance companies and brokerages. While the book
doesn’t specify how this ratio should be calculated, Bair
clarified in an e-mail that the new Basel standards of capital
and total assets should be used.  Narrowed Definition  The Basel committee narrowed the definition of what counts
as capital. It also devised a method of tallying assets for
calculating leverage ratio that puts aside the different
accounting standards used in the U.S. and  Europe . The new method
would increase the balance sheets of U.S. banks because of
differences in how derivatives are treated.  Using Basel’s narrower capital definition, the two largest
U.S. banks would have to raise about $100 billion of capital to
comply with Bair’s leverage recommendation.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
would have a leverage ratio of 5.8 percent under the new capital
definition, and No. 2  Bank of America Corp. ’s would be 5.9
percent. Neither bank has yet reported what their ratios would
be under the new Basel method of calculating assets.  Simple Leverage  Thomas Hoenig , appointed to FDIC’s board after Bair’s
departure, has called for scrapping Basel capital rules
completely. In a speech this month, Hoenig offered a way of
calculating simple leverage ratios that ignores risk weightings
and suggested 10 percent as a reasonable minimum. To reach
Hoenig’s requirements, the four largest U.S. banks would have to
sell more than $300 billion of new stock, or not distribute
dividends for the next five and a half years.  The FDIC, the  Federal Reserve  and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency are implementing the new Basel
rules. While the Basel committee brings together regulators and
central bankers from 27 countries, its rules aren’t binding on
member countries. Each nation will have to translate the
internationally agreed standards into their own regulatory
frameworks.  Senators’ Letter  In a letter to the Fed last month, U.S. Senators David Vitter, a Republican from  Louisiana , and  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio
Democrat, urged regulators to go beyond Basel’s minimum ratios
and demand higher capital from the largest banks. They said that
in the 1920s and 1930s, big banks funded their assets with 15
percent to 20 percent equity.  The European Union, as it moves to implement the Basel
rules, has wavered on leverage, saying it needs to study the
potential impact before committing. The leverage ratio would
force  European banks  to raise additional capital at a time when
they’re struggling with a sovereign-debt crisis.  “Europeans’ failure to have a leverage ratio is why
they’ve had more problems than us,” Bair said in an interview
last week. “How much leverage French and German banks have is
astounding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or @yalman_bn on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 