-- Hungary Cuts Rate Again as Decision Polarizes Rate Body
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-09-26T09:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/hungary-cuts-rate-again-as-decision-polarizes-rate-body.html
Hungary ’s second interest-rate cut
in as many months shows Premier  Viktor Orban ’s allies have
isolated central bank President Andras Simor and chosen economic
growth over inflation, according to analysts from  London  to
Budapest.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  reduced the two-week deposit rate
to 6.5 percent from 6.75 percent, with a “tight majority” over
a proposal for no change, Simor told reporters in Budapest
yesterday. A further lowering of rates may be considered, the
bank said in a statement.  Simor is losing control over monetary policy after already
opposing the first rate cut since April 2010 in August, when the
four non-executive members of the Monetary Council, appointed by
Orban’s allies in parliament, backed easing to help an economy
mired in its second recession since 2009. Simor called it
“pointless” with inflation at 6 percent in August, double the
the bank’s target.  “It’s clear Simor is shunned and that the external members
are in control,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based
economist at Erste Group Bank AG, said by phone. “The cuts have
been risky and they have damaged the bank’s credibility.”  The nation’s benchmark rate is still the highest in the
European Union, helping to prop up the forint as the government
struggles to obtain a bailout from the  International Monetary
Fund  and the bloc 10 months after requesting aid.  Forint Weakens  The forint, the world’s second-best performer this year
against the euro, has weakened 1.4 percent since last month’s
rate cut. It dropped 0.2 percent from yesterday to 285 per euro
as of 11:25 a.m. in Budapest.  The cost to insure Hungarian debt for five years with
credit default swaps fell to 385 basis points today, compared
with 423 points before the first rate reduction and 630 basis
points on June 5. The yield on the government bond due 2022 rose
4 basis points from yesterday to 7.3 percent.  “The recent improvement in  market sentiment  has given the
four ‘external’ members of the MPC the upper hand in recent
interest-rate decisions,”  Neil Shearing  and  William Jackson ,
economists with Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said in an e-
mailed note.  Leadership Challenged  Simor’s leadership is being contested from within the bank
after two years of government onslaught that aimed to oust him
at first and then to clip his powers. Parliament cut his salary,
stripped him of his right to name rate setters and filled the
majority of the Monetary Council with ruling-party appointees.  The Cabinet had urged a looser monetary policy and
repeatedly called on the central bank to do more to help
economic growth.  While the bank yesterday forecast in a staff report that
 interest rates  would have to be raised from current levels to
meet the  price-growth  goal, the majority of rate-setters said
that “expected developments in inflation and financial markets
as well as persistently weak demand warrant an easing of current
monetary conditions.”  The Monetary Council said the inflation target is “likely
to be met as the direct effects of cost shocks wear off,” in
reference to rising food and fuel prices.  Faster Inflation  The bank yesterday raised its forecast for average
inflation to 5 percent in 2013, up from a 3.5 percent projection
in June. Price growth will average 5.8 percent this year, while
the economy may shrink 1.4 percent and grow 0.7 percent in 2013,
it said.  “The inflation-targeting anchor of the Hungarian monetary
policy has been abandoned and the predictability of policy
decisions damaged,”  Zoltan Torok , a Budapest-based economist at
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , said in an e-mailed note.  The debate over inflation risks isn’t unique to Hungary,
with central banks around the world loosening monetary policy as
the euro-area debt crisis threatens the global economy and
financial stability.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded its asset-purchase fund on Sept.
19, a week after the U.S. Federal Reserve voted to extend its
quantitative-easing program. The  European Central Bank  has
agreed to buy the bonds of governments that accept austerity
conditions to tame the euro turmoil.  ‘Excessive Expansion’  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said Sept. 18 that
“excessive expansion of the  money supply ” on the part of the
ECB may boost inflation.  Bank of England  policy makers on Sept.
19 differed on the need for more stimulus in light of growing
inflation risks.  “I would suggest most central banks are placing a greater
emphasis on growth,” Christian Lawrence, a London-based
strategist at Rabobank International, said by e-mail.  In Hungary’s case, rate cuts aren’t helping growth as the
economy is primarily held back by subdued lending and
investments that are a result of government policies, Simor said
Sept. 13.  As demand for exports wanes in the 17-nation euro region,
the Czech central bank may cut its main rate to 0.25 percent
tomorrow from 0.5 percent, already a record low, while Romanian
policy makers may keep the benchmark rate unchanged at 5.25
percent, median estimates of economists in two Bloomberg surveys
show.  The need to ease Polish monetary policy is “obvious” and
should come as a “cycle,” central bank Governor Marek Belka
was quoted today as saying by the PAP newswire.  Further Reductions  Investors are pricing in more reductions in Hungary.
Forward-rate agreements used to bet on three-month interest
rates in three months were at 6.26 percent after the rate
decision. The contracts traded 58 basis points below the three-
month Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, indicating a year-end
rate of 6 percent.  Yesterday’s rate cut was “confirmation of the Monetary
Policy Council’s division and the external members’ shift from
primary inflation targeting toward growth,”  Eszter Gargyan , a
Budapest-based economist at Citigroup Inc., said by e-mail.  The Orban government’s measures over the last two years,
including a special tax on lenders and the nationalization of
private-pension funds, contributed to a downgrade of Hungary’s
debt rating to junk and a drop in investments.  Negotiations for a loan of about 15 billion euros ($19.4
billion) have been delayed several times because of Orban’s
resistance to adhere to legal and economic conditions set by the
IMF and the EU. An agreement may be reached by November, chief
aid negotiator Mihaly Varga said in an interview published Sept.
22 in the Magyar Nemzet newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  