-- Why Woodrow Wilson Wooed Shoppers and Snubbed Business
-- B y   M a r c   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-09-26T14:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/why-woodrow-wilson-wooed-shoppers-and-snubbed-business.html
In 1912, as in 2012, issues of
personal wealth and corporate power were at the heart of
the presidential campaign.  Food prices were soaring and average families feared
for their  living standards  as they replaced meat and butter
with potatoes and margarine. Hard-pressed workers, often
putting in 56-hour weeks on dangerous jobs, couldn’t help
but envy the conspicuous affluence of a distant elite.  Throughout the campaign, unfairness was a constant
theme: farmers unhappy with railroads, local manufacturers
angry at the emergence of nationwide competitors, and small
shopkeepers claiming chain stores were stealing their
customers all objected to the growing dominance of big
business.  Four candidates were on the ballot. The incumbent,
Republican  William Howard Taft , spoke to populist emotions
by portraying himself as a trustbuster who had stood up
against the monopolists of Standard Oil Co. Taft’s
predecessor and former patron,  Theodore Roosevelt , had
sought the Republican nomination but fallen short; he ran
as the candidate of the Progressive Party, in favor of more
government regulation and taxes on inheritance and income.
Eugene V. Debs was the Socialist candidate for the fourth
consecutive election. And the Democrats nominated New
Jersey Governor  Woodrow Wilson , who had been voicing
suspicion of big business for two decades.  Consumers’ Interests  Wilson may have been the first presidential candidate
to focus on consumers as an interest group. As early as
1898, he had written that “the modern industrial
organization has so distorted competition as sometimes to
put it into the power of some to tyrannize over many.” By
1912, his opinion hadn’t changed. Advised by the famed
Boston attorney Louis Brandeis, a self-styled consumer
advocate, he launched a blistering attack on those who
“have sometimes said that it was absurd to talk about the
consumer in a country where everybody was a producer.”
Consumers’ interests weren’t the same as producers’
interests, he insisted.  Although attacks against trusts and monopolies were
standard fare, served up by all the candidates, Wilson was
alone in drawing links among trusts, tariffs, lack of
competition and rising prices. As he put it when accepting
the nomination in August 1912, “The high cost of living is
arranged by private understanding.”  Among the evils Wilson denounced was price
discrimination -- when a seller charges different prices to
different buyers for an identical product. Although the
label suggests untoward dealings, price discrimination
often makes economic sense: Selling huge volumes to a
single customer will almost always cost a business less per
unit than selling tiny volumes, and price discrimination
lets the customer with the larger order share the
supplier’s saving. But to the owners of small businesses
and the residents of small towns, price discrimination was
a pernicious practice that would leave them forever at a
disadvantage.  The first federal law to regulate the railroad
industry, enacted in 1887, included a strict ban on
discrimination. Yet the railroads could find ways around
the law, and the large companies that increasingly
dominated mining and manufacturing routinely demanded that
their suppliers offer better terms than small competitors
could obtain.  Power of Chains  In retailing, chain stores were increasingly powerful:
257 companies were operating chains in 1910, almost five
times as many as in 1900, and they insisted on volume
discounts from manufacturers, which enabled them to
underprice independent shops.  Complaining that chain stores were selling goods too
cheaply wasn’t an approach calculated to earn sympathy from
the consuming public, so the organizations representing
independent merchants rephrased the problem as one of
discrimination. As the secretary of the National Grocers
Association would explain, “The general working rules
should be, ‘A fair price and the same to everybody.’”  Wilson was in total agreement. If price discrimination
could be stopped, he asserted, “then you have free America,
and I for my part am willing to stop there and see who has
the best brains.”  Splitting the Republican vote, Wilson swept to victory
in November 1912 as the first Democratic president since
1897. In office, he pushed hard on consumer issues, winning
a major tariff reduction in 1913 and passage of the Federal
Trade Commission Act in 1914, which prohibited “unfair
methods of competition.” But he wouldn’t go as far as his
adviser, Brandeis, who had an unusual understanding of what
it meant to help consumers. Brandeis inveighed against “the
evil results of price-cutting.” As he put it: “In order
that the public may be free buyers, there must be removed
from the mind of the potential purchaser the thought that
probably at some other store he could get that same article
for less money.”  Wilson, on the other hand, accepted the idea that
price competition benefits consumers; his other signature
consumer legislation, the Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914,
outlawed price discrimination only when the effect “may be
to substantially lessen competition or tend to create a
monopoly.” Wilson, it turned out, was more pro-consumer
than the nation’s best-known consumer advocate.  ( Marc Levinson ’s most recent book is “The Great A&P
and the Struggle for  Small Business  in America.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Marc Levinson at
 marclevinson1@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 