-- Will Surging Oil Prices Prevent Environmental Doom?
-- B y   J e f f   R u b i n
-- 2012-09-26T22:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/will-surging-oil-prices-prevent-environmental-doom-.html
In the 21st century, burning
hydrocarbons is critical to achieving the economic expansion
that is needed to support the billions of new people who are
projected to inhabit the planet. Yet chasing that growth could
throw so much carbon into the atmosphere that it may undermine
humanity’s very survival.  Thankfully, there is another way to look at this dilemma.
If the abundance of hydrocarbons has brought us to the brink of
catastrophic  climate change , then the scarcity of those same
resources could be what saves us from disaster. The future of
our planet’s climate may soon be out of our hands -- and that
may not be such a bad thing.  As the  United Nations ’  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change  points out, our current rate of carbon emissions combined
with the atmospheric buildup since the Industrial Revolution
puts us on track to reach dangerous concentrations of  greenhouse
gases . An increase of 4 degrees Celsius in the next 100
years, the IPCC says, would have devastating consequences:
Droughts will cause global  food production  to fall; low-lying
coastal areas will be flooded as glaciers melt and sea levels
rise.  Carbon Emissions  Yet the flaw in these dire predictions is that they assume
our hydrocarbon consumption will continue to increase at the
same rate over the next few decades as it has in the past.
Economic growth drives  carbon emissions . When growth slows,
emissions come down, too, removing the need for stringent
climate-change policies.  Environmental advocates need to recognize that the global
economy has downshifted into a much lower gear. And gearing down
economic growth is the most direct way to reduce carbon
emissions.  Climate-change scientists should ask where we would get all
the fuel needed to raise global temperatures to forecasted
levels. Today’s soaring fuel prices indicate scarcity. And if
carbon-emitting fuels are getting scarce, how does that change
the outlook for growth in carbon emissions and the nature of the
climate-change debate?  Those are the questions policy makers need to answer before
charging ahead with financially punitive plans for carbon
abatement. If they don’t, governments could squander billions
carrying out measures that will ultimately prove unnecessary.  To date, attempts to regulate emissions have been driven by
a belief that we need to decarbonize our economies. Therefore,
governments try to reduce fossil-fuel consumption by putting a
price on carbon emissions. Some countries do this through taxes,
others try to control pollution using elaborate cap-and-trade
systems. The rationale behind these policies is straightforward:
Make emitters pay for emissions and they will emit less.  It hasn’t worked. International climate-change treaties
have failed to gain universal acceptance or institute
significant penalties for noncompliance. And without a globally
agreed-upon price for emissions, they will simply migrate to
jurisdictions where they cost less.  The fundamental flaw in the  Kyoto Protocol  is that by
seeking to cap emissions in the richer half of the world, it
merely diverted emissions to the poorer half. The developing
world is responsible for 90 percent of the increase in global
emissions since 2000. During that time span,  China ’s levels have
doubled, pushing it past the U.S. as the largest emitter.
Redistributing carbon emissions is not the same as reducing
total global emissions, which are now 50 percent higher than in
1990.  Who Pays  China and other  developing countries  argue that cumulative
emissions are what counts when it comes to climate change, and
insist that countries such as the U.S. should foot more of the
bill. Since the Industrial Revolution, the U.S. has produced an
estimated 27 percent of global carbon emissions, compared with
only 9.5 percent for China. As long as the big two won’t pay for
carbon, it is tough to persuade any other country to charge
domestic industries and consumers for emissions.  One notable exception is the European Union, which is
taking the environmental high road and making emitters pay. But
the system is far from perfect. It has put a low cost on
emissions and offers a plethora of carbon credits, which give
the agreement little financial bite. And even the EU is
beginning to doubt whether its efforts are worthwhile in the
absence of a global agreement and as the  euro zone  struggles
with a financial crisis.  The prospects for establishing a global framework for
carbon pricing are as remote today as ever. As plans to expand
the capacity of nuclear-power generation are canceled or delayed
around the world after the accident at Japan’s Fukushima plant,
the prominence of hydrocarbons in tomorrow’s economy only
increases.  Japan, for example, has acknowledged that in 2012 its
greenhouse-gas emissions will rise to as much as 16 percent
above 1990 levels, in sharp contrast to its commitment under the
Kyoto Protocol to reduce emissions to 6 percent below that
benchmark. In addition, it is replacing lost generation from
nuclear power by dusting off retired oil-fueled plants.  The story is similar in Germany, which is also moving away
from nuclear power and plans to build more coal-fired plants, in
addition to importing more natural gas from Russia.  In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  recently directed the
Environmental Protection Agency to withdraw an air-quality
proposal that would have tightened pollution standards for
industry after opponents complained the new regulations would
kill thousands of future jobs and cost the economy billions.  Kyoto Backslide  Canada is backing out of the Kyoto Protocol just in time to
avoid paying a huge bill for falling short of its commitments.
Canadian carbon emissions are 30 percent higher than they were
in 1990, and it would have had to pay $14 billion to buy credits
from the rest of the world to comply with its obligations under
the treaty.  None of this has to spell doom, however. The simple
unspoken truth is that a  recession  will stop the growth of
emissions dead in its tracks. And the deeper the recession, the
better it is for the atmosphere.  In fact, recessions reduce emissions levels. And they don’t
take three or four decades to do the job. According to the
 International Energy Agency , in 2009, global carbon dioxide
emissions fell for the first time since 1990.  Economic slowdowns have all sorts of environmentally
friendly results. Consider, for example, the number of resource
megaprojects that were canceled after commodity prices plunged
during the last recession. In Alberta’s tar sands alone, the oil
industry canceled or delayed $50 billion of planned  capital
spending .  In a zero-growth world, governments don’t need to step in
with punitive carbon taxes or ineffectual cap-and-trade
programs, nor will we need to depend on the whims of
environmentally conscious consumers or ecologically progressive
companies. When our economies shrink, our carbon emissions will
tumble without any legislative effort.  Just look at what happened when the Soviet Union collapsed.
Russia’s economy went into a tailspin and lowered carbon
emissions by a staggering 30 percent almost overnight. The
latest recession had a similar effect. In the U.S., energy-
related carbon-dioxide emissions fell 3 percent in 2008 and an
additional 7 percent in 2009.  Governments around the world have long thought that the
path to a greener atmosphere begins with decarbonizing our
energy systems -- electricity generation, in particular. Despite
efforts to usher in more renewable power generation, however,
the amount of carbon emitted per unit of electricity produced
has actually increased by 6 percent globally in the last two
decades. Even environmentally unfriendly coal still commands a
41 percent share of global power generation.  Alternative Energy  When it comes to reducing emissions, altering the energy
mix by adding more renewable sources is a red herring. What the
world really needs to do is use less power. And that’s exactly
what is about to happen.  Higher oil and coal prices are already putting the squeeze
on economic growth and fuel consumption. In the last few years,
power shortages have become commonplace in China, India and the
rest of Asia. Price and availability are stopping these
countries from burning more coal, not costly environmental
regulations. As prices keep rising, it will only become more
apparent how unnecessary international treaties and carbon taxes
are for lowering emissions.  Few climate-change experts take such economic
considerations into account when making forecasts. The IPCC, for
example, released a series of models for the future of  global
car bon emissions in its 2007 report, presenting no fewer than 40
different scenarios. The bottom line of the exercise was to
conclude that unless immediate action on carbon abatement is
taken, emissions would soon exceed critical levels and induce
catastrophic climate change.  The amount of hydrocarbons that would need to be burned to
fulfill the IPCC forecasts is staggering. The panel projects
that oil consumption, for instance, will be greater in 100 years
than it is today. And the majority of the IPCC scenarios see
world coal consumption doubling over the next two decades. About
80 percent of the projected global increase is expected to come
from China and India. But those forecasts are an extrapolation
of current economic-growth rates. The IPCC scenarios don’t ask
where all that extra coal will come from -- or, more
importantly, what it will cost.  The world won’t burn anywhere close to all the fossil fuels
needed to realize the IPCC’s dire predictions. Yet many
environmental policies are based on an assumption that future
resource supply will be abundant, and they won’t make any sense
in the coming world of fuel scarcity.  I don’t expect environmentalists to simply accept the
proposition that high fuel prices will save us. Instead, they
can just observe what is happening now. The onset of triple-
digit fuel prices has already led to the deepest postwar
recession on record, and their quick return is now threatening
us with a double-dip slowdown from which there is no obvious
path to recovery. Once we tip over that brink, just watch what
happens to carbon emissions.  And we won’t have to wait several decades. The time frame
for the next global recession isn’t decades away --- it could be
mere quarters from now. By historical standards, even the
deepest downturns rarely last more than four or five quarters.
The next recession, however, will be different. We are about to
face a permanent slowdown.  Our seemingly inexorable march toward environmental self-
destruction is about to run out of fuel. Triple-digit  oil prices 
may just give us all a new lease on life.  ( Jeff Rubin , a former chief economist and chief strategist
at CIBC World Markets Inc., is the author of “Why Your World Is
About to Get a Whole Lot Smaller.” This is the last of four
excerpts from his new book, “The Big Flatline: Oil and the No-
Growth Economy,” which will be published Oct. 16 by  Palgrave
Macmillan . The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part
2  and  Part 3 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on bringing back  Build America
Bonds  and on judging  Georgia’s Saakashvili ;  Caroline Baum  on
 Romney’s best chance to win ;  Michael Kinsley  on  Romney’s
incompetence ;  Ezra Klein  on  undecided voters ;  Amity Shlaes  on
why pensions are fueling  U.S. class warfare ;  Stephen Smith  on
how Republicans derail  Amtrak privatization .  Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a letter to
the editor.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeff Rubin at  jeffrubin@sympatico.ca   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  