-- Yankees Fall to Twins, Retain AL East Lead as Orioles Also Lose
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-26T05:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/yankees-fall-to-twins-retain-al-east-lead-as-orioles-also-lose.html
The  New York Yankees  fell 5-4 to
the Minnesota Twins, and held on to their 1 1/2-game lead in the
American League East as the  Baltimore Orioles  were shut out 4-0
by the Toronto Blue Jays.  The Orioles (88-67) remain in position for the first of the
two AL wild cards ahead of the Oakland Athletics (87-67), who
have a two-game lead over the Los Angeles Angels for the second
wild-card spot. The top two non-division winners in each league
earn wild-card slots, and one week remains in Major League
Baseball’s regular season.  The Athletics topped the host Texas Rangers 3-2 in 10
innings last night. The Angels defeated the visiting Seattle
Mariners 5-4.  At Target Field in Minneapolis, Denard Span hit a two-run
double and  Joe Mauer  added a run-scoring single as the Twins
scored four runs in the seventh inning.  “Our guys are rising to the occasion,” Twins manager Ron Gardenhire told reporters. “If you can’t get up for (the
Yankees), you can’t get up for anything.”  Nick Swisher  hit his 24th home run of the season to drive
in Robinson Cano in the fourth inning, and  Russell Martin  hit a
solo homer in the seventh as the Yankees (89-65) took a 3-1 lead.
Andruw Jones added a pinch-hit home run in the ninth for New
York.  Yankees shortstop  Derek Jeter  singled in the first inning
to extend his hitting streak to 19 games.  Fien Wins  Casey Fien (2-1) gave up one run on one hit in one inning
for the win. Glen Perkins got his 15th save after allowing
Jones’s home run while striking out two in the ninth inning.  Phil Hughes  (16-13) surrendered four runs on six hits and
struck out four in 6 2/3 innings for the Yankees.  At Camden Yards, the Blue Jays earned their second straight
victory against the Orioles on run-scoring singles by Yan Gomes,
Colby Rasmus and Edwin Encarnacion and an RBI double by Adeiny Hechavarria.  Aaron Laffey (4-6) allowed five hits in 5 2/3 scoreless
innings for the Blue Jays.  “Everything I had was out there tonight,” Laffey told
reporters. “It just shows that if you stay aggressive in the
zone and throw quality strikes, regardless of what the velocity
of the pitch is, you can get big league hitters out by keeping
the ball down in the zone and staying on the edges.”  Joe Saunders (2-3) gave up four runs on 11 hits in 6 1/3
innings for Baltimore.  Tigers Tie  The  Detroit Tigers  (82-72) moved into a tie with the
 Chicago White Sox  for the lead in the AL Central division. The
Tigers defeated visiting Kansas City 2-0, while the White Sox
lost 4-3 at home to the  Cleveland Indians .  In the National League, Atlanta clinched a playoff berth
when Freddie Freeman hit a two-run homer in the bottom of the
ninth inning to give the Braves a 4-3 win against the  Miami
Marlins .  Atlanta (89-65) is four games back of the NL East-leading
Washington Nationals (93-61), whose 6-3 loss to the Philadelphia
Phillies dropped them into a tie with the Cincinnati Reds for
the best record in the majors. The Reds beat the Milwaukee
Brewers 4-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  