-- Myanmar’s Ex-General Thein Sein Set to Showcase Reforms
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-09-27T03:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/myanmar-s-ex-general-thein-sein-set-to-showcase-reforms.html
Myanmar President  Thein Sein  last
visited the United Nations three years ago as the face of an
authoritarian military regime. Today, the former general-turned
reformer will present Myanmar in a new light.  In a speech to world leaders at the  United Nations General
Assembly  this morning, Thein Sein is expected to tout his
country’s progress in shifting to democracy after five decades
of military rule. He will be the first Burmese head of state to
address the 193-member world body.  While the spotlight has been on human-rights icon  Aung San Suu Kyi  during her 17-day U.S. trip, even by her own admission
it’s been the more low-key Thein Sein who’s been guiding
Myanmar’s transition from pariah state to aspiring democracy.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who met with Thein Sein
yesterday in  New York , said the U.S. would start easing a nine-
year-old ban on imports from Myanmar.  “It’s a government that wants to lead Myanmar out of
decades of isolation,” said Thant Myint-U, who’s written two
books on Myanmar and is the grandson of U Thant, the third UN
Secretary-General. “He was there previously as a spokesman for
the old military junta, and he’s now the architect of change.”  In his 2009 UN speech two years after he was promoted to
acting prime minister, when Than Shwe headed Myanmar’s military
junta, Thein Sein hinted at the changes to come. Swapping his
army uniform for a business suit, he announced to a global
audience that a political transition was in the works.  “The government is taking systematic steps to hold free
and fair elections,” Thein Sein said before the General
Assembly. He also said that democracy cannot be “imposed” and
criticized sanctions on his country as “unjust” and a
“political tool against Myanmar.”  ‘Innately Modest’  At the time, Suu Kyi, the country’s most famous dissident,
remained under house arrest, and many other political prisoners
were behind bars.  Today, it’s a different story. Thein Sein has freed
hundreds of political prisoners, eased restrictions on the
media, begun peace talks with rebel groups, and floated the
currency, the kyat.  Vijay Nambiar, the UN’s top adviser on Myanmar, has met
with Thein Sein about seven times on his 10 trips to the country
and describes him as a man who is “innately modest and not
given to making grandiloquent statements.”  “There is a quiet determination to him, he is quiet and
soft-spoken but will not flinch from a question posed to him,”
Nambiar said in a telephone interview. “He is a little ill-at-
ease with public attention he is now getting. He comes from a
modest background and in many ways is a self-made man.”  Ease Sanctions  After shepherding democratic reforms that prompted Western
nations to ease sanctions and led businesses to consider
investing in Myanmar, Thein Sein is under pressure to explain
which new economic policies lie ahead and how his government
will tackle thornier issues including the plight of ethnic
minorities such as the Rohingya Muslims.  “What he’ll want to do is explain the changes that have
taken place, the challenges that lie ahead, and demonstrate the
government is committed to continuing on this path,” Thant
Myint-U said in a telephone interview from Yangon.  With an eye to elections in 2015, investors are focused on
Myanmar’s economic potential after a half-century of neglect
left the country formerly known as  Burma  outside the global
financial system.  Import Ban  In a report this month, the  International Monetary Fund 
said direct foreign investment into the country will rise 40
percent to a record $3.99 billion this year. Natural gas is
Myanmar’s biggest revenue earner, and without new discoveries it
will struggle to reverse an average 15 percent annual depletion
in its  gas reserves .  Western governments are also warming up to Thein Sein. The
U.S. in July authorized the first investment in the country in
15 years, and Clinton announced yesterday that lifting the
import ban signals “the next step in normalizing our commercial
relationship.”  In place since 2003, the ban has deterred labor-intensive
manufacturing industries to invest in Myanmar just as Thein Sein
is seeking to create jobs after political reforms. U.S. imports
from Myanmar fell to zero in 2004 from $356 million in 2002,
according to U.S. government  statistics .  “I hope that the leadership in our country can help to
recognize the contributions that he has made working alongside
Suu Kyi to bring this moment about,”  Kurt Campbell , the U.S.
assistant secretary of state, told a congressional hearing on
Sept. 20, referring to Thein Sein.  Uncertain Future  While in the driver’s seat now, Thein Sein’s political
future is uncertain. The 67-year-old leader probably will step
aside when his term ends after elections in 2015, Ko Ko Hlaing,
his top political adviser, said in May. He made changes in his
Cabinet last month to bolster his reform agenda.  After serving four years as prime minister under the former
junta headed by Than Shwe, Thein Sein became president in March
2011 after elections that ended decades of direct military rule.  Five month later he met with Suu Kyi, the leader of the
biggest opposition party, in the capital of Naypyitaw.  Those talks marked the beginning of a working relationship
and set the stage for her party to participate in by-elections
last April after boycotting the 2010 vote.  Both leaders have stressed the need to set their egos aside
for the good of country.  ‘Common Goal’  “I don’t think we should think about this in terms of
personalities,” Suu Kyi told reporters after a Sept 21 meeting
with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. “I think we should think
about it as a common goal. If we all want to achieve genuine
democracy for Burma, we have to learn to work together and not
think about our impact as personalities, either in our country
or in the world at large.”  While in  Washington , Suu Kyi also gave Thein Sein his due.  “We must also remember that the reform process was
initiated by President Thein Sein,” Suu Kyi said in a Sept. 19
speech. “I believe that he is keen on democratic reforms. But
how the executive goes about implementing these reforms is what
we have to watch.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  