-- Youku Tudou Expects Lower Costs to Boost 2013 Results
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-26T06:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/youku-tudou-expects-lower-costs-to-boost-2013-results.html
Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , China’s biggest
online video company, forecast next year’s earnings will be
boosted by lower costs following the acquisition of a
competitor.  Industry consolidation has meant the company’s two largest
cost components, content and bandwidth, have both begun to
decline this year, Victor Koo, Youku’s chief executive officer,
said in an interview today. Koo didn’t give a projection on when
the company would become profitable.  The company was formed by the completion last month of
Youku Inc.’s acquisition of Tudou Holdings Ltd. to extend its
lead over websites run by  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) 
The combination of the online video companies that were China’s
two biggest is aimed at reducing content licensing and network
costs, and should produce savings of as much as $60 million
annually, Youku said in March.  “Last year because of some competitive issues, you saw
inflation of content costs,” Koo said at the company’s
headquarters in Beijing. “We see a lot of rationalization
happening this year and that will improve the financial
situation on the P&L standpoint next year.”  Youku’s second-quarter  revenue  rose 96 percent from a year
earlier to 387.4 million  yuan  ($61 million), the company
reported Aug. 6, before completion of the Tudou acquisition.
That was the slowest growth rate since Youku’s initial public
offering in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
net loss widened to 62.8 million yuan from 28.1 million yuan.  Youku’s American depositary receipts fell 3.5 percent to
$17.54 in  New York  trading yesterday. They have dropped 1.35
percent since the companies completed the merger on Aug. 23.  No Layoffs  The acquisition of Tudou will be fully integrated by the
fourth quarter and won’t lead to any layoffs, Dele Liu, Youku’s
president, said at a briefing today.  The $60 million savings target will begin to be realized
over the next 12-18 months, Koo said in the interview. Achieving
 profitability  is “something we are working on,” Koo said.  “We see the path to profitability very clearly,” Koo
said. “Revenue is growing very strong. Part of it will be
derived from the synergy we see coming from the merger.”  Combined Company  In the first quarter, the last before the acquisition was
announced, Youku accounted for 20.9 percent of  China ’s online
video market by revenue, compared with 11.5 percent for second-
placed Tudou, according to estimates by research company
Analysys International. Sohu.com Inc. was third with 10.9
percent, while Baidu’s Qiyi unit ranked fourth with 6.7 percent
market share, more than Tencent’s 4.7 percent, according to
Analysys.  By the second quarter, shortly before the acquisition was
completed, Youku’s market share had risen to 21.5 percent, while
Tudou dropped to fourth with 8.6 percent, according to Analysys.
Baidu rose to second place with 10.2 percent, while Sohu
remained in third with 9.8 percent.  A third-party audit done for the company after completion
of the Tudou acquisition found the combined company has 310
million weekly users, Koo said. The combined company now reaches
about 80 percent of China’s online population, up from about 55
percent for Youku on its own previously, he said.  Youku Tudou serves a total of 1.6 billion hours of video
every month, which is about 22 percent more than  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
YouTube, the company said in a statement today. YouTube service
is blocked in China.  ‘Exaggeration Here’  Concerns that overlap of users between Youku and Tudou may
be higher than projected have weighed on the stock. A report on
Chinese technology news website DoNews.com saying that the user
overlap before the merger could be as high as 50 percent sank
the stock by 10 percent on Sept. 17, Muzhi Li, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in  Hong Kong , wrote in a research note a day
later. The DoNews report reached a “wrong conclusion” by
comparing monthly data with a weekly figure cited by a senior
vice president at Youku on Sept. 11, Li wrote.  “There is a lot of exaggeration here,” Koo said today
when asked about the overlap.  The company’s audit found the daily overlap in users of the
two sites is about 14 percent, while on a weekly basis the
overlap is about 18 percent, Koo said.  “The  advertising  backend platform is now consolidated,”
he said. “We can eliminate duplicate reach to make sure the
return on investment for advertisers is highly effective.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  