-- Zloty Weakens and Bond Yields Fall as Belka Signals Rate Cuts
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-09-26T15:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-26/zloty-weakens-and-bond-yields-fall-as-belka-signals-rate-cuts.html
The zloty retreated and  Poland ’s
two-year bond yields hit a one-week low after Governor  Marek Belka  was reported as saying that the need for rate cuts is
“obvious.”  The zloty weakened 0.3 percent to 4.1468 per euro, the
second-worst performer among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on notes maturing in
July 2014 fell four basis points to 4.12 percent as of 5:49 p.m.
in Warsaw, the lowest level since Sept. 19.  Poland’s monetary easing should come as a “cycle” rather
than a one-time move, Belka was quoted today as saying by PAP
newswire. He didn’t say whether he will support a cut from the
current 4.75 percent level at the Oct. 3 meeting, according to
PAP. The comments come after  retail sales  growth slowed in
August while  industrial output  increased the least in 34 months.  “Dovish Belka comments should seal expectations for an
interest-rate cut in October,” Ernest Pytlarczyk and Marcin Mazurek, economists at BRE Bank SA in Warsaw, wrote in an e-
mailed research note. “This may weaken the zloty,” as the
currency hasn’t yet fully discounted the reduction in borrowing
costs, the analysts wrote.  The current zloty exchange rate isn’t “fueling inflation”
and is neutral for economic growth, Belka told PAP.  Poland’s lenders are already signaling they expect the
central bank to reverse its May interest-rate increase with the
 three-month Warsaw interbank offered rate  tumbling 18 basis
points in four weeks, the biggest decline since April 2010.  Easing ‘Cycle’  Traders in  derivatives market  are predicting a total of
almost 1 percentage point in cuts a year from now, based on the
difference between the three-month Wibor and prices for 12-month
forward rate agreement contracts compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors “should keep in mind that a monetary easing
cycle is coming” and policy makers will discuss the possibility
of cutting rates next week, PAP reported Belka as saying.  Growth in the European Union’s largest eastern economy
slowed to 2.4 percent in the second quarter, the weakest pace in
almost three years as domestic demand shrunk and public works
slowed, piling pressure on the central bank to cut rates.  Policy maker Andrzej Bratkowski, who called for a 50 basis-
point cut, told Radio PiN last week the country’s base rate
should be “much lower” than now as the risk of a “shallow
recession” has risen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  