-- A Surfer’s View of Apple’s Operating System
-- B y   C h r i s   D i x o n
-- 2013-06-14T17:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/a-surfer-s-view-of-apple-s-operating-system.html
When I heard the announcement that
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  had chosen to name its new operating system after
Mavericks, one of the most dangerous and storied surf spots on
Earth, I was rather intrigued.  As the former online editor of Surfer magazine in the late
1990s, I was proud of my Mac geekdom, pasting “Made with a Mac”
at the bottom of our first homepage in 1995. Apple  noticed ,
taking out at least one full-page Wall Street Journal ad that
used Surfermag.com to tout the Mac’s coolness. Apple has since
tapped surfing in innumerable ways to sell its products.  Of course, I don’t really begrudge them for this. Companies
such as  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  Ford Motor Co.  and  Walt Disney Co.  have
all jumped on the surfing bandwagon, tying their tangible
products to the intangible sensations of paddling out in the
morning glass, stroking into that perfect wave.  That’s the dream. Mavericks, on the other hand, is kind of
the nightmare.  In 1975, a kid named Jeff Clark, from Half Moon Bay, in
northern  California , dared to paddle the half-mile to ride the
waves at Mavericks. Clark surfed Mavericks’ skyscraper-sized
waves alone for 15 years before the editors of Surfer magazine
realized that some of the best surfing lay just off the Pacific
Coast Highway, south of San Francisco.  Peak Experience  Mavericks has become one of the sporting world’s greatest
spectacles. It has provided apex -- even world-record --
moments; it has also killed  Mark Foo  and  Sion Milosky , two of
the world’s best big-wave surfers, and it has injured, or
psychologically scarred, many more.  So in a way, when you consider the mythical nature of a
spot literally over the hill from its Cupertino headquarters,
Apple’s decision to name its new operating system Mavericks
makes perfect sense. Though the company promises a
groundbreaking fusion of desktop and mobile operating features,
this is still just a computer operating system. Mavericks is an
untamed wilderness.  Maybe I was missing something, so I called a few other
surfers to see what they thought. The first, of course, was Jeff
Clark.  “Mavericks has always been a unique and powerful place,
it’s not just a surf spot. It’s been my sanctuary, my life and
my business,” Clark said. “Now, it’s grown into a worldwide
phenomenon. But at the same time, I was sort of wondering, does
Apple even really know what Mavericks is? The  story  of Mavericks
is unique. It’s about respecting nature’s power while taking all
of our knowledge, ability and experience to bold new levels.”  Bill Sharp, the director of the  Billabong XXL Global Big
Wave Awards  -- the Academy Awards of the big-wave set -- has
been a self-professed Mac geek for 20 years. While he’s excited
about the exposure the new OS provides for what he feels is
still an underappreciated pursuit, big-wave surfing, he wondered
whether Malibu might not have better symbolized the carefree
user experience that Apple has long prided itself on.  “Mavericks is a sketchy-as-hell place that you can never
totally figure out, where the good days are far more rare than
you’d like,” Sharp said. “You can also never be truly backed up,
and most of the time there are more users than can possibly be
handled. But then again, if you’re trying to portray Mavericks
as the ultimate immersive experience that sucks you in, and may
never let you out, then maybe it works.”  This was echoed by Brendon Thomas, editor-in-chief of
Surfer. Thomas pointed out a fact that Apple, perhaps, wasn’t
aware of. In 1961, Alex Matienzo, one of the first surfers to
venture out into the waves at Mavericks, was forced back to the
beach because his white German shepherd kept following him into
the waves -- the dog’s name was Maverick. So, after a series of
Apple operating systems named after big cats, “this OS is just
ultimately being named after a big dog.”  ( Chris Dixon  is the founding online editor of Surfermag.com
-- a site always built with a Mac. He’s also the  author  of
“Ghost Wave: The Discovery of Cortes Bank and the Biggest Wave
on Earth.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Chris Dixon  at  dixoncj@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Alex Bruns at  abruns@bloomberg.net  