-- ABN Told by Court to Pay Fired Energy Bankers $1.41 Million
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-06-14T11:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/abn-told-by-court-to-pay-fired-energy-bankers-1-41-million.html
ABN Amro Group NV was told by an
Amsterdam court to pay 1.06 million euros ($1.41 million) in
compensation to two bankers it fired after an oil-trading
company complained the executives had sought a bribe.  ABN didn’t offer sufficient evidence to justify immediately
dismissing Bruno Gremez, the global head of energy commodities,
and a subordinate, Samir Kasmi, according to a June 10 ruling of
the Amsterdam Subdistrict Court obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “The consequences of the allegations for Gremez and Kasmi
are considerable,” Judge Monetta Ulrici said in the ruling.
“Gremez and Kasmi have become tainted in the market in which
they operated, while both had a nice career ahead of them.”  Under the judgment, known as a preliminary relief ruling,
ABN has to pay their salaries until their contracts end later
this year. The bank also has to pay 770,000 euros to Gremez and
294,000 euros to Kasmi, the chief of energy commodities for the
 Middle East , North and  East Africa  and south  Asia , according to
a separate ruling on the same date. ABN Amro said in an e-mailed
response it will only have to pay if subsequent proceedings
confirm the dismissals were improper.  The bankers were fired on March 26 after  ABN Amro  received
a complaint in November from Oil Marketing & Trading
International LLC. OMTI said the two executives requested a
“personal fee” of $3.5 million and imposed conditions,
including additional due diligence, when it refused to pay, the
court documents show. An internal probe by ABN Amro’s security
and intelligence management department found evidence their
claims were founded.  ‘Full Test’  The two executives denied the allegations and said they
requested additional risk management measures after the U.S.
Office of Foreign Assets Control increased rules regarding trade
in oil from Iran. The action also took place after reports said
Iranian oil had been traded from depots in the United Arab
Emirates port of Fujairah, breaking international sanctions.
Closely held OMTI has an office in Fujairah, according to its
website, as well as Dubai and  Athens .  “The dissolution ruling gives a conditional judgment on
the matter as the proceedings chosen don’t offer room for an
full test of the evidence,” Jeroen van Maarschalkerweerd, a
spokesman for Amsterdam-based ABN Amro, said by e-mail.
“Compensation has only been awarded in case immediate dismissal
doesn’t hold up and that remains to be seen. Our view remains
unchanged.”  The bank will study the ruling and consider its next steps,
he said. Either party can request the Amsterdam court to
reexamine the matter in greater detail.  Iranian Oil  Ines Hoedemaeker, a lawyer representing Gremez and Kasmi,
said they are satisfied with the rulings. The level of
compensation awarded by the court indicates “grave
culpability” on the side of ABN, she said. Under the court’s
ruling, Gremez’s contract will expire on Oct. 1, 2013, and
Kasmi’s on Sept. 1.  The Amsterdam Subdistrict Court said it had doubts about
the reliability of statements from OMTI’s executives to ABN and
a recording of a conversation between OMTI and the bankers the
company provided to ABN Amro.  Yiannis Kilakos, a director at OMTI, said in an e-mail the
company “remains firm on its previous position.” In March,
Kilakos said he “categorically denied any reports that the
company had dealt in Iranian oil.” ABN Amro’s Van
Maarschalkerweerd also said investigations showed allegations
regarding possible trading with  Iran  proved to be unfounded.  The court dismissed Gremez’s and Kasmi’s claims that ABN
would have to take steps to inform clients that OMTI’s
accusations were false, saying it wasn’t in a position to judge
their validity. The court also didn’t accept the men’s claim for
compensation until retirement, and of legal costs of more than
85,000 euros.  The cases are: EA-13-429, ABN Amro Bank NV v. Bruno Gremez
and EA 13-430, ABN Amro Bank NV v. Samir Kasmi, Amsterdam
Subdistrict Court; 1423777 KK EXPL 13-581, Bruno Gremez v. ABN
Amro Bank NV and 2051370 KK EXPL 13-770, Samir Kasmi v. ABN Amro
Bank NV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  