-- Aegon to Pay Unit-Linked Policy Costs After Top Court Ruling
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-06-14T15:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/aegon-to-pay-unit-linked-policy-costs-after-top-court-ruling.html
Aegon NV (AGN)  sees “tens of millions of
euros” in costs to compensate customers after the highest Dutch
court said the insurer had overcharged for some unit-linked
products sold in the previous century.  The company, the Netherlands’ sixth-biggest individual life
insurer, said it will also “pro-actively consider” if further
compensation is needed for clients who weren’t plaintiffs in the
court case, it said in a statement today.  The Dutch Supreme Court, based in  The Hague , today ruled in
a case initiated eight years ago by a foundation representing
about 30,000 holders of Koersplan unit-linked products, sold
from 1989 to 1998. The court  said  the customers paid excessive
premiums and weren’t aware of how much Aegon charged for term
life insurance. That lowered the amount of premiums invested.  Aegon will have to pay about 40 million euros ($53 million)
in damages to the Koersplan customers who participated in the
case, Stichting Koersplandewegkwijt said in a  statement  on its
website today. As many as 700,000 Koersplan policies were sold,
the foundation said.  With Koersplan products, customers paid deposits to
participate in an investment fund, cover expenses and pay a
premium for an embedded life insurance policy.  The Koersplan matter may reduce after-tax income by 150
million euros, The Hague-based Aegon said in its 2012 annual
report in March. It hasn’t yet taken a provision for the amount.  The costs come on top of several settlements announced
earlier. Aegon last year took a 265 million-euro charge and said
it would reduce future costs for customers with unit-linked
policies. In 2009, the insurer said it would set aside as much
as 250 million euros to settle allegations that it overcharged
some customers of unit-linked policies sold before 2008.  Dutch insurers, including  ING Groep NV (INGA)  unit Nationale-Nederlanden and state-owned SNS Reaal NV, have set aside about
2.5 billion euros to compensate clients, Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said in a June 13 letter to Parliament. The firms
settled after the Dutch financial markets regulator said in 2006
insurers didn’t adequately inform clients about charges that
reduced the returns on some of the products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  