-- Aetna Names Heads of International, Government Businesses
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-06-14T20:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/aetna-names-heads-of-international-government-businesses.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-largest health
insurer by market value, appointed new heads to oversee its
expanding government and international businesses.  Francis S. Soistman will take over Aetna Government
Services after running the insurer’s Medicare business, the
Hartford, Connecticut-based company said in a statement today.
Richard di Benedetto will take over the international division
after serving as chief executive officer of Euromedic
International, a provider of diagnostic services, laboratories
and cancer treatment, Aetna said.  Soistman, 56, helped oversee the Medicare areas obtained
through Aetna’s acquisition of Coventry Health Care Inc. earlier
this year, as well as the company’s 2014 bids under the U.S.-
backed program for the elderly, Aetna said. Di Benedetto, 51,
spent 15 years with the health-care unit of General Electric Co.
prior to joining Euromedic.  “The government and international marketplaces represent
significant long-term growth opportunities for Aetna and we are
pleased to add two strong leaders to these growing businesses,”
Aetna CEO Mark T. Bertolini said in the statement. “Fran and
Richard have a deep understanding of their respective
marketplaces and the proven ability to drive sustainable
growth.”  Kristi Matus, 45, the previous head of government services,
and Sandip Patel, 46, who led the international business, will
leave the company, Aetna said.  Aetna shares fell 1.7 percent to $60.53 at the close of
trading in New York. The shares have gained 31 percent this
year.  The company reaffirmed its full-year earnings forecast of
$5.70 to $5.85 a share in a regulatory filing today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in New York at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  