-- Halsey Minor Tries Again for Bankruptcy After Missed Deadline
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-06-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/halsey-minor-asks-court-to-throw-out-dismissal-of-bankruptcy.html
Halsey Minor, the CNET Networks Inc.
founder who filed for bankruptcy last month, is seeking to
reinstate his case after it was dismissed, saying he shouldn’t
be punished because his attorney missed a deadline for handing
in documents.  The personal Chapter 7 bankruptcy case, filed five years
after Minor sold CNET for $1.8 billion, was dismissed June 13 by
the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Los Angeles over a “failure to
file schedules, statements and/or plan,” according to an order
posted in the online docket for the case. The documents include
detailed lists of assets and explanations of a debtor’s state of
affairs, which are required by judges.  Minor listed assets of more than $32 million and debt of
more than $104 million in court papers filed June 7. Minor’s
attorney said additional information was needed to complete the
statement of financial affairs by the deadline and he “elected
to file a complete and correct” document past the deadline. All
required documents have now been filed, according to court
papers.  “The debtor should not be punished because of the decision
of debtor’s counsel the evening of June 7,” David Shemano,
Minor’s lawyer with Peitzman Weg LLP in  Los Angeles , said in
court papers filed yesterday. “Under the circumstances, cause
exists to vacate the dismissal order,” Shemano said.  Minor filed the bankruptcy petition on May 24, listing
assets of as much as $50 million and debt of as much as $100
million. In a Chapter 7, an impartial trustee is appointed to
administer the case and sell assets such as automobiles.  Minor, 47, sold CNET to  CBS Corp. (CBS)  in 2008, netting himself
about $200 million, according to  CNN Money . He lost money on bad
bets on real estate and other ventures. Halsey Minor’s Minor
Ventures invested in early-stage technology startups including
GrandCentral Communications Inc., which Google Inc. bought in
2007 for about $65 million and renamed Google Voice.  The case is In re Halsey McLean Minor, 13-bk-23787, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  