-- Manchester City Hires Pellegrini as Manager on 3-Year Contract
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-14T15:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/manchester-city-hires-pellegrini-as-manager-on-3-year-contract.html
Manchester City  hired Manuel Pellegrini to replace the fired  Roberto Mancini  as manager of
the English Premier League soccer club, which failed to win a
trophy last season.  The 59-year-old Pellegrini, who joins from Malaga, has
coached teams in his native  Chile ,  Argentina  and  Spain  including
Villarreal and Real Madrid. He signed a 3-year contract and will
start June 24, City said today in a statement on its website.  “Everything is in place for Manchester City to continue to
be successful and I am excited to be able to work with such a
talented squad, the executive team and the board to deliver for
fans who are renowned for their steadfast support,” Pellegrini
said in the statement.  City fired Mancini on May 13, two days after the team’s
upset loss to Wigan in the F.A. Cup final and exactly a year
after the Italian guided the club to its first English league
title in 44 years. Mancini spent 3 1/2 years in the job and also
won the F.A. Cup in 2011.  Pellegrini becomes City’s third manager since  Abu Dhabi ’s
Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan bought the team in 2008. City
had been a perennial underachiever in English soccer, even
dropping into the third tier in 1998, before Sheikh Mansour
spent about $1 billion to lift the club from under the shadow of
local rival  Manchester United .  City finished as the runner-up to United in the Premier
League last season, 11 points behind as the Red Devils won the
English championship for a record-extending 20th time. City also
came last in its European Champions League group.  ‘Holistic Approach’  The club said it fired Mancini after he failed to deliver
any of its stated targets beyond Champions League qualification,
and after it had identified the need “to develop a holistic
approach to all aspects of football at the club.”  Mancini’s exit means both Manchester teams will have new
coaches next season. United on May 9 appointed  David Moyes  as
successor to 71-year-old  Alex Ferguson , who retired after more
than 26 years.  Pellegrini, a qualified civil engineer, spent his entire
playing career with Santiago-based  Universidad de Chile , making
451 appearances for the club and then becoming its coach.  He coached various teams in  South America , including
Ecuador’s LDU Quito and Argentina’s River Plate, before taking
his first European job with Villarreal of Spain in 2004.  Pellegrini spent five seasons at Villarreal, where he twice
guided the “yellow submarine” to top-three finishes in La Liga
and twice reached the Champions League quarterfinals.  Madrid Stint  He joined Real Madrid in 2009, lasting only one season as
the team finished behind champion Barcelona even after
accumulating a then-club record 96 points. The runner-up finish
came after Real spent a record $300 million on players including
 Cristiano Ronaldo  and Kaka during the offseason.  Pellegrini took over at Malaga in November 2010 and guided
the club to its first top-four finish in La Liga in his first
full campaign in charge. The team reached last season’s
Champions League quarterfinals on its tournament debut.  City ended a 35-year trophy drought by winning the F.A. Cup
under Mancini in 2011 and securing its first English league
championship since 1968 on the final day of the following
campaign. It failed to win any silverware last season.  United clinched its 13th Premier League trophy with four
matches to spare to end City’s title defense. Mancini’s squad
didn’t win any of its six  Champions League  group games and its
tally of three points was the lowest by an English team in the
group stage of Europe’s elite club competition.  City lost the May 11 F.A. Cup final 1-0 at Wembley as
Wigan, which was relegated from the Premier League alongside
Reading and Queens Park Rangers the following week, became the
lowest-ranked team to win the trophy since West Ham in 1980.  To contact the reporters on this story:
--Chris Elser at the London Sports Desk  at
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  