-- Manchester Utd. May Pay $125 Million for Ronaldo: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-14T07:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/manchester-utd-may-pay-125-million-for-ronaldo-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Ronaldo, Bale  Manchester United is prepared to pay a world record
transfer fee to sign Real Madrid’s Cristiano Ronaldo or Gareth Bale from Tottenham Hotspur, the  Sun reported .  Ronaldo may be available after yesterday denying reports
that he’d signed a new contract with Real and United would be
prepared to beat the 80 million-pound ($125 million) fee it
received for him in 2009, the newspaper said.  If Ronaldo re-signs with Real, United manager David Moyes
is set to offer 85 million pounds for Spurs winger Bale, who is
also wanted by Real and Paris Saint-Germain, the Sun added.  Everton’s Top Earner  Everton will offer Leighton Baines a 50 percent raise and
make him the club’s best-paid player in an attempt to prevent
Moyes from luring him to United, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Left-back Baines, 28, has two years remaining on his 44,000
pounds-a-week contract and Everton would pay him 65,000 pounds
per week to stay, the newspaper added.  Chelsea Chases Cavani  Chelsea is set to bid 45 million pounds for Napoli’s
Edinson Cavani, the  Daily Express reported .  While the London club would need to fend off interest from
Real and Manchester City to sign Cavani, the Uruguayan striker
recently said he would welcome the chance to work with Chelsea
coach Jose Mourinho, the Express added.  Pellegrini Delay  City’s appointment of Manuel Pellegrini as manager is being
delayed by a contractual issue with his former club Malaga, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Pellegrini, who has agreed to a three-year deal with the
Premier League team, hasn’t received any wages from Malaga for
two months, and a third month without pay would mean that City
would not have to meet the 3.2 million-pound buy-out clause to
release him from the final year of his contract, the Mirror
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  