-- Tanzania Will Seek $700 Million in Private Placement, Bank Loans
-- B y   S a r a   J e r v i n g
-- 2013-06-14T11:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/tanzania-will-seek-700-million-in-private-placement-bank-loans.html
Tanzania ’s  Finance Ministry  said it
plans to raise as much as $700 million through selling debt to
selected investors and commercial bank loans to help tackle
unreliable electricity supplies and poor infrastructure.  Even though the  interest rates  will be higher than from
development institutions, the private funding will be more
predictable for the country, Deputy Finance Minister Saada Salum
said.  “While non-concessional loans have higher interest rates
and shorter grace periods than concessional loans, non-concessional loans have been a reliable tool for us in
borrowing,” Salum said in an interview yesterday in the
capital, Dodoma. “As Tanzania expects continued economic
growth, it is important that we invest in infrastructure to make
sure that the country can sustain this growth.”  Tanzania,  East Africa ’s second-largest holder of natural
gas reserves, plans to spend 5.7 trillion shillings ($3.5
billion) on development projects in 2013-14, including moving
forward with plans to build a pipeline from the southern Mtwara
region to the commercial hub of  Dar es Salaam . The country is
also going to spend money on strengthening the electricity
transmission network and bringing power to rural communities.  Finance Minister William Mgimwa said in his annual budget
speech yesterday that his spending plan factors in 1.2 trillion
shillings in external, non-concessional borrowing for the year
through June 2014.  Sluggish Growth  The government estimates the economic growth rate will be
almost unchanged at 7 percent this year from 6.9 percent in
2012, and rise to 7.5 percent next year and 8 percent in 2015.  Tanzania had periodic power outages earlier this year after
drought cut water levels in hydroelectric dams, forcing the
country to rely on emergency thermal generation to cover an
electricity deficit of as much as 365 megawatts.  Improvements to Tanzania’s infrastructure to the level of
that in Mauritius would increase its annual per capita growth
rates by 3.4 percent, according to the  World Bank . Spending on
 infrastructure  is only half of the $2.4 billion a year required
for the country to achieve its growth targets, the bank said.  Tanzania raised $600 million in March by selling seven-year
debt securities to selected investors at 600 basis points over
the London Interbank Offered Rate.  The government also financed its current budget with loans
from Credit Suisse Group AG and Stanbic Bank Tanzania Ltd.,
Salum said. Total non-concessional borrowing in 2012-13 will be
about 1 trillion shillings ($609.8 million) less than the 1.3
trillion shillings targeted, carrying an average interest rate
of 6 percent, she said.  The country aims to secure at least one sovereign debt
rating by June 2014 and then prepare to offer its debut
Eurobond. Neighboring  Kenya , East Africa’s largest economy,
announced plans yesterday to issue its first Eurobond by
September and use the proceeds for infrastructure projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Jerving in Nairobi at 
 sjerving@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  