-- Arizona Judge May Monitor Arpaio Civil Rights Compliance
-- B y   W i l l i a m   H e r m a n n
-- 2013-06-14T19:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/arizona-judge-may-monitor-arpaio-civil-rights-compliance.html
Phoenix Sheriff Joe Arpaio’s
compliance with a court order not to detain Latino motorists and
passengers only on the suspicion they are undocumented
immigrants or to use race or Latino ancestry as a reason to stop
a vehicle may be monitored by the judge who issued the order.  U.S. District Judge G. Murray Snow last month found that
that the Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office violated the civil
rights of Latinos in a crackdown on undocumented immigrants. The
ruling came in a lawsuit on behalf of all Latinos who, since
January 2007, have been stopped, detained, questioned or
searched by Arpaio’s deputies. The judge also said the office
must improve training and record-keeping on traffic stops.  “I have no intention of letting the sheriff be the final
authority on the effectiveness of that training or to conduct
that training absent oversight of an independent authority,”
Snow said at a hearing today in Phoenix. “I may require that I
approve the training and not just the independent monitor.”  Arpaio’s department covers  Arizona ’s biggest county by
population, with 3.8 million residents. His methods, including
saturation patrols or “crime suppression” sweeps in
predominantly Latino areas in and around Phoenix, have made him
a hero to groups seeking a crackdown on unauthorized entrants to
the U.S. and a target of advocates for immigrants’ rights.  ‘Substantial Agreement’  “We are in substantial agreement on the issues you have
raised and my clients will make meaningful changes,” Tim Casey,
an attorney for the office, told Snow today.  He said the saturation patrols ended more than a year ago.  “The sheriff’s office understands it needs to improve its
law enforcement practices and upgrade its ability to store more
information,” he told Snow.  Casey also said he believed continuing talks with the
plaintiffs in the case would result in both sides’ reaching
substantial agreement on remedies by August.  Stanley Young , an attorney for the plaintiffs, told Snow
that talks with Arpaio’s attorneys had been constructive and
asked the judge to let talks continue until August.  Snow scheduled a hearing for Aug. 30.  No Training  Arpaio testified at last year’s trial that his department
doesn’t arrest people “because of the color of their skin.”
While many deputies had undergone training regarding racial
profiling, according to trial witnesses, Arpaio testified that
he hadn’t.  The allegations in the class action before Snow are similar
to those made by the U.S. Justice Department in a lawsuit it
filed against Maricopa County and Arpaio.  The department accused the sheriff of “intentionally and
systematically” discriminating against Latinos. Arpaio, 80, who
has been elected five times and served 20 years in office, said
in response to the U.S. lawsuit that President  Barack Obama , a
Democrat, is going after him to court Latino voters.  The Justice Department yesterday filed a statement with
Snow’s court suggesting steps he could take to ensure compliance
with his ruling, including appointing an independent monitor.  ‘Preliminary Conversations’  “The  United States  has engaged in preliminary
conversations with plaintiffs in this case and would welcome the
opportunity to participate more directly with the parties in
negotiations aimed at reaching an agreement on the form of
appropriate relief,” Roy Austin, a deputy assistant attorney
general, said in the filing.  The case began in 2007, when Manuel de Jesus Ortega
Melendres, who was in the U.S. legally on a tourist visa, was
detained by sheriff’s deputies near a Cave Creek church where
day laborers often gathered.  A driver had picked up Melendres and two other men and was
driving away from the church when a deputy stopped the car for
speeding. The driver, who not Latino, wasn’t cited and was
allowed to leave, while the Hispanic men were held. Melendres
said in the lawsuit that a nine-hour detention that followed was
unlawful.  Melendres is one of the five named plaintiffs in the case.
The other four are U.S. citizens.  The case is Melendres v. Arpaio, 07-02513, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Hermann in Phoenix at  aphoto61@cox.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  