-- Ascendas Hospitality Seeks Japan Hotel Acquisitions on Abenomics
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-06-14T00:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/ascendas-hospitality-seeks-japan-hotel-acquisitions-on-abenomics.html
Ascendas Hospitality Trust (ASHT)  is
seeking investments in  Japan  where Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
efforts to revive the economy is boosting the prospects of its
hotel industry, Chief Executive Officer Tan Juay Hiang said.  Ascendas Hospitality Trust, a Singapore-based business and
property trust with one hotel in Japan among its portfolio of 10
hospitality assets, will focus its acquisitions in business
centers like  Tokyo ,  Osaka  and Fukuoka, Tan said. The hotel
industry will become “very attractive” as the yen’s decline
against the dollar makes travel to Japan cheaper, he said.  The trust, which said it raised S$706.6 million ($564
million) in an initial public offering last year, is seeking to
diversify its portfolio by adding assets in Japan where Abe’s
government and the  Bank of Japan  have pledged to end 15 years of
deflation and achieve a 2 percent inflation goal in two years.
The trust also plans to expand its portfolio by adding hotels in
Singapore,  Hong Kong  and South Korea, Tan said.  “Japan at this moment looks quite interesting as far as
the macro is concerned with Abenomics pulling its way,” Tan
said in an interview in the island state yesterday. “Japan is
definitely looking more attractive. So clearly, that’s one
destination.”  Tan said he’s focused on the election for the upper house
of parliament next month to see if Abe can get a majority to
push his policies through. Installed as prime minister after his
 Liberal Democratic Party  won a landslide victory in the lower
house of parliament in December, Abe faces a July election for
the less powerful upper house.  ‘Early Stages’  “If they can get a majority in parliament then the next
three years politically should be pretty strong,” Tan said.
“As the economy turns positive, we will see more deal flows
popping up and transactions will get more intense, though we are
still in the early stages.”  China ,  Australia  and Japan will continue to be in
Ascendas’s “radar chart,” while the trust plans to add three
new countries, Tan said adding that the trust targets to have an
equal weighting among the six countries.  “These six countries are politically quite stable, they
are mature markets and growth is still there,” he said, adding
that the company may eventually venture into  emerging markets 
such as Indonesia, India,  Vietnam , Thailand and the Philippines
over the longer term.  Park Hotel  Ascendas Hospitality Trust is entering the Singapore hotel
market by agreeing to buy the Park Hotel Clark Quay for S$300
million last month, adding to the trust’s portfolio of 10 hotels
spread across Australia, China and Japan.  After the acquisition, Australian assets will decline to 54
percent of its holdings while Singapore will be about 24
percent, he said.  The Park Hotel Group is planning to sell additional hotels
in Singapore including the Grand Park  City Hall  at Coleman
Street and Grand Park Orchard, the Business Times reported in
April, citing sources it didn’t identify.  “We will see if the price they want makes sense, then we
would be keen to have a conversation with them,” Tan said
referring to the report on the sale. “The process has just
started from their end, so we will continue to evaluate.”  Hotel occupancy rates in  Singapore  averaged 86 percent in
the past three years, as a record number of visitors were lured
to new attractions such as two casino resorts and a S$1 billion
downtown park, according to government data.  Ascendas Hospitality Trust declined 1.2 percent to 86
Singapore cents in Singapore trading yesterday, bringing its
year-to-date decline to 8.3 percent and below its offer price of
88 cents a share. Its parent Ascendas Pte manages Singapore’s
biggest industrial real estate investment trust, and operates in
33 cities with S$14 billion of assets, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  