-- ASX Declines Most in 3 Months Amid $532 Million Capital Raising
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-14T00:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/asx-declines-most-in-3-months-amid-532-million-capital-raising.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX) , the operator of
 Australia ’s main stock exchange, dropped after completing the
first part of a A$553 million ($532 million) capital raising to
ensure its clearing business complies with new regulations.  The exchange raised A$267 million selling shares to
institutional investors and intends to raise a further A$286
million from individual investors, the company said in a
statement today. Its stock fell 3.5 percent to A$34.05 as of
10:03 a.m. in Sydney, the most since March 4, compared with the
offer price of A$30 per share.  ASX Chief Executive Officer Elmer Funke Kupper is expanding
the exchange’s over-the-counter clearing service for  interest-rate swaps  and has cut fees to fend off competition in  stock
trading  from Chi-X Australia Pty and dark-pool operators. The
company will use the funds to pay down A$250 million of debt and
will use A$200 million to comply with stricter rules expected to
be required for its clearing business.  “Risk to equity holders’ returns has increased,” said
Arvid Streimann, a Sydney-based analyst at Morgan Stanley, in a
report yesterday. “The catalyst for the capital raising was
greater clarity on the likely  capital requirements  from European
regulators.”  The Group of 20 nations has ordered a global overhaul of
rules governing derivatives contracts, mandating the use of
central-clearing parties by traders. Regulators have sought
tougher rules for over-the-counter derivatives since the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the rescue of
American International Group Inc., two of the largest traders of
credit-default swaps.  Clearing Houses  Clearing houses stand between buyers and sellers to reduce
the risk of default. Derivatives comprise 32 percent of ASX
sales, the largest component, and the exchange must apply by
mid-September to the European Securities and Markets Authority
to be able to continue servicing European-based clearing
participants.  “ASX expects that its clearing houses will be sufficiently
capitalized to satisfy reasonably foreseeable market growth and
regulatory outcomes,” according to a statement from the Sydney-based company June 11. This “positions ASX for growth in both
over-the-counter clearing and futures clearing against an
emerging international regulatory agenda.”  The retail offer is scheduled to begin June 17 and close at
5 p.m. in Sydney on July 5, ASX said in a statement today. ASX
will announce full-year earnings on Aug. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  