-- Mattingly Joins Gibson in Dodgers-Diamondback Brawl Suspensions
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-06-14T18:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/mattingly-joins-gibson-in-dodgers-diamondback-brawl-suspensions.html
Los Angeles  Dodgers manager Don Mattingly and  Arizona  Diamondbacks manager  Kirk Gibson  were
among eight suspended by  Major League Baseball  after a fight
between the teams June 11.  Diamondbacks pitcher Ian Kennedy was banned for 10 games,
and four others were fined. The managers each were banned one
game.  Kennedy was suspended for intentionally throwing a pitch
near the head of Dodgers pitcher Zack Greinke after both clubs
had been warned earlier in the game, MLB said today in an e-mailed release. The hit-by-pitch sparked a benches-clearing
brawl that resulted in six ejections from the game.  Diamondbacks first baseman Eric Hinske received a five-game
suspension, while Dodgers players J.P. Howell and Skip Schumaker
and hitting coach  Mark McGwire  were given two-game bans. Los
Angeles pitcher Ronald Belisario was suspended one game.  Dodgers spokesman Joe Jareck declined in an e-mail to
comment on the suspensions, and said Mattingly will address the
media later today. Josh Rawitch, a spokesman for the
Diamondbacks, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  All player discipline is subject to appeal, according to
baseball’s release, which said the two managers will serve their
suspensions tonight.  The Dodgers’ 5-3 victory three days ago had five players
hit by pitches. Benches cleared in the bottom of the seventh
inning after Kennedy hit Greinke on the left shoulder. The
outfield bullpens emptied onto the field as well, as punches
were thrown and coaches argued for three minutes alongside
players in front of the Diamondbacks’ dugout.  No Punches  The benches and bullpens also emptied in the top of the
inning without a punch being thrown when Greinke hit Miguel Montero on the back with a pitch after Kennedy hit Dodgers
rookie Yasiel Puig on the face with a fastball earlier in the
inning. Greinke also struck  Cody Ross  in the fifth.  Kennedy was ejected along with Gibson and Diamondbacks
assistant hitting coach Turner Ward. McGwire, relief pitcher
Belisario and Puig were also thrown out of the game.  In addition to today’s suspensions, Puig, Greinke, Montero
and Diamondbacks outfielder Gerardo Parra were fined undisclosed
amounts. The Dodgers were also fined an undisclosed amount for
allowing players who are on the disabled list to leave the
dugout during the confrontations.  Greinke, who signed a six-year, $147 million contract with
Los Angeles in December, missed five weeks this season after
breaking his left collarbone fighting Padres outfielder Carlos Quentin.  Kennedy leads the National League with eight hit batsmen.
Last season he hit 14 batters, tied for the most in baseball.  Arizona (37-29) is in first place in the five-team NL West
division, with the Dodgers (28-37) last, 8 1/2 games back. The
two teams next meet for a three-game series in Arizona starting
on July 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  