-- Auto Industry Says It Supports Detroit on Brink of Bankruptcy
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s ,   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-06-14T20:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/auto-industry-says-it-supports-detroit-on-brink-of-bankruptcy.html
Two of the biggest companies in the
industry most closely associated with  Detroit  expressed support
for the city, which announced plans to miss debt payments today
that will make it the most populous U.S. city to default since
Cleveland in 1978.  General Motors Co. (GM) , based in Detroit, and  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler Group LLC, both of which went through
U.S. government-backed bankruptcy reorganizations in 2009,
expressed support for the city.  “Chrysler Group firmly believes in the City of Detroit and
its people, as evidenced by our continued investment in the city
and its residents,” the automaker, majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) ,
said in an e-mailed statement. Last year, Chrysler moved about
70 employees to the former Dime Building in downtown Detroit
after leasing the top two floors of the 23-story structure and
renaming it Chrysler House.  Detroit Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr today said the city
would suspend payments on $2 billion of unsecured debt,
beginning with today’s $39.7 million obligations issued to fund
pensions. He also announced a reorganization plan that would
create a regional water agency to take the place of its
municipally owned department, and active and retired workers
would see their pensions reduced under the plan.  Detroit also would spend $1.25 billion over a decade to
improve services, eliminate blight and create a more livable
community.  “We hope all parties can come together and take action to
build a stronger city,”  Greg Martin , a GM spokesman, said today
in an e-mail. “A healthy  auto industry  will play a part in
Detroit’s comeback story and GM is doing its part.”  Ford Motor Co., based in Dearborn, Michigan, declined to
comment on Detroit’s finances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  