-- Azeri, Syrian Governors Got Kickbacks, Prosecutors Say
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e ,   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-06-14T16:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/azerbaijan-syrian-bank-governors-got-kickbacks-austrians-claim.html
Central bank governors in  Azerbaijan 
and  Syria  received kickbacks from the Austrian central bank’s
mint and money-printer in exchange for contracts, Vienna
prosecutors said.  The prosecutors yesterday charged nine people, including
the vice-governor of the Alpine republic’s central bank, with a
criminal conspiracy that saw them pay at least 14 million euros
($19 million) in bribes for contracts from 2005 to 2011.
Azerbaijan’s central bank governor, Elman Rustamov, and Syria’s
governor, Adib Mayaleh, are among the officials who received
kickbacks, according to the 83-page indictment obtained by
 Bloomberg News . Neither man was charged with a crime.  “There’s no truth whatsoever to this,” Mayaleh said today
when reached by telephone. “It’s the first time I hear of it.
We don’t need to print in  Austria . We have contracts with
 Russia .” Namiq Aliyev, a spokesman at Azerbaijan’s central
bank, declined to comment when reached today by telephone. He
said he didn’t have Rustamov’s mobile-phone number.  The allegations follow an 18-month investigation into
Oesterreichische Banknoten- und Sicherheitsdruck GmbH, or OeBS,
the money-printing press owned by the central bank, and Muenze
Oesterreich AG, the country’s mint. Authorities arrested four
people in November 2011 after the kickbacks were discovered. The
Austrian press has been printing money since 1816 and produces
bills for African, Asian and Latin American countries.  ‘Exotic Countries’  Wolfgang Duchatczek, 63, the vice-governor of Austria’s
central bank,  chaired  the supervisory board of the OeBS when the
alleged crimes were committed. He took up the role along with
new executives in 2004 after the previous management ran up
losses with a contract in  Singapore  that went awry, according to
the indictment.  “Immediate measures were taken to balance the losses from
the Singapore deal,” prosecutor Volkert Sackmann said in the
document. “For that reason, lucrative money-printing deals were
sought in exotic countries.”  An Romanian-born OeBS employee, who was also indicted, led
the search. She identified Azerbaijan as a target after learning
that the country’s deal with U.K.’s  De La Rue Plc (DLAR)  was about to
run out, according to the indictment. She gained Azeri
officials’ interest by highlighting that the notes would be
designed by Robert Kalina, the Austrian currency designer who
also created the euro bills.  ‘Built on Sand’  She didn’t win the contract until promising to add an
amount equivalent to 20 percent of the order volume to
Azerbaijan’s bill and to pass this on to the officials,
according to the document. That plan was approved by the OeBS
board and Duchatczek in 2005, prosecutors said in the document.
Follow-up contracts included bribes of the same percentage,
labeled internally as “fee” or “commission.”  The purpose of the conspiracy was to “generate orders from
Azerbaijan’s central bank for as long as possible, not the least
to avoid that the OeBS has to fire employees,” according to the
indictment.  Austrian officials used shell companies incorporated in
 Beirut ,  Panama ,  Abu Dhabi , the British Virgin Islands and
elsewhere, using bank accounts in countries including  Latvia ,
Dubai, Slovakia and the U.K., prosecutors said in the document.  “The entire case against Dr. Duchatczek is built on
sand,” Duchatczek’s lawyer, Gabriel Lansky said yesterday in a
 statement . He said in a subsequent phone interview that his
client will be found not guilty in court.  Austrian officials also agreed with Syria’s Mayaleh and
other Syrian central bank officials to inflate prices on Syrian
pound orders by 14 percent, according to the indictment. The
agreements also included the minting of coins.  The Vienna prosecutors didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment as to whether they notified Syrian and
Azerbaijani officials about the allegations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  