-- Best Monsoon Rain in Two Years to Lift India Grain, Sugar Output
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-06-14T11:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/best-monsoon-rain-in-two-years-to-lift-india-grain-sugar-output.html
India’s monsoon, which accounts for
more than 70 percent of the annual rainfall, may be the highest
in two years, potentially boosting harvests of everything from
rice to corn, sugar cane and cotton.  Rainfall will be 98 percent of the 50-year average of 89
centimeters (35 inches) in the four months through September,
the  India Meteorological Department  said in a statement on its
website. That matched a forecast by the agency in April. It
defines normal precipitation as 96 percent to 104 percent of the
average received between 1951 and 2000. Showers in July, the
wettest month of the season, will be 101 percent of the average
and more than the 87 percent last year, it said.  A normal monsoon is critical to  Asia ’s third-biggest
economy to ease a water shortage, control  food prices  and spur
growth after the weakest rainfall in the three years in 2012 cut
production of wheat, cotton, and sugar. Agriculture accounts for
about a fifth of the economy, while 55 percent of the farm land
does not have access to irrigation. Increased farm output may
boost rural incomes, lifting sales of everything from gold to
tractors and mobile phones.  “The rainfall distribution has been good so far this
year,” P.K. Joshi, director for the South Asia region at the
Washington-based  International Food Policy Research Institute ,
said before the release of the forecast. “The country will have
a bumper food grain output.”  Slowing Growth  Consumer prices advanced 9.31 percent in May from a year
earlier, while  wholesale price -based inflation slowed to a 43-month low last month, according to official data. India’s
 economic growth  was 5 percent in the fiscal year ended March
2013, the slowest pace since 2003, partly because of a decline
in farm output and a moderation in investment, the statistics
agency estimates.  More than 235 million farmers in India, the world’s second-largest producer of cotton, rice and sugar cane, depend on rain
for irrigating crops. The monsoon usually makes landfall in the
south in June and covers all of  India  by July 15. Rainfall has
been 28 percent more than normal since June 1, the weather
office said yesterday.  “As of now the situation looks rosy,” said Faiyaz Hudani,
an associate vice president at Mumbai-based Kotak Commodity
Services Ltd. “July rainfall is very crucial and sowing of
crops will begin aggressively in two weeks.”  Planting Progress  Rice has been planted in 794,000 hectares (1.96 million
acres) as of today while oilseeds have been sown in 157,000
hectares, the farm ministry said in an e-mailed statement. Sugar
cane was planted in 4.21 million hectares and cotton in 1.58
million hectares, it said.  Rainfall in August will be 96 percent of the average,
compared with 101 percent last year, the  bureau said . Northwest
India, the main wheat, rice and sugar cane region may get 94
percent of average rainfall this year, while the central region,
the biggest soybean grower, may see precipitation of as much as
98 percent of the average, the bureau said.  Showers in northeast India, the main tea and rice producer,
may total 98 percent of the average, while they may be 103
percent in southern regions, the top coffee and rubber growing
areas, the bureau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  