-- Biggest Platinum Companies Meet Union Heads to End Labor Unrest
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-06-14T10:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/biggest-platinum-companies-meet-union-heads-to-end-labor-unrest.html
The chief executive officers of the
world’s biggest platinum companies and leaders of other South
African mines met with heads of unions and the deputy president
to try restore peace in the industry following violent unrest.  The government is trying to defuse union rivalry that has
led to three worker deaths since May at shafts owned by  Lonmin
Plc (LMI) , the third-biggest platinum producer. This followed the
killings of at least 44 people, including 34 shot by police in
one day, near Lonmin’s operations in the country last year.  “Every problem that is identified by stakeholders is
tackled and resolved,” Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe  said
in a speech before the meeting in  Pretoria , the capital. “We
start off with areas that admit to immediate solutions. Those
problems that may admit to long-term solutions, we commit to
tackling them.”  Conflict has surrounded competition between the  National
Union of Mineworkers , an ally of the ruling  African National
Congress , and the Association of Mineworkers and Construction
Union. The AMCU is now the biggest representative of employees
at the world’s three largest platinum companies, all of which
have the bulk of their operations in  South Africa .  Mining strikes last year caused almost 15 billion rand
($1.5 billion) in lost output and shaved about 0.5 percentage
point off gross domestic product, according to government
figures. Unrest has cut a further 0.3 percentage point off
growth this year, President  Jacob Zuma  said yesterday.  The AMCU yesterday delayed its plan to start a strike over
organizational rights at Lonmin to participate in today’s talks.
AMCU President Joseph Mathunjwa was present, as was Lonmin
Acting CEO Simon Scott and leaders of the Chamber of Mines.  “We have done this in order to assure the nation and whole
world of our holistic commitments towards good industrial
relationship at the workplace,” the union said in an e-mailed
statement.  Gold and coal companies, working through the chamber, are
due to start wage negotiations with unions in the middle of this
month. The NUM has asked for employees who operate at the
surface of mines to be increased by as much as 61 percent, and
for gains of 15 percent in other worker categories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  