-- Bill Clinton Urges U.S. to Become More Involved in Syria
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-06-15T03:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/bill-clinton-urges-u-s-to-become-more-involved-in-syria.html
Former President  Bill Clinton 
applauded the White House decision to help Syrian rebels and
said today the U.S. must “do more” to end the conflict.  Clinton spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview in
 Chicago  a day after the U.S. made clear it would provide small
arms and ammunition to the Syrian opposition amid battlefield
setbacks for rebels. The move follows U.S. confirmation that
forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad used chemical weapons
in the civil war that began more than two years ago.  President  Barack Obama  is authorizing lethal military aid
to rebel groups under a classified order instructing the Central
Intelligence Agency to arrange delivery of the weapons,
according to a U.S. official familiar with the decision who
asked not to be identified discussing the action.  “I feel good about the announcement and I think we should
wait and see what the details are,” Clinton told  Trish Regan  of
Bloomberg Television.  “I don’t think that we should send troops there, but I
don’t think we should stay where we are,” he said. “I think we
should do more.”  Earlier this week, Clinton said Obama should act more
forcefully in  Syria , where the fight has taken more than 90,000
lives and created more than 1.5 million refugees, according to
United Nations estimates.  Forceful Action  The interview with Clinton took place on the second and
final day of the annual  Clinton Global Initiative America 
meeting, a gathering that attracted about 1,000 business,
government and foundation leaders. Attendees developed 74 new
commitments valued at more than $1.6 billion, according to a
news release from the organization.  Later, Clinton interviewed  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie . The former president, a Democrat, jokingly described
the Republican as “a man whose reputation I have virtually
ruined more than once,” after being seen talking to him in
public.  For his part, Christie, 50, promoted the need for
government in the wake of natural disasters like  Hurricane
Sandy , which struck New Jersey in late October. He also called
on states and the federal government to spend more on dunes that
protect shorelines from storm damage.  “You have to start having the cost-benefit analysis of
whether or not you need to do this upfront,” he said.  Flood Program  The U.S. National Flood Insurance Program shouldn’t be the
country’s “sole” option for protection against such disasters,
Christie said, adding that businesses need to be more involved
in protecting Americans from the ravages of such storms.  In the aftermath of Sandy, the insurer has been
“challenging” to work with, Christie said, adding that it
seems more worried about government audits than helping victims.  “I think it is very difficult to understand this until you
have been through it,” Christie said. “When this kind of thing
happens, Republican, independent, Democrat -- no matter who you
are or what you are, you turn to government.”  Christie angered some Republicans when, as Obama visited
damaged areas shortly after the hurricane occurred, the governor
touted the president’s handling of the initial federal response.
The praise came less than a week before Obama won a second term
against Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  in the November election.  Clinton told Christie: “The enduring image most Americans
have of you is standing there in your jacket grieving with your
people, working with them and working with the president, and
you got both praise and damnation for ignoring the political
differences that you had then and still have with the president
and all of us who are in the other party.”  Presidential Contender  For Christie, a potential 2016 presidential candidate, his
appearance today represented the latest unorthodox political
move that has led some Republicans to complain that he’s more
concerned with his own ambition than his party’s needs. The
first-term governor is seeking re-election in his heavily
Democratic state on Nov. 5.  Christie’s visit to Chicago took place as other prospective
Republican presidential candidates spoke yesterday and today to
the party’s core supporters at a Washington  conference  hosted by
the Faith & Freedom Coalition, a group based in Duluth,  Georgia .  Hillary Clinton , a potential 2016 Democratic presidential
candidate, was the headline speaker yesterday at the gathering
in Chicago.  ‘Too Young’  Her husband, asked about prospects of another Clinton
occupying the White House after 2016, said in the Bloomberg
interview, “Chelsea’s still too young,” a reference to his 33-year-old daughter.  He also said: “I don’t know what Hillary’s going to do,
but whatever it is, I expect to support it.”  His wife, 65, has been saying she has no plans for a second
presidential run following her unsuccessful 2008 bid, while also
not ruling out another try.  The former president, while known for his political focus,
said that he thinks the subject shouldn’t be such a constant.  “I think that only fixating on politics all the time gives
us a form of national attention-deficit disorder,” he said.
“We shouldn’t just fixate on the next presidential election all
the time.”  “We need to take a little time off to work and think about
what our country needs and think about what we can do together
and think about what the parties can do together and think about
how we can reach across these lines that divide us and make
something good happen for America,” Clinton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  