-- BlackRock Active Stock CIO Leavy to Take Medical Leave
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-06-14T15:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/blackrock-active-stock-cio-leavy-to-take-medical-leave.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Chris Leavy, who’s
been charged with improving the performance of the firm’s active
stock funds, is taking medical leave starting today to treat his
diabetes and a related cardiovascular condition.  Leavy, the 42-year-old chief investment officer for
BlackRock’s fundamental stock unit in the Americas, has been
advised to pursue full-time treatment to address his health
issues, which are treatable, before returning to work, said
 Brian Beades , a spokesman for the New York-based firm. Quintin Price, who hired Leavy and is BlackRock’s global head of alpha
strategies, will take over on an interim basis until Leavy
returns, Beades said.  Since joining BlackRock in October 2010 from
OppenheimerFunds Inc., Leavy has replaced portfolio managers at
strategies representing about 40 percent of the division’s $115
billion under management. Last year, he added oversight of the
large-capitalization stock funds previously led by former equity
chief investment strategist  Robert Doll . He’s hired portfolio
managers including Bartlett Geer from Putnam Investments LLC and
UBS AG’s Lawrence Kemp.  Despite becoming the world’s biggest money manager with
$3.94 trillion in assets, BlackRock has struggled with its
active stock unit as performance trailed peers and investors
industrywide flocked to the perceived safety of bonds after the
financial crisis. With investors anticipating a reversal of that
trend with the end of the three-decade-long bond rally,
BlackRock is relying on Leavy to boost its track record and
position itself for a rebound in sales of stock funds.  ‘Outstanding Investor’  Peter Stournaras, who has co-manged the large-cap funds
since 2010, will run the funds while Leavy is recovering, Beades
said. There will be no change to the investment objectives or
strategies of the portfolios, he said.  “Chris is an outstanding investor and a valued colleague,
and we wish him all the best while he takes a leave to take care
of his health,” Beades said. “We’re fortunate to have a deep
bench of talented investors who will be able to continue to
focus on delivering for BlackRock’s clients during Chris’s
leave.”  The institutional shares of the $887 million  BlackRock
Large Cap Value Fund (MALVX)  have returned 17 percent this year, behind
55 percent of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The $1.7 billion  BlackRock Large Cap Core Fund (MALRX)  returned 15
percent this year, trailing 60 percent of rivals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  