-- Blankfein Met With SEC’s White Two Days After Money Funds Vote
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-06-14T21:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/blankfein-met-with-sec-s-white-two-days-after-money-funds-vote.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein met this month with the top
U.S. securities regulator to discuss issues including the
Volcker rule and regulations for money-market mutual funds.  Blankfein’s meeting with Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairman Mary Jo White on June 7, two days after the agency
proposed new money-fund rules, was disclosed by the SEC today in
a memo posted on its website. The meeting, which included
White’s Chief of Staff Lona Nallengara, also touched on proxy
advisory firms, according to the memo.  SEC commissioners voted June 5 to propose a floating-share
value for the riskiest money funds or allow them to suspend
redemptions in times of stress. New York-based Goldman Sachs is
the eighth-largest manager of money funds, according to Crane
Data LLC.  The bank decided in January to begin disclosing the market-based net asset value of its its money funds that invest in U.S.
commercial paper. The SEC’s proposal, which is open for public
comment, calls for all money funds to publish that information
on a website.  On the Volcker rule, Blankfein said in November that its
curbs on proprietary trading and private-equity investments
would have a “modest impact” on the firm’s profitability. He
said at an event hosted by Politico in  Washington  yesterday that
he hopes that the regulations implementing the rule named for
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  are written in a
way that won’t hurt markets.  “The one thing I think is mistaken and frankly hard to
deliver, maybe impossible to deliver, is the rules that try to
regulate activities based on state of mind,” Blankfein said
yesterday. “Buying a security is good if it’s done to make
markets, but the second it crosses over from making markets to
trying to exploit the value of the position, it’s now a bad
thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  