-- BofA Gave Bonuses to Foreclose on Clients, Lawsuit Claims
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-06-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/bofa-gave-bonuses-to-foreclose-on-clients-lawsuit-claims.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-biggest U.S. lender, rewarded staff with cash bonuses and gift
cards for meeting quotas tied to sending distressed homeowners
into foreclosure, former employees said in court documents.  Mortgage workers falsified records and were told to delay
U.S. loan-assistance applications by requesting paperwork that
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank had already received,
according to statements from ex-employees filed last week in
federal court in  Boston . The lender improperly disqualified
applicants to the Home Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP,
according to a May 23 statement from Simone Gordon, a loss-mitigation specialist who left the company in 2012.  “We were regularly drilled that it was our job to maximize
fees for the bank by fostering and extending delay of the HAMP
 modification  process by any means we could,” Gordon said.
Managers instructed staff to “delay modifications by telling
homeowners who called in that their documents were ‘under
review,’ when in fact, there had been no review,” she said.  Bank of America, which has spent more than $45 billion to
settle claims tied to its 2008  takeover  of Countrywide Financial
Corp., is being sued by homeowners who didn’t receive permanent
loan modifications after making payments under trial programs,
according to court papers. Statements from seven former loan
employees were included in a filing last week as part of
plaintiffs’ attempt to gain class-action status. The lender has
denied the allegations.  Gift Cards  Bank of America has helped the most homeowners under HAMP
and is committed to assisting customers at risk of foreclosure,
Rick Simon, a company spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  “At best, these attorneys are painting a false picture of
the bank’s practices and the dedication of our  employees ,”
Simon said. “While we will address the declarations in more
depth when we file our opposition to the plaintiffs’ motion next
month, suffice it to say that each of the declarations is rife
with factual inaccuracies.”  The lender unsuccessfully tried to dismiss the complaint in
2011. U.S. District Judge Rya Zobel ruled that the case could
proceed while dismissing some claims. Zobel is scheduled to
consider the class-certification request at an Aug. 1 hearing.  Loan collectors who put at least 10 customers into
foreclosure, including those who were in trial modifications,
were given a $500 bonus, said Gordon, who worked at Bank of
America for more than four years. Other rewards included gift
cards for retailers including  Target (TGT)  and Bed, Bath and Beyond,
she said.  ‘Falsify Information’  Another former employee, Theresa Terrelonge, said loan
officers were given restaurant gift cards and $25 cash awards
for denying loan applications. The incentives moved workers to
improperly reject applicants, Terrelonge said in a May 15
statement.  “I witnessed employees and managers change and falsify
information in the systems of record, and remove documents from
homeowners’ files to make the account appear ineligible for a
loan modification,” said Terrelonge, a loan servicing
representative. This allowed managers to meet quotas for closed
cases, she said.  Bank of America instructed employees to delay applications
and mislead customers “as part of a deliberate practice of
stringing homeowners along,” lawyers said in a June 7 filing.  Private Loans  The law firm is in contact with more than 1,000 Bank of
America customers who said they completed requirements for a
trial and were denied permanent modifications, attorney Steve Berman of Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP said in a court
filing. Lawyers supported their claims with declarations from
the seven employees, many of whom said they had access to the
bank’s software, which allowed them to understand the process.  “I personally reviewed hundreds of files in which the
computer systems showed that the homeowner had fulfilled a
trial-period plan” before being denied, said William Wilson, a
loan manager who left the firm in August. “On many occasions,
homeowners who did not receive the permanent modification that
they were entitled to ultimately lost their homes.”  The bank offered some applicants who should’ve gotten HAMP
modifications a more-expensive private loan that charged as much
as 5 percent interest, compared with 2 percent under the U.S.
program, said Wilson, a case-management leader overseeing 13
others.  The bank held a twice-monthly “blitz” in which thousands
of cases were improperly denied, Wilson said. Employees would
certify to the U.S. Treasury Department false reasons for
rejections, he said.  New York  Bank of America was among five mortgage servicers that
reached a $25 billion settlement last year with the U.S. and
states to resolve claims of abusive foreclosure practices. The
deal provided monetary relief to homeowners and establishes
standards for servicing mortgages.  Those rules restrict banks from foreclosing on a home while
a borrower is being considered for a loan modification, and set
procedures and timelines for reviewing loan-modification
applications from homeowners.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said in May
that he intended to sue Bank of America and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
the largest U.S. mortgage lender, for violating terms of the
settlement related to processing modification applications.  Schneiderman’s office has been alerted to the filing of the
former employees’ statements, said Linda Tirelli, a White
Plains, New York-based lawyer who represents clients seeking
modifications from Bank of America. She included the documents
in a letter to the attorney general dated June 13.  ‘Sitting Around’  The banks aren’t “fulfilling their obligations under the
national mortgage settlement,”  Tirelli  said. “After a three-month trial basis, they’re supposed to promptly deliver a loan
modification. My clients have been sitting around for six,
seven, eight months and still don’t have a permanent
modification.”  Bank of America said last month that New York’s claims are
“entirely baseless” and argues that under the settlement, the
state has no right to file an enforcement action against the
company.  The case is In Re Bank of America Home Affordable
Modification Program (HAMP) Contract Litigation, 10-md-02193,
U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  