-- Bond Sales Slow Amid Climbing Credit Risk in Europe on Stimulus
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-06-14T11:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/bond-sales-slow-amid-climbing-credit-risk-in-europe-on-stimulus.html
Sales of corporate bonds in  Europe 
fell to the lowest in two months this week as the cost of
insuring the debt against losses rose with investors 
anticipating a withdrawal of central banks’ stimulus measures.  Coca-Cola HBC AG (CCH) , the world’s second-biggest bottler of the
soft drink, and  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) , Europe’s largest maker
of  aircraft engines , led companies selling 6.3 billion euros
($8.4 billion) of bonds, down from 12.3 billion euros last week
and the least since the week ending April 6, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps protecting against losses on 125 investment-grade
borrowers was up four basis points on the week to 108.  Credit investors are concerned the U.S. Federal Reserve
will trim its bond-buying program if it sees sustained
employment growth, restricting support that has kept borrowing
costs near record lows.  Bank of Japan  policy makers decided not
to take additional steps to spur growth or extend the maturity
of bank loan facilities earlier this week.  “Appetite for risk has declined substantially for now and
for this reason we saw only a few new deals this week,” said
Oliver Woyda, a  money manager  at Deka Investment GmbH in
 Frankfurt , which oversees about 20 billion euros. “Speculation
around the Fed cutting stimulus is the most important trigger.”  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly junk credit ratings rose 14 basis
points this week to 449.  Rate Increase  The index was 22 basis points lower today after the Wall
Street Journal said Fed officials are likely to push back on
expectations of a rate increase and an adjustment in their $85
billion a month bond-buying program won’t mean it will end all
at once.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers, which dropped 7.75 basis points today, is
up six basis points on the week at 157.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  