-- Brazilian Soccer Player Luiz Likens Jeering Fans to Angry Parent
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-15T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/brazilian-soccer-player-luiz-likens-jeering-fans-to-angry-parent.html
Brazilian soccer player  David Luiz 
described the faltering national team’s relationship with its
fans to that of a child who can’t always please his parents.  Brazil, host of the 2014 World Cup, opens the eight-country
Confederations Cup today against  Japan , days after national
great Pele urged his countrymen to stop jeering the team. The
South American country, a record five-time World Cup champion,
has fallen to No. 22 globally, its lowest standing ever, in
global governing body FIFA’s rankings.  “When your kids do something bad, do you speak well with
them? No, so it’s natural,” Luiz, who plays for London-based
Chelsea, said in an interview after training with the national
team at the $750 million Mane Garrincha stadium in Brasilia.
“Sometimes when I’m in Chelsea, sometimes the public doesn’t
like the team and shouts something bad, but that’s natural.”  Fans have jeered the national team in two of its last three
games, a pair of 2-2 draws against Chile and  England . In the
England match, played at the Maracana stadium in Rio de Janeiro,
national team coach Luiz Felipe Scolari was barraged with cries
of “donkey” from the bleachers.  That prompted Pele, the only player to win three World
Cups, to make a public plea to the nation.  “Let’s not boo the Brazil national team,” Pele said at an
event to unveil the official countdown clock for the World Cup
at Copacabana beach in Rio on June 12.  “We are still starting,
we still have one year to go. This is just the kickoff.”  Confederations Cup  On June 9, Brazil defeated 1998 world champion France 3-0
in Porto Alegre.  Games at the Confederations Cup are  Brazil ’s only
competitive matches before it hosts the World Cup, where it will
look to win on home soil and reverse memories of a defeat to
Uruguay in the final game of the 1950 tournament in Rio.  Brazil’s chances to do well rest on Scolari’s ability to
bring the team back to form. Scolari, the last coach to win the
World Cup with Brazil in 2002, was re-hired earlier this year
after the national governing body fired Mano Menezes. Scolari
used his pregame news conference to call for home support.  “It’s very important to have the local pressure from the
crowd,” he said. “But if we have difficulties in the
beginning, don’t react well and don’t have the necessary support
from the fans, then it’s bad to play at home.”  Defender Luiz, who played for Benfica in  Portugal  before
joining Chelsea in 2011, said the tournament was particularly
important for him.  “I don’t have many opportunities to play in my country in
front of my public so everyone wants to win,” he said.  Victory in the Confederations Cup, where Brazil will also
play Mexico and  Italy  in Group A, is vital to changing
perceptions, goalkeeper Julio Cesar said.  Booing is “normal because, in Brazil, the fans ask too
much of us,’ he said in an interview. ‘‘In this moment the team
is calm and relaxed and we hope to do a good Confederations Cup
and maybe if we win the situation will change.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  