-- Brazilian Real Falls as Tax Removal Not Enough; Swap Rates Jump
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2013-06-14T21:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/brazilian-real-falls-as-interventions-tax-removals-not-enough.html
Brazil’s real posted the biggest 
decline in  emerging markets  after the government’s interventions 
this week failed to staunch capital outflows triggered by 
faltering economic growth and a jump in U.S. bond yields.  The real fell 1.4 percent to 2.1516 per dollar, the worst
performance today among major developing-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It has lost 0.9 percent this week and
plunged 7 percent since the end of April. Swap rates due in 
January 2015 jumped seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, 
to 9.57 percent after central bank President Alexandre Tombini 
told  Valor Economico  there’s no limit on interest-rate increases.  While the currency rebounded from a four-year low yesterday
after the government removed a 1 percent tax charged on wagers
against the dollar, the gains proved short-lived as speculation
the U.S. Federal Reserve will pare back monetary stimulus lured
money away from Latin America’s biggest economy. The  Federal
Open Market Committee  meets next week and will release its
forecasts for the  unemployment rate , growth, inflation and
 interest rates .  “Until the Fed meeting, the market is going to be more
volatile,” Joao Paulo de Gracia Correa, the head of  currency
trading  at Correparti Corretora, said by phone from Curitiba,
Brazil. “The broader trend is the government’s intention to
bring more stability to the currency and keep it below 2.15 per
dollar, to not impact inflation.”  The derivatives tax removal, the second step taken this
month to loosen  capital controls , followed central bank currency
swap auctions that sought to stem the real’s slide.  Swap Rates  The  International Monetary Fund  today said it sees the
 Federal Reserve  maintaining large monthly bond purchases until
at least the end of this year and urged the central bank to
carefully manage its exit plan to avoid disrupting financial
markets.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose as much
as 19 basis intraday after Tombini said in an interview with
Valor that the central bank “will do what needs to be done” to
ensure inflation ends 2013 below last year’s 5.84 percent pace.  Annual inflation accelerated for nine straight months
through March to 6.59 percent, exceeding the upper end of the
central bank’s target range of 2.50 percent to 6.50 percent. It
eased to 6.49 percent in April and was 6.50 percent in May.  Brazil Inflation  Brazil’s June IGP-10 inflation index, which monitors prices
from the 11th day of the previous month to the 10th day of the
current month, rose 0.63 percent, compared to a decline of 0.09
percent in May, the Getulio Vargas Foundation said today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists was for a
0.45 percent increase. The IGP index is composed of producer
prices, consumer prices and construction costs.  The Washington-based IMF left its U.S. growth forecast for
this year unchanged at 1.9 percent, and lowered its prediction
for 2014 to 2.7 percent, from 3 percent growth predicted in
April, according to its annual report on the  U.S. economy .  Brazil’s economy expanded 0.9 percent last year and will
grow 2.53 percent in 2013, according to the median forecast of
about 100 analysts surveyed by the central bank. They had
projected an expansion of 2.77 percent the week before.  Rousseff’s administration yesterday eliminated a tax on
futures-market bets against the dollar. Last week, the
government removed a tax known as IOF on foreign investors who
buy Brazilian bonds in the domestic market. The government is
also creating an $8.7 billion  credit line  for low-income
families.  ‘Reactive’  “Although we have seen some positive signs out of the
government, the fact is that the actions were reactive rather
than proactive,” said  Eduardo Suarez , Latin America currency
strategist at Scotiabank in Toronto, in an e-mailed report to
clients. “We do not believe that they have been enough to
reverse the sentiment deterioration towards management of
economic policy.”  The real’s three-month implied volatility fell to 13.6
percent after rising June 12 to an 11-month high of 14 percent.
The reading was below 10 percent before Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 22 that policy makers may scale back
stimulus efforts if the U.S. employment outlook shows
sustainable improvement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  