-- Brazil World Cup Puzzle Is What to Do With Stadiums at End
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a ,   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-06-14T16:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/brazil-world-cup-puzzle-is-what-to-do-with-stadiums-after-events.html
Anticipation in  Brazil  for next
year’s World Cup is being subdued by concern over what to do
with many of the 12 stadiums hosting matches after soccer’s
biggest tournament ends.  Delays and cost overruns mean that by the time the first
ball is kicked in just under a year, the bill for the new and
refurbished venues probably will exceed the government’s latest
estimate of 7 billion reais ($3.3 billion). Including urban
construction, Brazil is spending 30 billion reais on World Cup
projects.  In a country where soccer is the biggest draw, the outlay
of mostly public money is being used to fulfill the host’s
pledge to make it an event “for all of Brazil.” Constructing
stadiums in cities including Brasilia, Cuiaba and Manaus, none
of which has a team in the top two domestic leagues, may leave
little-used legacy arenas.  “Several of these stadiums risk becoming white
elephants,” Fabiola Dorr, a member of a team set up by Brazil’s
public prosecutors to monitor  World Cup  spending, said in an
interview. “It shows a total lack of planning. For sure, there
will be last-minute contracts that further increase the cost.”  Brasilia’s 71,000-seat Estadio Nacional, at 1.5 billion
reais the costliest arena, has attracted the most attention and
may be the hardest to fill after the World Cup. The 57 games in
Brasilia’s state championship so far this year have pulled fewer
than 50,000 spectators in total, Valor Economico newspaper
reported April 15. The venue will host tomorrow’s opening game
of the  Confederations Cup , an eight-team warm-up for next year’s
global championship.  ‘Ridiculous’  “I find it ridiculous,” Romario, a member of Parliament
who was the  top scorer  on Brazil’s 1994 World Cup-winning squad,
said in an e-mail. “Obviously they didn’t do a financial
viability study for these stadiums for after the tournament.”  About 200 protesters gathered this morning outside the
Brasilia stadium, demanding that the equivalent amount of money
used to build the stadium be used to create housing for the
poor. Some of the protestors used burning tires to block the
road outside the arena.  Pedro Daniel, an economist at BDO Brazil, the country’s
fifth-largest audit firm, said construction costs per seat are
as high as for the most-expensive stadiums built for the 2006
World Cup in  Germany .  “The difference is, in Germany, they were able to fill the
stadiums once the games were over,” Daniel said.  Public Spending  Former Sports Minister Orlando Silva had said in 2007 the
stadium projects wouldn’t require any public money. The latest
estimates show they’ll absorb 6.4 billion reais from public
sources, or 91 percent of the total costs. Silva didn’t respond
yesterday to an e-mail about the plan.  “The cup became a problem at the moment that stadiums were
built with public instead of private money,” added Romario.
“To make things worse, several urban transport projects which
would have been left as legacy were canceled.”  Even local World Cup organizers aren’t sure how some of the
stadiums will be economically viable after the tournament.  “It will all depend on the creativity, the imagination of
the owners and the operators of these stadiums,” Brazilian
soccer federation head Jose Maria Marin said when asked if some
of the venues risked becoming a burden on public finances. “It
will depend on the imagination of each leader.”  Other Uses  Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo said June 10 they could be used
for trade fairs, concerts and other non-sporting events.  Brazil’s Bovespa stock index has declined 18 percent this
year, making it the fourth-worst performing index out of 94 in
the world followed by Bloomberg. The real has risen 4.3 percent
against the dollar this year.  Brazil was the sole bidder for the 2014 World Cup after
 Colombia  backed out before the vote. Leaders of the world’s
second-largest emerging market see the tournament and the
 Olympic Games  in  Rio de Janeiro  two years later as an
opportunity to transform cities by adding infrastructure funded
by the events. According to soccer’s world governing body FIFA,
the South African government said the 2010 World Cup contributed
$5.8 billion to the local economy.  “There is no chance these stadiums will become white
elephants,” Rebelo said on a conference call with journalists.
“They will be much more than football fields. They will be
multipurpose spaces that the cities have lacked before.”  South African Experience  The statements echoed those made by government officials
and organizers of the previous World Cup in South Africa, where
the legacy of building new arenas is proving expensive. The
nation spent more than 27 billion rand ($2.7 billion) on the
event, with about $1.1 billion on building and upgrading
stadiums, according to a report released in November.  The government also used the tournament to expand the
highway system around Johannesburg and build public transport,
including the Gautrain connecting the city with the main
airport.  Cape Town stadium, at 4.5 billion rand the costliest
facility, hosted eight games including a semifinal at the 2010
World Cup. The 68,000-seat arena cost 56 million rand to run
during the last financial year and generated 14 million rand,
city councilor Grant Pascoe said.  Local Debate  Without an anchor tenant, the fate of the stadium, which
hosted a sell-out concert by pop star Justin Bieber on May 8,
has been the subject of local debate. Provincial leader Tony Ehrenreich said last year it should be converted into affordable
housing, while others argued it should be razed.  Durban’s Moses Mabhida Stadium, which hosted the other
World Cup semifinal, also is struggling. The 3.1 billion rand,
56,000-seat facility sits a goal kick away from the similarly
sized Kings Park, which continues to draw the city’s biggest
crowds as home to the Sharks rugby union team.  Moses Mabhida stadium, named for a former general secretary
of  South Africa ’s Communist Party, is now a feature of the city
skyline thanks to a 105-meter arch that has a monorail. It had
an operating loss of 11 million rand for the year through April
2012, according to eThekwini Municipality spokesman Thabo
Mofokeng. He said the council will take control this month once
a contract with stadium operator Municipal Management Services
ends.  Revenue Needed  Ndavhe Ramakuela, director of the Peter Mokaba Stadium
built to host games in Polokwane, said in 2010 the northern city
needed between 10 million rand and 70 million rand to maintain
the arena. By early 2012, it had sales of 4 million rand,
according to a publication from the South African parliament.  “One problem was the idea of sports tourism as a long-term
economic strategy in a carbon-constrained world where transport
costs will soar,” Patrick Bond, senior professor at the
University of KwaZulu-Natal’s School of Built Environment and
Development Studies, said in an e-mail. “Another was the
tendency of hawkish politicians to promote prestige projects,
such as a second, world-class stadium in Durban across the
street from the first one.”  Brazil hasn’t hosted the World Cup since 1950, when it lost
the final game to Uruguay in front of a tournament-record crowd
of 173,850 in Rio’s Maracana stadium. That competition was
played in six cities, five of them in southern Brazil where the
country’s most-popular teams including Rio’s Flamengo and
Corinthians of  Sao Paulo  are based.  Zurich-based  FIFA , which has ultimate control over the
World Cup, requires the tournament host to provide a minimum of
eight stadiums.  Although spreading 64 matches around  12 arenas  risks
creating unprofitable facilities in the future, Brazil’s Rebelo
said local organizers had little option.  “Brazil is a huge country,” the sports minister told
reporters May 16. “How could you have a World Cup in Brazil
that excludes 60 percent of our territory, that excludes the
Amazon region? It cannot be played only in the south, it has to
be played in the cradle of our identity, our culture.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  