-- BSG-Tied Cilins Claims He Tried to Stop Extortion Attempt
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-14T23:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/bsg-tied-cilins-claims-he-tried-to-stop-extortion-attempt.html
A French citizen with ties to BSG
Resources Ltd. said he is innocent of charges he interfered with
a U.S. grand jury probe into bribes paid for mining rights in
Guinea, claiming he was arrested after trying to stop an
extortion attempt by the government’s main witness.  Frederic Cilins, 50, who said he worked as an agent of
BSGR, is charged with trying to pay a cooperating witness to
give him contracts sought by U.S. authorities and to lie about
the alleged bribery scheme. Cilins claimed in a filing in
 Manhattan  federal court yesterday that the contracts are fake
and that he was trying to stop the witness, Mamadie Toure, from
extorting money from him and BSGR.  “Mr. Cilins’ various telephone calls and meetings between
himself and Mamadie Toure in Jacksonville, Florida, in 2013 were
to obtain these false documents so that he and BSGR and others
could no longer be blackmailed and extorted,” Cilins said in
the court filing.  Cilins said he worked in 2005 and 2006 for BSGR, the mining
company controlled by Israeli billionaire Beny Steinmetz, as a
go-between with Guinea in the company’s efforts to secure mining
rights in the country’s Simandou region.  The papers were filed in support of Cilins’s request to
reduce the amount of property necessary to secure a $15 million
bond that was set for his release from custody. A hearing on the
matter is scheduled for June 20.  Fourth Wife  In the court filing, Cilins said Toure, whom prosecutors
said was the fourth wife of former Guinean President Lansana Conte, wasn’t actually married to him. Cilins also claimed Toure
is cooperating with U.S. prosecutors to remain in the country
and avoid prosecution in  Guinea .  Lansana Conte died in 2008 after ruling the West African
nation for 24 years.  Toure didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on Cilins’s claims.  BSGR and Steinmetz declined to comment on Cilins’s court
filing, according to Ian Middleton, a spokesman with
Powerscourt. BSGR has denied wrongdoing in connection with its
Guinean mining interests. Allegations of bribery are motivated
by an “ongoing campaign to seize the assets of BSGR,” the firm
said in a statement May 9.  ‘Politically Motivated’  Cilins said the case against him is “politically
motivated.” Citing evidence from the government, Cilins claims
Alpha Conde, the current president of Guinea, met with President
 Barack Obama  in late 2012 or early 2013 to ask that the U.S.
investigate BSGR’s conduct in connection with Simandou,
according to his court filing.  The meeting was prompted by the relationship between Conde
and billionaire investor  George Soros , Cilins said in the court
filing.  Prosecutors claim Cilins and others visited Toure in Guinea
when Lansana Conte was in office to offer $12 million to Toure
and senior members of Conte’s government for their help in
securing the Simandou mining rights. The arrangement was
allegedly reflected in a series of contracts that Cilins later
tried to get Toure to “urgently destroy.”  The government claims Cilins offered to pay Toure as much
as $6 million to give him the original copies of the contracts,
which were subpoenaed by a federal grand jury in Manhattan. He
also sought to persuade Toure to lie to agents of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, according to prosecutors.  Recorded Conversation  Prosecutors claim that Cilins told Toure, in a recorded
conversation, that he went to an unidentified coconspirator to
talk about the U.S. investigation. In a whisper, Cilins said he
told the coconspirator that Toure would never betray him or turn
over documents, according to a transcript of the conversation
quoted in a court filing by prosecutors last week.  “He told me ‘That’s good, but I want you to go see - I
want you to tell me ‘I saw that the documents [noise] were
destroyed; it’s over, there are no more documents.’”  Cilins was arrested April 14. He’s charged with witness
tampering, obstructing a criminal investigation and destruction
of evidence in a federal investigation. The witness-tampering
and record-destruction charges carry maximum prison terms of 20
years. Cilins has pleaded not guilty.  Cilins is being held on a $15 million bond to be secured by
$5 million in cash or property and the signatures of five
financially responsible people. He’s also required to stay in
his Turnberry Isle,  Florida  home, with electronic monitoring and
guarded 24 hours a day by armed security. His lawyer, Michelle
Smith, is asking that he be released after posting $3.6 million
in real estate.  Cilins, whose wife, four children and other family live in
Antibes,  France , may try to flee if released before trial,
prosecutors argued. Cilins said that he and his business
partners, Avi LevRan and Michael Noy, have done business in
 Africa ,  Canada  and South America.  The case is U.S. v. Cilins, 13-cr-00315, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  