-- Bulgarian President Criticizes Lawmakers for Security Chief Vote
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-06-14T14:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/bulgarian-president-criticizes-lawmakers-for-security-chief-vote.html
Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev
called on Parliament to reconsider the appointment of Delyan
Peevski as head of the State Agency for National Security on
grounds the nomination was nontransparent.  Peevski, 33, a lawmaker from the ethnic Turk Movement of
Rights and Freedoms, Prime Minister Oresharski’s Cabinet junior
coalition partner, was approved in a 114-10 vote with one
abstention, today. Peevski served as deputy minister of
emergencies in charge of state reserve supplies in 2007 in the
Socialist-led government of ex-Premier Sergei Stanishev. He was
fired amid an investigation into extortion and abuse of power.
The investigation was inconclusive. Peevski denied wrongdoing.  “It is inadmissible for the leader of one of the most
important services in the country to be nominated, discussed and
appointed in 15 minutes without any debate, any proposed frame
of reference, any substantiation,” Plevneliev said in a live
television broadcast in Sofia today. “My credit of confidence
has ended. I insist Parliament immediately revises its
decision.”  The European Union has repeatedly criticized  Bulgaria  for
insufficient efforts to fight corruption and organized crime,
urging the Balkan country to investigate graft among senior
government officials. Oresharski’s predecessor, Boyko Borissov,
resigned amid protests against corruption and high utility bills
on Feb. 20 and failed to win an outright majority in May 12
early elections, opening the way for the second-place party, the
Socialists, to form a coalition.  Interests, Protests  Peevski has interests in a dozen national newspapers, two
television stations and businesses ranging from
telecommunications and tobacco to automotive industries, Capital
newspaper reported today, citing unidentified people.  “I will dutifully serve my country and the people,”
Peevski said in parliament today.  Opponents of Peevski’s appointment as security chief called
for nationwide protests to be held tonight and collected about
30,000 supporters on Facebook.  “This practically is a coup d’etat,” Ognian Minchev, a
political analyst and chairman of the Bulgarian unit of
 Transparency International , said by phone. “He represents
corporate and media conglomerates and their political lobbies
directly involved with imposing foreign aggressive interests in
Bulgaria.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  