-- California Is Only State Where Car Insurance Cost Fell, CFA Says
-- B y   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-06-14T17:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/california-is-only-state-where-car-insurance-cost-fell-cfa-says.html
California  is the only U.S. state
where the cost of auto insurance decreased over two decades
through 2010, according to a consumer group that attributes the
decline to a law that gave regulators more control over rates.  Californians spent $746 on average in 2010, $2 less than in
1989, the year after voters gave more power to the state’s
watchdog, the  Consumer Federation of America  said in a  statement 
today. Americans spent $791 on average for auto insurance in
2010, up 43 percent from 1989.  The voter proposition empowered the state’s insurance
regulator to approve rate increases before they were enacted. It
also required insurers to make more data public and enabled
consumer groups to request hearings on company proposals.  “No other state has put in place the kind of strong
oversight that California voters created in 1988, and no other
state has seen auto insurance prices decline,” said J.  Robert Hunter , insurance director for the federation, in the statement.  Nebraska, Louisiana and Montana all had their rates go up
at least 90 percent from 1989 to 2010, the CFA said, citing  data 
from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. New
Jersey, New Hampshire and Hawaii had increases of less than 20
percent. The average climbed 62 percent in New York State.  The  Insurance Information Institute  said the federation was
overstating the connection between the proposition and
California’s rates. One reason motorists may be paying less
there is that high gas taxes pushed drivers to buy smaller
vehicles, which can cost less to insure,  Robert Hartwig ,
president of the institute, said in an interview. Competition
also drives down rates in the most populous state, he said.  “The CFA routinely extols the virtues of this now decades-old piece of legislation,” Hartwig said. “The more important
point to make is that the cost of auto insurance has grown at a
cost below the rate of inflation” in the U.S.  Increased urbanization may have added to risks in states
like Nebraska, and natural disasters such as  Hurricane Katrina 
in 2005 contributed to higher rates in Louisiana, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Hickey in  New York  at 
 mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  