-- California Senate Passes $96.3 Billion Budget Day Early
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-06-14T19:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/california-senate-passes-96-3-billion-budget-day-early.html
California ’s Senate passed a $96.3
billion budget with spending tempered by Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
restrained revenue estimate, even as higher taxes have given the
most-populous U.S. state a surplus for the first time in almost
a decade.  The Senate, controlled by Democrats, passed the measure 28
to 10, and began taking up 21 so-called trailer bills that
detail how the money is spent. The Assembly, in Democrats’ hands
as well, also is expected to vote and pass the package today.  Brown, 75, struck a deal this week with fellow Democrats
who control the legislature to withdraw their demands to spend
the extra money and wait for the state’s economic recovery to
accelerate. His spending plan is up less than 1 percent from
$95.7 billion this fiscal year.  The governor persuaded voters in November to raise income
and sales taxes to end deficits that cumulatively exceeded $100
billion since 2007. He has pledged to use the money from the
temporary boost with restraint. The tax increases and Brown’s
stance on spending won the state a credit-rating upgrade from
 Standard & Poor’s  in January, the first since 2006.  “We are in a slower recovery than has historically been
the case,” Brown said at the Capitol when he announced the
budget agreement June 11. “Therefore, we are tempering the
spending to the flow of the new funding. In general, prudence
rather than exuberance should be the order of the day.”  Deal Wrinkle  Brown insisted that the 2014 spending plan rely on revenue
estimates he announced in May, when he said the state’s growth
would be curbed by higher federal payroll taxes and automatic
U.S. budget cuts, known as sequestration. Democrats had wanted
to use a higher forecast from the nonpartisan Legislative
Analyst’s Office to justify spending about $2 billion more.  To placate party colleagues and pay for additional spending
on programs such as welfare-to-work, mental-health treatment,
vocational education, dental care and college tuition
assistance, Brown agreed to let them assume higher property-tax
receipts than were included in his May estimate, as well as
lower implementation costs for the U.S. Affordable Care Act.  Spending would increase for those programs that Democrats
wanted to add or expand in future years, lawmakers said.  “The whole idea here is to make the most rational
decisions we can with the resources we have,” said Assembly
Speaker John Perez, a Democrat from  Los Angeles , who joined
Brown in a June 11 news briefing on the accord. “We are at the
beginning point of the recovery that we expect to see for the
California economy, not the pinnacle. We are going to ramp up
our reinvestment as we ramp up our recovery.”  Debt ‘Wall’  Brown also agreed to delay repaying schools about $650
million the state owes them from years when funding was withheld
to help erase previous deficits. That money is part of what
Brown likes to call the “wall of debt,” a reference to $35
billion in borrowing that he has promised to pay off.  Schools would get about $3 billion more than in the current
fiscal year, including $1.2 billion to implement new national
curriculum standards adopted by 45 states, including  California .
About $2 billion would go to schools where most students are
poor or studying English as a second language, under a new
formula sought by Brown that would increase their funding.  Democrats had opposed that plan because they said it hurt
poor or English-learning students in wealthier districts. Brown
and legislative leaders reached a compromise that boosts total
per-pupil spending in all districts.  $1.1 Billion Reserve  The budget would borrow $500 million in carbon-allowance
auction proceeds, required by law to be spent on reducing
emissions of pollutants, to cover general expenses. So far the
auctions have generated about $260 million.  Still, the budget would leave the state with a $1.1 billion
reserve to absorb cost overruns or make up the difference if any
revenue fails to meet targets.  California’s fiscal health has been strengthened by the
levy increases on income and retail sales as well as by an
improving economy that has fueled increases in capital-gains tax
revenue. In May, the legislature’s analysis office estimated
revenue would beat budget forecasts by about $4.5 billion.  Brown has insisted that the projected windfall was a one-time infusion from high earners who cashed out investments at
year-end, before U.S. capital-gains rates rose. California’s
fiscal year begins July 1.  Budget Gimmicks  Republicans, whose votes aren’t needed to pass the budget,
lauded the decision to use Brown’s revenue estimate while
criticizing plans to add spending in future years.  “It is promising that Democrats agreed to use the
governor’s more conservative revenue projections instead of
counting on money that may never materialize,” Assembly
Republican Leader Connie Conway of Tulare said in a statement.  “Sadly, the governor was unsuccessful in his efforts to
get Democrats to hold the line on new spending,” Conway said.
“The majority party is using the budget gimmicks of the past to
downplay spending increases. The budget proposal incrementally
ramps up welfare payments that will end up costing taxpayers $1
billion annually.”  Lawmakers must pass a spending plan before June 16 or they
start to lose pay under a 2010 law passed by voters. That
measure also lowered the vote threshold to pass a funding
blueprint to a simple majority instead of two-thirds.  Before the changes, California budgets were routinely late,
including by a record 100 days in 2010 under Republican Governor
 Arnold Schwarzenegger . Since Brown took office in January 2011
and the law’s changes went into effect, the delays have ended.
California last enacted budgets without missing its deadline for
 three consecutive years  in the mid-1980s.  “Ho-hum -- another on-time, balanced budget in
California,” Senate President Pro tem Darrell Steinberg, a
Democrat from  Sacramento ,  joked to reporters . “This is the
third year in a row and this one feels even better than the
first two.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento, California, at   mmarois@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  