-- Calpers Investment Chief Dear Cedes Duties Over Cancer
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-06-15T02:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/calpers-investment-chief-dear-undergoing-cancer-treatment.html
Joseph Dear, who led a $96 billion
post-recession recovery as chief investment officer of the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , has given up
some duties as he fights prostate cancer, the fund said.  Dear, 62, handed his day-to-day responsibilities for the
$259.8 billion system, the largest U.S. pension, to Theodore Eliopoulos, the senior investment officer for real estate, said
 Brad Pacheco , a spokesman for the fund, known as Calpers. Dear
still works in the office and from home, he said.  “This is a personal issue and we respect the privacy of
Joe and his family,” Pacheco said yesterday by e-mail. “We
wish Joe a very successful treatment.”  Prostate cancer is one of the most common forms of the
disease affecting American men, including California Governor
 Jerry Brown , who was treated for it earlier this year. Almost
239,000 cases will be diagnosed in the U.S. this year and the
affliction will kill about 30,000 of its victims, according to
the  American Cancer Society .  Dear took on his Calpers job in March 2009, about two
months after the fund’s assets had reached a recession low of
$164.7 billion, down from a peak of $260.6 billion in October
2007. Under him, assets rebounded to reach a record $267.6
billion on May 21, and stood at $260.7 billion on June 10.  Eliopoulos Restructuring  Eliopoulos, 49, was  California ’s chief deputy treasurer
before joining Calpers in 2006. His real-estate group had a 37
percent loss in fiscal 2010, as it wrote off residential
investments as property values slumped.  Calpers invested about 8 percent of its assets in real
estate as of March 31, or about $21.1 billion, according to its
website. The target allocation for the segment is 9 percent.
About half the fund is in publicly traded stock.  Eliopoulos has restructured the system’s property holdings
to focus on income-producing assets and reduce related debt,
Pacheco said. For the 12 months through April, the segment
gained almost 12 percent, he said.  Public pensions have been under pressure to boost
investment returns after record losses during the global
financial crisis. Calpers, fully funded when the recession began
in December 2007, has about 74 percent of the money it needs to
meet its long-term commitments and has asked the state and
cities to increase contributions.  Under Dear’s hand, the Sacramento-based fund reported a
13.3 percent return on assets last year, compared with a 13.4
percent  gain  for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks.  Asset Gains  Calpers regained its value by sticking to an asset-allocation policy that emphasizes equities, including riskier
stocks, Dear said April 30 at a conference in  Beverly Hills ,
California. He defended the fund’s assumption that it can
achieve a 7.5 percent annual return.  “It’s attainable,” Dear said. “Here’s the thing: In order
to have that kind of return, you have to have a lot of growth-risk in the portfolio.”  The assumed rate of return is used by Calpers and state
policy makers to forecast the gap between the fund’s assets and
projected obligations to retirees. Dear said the pension had
gained 9.1 percent annually for the past three years, and 8.6
percent a year since 1987.  Dear came to Calpers from the Washington State Investment
Board, where he had been executive director since 2002. From
1997 to 2001, he was chief of staff for Washington Governor  Gary Locke , a Democrat who is now the U.S. ambassador to China.  Calpers Membership  Calpers had almost 1.7 million members, including about
552,000 beneficiaries, as of June 2012, according to a fact
sheet on its website. Almost 3,100 government employers,
including state and local agencies and school districts,
contribute to the system along with workers.  The fund’s 13-member governing board is set to hold a
monthly three-day public meeting in Sacramento beginning June
17. Dear usually delivers remarks about investment performance
at such gatherings. Pacheco said Dear may attend some parts of
the conference.  The pension system was developing a  succession plan  for
senior managers when Dear’s illness became known, Pacheco said.
He had no further information on the planning.  Prostate cancer is the second-deadliest form of the disease
for men, after  lung cancer . Most cases are discovered in the
earliest stages, where survival for more than five years is
almost 100 percent, according to the cancer society.  Survivors of the affliction include Brown;  Warren Buffett ,
the billionaire chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ; former  New
York  Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani ; and  Andy Grove , a co-founder of
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest computer chipmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento, California, at   mmarois@bloomberg.net .
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  