-- Canada April Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-06-14T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/canada-april-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s manufacturing shipments report for April released
by  Statistics Canada .  Manufacturing sales fell 2.4% in April to $48.2 billion --
the fourth decline in five months and the largest monthly
percentage drop since August 2009. Lower sales in the petroleum
and coal product, and primary metal industries were largely
responsible for the decline.  Sales were down in 13 of 21 industries, representing about
86% of Canadian manufacturing.  Constant dollar manufacturing sales fell 1.6% as sales
volumes were lower in April.  Sales of durable (-1.6%) and non-durable (-3.2%) goods
declined in April.  Petroleum and coal sales down  Sales of petroleum and coal products fell 8.8% in April to
$6.3 billion -- the lowest level since June 2011. Since November
2012, sales of petroleum and coal products have fallen by 14.0%.
In April, some refineries reported that either maintenance or
the switch to summer fuels required production to be slowed or
halted for a longer than normal period of time.  Primary metal manufacturing sales were down 8.7% in April
to $3.4 billion -- the lowest level since May 2010. There were
widespread declines in the industry, which reflected lower
volumes of goods sold. Sales in the primary metal industry have
declined in four of the past five months. Since November 2012,
sales have fallen by 11.0%.  Sales of transportation equipment were down 1.7% in April,
following two months of gains. Notwithstanding the lower figure,
April’s sales were 14.2% higher than January 2013. Contributing
to the decline was a 2.2% reduction in motor vehicle sales and a
3.3% drop in aerospace production.  Offsetting these decreases was a 4.9% increase in sales of
wood products. Sales of wood products have risen in 11 of the
past 12 months and have reached their highest level since
January 2007. Many wood product manufacturers have indicated
that they have increased both production and sales. Sales were
38.5% higher than April 2012, partially reflecting an increase
in prices of more than 10%.  Largest declines in Quebec and Ontario  Sales fell in eight provinces in April, with the largest
declines in  Quebec  and Ontario.  In Quebec, sales declined 6.8% as both durable and non-durable goods sales were down. Sales of non-durable goods fell
7.5% while sales of durable goods were down 6.2%, reflecting a
12.1% drop in sales of primary metals. Quebec’s sales were $11.0
billion in April, the lowest level since December 2010 as Quebec
manufacturers have reported lower sales in 8 of the past 11
months.  The 1.3% decline in Ontario sales reflected lower sales in
the transportation equipment, petroleum and coal, and primary
metal industries. Ontario sales have fallen in 7 of the past 10
months.  Inventories continue to rise  Inventories rose 0.6% to $69.0 billion in April, the fourth
consecutive increase. April inventory levels were the highest
since this series began in 1992. The increase reflects higher
inventories in the aerospace, and computer and electronic
product industries, which both rose 4.8%.  The inventory-to-sales ratio increased from 1.39 in March
to 1.43 in April.  Unfilled orders edge down  Unfilled orders edged down 0.1% in April, the second
consecutive decline. Notwithstanding this change, April’s
unfilled orders were the fourth highest month on record since
the current series began in 1992.  The decline reflects a 2.0% drop in unfilled orders of
fabricated metal products and a reduction in other
transportation equipment unfilled orders. These were partially
offset by higher unfilled orders in the machinery and aerospace
industries.  New orders fell 0.9% in April, reflecting declines in the
petroleum and coal product, primary metal, and food industries.
New orders were up in the  aerospace industry , partly offsetting
the declines.  Note to readers  Monthly data in this release are seasonally adjusted and
are expressed in current dollars unless otherwise specified.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills, clothing,
leather and allied products, paper, printing and related support
activities, petroleum and coal products, chemicals, and plastics
and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components, transportation
equipment, furniture and related products and miscellaneous
manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the aerospace industry and shipbuilding industries, the
value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting monthly
sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change in inventories
of goods in process and finished products manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will contribute
to future sales assuming that the orders are not cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the current
month or not. New orders are measured as the sum of sales for
the current month plus the change in unfilled orders from the
previous month to the current month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  