-- Canada Dollar Gains to Highest in Month on Rate-Rise Speculation
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-14T21:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/canada-dollar-trades-at-almost-four-week-high-on-factory-growth.html
The Canadian dollar touched the
highest in a month versus its U.S. peer as oil, the nation’s
largest export, advanced and investors bet stronger economic
data may convince the Bank of  Canada  to raise  interest rates .  The currency fluctuated against the  U.S. dollar  as Canadian
factory sales unexpectedly fell in April. Canada’s dollar rose
for the  second week  after the nation posted its strongest job
gains in more than a decade last month and  home construction 
rose the most in 13 months, driving expectations to the highest
in more than a year the Bank of Canada will raise rates.  “With the exception of today, the data in Canada has been
strong, and with the Canadian dollar you always have to consider
that the BOC has a tightening bias,”  Stephen Gallo , head of
European foreign-exchange strategy at Bank of Montreal, said by
phone from  London . “When the data turns up for Canada, you can
get some pretty sizable moves up in the CAD, because they are
hawkish, they do have a hawkish bias.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.1 percent
C$1.0170 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. It earlier strengthened to
C$1.0137, the highest since May 14. One loonie buys 98.33 U.S.
cents.  The currency gained 0.3 percent this week after rallying
1.7 percent the previous week.  Oil, Bonds  Futures on crude oil rose 1.1 percent to $97.79 per barrel
in  New York . The discount Canada faces for its oil compared to
U.S. benchmarks  widened  to $10.25 per barrel after touching its
narrowest in nine months on June 12.  Canada’s 10-year benchmark government  bonds  rose, with
yields falling two basis points. or 0.02 percent, to 2.12
percent after reaching 2.21 percent June 12, the highest in 15
months. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 added 15
cents to C$94.47.  Futures traders  decreased their bets  that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the greenback, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The
difference in the number of wagers on a decline in the loonie
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
35,907 on June 11, compared with net shorts of 39,776 a week
earlier.  The  Bank of Canada , whose key interest rate of 1 percent is
the highest among the Group of Seven nations, is the only
central bank among them with a leaning, or bias, toward higher
rates. New central-bank Governor Stephen Poloz reiterated that
stance in his first public comments on June 6. Poloz will give
his first speech as governor on June 19 in Oakville, Ontario.  ‘Good Fundamentals’  “I’m lining up the Canadian dollar against euro zone
economies, against other G10 economies, and generally speaking
Canada can still boast a decent amount of good fundamentals,”
said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabobank
International by phone from London. “The ultra-bearish view has
certainly taken a big knock, but I think in order to dismiss it
entirely we have to wait until we see improved U.S. data.”  Canadian  manufacturing sales  dropped 2.4 percent to C$48.2
billion ($47.4 billion),  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa, while
inventories rose to the highest in records dating to 1992.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast sales would rise 0.3
percent. A separate report showed wholesale  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. fell to 82.7 in June from a
six year high of 84.5 the prior month, according to the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart traded at 7.20 percent, its
lowest point since May 17. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  The Canadian dollar has declined more this week than the
currencies of fellow commodity exporting countries among a
basket of nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The loonie has lost 0.98
percent compared to the Australian dollar’s 0.4 percent loss and
the New Zealand currency’s 0.92 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  