-- McCafferty Says BOE Policy Should Reflect Cause of Pound’s Drop
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-06-14T09:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/mccafferty-says-boe-policy-should-reflect-cause-of-pound-s-drop.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Ian McCafferty  said officials should decide whether to accommodate a
consumer-price shock from a drop in the pound based on the
reasons for the move in the currency.  Were the pound to fall due to “concerns about the MPC’s
commitment to price stability, resulting in an increase in
inflation expectations, then I strongly believe that the case
for accommodation would be much weaker,” he said in a speech in
 London  today. Were the decline to reflect real factors such as
rebalancing, “it would not be sensible to prevent the real
adjustment by tightening monetary policy.”  Accommodating price shocks is suitable only if that leads
to no second-round effects on wages and prices, he said. On a
trade-weighted basis, the pound fell 7.1 percent since the start
of the year through mid-March, though it has since recovered
about half its losses.  The U.K.’s experience with record inflation in the 1970s
should remind officials of the consequences of failing to keep
expectations for price gains well anchored, he said. The
Monetary Policy Committee’s “flexible inflation targeting” --
looking through recent price shocks in favor of supporting the
economic recovery -- hasn’t yet dislodged expectations, he said.  “This must not lead us into complacency,” he said.
“Recent evidence derived from financial markets has been a
little less encouraging.”  The central bank said in its quarterly bulletin published
yesterday that expectations risk becoming dislodged because
consumer-price growth has been elevated for such a long time.
Inflation has exceeded the 2 percent goal every month since
December 2009.  “That inflation expectations have remained anchored, and
domestic underlying inflation remains modest, is proof that our
flexible approach to inflation targeting has not jeopardised our
credibility,” he said. “We are well aware that a loss of
credibility would effectively amount to a loss of flexibility.”  “It is the MPC’s successful track record of low and stable
inflation in the decade that preceded the financial crisis that
has given the public confidence in our commitment to  price
stability ,” he said. “We must not take it for granted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  