-- McDonnell Probe Taints Cuccinelli Virginia Governor Bid
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-06-14T04:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/mcdonnell-probe-taints-cuccinelli-virginia-governor-bid.html
A federal investigation into a
 Virginia  businessman’s political ties is threatening to harm the
reputations of Republican Governor  Bob McDonnell , an often
mentioned prospective presidential candidate, and the man
running to replace him.  Ken Cuccinelli , the state’s attorney general and Republican
gubernatorial nominee, is squaring off against former Democratic
National Committee Chairman Terry McAuliffe in a race testing
the staying power of the diverse voting bloc that backed
President  Barack Obama  2008 and 2012 and turned Virginia into a
swing state.  For Cuccinelli, who like McDonnell has links to the
targeted businessman, the timing of the investigation’s
progression couldn’t be worse: a related trial, which will focus
on felony embezzlement charges against the governor’s former
chef, is scheduled to be held in mid-October.  “That’s when the last of the voters start paying attention
to the election” held on Nov. 5, said Quentin Kidd, the
director of the Judy Ford Wason Center for Public Policy at
Christopher Newport University in  Newport News , Virginia.  “I think a lot of people on both the Democratic and
Republican side are looking at that trial, at the schedule, and
saying that it could throw a wrench into the last couple weeks”
of the campaign, Kidd said.  2014 Momentum  The outcome of the governor’s race is likely to influence
whether Virginia remains in the competitive presidential state
column or is nudged toward the Democrats. It also may establish
momentum for the 2014 midterms when control of the  U.S. Senate 
will be in play and Virginia Senator  Mark Warner , a Democrat, is
up for re-election.  The federal probe centers on Jonnie Williams, chief
executive officer of  Star Scientific Inc. (STSI) , a former cigarette
maker that has shifted into marketing a nutritional supplement
and skin cream. The FBI is examining whether McDonnell and his
family took gifts from Williams in exchange for favors that
helped promote Star and its dietary products.  Williams, whose firm donated $108,500 worth of in-kind  air
travel  to help elect McDonnell in 2009 and cover travel expenses
during his tenure, paid $15,000 in catering expenses at the June
2011 wedding of the governor’s daughter. Two months later, the
company promoted a dietary supplement, Anatabloc, to doctors
attending a luncheon at the governor’s  mansion , according to
court records.  McDonnell has said he didn’t list the catering payment on
his state financial disclosure forms because it was a gift to
his daughter. He has said his administration never gave any
preferential treatment to Williams or his company.  No Wrongdoing  “I don’t ever do anything, whether it’s with Mr. Williams
or his company -- or any other person or any other company -- to
give anybody any special treatment,” McDonnell said in an April
30 interview at a Bloomberg  Washington  Summit.  Williams’s company, which had $6 million in sales last
year, disclosed this year that it and its directors are being
investigated by the U.S. Attorney’s office for stock sales and
other transactions dating back to 2006. Star Scientific is also
being sued by shareholders claiming it misled investors about
academic research into its products.  In 1994, Williams settled a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission complaint alleging he helped spread misleading claims
about a pharmaceutical company in order to inflate the value of
its stock.  Cuccinelli’s ties to Williams were underscored in April,
when he amended his financial disclosure forms to include
previously unreported gifts he received from the businessman,
including the use of a vacation home. Cuccinelli has said his
omission was inadvertent.  Tax Issue  Star Scientific is also fighting in court a $1.7 million
tax assessment from Virginia. Cuccinelli’s office in April
appointed an outside  law firm  to handle the case to avoid
concerns about conflicts of interest. He also appointed a
Richmond prosecutor to look into possible violations by himself
or McDonnell of the state’s financial disclosure laws.  McDonnell’s ex-chef, Todd Schneider, is scheduled to go to
trial Oct. 15 on charges that he took state property from the
governor’s mansion. The case is expected to spotlight Williams’s
connections to Virginia’s two leading Republicans.  Schneider has said in court filings that he apprised
federal investigators about Williams’s efforts to ingratiate
himself with McDonnell, and that Cuccinelli had conflicts of
interest because of his ties to the businessman.  “Depending on how big this gets with respect to McDonnell,
there’s no doubt about it, some of the controversy will hurt the
Cuccinelli campaign as well,” said Stephen Farnsworth, a
political scientist at the University of Mary Washington in
Fredericksburg, Virginia.  No ‘Special Benefits’  Star Scientific denies any wrongdoing in its dealings with
politicians. ‪“Our company neither sought nor received any
special benefits from any public official and was glad to be
part of any effort to promote business and create jobs in the
Commonwealth of Virginia,” spokeswoman Talhia Tuck said in a
statement.  Polls show a close race between Cuccinelli and McAuliffe. A
poll in May by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University 
gave McAuliffe a slight advantage, 43 percent to 38 percent. A
Washington Post survey, also last month, put Cuccinelli ahead,
46 percent to 41 percent.  Poll results also showed the federal investigation isn’t
resonating much now with an electorate more concerned about jobs
and the economy. In the Quinnipiac  survey , just 12 percent of
Virginians said the McDonnell-Williams ties were a “major
issue,” compared to 44 percent who said it was “just
politics” and 42 percent who had no opinion.  Voter Attitudes  “I think McAuliffe or somebody is going to bring it up,
but I don’t know if it will be that weighty an issue with the
voters unless it looks like bribery or fraud,” said Toni-Michelle Travis, a political scientist at  George Mason
University  in Fairfax, Virginia.  “If it’s just lack of reporting, that’s one thing. If it’s
deeper than that, then McAuliffe will go after it,” she said.  Other Democrats already are.  Cuccinelli’s “blatant conflicts of interest clearly
demonstrate that he can’t be trusted to effectively represent
the interests of Virginia taxpayers,” Danny Kanner, a spokesman
for the Washington-based Democratic Governors Association, which
is backing McAuliffe’s campaign, said in a statement.  ‘Up Front’  A spokeswoman for Cuccinelli’s campaign said in a statement
that he “has consistently demonstrated a commitment to
transparency and accountability and that includes being up front
and honest with Virginians.”  Anna Nix, the spokeswoman, also sought to turn the tables
on the Democrats, saying Cuccinelli’s actions “stand in stark
contrast to  Terry McAuliffe , who refuses to release his tax
returns and is consistently plagued with business failures,
including his struggling electric car company GreenTech.”  The extent to which the probe will affect McDonnell’s
political standing depends on what it uncovers.  “I think it’s going to hurt the governor’s reputation as
kind of a straight-shooter, but it’s hard to say at this point
how much it hurts him,” said Kidd.  Barred by state law from seeking another term this year,
McDonnell was a surrogate for Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  in
last year’s presidential race and was mentioned as a potential
running mate on the ticket.  “If these investigations clear up quickly, you might see
him make a run at a presidential campaign” in 2016, Farnsworth
said. “But with these issues hanging over his head and the
large numbers of Republicans also being talked about for 2016,
McDonnell’s star has faded, it seems to me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  