-- CDW Seeking $641.7 Million in IPO Following 2007 Buyout
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-06-14T16:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/cdw-seeking-641-7-million-in-ipo-following-2007-buyout-2-.html
CDW Corp., the technology supply
company owned by Madison Dearborn Partners LLC and Providence
Equity Partners Inc., filed to raise as much as $641.7 million
in a U.S. initial public offering.  The company and existing holders are offering 27.9 million
shares at $20 to $23 each, according to a regulatory filing
today. Vernon Hills, Illinois-based CDW plans to list on the
Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol CDW.  CDW is pursuing the IPO almost six years after its purchase
in October 2007, toward the end of the biggest buyout boom on
record. A surge in U.S. stocks this year has allowed private-equity firms to fetch more attractive prices for companies they
acquired before the financial crisis. Now, investors concerned
the U.S. may taper stimulus spending and damp the stock market’s
climb may cool toward such offerings, Jeffrey Sica, of Sica
Wealth Management LLC, said.  “Sentiment is there and confidence has maintained itself
to a point, but it’s all centered around Fed policy,” said
Sica, who oversees about $1 billion as the Morristown, New
Jersey-based firm’s chief investment officer. Private-equity
firms “feel they have a very limited window, and they know they
have to get these things out now.”  Owners’ Gain  At the midpoint of the  price range , CDW would be valued at
about $6.93 billion including debt, or 8.9 times adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of $778.8 million in the 12 months through March 31, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  That compares with the median multiple of about 5.7 times
for computer resellers  EPlus Inc. (PLUS) ,  Insight Enterprises Inc. (NSIT)  and
 PC Connection Inc. (PCCC) , which CDW names as competitors in its
filing.  CDW plans to sell 23.25 million of the shares in the
offering, while other owners will sell 4.65 million, filings
show. Madison Dearborn’s ownership of CDW will fall to 38
percent from 46 percent, while Providence will pare its stake to
34 percent from 41 percent.  The company’s market value at the midpoint would be about
$3.6 billion, with the existing owners’ portion worth about $3.1
billion, the data show. That represents a 45 percent gain over
their original $2.15 billion investment, according to CDW’s
filings and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Takeover Value  CDW generated more than $10 billion in  revenue  last year,
providing software and hardware to corporate and government
clients. Madison and Providence’s 2007 takeover of CDW valued
the company at $7.28 billion, or about 13 times adjusted Ebitda
of $581.9 million for the 12 months through Dec. 31, 2007,
filings show. The earnings figures are adjusted to exclude
stock-based compensation and costs related to acquisitions and
debt extinguishment.  CDW, which also provides cloud-computing, security and
mobility services to more than 250,000 customers, joins HD
Supply Holdings Inc. in proceeding with an IPO this month. The
Atlanta-based construction-supply company owned by Carlyle Group
LP, Bain Capital LLC and Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC is seeking
as much as $1.33 billion in a June 26 IPO, according to filings
and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Through yesterday the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
 slipped  2 percent since hitting a record on May 21, paring this
year’s gain to about 15 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  has said the
central bank may scale back bond buying if the U.S. labor market
“improves in a real and sustainable way.”  Private-Equity Gains  While shares sold in all U.S. IPOs this year have gained an
average of 23 percent in trading, some of the largest deals have
been by private equity-backed companies whose shares have
outpaced that average.  SeaWorld Entertainment Inc., the aquatic theme-park
operator owned by Blackstone Group LP, raised $807.3 million
including an over-allotment in April. The shares gained 38
percent in trading through yesterday. Pinnacle Foods Inc., the
Blackstone-owned maker of Hungry-Man dinners, raised $667
million in a March IPO including an over-allotment and has
gained 26 percent through yesterday.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays Plc and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. are leading CDW’s offering. The company filed for the IPO
using a $500 million placeholder amount in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  