-- Chicago Hospital Accused of Cutting Throats for $160,000
-- B y   C h a r l e s   R .   B a b c o c k
-- 2013-06-15T04:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/chicago-hospital-accused-of-cutting-throats-for-160-000.html
A surgeon at Chicago’s Sacred Heart
Hospital cut a hole in Earl Nattee’s throat on Jan. 3, the day
before he died. It’s not clear why.  The medical file contained no explanation of the need for
the procedure, called a  tracheotomy , according to a state and
federal inspection report that quotes Sacred Heart’s chief
nursing officer as saying it happened “out of the blue.”
Tracheotomies are typically used to open an air passage directly
to the windpipe for patients who can’t breathe otherwise.  Now, amid a federal investigation into allegations of
unneeded tracheotomies at the hospital, Nattee’s daughter,
Antoinette Hayes, wonders whether her father was a pawn in what
an FBI agent called a scheme to defraud Medicare and Medicaid.  “My daddy said, ‘They’re killing me,’” Hayes recalled, in
reference to the care he received at the hospital.  Based in part on surreptitious tape recordings, an FBI
affidavit lays out allegations that a Sacred Heart pulmonologist
kept patients too sedated to breathe on their own, then ordered
unneeded tracheotomies for them -- enabling the for-profit
hospital to reap revenue of as much as $160,000 per case.  The Sacred Heart case is unusual because of the troubling
nature of some of the allegations, said Ryan Stumphauzer, a
former federal health care fraud prosecutor in Miami who
reviewed the affidavit. “A typical indictment might allege
phantom billing or improper coding,” he said. “This complaint
alleges the hospital and doctors were performing unnecessary
invasive surgery to justify false billing.”  It’s also unusual to have recordings from cooperating
witnesses, he said, “but it is always very difficult to
challenge a physician’s judgment.”  Fraud Charges  The government has already charged  Sacred Heart  owner
Edward Novak, his chief financial officer and five physicians
with Medicare fraud, in a criminal complaint alleging that they
gave or received kickbacks in return for patient referrals.  A physician and two Sacred Heart administrators worked with
federal investigators, secretly taping conversations with other
hospital staff members, according to the  complaint . The 90-page
FBI affidavit includes a quote attributed to Novak saying
tracheotomies were the hospital’s “biggest money maker.” The
hospital’s pulmonologist, or respiratory specialist, is quoted
as saying during an April conversation that Novak asked him “to
provide two more tracheotomy cases for the hospital soon,”
before inspectors -- who had visited the hospital in March --
returned.  Sergio Acosta, an attorney representing Novak, said his
client declined to comment. Robert Clarke, attorney for Sacred
Heart CFO Roy Payawal, also declined to comment.  Death Rate  A Sacred Heart surgeon performed tracheotomies on 28
Medicare patients between early 2010 and January, according to
the affidavit, which doesn’t identify the surgeon by name. Five
patients died within two weeks -- a death rate three times the
statewide rate in  Illinois .  The affidavit quotes a nursing supervisor as saying the
hospital’s pulmonologist directed an ICU nurse to “snow the
patient” in one case -- a phrase that means to sedate the
patient so heavily that only the whites of the eyes were
visible, according to the complaint.  The affidavit identified the pulmonologist only as
“Physician D” and said he chairs Sacred Heart’s Critical Care
Committee. That position is held by Venkata Buddharaju,
according to his attorney, Thomas Breen. Buddharaju, who hasn’t
been charged with any violations, declined to be interviewed for
this story, citing the ongoing investigation, Breen said in an
e-mailed statement.  ‘Preposterous’ Suggestion  “While it would appear that Dr. Buddharaju is Physician D
in the complaint based on his job title and his chairmanship of
the Critical Care Committee, the rest of the description and
allegations do not conform to the medical care or decisions made
by Dr. Buddharaju,” said Breen, a former state prosecutor.  His client “does not use the word ‘snow,’ and it is
preposterous to suggest that he does,” Breen said. “The other
allegations in the complaint are equally untrue.”  The affidavit contains an allegation that tracheotomy
patients were lucrative for doctors as well as the hospital: The
physician could bill $160 each time he visited a tracheotomy
patient at the hospital, versus $32 for seeing a ventilator
patient in a nursing home.  The state Medicaid program paid Buddharaju more than any
other physician at Sacred Heart for such patient visits in the
six months that ended Dec. 30, according to state records. A
Sacred Heart surgeon, Vittorio Guerriero, received seven of the
nine Medicaid payments made for tracheotomies at the hospital
during that period, records show. In both cases, the billing
rate was about double that of previous years.  Inspection Report  Anthony Onesto, a lawyer for Guerriero, declined to
comment, saying he hadn’t received his client’s permission to
discuss the case. Guerriero hasn’t been charged in the case.  State and federal regulators were also scrutinizing Sacred
Heart’s tracheotomies. In a “statement of deficiencies” dated
March 12, they cited the hospital’s failure to document a reason
for performing the procedure on an individual identified as
“patient No. 3.” While their report doesn’t identify the
patient by name, his gender, age and date of death match up with
those of Earl Nattee, who died at 76 on Jan. 4 after a
tracheotomy the day before.  The cause of death was listed as pneumonia and renal
failure. Buddharaju’s name is on the death certificate. Nattee
ran a mini-mart in  Chicago  for many years, Hayes said.  The same inspection report details the case of Patient No.
8, who was admitted in November, 2012, and given a tracheotomy
on Nov. 17. By the end of that month, he had an infection that
was recorded as being acquired in the hospital, the report says.
He died Dec. 1 of what the report describes as end-stage liver
disease.  ‘Went Downhill’  That description aligns with the case of Naaman Durham, 48,
a former exterminator who was receiving federal disability
benefits and had a drinking problem, according to his sister,
Mayola Nash of Chicago. Durham was sent to Sacred Heart from a
local nursing home after he had a seizure, Nash said.  “After they signed him in, he just went downhill,” she
said.  Since Novak’s arrest, the hospital has continued to
operate, though he has stepped aside from his post as chief
executive officer for the time being. His tenure as CEO goes
back 25 years to when he took over the financially troubled
Franklin Boulevard Community Hospital, turned it into a for-profit venture and renamed it Sacred Heart, said Patrick DeMoon,
who was an assistant administrator at Franklin Boulevard.  A licensed pharmacist turned health care entrepreneur,
Novak’s other ventures include a home health agency, a kidney
dialysis center, an adult day care center and a malpractice
insurance company.  $10 Million Bail  Sacred Heart, which is located on Chicago’s west side, in a
neighborhood with half the median  household income  and twice the
poverty rate of the city overall, has been filling less than
half its 119 beds in recent years, according to reports it files
with the Medicare program. Almost all its customers are Medicare
or Medicaid recipients, according to state and federal reports.  Still, Novak reported a jump in profit to $9.4 million for
the year ended June 30, 2012 -- up from $1.3 million the
previous year. After his arrest in April, he posted $10 million
in cash to make bail, according to  Randall Samborn , a spokesman
for the U.S. attorney’s office for the Northern District of
Illinois.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles R. Babcock in Washington at 
 cbabcock1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  