-- Chicago Gasoline Weakens Ninth Straight Day as Refineries Return
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-06-14T18:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/chicago-gasoline-weakens-ninth-straight-day-as-refineries-return.html
Chicago gasoline on the  spot market 
weakened against futures for a ninth consecutive day to the
lowest level since April 11 after refineries in the area
returned from planned maintenance.  Conventional, 85-octane gasoline tumbled 21 cents to 13
cents a gallon below futures on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 2:40 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
spread has fallen every day since reaching a record 54-cent-a-gallon premium on June 3.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  completed a plantwide turnaround last
week at its Joliet, Illinois, refinery. BP Plc has said it will
restart by the end of this month its Whiting, Indiana,
refinery’s Pipestill 12, which has been shut since November to
convert it into a processor of mostly heavy Canadian  crude oil .  “Exxon was out there buying last week and now we’re
hearing they’re selling it,” said Jim Mosby, partner at ADMO
Energy LLC, a supply consultant in  Kansas City , Kansas.  The major oil refineries serving the Chicago market are
Exxon Joliet; Citgo Petroleum Corp.’s Lemont, Illinois,
refinery;  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Whiting, Indiana, plant; the  Phillips 66 (PSX)  site
in Roxana, Illinois; and  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) ’s Robinson,
Illinois, plant.  Inventories in the area climbed  855,000 barrels  to 49.2
million in the week ended June 7 after falling to the lowest
level since November last month, according to U.S. Energy
Information Administration data.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  in Chicago, a rough measure of
refining margins based on West Texas Intermediate in Cushing,
Oklahoma, slid $6.39 to $22.18 a barrel, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  