-- Chile and Peru Keep Rates Unchanged to Gauge Extent of Slowdown
-- B y   P h i l i p   S a n d e r s   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-06-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/chile-and-peru-keep-rates-unchanged-to-gauge-extent-of-slowdown.html
Chile and Peru left their benchmark
 interest rates  unchanged yesterday as policy makers expect
growth to accelerate after slowing in the first quarter.  Chile’s central bank left its key rate at 5 percent for the
17th consecutive month, while Peru kept its  benchmark rate  at
4.25 percent for a 25th month, matching  Malaysia  for the longest
pause in  developing countries . Both decisions were expected by
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Economic growth slowed in both nations in the first quarter
as declining copper prices damped exports and crimped an
investment boom that made them among the fastest expanding
economies in Latin America last year. With inflation below the
target range in Chile and within the target band in  Peru , policy
makers have room to cut rates should signs of weaker demand
become clear, said Felipe Hernandez, an analyst at RBS
Securities Inc.  “Until we see some signs of moderation in Chile’s labor
market, the central bank will remain cautious,” Hernandez said
by phone from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Peruvian officials still
sound very constructive and bullish so they will wait for more
evidence of a slowdown before cutting.”  Chile’s economy grew 4.1 percent in the first quarter from
the year earlier, down from 5.7 percent in the previous three
months, while Peru’s growth slowed to 4.8 percent from 5.9
percent.  Cut Debate  Copper, the largest export for both Chile and Peru, has
fallen 13 percent in  New York  this year, deterring investment
and damping growth.  That slowdown and the lowest inflation rate in  Latin
America  mean Chilean policy makers probably will cut the key
rate to 4.75 percent next month, economists surveyed by the
central bank forecast this week.  Chile’s central bank debated the possibility of a rate cut
at last month’s meeting, before deciding that strong demand
justified leaving rates on hold, according to the minutes of the
discussion released on June 3. Minutes from yesterday’s meeting
will be published June 28.  Retail sales leaped 11.2 percent in April from the year
earlier, the fastest pace since August, even as manufacturing
growth stagnated and a four-year decline in unemployment slowed.  Peru Outlook  In Peru, policy makers expect gross domestic product to
rise 6.4 percent in the second quarter, and increase 6.1 percent
this year, bank President Julio Velarde said in Congress on June
5. First quarter growth of 4.8 percent was the slowest in more
than three years.  A deceleration in credit growth led the central bank to
reduce the reserve ratio for some lenders this month by
establishing a 20 percent ceiling. Velarde said in a June 6
interview the move was “slightly expansive” and was prompted
by concern that the economy was slowing.  Jorge Pastrana, an economist at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a
June 10 report that Peru’s economic slowdown may not be
temporary and that the central bank will cut its key rate 50
basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 3.75 percent this
year. The timing depends on when the slowdown “becomes
evident,” he wrote.  Chile ’s  Imacec index , a proxy for GDP, grew 4.4 percent in
April from the year before, less than the 5 percent forecast by
analysts, even though the month contained two more working days
than in 2012. Economic activity expanded 3 percent in March, the
slowest pace in 20 months.  Subdued Inflation  Inflation is also weakening.  Chilean prices  rose 0.9
percent in the year through May, the least since April 2010 and
compared with 2 percent in  Colombia  and 4.63 percent in  Mexico .
Chile targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  Peru’s annual inflation rate has fluctuated between 2.3
percent and 2.6 percent for the past four months, and will end
the year at close to 2 percent, according to the central bank.
Policy makers target inflation of 2 percent plus or minus one
percentage point.  “In Peru we’ve seen a deceleration in the foreign sector,
but not in internal demand, so the central bank isn’t convinced
that it has to do something yet,”  Roberto Melzi , head of fixed
income investment strategy at Peruvian pension fund manager AFP
Integra SA, said by phone from  Lima . “In Chile the most recent
retail sales surprised to the upside and that is consistent with
a view of leaving rates unchanged.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Philip Sanders in London at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  