-- China’s Media Demand U.S. Explain Hacking Exposed by Snowden
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-14T09:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/china-state-media-demand-u-s-explain-hacking-exposed-by-snowden.html
China  should seek more information
from former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden
and demand the U.S. explain itself over the surveillance program
he exposed, the nation's government-controlled media said.  Snowden, 29, who fled to Hong Kong after revealing the NSA
program, may provide evidence that China could use to negotiate
with the U.S., the English-language Global Times newspaper said.
The  China Daily  faulted the U.S. for accusing China of cyber-attacks while running its own hacking program.  “The  United States  owes China an explanation about its
hacking activities and should show more sincerity in the future
when engaging in cybersecurity cooperation,” China Daily said,
citing Beijing-based experts.  Snowden’s disclosures about the NSA’s collection of
telephone and Internet data provoked charges of hypocrisy among
Chinese state media after President  Barack Obama ’s
administration accused China in recent months of being behind a
series of hacker attacks. The revelations may result in China
seeking concessions if it’s to cooperate with any extradition
request as part of a U.S. Justice Department probe into Snowden.  “China is going to cooperate with the U.S., but not for
free,” said Jean-Pierre Cabestan, a political science professor
at Hong Kong Baptist University. “China would like to get
something in exchange.”  Since taking back control of Hong Kong from the U.K. in
1997, China has allowed the city to maintain broad autonomy and
permits protests and dissent there that would be stifled in the
mainland. While Hong Kong would decide on any U.S. request to
extradite Snowden, China can refuse the transfer if it’s related
to defense and foreign affairs.  Snowden’s Case  China is following developments in Snowden’s case, Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a briefing in Beijing
today. She declined to comment when asked how China would
respond to any U.S. extradition attempt.  “What cyberspace needs is not war or hegemony, not
irresponsible attacks, but regulation and cooperation,” Hua
said. She said China looks forward to more dialogue with the
U.S. on cybersecurity.  Civic groups in  Hong Kong  plan to protest tomorrow to
demand that Hong Kong grant Snowden asylum and call on the U.S.
not to seek his extradition. About 500 people are expected to
attend, said Damon Wong, a member of Hong Kong In-media, the
main organizer of the event. Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television the city will
handle the case according to the law.  No Say  “Hong Kong has no say whatsoever,” Hong Kong Legislative
Council member Ronny Tong said on Bloomberg Television today.
“That’s why you see our chief executive not saying anything at
all. He is waiting instructions from Beijing. I think Beijing is
sitting back, probably enjoying the moment, before deciding what
they want to do next.”  Keywords related to Snowden’s name haven’t been banned on
Sina Corp.’s Twitter-like Weibo microblog service, according to
GreatFire.org, which monitors censored posts on the Internet.  Snowden was a former technical assistant for the Central
Intelligence Agency and had worked for the National Security
Agency in the past four years for contractors including  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , according to the U.K. Guardian and
the  Washington  Post, which originally reported his revelations
about the NSA surveillance.  He fled to Hong Kong before naming himself as the source
behind the stories in the Guardian and the Post. In an interview
with the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post, Snowden said
the U.S. had been hacking computers in Hong Kong and mainland
China since 2009.  Cybersecurity Debate  Hong Kong lawmakers will request a debate over
cybersecurity when the Legislative Council meets next, on June
19, according to proceedings of the legislature’s House
Committee broadcast on Cable TV today.  Counterintelligence and criminal investigators in the U.S.
are examining whether Snowden might have been recruited or
exploited by China. The U.S. is working on “a thorough scrub”
of Snowden’s possible ties to China, Representative Mike Rogers,
chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, told reporters in
Washington yesterday.  While China probably doesn’t want Snowden to enter the
mainland, it probably wants to talk to him, said Liu Weidong, a
scholar at the Institute of American Studies at the  Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences  in Beijing.  “It’s a good opportunity to learn something, to know
something,” Liu said in a telephone interview today. “They
will want to know some detailed information from him.”  Fueled Debate  Snowden’s revelations put the U.S. in an embarrassing
situation and have fueled a debate over the balance between
personal freedom and national security, the Chinese Communist
Party’s flagship People’s Daily newspaper said today. In its
editorial, the Global Times said the Snowden case may test
bilateral ties, adding that his revelations “upgraded our
understanding of cyberspace.”  “The Chinese government should acquire more solid
information from Snowden if he has it, and use it as evidence to
negotiate with the U.S.,” the editorial said. “Snowden is a
political offender against the U.S. but what he is doing
benefits the world.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Wong in Hong Kong at 
 awong478@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  