-- China’s Zhejiang Province Proposes to Let Cities Limit Vehicles
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-14T07:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/china-s-zhejiang-province-proposes-to-let-cities-limit-vehicles.html
China ’s eastern Zhejiang province is
proposing to allow its cities to limit the number of new
vehicles to control traffic congestion, the latest in the
world’s largest auto market to consider such restrictions.  The Zhejiang legislative affairs office held a briefing
today in the provincial capital of Hangzhou to discuss the draft
plan released last week, according to a statement posted on its
website. The  plan  included provisions empowering cities to limit
the issue of new vehicle-license plates, increase parking
charges and improve public transportation.  The plan, if approved, will pave the way for cities such as
Hangzhou and Ningbo to follow Beijing, Guangzhou, Shanghai and
Guiyang in limiting auto purchases. China is grappling with air
pollution and worsening traffic congestion in its major cities
as the number of vehicles surged with government subsidies in
2009 to spur domestic demand during the global financial crisis.  “With worsening traffic jams in major cities, we may see
more and more cities adopting measures to limit vehicle
purchases or usage,” said Xu Minfeng, an analyst with Central
China Securities Holdings in  Shanghai . “Over the long term,
such measures will damp vehicle purchases in China.”  Zhejiang lies south of Shanghai and is home to many of the
country’s biggest private companies, including Zhejiang Geely
Holding Group Co., the owner of Volvo Cars, and Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd. The province had 6.75 million civilian vehicles as
of the end of 2011, the fourth highest tally in the country,
according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics.  Xi’an, home of China’s terracotta warriors, discussed
limiting vehicle ownership last year to control traffic
congestion.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  