-- China to Aid Solar Industry by Easier Financing: Cabinet
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-15T04:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/china-to-aid-solar-industry-by-easier-financing-cabinet.html
China , the world’s biggest maker of
solar panels, will boost domestic demand for solar-generated
electricity and provide easier financing to manufacturers as
rising trade tensions slow exports.  Grid companies should build networks that will be
operational   in sync with solar-generation projects and give
priority access to their produced power, while lenders need to
help panel makers raise capital, according to a statement on the
central government’s  website  yesterday after a State Council
meeting. Authorities will also implement 10 steps to cut air
pollution, including curbing dirty projects and making local
governments more accountable for environmental management.  China’s solar-panel industry, which supplies more than half
the world market, is unprofitable amid a global glut and slower
economic growth that’s cut demand. The European Union this month
imposed provisional tariffs of 11.8 percent on imports of solar
panels from Chinese companies after an investigation found they
were being sold in the 27-nation bloc at less than their
production cost.  “We must support the solar-panel industry overcoming
difficulties and pursuing healthy development,” according to
the statement from the State Council Premier  Li Keqiang ’s
Cabinet. “While solidifying competitiveness in the global
market, we need to stimulate effective domestic demand for solar
power and spur innovation and advancement,” it said.  Loan Defaults  The government will encourage mergers and acquisitions
among solar companies and curb blind expansion, the State
Council said.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-biggest wafer maker, said
in April that it was seeking a new loan facility of about 2
billion  yuan  ($326 million) from local banks. With debt of $2.9
billion and eight straight quarterly losses, it failed to fully
repay $23.8 million in bonds due April 15. The biggest unit of
 Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  went into bankruptcy in March after
it defaulted on $541 million of bonds.  Suntech’s default sparked concern that other Chinese solar
companies may have trouble repaying debt and will make financing
“more difficult” for other producers, Xie Jian, chief
operating officer of  JA Solar Holdings Co. (JASO)  China’s largest
solar-cell maker, said in an interview on March 21.  The EU anti-dumping levy on Chinese solar panels is
scheduled to rise to 47.6 percent for about 130 producers and as
high as 67.9 percent in August, should Chinese and EU officials
fail to resolve the dispute.  ’Tough Measures’  Li said yesterday trade protectionism is a “blind alley”
and called for cooperation and free trade to help bolster a
global economic recovery, the official  Xinhua News Agency  said,
citing comments he made at a meeting with  Klaus Schwab , chairman
of the  World Economic Forum .  In its statement yesterday, the State Council said it would
take “tough measures for tough tasks” as it steps up efforts
to curb air pollution. These include increasing levies on the
discharge of pollutants, controlling high energy-consuming and
polluting industries and improving control of airborne particles
measuring less than 2.5 microns in diameter, known as PM2.5,
that can pose health risks.  The government will build systems that evaluate local
authorities’ performance on improving  air quality  and work to
reduce excess capacity in industries such as steel, cement,
electrolytic aluminum and plate glass, according to the
statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net 
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  