-- China Debt Sale Fails for First Time in 23 Months on Cash Crunch
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-14T09:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/china-debt-sale-fails-for-first-time-in-23-months-on-cash-crunch.html
China ’s  Finance Ministry  failed to
sell all of the debt offered at an auction for the first time in
23 months owing to a cash squeeze that threatens to exacerbate a
slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy.  The ministry sold 9.53 billion yuan ($1.55 billion) of 273-day bills, less than the 15 billion yuan target, according to
Chinabond, the nation’s biggest bond-clearing house.
Agricultural  Development Bank  of China Co. raised 11.51 billion
yuan in a sale of six-month bills last week, less than its 20
billion yuan goal.  Banks are hoarding money to meet quarter-end  capital
requirements  at the same time as capital inflows are easing amid
a worsening economic outlook and speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will rein in monetary stimulus. The seven-day  repurchase rate , a
gauge of interbank funding availability, has more than doubled
in the past month and the Hang Seng China Enterprises  Index (HSCEI)  of
shares slid today for a record 12th day in  Hong Kong .  “The cash crunch is curbing demand for bonds,” said Chen
Ying, a fixed-income analyst at Sealand Securities Co. in
Shenzhen. “The crunch may persist if the central bank doesn’t
come out to inject more capital into the financial system. If it
lasts longer, it may affect issuance of both government and
corporate bonds.”  The average yield at today’s bill sale was 3.76 percent,
according to two traders who are required to bid at the
auctions. That compares with a 3.14 percent rate yesterday for
similar-maturity existing  securities , according to data compiled
by Chinabond. The ministry’s last failed auction was a sale of
182-day bills in July 2011.  Outlook Dims  The cash shortage comes after China’s economic expansion
held below 8 percent for the past four quarters, the first time
that has happened in at least 20 years. Morgan Stanley, UBS AG
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are among at least eight
global banks and brokerages that cut 2013 growth estimates for
the nation this week. The  World Bank  slashed its forecast to 7.7
percent from 8.4 percent, a June 12 report showed.  The People’s Bank of China added a net 92 billion yuan to
the financial system this week, down from 160 billion yuan in
the five days through June 7, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The  monetary authority  refrained yesterday from
draining cash for the first time in three months as money
markets reopened after a three-day holiday. The last time it
used reverse-repurchase agreements to inject funds was Feb. 7.  Swaps Climb  “If the central bank doesn’t conduct reverse-repurchase
agreements or short-term liquidity operations to inject capital,
cash supply will stay tight for the rest of the month,” said
Cheng Qingsheng, a bond analyst at Evergrowing Bank Co. in
 Shanghai .  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 3.79 percent as of 4:30
p.m. in Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 3.85 percent, the highest level since September 2011.  Yuan positions  at local lenders accumulated from sales of
foreign exchange, an indication of capital flows into China,
rose 66.86 billion  yuan  in May, the central bank reported today.
That is the smallest gain since November.  Capital Flows  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange last month
stepped up scrutiny of flows to prevent speculative funds from
entering the country disguised as trade payments. Cash is also
flowing out of developing nations as investors bet the Fed will
scale back quantitative easing, a policy that spurred demand for
riskier assets. Investors pulled $5.8 billion from emerging-market equity funds in the week ended June 12, Citigroup Inc.
reported today, citing EPFR Global data.  The yuan rose less than 0.1 percent today and this month to
6.1308 per dollar in Shanghai. It strengthened 1.5 percent in
the January-May period and has retreated 0.2 percent since
reaching a 19-year high of 6.1210 on May 27.  The seven-day repo rate jumped 51 basis points today to
6.90 percent, a weighted average by the National Interbank
Funding Center shows. The yield on the 2.62 percent government
bond due April 2014 dropped five basis points to 3.12 percent.  “We are still bearish on the liquidity outlook because
banks will turn more cautious toward the end of June due to the
need to fulfill loan-to-deposit requirements and we will also
head into another tax payment season in July,” said Pin Ru Tan,
an interest-rate strategist at HSBC Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong
Kong.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  