-- Christie's Special Election Plan Heads NJ Supreme Court
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-06-14T21:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/christie-s-special-election-plan-heads-nj-supreme-court.html
New Jersey’s  Supreme Court  will
weigh in on Governor  Chris Christie ’s decision to hold a special
election Oct. 16 to replace deceased U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg .  The justices put the case on a fast track today, ordering
briefs by June 17 and final responses by June 18, acting state
courts administrative director Judge Glenn Grant said in a
 statement . The move follows a lower appeals court decision
yesterday that there’s no legal obstacle to holding the vote 20
days before the general election, when Christie’s on the ballot
seeking a second term.  “They obviously think this is a matter of great public
interest and they want to weigh in,” Peg Schaffer, chairwoman
of the Somerset County Democratic Committee and the driving
force behind the challenge to the special election, said in a
phone interview.  Scheduling a separate vote for senator allows the
Republican governor to avoid appearing on the ballot below a
Senate race in which a popular Democrat such as Newark Mayor
 Cory Booker  may be the candidate, drawing more Democratic
voters. Christie holds a lead of more than 30 percentage points
over the Democratic candidate, state Senator Barbara Buono, in
recent opinion polls, and a large margin of victory may help his
party pick up seats in the Legislature.  Emergency Challenge  Schaffer filed an emergency challenge to the special
election date on June 7 as a four-way battle for the Democratic
nomination for Senate began. The contest took shape after
Lautenberg, an 89-year-old Democrat, died June 3, and Christie
called for a quick campaign to select a successor to fill out
the remainder of his fifth term.  Ten state organizations supported the lawsuit claiming the
timing of the elections will reduce turnout and unnecessarily
cost the state about $12 million. Schaffer said after the ruling
yesterday it’s questionable that there’s enough time to hold the
two ballots, as by law voting machines must be impounded for 15
days after an election and five to eight days will be needed to
deliver them to polling places.  The court said yesterday there’s no evidence the schedule
puts any greater burden on voters than participating in two more
widely separated elections.  Christie spokesman  Michael Drewniak  in an e-mailed
statement yesterday said the governor followed the law and
ensured New Jersey voters would have a “voice and a choice” in
choosing their next U.S. senator in both the primary and general
election.  ‘Fiscally Responsible’  State Senator Barbara Buono, 59, Christie’s Democratic
opponent, said yesterday the governor should be “fiscally
responsible” and move the election to November.  “Regardless of the outcome of the court’s decision,
holding an election on a Wednesday in October is a cynical
decision by Governor Christie that will disenfranchise voters,”
Buono said in a statement.  Christie appointed his attorney general, Jeffrey Chiesa, to
temporarily fill Lautenberg’s seat.  U.S. Representative  Frank Pallone  and state Assembly
Speaker Sheila Oliver joined Newark Mayor Cory Booker and U.S.
Representative Rush Holt in filing papers to enter the Aug. 13
primary.  Booker, 44, already had already his run for Senate, as
Lautenberg didn’t plan to seek re-election next year. The others
clarified their intentions more recently.  Republican Field  In the Republican primary, former Bogota Mayor Steven Lonegan is facing Alieta Eck, a physician from Somerset.  Acting Attorney General John J. Hoffman urged the appeals
court to reject the challenge, arguing that Christie had “broad
discretionary authority” to call the election on a date of his
choosing under both state and federal law.  The appellate court agreed, saying state law “cautions
against review that would usurp decisions left to and made by
the other branches of government.”  The case is Grillo v. Christie, A-4648-12T2, Superior Court
of  New Jersey , Appellate Division (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  