-- CIBC Promotes Dottori-Attanasio; Raymond Adds McOuat, Vlaad Says
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-06-14T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/cibc-promotes-dottori-attanasio-raymond-adds-mcouat-vlaad-says.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
the country’s fifth-largest bank, named Tom Woods vice chairman
and promoted Laura Dottori-Attanasio to chief risk officer to
replace Woods, according to Vlaad and Co., a Toronto-based
financial services recruiting firm.  Other moves noted in the “Bill’s Buzz” weekly  newsletter 
include:  * CIBC named Richard Nesbitt chief operating officer, from his
previous role as senior executive vice president and group head
of wholesale, international, and technology and operations.  * Gary Brown at CIBC was named managing director and global head
of corporate credit products from his previous role as managing
director and head, U.S. Region, wholesale banking.  * Gavin McOuat joined  Raymond James  Ltd. as managing director
and co-head of investment banking for metals and mining. McOuat
moved from Barclays Plc where he was global co-head of metals
and mining.  * Byron Capital Markets Ltd. hired Ross Davidson as vice
president, institutional sales and trading. Davidson was with
Raymond James as an institutional equity trader.  * David V. Hedley III and Ben Gibson joined Canaccord Financial
Inc.’s Genuity unit in  San Francisco  as managing directors in
technology investment banking. Hedley was previously at UBS AG
and Gibson was with Canaccord in  Montreal .  * BMO Capital Markets brought on Troy MacLean as a research
analyst covering real estate and REIT stocks from CIBC.  * TIAA-CREF Financial Services in  New York  added Michael Lehman
to its energy and infrastructure investments group. Lehman was
recently with Scotiabank as vice president,  investment banking 
and M&A.  * Alignvest Capital Management hired Jeffrey Gallant as an
analyst on North American equity long short mandates from his
previous position at Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc.  * Return on Innovation Capital Ltd. hired Richard McConnell as
vice-president, investment services from CIBC Asset Management
Inc. where he led international and global equity manager
research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  