-- Clearwire Gives Dish’s Ergen a Win in Billionaire’s Duel
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-06-14T02:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/clearwire-gives-dish-s-ergen-a-win-in-billionaire-s-duel.html
In the battle of billionaires trying
to enter the U.S. wireless market,  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s  Charlie Ergen  won a round against  SoftBank Corp. (9984) ’s Masayoshi Son.  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) ’s board endorsed Dish’s $4.40-a-share bid
for the company this week, spurning an offer by majority owner
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  The move deals a setback to Tokyo-based
SoftBank, which sees a Sprint-Clearwire combination as the
centerpiece of its U.S. expansion plan. SoftBank is vying with
Dish to acquire Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier.  Sprint separately agreed this week to a $21.6 billion
takeover by SoftBank, rejecting a higher offer by Dish that it
said was not “actionable.” If Dish is able to acquire the
portion of Clearwire that Sprint doesn’t own, it could force the
carrier to reconsider whether SoftBank is its best suitor, said
Walt Piecyk, an analyst at BTIG LLC. Without full control of
Clearwire and its valuable airwaves, Sprint won’t be able to
execute on its plans for a fourth-generation network, he said.  “Sprint without Clearwire is a company without spectrum to
do many of the 4G things they want to do,” said Piecyk, who is
based in  New York . “If you now have Clearwire recommending Dish,
that’s a leg up Ergen has to buy Sprint and Clearwire.”  Ergen, the chairman and co-founder of the satellite-TV
company, is angling for both Clearwire and Sprint as part of a
plan to expand into wireless services. His offer for Clearwire
would value the entire business at about $6.5 billion.  Still Time  There is still time before the Clearwire deal is completed,
Son said in an interview in Tokyo today, declining to elaborate.  “I am determined to be No. 1 in the world very soon in my
industry,” Son said in a speech today. “You are lucky not to
be my competitor.”  SoftBank  shares  rose as much as 3.4 percent before trading
2 percent higher at 5,080 yen as of 11:24 a.m. in  Tokyo . The
stock has  surged  61 percent this year.  Clearwire’s stock  rose
2.3 percent to $4.47 at the close in New York, while Dish
climbed 2 percent to $38.47.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., the largest
investor-advisory firm, also endorsed Dish’s Clearwire bid. It
cited the “significantly higher” cash amount and the board’s
support for the offer.  Egan-Jones Ratings Co. recommended Clearwire investors vote
against the Sprint deal. The advisory firm backed SoftBank’s
offer for Sprint.  “We appreciate Clearwire’s recognition of the superior
value that we are able to deliver its stockholders,” said Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish.  Bid Deadline  Son, the billionaire president of SoftBank, may have to
shell out more money to help Sprint win its bidding war for
Clearwire -- even as he still faces a contest for Sprint itself.
Sprint said Dish has until June 18 to submit its “best and
final” offer for the carrier.  Clearwire’s board postponed a shareholder meeting scheduled
for this week to vote on Sprint’s earlier $3.40-a-share bid.
While that decision is now slated for June 24, Bellevue,
Washington-based Clearwire said investors should vote against
the offer.  Dish, meanwhile, extended its tender offer for Clearwire
until July 2 from June 28. It’s seeking to buy at least 25
percent of the company.  “The economics of it were so much better than Sprint’s
prior offer,” Gerard Hallaren, an analyst at Janco Partners Inc.
in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , said of Dish’s proposal. “I
suspect Dish will get a good position in Clearwire.”  Wireless Spectrum  Both Dish and Sprint are seeking to gain control of
Clearwire’s airwaves, which are used to provide high-speed
 Internet access . The spectrum was originally devoted to a
nationwide network backed by a technology and cable-industry
coalition. After years of losses, partners such as Google Inc.
sold their stakes in the project. Clearwire has said it needs at
least $1.7 billion to keep operating, putting pressure on the
company to sell itself.  Bill White , a spokesman for  Overland Park , Kansas-based
Sprint, said the company is evaluating Clearwire’s statement.
Sprint owns just more than 50 percent of the business.  “Sprint continues to have every intention of enforcing its
governance rights,” White said in an e-mail. “All commercial
agreements, including network and customer agreements, will be
honored and enforced as it regards our ongoing relationship with
Clearwire.”  Better Deal  While it considered whether Dish’s offer would hurt
Clearwire’s relationship with Sprint and SoftBank, the board
concluded that Dish’s bid was the better deal because it
represented a 29 percent premium to Sprint’s proposal, it said
in a separate  regulatory filing .  If shareholders don’t accept either offer, Clearwire may
not be able to raise enough capital to continue its operations
past March 2014.  “We can give you no assurance that in a restructuring you
would receive any value for your shares,” the company said in
the filing.  The proposal by Dish includes an agreement to designate at
least three directors to the Clearwire board and the right to
veto some of the wireless company’s actions, which would violate
an agreement between Clearwire’s shareholders and Delaware law,
Sprint said last week.  In a separate statement this week, Dish said Clearwire
investors representing 245,411 shares had already accepted its
proposal, still a small portion of the 699.2 million Class A
shares outstanding.  While Ergen has the upper hand in the fight for Clearwire,
he’s still plotting his next move in his pursuit of Sprint.
After SoftBank raised its bid earlier this week -- and Sprint’s
board accepted the new deal -- Dish said it still believes
Sprint has “tremendous value.”  “We will analyze the revised SoftBank bid as we consider
our strategic options,” Dish said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  