-- UN Global Warming Talks Blocked by Russia Set Back Six Months
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-06-14T16:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/climate-talks-failure-risks-2015-deadline-on-emissions-pact-1-.html
The United Nations global warming
talks have been set back by six months after  Russia  and its
allies blocked progress at a group charged with implementing
decisions of the 190 nations involved in the discussions.  The Subsidiary Body for Implementation at the UN talks
failed to complete any work at two weeks of meetings in Bonn
that finished today because Russia, Ukraine and Belarus objected
to the group’s agenda.  The delay means envoys will have to redouble efforts when
they meet in November in Warsaw, and some decisions may be
delayed until 2014, said Quamrul Chowdury, the lead negotiator
for the Least Developed Countries group of nations. The talks
are aiming to adopt a treaty in 2015 that would limit fossil
fuel emissions blamed for damaging the climate.  “Practically speaking we have lost six months,” Chowdury
said in an interview. The Warsaw conference will have to address
the SBI’s agenda from Bonn well as its own, he said. “There is
a danger some items will have to be forwarded to next year.”  The negotiations sponsored by the UN are seeking to replace
the 1997  Kyoto Protocol , which limits greenhouse gas pollution
from industrial nations. Officials meeting in Bonn were supposed
to draft decisions and decide on further actions that are
formally approved by the  Conference of Parties  to the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change at the end of the year.  Russian Roadblock  At the Bonn meeting, work under the Subsidiary Body for
Implementation, or SBI, failed to address any items since June
3, when Russia, Ukraine and Belarus blocked the agenda. The
three nations want the SBI to include in its agenda a formal
discussion of meeting procedures, which have never been agreed.  Russia, Belarus and Ukraine objected to the conclusion of
the last UN climate meeting in Doha. They were upset about the
body’s decision to restrict their ability to sell surplus Kyoto
permits in the eight years to 2020.  Regardless of the holdup, nations have had “very good
informal exchanges” on many SBI agenda items, said Jurgen
Lefevere, deputy head of the EU delegation.  “Issues raised by Russia, Ukraine and Belarus have to be
discussed,” Lefevere told reporters today. “We will use the
time between Bonn and Warsaw to address the issues so that we
have no blockage when the Warsaw COP starts.”  Carbon Rules  The SBI meeting had been due to discuss issues such as a
review of rules governing UN carbon offset projects and plans to
address loss and damages resulting from the effects of  climate
change . The loss-and-damage proposal championed by small island
nations would channel cash from richer nations to developing
ones hit hardest by climate change.  Christiana Figueres , the top UN climate official, said
she’s “confident” that governments will find a solution
between now and the summit in  Poland . Negotiators gathering in
Warsaw can make up for lost time and “do the work of three
weeks in one,” she told reporters today. The delay in the SBI
hasn’t stopped progress in the rest of the meeting, she said.  The SBI is one of the three main bodies working at the UN
talks. The two others are working on rules and guidelines for
the post-2020 deal, and they made progress in Bonn, Figueres
said.  “Governments are moving faster now from the stage of
exploring options to designing and implementing solutions,”
Figueres said in a  statement .  European View  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said that while
she was glad to see support for the proposal by the 27-nation
bloc proposal to reduce HFCs, which are industrial gases more
potent than carbon in harming the atmosphere, she remained
concerned that many “major negotiating partners do not yet seem
ready to engage beyond restating positions of principle.”  “While the outcomes of these negotiations are good news,
the last two weeks illustrate with all possible clarity that a
lot more work will be needed to get solid results from COP 19 in
Warsaw in November,” Hedegaard said in a statement in Brussels.  After appeals this week from the U.S., the European Union,
 China  and  India , the three still refused to accept a compromise.
Tomasz Chruszczow, SBI chairman, closed the session on June 11.
Talks will resume under Polish guidance in Warsaw Nov. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in Bonn at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net 
and Stefan Nicola in Bonn at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  