-- Confidence in U.S. Banks Climbs to 5-Year High: Gallup
-- B y   E r i k a   W a d d e l l
-- 2013-06-14T17:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/confidence-in-u-s-banks-climbs-to-5-year-high-gallup.html
Americans are more confident in U.S.
banks than they’ve been in five years as an improving economy
helps lenders boost profit and repair their balance sheets, a
new Gallup poll found.  People who said they have “a great deal” or “quite a
lot” of confidence in U.S. lenders climbed to 26 percent of
respondents from a record low of 21 percent a year ago,
according to a  statement  on Gallup’s website today. That’s still
below the 41 percent recorded in 2007 before the credit crisis
and 32 percent in 2008 as the financial system began to falter.  The telephone poll of 1,529 people on June 1 through June 4
followed  all-time highs  for the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock
index in May and  record first-quarter profit  for the banking
industry. New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S.
bank by assets, and San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the
biggest mortgage lender, had their best year for profit in 2012.  “Most authorities agree that U.S. banks did well on their
‘stress tests’ and that banks’ balance sheets are much improved,
as are their earnings,” Gallup said in the statement. The
 Federal Reserve  regularly tests the largest financial companies
to see if they’d stay healthy in a crisis, and 17 of 18 passed
this year.  The percentage of people expressing confidence in banks is
now almost equal to those with little or no confidence, which
Gallup said fell to 28 percent from 35 percent a year earlier.  Bank Blemishes  Confidence hit its low in 2012, a year that included the
discovery that bankers were manipulating benchmark  interest
rates  for their own benefit, and a trading loss at JPMorgan that
blemished its image as one of the best-run lenders.  That same year, five mortgage-servicing firms including
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan reached a $25 billion
settlement with 49 states and the federal government to end a
probe of abusive foreclosure practices.  Confidence in banks ranked 10th among 16 types of
institutions, according to Gallup. While lenders trailed the
military, small business and the police, they were ahead of
television news, newspapers and Congress, the poll found.
Confidence in banks also rose the fastest of any group this
year, according to Gallup.  The nationwide survey of U.S. adults has a 3 percent margin
of error and confidence level of 95 percent, Gallup said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erika Waddell at 
 ewaddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  