-- Crop Price Decline Top Commodity Opportunity at Goldman Sachs
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-06-14T05:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/crop-price-decline-top-commodity-opportunity-at-goldman-sachs.html
The downside potential for
agriculture prices is the biggest trading opportunity across
commodity markets for analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as
production recovers, according a report from the bank.  The bank recommends initiating a short position for new-crop corn and soybeans, analysts Damien Courvalin and  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in a report dated yesterday. Goldman lowered its
forecast to $4.75 a bushel for corn and to $11 a bushel for
soybeans in three, six and 12 months. That compares with a
previous prediction of $5.25 and $12.50 for six and 12 months.  Corn, soybean and wheat futures that surged as drought cut
output in 2012 have tumbled into bear markets this year on
expectations harvests will rebound. Record U.S. corn output will
more than double inventories before the harvest in 2014, and
soybean production will be an all-time high, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture said June 12. Corn futures are the second worst-performing commodity on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
raw materials this year.  “While U.S. corn and soybean production levels remain
uncertain, we still expect that production will recover relative
to last year’s level under most weather outcomes,” the report
said. “It will require a significant weather shock to limit the
rebuild in corn and soybean inventories given the record large
realized South American harvests and current weak global
consumption.”  The bank recommended a basket short two December 2013 corn
contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade and short one November
2013 soybean contract as it sees a lower soybean to corn price
ratio under most weather outcomes, it said.  “While we may be too early in entering this trade, we
prefer that to being late given our belief that current prices
embed a large weather premium and that prices could decline in
the next six weeks,” the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  