-- D.C. Gridlock Slicing Into Services of Cities Across U.S.
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/d-c-gridlock-slicing-into-services-of-cities-across-u-s-.html
Philadelphia is scrounging for money
to reduce child lead poisoning. Mesa,  Arizona ’s sales- tax
revenue  is softening as  Boeing Co. (BA)  suppliers cut back. Oklahoma
City anticipates less spending from its largest employer, Tinker
Air Force Base.  U.S. mayors gathering in  Chicago  this week for the  Clinton
Global Initiative  America meeting say the automatic  federal
budget  cuts known as sequestration are starting to ripple
through their cities, forcing them to make difficult decisions
about funding services their residents demand.  The mayors blame partisan gridlock in Washington and are
calling on Congress and President  Barack Obama  to end the
sequestration before more reductions take a deeper toll on
cities that can’t deficit-spend like the federal government.  “Congress has got to figure out a way to work together for
the good of Americans and should not continue to hold many of
our mayors and our cities hostage to this death by a thousand
cuts,” Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter, a Democrat and
president of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, said by telephone.  Sequestration was supposed to be so intolerable to
Republicans and Democrats alike that both sides would compromise
on spending to avert $1.2 trillion in cuts over nine years.
Instead, no accord was reached and reductions began in March. As
much as $85 billion will be withheld for the fiscal year that
ends Sept. 30, forcing service curtailments and payroll cuts.  NYC Cuts  In  New York City , as many as 500  New York  City Housing
Authority workers may be dismissed because of sequestration.  “We had a $205 million grenade dropped on us,” Housing
Authority Chairman John Rhea said today following a City Council
hearing on the cuts, referring to a revenue shortfall caused by
the federal spending reductions. The agency serves 650,000
residents who rely on it either for housing or rent assistance.  Governing in an age of such austerity requires mayors to
find new funding sources to sustain and improve their cities,
Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  told about 1,000 business, government
and foundation leaders at the  Clinton Initiative  meeting.  “We need private-sector dollars to come alongside to help
us do what we used to do from a national level,” said Emanuel,
a former White House aide to Obama and President  Bill Clinton .  New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu said the federal cuts
began just as cities were learning how to cope with new fiscal
challenges in the post-recession economy.  Alternative Sources  “Washington is not responding nearly as quickly and not
nearly as forcefully as it has historically,” Landrieu told
reporters in Chicago. “You have a lot of mayors up here that
are kind of starting to get with it, and to find new ways of
solving old problems with new partners because our old partner
has left us.”  While cities with limited military or other federal
operations might see less damage from sequestration, funding
they rely on for low-cost housing, Community Development Block
Grants and other programs will be cut, said Michael Wallace, a
National League of Cities program director in  Washington .  “Most cities are not in a position to supplant these
dollars,” Wallace said by telephone. “Cities are going to be
making some tough choices about which priorities to fill.”  The success of efforts by mayors to replace money cut from
federal funding will depend on how hard hit their communities
were by the home-foreclosure crisis and the loss of tax revenue
during the recession, Wallace said.  Youngsters, Homeless  In Philadelphia, sequestration has hit early-childhood
education, services for older residents, student work-study jobs
and public safety, Nutter said. The mayor and City Council
reached an agreement June 12 on a proposed budget that covers a
$350,000 cut in federal dollars for the lead-abatement program,
as well as a $1 million reduction in homeless-program funding,
 Mark McDonald , a Nutter spokesman, said by e-mail.  “These are real programs with real services that get
delivered to folks, and when they don’t get the service, bad
things happen,” Nutter said. “Every dollar counts, and we
don’t have one to waste.”  Scott Smith , the Republican mayor of Mesa, said he’s less
concerned with federal funding cuts than he is with what he
called their “meat-ax” nature. That includes fewer federal
grants for training and equipment for his fire department, he
said, even though the city remains responsible for providing
disaster assistance to the U.S. Homeland Security Department.  Boeing Tailwind  Engineering firms and other contractors are starting to cut
back as Chicago-based Boeing responds to sequestration, Smith
said. The world’s largest aircraft manufacturer employs about
4,800 workers in Mesa, where its Apache helicopters are
produced. Growth in the city’s sales-tax receipts has declined
to about 1 percent a month compared with the previous year, down
from a rate of about 6 percent, Smith said.  “It’s just money pulled out of the economy
indiscriminately, which is a horrible way to budget,” said
Smith, who is in line to be president of the U.S. Conference of
Mayors. “We just don’t have a whole lot of patience with
Washington because they simply cannot seem to be able to do the
job they’re supposed to do.”  Oklahoma City  also has seen its sales-tax collections
soften since sequestration began, Republican Mayor Mick Cornett
said. The city’s biggest employer is Tinker Air Force Base, and
there is a large Federal Aviation Administration training
facility where forced unpaid time off or job cuts may lead
employees to curb their spending, Cornett said.  Unpaid Furloughs  The Pentagon will impose unpaid furloughs of 11 days
starting July 8 on as many as 680,000 civilian employees, U.S.
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said on May 14.  “The sequester might have made some people in our economy
a little reluctant to spend,” Cornett said.  Sequestration puts a burden on cities when they were
starting to recover from revenue declines and budget cuts they
had to make to cope with the recession, said Kil Huh, director
of State and Local Fiscal Health at the Pew Charitable Trusts, a
research organization in Washington. The slump extended 18
months to June 2009 from December 2007.  The 30 U.S. cities studied by Pew as part of its  American
Cities Project  had an average 4.7 percent decline in assessed
property values from 2009-2011, with a 7.7 percent drop in
municipal workers during that time.  “Just as things are starting to look up for many
localities as well as states, the uncertainty that the sequester
imposes on them could potentially harm the recovery that they’re
experiencing,” Huh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus,  Ohio , at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 