-- Dassault Targets Indian Rafale Deal This Year Amid Export Push
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-14T09:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/dassault-targets-indian-rafale-deal-this-year-amid-export-push.html
Dassault Aviation SA (AM) , maker of the
Rafale combat jet, said it may sign an export deal with India by
year’s end as the company targets more overseas sales.  Talks are focused on Indian license production and
component manufacture for 126 fighters with options for 63 more,
Chief Executive Officer Eric Trappier told reporters in Paris
today. Trappier said there were no obstacles to an agreement,
although talks “have been pretty hard-nosed.”  India last year selected the Rafale as its future multi-role combat plane in the first export win for the French plane
that had trailed rivals in orders outside its home market.
Dassault is also targeting business from countries that are
reconsidering buying the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter as the plane’s cost increases.  “The Rafale is a model, unlike the F-35, whose development
has been going on and on and is running into development and
budget problems,” Trappier said.  Canada is exploring whether to remain an F-35 customer,
with a planned purchase of 65 jets, as Dassault tries to
convince the government to change course.  “Canada is a significant country for us,” Trappier said,
adding that Rafale’s combat experience in Mali and Libya has
been presented to the country.  Several European states, including  Denmark  and the
Netherlands, also are reviewing their combat plane plans,
although Trappier is less optimistic of making inroads there.  Other potential Rafale buyers include  Malaysia , where
Trappier said talks have started to find industrial partners in
case Dassault wins a pending competition. Malaysia could get a
final assembly line for Rafale if it is ready to pay, he said.  Brazil, where the Rafale is battling the  Boeing Co. (BA) 
F/A-18E/F Super Hornet and  Saab AB (SAABB)  Gripen, has repeatedly
deferred a selection, and Trappier said “it looks like the
matter of fighters is a little bit asleep.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in Paris at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  