-- Deutsche Bahn Wins Right to Fight Eurostar in Channel Tunnel
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-06-14T18:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/deutsche-bahn-wins-right-to-take-on-eurostar-in-channel-tunnel.html
Deutsche Bahn  AG has been granted
the right to run London-bound trains through the Channel Tunnel
in competition with  Eurostar  Group Ltd. following three years of
study by the body responsible for safety in the subsea link.  The German state rail company was given the go-ahead by the
Anglo-French Intergovernmental Commission,  Groupe Eurotunnel SA (GET) ,
which runs the 30-mile shaft, said in a statement today. The
approval process was drawn out because the rolling stock to be
used wasn’t permitted under existing safety rules.  The entry of Deutsche Bahn, which doesn’t plan to commence
services before 2016, could add as many as 4 million passengers
on German and Dutch routes to the 10 million who already use
Eurostar’s express services, Eurotunnel said.  “This is wonderful news,” Eurotunnel Chief Executive
Officer Jacques Gounon said in the statement. “Twenty years
after the start of commercial services, the authorities have
finally opened the Channel Tunnel to all.”  Deutsche Bahn plans to employ coupled pairs of trains from
 Siemens AG (SIE)  with motors slung under the railcars and requiring a
staggered evacuation, the Channel Tunnel Safety Authority said
in 2010 after the original submission.  “Deutsche Bahn warmly welcomes this decision,” the Berlin-based company said in a statement. “We don’t currently
anticipate that the trains will be in complete operation on
routes through Belgium and France before 2016.”  Single Corridor  Eurostar, controlled by French state rail operator SNCF,
links  London  with Paris and Brussels using an older Alstom SA
model based on the TGV, meeting a requirement for a full-length
train that can be evacuated from both ends of a single corridor.  Eurostar has also ordered Siemens e320 trains for delivery
from mid-2014 which are earmarked for new services to Amsterdam.
CEO Nicolas Petrovic said in March the stock could alternatively
be deployed on existing routes to Paris and Brussels or to
southern  France  because of high Dutch access charges.  Deutsche Bahn said in 2011 that services from  Frankfurt  to
London via the Channel Tunnel had been put back from 2013 to
2015 after production of Siemens Velaro-D trains was held up by
component supply issues, and the company said today that the
2016 service entry target relates to the production delays.  Eurostar’s e320 trains are also based on the Velaro series.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net  