-- Dole Food Shareholders Sue Over CEO’s $645 Million Bid
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-06-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/dole-food-shareholders-sue-over-ceo-s-645-million-bid.html
Dole Food Co. (DOLE)  shareholders sued
directors of the fresh-fruit producer alleging they are
potentially shortchanging investors by considering a $645
million buyout offer by the company’s top executive.  Dole’s board will be violating its legal duties to get the
best possible price for the company unless it rejects the $12-a-share bid by Chief Executive Officer David Murdock for the 60
percent of Dole that he or his family don’t already own, a
family trust that holds Dole shares claimed in a lawsuit.  “If the board approves the proposed transaction, it will
have rubber stamped the transaction without determining whether
it maximizes values to minority shareholders,” the investors
said in the Delaware Chancery Court suit, asking a judge to bar
the deal from proceeding.  Murdock, who took over as Dole’s CEO in February, has said
he will take the world’s largest producer of fresh fruit and
vegetables private if his bid is accepted. The 90-year-old
executive is reprising his 2003 role in transforming the food
company into a closely held firm. Dole went public again in
2009.  Scott Griswold, a spokesman for  Westlake Village ,
California-based Dole, didn’t immediately return a call
yesterday seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Long-Term Goals  Operating Dole as a closely held enterprise will give it
more ability to focus on long-term goals “without the concern
that a public company must have for the investing public’s
short-term expectations,” Murdock wrote in a letter to the
board this month.  Dole has reported a drop in  earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization  for the past three years
and the company in May said there may be a fourth annual decline
on lower prices for bananas and berries.  Attorneys for the Setrakian Famiy Trust say Dole directors
are considering Murdock’s bid without soliciting other offers
for the food company.  Board members are “failing to act in good faith and to
exercise the necessary care required” in considering buyout
offers by not soliciting other bids, the family said in the
suit.  Murdock, the company’s largest shareholder and its CEO for
22 years through 2007, resumed full control when David A. DeLorenzo left to manage Dole’s packaged-foods and Asian
businesses, which were sold to  Japan ’s  Itochu Corp. (8001)  for $1.69
billion in April.  Dole was founded 162 years ago and operates in more than 90
countries, producing bananas, pineapples and lettuce in  Latin
America  and southeast  Asia , according to its website.  The case is Setrakian Family Trust v. Dole Food Co.,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  