-- Medtronic Valves Don’t Infringe Edwards German Patent
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-06-14T16:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/medtronic-valves-don-t-infringe-edwards-german-patent.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s aortic valve,
inserted into the heart via a catheter, doesn’t violate Edwards
Lifesciences Inc.’s Cribier patent, the German District Court of
Mannheim ruled.  The Cribier patent invoked doesn’t cover the Medtronic
CoreValve device targeted in the case, said Stefanie Voelker, a
court spokeswoman, in a telephone interview. There are two more
challenges pending in  Germany  covering different patents that
will be resolved later this year or in early 2014.  Medtronic generates about $75 million, or 5 cents in
earnings per share, from CoreValve’s sales in Germany, said
Danielle Antalffy, an analyst with Leerink Swann in New York. It
would have been a “significant windfall” for Irvine,
California-based Edwards if the ruling had gone the other way,
with an injunction against Medtronic, that could have added 25
cents to 30 cents a share to  Edwards (EW) ’ annual earnings.  “We view today’s news as a minor negative for Edwards, as
we believe some investors had started to factor in a potential
infringement decision and injunction against Medtronic,”
Antalffy wrote in a note to clients today. “In Germany, where
 patent law  is different than in the U.S., a ruling of patent
infringement results in an immediate injunction, which would
result in removal of Medtronic’s CoreValve from the German
market.”  Edwards  declined  2.4 percent to $70.22 at 12:23 p.m. New
York time. The shares had fallen 21 percent in the 12 months
through yesterday. Medtronic, based in  Minneapolis , rose less
than 1 percent to $52.85.  Edwards is unlikely to win either of the remaining patent
decisions, said  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst with Well Fargo in
New York. While Edwards was able to protect its Andersen patents
in the U.S., it wasn’t successful in Germany, he wrote in a note
to investors today.  “Therefore, we think there is no guarantee Edwards will
prevail” in either of the ongoing cases in Germany, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  