-- Elan Inviting Royalty Pharma Bid Shows Hostility Easing
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-06-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/elan-to-proceed-with-formal-sale-process-invites-royalty-pharma.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  is seeking a buyer and
will invite Royalty Pharma, whose $6.7 billion bid it rejected,
to participate, suggesting the two companies may end a standoff
that has lasted almost four months.  Elan’s board authorized a formal sale process “in light of
the expressions of interest received to date,” the Dublin-based
company said in a statement yesterday. Investors shouldn’t
tender stock into the current Royalty Pharma offer, Elan said.  Shareholders will meet in Dublin on June 17, when Elan will
reveal voting results on four transactions proposed by Chief
Executive Officer Kelly Martin. Royalty’s takeover plans, begun
in February and unanimously rejected by Elan’s board, is
contingent on investors voting against all four proposals.  “By going into a formal sale process and inviting Royalty
in, Elan looks to be taking the hostility out a bit,” said
Adrian Howd, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London . “They’re
saying, ’Whatever happens on Monday, we’re in a sale process
now, so if you’re interested, come and talk with us.’”  Elan shares rose 8.4 percent to close at 10.07 euros in
Dublin, their biggest increase since May 25, 2012. Trading
volume was 74 percent of the three-month average.  Royalty Pharma said yesterday that a majority of investors
voted against three of the proposals. Shareholders appeared to
favor a $200 million stock buyback plan, Royalty Pharma said
after reviewing the votes so far. Royalty Pharma is seeking
permission from the Irish commercial court and takeover panel to
alter its contingency terms.  Under Consideration  The other three transactions under consideration are a $1
billion investment in 21 percent of  Theravance Inc. (THRX) ’s royalties,
a $340 million takeover of Vienna-based AOP Orphan
Pharmaceuticals AG, and the sale of an experimental drug called
ELND005 for  Alzheimer’s disease .  “The Elan board and management are aligned in maximizing
the full value potential of the business on behalf of its
shareholders,” Elan said.  There can be no assurance that any sale process will be
fair and realistic, Royalty Pharma CEO Pablo Legorreta said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “The only thing that is certain for Elan shareholders is
Royalty Pharma’s cash-confirmed offer,” Legorreta said. “If
shareholders want to have the option to choose between Royalty
Pharma’s offer or a sale process, they should vote against all
four of Elan’s proposals, especially the share repurchase
program.”  Elan’s financial advisers are Citigroup Inc., Davy
Corporate Finance, Morgan Stanley and Ondra Partners. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Groton Partners are
advising Royalty Pharma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  