-- Telkom Reports Largest Non-Mining South Africa Company Loss
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-06-14T09:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/telkom-s-loss-climbs-more-than-five-fold-as-competition-mounts.html
Telkom SA SOC Ltd. (TKG)  said full-year
losses widened more than fifty-fold to 11.6 billion rand ($1.17
billion) after it wrote down the value of its assets, making it
the biggest loss by a South Africa-based non-mining company.  The net loss for the year through March compared with 216
million rand a year earlier, the Pretoria-based company said in
a statement today. Earnings per share after one-time items fell
73 percent to 87 cents.  “Our results for 2013 have been largely impacted by the 12
billion rand impairment,” Chief Executive Officer Sipho Maseko
said on a conference call. “The impairment was prompted by the
considerable period of time that our shares have been trading at
a much lower net asset value.”  The company, almost 40 percent owned by the South African
government, is facing strike action amid talks with labor unions
about wage increases. Revenue fell 1.8 percent to 33.1 billion
rand as sales from the fixed-line voice service, its biggest
contributor of revenue, decreased 4.7 percent amid competition
from mobile and broadband companies.  Telkom  shares  rose as much as 3.9 percent and were trading
2.3 percent higher at 15.66 rand by 11:50 a.m. in Johannesburg,
valuing the company at 8.1 billion rand.  Older Assets  Telkom’s net loss is the biggest of any companies traded on
the Johannesburg Stock Exchange since  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) 
reported a 16.1 billion rand full-year loss in 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fixed-line operator wrote down the value of its assets
to reflect the company’s lower share price, which has fallen 21
percent in the past 12 months, and implied net value, it said on
June 11. Other considerations included the value of some of its
older assets, which have declined as technology has advanced.  “We are in a comfortable position to support our ongoing
capital expenditure program which is largely directed towards
upgrading and renewing our network,” Maseko said on the call.  Telkom appointed former  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD)  Chief Operating
Officer Maseko as chief executive officer on March 28 as it
seeks to boost growth and meet a target to help deliver
broadband to all South African citizens by 2020. The government
blocked the sale of a 20 percent stake to South Korea’s  KT Corp. (030200) 
last year, saying it was a strategic asset.  Reviewing Costs  Telkom is reviewing its costs and may sell some of its
property assets and reduce staff, particularly at management
level, the CEO said. He declined to specify how many positions
or the ideal size of the company after the job cuts.  The Communication Workers Union, the labor group with the
most Telkom members, is considering strike action after failing
to reach an agreement with Telkom on wage increases and job
protection, spokesman Matankana Mothapo said in a mobile phone
interview yesterday. The organization, which represents about
10,000 workers, is seeking an 11.5 percent salary increase
compared with Telkom’s offer of a 6 percent rise. Telkom employs
more than 20,000 people.  Employee expenses for the year increased by 14 percent
because of salary increases and severance package payments, the
company said.  Telkom shares have fallen 7.2 percent this year, compared
with a 2.2 percent rise on the FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index.
Vodacom, South Africa’s largest wireless provider, has retreated
9.7 percent, while  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , the continent’s biggest
telecommunications company, is flat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  