-- Emerging Stocks Pare a Fifth Weekly Slide Led by Turkey
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-06-14T22:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/emerging-stocks-rise-paring-biggest-weekly-decline-in-a-year.html
Emerging-market stocks rose and
pared a fifth weekly decline, led by  Turkey  and  Thailand , after
valuations tumbled to a 10-month low.  Brazil ’s real posted the
biggest drop among developing currencies.  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index
rallied 4.6 percent after Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan
met with protesters. Thai’s benchmark index capped the biggest
advance since 2011, led by banks, while  Russia ’s Micex index
snapped a three-day drop. Chinese shares in Hong Kong slid for a
record 12th day as the nation’s Finance Ministry failed to sell
all of the debt offered at an auction. Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  slumped
and the real fell on higher-than-forecast inflation.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1.1 percent to 953.68,
trimming its weekly slump to 2.8 percent. The gauge rebounded
after trading yesterday at 9.7 times projected earnings, the
lowest level since August, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Stocks gained even after the International Monetary
Fund cut its American growth forecast for 2014 and warned that
tapering of Federal Reserve stimulus may be risky if not handled
properly.  “ Emerging markets  are at a pretty big discount,” James Paulsen, the Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist at
Wells Capital Management, which oversees more than $340 billion,
said by phone. “I do think there’s good value and good
possibilities over the next couple of years.”  All  10 groups  in the emerging-market index rose today as
consumer shares had the biggest gains. The broad measure has
lost 9.6 percent this year, compared with a 9.4 percent advance
in the MSCI World Index of developed-country stocks.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slumped 1.6 percent to $39.31. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 3.5 percent to 26.97.  Brazil’s Ibovespa fell 2.1 percent as inflation data
rekindled concern that policy makers will maintain the faster
pace of interest rate increases established at their last
meeting. OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA plunged 7.6
percent, leading a slump in companies controlled by billionaire
 Eike Batista . The real declined 1.4 percent against the U.S.
dollar as the removal of a tax also failed to stem outflows.  The Micex Index added 1.4 percent in Moscow, paring its
fifth weekly loss to 3.3 percent. OAO Magnit, Russia’s biggest
food retailer, surged 3.8 percent. The ruble advanced as oil
rose and demand for the currency from exporters with tax
payments falling due added to buying from foreign investors amid
improved risk appetite.  Turkish Shares  Turkey’s equity benchmark rallied as Turkiye Garanti
Bankasi AS and  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  advanced at least 5.4 percent. The
lira gained for the fourth day.  Thailand’s SET Index rebounded from the lowest level since
December.  Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK)  posted the biggest advance since
2006.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex rebounded 1.9 percent as ICICI Bank
Ltd. rose the most in a month, leading its peers higher. The
rupee, which touched an all-time low of 58.9850 per dollar on
June 11, rose to 57.5287.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, also known as the H-Share Index, slid 0.2 percent, erasing gains of as much as 1.3
percent. The measure has fallen 21 percent from its Feb. 1 high,
exceeding the 20 percent threshold that some investors consider
as a bear market. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.6
percent, halting an eight-day, 7.6 percent loss.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 322 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  