-- Mercator Soars as Sale to Croatia Agrokor Nears: Ljubljana Mover
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-06-14T11:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/mercator-soars-as-sale-to-croatia-agrokor-nears-ljubljana-mover.html
Mercator Poslovni Sistem d.d., the
largest supermarket chain in the Balkans, soared the most in
almost five years as its  owners  neared the decision to sell the
company to Agrokor d.d.  Shares surged 11.05 euros, or 11.8 percent, to 105 euros at
13:05 p.m. in Ljubljana, the biggest jump since November 2008,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Mercator jumped as much as
13.4 percent in earlier trading. Today’s trading volume
represents 550 percent of the three-month average, data shows.  “It seems this time the sale to Agrokor will be pulled
through since any alternative would be a much worse option for
everybody involved,” Andraz Grahek, managing partner at Capital
Genetics in Ljubljana, said by phone today. “The driving force
for Agrokor’s financing the acquisition are some private equity
funds, including One Equity Partners as they see sense in the
merger of the retail operations.”  Agrokor,  Croatia ’s largest company with interest in  food
production , retail and press distribution, is the only bidder
for the 53 percent stake in Mercator, Futura public relations
agency in Ljubljana, said on June 5. Futura represents
Mercator’s majority shareholders. Agrokor wants to expand its
business as the company sees increased competition in the region
as the former Yugoslav nation joins the European Union in July.  Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., one of Mercator owners with a
10.75 percent holding, sold its stake to Agrokor, Delo newspaper
reported today, citing people familiar at Slovenia’s biggest
bank. Agrokor was said to offer 120 euros per Mercator share,
according to the Ljubljana-based newspaper.  “Talks between the group of sellers and the buyer are in
progress so we cannot disclose details,” Mojca Strojan,
spokeswoman for NLB, said in a response to  Bloomberg News 
questions. She said Mercator stake is not considered a strategic
asset and is planned to be sold off.  The sale is in progress and Mercator cannot comment
further, Katja Kek, the Ljubljana-based company spokeswoman,
said by phone.  Pivovarna Lasko Group is the largest owner of Mercator and
the company’s supervisory board is meeting today to give the
final approval to the sale of its 23 percent stake, spokesman
Jernej Smisl said by phone. Agrokor spokeswoman Anja Linic
declined to comment when contacted by e-mail by Bloomberg News.  Agrokor last attempted to purchase the Slovenian retailer
in 2011 though it abandoned the effort in February 2012 due to
opposition from Slovenian officials, who said the move may hurt
the country’s food industry. Agrokor offered 221 euros per
Mercator share at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  