-- Merck to Cut Research Jobs as Perlmutter Sets Direction
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-06-14T20:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/merck-to-cut-research-jobs-as-perlmutter-sets-direction.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) , the second-largest U.S.
drugmaker, plans to cut jobs at its research laboratories, two
months after Roger Perlmutter took helm of the unit.  The shakeup includes immediate elimination of some
positions and additional reductions over time, said Steve Cragle, a spokesman for the Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based
company. He said it’s too early to say how many or what
positions are affected.  “The changes are part of our existing strategy that we’ve
talked about for quite some time, as well as our commitment to
streamlining our operating model,” Cragle said in a telephone
interview today. The structure of Merck Research Laboratories
“has been altered to simplify governance so we can advance our
therapeutic and vaccine candidates more efficiently and focus
our resources on the most promising programs.”  Perlmutter, Amgen Inc.’s former top scientist, replaced
Peter Kim as Merck’s head of research in April after several
experimental medicines suffered setbacks in trials. Merck’s lack
of new drugs contributed to a 2 percent revenue decline last
year as the company’s asthma treatment Singulair faced generic
competition.  “We don’t think Merck investors view the status quo as a
good option,”  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in
New York, wrote in a note to clients today. “We think the
Street will generally respond favorably.”  Reports of a shakeup were posted on a pharmaceutical
industry  blog  today run by Derek Lowe called “In the
Pipeline.”  Merck rose less than 1 percent to $47.95 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The shares have gained 17 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  