-- EU Backs Start of U.S. Trade Talks; France Wins on Films
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-06-15T15:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/eu-backs-start-of-u-s-trade-talks-france-wins-on-films.html
European Union countries authorized
the start of talks with the U.S. on a free-trade agreement after
bowing to French demands to exclude the  film industry .  EU governments gave the European Commission, the bloc’s
regulatory arm, a mandate for negotiations with the Office of
the U.S. Trade Representative to expand the world’s biggest
economic relationship. The goal is to remove tariffs, ease
regulatory barriers and expand access in investment, services
and public procurement.  “It represents a really substantial opportunity,” Irish
Trade Minister  Richard Bruton  told reporters late yesterday in
Luxembourg after he and his EU counterparts struck a deal on the
scope of the negotiations at a 13-hour meeting. Bruton chaired
the gathering and brokered the accord because Ireland holds the
27-nation bloc’s rotating presidency.  With the EU in a recession, the U.S. in a slow recovery and
the  World Trade Organization  in deadlock over efforts to open
markets, European and American policymakers are seeking
commercial deals with individual countries or groups of nations
to spur growth. Trade will feature at a June 17-18 meeting of
 Group of Eight  leaders in the U.K.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  of Germany,  Europe ’s biggest
economy, said she would throw her “full political weight
behind” a free-trade pact between the EU and the U.S.  “We need big projects together that unite us,” Merkel
said in an interview yesterday in Berlin. “We ought to use this
window of opportunity.”  Economic Benefits  An accord between the EU and the U.S. would outrank all
others because both sides already have goods and services trade
valued at $2 billion a day. A deal, which might take at least
two years to reach, could bring annual economic benefits of 119
billion euros ($159 billion) to Europe and 95 billion euros to
the U.S., the Brussels-based commission said.  Beyond that, the world economy would get a 100 billion-euro
boost through extra demand and governments around the globe
would be encouraged to embrace EU-U.S. models for everything
from regulatory cooperation to technical standards, says the
commission.  “There’s enough good will on both sides to realize this is
the moment to push ahead,” U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said in a June 13 interview in  London .  The U.S. said it would aim for “as broad and deep an
agreement as possible” when negotiations with the EU get under
way in the coming weeks.  Comprehensive Agreement  “It’s important that this be a comprehensive agreement,”
Andrea Mead, a spokeswoman for the USTR in  Washington , said by
e-mail after the EU ministerial go-ahead in Luxembourg. “We
recognize there will be sensitivities. That’s what negotiations
are intended to deal with.”  The current momentum for an accord masks both trans-Atlantic and internal EU differences that may end up scaling
back or even scuppering any deal. The planned accord will be
called the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership.  The green light by European trade ministers came after
 France  threatened to wield its veto power unless audiovisual
policies were fully excluded from the commission’s negotiating
mandate. The French government cited the principle that culture
can’t be treated as a normal commercial item.  France Pressed  The commission and most EU nations including the U.K. and
 Germany  opposed that hard-line stance and pressed France to show
flexibility. They proposed instead to fix so-called “redlines”
for the talks to ensure European policies to promote cultural
works wouldn’t be jeopardized, while allowing for the
possibility of some concessions to the U.S. in this area so the
EU would have greater leverage over other matters such as
American public procurement.  In their accord, the trade ministers carved the audiovisual
industry out of the mandate to win French support while leaving
the commission the right to request permission to negotiate for
this issue at a later stage.  French Trade Minister Nicole Bricq had said she would
“refuse any mandate that doesn’t include protection of cultural
services and the clear and explicit exclusion of the audiovisual
sector.”  Acceptable Concession  EU Trade Commissioner Karel  De Gucht  said the concession to
France was acceptable because he is free to raise the issue
again with European governments after sounding out U.S.
officials on it.  “I can live with this,” De Gucht said. “I’m going to
listen to what the American friends have to tell us on this,
what is their vision on this, and then if we judge it
appropriate we will come forward with an additional demand for a
mandate.”  De Gucht said that, while the question of how to treat the
audiovisual field dominated the EU trade meeting, the issue
represents only around 2 percent of the overall remit proposed
by the commission. Ireland’s Bruton echoed the point.  “This is a mandate of very considerable scope,” Bruton
said. “It opens up not only negotiation in respect of tariffs
and non-tariff barriers but also the development of rule-making
and standards and mutual recognition.”  Buy America  Other potential areas of discord are public procurement,
where so-called Buy America rules represent barriers for Europe,
and agriculture, including genetically modified foods that the
EU regards more skeptically than the U.S. The EU says data
protection, highlighted by recent revelations of American
government surveillance programs, isn’t covered by the planned
negotiations with the U.S.  Olivier Garnier, chief economist at  Societe Generale  in
Paris, urged caution about the economic benefits of a deal being
touted by both sides because the European and U.S. economies are
already so integrated.  “A free-trade pact is certainly positive for growth over
the long term, but by how much is almost impossible to
measure,” Garnier said in an interview in Paris yesterday. “If
you begin talks with a lot of barriers in place, then a trade
pact can result in a big jump in growth. But the U.S. and the EU
are already in a pretty open situation, so I wouldn’t expect a
 massive effect .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  