-- EU Backs Start of U.S. Trade Talks as France Wins Film Exclusion
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-06-14T21:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/eu-backs-start-of-u-s-trade-talks-as-france-wins-film-exclusion.html
European Union countries authorized
the start of talks with the U.S. on a free-trade agreement after
bowing to French demands to exclude the  film industry .  EU governments gave the European Commission, the bloc’s
regulatory arm, a mandate for negotiations with the U.S. Trade
Representative to expand the world’s biggest economic
relationship. The goal is to remove tariffs, ease regulatory
barriers and expand access in investment, services and public
procurement.  “It will reap rewards on both sides of the Atlantic,”
Irish Trade Minister  Richard Bruton  told reporters today in
Luxembourg after he and his EU counterparts struck a deal on the
scope of the negotiating remit at a 13-hour meeting. Bruton
chaired the gathering and brokered the accord because Ireland
holds the 27-nation bloc’s rotating presidency.  With the EU in a recession, the U.S. in a slow recovery and
the  World Trade Organization  in deadlock over efforts to open
markets, European and American policymakers are seeking
commercial deals with individual countries or groups of nations
to spur growth. Trade will feature at a June 17-18 meeting of
 Group of Eight  leaders in the U.K.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  of  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest
economy, said she would throw her “full political weight
behind” a free-trade pact between the EU and the U.S.  “We need big projects together that unite us,” Merkel
said in an interview today in Berlin. “We ought to use this
window of opportunity.”  Both Sides  An accord between the EU and the U.S. would outrank all
others because both sides already have goods and services trade
valued at $2 billion a day. A deal, which might take two years
or longer to reach, could bring annual economic benefits of 119
billion euros ($159 billion) to Europe and 95 billion euros to
the U.S., according to the Brussels-based commission.  Beyond that, the world economy would get a 100 billion-euro
boost through extra demand and governments around the globe
would be encouraged to embrace EU-U.S. models for everything
from regulatory cooperation to technical standards, says the
commission.  “There’s enough goodwill on both sides to realize this is
the moment to push ahead,” U.K Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said in an interview yesterday in  London .  The current momentum for an accord masks both trans-Atlantic and internal-EU differences that could end up scaling
back any deal or even scuppering one. The hoped-for agreement is
dubbed the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, or
TTIP.  Green Light  Today’s green light by European trade ministers came after
 France  threatened to wield its veto power unless audiovisual
policies were fully excluded from the commission’s negotiating
mandate. The French government cited the principle that culture
can’t be treated as a normal commercial good.  The commission and most EU nations including the U.K. and
Germany opposed that hard-line stance and pressed France to show
flexibility. They proposed instead to fix “redlines” for the
talks to ensure European policies to promote cultural works
wouldn’t be jeopardized while allowing for the possibility of
some concessions to the U.S. in this area so the EU would have
greater leverage over other matters such as American public
procurement.  In their accord, the trade ministers carved the audiovisual
sector out of the mandate to win French support while leaving
the commission the right to request a remit for this sensitive
area at a later stage.  Cultural Services  French Trade Minister Nicole Bricq had said she would
“refuse any mandate that doesn’t include protection of cultural
services and the clear and explicit exclusion of the audiovisual
sector.”  Other potential areas of discord are public procurement,
where “Buy America” rules represent barriers for Europe, and
agriculture, including genetically modified foods that the EU
regards more skeptically than the U.S. The EU says data
protection, a sensitive issue after recent revelations of
American government surveillance programs, isn’t covered by the
planned negotiations with the U.S.  Olivier Garnier, chief economist at  Societe Generale  in
Paris, urged caution about the economic benefits of a deal being
touted by both sides because the European and American economies
are already so integrated.  “A free-trade pact is certainly positive for growth over
the long term, but by how much is almost impossible to
measure,” Garnier said in an interview in Paris today. “If you
begin talks with a lot of barriers in place, then a trade pact
can result in a big jump in growth. But the U.S. and the EU are
already in a pretty open situation, so I wouldn’t expect a
 massive effect .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  