-- Europe Stocks Post Fourth Weekly Loss on Stimulus Concern
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-06-14T16:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/europe-stocks-post-fourth-weekly-loss-on-stimulus-concern.html
European stocks  fell for a fourth
week, the longest streak of losses in more than a year, as
concern grew that central banks may reduce stimulus measures.  Severn Trent Plc posted the biggest weekly drop in more
than 4 1/2 years as a consortium of bidders abandoned an offer
for the water utility.  Legrand (LR)  SA had the largest weekly decline
in a year as Wendel SA sold shares in the company. Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG surged 11 percent after Vodafone Group
Plc approached the German cable operator about a takeover.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 1.5 percent to
291.13 this week, the longest stretch of declines since April
2012. The measure has retreated 6.3 percent since Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22 that the central
bank may lower its stimulus measures if the U.S. economy
improves sustainably.  “What we’re seeing in the markets now is a correction,”
said William de Vijlder, chief investment officer at BNP Paribas
Investment Partners, which oversees 503 billion euros ($671
billion). “Before Bernanke spoke, markets were driven by
enthusiasm about quantitative easing. The big change is the view
on the ground that the most important central bank in the world
might do something about its unconventional monetary policy.”  Stocks fell as investors also speculated that the market
rally has overshot the earnings outlook. Shares on the Stoxx 600
rose to 13.5 times estimated earnings on May 17 from 9 times in
September 2011. That’s the highest valuation since the end of
2009. Stocks on the index traded at 12.9 times projected
earnings as of June 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global Stocks  The MSCI All-Country World Index advanced 20 percent from a
November low through May 21, and has retreated 4.3 percent since
then.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average entered a  bear market 
this week as it plunged more than 20 percent from its May 22
high through June 13.  National benchmark indexes fell in 16 of the 18 western-European markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 1.6
percent.  France ’s CAC 40 decreased 1.7 percent and  Germany ’s  DAX
Index (DAX)  declined 1.5 percent.  The Bank of Japan on June 11 refrained from additional
stimulus measures to raise inflation and boost growth,
continuing its April pledge to increase the monetary base by 60
trillion yen ($620 billion) to 70 trillion yen a year. Japan’s
economy expanded an annualized 4.1 percent in the first quarter,
compared with a preliminary calculation of 3.5 percent, a
Cabinet Office report showed on June 10.  In  Indonesia , the central bank this week unexpectedly
raised its key interest rate for the first time since 2011.  U.S. Data  In the U.S.,  retail sales  climbed in May more than
forecast, Commerce Department data showed. A separate report the
same day showed jobless claims fell more than estimated in the
week ended June 7.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan June preliminary
index of consumer sentiment fell to 82.7 from a final reading of
84.5 the prior month, missing economist forecasts, a report
showed today.  Greece  became the first developed country to be cut to
emerging-market status by MSCI Inc. The country failed to meet
criteria regarding securities borrowing and lending facilities,
short selling and transferability, according to a June 11
statement from MSCI, whose equity indexes are tracked by
investors with about $7 trillion in assets.  The Mediterranean nation’s benchmark  ASE Index (ASE)  dropped 6.8
percent this week as politicians wrangled over the closure of
the state-controlled broadcaster ERT, renewing concerns about
the stability of the Greek government.  Severn Trent  Severn Trent slid 15 percent, its biggest weekly drop since
October 2008. A bidding group led by  Canada ’s Borealis
Infrastructure Management Inc. abandoned a 5.3 billion-pound
($8.3 billion) plan to take over the water utility as a deadline
expired on June 11.  Legrand declined 5.9 percent, the largest weekly decline
since June 2012. Wendel, France’s biggest publicly-traded
investment firm, sold the remaining 14.4 million shares it held
in the world’s largest maker of switches, plugs and lighting
controls on June 11.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc slid 3.5 percent after
saying June 12 that Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester will
resign this year. Hester said he is stepping down at the board’s
request as the state-controlled British bank prepares for
privatization.  Kabel Deutschland advanced 11 percent, the biggest weekly
gain since at least April 2010, after Vodafone said June 12 that
it made a “preliminary approach” to discuss acquiring the
German cable operator to expand in the broadband and TV markets.  Vodafone Bid  Vodafone will bid for Kabel within days, Wirtschaftswoche
magazine reported on June 14, citing unidentified bankers. The
offer would have to exceed 10 billion euros, including debt,
according to the report.  The world’s second-biggest wireless carrier tumbled 6.2
percent. A gauge of telecommunications companies dropped 3.1
percent this week for the worst performance among 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx 600.  Rhoen-Klinikum gained 6.2 percent after shareholders
abolished a 90 percent voting threshold for mergers and other
decisions. The German hospital operator said June 13 that
shareholder B. Braun Holding GmbH is legally challenging the
decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  