-- Euro-Area Inflation Accelerates, Adding to Signs of Recovery
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-06-14T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/euro-area-inflation-accelerates-adding-to-signs-of-recovery-1-.html
Euro-area inflation accelerated in
May, led by the Netherlands, adding to signs the currency bloc’s
economy is beginning to emerge from a record-long recession.  Annual consumer-price growth quickened to 1.4 percent from
1.2 percent in April, in line with an initial estimate on May
31, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said
today. In the month, prices rose 0.1 percent, while the annual
core inflation rate, excluding volatile costs such as energy,
alcohol and tobacco, rose to 1.2 percent from 1 percent in
April.  The  European Central Bank  last week kept its  benchmark
interest rate  at a record low 0.5 percent, with ECB President
 Mario Draghi  saying the euro-area economy “should stabilize and
recover in the course of the year, albeit at a subdued pace.”
The ECB cut its 2013 inflation forecast to 1.4 percent from 1.6
percent.  “Even if we are going to see a gradual economic recovery,
inflation will remain well behaved, I think, next year,” said
Martin van Vliet, senior euro-area economist at ING Bank NV in
Amsterdam. “From an inflation point of view, there’s certainly
some scope for the ECB to do more if necessary.”  The euro-zone economy is forecast to stagnate in the second
quarter before returning to growth, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. Gross domestic product fell 0.2
percent in the first quarter, a  sixth consecutive contraction .  ‘Broadly Balanced’  Draghi on June 6 called euro-area inflation risks “broadly
balanced.” Consumer-price growth has been below the ECB’s  2
percent ceiling  for four months.  Energy costs fell 0.2 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with a drop of 0.4 percent in April, according
to today’s report. The cost of food, alcohol and tobacco rose
3.2 percent after a 2.9 percent annual gain in April, while the
cost of services increased 1.5 percent.  Continued lower energy costs have given a boost to euro-zone factory output, which unexpectedly  increased for a third
month  in April. A Markit Economics gauge of manufacturing output
increased to the highest in 15 months in May, a report showed on
June 3.  “Euro-zone manufacturers are being helped by softer oil
and commodity prices, which are easing pressure on their margins
and giving them more scope to price competitively,” said  Howard Archer , chief U.K. and European economist at IHS Global Insight
in  London .  Russia’s OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural-gas
producer, said on June 4 that it sees its average price for
European customers dropping for the first time in four years.
Buyers including EON SE and  Eni SpA (ENI)  have been pressuring Gazprom
for discounts since its average gas price reached a record in
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  