-- Ex-N.Y. Senator Espada Gets Five Years for Embezzlement
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-06-14T17:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/ex-n-y-senator-espada-gets-five-years-for-embezzlement.html
Former  New York  legislator Pedro Espada Jr. was sentenced to five years in prison for embezzling
from a Bronx clinic network that he ran and lying on tax forms.  Espada, 59, was sentenced today at a hearing in federal
court in  Brooklyn , New York, by U.S. District Judge Frederic Block. The ex-state Senate majority leader had requested
probation, citing his past health-care advocacy work in poor
communities. He faced as long as 87 months in prison under non-binding federal guidelines.  “I do credit the good that you’ve done in the community,
and the good deeds you’ve done in your past life,” Block said
to Espada during the hearing.  A jury in Brooklyn convicted Espada in May 2012 of four
counts of stealing from the now-defunct Soundview Healthcare
Network. He was accused of embezzling more than $500,000 from
the clinic network, which received as much as $1 million per
year in public funding.  In October, Espada pleaded guilty in Manhattan federal
court to a charge of filing a false  tax return . Espada’s son,
Pedro Gautier Espada, was also charged in the Brooklyn case.
Jurors were unable to reach a verdict on any of the counts
against him. He pleaded guilty in October to misdemeanor theft
of public money and failure to file a tax return.  Additional Funds  “What I created as a young man was not a piggybank,” the
elder Espada said during the hearing today, referring to the
Soundview clinics. “You do as you want, your honor, because
that is your job.”  He was also ordered today to pay $118,531 to the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service and to forfeit additional funds. Block
ordered that Espada, who has been free on bail, be sent
immediately to jail after the sentencing. Prosecutors requested
that he be taken into custody because he had contacted jurors in
violation of a court order.  The Brooklyn case is U.S. v. Espada, 10-cr-985, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The
 Manhattan  case is U.S. v. Espada, 1:12-cr-00235, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  