-- Exchanges Said to Prepare Pilot Programs for Changing Tick Sizes
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i   a n d   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-06-14T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/exchanges-said-to-prepare-pilot-programs-for-changing-tick-sizes.html
Proposals to study changing the
price increments at which some U.S. stocks change hands may be
getting closer to implementation.  Executives from the biggest American exchanges are drafting
a pilot program that would widen so-called tick sizes on about
100 smaller and less-liquid securities for a year, according to
a document seen by  Bloomberg News . Another would cover lower-priced, active stocks to see if smaller increments would benefit
investors, the document showed.  Most American shares have been bought and sold at prices
denominated in pennies for more than a decade after the spread
was narrowed in an initiative known as decimalization, which
some economists say hurt liquidity by lowering profits for
market makers. Those professionals, who help facilitate orderly
trading, earn money by collecting the difference between the
highest price to buy a share and the lowest to sell.  “The exchanges have been asked to construct pilots,” said
David Weild, head of  capital markets  for  Grant Thornton  LLP and
former vice chairman of the Nasdaq Stock Market. “The SEC is
obviously moving ahead, or they would not be putting people
through the process.”  Officials from the  New York Stock Exchange (NYX)  and Nasdaq held
discussions with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the
past week on the pilots, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter who asked not to be identified because
the talks were private.  Best Knowledge  The SEC has asked exchange officials to help draw up the
plans because they know the most about how securities trade,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the
discussions. Under SEC rules, exchanges have the authority to
jointly propose marketwide plans that affect share transactions.
The commission hasn’t set a deadline for reporting back, the
people said.  U.S. markets moved to pricing in pennies from sixteenths of
a dollar in 2001 as part of a law intended to reduce costs for
investors. President  Barack Obama ’s Jumpstart Our Business
Startups Act of 2012 authorized the SEC to look at the impact of
decimalization and set a minimum trading increment of as much as
10 cents for emerging-growth companies, or those with revenue of
less than $1 billion a year.  Economic Incentives  Market makers and dealers need more economic incentives to
bring smaller companies public, provide bids and offers and
publish stock research, according to Weild. As many as 350
initial public offerings a year raised less than $25 million
from 1991 to 1997, according to data compiled by Grant Thornton.
Fewer than 50 did so annually on average starting in 2000, the
data show.  The SEC in February hosted an event to discuss the
possibility of a pilot program. Its staff favors a pilot program
based on the support market participants showed for the idea at
a February roundtable, SEC Acting Trading and Markets Director
John Ramsay said in March.  Sara Rich, an NYSE Euronext spokeswoman, and Robert Madden,
a Nasdaq spokesman, declined to comment on the pilot programs.
 Randy Williams , a BATS Global Markets Inc. spokesman, also
declined to comment. SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to
comment.  A separate proposal would govern lower-priced equities that
see the highest trading volume. Proponents of the measure say
increments can be smaller for these stocks because there is no
need to incentivize traders to provide a market.  Six Months  That pilot would last six months and feature 100
securities, though participation by traders would be optional.
As with the small-cap study, the exchanges would report to the
SEC each month on whether spreads on illiquid stocks narrow and
if more shares are displayed for purchase or sale at competitive
prices. Such a plan would be subject to public comment and the
approval of SEC commissioners, who haven’t signed off, according
to the people.  The SEC has asked the exchanges to flesh out how long the
pilot would last and how to link the minimum quoting increment
to variables such as market capitalization or trading volume.  The SEC and exchanges are working on the pilot as some
lawmakers in Congress say smaller public companies should be
allowed to select their own tick size. A bill introduced last
month by Representative David Schweikert, an  Arizona  Republican,
would allow certain companies to choose increments of either 5
cents or 10 cents.  Companies would be eligible if fewer than 500,000 of their
shares trade per day or if the value of shares available for
purchase is under $500 million. Representative  Sean Duffy , a
Wisconsin Republican, said at a House hearing yesterday that he
plans to introduce a bipartisan bill that would require the SEC
to conduct a pilot program for wider tick sizes.  “I would be really surprised if something doesn’t happen
before the end of the year,”  Weild of Grant Thornton LLP said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  