-- FDIC’s Hoenig Cautions Banks Against Seeking 20% Equity Return
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-06-14T19:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/fdic-s-hoenig-cautions-banks-against-seeking-20-equity-return.html
Thomas Hoenig, vice chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., said banks chasing 20 percent
returns are aiming too high.  At a Brookings Institution event today in  Washington ,
Hoenig said he believes banks are pursuing such returns and the
risks inherent in that goal are more suited to hedge funds. He
didn’t identify specific banks.  “If they’ve now targeted a return on equity that’s 20
percent, we have a problem,” he said during a panel discussion
of whether some banks are too big or otherwise too important for
governments to allow them to fail in a crisis.  ROE, a measure of how well a company uses shareholder
funds, was 13 percent in the first quarter at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co., (JPM)  the biggest U.S. bank by assets, and 12.4 percent at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest, according to the
New York-based firms’ filings with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Former Merrill Lynch & Co. Chief Executive Officer John Thain, now running  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , said this week it would be
“totally unrealistic” for large, global banks to aim for ROEs
in the mid-teens or 20 percent because of new capital
requirements and regulations. He said “low-teen returns” would
be good.  Hoenig, a Republican member of the FDIC board who was
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, said that
if banks hold a 10 percent tangible capital ratio -- a leverage
goal he said is good for industry stability -- they “can still
have a very good return on equity.”  H. Rodgin Cohen, a lawyer who has represented big banks as
senior chairman at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, said that existing
leverage ratios have been “woefully inadequate” and need to be
“significantly higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  