-- Fed Lack of Clarity Drives Volatility, Deutsche’s Ruskin Says
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-06-14T18:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/fed-lack-of-clarity-drives-volatility-deutsche-s-ruskin-says.html
Ben S. Bernanke’s efforts to provide
better communication to markets have backfired as investors
speculating on the Federal Reserve chairman’s plans to taper
bond buying have driven volatility higher, according to  Alan Ruskin  of Deutsche Bank AG.  “We want to know a lot in terms of clarity -- what are the
data parameters behind this? When you taper, how do you taper?”
Ruskin, global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy in
New York at Deutsche Bank, said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Scarlet Fu. The Fed’s
“transparency isn’t actually working terribly well -- it’s
actually engendering market volatility.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G7 Volatility Index jumped 17
percent in May, after reaching a more than five-year low in
December. That rise has helped stifle gains in the carry trade,
which involves borrowing in low-interest-rate currencies to buy
higher-yielding assets.  Deutsche Bank’s G10 FX  Carry Basket index  fell 3.3 percent
last month, the biggest decline since May 2012. The measure had
increased for three straight quarters through March. Higher
volatility undermines the strategy because the risk in such
trades is that market moves will erase profits.  Fed policy makers next meet on June 18-19 after Bernanke
said on May 22 the central bank could reduce its monthly
purchases of $45 billion of Treasuries and $40 billion of
mortgage-backed securities, known as quantitative easing, if the
employment outlook shows sustainable improvement. Stimulus tends
to debase the currency.  A Bloomberg survey of 59 economists estimates the central
bank will reduce its buying to $65 billion a month at its Oct.
29-30 meeting.  “People perceive the idea that the Fed is itching really
to remove QE, not really because the data has changed, but
because the costs related to QE are seen as too high to bear at
this point,” Ruskin said. “What the marketplace wants is
certainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  