-- Feinstein Eyes Limit on Contractor Access After NSA Leaks
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-06-14T15:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/feinstein-eyes-limit-on-contractor-access-after-nsa-leaks.html
The Senate Intelligence Committee
will consider legislation to limit government contractors’
access to sensitive data after a worker leaked details about
classified spy programs, panel Chairman  Dianne Feinstein  said.  Feinstein, a  California  Democrat, also said she has asked
Director of National Intelligence James Clapper to propose
revisions in management of intelligence programs if he thinks
they are needed.  “We will consider changes,” Feinstein said after a closed
briefing with Clapper yesterday. “We will certainly have
legislation which will limit or prevent contractors from
handling highly classified technical data.”  Former contractor Edward Snowden admitted leaking details
about the National Security Agency’s collection of telephone and
Internet data to the U.K. Guardian and Washington Post
newspapers. Snowden worked for NSA contractors including McLean,
Virginia-based  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , his most
recent employer.  Intelligence agencies are conducting “a very serious
review” of contractor operations, said Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican and chairman of the House
Intelligence Committee.  Snowden was “a fairly low-level” worker who had access to
classified information because of his position, Rogers told
reporters in  Washington  following a separate classified briefing
on the NSA leaks.  Internal Controls  “Those kinds of people obviously raise concerns and I
think there’s a thorough scrub today to make sure all the
protections that are in place are continuing to happen,” Rogers
said. “We’re also looking at internal controls to make sure
that if something was missed here, something doesn’t get missed
in the future.”  Rogers didn’t say whether his panel would consider crafting
legislation to limit contractors’ access to data.  Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia , the top Republican on
the Senate Intelligence Committee, said the U.S. must improve
controls on contractors although he’s not convinced legislation
is needed.  “We’ve got to do a better job of making sure that our Top
Secret clearances go to only those individuals that deserve
it,” Chambliss said. People with such clearance should be
reviewed periodically “to determine whether or not there’s any
reason to suspect that they may have compromised U.S
intelligence.”  Federal Employees  Contractors shouldn’t do the type of work and have access
to the information Snowden had,  Jane Harman , director of the
Woodrow Wilson International Center, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  for “Capitol Gains” airing
June 16. Harman is a former House member from California and was
the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee.  “I think they should all be federal employees,” she said.
“I don’t think there should be an opportunity to move out of
government and go to a private contractor.”  The U.S. government needs “a seamless way to track people
who have jobs like this and clearances like this,” Harman said.  About 1.4 million Americans held Top Secret clearances as
of October, including about 483,000 who worked for contractors,
according to the Director of National Intelligence’s office.
Snowden held a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information
clearance, a classification above Top Secret.  ‘Sophisticated’ Skills  Government agencies must use contractors who have Top
Secret clearances because federal agencies can’t “compete well
for sophisticated technology skills” in their own employees,
said Stan Soloway, president of the Professional Services
Council. The Arlington, Virginia-based group represents
contractors such as  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  and  CACI International Inc. (CACI)   “The conduit to those skills is the private sector,” he
said.  Legislation barring contractors from accessing secret data
would be “overkill in the extreme,” Soloway said in an
interview. “This case has zero to do with the fact that Snowden
was a contractor.”  Such legislation would be “misplaced,” said Robert
Burton, acting administrator of the Office of Federal
Procurement Policy under President  George W. Bush  and now a
partner at the law firm Venable LLP in Washington.  “There is an equal risk that a contractor or government
employee may illegally release highly classified data,” Burton
said in an e-mail. By banning contractors’ access to classified
data, “the government will jeopardize agency programs and
missions by prohibiting access to the expertise and skills
offered by contractor employees.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  