-- Forint’s Weekly Gain Set to Top Emerging Markets: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-06-14T10:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/forint-s-weekly-gain-set-to-top-emerging-markets-budapest-mover.html
The forint strengthened, poised for
the best weekly advance among emerging-market currencies, and
bond yields plunged on signs  Hungary ’s economy is rebounding
from a recession amid a global recovery.  The currency gained as much as 0.8 percent and traded 0.3
percent stronger at 291.3 per euro by 11:07 a.m. in Budapest,
the highest in more than a week. It headed for a 1.7 percent
advance in the past five days, the best performance among more
than 20 emerging-market peers monitored by Bloomberg. Yields on
10-year notes fell 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, to
5.87 percent, the lowest level in more than a week.  Hungary’s industrial  output  expanded for the first time
this year in April, data from the statistics office in Budapest
showed today, matching its preliminary estimate. Hungary’s
economic growth in 2013 may surpass the government’s 0.7 percent
forecast, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said in an MR1 radio
interview today. Data today may show U.S. industrial output rose
0.2 percent in May, according to a Bloomberg survey, a day after
reports on retail sales and jobless claims beat estimates.  “Investor sentiment mostly improved on the better-than-expected U.S. macroeconomic data,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, a
Budapest-based analyst at Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in a
research report today.  The forint weakened to a six-week low on June 11 and
Hungary’s 10-year bond yields rose to a two-month high as
concern the U.S. Federal Reserve may scale back its monthly bond
purchases reduced investors appetite for riskier assets.  “Sentiment will probably remain volatile because of the
uncertainties over the continued quantitative easing policy from
the Fed,” Arokszallasi wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  