-- France Pressed by EU to Clear Way for U.S. Free-Trade Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-06-14T12:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/france-is-pressed-by-eu-to-clear-way-for-u-s-free-trade-talks.html
France  faced calls from its European
Union partners to lift threats to block the start of free-trade
talks with the U.S. unless audiovisual works are fully excluded.  EU trade ministers meeting today in Luxembourg will decide
whether to give the European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory
arm, a mandate for negotiations with the U.S. to expand the
world’s biggest economic relationship. The goal is to remove
tariffs, ease regulatory barriers and expand access in
investment, services and public procurement.  The French government has demanded a blanket exclusion of
audiovisual policies from the scope of any negotiating remit,
citing the principle that culture can’t be treated as a normal
commercial good. Other EU governments and the Brussels-based
commission say that stance is too hard-line and instead vow to
protect current European policies that promote cultural works
while allowing for the possibility of some concessions to the
U.S. in this area.  “It will require flexibility on all sides to reach
agreement,” Trade Minister  Richard Bruton  of Ireland, current
holder of the 27-nation EU’s rotating presidency, told reporters
as the Luxembourg meeting participants headed to lunch after an
initial round of deliberations. “I remain ambitious and we are
not going to leave any opportunity behind us. We are going to
work on every possible lead.”  Two Years  With the EU in  a recession , the U.S. in a slow recovery and
the  World Trade Organization  in deadlock over efforts to open
markets, European and American policymakers are seeking
commercial deals with individual countries or groups of nations
to spur growth. Trade will feature at a June 17-18 meeting of
Group of Eight leaders in the U.K.  An accord between the EU and the U.S. would outrank all
others because both sides already have goods and services trade
valued at $2 billion a day. A deal, which might take two years
or longer to reach, could bring annual economic benefits of 119
billion euros ($159 billion) to  Europe  and 95 billion euros to
the U.S., according to the commission in Brussels.  “There’s enough goodwill on both sides to realize this is
the moment to push ahead,” U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said in an interview yesterday in  London .  French Trade Minister Nicole Bricq stuck to Paris’s
uncompromising line in the meeting’s morning session.  ‘Cultural Exception’  France “will refuse any mandate that doesn’t include
protection of cultural services and the clear and explicit
exclusion of the audiovisual sector,” Bricq said in a statement
of her remarks to fellow EU ministers that was handed out by
French officials. “You know the extreme sensitivity of European
creators.”  A European film-industry delegation showed up at the
European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, three days ago to say
the “cultural exception” isn’t negotiable. Greek-French movie
director Costa Gavras warned of an American “cultural
invasion” should talks with the U.S. cover the audiovisual
industry.  That stance is too rigid for the commission and for most EU
countries including the U.K., Germany and  Finland , which want to
seek the broadest possible accord with  Washington .  “It’s very difficult to envisage a solution which would
have a total carve out” of audiovisual policies, Finnish Trade
Minister Alexander Stubb told reporters today in Luxembourg.
“There’s absolutely nothing that threatens the French or the
European  film industry . And I shall certainly continue to watch
all of my beloved French movies even after this free-trade
negotiation has been finalized.”  ‘50-50’  Stubb put the chances of an EU ministerial accord today at
“50-50.”  “I hope that we find a solution which is acceptable for
the French,” he said.  Anne Ruth Herkes, a German Economics Ministry state
secretary with responsibility for trade, pressed France to show
flexibility. She said other EU nations and the commission were
taking a “reasonable” approach.  “We are all for cultural diversity,” Herkes said.
“France has to move a bit. It’s that way for all of us
occasionally. Today France has to  do it .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  