-- Freeport Indonesia Workers Call Off Strike, Continue Maintenance
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-06-14T09:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/freeport-indonesia-workers-call-off-strike-continue-maintenance.html
PT  Freeport (FCX)  Indonesia workers called
off a strike planned for today that would have halted
maintenance at the world’s biggest copper mine, after the
company suspended officials held responsible for an accident,
according to a union official.  Workers will continue maintenance as normal at the Grasberg
deposit, where output has stopped since the tunnel collapse on
May 14 that killed 28 people, Virgo Solossa, an official at the
All Indonesian Workers Union, said by phone today.  The continued maintenance means Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc. will be able to restart production and resume
shipments more quickly once it gets approval from the
government, which has said the mine will stay shut until after a
probe is completed. Investigators will report the results to the
energy ministry by early next week, Ridho Wattimena, head of an
independent team, said by phone yesterday.  An official at Freeport Indonesia did not comment today
when asked whether it had suspended the managers the union holds
responsible for the accident. Daisy Primayanti, its vice
president of corporate communications, confirmed in a phone text
message that the union had canceled the strike.  Freeport on June 12 declared force majeure on shipments
from the mine, a clause that allows it to miss obligations
because of circumstances beyond its control. It said the
shutdown is cutting copper output by 1,361 tons a day, equal to
2.9 percent of average daily global production in 2013. The
stoppage has buoyed benchmark copper prices, which rose as much
as 1.3 percent to $7,141.75 a metric ton today on the London
Metal Exchange before trading at $7,087.  Smelters in Indonesia and  Japan  have said they are looking
for alternative ore supply because of the shutdown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  