-- German Stocks Rise as Investors Weigh Economy, Stimulus
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-06-14T15:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/german-stocks-gain-as-benchmark-dax-heads-for-weekly-drop.html
German stocks  advanced, paring a
weekly drop for the benchmark DAX Index, as investors weighed
U.S. economic data and stimulus policies from central banks.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  jumped 5.9 percent after saying it will buy
back as much as 260 million euros ($347 million) of its own
shares.  Lanxess AG (LXS)  gained 2.5 percent after Kepler Cheuvreux
upgraded its recommendation on the stock.  The DAX Index added 0.4 percent to 8,127.96 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt . The equity benchmark still lost 1.5
percent this week on concern that the Federal Reserve will start
to taper its bond-purchase program in September. The broader
HDAX Index rose 0.5 percent today.  “Overall good numbers in the U.S. with confidence data
hovering around the highs of the year,” Ion-Marc Valahu, co-founder and fund manager at Clairinvest in Geneva, wrote in an
e-mail. “This should be a positive for the markets.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the  DAX
index (DAX)  was 29 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Industrial production in the U.S. was unchanged in May,
data showed. Last month’s output at factories, mines and
utilities followed a revised 0.4 percent decrease in April that
was smaller than previously reported, a Federal Reserve report
showed. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a
0.2 percent advance.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan June preliminary
 index  of consumer sentiment fell to 82.7 from a final reading of
84.5 the prior month, a report today showed. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey was for 84.5.  Hochtief Buyback  Hochtief gained 5.9 percent to 51.75 euros, the biggest
increase in four months. The Essen, Germany-based company
controlled by Spain’s Actividades de Construccion & Servicios
SA, plans to buy as many as 4.3 million shares, representing
about 5.6 percent of its capital, over the next six months.  Lanxess, the chemical manufacturer that joined the DAX in
September, gained 2.5 percent to 54.64 euros after Kepler
Cheuvreux upgraded the shares to buy from hold, citing signs of
an improvement in the sector as demand increases on low
inventory levels.  Preferred shares of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest
carmaker, rose 0.7 percent to 159.15 euros after reporting group
sales that increased 6.9 percent to 816,500 units in May.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest supplier of auto
parts, advanced 1.9 percent to 100.80 euros. Michelin & Cie,
Europe’s largest tiremaker, rose today after its website showed
demand for tires surged in  Brazil  last month.  A gauge of carmakers was the third-best performer of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, gained 3
percent to 14.92 euros. JPMorgan Chase & Co. recommended
investors buy the stock on current share-price weakness.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , operator of the Frankfurt stock
exchange, gained 0.9 percent to 48.39 euros after  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said that the German government is listening to
investor complaints about the proposed financial transactions
tax and will take their views into account when designing the
levy at a European level.  Merkel, in an interview in the Chancellery in Berlin today,
signaled she’s sensitive to industry concerns the tax in its
current form threatens to backfire, hurting pensions and
damaging the wider economy without raising the revenue planned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  