-- Godawari Starts Asia’s Biggest Solar-Thermal Power Plant
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-06-14T09:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/godawari-starts-asia-s-biggest-solar-thermal-power-plant.html
Godawari Power & Ispat Ltd. (GODPI)  started
 Asia ’s biggest solar-thermal plant as  India  limps toward clean-energy targets with prices almost half the global average.  The 50-megawatt plant in northwest Rajasthan state boasts
5,760 mirrors that concentrate the sun’s rays, generating steam
to drive turbines, project Managing Director Siddharth Agrawal
said in an interview. Output started a month behind schedule.  India, beset by blackouts as coal-power stations are idled
for lack of fuel, plans to install 20,000 megawatts of solar
capacity by 2022, up from 1,700 megawatts now. The Godawari
plant, delayed by slow U.S. supplies and desert dust clouds, is
symptomatic of an industry where soaring costs and technical
hurdles have set back all projects from an inaugural auction.  “It’s a bit soon to declare this an engineering success,”
said Jenny Chase, Zurich-based chief solar analyst for Bloomberg
New Energy Finance. “Whether it can be commissioned is not the
same question as whether it will work as predicted, never mind
whether it will make money.”  Godawari’s plant and the other six projects that prevailed
in the 2010 auction won licenses by pledging to sell power at an
average of 11,480 rupees ($197) a megawatt-hour. That’s 43
percent below the global average of $344, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Expenses Climb  The lower price may weigh on finances at the Godawari
project, which already overshot its budget by almost 20 percent.
Costs were pushed up by a lack of local components, a weakening
rupee and a 28-month deadline that restricted its ability to
negotiate terms with lenders and contractors, Agrawal said.  “I paid more so that my work wouldn’t stop,” the director
said, estimating he paid 25 percent more for imported components
because of the lack of time. “We took the hit.”  Supplier  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  almost doubled the price for its
critical heat-transfer fluid to $5.67 a kilogram in the months
following the bid, according to Agrawal. The project was further
set back when a dust storm caused a building at the site to
collapse, delaying construction by a month, while the rupee
depreciated 23 percent against the dollar since the auction.  Godawari’s plant is the first to be completed of the
auction’s seven projects, which total 470 megawatts in capacity
and require about $1 billion in investments.  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR) ’s 100-megawatt plant is about six
months behind deadline, while the remainder are stalled by
rising costs and technical setbacks, according to Tarun Kapoor,
joint secretary at the Ministry of New and  Renewable Energy .  Share Performance  Godawari has fallen 34 percent this year in Mumbai trading.
The  shares  rose as much as 3.9 percent today, and were up 2.2
percent at 78.05 rupees as of 3:04 p.m. local time, compared
with a 1.8 percent gain in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  India is pressing ahead with its plans to expand the solar-thermal industry in a bid to reach grid parity, where the cost
of power from clean-energy turbines equals that of electricity
from the national transmission network.  “Solar thermal is the only solution for grid parity,”
Agrawal said. “Photovoltaic can’t take you to that scale.”  Solar-thermal technology benefits from being able to store
and supply energy around the clock, like coal and gas-fired
plants. Godawari hasn’t yet managed to keep turbines running
through the night, Agrawal said, citing a lack of policy
support.  Worst Location  Developers from the inaugural auction have suffered from
being first, said Lavleen Singal, president of Acira Solar Pvt.,
which has supplied equipment to three of the projects as well as
to the government. The companies, all but one of which chose to
build in Rajasthan, lacked reliable solar-radiation data when
they bid and may have picked one of India’s worst locations,
according to Singal, who said the desert dust curbs generation.
The latest data favor Chhattisgarh and  Madhya Pradesh , he said.  They were also hurt by overpricing from U.S. and European
suppliers with virtual monopolies over niche products such as
heat-transfer fluid and absorber tubes, Singal said. Future
projects could contain costs by turning to  China , which is
offering both items at half the price, he said.  Godawari, based in Raipur, Chhattisgarh, is primarily a
steelmaker and iron-ore producer, and expanded into solar power
to diversify its sources of revenue.  “This was a big investment for a pure steel and mining
player into a sector in which it doesn’t have any experience,”
said Abhisar Jain, a Mumbai-based analyst at Centrum Broking
Ltd. who maintained a  buy  recommendation on the shares. “It’s
been a bit of a drag on the stock since its announcement.”  The plant’s profitability will depend on its efficiency
because even a slight reduction in generation means “the
project’s returns drop quickly,” Jain said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  