-- Google Said to Negotiate With Government on Data Requests
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-06-15T02:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/google-said-to-negotiate-with-government-on-data-requests.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  are
holding discussions with the U.S. government to disclose more
information about national-security requests, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The people asked not to be identified because the talks
aren’t public. The negotiations follow Google’s  open letter  to
Attorney General Eric Holder and Federal Bureau of Investigation
Director  Robert Mueller  earlier this week, asking for more
leeway to report aggregate numbers of data requests.  Facebook General Counsel Ted Ullyot wrote in a  blog post 
late today that the social-networking service received
permission to disclose some information about U.S. national
security-related orders, though it may release numbers only in
aggregate and as a range. He wrote that Facebook received
between 9,000 and 10,000 requests for user data, affecting
18,000 to 19,000 user accounts, in the second half of 2012.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Facebook joined Google in asking for
disclosure permission, seeking to reassure customers that
authorities don’t have unfettered access to users’ personal
details. While the companies have said they don’t give the
government direct access to their systems, thousands of
technology, finance and manufacturing businesses are swapping
intelligence with U.S. national security agencies, four other
people familiar with the process said.  Chris Gaither , a spokesman for Google, and Andrew Ames, a
spokesman for the  Justice Department , declined to comment.  AllThingsD reported the Web companies’ negotiations with
the government earlier today.  PRISM Program  The role of private companies has come under scrutiny since
Edward Snowden, a computer technician who did work for the
National Security Agency, disclosed this month that the agency
is collecting millions of U.S. residents’ telephone records and
the computer communications of foreigners from Google and other
Internet companies under court order.  “Google’s numbers would clearly show that our compliance
with these requests falls far short of the claims being made,”
 David Drummond , chief legal officer at Google, wrote on a blog
post. “Google has nothing to hide.”  Secret Panel  The U.S. government program, code-named PRISM, traces its
roots to warrantless domestic-surveillance efforts under former
President  George W. Bush . According to slides provided by
Snowden, PRISM gathers e-mails, videos and other private data of
foreign surveillance targets through arrangements that vary by
company, overseen by a secret panel of judges.  The technology companies said they hand over data to the
government only when compelled by law to do so. AOL Inc.,  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and Paltalk.com released statements saying they’ve never
heard of PRISM and don’t give authorities access without a court
order.  Google is seeking to disclose requests within the rules of
national security laws, including the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act. The three-decade-old law lets intelligence
agencies monitor the communications of non-U.S. citizens
reasonably believed to be located outside the U.S. and involved
in terrorist activities or other crimes.  Along with the NSA, the Central Intelligence Agency, the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  and branches of the U.S.
military have agreements with companies to gather data that
might seem innocuous yet could be highly useful in the hands of
U.S. intelligence or cyberwarfare units, according to the
people, who have either worked for the government or are in
companies that have these accords.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  