-- Groupon Surges as Mobile App Seen Boosting Coupon Use
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-06-14T20:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/groupon-surges-as-mobile-app-seen-boosting-coupon-use.html
  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the biggest daily
deal website, jumped 12 percent after analysts at Deutsche Bank
AG upgraded the stock, citing optimism that increasing use of
the company’s mobile application can boost sales.  The  shares  rose to $7.65 at the close in  New York , for the
biggest gain since March 1. The stock has advanced 57 percent
this year, compared with a 14 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Co-Chief Executive Officers Eric Lefkofsky and  Ted Leonsis 
are working to stabilize the company while they search for a
replacement for  Andrew Mason , the Groupon co-founder they ousted
as CEO in February amid faltering growth. Groupon, which started
out promoting discounts via e-mail alerts, is adding customers
as more smartphone users turn to its mobile app, according to
 Ross Sandler , an analyst at Deutsche Bank.  “Groupon is surprisingly the most mobile penetrated e-commerce company we track,” Sandler wrote in a research report
today. He upgraded the shares to buy from hold and raised his
target price to $10 from $6.  Aided by a surge in sales to mobile users, revenue will
surge 53 percent to $3.56 billion in 2015 from $2.33 billion
last year, Sandler estimated. That exceeds analysts’ average
projection for 2015 sales of $3.04 billion, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Chicago-based company makes money by offering consumers
discounts --known as Groupons -- from businesses such as
restaurants and nail salons. It then shares the revenue with the
businesses.  ‘Consistent Platform’  Coupons sold on mobile devices accounted for 45 percent of
all transactions in  North America  in the first quarter, up from
less than 30 percent a year earlier, the company said last
month. The increase was driven by product improvements such as
mobile search as well as growth in the number of local deals
offered via wireless devices, Chief Financial Officer Jason Child said in an interview at the time.  “Mobile is the key story in North America,” Child said.  Groupon will also benefit as it integrates companies
acquired outside the U.S. to improve the mobile service for
international users,  Sameet Sinha , an analyst at B. Riley & Co.,
said in an interview.  “They were growing so fast, and all these markets were
growing on separate platforms,” said Sinha, who has a neutral
rating on the shares and a $5 target price. “Now, what Groupon
is saying is, ‘That’s not going to work. We need to be on one
consistent platform.’”  ‘Geographically Targeted’  To speed expansion outside the U.S., Groupon last month
invested in  SumUp Ltd. , which allows credit card payments via
smartphones or tablets.  Even as Groupon adds mobile users, the company may still
struggle to bolster revenue as customers become weary of daily-deals, according to  Erik Gordon , a business and law professor at
the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor .  “The mobile app won’t solve the deal fatigue problem, but
mobile is a better channel for them because half their audience
now avoids e-mail,” Gordon said. “E-mail is slow and clunky
and easy to ignore. Mobile apps are fast and easy, and can be
more precisely geographically targeted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  