-- Guinness Nigeria Sees Consumer Improvement Nearer Elections
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-06-14T07:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/guinness-nigeria-sees-consumer-improvement-nearer-elections-1-.html
Guinness Nigeria Plc (GUINNESS) , the West
African nation’s second-largest brewer, said  consumer spending 
will probably improve closer to 2015 elections as the government
pumps cash into the economy.  “We will see a better economy for the consumer next year
and that should factor into better performances,” Chief
Executive Officer Seni Adetu said in a June 7 phone interview
from the company’s headquarters in Lagos, the commercial
capital. The central bank will be trying “to control liquidity
and inflation, but I don’t think it will change the fact that
politicians will be spending money,” he said.  Companies including Guinness Nigeria,  Nestle Nigeria Plc (NESTLE) 
and  Unilever Nigeria Plc (UNILEVER)  have reported falling profit as an
acceleration in food inflation to 10 percent and gun and bomb
attacks by militant Islamists in northern  Nigeria  curbed
spending. The government increased its budget 17 percent just
before presidential elections in 2011 to fund campaigning and
other voting incentives.  Growth in the $269 billion economy, Africa’s largest
outside  South Africa , will quicken to 7.2 percent this year from
6.3 percent in 2012, International Monetary Fund projections
show. That compares with an estimated 5.6 percent growth rate
for Sub-Saharan Africa.  Rising Prices  Net income at Guinness Nigeria fell 18 percent to 7.6
billion naira ($47.2 million) in the nine months through March,
while revenue increased 3 percent to 94.9 billion naira, the
company said in a May 13 statement. Guinness Nigeria’s  stock  has
decreased 1.8 percent this year, compared with a 33 percent gain
on the  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index. (NGSEINDX)   Nigerian consumer discretionary income has also been
subdued by the government’s partial removal of fuel subsidies in
January 2012, Adetu said. The  World Bank  estimates almost 63
percent of the population lives in  poverty , or less than $1.25
per day. Food prices soared 10 percent in April from a year
earlier, compared with 9.5 percent the previous month, according
to the  National Bureau of Statistics .  “The consumer is having to put a lot more into things like
transportation, accommodation, food, school fees and so on,”
Adetu said. “The beer industry is clearly feeling the impact of
that and the market is sort of flat or declining marginally.”  Hinder Transportation  President  Goodluck Jonathan  imposed emergency rule in the
states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa on May 14 to step up the fight
against Islamist militants, who he said were taking over parts
of the country. The armed forces of Africa’s largest oil
producer then began an air and ground offensive against the
organization Boko Haram, which is seeking to impose Shariah law.  The conflict will “hinder the transportation of
agriculture products,” potentially increasing food inflation
further, Adetu said. The insurgency has “absolutely impeded”
Guinness Nigeria alongside several other companies, he said.  Nigeria is the biggest market globally for Guinness stout
by net revenue, Adetu said. The first Guinness brewery outside
of Ireland and Britain was built in Lagos in 1963 and the unit
listed on the national bourse in 1965, according to the
company’s  website .  Guinness Nigeria also sells Harp lager and non-alcoholic
malt beverages and has about a 30 percent share of the country’s
beer market, according to Adetu. Nigeria’s biggest brewer is
 Nigerian Breweries Plc (NB) , owned by Amsterdam-based  Heineken NV. (HEIA)   Brewery Expansion  A 225 million pounds ($352.5 million) expansion of the
company’s Benin and Ogba breweries will be close to 90 percent
complete by the end of the company’s fiscal year, Adetu said.  “We’ve got the capacity headroom to take us for the next
three to four years depending on how the market responds and
whatever growth we see,” he said.  Parent company  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest distiller,
is seeking to grow sales by an average of 6 percent annually and
gain 50 percent of revenue from so-called fast-growth  emerging
markets  as European sales wane.  Diageo’s  shares  rose for a second day, up 0.3 percent to
1,905.5 pence at 8:23 a.m. in  London , extending its advance to
6.6 percent this year.  “We’ve still got a few bumps on the way,” Adetu said.
“Medium- to long-term you’d be writing off the Nigerian economy
at your own risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  