-- I&M Bank of Kenya Plans Fundraising for Regional Expansion
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-06-14T11:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/i-m-bank-of-kenya-plans-fundraising-for-regional-expansion-1-.html
I&M Bank Ltd., the Kenyan lender
that begins trading on the nation’s stock exchange this month,
plans to raise money in the next year to fund its regional
expansion, Chief Executive Officer Arun Mathur said.  The bank, based in Nairobi, plans to begin operations in
 Uganda  within 12 months, possibly by acquiring an existing
lender, before venturing into  South Sudan  and  Zambia , Executive
Director Sarit Raja-Shah said in an interview. I&M already
operates in Tanzania, Rwanda and Mauritius.  “We are still thinking of how to raise money,” Mathur,
59, said. He said the company has not yet determined how much it
plans to raise. “There could be a rights issue, there could be
an issue of debt and equity” carried out by July 2014, he said.  Profit increased by 21 percent at banks in  Kenya  last year
to 107.9 billion shillings ($1.26 billion), helped by a surge in
interest income after the central bank raised its benchmark rate
to a record. Total assets grew 15 percent to 2.33 trillion
shillings, according to central bank data. Earnings may grow
further this year as  East Africa ’s biggest economy is forecast
to expand 5.8 percent, the fastest pace in six years.  With 41 other banks operating in Kenya, including Equity
Bank Ltd. and Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd., the two largest by
market value, I&M is expanding regionally as the industry
becomes more competitive, Mathur said.  ‘Potential Acquisitions’  “We have been looking at potential acquisitions in
Uganda,” Raja-Shah said. “If we don’t find the right fit with
our strategy, then we will definitely be looking at going for a
fresh license.”  I&M Holdings Ltd., the bank’s parent company, begins
trading on the Nairobi Securities Exchange on June 25. The
holding company was known as City Trust Holdings Ltd. before a
capital restructuring aimed at improving the liquidity of its
stock, Mathur said. City Trust is being renamed I&M Holdings.  Once regulatory approvals from Rwanda, Tanzania and
Mauritius have been received, I&M Bank’s operations in the three
nations will also become units of I&M Holdings, Mathur said.  Before the transaction, City Trust owned 7.3 percent of I&M
Bank and had 601 shareholders, while the lender had 113
stockholders. One of the biggest shareholders of the holding
company is Biashara Securities Ltd. with a stake of 13.9
percent. The French Development Agency and the German Investment
& Development Co. hold a combined 10.7 percent, individual
investors have 16.3 percent.  Main Market  I&M Holdings “will move to the main market segment from
the alternative investment market segment” of the  Nairobi
Securities Exchange (NSEASI) , Mathur said.  Shares of the company are expected to begin trading at 89.6
shillings following a five-for-one share split, according to
offer documents from City Trust.  I&M Bank has 20 outlets in Kenya and plans to open five
more this year, Mathur said. It has 24 cash machines, he said.  City Trust’s loss in the six months through January widened
to 1.85 million shillings compared with 333,263 shillings a year
earlier, while in the first three months of this year, I&M
Bank’s net income slipped to 938.8 million shillings from 955.6
million shillings, the company said.  Mathur declined to provide any earnings forecasts beyond
saying this year will be “better than last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  