-- Liberty Sells Notes Tied to Australian Commercial Mortgages
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-06-14T06:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/liberty-plans-securities-tied-to-australian-commercial-mortgages.html
Liberty Financial Pty priced A$250
million ($240 million) of notes backed by small business loans
in  Australia ’s first securitized bond deal since 2011 involving
commercial mortgages.  The Melbourne-based company priced the main class of notes,
which have a weighted average life of 1 1/2 years and carry a
preliminary rating of AAA from  Standard & Poor’s , at 150 basis
points more than the bank bill swap rate, according to an e-mailed statement from the borrower.  “We haven’t really seen many deals of this type in
Australia,’ said Alisha Treacy, a credit analyst at S&P in
 Melbourne . The last similar deal that S&P rated was another sale
by Liberty in July 2011, she said.  Liberty joined  Bendigo & Adelaide Bank Ltd. (BEN) , Credit Union
Australia Ltd. and Firstmac Ltd. in seeking funding in the
Australian securitized  bond market  this month, with the other
borrowers offering notes backed by residential home loans. There
have been no sales of unsecured bonds in Australia for more than
a week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The transaction, which was managed by  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
and Credit Suisse Group AG, is Liberty’s third publicly-rated
securitization based on loans to smaller businesses that are
backed by commercial and residential mortgages. The asset pool
includes 20.7 percent commercial property loans and 66.9 percent
residential mortgages, S&P said in a report.  ‘‘The transaction was well supported by investors across
the entire  capital structure ,” Liberty said in its statement.  Business Properties  IMB Ltd. was the last issuer of asset-backed securities
involving business properties in Australia, Bloomberg-compiled
data shows. It sold small-to-medium enterprise bonds backed by a
combination of residential and commercial mortgages in August
2011, according to the data.  Bendigo & Adelaide said yesterday it is planning to issue
as much as A$500 million of notes backed by residential
mortgages. The main class of notes is being offered at 90 to 95
basis points more than BBSW, according to a person familiar with
the matter.  Credit Union Australia this week priced A$675 million of
residential mortgage backed securities, with the top-rated notes
yielding a 100 basis-point spread. Firstmac priced A$500 million
of RMBS on June 7, including a class of notes in British pounds.  Liberty also raised A$700 million this year from two sales
of non-conforming mortgage bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  