-- Iceland Affirms EU Snub as Debt Crisis Drags On
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-06-14T12:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/iceland-affirms-eu-snub-as-debt-crisis-drags-on.html
Iceland’s new government stood by a
decision to halt efforts to join the European Union, saying it
is determined to maintain control over its natural resources and
escape the fallout of the euro debt crisis.  On his first trip abroad after taking office last month,
Foreign Minister Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson resisted an EU plea for
a rapid public referendum on whether to restart the entry bid or
call it off for good.  “We are going to do it our way, this is our decision,”
Sveinsson, 45, said in an interview in Brussels today. “This
government is not going to keep on pushing forward this
application. At some time, there will be a referendum, but I
cannot tell you when and by whom.”  EU leaders had celebrated the prospect of welcoming Iceland
-- a developed nation where the economy grew 1.6 percent in 2012
-- as a sign the bloc’s appeal isn’t limited to poorer nations
in the south. Iceland’s snub changes that.  “It was not easy for me as a person” to learn of the new
mood in Reykjavik, EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule said
after meeting Sveinsson last night. He urged the government in
Reykjavik not to take “unlimited time” on its EU options.  Asked about Fule’s deadline, Sveinsson, a long-time
opponent of the EU bid, said: “I don’t know what time he is
talking about.” He said a referendum to steer Iceland back
toward the EU would only come once a full study of the state of
the EU enables Icelandic leaders to “try to see into the
future.”  Economy Doubts  While Iceland remains tied to the EU’s single market, it
isn’t the first Nordic country to turn its back on membership.
Citizens in  Norway  voted twice against becoming a member, in
1972 and 1994. Iceland’s falling-out with the bloc reflects a
changing cost-benefit analysis.  Iceland sought EU membership in 2009 after the collapse of
its biggest banks left it reliant on international loans,
puncturing the notion the island could survive on its own. The
economy has since rallied, growing while the  euro zone  sank into
recession.  Even after the economic shocks of 2008 and 2009, Iceland is
richer than the average EU country. Its gross domestic product
per person was 111 percent of the EU average in 2011,  regional
data  show.  Croatia , the ex-Yugoslav republic set to join the EU
next month, was at 61 percent.  Unpopular with Iceland’s 320,000 people from the start, the
membership bid ran until January 2013 when in the heat of the
election campaign it was downgraded by the pro-EU government
that launched it. Contacts about entry terms continued until the
new coalition put a stop to them.  With the  economy  of the 17 euro nations, the core of the
27-nation EU, in nonstop contraction since the fourth quarter of
2011, Sveinsson said the critics have been proven right.  “We have seen these economic struggles in  Europe , what
will be the health of the euro in forthcoming years?” he said.
“What is the plan for the European Union in forthcoming
years?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  