-- Mickelson Heads Into U.S. Open Weekend Tied Atop Leaderboard
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-06-15T12:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/mickelson-leads-donald-by-one-stroke-at-rain-slowed-u-s-open.html
Phil Mickelson  enters today’s third
round of the U.S. Open in position to end the weekend as
champion, which would give the five-time runner-up his fifth
major title.  “I just like being in the mix,” Mickelson told reporters
yesterday after shooting a 2-over-par 72 at Merion Golf Club in
Ardmore, Pennsylvania. “The way I have control off the tee and
as good as the putter is, I’m very excited about the opportunity
this weekend.”  Mickelson, finishing his second round just as play was
halted because of darkness last night, sank a birdie putt of
about 25 feet to regain a share of the lead with fellow American
Billy Horschel.  Mickelson, who led the season’s second major championship
at 3 under par after the first round, had three bogeys and 14
pars before sinking the long putt to finish the second round at
1 under.  “I struggled with a lot of short putts, and I’ve been
playing really well,” said Mickelson, who missed two putts from
about three feet yesterday.  Horschel, a 26-year-old who played at the University of
 Florida  before turning professional in 2009, shot a 3-under 67
yesterday to move to 1 under for the tournament. He and
Mickelson are the only players below par.  Ranked 50th in the Official World Golf Ranking after
earning his first U.S. PGA Tour victory in April in  New Orleans ,
Horschel said he didn’t know that he had hit every green in
regulation until he completed his round. He said it’s not the
first time he’s done so.  Horschel’s Nerves  “I was not in the zone, trust me,” Horschel told
reporters. “This golf course, even though it’s soft, is still a
tough golf course. I know what in the zone is for me. I don’t
get nervous, I just see the shot and go. And I saw the shot and
I went with it, but I was still nervous with a lot of them.”  Tiger Woods had an even-par second round to stay at 3 over
for the tournament, four strokes off the lead.  Luke Donald , who at 2 under was one of five golfers who
finished the first round below par, got to 4 under yesterday
before making five bogeys in six holes. The 35-year-old
Englishman had six bogeys and four birdies for the round,
leaving him tied for third at even-par 140.  “I’m pretty satisfied, when looking at the scores,”
Donald said in a televised interview. “I saw some pins where I
didn’t think they were going to put pins and I had a couple
three-putts, but overall I had pretty good control of my golf
ball.”  American  Steve Stricker  and Englishman  Justin Rose  also are
at even par after rounds of 1-under 69, while  England ’s  Ian Poulter  and Chen-Tsung Pan, a 21-year-old amateur from  Taiwan ,
are at even par and have yet to complete their second rounds.  Incomplete Rounds  There are 68 golfers out of a starting field of 156 who
still must complete second-round play today after rain caused
two delays during first-round action.  After a 3-over first round that included six bogeys and
three birdies, Woods had three birdies and as many bogeys during
his second round. He also indicated that his left arm was
hurting after shaking the arm and grimacing on several shots
during the first round. Notah Begay, Woods’s former teammate at
 Stanford University , said on NBC’s broadcast yesterday that
Woods was suffering from an elbow injury.  After his round, Woods refused to discuss the injury in
detail, saying that it occurred at the  Players Championship  in
May.  “I played well,” Woods said of his even-par round
yesterday. “I just made a couple of mistakes out there, but I
really played well. Maybe I could have gotten one or two more
out of it, but it was a pretty good day.’  Title Streak  Woods is seeking his fourth U.S. Open title and his first
major win since beating  Rocco Mediate  in a playoff at the 2008
tournament. A 14-time major winner, Woods had two bogeys and a
birdie yesterday morning while completing his first round.  Woods, Rory McIlroy and  Adam Scott  -- the three top-ranked
golfers in the world -- played together for the first two
rounds. Scott, the Masters Tournament champion, finished at 7
over and McIlroy was 3 over.  The projected cut line is 7 over par. The top 60 golfers
and ties get to play the rest of the weekend.  ‘‘Anything around par is a good score out there,’’
Australian  John Senden , who is 1 over after a second-round 71,
told reporters. ‘‘I’d hate to be here if it hadn’t rained at
all.”  Wet Weather  Second-round tee times were pushed back three hours from
the original schedule yesterday following storms. The rain
further softened a course that was soaked by storms that dumped
about six inches (15 centimeters) of water on Merion in the week
leading up to the tournament.  Merion, which is hosting the U.S. Open for the fifth time
and first since 1981, is the shortest U.S. Open venue since  New
York ’s Shinnecock Hills played at the same yardage in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in Ardmore,  Pennsylvania , at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  