-- Hillshire to Sanderson Seen Luring Foreign Meat Buyers
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h ,   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-06-14T20:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/hillshire-to-sanderson-seen-luring-foreign-meat-buyers.html
Demand for meat in emerging markets,
which spurred the biggest proposed Chinese takeover of a U.S.
company, is turning American producers such as  Hillshire Brands
Co. (HSH)  and  Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM)  into potential acquisition targets.  Hillshire offers buyers a higher free cash flow yield than
97 percent of similar-sized U.S. food manufacturers, while the
price-earnings ratio at Sanderson is cheaper than 92 percent of
the group, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Their
valuations have reached potentially alluring levels at a time
when Brazilian and Chinese companies are the dominant buyers of
U.S. meat producers and have accounted for 92 percent of global
transactions in the past five years, the data show.  Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd.’s $7 billion deal
last month to buy  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  will prompt other large
meat companies from  China ,  Brazil  and  Russia  to evaluate U.S.
targets, said Greg Pearlman, a Chicago-based managing director
at Bank of Montreal. Smithfield’s sale underscores the appeal of
U.S. meat processors, meaning Hillshire, Sanderson and  Hormel (HRL) 
Foods Corp. could lure international buyers looking for high
quality, safe food,  Gimme Credit  LLC said.  “There are a lot of appealing targets that could come into
play,”  Vicki Bryan , a New York-based analyst at Gimme Credit,
said in a telephone interview. “We are at the beginning of what
could be a burgeoning trend.”  Chicken, Pork  Mike Cummins, a spokesman for Chicago-based Hillshire, and
Rick Williamson of Austin, Minnesota-based Hormel declined to
comment. Sanderson Chief Financial Officer Mike Cockrell
declined to comment on acquisitions involving his Laurel,
Mississippi-based company, while adding he wouldn’t be surprised
to see more U.S. meat companies purchased by foreign buyers.  For buyers, Hillshire provides the second-largest share of
the North American chilled processed food market, according to
Euromonitor International. Sanderson is the third-largest U.S.
chicken producer, and Spam maker Hormel is the No. 5 U.S. pork
processor, data compiled by  Tyson (TSN)  Foods Inc. show.  Brazilian and Chinese buyers accounted for $21.9 billion of
the $24 billion in industry deals announced worldwide since June
2008, fueled by a growing middle class that’s eating more meat,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s a shift from the prior five years, when U.S.
companies were the biggest acquirers as $9.2 billion in
transactions were announced, the data show. In both periods,
American producers made up almost half the targets, in terms of
the dollar value of transactions.  Due Diligence  Foreign companies are probably examining potential deals
right now because the ability of overseas acquirers to execute
transactions has matured, said Mark Walsh, the Boston-based lead
of Deloitte Consulting LLP’s U.S. mergers, acquisitions and
restructuring practice.  “Commodities are certainly in play,” Walsh said in a
phone interview. “This is an area of focus over the next 12 to
24 months. Depending on how the next couple transactions play
out, you may see an uptick or this kind of dynamic go away for a
while.”  The cross-border deals highlight the demand for U.S. meat
supplies and expertise in food safety and technology as well as
a shift in purchasing power, Smithfield Chief Executive Officer
C. Larry Pope said. China’s  per capita pork  consumption has
risen 22 percent in the past decade as  chicken  consumption
increased 35 percent.  Deep Pockets  “It speaks to where some of the economic and financial
wherewithal in the world has moved,” Pope said in a phone
interview. “We are in a global environment. Buyers are not just
in the U.S. There’s an awful lot of money in  Asia  and an awful
lot of money in Brazil.”  Shuanghui’s deal for Smithfield is being reviewed by the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. and the  Department
of Justice . Foreign companies are watching how much of the U.S.
meat industry regulators are willing to put in foreign hands,
Gimme Credit’s Bryan said.  Thailand’s  Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF)  and Brazil’s  JBS SA (JBSS3)  -
- both of which considered buying Smithfield, people familiar
with the matter told  Bloomberg News  last month -- may seek to
buy other U.S. meat processors, Bryan said. COFCO Corp., the
Chinese agricultural trader and processor that sold its 7-million-share Smithfield stake back to the company in November,
may also seek an American target, she said.  Cost Cutting  Officials at CP Foods declined to comment. Yin Jianhao, a
spokesman at Beijing-based COFCO, couldn’t be reached on his
mobile phone for comment on the company’s acquisition outlook.  The CEO of JBS said during an interview this week that,
following the $2.7 billion acquisition of processing plants and
a tannery unit from  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) , the company will seek
to cut costs for the moment.  “We’re not in the market to buy anything else,” the CEO,
Wesley Batista, said at JBS’s headquarters in  Sao Paulo .  JBS expressed interest in Sara Lee Corp., which was
Hillshire’s name before spinning off its tea and coffee unit
last year, according to people with knowledge of the
negotiations at the time who asked not to be named because the
discussions were private.  BRF SA (BRFS3) , Latin America’s largest food manufacturer by market
value, plans to expand internationally, Chairman Abilio Diniz
said in April. Hormel may meet the Sao Paulo-based company’s
needs, said Frederico de Castro, an analyst at Perfin
Investimentos, which manages 2.8 billion reais ($1.3 billion) of
stock, including BRF shares.  Hormel, BRF  “Hormel is a good company, very well managed,” the
analyst said of the $10.5 billion company. “They have a strong
brand, good margins, good distribution. They would totally make
sense for BRF.”  Hillshire, which is valued at $4.1 billion, may also appeal
to BRF, though the odds of U.S.-based companies such as Tyson or
Hormel acquiring it are greater, said Alexia Howard, a New York-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Representatives for BRF didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Hillshire’s  free cash flow yield , a measure of how much
cash from operations a business generates relative to its share
price, is 8.7 percent -- better than all but one peer, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median among U.S. food
manufacturers valued at more than $500 million is 4 percent, the
data show.  One Stop  As income levels and food demand climb in  emerging markets ,
Tyson would offer a “one-stop shop for an international
buyer,” according to Brett Hundley, a Richmond, Virginia-based
analyst at BB&T Corp. The largest U.S. chicken and beef producer
would be an attractive target both operationally and in terms of
its valuation, he said.  The $9.1 billion company is the cheapest in the U.S. food
manufacturing industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Even with Tyson shares up  33 percent  this year, the company’s
enterprise value is 6.5 times its  profit  in the last 12 months,
the lowest multiple among U.S. food manufacturers valued at more
than $500 million, the data show.  Still, regulatory filings show that the Tyson family
 controls  more than 70 percent of the stock’s voting power,
giving them the ability to block deals, Hundley said.  “What it all boils down to is, is the family willing to
sell?” Hundley said. “I’m sure they have a price in their mind
where they would be willing to sell. We just don’t know what it
is.”  Sanderson Family  Gary Mickelson, a spokesman for Springdale, Arkansas-based
Tyson, declined to comment on the acquisition prospects for his
company or other U.S. meat companies.  Sanderson may be a more willing seller because there is no
obvious family successor to CEO Joe Sanderson Jr., whose father
was one of the company’s co-founders, Hundley said. Sanderson
trades at about 13 times this year’s projected earnings, cheaper
than 92 percent of peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Today, Hillshire shares added 0.2 percent to $33.20,
breaking a four-day losing streak. Sanderson slumped 1.6 percent
to $68.88, while Hormel rose 0.8 percent to $40.13 for the
 third-best performance  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer
Staples Index. Tyson fell 0.6 percent to $25.56.  U.S. companies are “logical” targets because they are
efficient livestock producers and over the last 30 years have
worked on improving yields without sacrificing quality, said Joe Grendys, CEO of closely held Koch Foods Inc. He said his company
plans to remain independent and hasn’t been approached by
acquirers.  The U.S. is “light years ahead of the rest of the world in
terms of production,” Grendys said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  