-- Time Warner Cable, Charter Shares Jump on Merger Speculation
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   M a d e l i n e   M c M a h o n
-- 2013-06-14T21:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/time-warner-cable-charter-shares-jump-amid-merger-speculation.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  shares rose
the most in four years on a report that Chief Executive Officer
Glenn Britt had spoken with  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  CEO Greg Maffei
about being acquired by  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR)   Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable operator,
climbed 8.1 percent to $103.93 at the close in New York, the
biggest one-day gain since April 2009. Charter, which ranks No.
4 in the industry, gained 5.2 percent to $116.61. Cablevision,
the fifth-largest company, rose 3.6 percent to $14.68.  The stocks climbed after CNBC reported Time Warner Cable
discussed merging with Charter, which is partially owned by
Liberty Media. Though CNBC said Time Warner Cable isn’t likely
to pursue the deal, the news signaled to investors that
consolidation may be in the works. The idea of using mergers to
help combat escalating programming costs was a topic of
conversation at an industry conference this week, said Amy Yong,
an analyst at Macquarie in New York.  “Coming out of the cable show, the theme was industry
consolidation,” Yong, who has the equivalent of a buy rating on
Time Warner Cable, said in an interview. The prospect of mergers
and acquisitions is “important for this sector,” she said.  Liberty Media, controlled by billionaire  John Malone ,
announced it was buying a 27 percent stake in Charter in March.
Malone said earlier this month he wanted Charter to be “a
horizontal acquisition machine” and was interested in both
smaller and larger U.S. cable deals.  Malone has a history of rolling up cable companies. He
built Tele-Communications Inc. into one of the largest pay-TV
companies in the 1970s and 1980s, before selling it in 1999.  Time Warner Cable, based in New York, isn’t interested in
being acquired by Charter, a smaller company, CNBC said.
Charter, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , with about 4 million
video customers and a market valuation of $11.8 billion. Time
Warner Cable has about 12 million TV subscribers and a market
capitalization of $30.2 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Madeline McMahon in New York at 
 mmcmahon26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  