-- IMF Sees Fed QE Through 2013, Warns of Exit Plan Challenges
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-06-14T21:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/imf-sees-fed-qe-through-end-of-2013-warns-of-exit-challenges.html
The International Monetary Fund sees
the Federal Reserve maintaining large monthly bond purchases
until at least the end of this year and urged the central bank
to carefully manage its exit plan to avoid disrupting financial
markets.  Unwinding a policy of record-low interest rates and $85
billion in monthly  bond-buying  known as quantitative easing will
be challenging even though the Fed has “a range of tools” to
withdraw the stimulus, the IMF staff wrote in its annual
assessment of the U.S. economy.  “Effective communication on the exit strategy and a
careful calibration of its timing will be critical for reducing
the risk of abrupt and sustained moves in long-term interest
rates and excessive interest-rate volatility as the exit
nears,” according to the concluding statement released today.  Such moves “could have adverse global implications,
including a reversal of capital flows to  emerging markets  and
higher international financial market volatility,” the staff
said in the report.  In the release, the Washington-based IMF left its U.S.
growth forecast for this year unchanged at 1.9 percent, which
assumes that budget cuts may trim as much as 1.75 percentage
points off the expansion. It also lowered its prediction for
2014 to 2.7 percent, from 3 percent growth predicted in April.  Stocks Slide  Concern is already showing, with almost $3 trillion that
has been erased from the value of global equities since Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said May 22 the central bank could
scale back stimulus efforts should the job market outlook show
“sustainable improvement.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which has risen in each of
the past seven months, declined 0.6 percent to 1,626.73. The
yield on 10-year Treasuries slid to 2.13 percent from 2.15
percent late yesterday.  “We are seeing clearly that communication will be key in
order to monitor expectations and in order to reduce uncertainty
and this will certainly be seen in the weeks and months to
come,” IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde said during a
press conference in  Washington  today.  Lagarde said the fund’s projections assume a “very
slight” decline in the amount of monthly bond purchases in
2014, and no tightening. The lower growth forecasts reflect
that, in contrast to April, the fund assumes that automatic
budget cuts that started to come into effect this year won’t be
phased out.  Sequestration  The IMF said the deficit reduction this year linked to
automatic spending cuts had been “excessively rapid and ill-designed” and should be replaced by a mix of new revenue and
savings on entitlements spending.  Bernanke will have an opportunity to retune the Fed’s
message during a press conference on June 19 after the Federal
Open Market Committee concludes a two-day meeting and releases a
policy statement.  Investors’ overreaction to the Fed’s initial steps to
normalize its monetary policy is also a risk to the country’s
growth outlook, according to the fund’s report, which said other
threats include a stronger impact of fiscal tightening and a
reigniting of Europe’s debt crisis.  IMF economists meet with government and central bank
officials to prepare their estimates. The full report will be
discussed by the IMF board next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  