-- India’s Nifty Stock-Index Futures Gain as Global Equities Rally
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-06-14T02:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/india-s-nifty-stock-index-futures-gain-as-global-equities-rally.html
Indian (SENSEX)   stock futures  gained, heading
for the first rise in four days, before the release of a monthly
inflation report today and as global stocks rallied.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for June delivery climbed 0.8
percent to 5,740 at 10:04 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index dropped 1.1 percent to 5,699.10 yesterday, the
lowest since April 17. The S&P BSE Sensex fell 1.1 percent,
heading for the biggest weekly decline in three months. The Bank
of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares rose
0.4 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rallied as much as 1.5 percent
today, after the regional gauge yesterday erased this year’s
gains, as U.S. retail and jobless data beat forecasts and
investors speculate the  Federal Reserve  will maintain record low
interest rates. India’s benchmark wholesale price inflation
probably eased to a 42-month low of 4.87% in May, according to
the median estimate of 34 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “Given the amount of control foreign investors have over
our markets, in the short run it’s all going to be about global
newsflow,” Kishor Ostwal, managing director of CNI Research
(India) Ltd., said by phone yesterday. “Inflation data needs to
be watched closely. We may see some value-buying.”  Weakening Rupee  Foreigners sold a net $319 million of local shares on June
11 and 12, the biggest selloff since the two days through Nov.
25, 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That pared this
year’s net purchases to $15 billion, still a record for the
period, the data show.  The Sensex has slumped 4.7 percent this month on concern a
weakening rupee will stoke consumer prices, limiting the  Reserve
Bank  of India’s scope to extend interest-rate cuts at its policy
review on June 17. The currency slumped to an all-time low
earlier this week, weighed down by a record current-account gap
and the slowest economic growth in a decade.  Twelve of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey predict the
central bank will keep the benchmark repurchase rate unchanged
at 7.25 percent. Ten forecast a 25 basis-point cut. The rupee
has been Asia’s worst-performing currency this quarter, dropping
6.4 percent and touching a record low of 58.9850 per dollar on
June 11.  Reform Push  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram yesterday signaled
the government will implement more economic reforms to revive
growth and said steps are being taken to stabilize the currency.
The government is seeking to build on the boost to investor
sentiment after  Fitch Ratings  upgraded the nation’s outlook to
stable from negative on June 12.  Shares of  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  may be active after its Jaguar
Land Rover unit reported sales climbed 12 percent from the
previous year in May.  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  may be active after the company
named former Air New Zealand chief executive officer Gary Kenneth Toomey as its new CEO, succeeding Nikos Kardassis, who
resigned less than two months after the carrier agreed to sell a
stake to Etihad Airways PJSC.  The Sensex has lost 3.1 percent this year and is trading at
12.9 times projected 12-month earnings, the cheapest since April
24, compared with the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 9.8 times.
The Indian measure’s 100-day  volatility  climbed to 14.4
yesterday, the highest level since Sept. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  