-- India Defers Decision on Jet Airways Stake Sale to Etihad
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-06-14T11:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/india-defers-decision-on-jet-airways-stake-sale-to-etihad.html
India  deferred a decision on  Jet
Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) ’s agreement to sell a stake to Etihad
Airways PJSC, as authorities sought more details about the local
carrier’s ownership.  “We need more details of effective control and
ownership,” Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said in
New Delhi today after the nation’s  Foreign Investment Promotion
Board  discussed the investment. Civil Aviation Minister Ajit Singh said India’s stock market regulator raised some concerns
over the deal and asked the carriers to “rectify” some parts
of their agreement. He didn’t elaborate.  Jet is seeking to sell a 24 percent stake to Abu Dhabi-based Etihad to raise funds for fleet expansion and to pare  debt 
after six years of losses caused by a price war and high fuel
costs. The Mumbai-based airline also named a new chief executive
officer yesterday as it prepares to face rising competition from
 AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest discount carrier, that plans
to enter the Indian market later this year.  Jet spokeswoman Ragini Chopra declined to comment on the
government’s move to defer the decision.  Shares of Jet  jumped 9.2 percent, the most since April 25,
to 470.40 rupees at the close in Mumbai trading before the
announcement. The stock has declined 16 percent this year, while
the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex has lost 1.3 percent.  Boeing Planes  The carrier, which agreed in April to sell the stake for
20.6 billion rupees ($358 million), is counting on the Etihad
funds to accelerate repayment of working capital debt, K.G. Vishwanath, vice president of commercial strategy, told analysts
in a conference call on May 27. The company is considering an
order for Boeing Co. 737 planes, he said.  Jet hired Gary Kenneth Toomey, a former CEO of Air New
Zealand Ltd., to succeed Nikos Kardassis who resigned June 5.
Chief Operating Officer Hameed Ali will continue as acting chief
executive till the Australian national’s appointment is approved
by regulators, the company said yesterday.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government in September
allowed foreign carriers to buy as much as 49 percent of local
operators. That prompted AirAsia to set up its India venture
through a partnership with  Tata Group .  State-owned Etihad has invested in smaller operators to
help feed long-haul flights and turn its home emirate into a hub
for intercontinental travel. It owns stakes in  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) ,
Air Seychelles Ltd.,  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  and Aer
Lingus Group Plc.  Excess Capacity  Jet is in talks with Etihad to lease out some excess
aircraft capacity including Airbus SAS A330 planes, Vishwanath
said. The airline also separately plans to sell a stake in its
frequent flier program to Etihad, with the move tied to the main
deal going through.  The carrier also plans to focus on increasing services to
 Abu Dhabi  by adding more direct flights to the emirate from
smaller Indian cities, Raj Sivakumar, its senior vice president,
said last month. Jet will also look at expanding services to
 Europe  with new direct flights.  Jet last month posted a wider-than-estimated fourth-quarter
loss of 4.96 billion rupees because of higher aircraft lease
costs and a one-time expense.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  