-- India Inflation at 43-Month Low; Rupee Curbs Rate-Cut Scope
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-06-14T07:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/india-inflation-slows-to-43-month-low-rupee-dims-rate-cut-scope.html
Indian inflation slowed to a 43-month low in May, a moderation that may fail to spur another
interest-rate cut by the central bank as a plunge in the rupee
threatens to fan price pressures.  The  wholesale-price index  rose 4.7 percent from a year
earlier, after climbing 4.89 percent in April, the Commerce
Ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. The median of
35 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 4.88 percent.  The rupee’s drop to a record low this week may stoke import
costs in a nation that buys about 80 percent of its crude oil
from overseas.  India ’s finance minister said yesterday steps are
being taken to steady the currency, whose decline has led
forecasters from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to DBS Bank Ltd. to
predict the central bank will refrain from a fourth-straight
rate cut at the review due June 17.  “While the downtrend in inflation is providing comfort for
easing, the rupee’s decline is playing spoilsport and will limit
the central bank from cutting rates,” said Tirthankar Patnaik,
a Mumbai-based strategist at Religare Capital Markets Ltd.  The rupee, which touched an all-time low of 58.9850 per
dollar on June 11, appreciated 0.6 percent to 57.625 as of 1:04
p.m. in Mumbai. The S&P BSE Sensex index advanced 1.4 percent.
The yield on the 8.15 percent bond maturing June 2022 slid to
7.51 percent from 7.55 percent yesterday.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will keep
the  repurchase rate  at 7.25 percent, 14 of 23 analysts said in a
Bloomberg News survey. The rest predict a reduction to 7 percent.  Borrowing Costs  Subbarao lowered borrowing costs in January, March and May
by 25 basis points at each meeting to boost investment in an
economy that expanded a decade-low 5 percent last fiscal year.  While inflation has “come off the peak,” consumer-price
growth still remains “quite high,” Subbarao said June 7. The
success of monsoon rains will be an important factor in
determining monetary policy in the next three months, he said.  A report earlier this week showed  consumer prices  advanced
9.31 percent in May from a year earlier, the second-fastest pace
in the Group of 20 major economies.  The central bank has said its threshold level for wholesale
inflation may be about 5 percent. Every 10 percent decline in
the rupee adds as much as 80 basis points to wholesale-price
inflation, according to estimates by Nomura Holdings Inc. The
currency is down about 6 percent this quarter.  Restoring Confidence  The onus is on the government to restore confidence by
extending a nine-month policy push that seeks to revive a
struggling economy, said Rupa Rege Nitsure, an economist at  Bank
of Baroda  in Mumbai.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram signaled yesterday
more caps on foreign-direct investment may be eased this month.  He’s striving to woo funds to finance a record current-account deficit, which has weighed on the rupee. The shortfall
was $32.6 billion in the last quarter of 2012, or 6.7 percent of
gross domestic product.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  began changes in September to
lure investment and avert a credit-rating downgrade. Steps have
included paring the  budget deficit , liberalization in the retail
and aviation industries to attract overseas capital and a drive
to speed up infrastructure projects.  Fitch Ratings  revised India’s credit-outlook to stable from
negative on June 12, citing the government’s efforts. That
provided some succor for Singh, whose coalition has been hurt by
graft scandals and depressed economic expansion.  Domestic sales in India’s passenger-car industry, which
includes manufacturers such as Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., fell
12.3 percent in May from a year earlier, in a sign consumer
spending is still faltering.  Food prices climbed 8.25 percent in May from a year earlier,
today’s report showed. Fuel and power rose 7.32 percent. March
inflation was revised to 5.65 percent from 5.96 percent.  Non-food manufactured goods prices, a measure of  core
inflation , advanced 2.35 percent after a 2.74 percent gain in
April, according to Bloomberg calculations based on the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  