-- Industrial Output in U.S. Unchanged as Utility Use Drops
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-06-14T15:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/industrial-production-in-u-s-unchanged-as-utility-output-drops.html
Manufacturers in the U.S. boosted
production in May for the first time in three months, signaling
the worst of the industrial slump is over.  Factory output  climbed 0.1 percent after dropping 0.4
percent in April and 0.3 percent in March, according to Federal
Reserve data issued today in  Washington . Another report showed
 consumer sentiment  declined this month from a six-year high.  American households are replacing aging automobiles as more
jobs and rising home and stock prices underpin confidence,
benefiting manufacturers such as  General Motors Co. (GM)  That means
the projected slowing in economic growth this quarter caused by
the across-the-board federal spending cuts and cooling global
demand will probably give way to a pickup later this year.  “Manufacturing has had a little bit of a rough ride
lately, but there is nothing to suggest that will continue,”
said  Drew Matus , deputy U.S. chief economist at UBS Securities
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , who correctly projected the gain
in factory output. “We may have to build up inventories a
little, so that will be a net positive. Continued consumer
demand will trump what is happening in the rest of the world.”  The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan  preliminary
index of consumer sentiment declined to 82.7 in June from 84.5
the prior month that was the highest since July 2007, a report
today showed. The  median forecast  in a Bloomberg survey called
for no change from May.  “The stock market peaked in late May, so you may be seeing
some of that being reflected in the number,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New
York , who projected a drop in the gauge to 82.5. “In general,
the consumer is in a relatively good position.”  Shares Fall  Stocks dropped, after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
yesterday posted its second-biggest gain this year, as investors
weighed the economic data against speculation the Fed will
curtail stimulus efforts. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.5 percent to
1,628.4 at 11:50 a.m. in New York.  Elsewhere today,  house prices  in England and  Wales 
increased to a record in May as government measures to ease
credit strains improved the availability of mortgages, data from
Acadametrics and LSL Property Services Plc showed in  London .  The Fed’s production report also showed output for all
industries, including mines and utilities, was unchanged in May
as a drop in energy use offset the gain in manufacturing. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a 0.2 percent
advance.  Survey Results  Estimates for total industrial production of the 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged from a drop of 0.4
percent to an increase of 0.7 percent. The prior month was
revised to show a 0.4 percent decrease from a previously
reported 0.5 percent drop. Manufacturing accounts for about 12
percent of the economy.  The gain in factory production was paced by an increase in
autos.  Motor vehicles and parts  output climbed 0.7 percent after
a 0.4 percent decrease a month earlier. Manufacturing excluding
cars and parts rose 0.1 percent after a decrease of 0.4 percent.  A report yesterday from the Commerce Department showed
purchases at  car dealerships  climbed 1.8 percent in May, more
than twice the 0.7 percent gain a month earlier. Cars and light
trucks sold at a 15.2 million annualized  rate  in May, the sixth
month out of the last seven to exceed the 15 million mark.  Detroit-based General Motors is reinvesting about $8
billion a year to boost its global competitiveness, said Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Dan Ammann.  Making Progress  “We continue to keep a close eye on the economic
situation,” Ammann said at a June 12 conference. “There’s
clearly been progress. But I don’t think it’s as strong as some
of the asset prices and so on would cause you to believe.”  China’s slowdown and the European recession have kept
pressure on global manufacturers including  DuPont Co. (DD)  and Dow
Chemical Co.  “Customers are cautious and the signals continue to be
mixed,” said Howard Ungerleider, an executive vice president at
Dow, based in Midland, Michigan.  “The good news is right here in the  United States , where
we do see improvements, although growth still remains at lower
levels than we would like,” Ungerleider said at a June 12
conference. “Residential construction is up, but public budget
tightening is limiting growth in the commercial sector. Our
businesses last year really called for 2013 to be like 2012 and
this is proving to be more right than wrong.”  The global growth slowdown has also been restraining
inflation. Wholesale prices in the U.S. climbed in May for the
first time in three months, reflecting an increase in fuel and
food prices that failed to filter through to other goods,
figures from the Labor Department also showed today.  Producer Prices  The producer-price index rose 0.5 percent after falling 0.7
percent in April, which was the biggest drop in more than three
years. Core wholesale inflation, which excludes often-volatile
food and energy prices, increased 0.1 percent.  “There’s just a lack of any inflationary pressures across
the economy,” said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. in Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania , who
correctly forecast the gain in producer prices. “From the Fed’s
point of view, I think that the fact that it’s a bit higher than
expected doesn’t in any way change the view that inflation is
still quite low, quite tame.”  Fed officials meeting June 18-19 in Washington will weigh
how much changes in inflation and the labor market will
influence the pace of their $85 billion in monthly asset
purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  