-- Lira Strengthens to Month High as Erdogan Meets Protesters
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-06-14T11:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/lira-strengthens-to-month-high-as-erdogan-meets-protesters.html
The lira appreciated to its
strongest level this month after Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  met with protesters and the government said Istanbul’s
Gezi Park won’t be redeveloped until the public is consulted.  The currency gained for the fourth day, strengthening 0.2
percent to 1.8569 per dollar at 12:34 p.m. in Istanbul, its
highest since May 28. The official Anatolia News Agency said
Erdogan met representatives of protesters who oppose the re-development of the public park and who have descended on
Istanbul’s Taksim Square for the past two weeks.  “The relative easing of the tensions has calmed down the
markets,” Onur Bayol, a fixed income and currency trader at
 Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Yields on two-year benchmark notes slumped 59 basis points,
or 0.59 of a percentage point, to 6.15 percent, dropping for the
third day. Today’s meeting was Erdogan’s first with the group
since the protests escalated on May 31 and rapidly spread to
other cities. After the talks, Cabinet spokesman Huseyin Celik
said the government will “implement the decision that
Istanbulites take,” referring to a pledge for public
consultation, and won’t act before a court rules on the plan.  Liquidity Tightening  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index jumped
2.7 percent to 78,541.53, the highest intraday level in a week.  Turkey’s central bank lent 4 billion liras at its one-week
repo auction and another 500 million liras in a one-month repo
sale today. Three days ago, it tightened liquidity by refraining
from lending to banks to support the lira, the first such move
in more than a year. On the same day, the bank pumped foreign
exchange into the market for the first time in 2013 by selling
$250 million after the lira sank to its weakest since December
2011.  “The gains are general in  emerging markets , it’s not just
the lira,”  Gaelle Blanchard , a senior emerging markets
strategist at  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in  London , said in e-mailed
comments.  European stocks advanced for the first time in five days
and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rallied 1.2 percent before a
report forecast to show U.S. industrial production expanded. The
Indian rupee strengthened 0.8 percent against the dollar and the
Russian ruble appreciated 0.5 percent.  ‘Positive Mood’  Turkey’s two-year yield has climbed 154 basis points from a
record 4.79 percent on May 17 as speculation grew that the U.S.
Federal Reserve will taper its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases. Even after the increase, the yield has fallen 301
basis points in the past 12 months.  “The Fed is unlikely to favor brutal moves and high
volatility and we will probably hear comments trying to calm
down the market a bit,” Blanchard said.  Is Investment Securities,  Turkey ’s biggest brokerage,
recommended buying 10-year lira bonds and Turkey’s 2041 dollar
bonds, citing the calmer political situation.  “We expect positive mood to continue,” Ugur Kucuk, a
fixed income strategist at Is Investment wrote in an e-mailed
note. “Therefore, current interest rate levels provide
attractive entry points for long positions in Turkish debt
instruments.”  Yields on 10-year  lira bonds  dropped 35 basis points to
7.10 today in their biggest decrease since at least March 2010
on a closing basis, paring their advance this month to 26 basis
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  