-- Iran Ex-Vice President Backs Rohani, Hopes For First-Round Win
-- B y   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-06-14T14:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/iran-ex-vice-president-backs-rohani-hopes-for-first-round-win.html
Former Iranian vice-president
Masoumeh Ebtekar said she doesn’t expect today’s presidential
election to go to a second round and hopes her candidate, Hassan Rohani, will emerge as the winner.  “I don’t think there will be a second run. I hope not,”
said Ebtekar, who served in the late 90’s under president
Mohammad Khatami, as she was waited to cast her ballot at a
polling station in Tehran. “We see rising support” for Rohani.  Rohani’s campaign picked up earlier this week after he was
endorsed by former presidents Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and
Mohammad Khatami, whom Iranians refer to as “the father of
reforms,” and another candidate, Mohammad Reza Aref, dropped
out of the race to back him. Rohani says he will allow for more
social liberties and ease economic sanctions on his nation by
seeking a more constructive dialogue with the West.  In the last presidential election in 2009, activists
accused authorities of using ballot fraud to deny a reformist
candidate victory. Street protests lasted for days after the
announced re-election of president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad before
being put down by security forces with thousands arrested.  “I hope people’s vote will be maintained carefully,”
Ebtekar said. Officials “in charge of holding the election
should know that people came to the ballot boxes with their
heart and hope.”  Iranians started voting at 8 a.m. local time today, to
choose a replacement for Ahmadinejad who’s not eligible to run
for a third consecutive time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net 
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  