-- Israel Annual Inflation Rate Rises in May From Six-Year Low
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-06-14T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/israel-annual-inflation-rate-rises-in-may-from-six-year-low.html
Israel’s  inflation  rate rose in May
from a six-year low the previous month, as electricity prices
and cigarette taxes increased.  Annual inflation accelerated to 0.9 percent from 0.8
percent, the Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of Statistics
reported today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of 12
economists was 1.1 percent. Consumer prices increased 0.1
percent from the previous month.  “Inflation this month and next is due to higher taxes and
an increase in costs,”  Rafael Gozlan , chief economist at I.B.I-Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd., said prior to the
announcement. “When this recedes, we will see inflation drop
again.”  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s government is raising
taxes to reduce the  budget deficit , which has ballooned as the
economy slows and revenue falls short of expectations. The Bank
of Israel, led by Governor  Stanley Fischer , cut the benchmark
 interest rate  twice in May by a cumulative half-point, bringing
the benchmark to 1.25 percent, in an effort to help boost
growth.  Economic  growth  is forecast to slow to 2.8 percent this
year, from 3.2 percent in 2012, excluding first-time natural-gas
revenue forecast to add another percentage point, according to
the central bank.  ‘Very Weak’  “Demand is very weak, and will apparently be even more
weak in the coming months,” said Gozlan, citing declining
 consumer confidence  due to increasing direct and indirect taxes.
“Wages aren’t going up and the labor market isn’t especially
strong.”  Still, a June 1 increase in value-added-tax to 18 percent
from 17 percent probably pushed prices further up this month, he
said.  The 6 percent rise in electricity prices, due to an
increase in input costs, and 15 percent jump in cigarettes were
offset by declines in gasoline and bread, Bank Hapoalim Ltd.
said in a report before the announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  