-- ISS Recommends Removing CommonWealth Board, Corvex Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-06-14T20:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/iss-recommends-removing-commonwealth-board-corvex-says.html
Institutional Shareholder Services
recommended that investors in  CommonWealth REIT (CWH)  vote to remove
the entire board, according to Corvex Management LP and Related
Cos., which are leading an effort to replace the trustees.  The shareholder-advisory firm said removal is warranted
because of “dismal” investor returns, underperformance tied to
CommonWealth’s external management structure and certain
corporate governance provisions, Corvex and Related said in a
statement today.  Corvex, founded by activist investor Keith Meister, and
Related, a New York-based property developer, are soliciting
votes to remove the trustees, claiming that an overlap in board
membership and the ownership of an external management firm has
led to conflicts of interest and mismanagement at the real
estate investment trust. CommonWealth, based in Newton,
 Massachusetts , has said it is better off with its current
structure and its shares will rise as it focuses on its strategy
of owning downtown office buildings.  “A successful remove vote will create a clear path for
shareholders to nominate truly independent and accountable
trustees who are committed to the future success of CommonWealth
for the long-term benefit of all shareholders,” Meister and
Jeff Blau, chief executive officer of Related, said in the
statement.  Solicitation Invalid  CommonWealth says the solicitation to remove the board
isn’t valid because the  shareholders  don’t meet the
qualifications under the REIT’s bylaws. The dispute with Corvex
and Related, its second-biggest investors, is in arbitration.  The ISS recommendation was premature because “no valid
record date has been set and the Corvex/Related activities do
not constitute a valid consent solicitation,” CommonWealth said
in a statement. “The company is also disappointed that ISS
issued this report before it is appropriate to do so because it
will likely cause confusion among CommonWealth shareholders.”  The REIT reiterated that stockholders should take no action
on the solicitation.  Marcato Capital Management LLC, owner of about 3.1 percent
of CommonWealth’s shares, said today that it supports the Corvex
group’s efforts.  “Changing the external management structure and removing
the conflicted board that enables the company’s flawed corporate
governance practices are critical to allow investors to realize
the full value of their investment,” San Francisco-based
Marcato said in a letter to the REIT’s independent trustees.  External Management  CommonWealth’s president, Adam Portnoy, and his father,
Barry, a company founder, sit on its five-member  board  and are
owners of the external management firm, Reit Management &
Research LLC.  The board has “demonstrated much greater creativity in
entrenching itself, and hardening the bunker in anticipation of
even a legitimate shareholder challenge,” ISS said in the
report, dated yesterday. “For shareholders considering their
options in this consent solicitation, there is no percentage in
doubling down on that bet. The far more promising alternative
appears to be, instead, to consent to the dissident proposal to
remove all incumbent directors, and retake control of their
company.”  CommonWealth’s credit rating on June 10 was lowered to junk
by Standard & Poor’s, which cited concerns about the ability of
management “to improve the competitive positioning of its
office portfolio given weak office market conditions.” The REIT
was downgraded to BB+ from BBB-.  Shares of CommonWealth rose 3.3 percent to $21.34 at the
close of  New York  trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  