-- Littoral Ship’s Troubled Asia Tour Cited by Lawmakers
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-14T20:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/littoral-ship-s-troubled-asia-tour-cited-by-lawmakers.html
The House panel that funds  defense
spending  said it’s “disturbed by the number of problems”
marring the deployment to Asia of the Navy’s first Littoral
Combat Ship.  The troubles “appear to be beyond the crew’s capability to
handle, especially given that the LCS should have been in an
extremely high state of readiness,” the House Appropriations
defense subcommittee said in a report approved this week by the
full committee as part of its defense bill for fiscal 2014.  The problems on the USS Freedom, built by  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) , include seawater contamination and rust particles in
lubrication components used by the main propulsion system. The
ship was forced to return to port in  Singapore  for repairs after
eight hours of sailing on May 21, before a visit to the ship by
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel on June 2.  The troubled Littoral Combat Ship is intended to be a
small, speedy, adaptable ship for patrolling shallow waters
close to shore in areas such as the Persian Gulf. The $34
billion program to build 52 ships has faced an expanding list of
questions about its manning, mission, firepower, defenses and
survivability even as projected construction costs have soared.  The Freedom arrived  in Singapore April 18  for a deployment
of as long as 10 months to test approaches to manning and
maintaining the ships and to work with allied navies.  “You’re all making history out here,” Hagel told the
ship’s crew via intercom from the pilot house. “A new ship, new
capacity, new opportunities.”  The vessel  departed  June 11 for a Malaysia training
exercise.  ‘Lube-Oil Flushes’  Repairs, performed in part by contractors, included “hot
lube-oil flushes” of tubing, according to the Navy.  “Navy ships are normally deployed in top material
condition,” the House committee said in its report. The
incidents “imply either that the LCS is experiencing more than
its share of maintenance problems, thus overwhelming the crew,
or that the crew is unable to handle common problems and has
come to rely” on on-board contractors.  While the panel approved the Navy’s request to build four
more Littoral Combat Ships in fiscal 2014, it said it was
“alarmed by the frequency and magnitude of temporary civilian
contractors” on Freedom as it crossed the Pacific to Singapore
-- to “trouble-shoot problems” with its propulsion,
lubricating-oil and air conditioning systems.  Two Versions  The Navy is buying two versions of the ship. One, with a
steel hull, is being made in Marinette,  Wisconsin , by a group
led by Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed. A group led by
Henderson, Australia-based  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  is building an aluminum
trimaran in Mobile,  Alabama .  “Lockheed Martin is leveraging industry’s investment in
the Marinette Marine Corp. shipyard, including new processes and
infrastructure, to continue to drive cost out of ship
construction,” company spokeswoman Dana Casey said in an e-mailed statement. “We’ve also incorporated sustainment
technologies in the ships to help reduce the Navy’s maintenance
and long-term sustainment costs.”  The Freedom is the first of as many as four Littoral Combat
Ships that will rotate through Singapore as the U.S. seeks to
increase its presence and deepen alliances in the Asia-Pacific
region.  ‘Experimental Ship’  Navy Secretary Ray Mabus told reporters yesterday that
troubles like those experienced by the Freedom, which the
service has disclosed as they occur, are to be expected on the
first ship in a class. The Navy took delivery of Freedom in
September 2008.  “Freedom is an experimental ship” and such vessels “are
built to see how the technology works, to see how the seaframe
works,” Mabus said.  “If we wanted to play it safe we wouldn’t send it,” Mabus
said. “First-of-a-class ships are going to have issues, and the
fact that it’s the first ship of its class, the fact that we put
sailors on there, the fact that it is now in Singapore -- those
are pretty positive signs.”  In an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  for
“Capitol Gains” airing June 16, Mabus said  “taxpayers ought
to be proud of this program” because the construction costs for
the final ships in the current contract are projected to drop to
$350 million per vessel from $429 million.  That’s still far more than the original estimate of $220
million a ship, which Mabus has called an unrealistic projection
from a program that was a “mess” initially.  ‘Very Fast’  “These ships are very fast, very shallow-draft and modular
so that when technology changes, when we get new technology, we
don’t have to change the whole ship,” Mabus said.  The LCS is designed to use interchangeable modules for
different missions, such as clearing mines, hunting submarines
and waging surface warfare.  While Mabus praised the Littoral Combat Ship, some senior
officers view it as expendable beyond the 24 already under
contract, including Vice Admiral Tom Copeman, the chief of naval
surface forces.  The Navy should “reduce the buy of large surface
combatants and end LCS beyond the current contract in favor of a
medium-sized” vessel with a “high-end combat capability,”
Copeman wrote in November in a confidential memo obtained by
Bloomberg News.  More Scrutiny  The vessel faces more scrutiny in coming months.
Representative Randy Forbes, the Virginia Republican who heads
the House Armed Services Committee’s seapower panel, said he
will hold a hearing on the findings of a Government
Accountability Office report on the program.  The draft GAO report disclosed in May by Bloomberg News
said said Congress “should consider restricting future
funding” until the Navy completes “ongoing technical and
design studies” and “determines the impact of making any
changes resulting from these studies on the cost and designs of
future LCS seaframes.”  The GAO’s draft report “is very concerning,” because “of
the intensity” of its content, Forbes told reporters June 4.
“It is something we will be monitoring very, very carefully.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  