-- Japan to Resume Inflation Bond Sales in October With Guarantee
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-06-14T11:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/japan-to-resume-inflation-bond-sales-in-october-with-guarantees.html
Japan ’s government plans to sell
inflation-linked bonds in October, resuming issuance after a
five-year hiatus and signaling Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
resolve to spur growth in consumer prices and the economy.  The government will have two offerings worth 300 billion
yen ($3.16 billion) each in 10-year securities known as linkers,
with the second taking place in January, according to Ministry
of Finance officials who spoke on condition of anonymity,
elaborating on plans to reissue the securities announced earlier
this year. The notes will have guaranteed minimum prices, a
backstop that previously issued linkers didn’t have, leaving
them vulnerable to price declines as deflation deepened.  Japan stopped offering the notes in August 2008 because of
falling demand amid deflation. Holders of the older inflation-linked bonds receive an adjustment to the principal value equal
to the change in the inflation rate.  The auction date in October will be announced in late July,
the officials told reporters in  Tokyo . There has been strong
interest for the securities from overseas investors and demand
from domestic investors is also increasing amid potential risk
of future inflation, the officials said.  Japan’s  breakeven rate , derived from the difference between
government bond yields and those on inflation-linked debt,
signaled inflation of 1.31 percent in the next five years, down
from as high as 1.84 percent on May 15.  Falling Yield  The yield on Japan’s benchmark 10-year note dropped four
basis points to 0.815 percent today in Tokyo. That brought its
weekly decline to 4 1/2 basis points, the most since the period
ended April 5.  Prime Minister Abe has pledged to defeat 15 years of
entrenched deflation and spur growth in the world’s third-largest economy using a combination of fiscal and monetary
stimulus.  A majority of the primary dealers at the meeting said
volatility in the  bond market  is high, while most institutional
investors said the fluctuations have lessened somewhat,
according to ministry officials.  The ministry exchanged opinions with primary dealers and
institutional investors on selling the 10-year and 20-year notes
with pre-determined coupons rather than adjusting them to market
rates if they carry the same due date, according to the
officials. The plan has emerged since the  Bank of Japan  doubled
monthly bond purchases in April, driving up market volatility to
the highest in more than four years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  