-- Jockey Ramon Dominguez Retires From Riding After Aqueduct Spill
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-06-14T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/jockey-ramon-dominguez-retires-from-riding-after-aqueduct-spill.html
Ramon Dominguez, North America’s top
jockey until he was thrown from his mount and kicked in the head
by another horse in a race at  New York ’s Aqueduct Racetrack, is
retiring because of the severity of his injuries.  Dominguez, 36, was unseated when Convocation appeared to
clip heels with Sovereign Default in the seventh race at
Aqueduct in Queens, New York, on Jan. 18. Convocation stumbled
and fell, throwing the jockey, who suffered a fractured skull
when he was kicked by a horse coming from behind.  “Riding thoroughbreds has always been my passion and my
calling,” Dominguez said in a statement distributed by the New
York Racing Association. “While I hoped and even expected to be
able to return to the saddle, as a result of my injuries and
upon the advice of my treating physicians, it has been
determined that I will no longer be able to pursue my career as
a jockey.”  Dominguez has won the Eclipse award as  North America ’s top
jockey for the past three years. He had 4,985 wins in 21,267
career starts as his mounts finishing in the money earned more
than $191.6 million in purses. Before the spill, he won 18 of 87
starts in 2013 and accumulated $803,905 in purses.  “He has epitomized class both on and off the racetrack,”
said NYRA Vice President P.J. Campo in a statement.
“Universally respected by his fellow riders and beloved by
fans, Ramon has built a towering and well-deserved reputation
that serves as a standard for all future jockeys.”  Alex Waldrop, president and chief executive officer of the
National Thoroughbred Racing Association, said Dominguez is
destined for thoroughbred racing’s Hall of Fame.  “Ramon Dominguez leaves an indelible mark on thoroughbred
racing and his profession,” Waldrop said in a statement. “He
epitomizes sportsmanship and professionalism as demonstrated by
the respect he earned from his fellow jockeys.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  