-- JPMorgan Private-Equity Unit to Become Independent
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-06-14T15:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/jpmorgan-private-equity-unit-to-become-independent-from-bank.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
 U.S. bank , plans to break off its private-equity unit as an
independent firm as the business raises a new fund backed by
outside investors.  One Equity Partners will still make direct investments on
behalf of JPMorgan for an “interim period” and continue to
manage the bank’s existing group of portfolio companies, the New
York-based company said today in a statement.  The business eventually will be split off as those
investments mature, according to a person with direct knowledge
of the plan. One Equity manages about $4.5 billion for the bank,
according to the statement.  “The One Equity team has produced strong returns over the
years,”  Matt Zames , JPMorgan’s chief operating officer, said in
the statement. “The time is right for them to seek new capital
to strengthen their global strategy, as they continue to manage
our existing portfolio to maximize value to the firm.”  Banks are expanding businesses overseeing client money as
they seek more stable forms of revenue, such as management fees.
JPMorgan’s private-equity results have been uneven in recent
quarters, swinging from a $50 million profit in the fourth
quarter to a $182 million loss in the first three months of this
year, according to the filings.  Volatile Earnings  Earnings within the unit will likely be volatile and
“influenced by capital-markets activity, market levels, the
performance of the broader economy and investment-specific
issues,” the company said in a May 8  filing  with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  One Equity typically invests from $50 million to $250
million per transaction, the firm said, concentrating in  North
America , Europe, Asia and  South America .  Federally backed banks face restrictions in how much they
can invest in private-equity and hedge funds under the so-called
Volcker rule, a provision of the 2010 Dodd-Frank law. The rule
limits investments to no more than 3 percent of the fund or 3
percent of the lender’s  Tier 1 capital . JPMorgan had about  $7.7
billion  in total private-equity holdings and $163.8 billion in
Tier 1 capital as of March 31, according to regulatory filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  