-- KKR, Toshiba Said to Proceed in Bidding for Panasonic Division
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a ,   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-06-14T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/kkr-toshiba-said-to-proceed-in-bidding-for-panasonic-division.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  were
picked to make second-round bids for a stake in  Panasonic (6752) 
Corp.’s health-care unit, said two people with the knowledge of
the matter.  Panasonic, Japan’s largest consumer electronics maker by
sales, received first-round offers that valued the division at
about 200 billion yen ($2.1 billion) and shortlisted bidders
earlier this week, the people said, asking not to be identified
as the process is private. A second round of bidding will take
place as early as in July, one person said.  Selling part of the  unit , which runs blood banks and
provides hospice care, will help Osaka-based Panasonic focus on
a 250 billion-yen plan to restructure its money-losing consumer
electronics business during the next two years. Fewer than 10
suitors made offers for the unit in the first round of bidding,
people familiar with the matter said in May.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  is advising Panasonic, according to
the people. Panasonic spokeswoman Megumi Kitagawa declined to
comment, as did spokesmen for KKR and Toshiba.  Panasonic’s electronics unit makes televisions,
semiconductors, mobile phones, circuit boards and optical
devices. Proceeds from a sale will help Panasonic meet a target
to generate 200 billion yen in free  cash flow  in the fiscal year
through March 2014.  U.S. private equity firm TPG Capital also participated in
the first round of bidding for the health-care unit, people with
knowledge of matter said last month.  Panasonic was receiving ’various offers’ for the health-care operation, Chief Financial Officer Hideaki Kawai said in an
interview May 15.  “Though we have a blood-sugar sensor business that has a
large volume and high margins, we don’t have many other such
core products,” Kawai said. “We’d like to find a partner that
can bring capital, technology and marketing power.”  KKR, the buyout firm run by billionaires  Henry Kravis  and
 George Roberts , in April said it hired Hirofumi Hirano, the
former chairman of Nikko Principal Investments Japan Ltd., to
head its operations in the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  