-- Napolitano Says Cornyn Border Proposal ‘Wrong Way to Go’
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-06-15T04:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/napolitano-says-cornyn-border-proposal-wrong-way-to-go-.html
The Senate should reject an
amendment offered by Republican Senator  John Cornyn  that would
block a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants until
the U.S. has “full operational control” of its border,
Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  said.  “Disconnecting the border from everything else that’s
immigration related is really the wrong way to go,” Napolitano
said of Cornyn’s measure during an interview on “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend on Bloomberg
Television. “Some parts of the border are very sparsely
populated, hardly ever trafficked, and we don’t need the same
amount of technology and manpower there.”  The Cornyn  amendment , which would complicate the pathway to
citizenship for the undocumented, threatens to unravel the
immigration bill being considered by the Senate. Napolitano, a
former Democratic governor of  Arizona , said the legislation
already has “very, very good” border security provisions.  Democrats insist the amendment from Cornyn, a Texan and the
Senate’s second-ranking Republican, would set such a high bar
for the triggers that would allow undocumented immigrants to
seek citizenship that it would effectively halt the process.  Some Republicans, including those who helped craft the
bipartisan bill under debate, say they won’t support a broad re-write of the nation’s immigration laws without tighter border
security. The Republicans are concerned that without improved
border control, the legislation would spur a wave of illegal
immigration similar to one that followed the last major policy
revision in 1986.  Negotiations Continue  Senators in both parties are planning to meet through the
weekend to craft possible changes to the bill’s current border
security provisions.  New York  Democrat  Charles Schumer  and
Arizona Republican  John McCain , two of the eight senators who
wrote the bill, said members of the bipartisan group were
discussing possible changes among themselves and with other
senators.  Cornyn’s proposal would require the Homeland Security
Department and the Government Accountability Office to certify
the “full operational control” and “full situational
awareness” of the border before undocumented immigrants could
gain permanent legal residency.  Under the amendment, government auditors would have to
certify surveillance on 100 percent of the 1,969-mile U.S.
border with  Mexico  and would need to verify that 90 percent or
more of the people attempting to enter the U.S. illegally in the
preceding year had been turned away.  Expanded Surveillance  Cornyn said his amendment would “strengthen” the existing
bill and improve its chances in the Republican-led House.  The amendment would make it “more likely, not less likely,
that we will actually pass a bill that will be taken up by the
 House of Representatives  and eventually be presented to the
president for his signature,” Cornyn said in Senate floor
remarks on June 10.  Democrats have argued the expanded surveillance and
enforcement required by 134-page amendment may create a lengthy
delay in the provisions allowing undocumented immigrants already
in the U.S. to apply for citizenship.  “I don’t think that’s the best way to do anything at the
border,” Napolitano said.  The debate in the Democratic-controlled Senate is occurring
as a bipartisan negotiating group in the House is working on its
own immigration proposal, with plans to present it later this
month. Separately, the House Judiciary Committee is considering
measures to address aspects of immigration law, including the
flow of agricultural and high-skilled workers.  Surveillance Programs  Napolitano, a top member of President  Barack Obama ’s
national security team, also defended the administration’s
oversight and use of classified surveillance programs, while
calling for more transparency in their use. That includes a
dialogue about whether to make public rulings by the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court, she said.  “On some of them that discussion needs to be had, yes,”
Napolitano said.  The Obama administration has confirmed the existence of a
program compelling  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  to provide the
National Security Agency with data on all its customers’
telephone use.  The administration also has confirmed the existence of a
separate program, called Prism, which monitors the Internet
activity of foreigners believed to be located outside the U.S.
and plotting terrorist attacks.  The disclosures, made by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden to the Guardian and  Washington Post (WPO)  newspapers, sparked
a criminal investigation by the  Justice Department , calls for
the surveillance to be reined in and a lawsuit by the  American
Civil Liberties Union  accusing the government of violating
citizens’ privacy. Snowden, 29, fled to  Hong Kong  May 20 before
revealing himself as the source of the leak.  Drone Use  Napolitano also addressed the Homeland Security
Department’s use of drones -- an issue that has raised privacy
concerns among lawmakers in both parties on  Capitol Hill .  Napolitano, 55, said the operation of unmanned aircraft and
other air coverage makes “our forces on the ground more
effective,” and that privacy concerns are regularly weighed and
addressed by an office embedded within the department.  “We are constantly making sure that we are abiding by
restrictions and doing what we need to do from a border security
perspective without invading American’s rights,” she said.  Napolitano called for an open dialogue on the type of
information collected by the federal government.  “There needs to be public understanding and a public
dialogue about what kind of information we use, why it’s
necessary to protect Americans and how we make sure that
Americans don’t live in an Orwellian situation, which I think is
everybody’s fear,” she said.  Contracting Concern  She also said Snowden’s disclosure “raised my eyebrow” on
the “unfettered access to certain types of information” given
to some federal contractors.  Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman  Dianne Feinstein , a
California Democrat, said this week that lawmakers will consider
legislation to limit government contractors’ access to sensitive
data in the wake of the NSA leak. About 1.4 million Americans
held top-secret clearances as of October.  “I’m not sure that we’ve really addressed that fairly and
squarely,” Napolitano said. “So obviously there will be lots
of lessons learned out of this latest episode.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  