-- Napolitano Calls for Defeat of Amendment on Border Security
-- B y
-- 2013-06-14T23:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/napolitano-calls-for-defeat-of-amendment-on-border-security.html
Secretary of Homeland Security
Janet Napolitano urged Senate rejection of an amendment to
delay pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants
until the U.S. has “full operational control” of its
border, saying in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
the proposal is “the wrong way to go” in a bill to revise
immigration law.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano, who joins us from New York.
Madam Secretary, thank you for joining us. And let me start
with the immigration bill as it currently stands before the
United States Senate. Could you quantify what difference it
would make, if any, on border security?  JANET NAPOLITANO: It’s a - it’s a great border
security bill. And I say that as a former attorney general
and governor of  Arizona , a key border state. But it
maintains the record amount of manpower we have at the
border, the so-called boots on the ground. It gives us a
lot more technology, which is a real force multiplier. The
ability to have aerial coverage across the entire Southwest
border. Also allows for a fund for fencing where we need to
either have new fencing or double fencing. So from a border
security standpoint, it’s a very, very good bill.  More importantly, you really have to look at what are
the drivers of illegal migration across our southwest
border. And one of the key ones is of course the desire for
work, people coming up to find a living in the United
States. It deals with that driver by requiring employers to
verify the legal presence of anyone applying for work so we
begin to shut off that driver of illegal migration.  HUNT: Let me ask you --  NAPOLITANO: The other key driver is the fact that it’s
so hard to get a visa, and it really reforms the visa
system.  HUNT: Let me - let me just stay on the border security
for a second. Senator Cornyn of  Texas , as you know, has an
amendment that’s supposed to be voted on next week. He says
the government has operating control really of only about
45 percent of the border, and his amendment would specify
that citizenship - a pathway to citizenship is only
possible after a hard target of 90 percent operational
control is achieved. Is that feasible, and how long would
it take?  NAPOLITANO: Well, I don’t think that’s the best way to
do anything at the border. First of all, these are terms of
art. And we have - parts of the border are heavily
trafficked and we have a lot more resources there. Some
parts of the border are very sparsely populated, hardly
ever trafficked. We don’t need the same amount of
technology and manpower there. At a certain point, we don’t
need more buckets at the border. If you think of it as a
ship, we need to fix the ultimate ship. And so
disconnecting the border from everything else that’s
immigration related is really the wrong way to go.  HUNT: So the Cornyn - the current Senate bill would be
preferable to the Cornyn amendment?  NAPOLITANO: Yes. Yes. And the - the path to earn
citizenship in the - in the bill that’s a bipartisan bill
that passed committee in a bipartisan fashion, the path to
earn citizenship is very vigorous in that bill. There are
fines that must be paid, fees that must be paid. There’s a
significant number of years that must be waited. For many
people, it could be as long as 13 years before you could
ultimately become a citizen.  But the good part of the bill is it allows people who
are in the country illegally now to report. So we capture
their biometrics. We capture their identities. We can run
their criminal record checks. They have to pay a fine. They
have to pay a fee. But we bring this whole group of people
out of the shadows, and that has a lot of benefits for
everyone.  HUNT: Let me ask you one question, Madam Secretary,
about drones. They’re used, some now. You’d like to use
them more extensively. Critics like Pat Leahy say he has -
I’m talking about drones for border patrol - says he has
real concerns. It raises questions regarding privacy, the
fourth amendment. How do you - how do you answer Senator
Leahy on those concerns?  NAPOLITANO: Well, we - we do use drones at the border,
and we use other kinds of air coverage as well. That makes
our - our forces on the ground ever more effective because
they can tip from the air to the ground. We also have a
privacy office embedded in the Department of Homeland
Security. So we are constantly making sure that we are
abiding by restrictions and doing what we need to do from a
border security perspective without invading American’s
rights.  HUNT: Ideally, how many more drones would you like to
patrol that border?  NAPOLITANO: I wouldn’t give you a firm number on that
now, but I would tell you that there are certain sectors
where having more drones would be useful. Other sectors,
because of the topography and the underbrush and so forth,
we - we need other kinds of air coverage. So it’s going to
be a combination of things.  HUNT: You knew about these recent revelations of
widespread surveillance of phone data and emails. You’ve
talked about how closely interlinked the NSA, FBI and DHS
are. Did you worry at all that some of this might be too
intrusive, too invasive?  NAPOLITANO: Well, we - in terms of how we use that
data or data for security purposes, we have - as I said,
Al, we have not only a privacy office embedded within DHS,
and these are people who spend their professional lives on
the law of privacy and how that needs to work, but also a
civil liberties office that looks internally at us all the
time in terms of making sure that we are getting that right
balance between privacy and security. And those decisions
we confront every day, but I would want the audience to
know that there are lots of protections built in there for
Americans on how data is not only collected, but under what
restrictions it could be ever be used.  HUNT: Are there specific examples of these techniques
stopping a terrorist from entering the United States or
deporting a threat?  NAPOLITANO: Well, we run data all the - we - we use
that data to identify individuals who have potential
connections to terrorism or other serious crimes for which
there are, for example, INTERPOL warrants out. And we use
that data to help us identify those passengers before they
even board a plane for the United States. And I could give
you some overall numbers, but it’s not a small number.  HUNT: It’s not a small number. And this particular
surveillance, we’re talking about Prism and the Verizon
phones, were responsible for some of those successes?  NAPOLITANO: Well, I’m talking about other kinds of
data. I don’t want to talk about the - the particular
Verizon data that’s exciting so much public attention right
now because that and in and of itself is under
investigation. What I do want to talk about is the - the
kind of data that we have that allows us, for example, to
protect to the greatest extent we can people who are flying
either internationally or domestically.  HUNT: Madam Secretary, you are aware of the
sensitivity here. Let me just ask you this. Candidate Obama
promised to be the most transparent president in the
history of America. He welcomes this debate. But it’s hard
to have a debate if the public doesn’t know the facts.
Would it be a good idea, as a number of senators have
advocated, to make the rulings or at least the rationale of
this secret court public, to let the public know to
reassure voters?  NAPOLITANO: Well, I think a lot of people don’t
understand that there is a court that reviews applications
under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, FISA. And
in the course of that review, there are a lot of changes
made to FISA requests before the court will ultimately
approve them. So not only do you have restrictions within
agencies, not only do you have constantly looking at what
the right balance is, but where FISA is concerned, you
ultimately have a federal court that’s looking at it as
well.  HUNT: Should we make that public, those - those
rulings and that rationale?  NAPOLITANO: I think on some of them that discussion
needs to be had, yes.  HUNT: So maybe in some. Okay. One final question.  NAPOLITANO: Well, I think - I think there needs to be
public understanding and - and a public dialogue about what
kind of information we use, why it’s necessary to protect
Americans and how we make sure that Americans don’t - don’t
live in an Orwellian situation, which I think is
everybody’s fear. And that’s not the case. There are lots
of protections built in. There’s a privacy act, a federal
statute that we abide by. So there are lots of things
already built in. But again, because of current events, I
think that dialogue needs to be held.  HUNT: Has the Edward Snowden case caused you to
reevaluate, to look at your experience with contractors, I
think you have about $12 billion worth of contractors, and
the access they have to - to - to classified information?  NAPOLITANO: Yes. It certainly raised my eyebrow. And
the issue is that you have individuals who are system
administrators, for example, who have really unfettered
access to certain types of information. And I’m not sure
that we’ve really addressed that fairly and squarely. So
obviously there will be lots of lessons learned out of this
latest episode.  HUNT: Okay. Madam Secretary, thank you so much for
joining us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS
TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO
THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE
DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR
USE OF SUCH TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY
OPINION EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A
SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR
COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES
NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP. 