-- Novatek Surges on Sinopec Stake in Yamal Report: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-06-14T15:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/novatek-leads-micex-gains-on-sinopec-yamal-report-moscow-mover.html
OAO Novatek gained the most in three
weeks on a report  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,  China ’s
biggest oil refiner, may sign an agreement to buy a stake in the
Russian gas producer’s Yamal LNG project.  Novatek jumped as much as 7.5 percent and closed up 3.7
percent at 315.06 rubles in Moscow, the biggest gain since May
22. The amount of shares traded was equivalent to 2.1 times the
three-month average. Global depositary receipts advanced 5.4
percent to $110.10.  Reuters reported yesterday that Sinopec, as China
Petrochemical is called, may sign an agreement next week to join
Novatek’s $20 billion project to produce liquefied natural gas
in the Yamal region, citing unidentified people in Moscow.
Mikhail Lozovoy, a Novatek spokesman, declined to comment.  “The market really likes good reports about the entry of a
reliable partner and consumer into the project,”  Alexei Kokin ,
an analyst at UralSib Capital in Moscow, said by phone.
“Chinese participation could instantly solve the question of
sales for Novatek.”  Billionaire Chief Executive Officer Leonid Mikhelson met
with Sinopec and other companies during Deputy Prime Minister
 Arkady Dvorkovich ’s visit to China in February and may offer a
stake in the project, two people in the delegation told
Bloomberg at the time, asking not to be identified because the
information is private.  Total SA (FP)  holds a 20 percent stake in the
project.  Sinopec Chairman Fu Chengyu met with Russian Energy
Minister Alexander Novak on Feb. 26, said the Chinese company in
an online newsletter. Sinopec plans to expand cooperation with
Russian companies in oil and gas production and trade, Fu said
in the statement, without elaborating.  Russia’s benchmark Micex Index added 1.4 percent to
1,299.61.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  