-- Obama Nominates Donors for European Ambassadorships in 2nd Term
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-06-14T21:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/obama-nominates-donors-for-european-ambassadorships-in-2nd-term.html
President  Barack Obama  is nominating
three financial backers for ambassadorships in  Denmark , Spain
and Germany.  Rufus Gifford, the finance director for Obama’s
presidential campaign who is also active in the gay rights
movement, was nominated to be the U.S. envoy to Denmark; James Costos, a financial supporter whose partner, Michael Smith,
redecorated the White House, is being nominated for the job in
Spain; and John Emerson, the president of Capital Guardian Trust
Co. and a California fundraiser, was picked as U.S. ambassador
to Germany.  “It gives me great confidence that such dedicated and
capable individuals have agreed to join this Administration to
serve the American people,” Obama said in a statement
announcing his choices. “I look forward to working with them in
the months and years to come.”  Along with the three donors, Obama nominated Ken Hackett,
the president of the Catholic Relief Services, to serve as
ambassador to the Vatican.  He also made two selections from the ranks of career
foreign service officers, nominating Ambassador Liliana Ayalde,
deputy assistant secretary of state in the Bureau of Western
Hemisphere Affairs, to serve in  Brazil , and Ambassador Patricia
Marie Haslach,  principal deputy assistant secretary in the
Bureau of Conflict and Stabilization Operations, for Ethiopia.  Ayalde had previously served as ambassador to Paraguay and
Haslach was the U.S. envoy in  Laos .  The nominations are subject to Senate confirmation.  Rewarding Supporters  Presidents long have rewarded supporters with embassy
postings with about a third of the ambassadorial posts worldwide
held by political appointees. Their personal ties to a president
make them particularly valued in the capitals of close allies
such as the U.K., France,  Italy , Japan and Canada. The most
difficult or dangerous posts typically go to career officers.  Including today’s nominations, Obama has named 82 political
supporters to ambassadorships, 31 percent of embassy postings,
just above the historical average of 30 percent, according to
statistics compiled by the American Foreign Service Association
in  Washington , a group that represents U.S. career diplomats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  