-- Oil Hunted in Mozambique After World’s Largest Gas Discoveries
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-06-14T08:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/oil-hunted-in-mozambique-after-world-s-largest-gas-discoveries.html
Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  are
finishing a well aimed at achieving the first commercial oil
discovery in Mozambique, the East African country where
explorers have made the century’s largest natural gas finds.  The partners’ Cachalote well off  Mozambique  is drilling
past potential gas fields and looking for crude discoveries
further under the seabed, Tullow Exploration Director, Angus
McCoss said in an interview yesterday. The well is expected to
be finished later this month.  “We think that some of the deeper plays” may have oil,
McCoss said. “That’s what the focus of that campaign is in
trying to find the elusive oil offshore  East Africa .”  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  have found more than
100 trillion cubic feet of gas off  Mozambique , enough fuel to
build the world’s second largest liquefied natural gas plant.
Oil, which explorers prefer because it’s easier and cheaper to
ship to customers, has been harder to find. In 2010, Anadarko’s
Ironclad well showed evidence of oil without making an
economically viable discovery.  “The value lies in oil,” McCoss said in London. Cachalote
is “certainly worth doing as a potentially needle-moving
prospect.”  The partners are targeting about 200 million barrels of oil
at Cachalote, Tom Robinson, a London-based analyst at Nomura
International Plc, wrote in a June 3 report. The well, located
in Area 2 to the south of Mozambique’s gas finds, is due for
completion this month, Tullow said on May 8.  Frontier Area  “This is the first exploration well in this area, so it’s
a frontier area,” Statoil spokesman Baard Glad Pedersen said by
phone. “It has a potential for oil, but we are in the early
phase.” Statoil operates the well.  Anadarko drilled the Barracuda and Black Pearl wells last
year in the southern part of Area 1 to follow up on Ironclad,
Robert G. Gwin, chief financial officer, said Feb. 5. Both were
unsuccessful.  Eni, which is exploring Area 4 off Mozambique, also plans
to drill for oil in the second half of this year,  Claudio
Descalzi , the head of exploration and production, said March 14.  “We going to start a new exploration campaign with the
first well that will be drilled in July,” he said. “It’s in
different kind of environment, different target and mainly oil,
so that is quite important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  