-- Top Wisconsin Court to Hear Domestic Partner Challenge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/top-wisconsin-court-to-hear-domestic-partner-challenge.html
Wisconsin ’s Supreme Court said it
will decide if the state’s same-sex domestic partnership law
violates a constitutional amendment defining marriage as being
between one man and one woman.  The state’s high court also said yesterday it will hear
Governor  Scott Walker ’s appeal of a 2012 trial court ruling that
struck down parts of his legislation curbing
the union-organizing rights of some public employees.  The marriage amendment, approved by voters in 2006, bars
same-sex couples from entering into a legal status “identical
or substantially similar to that of marriage.”  An  intermediate appellate court  last year found the
domestic partnership law didn’t confer “substantially similar”
rights and upheld a trial court ruling the measure is
constitutional.  “It would ‘take pages’ to list the rights and obligations
that go with marriages but not domestic partnerships,” the
Wisconsin Court of Appeals said in its Dec. 20 decision, citing
the lower court’s rationale.  “It is not necessary to list that many here to demonstrate
that, regardless of the precise meaning of the term
‘substantially similar,’ the rights and obligations of marriage
are not substantially similar to the rights and obligations of
domestic partnerships,” Appeals Court Judge  Paul Lundsten  wrote
for the unanimous three-judge panel.  Domestic Partnership  The domestic partnership legislation was signed into law by
former Governor James E. Doyle, a Democrat. His Republican
successor, Walker, and Republican state Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen  have declined to defend the measure.  Fair Wisconsin , a gay rights advocacy group, intervened in
the case to preserve the domestic partnership law.  Dana Brueck, a spokeswoman for Van Hollen, said the
attorney general wouldn’t comment on the Supreme Court’s
decision to review the case.  Megin McDonell, a spokeswoman for Madison, Wisconsin-based
Fair Wisconsin, didn’t immediately reply to voice-mail and e-mail requests for comment.  The union rights measure, known as Act 10, required annual
recertification votes for union representation and made
voluntary the payment of union dues. Some groups of public
safety officers were exempted from its provisions.  Free Speech  Trial court Judge Juan Colas in Madison ruled last year
that parts of Walker’s 2011 legislation unduly burdened affected
workers’ constitutional rights to free speech and free
association.  A three-judge panel of Wisconsin’s intermediate-level Court
of Appeals in April asked the state’s highest court to decide
the issue after the Walker administration appealed the Colas
decision.  “It’s hard to imagine a dispute with greater statewide
effect or greater need for a final resolution by the  Supreme
Court ,” the appellate judges said in their 24-page request.  A Chicago-based federal appeals court in January upheld Act
10 in its entirety in a separately filed case.  The domestic partnership case is Appling v. Doyle,
2011AP572, Wisconsin Supreme Court (Madison). The lower court
case is Appling v. Doyle, 2010-cv-004434,  Dane County ,
Wisconsin, Circuit Court (Madison).  The union rights case is Madison Teachers Inc. v. Walker,
2012-ap-02067, Wisconsin Court of Appeals, District IV
(Madison). The trial-court case is Madison Teachers Inc. v.
Walker, 11-cv-03774, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court,
Branch 10 (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  