-- Orban Constitution Threatens Hungary Laws, Experts Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-06-14T16:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/orban-constitution-threatens-hungary-laws-experts-says.html
Hungary ’s new constitution, which
consolidates Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s power, threatens the
rule of law in the European Union member state, a panel of
experts said.  The fourth amendment of the Hungarian constitution,
approved in March, “endangers the constitutional system of
checks and balances,” the Venice Commission, an independent
advisory body on constitutional matters of the 47-nation  Council
of Europe , said in a report today. The findings were criticized
by Orban’s government.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive, is raising
pressure on Orban, calling on the government to heed warnings
about erosion of the rule of law. European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  “expects that the Hungarian authorities will take
due account of” the Venice Commission’s “opinion and address
it in full accordance with both European Union and  Council of
Europe  principles, rules and values,” it said on April 12.  The European Commission is “confident” of reaching an
agreement with Hungary on two of three concerns on constitution,
commission spokesman Olivier Bailly told reporters in Brussels
today.  Orban has asserted his influence over independent
institutions since winning elections in 2010, drawing criticism
from the EU, the U.S. and the  United Nations . His lawmakers
passed the new constitution over opposition protests, ousted the
chief justice of the  Supreme Court  and set up a media regulator
led by ruling-party appointees.  The EU’s focus and the subject of the report is the fourth
constitutional amendment, which curtails judicial authority,
limits campaign ads in private media, restricts the definition
of a family to marriage and allows the criminalization of
homeless people who live on the streets. The  Constitutional
Court  had vetoed these in past decisions.  ‘Checks, Balances’  According to the Venice Commission, the fourth amendment
“seriously undermines the possibilities of constitutional
review in Hungary and endangers the constitutional system of
checks and balances.”  Thorbjoern Jagland, secretary-general of the Council of
Europe, an inter-governmental organization that promotes
democracy and human rights, requested the report.  Orban’s government said the Venice Commission’s opinion is
based on “unfounded claims” and reached “disproportionately
severe conclusions” about “the state of the independence of
the judiciary, the constitutional review and the constitutional
checks and balances in Hungary,” according to a 17-page
rebuttal.  The Venice Commission says the fourth amendment is a
“threat for constitutional justice and for the supremacy of the
basic principles” contained in the constitution. Several of the
provisions also contradict European standards and Hungary’s
constitution, the report said.  Political Instrument  The report says the amendment “is the result of an
instrumental view of the constitution as a political means of
the governmental majority and is a sign of the abolition of the
essential difference between constitution-making and ordinary
politics.”  The amendment has fueled concern for the rule of law and
checks and balances in Hungary, where Orban has wielded a two-thirds parliamentary majority since 2010.  The European Commission says it will start infringement
procedures against Hungary “where relevant” and the foreign
ministers of  Germany ,  Denmark ,  Finland  and the Netherlands in
March pushed to impose EU funding cuts on member states that
violate the 27-nation bloc’s democratic values.  Orban’s government published its statement today based on a
draft opinion of the Venice Commission. It asked for a
“fundamental” revision of the opinion.  ‘Abusing Power’  “The European Union is abusing its power and is asking of
us things it doesn’t have to right to ask and expects of us
things which it doesn’t expect of others,” Orban said in an MR1
state radio interview today.  Still, the government has moved to partially address the
EU’s concerns by submitting to parliament a fifth amendment to
the constitution that would revoke the right of the National
Judicial Agency president to reassign court cases. It would also
delete from the constitution a passage about the levying of
extraordinary taxes in case of an unfavorable court rulings.  Hungary is sticking to its ban on election ads in private
media, over EU concerns. The Venice Commission said such a ban
has a “disproportionate effect on opposition parties.”  The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of  Europe , of
which Hungary is a member, will meet in the week of June 24 to
consider starting a monitoring procedure on Hungary’s adherence
to the organization’s values, according to Panos Kakaviatos,
spokesman of the Strasbourg-based organization. If approved, it
would be the first time such monitoring would be initiated
against an EU member.  “The Venice Commission’s opinion will be taken into
account by the assembly on whether or not to formally launch a
monitoring procedure against Hungary,” Kakaviatos said by phone
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  