-- House Wants to Force Pentagon to Award Purple Hearts
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-06-14T22:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/house-wants-to-force-pentagon-to-award-purple-hearts.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
passed legislation that would award Purple Heart medals to
victims of the shootings at Fort Hood,  Texas , a move the
Pentagon says could disrupt the alleged shooter’s trial.  The provision in the defense authorization bill, H.R. 1960,
would require the Defense Department to extend the military
honor to all those killed or wounded during the shootings at the
Army base on Nov. 5, 2009. The bill, passed 315-108, would
authorize $638 billion in discretionary, mandatory and war
spending by the Defense Department and related agencies in
fiscal 2014.  The Pentagon opposes the Fort Hood provision, saying it
could adversely affect the court-martial of MajorNidal Hasan,
the Army psychiatrist charged in the shooting deaths of 13
fellow soldiers and the wounding of almost three dozen people.
Hasan is awaiting a military trial in Texas.  The Purple Heart provision “would undermine the
prosecution of Major Nidal Hasan by materially and directly
compromising Major Hasan’s ability to receive a fair trial,”
the Pentagon wrote in a position paper, referring to language in
last year’s House defense authorization. “This provision will
be viewed as setting the stage for a formal declaration that
Major Hasan is a terrorist.”  Second Attempt  This is the second time the House has passed legislation
with the Purple Heart requirement. Last year’s Senate bill,
written by Michigan Democrat  Carl Levin , didn’t include that
language, and the provision didn’t make it through a House-Senate conference. Once again, there is no similar language in
this year’s Senate measure, S. 1034, which the Armed Services
Committee approved yesterday, 23-3.  “The  Department of Defense  is committed to the integrity
of the ongoing court martial proceedings of Major Nidal Hasan
and for that reason will not further characterize, at this time,
the incident that occurred at Fort Hood,” Air Force Lieutenant
Colonel Tom Crosson, a Pentagon spokesman, said today in a
statement.  This year’s House bill also seeks to force the Pentagon to
award Purple Heart medals to victims of another shooting in
2009. Abdulhakim Muhammad allegedly attacked a recruiting
station in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , shooting one person to death
and wounding another on June 1 of that year.  ‘Dramatic Departure’  “The proposed bill alters the long-established  Purple
Heart award criterion ,” the Pentagon said in its position
paper, reported earlier this year by  ABC News . “To expand the
Purple Heart award criteria to include domestic criminal acts or
domestic terror attacks would be a dramatic departure.”  The White House expressed its opposition this week to the
provision and to the defense bill as a whole. “This provision
is inconsistent with the award criteria for the Purple Heart,”
the Office of Management and Budget wrote in a  statement of
administration policy .  “They are opposing it,” Representative  John Carter , a
Texas Republican whose congressional district includes Fort
Hood, said of the Defense Department today in an interview. “I
disagree with the Pentagon. They don’t want to call those
battlefield injuries.”  Carter has sponsored legislation, H.R. 705, that would
provide the Purple Heart and subsequent benefits to the Fort
Hood victims.  In an e-mailed statement, Carter said he’s refraining from
commenting on the Hasan case so as not to affect the trial’s
outcome. “I do however remain committed and dedicated to
ensuring the victims of the Fort Hood shooting receive the
benefits and support they deserve,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  