-- House Leaders Planning Rape Exception For Abortion Bill
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-06-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/house-leaders-will-add-rape-exception-to-abortion-bill.html
After the uproar over a lawmaker’s
comment about sexual-assault victims, Republican leaders in the
U.S. House of Representatives are preparing a rape exception for
a bill that would ban abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy.  Pregnancies caused by rape or incest will be excluded from
the ban in the legislation, H.R. 1797, under a change to be
added by the Rules Committee to avoid a separate vote.  The new text, which the panel is scheduled to consider on
June 17, was  posted on its website  yesterday. Republican leaders
plan to bring the bill up for a full House vote later next week.  “There has been a lot of discussion” among Republicans
about the measure, Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia said
yesterday on the House floor. “I have been receiving comments,
input from members” on the bill, he said. Party leaders who
control the chamber had been “weighing” those comments about
the bill and “how it comes to the floor,” he said.  Plans to add the exceptions were disclosed two days after
the bill’s sponsor, Representative Trent Franks, said during a
Judiciary Committee meeting that the number of incidents of
rapes causing pregnancy “is very low.”  Franks, an Arizona Republican, made the comment on June 12
as the committee debated a Democratic amendment seeking
exceptions for rape and incest. He later sought to clarify his
remark, saying that he meant to say that pregnancies caused by
rape are only rarely carried for as long as six months before
the victim seeks an abortion. The Democratic amendment was
rejected in committee by a 13-17 vote.  Video Circulated  Democrats circulated a  video  of Franks making the remark,
reigniting an uproar over rape and pregnancy that hurt
Republicans in the 2012 election. The Democrats also pointed out
that all the Republicans on the Judiciary Committee are men.  Republican leaders then replaced Franks as the bill’s floor
manager with Representative Marsha Blackburn of  Tennessee .  “This is damage control,” said  Jean Schroedel , who
teaches politics at Claremont Graduate University in Claremont,
 California , said of the Republican moves.  She predicted that the leadership’s responses won’t sway
Republican Party supporters or abortion-rights activists, “the
people who are going to pay attention to this.” What’s more,
most voters won’t remember it by the next election, 18 months
from now, Schroedel said by telephone.  Changes Panned  Ilyse Hogue, president of NARAL Pro-Choice America, a
Washington-based abortion-rights group, called the planned
legislative change “window dressing” that is “clearly
intended solely for public relations purposes,” in a statement.  Franks, meantime, is appealing to supporters for more
donations, saying he has become “the No. 1 target of
abortionists,” the  Arizona  Republic newspaper  said .  “NARAL,  Planned Parenthood  and the taxpayer funded
abortion lobby is attacking me for one reason -- I’m 100 percent
unapologetically pro-life and I won’t back down,” Franks told
supporters by e-mail, according to the newspaper’s website.  Franks said abortion-rights advocacy groups “will spend
whatever it takes to destroy me, remove me from Congress, and
stop me from protecting any more unborn children.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  