-- Lower Crop Prices Seen Erasing Savings in U.S. House Farm Plan
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-06-14T04:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/lower-crop-prices-seen-erasing-savings-in-u-s-house-farm-plan.html
A drop in the price of corn, rice
and other crops may trigger so much additional aid to farmers
under a bill being considered by the U.S. House that it would
wipe out the bill’s projected savings in crop subsidies,
according to a study by opponents of the measure.  A 15 percent drop from the government’s projected prices
for corn,  rice  and other crops, for example, would trigger
payments of $6.9 billion a year, exceeding by 40 percent the
cost of programs lawmakers plan to cut, Nick Paulson, an
assistant professor at the University of  Illinois , said in a
study published today by Environmental Working Group, which
opposes the proposed $939 billion House bill. Higher support
prices and new insurance programs would raise farmer payouts and
leave taxpayers a bigger bill, the report said.  “What the new programs do is create the exposure to
potentially greater outlays” because they’re price-based
compared with the fixed-payment approach that now covers much of
subsidy spending, Paulson said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The expected cost is less, but the potential cost
could be larger.”  The farm bill benefits crop-buyers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , grocers including  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  and insurers
including Wells Fargo & Co. and  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  Lawmakers have sought
to revamp the subsidies for almost two years.  Prices of corn and soybeans, the two most valuable U.S.
crops, have entered a bear market after reaching records last
year, during the worst U.S. drought since the 1930s. Corn traded
in  Chicago  closed yesterday at $5.3525 a bushel, down 37 percent
from its Aug. 10 peak, while soybeans cost $13.005, a decline of
27 percent from its record reached Sept. 4. Wheat is also down,
while cotton and rice prices have risen this year.  The Senate on June 10 approved reauthorizing all U.S.
Department of Agriculture programs, at a cost $955 billion over
10 years, by a 66-27 vote. The House, which last year declined
to debate a plan crafted by its agriculture committee, may take
up its version of a law next week.  The Senate bill is S. 954. The House bill is H.R. 1947.  Environmental Working Group funded the study, Paulson said.  Editors: Steve Geimann, Jon Morgan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  