-- Panama Canal Expansion Fuels 7% Growth in First Quarter
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2013-06-15T00:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/panama-s-economic-growth-slowed-to-7-in-first-quarter.html
Panama ’s  economy  expanded 7 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in
about three years, as construction projects and expansion of the
Panama Canal drive growth.  Economic growth slowed from 10 percent in the last three
months of 2012, the national statistics institute said today in
a statement. The Central American nation is forecast to grow 7.8
percent this year, according to the median estimate of seven
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Having registered the fastest growth in Latin America for
the past two years, it’s only “natural” that Panama’s $33
billion economy expands at a slower pace, though still among the
highest in the region, said Carl Ross, managing director at
brokerage Oppenheimer & Co. in Atlanta.  “I don’t see much getting in the way of Panama right
now,” Ross said in a phone interview from  New York . “The canal
expansion is full steam ahead, the infrastructure projects are
full steam ahead.”  Fitch Ratings  affirmed the nation’s dollar bonds last month
at BBB, citing high public investment that is likely to
“safeguard the economy from external shocks and the electoral
cycle over the next two years.”  Growth is expected to average 8 percent and drop to 6
percent when the $5.25 billion canal expansion is completed in
2015, Fitch said in a May 22 report. Fueled by the expansion
project, foreign direct investment climbed 10 percent last year
from a year earlier to $3 billion, the  United Nations   reported .  Panama joined Central American neighbors Honduras,  Costa
Rica  and  Guatemala  in selling global bonds this year, offering
$750 million of 40-year debt on May 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  