-- Philippines Has Scope to Ease, Tetangco Says as Markets Swing
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-06-14T05:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/philippines-has-scope-to-ease-tetangco-says-as-markets-swing.html
The Philippines has scope to ease
monetary policy to protect growth, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said, as authorities grapple with market swings that
spurred declines in Asian stocks and currencies this week.  “We have scope to further ease,” Tetangco said today in
an interview with  Rishaad Salamat  on Bloomberg Television. “The
benign  inflation (PHC2II)  outlook gives us room to further support growth
if this proves to be needed. That said, we’re also mindful of
financial-stability implications of keeping interest rates very
low for an extended period of time.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas yesterday ended a series of
cuts on its special deposit accounts, holding it at 2 percent
while also keeping the benchmark  overnight rate  at a record-low
3.5 percent. Capital outflows from  Southeast Asia  have increased
after Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month the Federal
Reserve could consider reducing stimulus.  Investors pulled $2.1 billion from Asian stocks in the week
to June 12, the most since August 2011, Citigroup Inc. analyst
 Markus Rosgen  said in a report today. The Philippine  Stock
Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose 3.1 percent at the noon break in Manila
after sliding yesterday by the most since October 2008. The peso
gained 0.6 percent to 42.85 per dollar after falling to a one-year low this week.  Bangko Sentral maintains “a strategic presence” in the
foreign-exchange market, Tetangco said. It has employed macro-prudential measures and stepped up communication of its policy
intent, he said, adding that there is space to “respond swiftly
and appropriately” when needed.  “We don’t target any particular level of  exchange rate ,”
Tetangco said. “What we hope we are able to accomplish is to
create a relatively stable foreign-exchange environment where
businesses can plan. And looking at the fundamentals, the peso
remains supported by positive fundamentals.”  Previous Measures  Bangko Sentral will study the impact of its previous
measures on the financial markets and the economy before
deciding on its next move, Tetangco said. Inflation held at a
13-month low of 2.6 percent in May.  The Philippines’ first investment-grade rankings from Fitch
Ratings and  Standard & Poor’s  earlier this year had lured
inflows, boosting the peso and prompting measures to avert
asset-bubble risks. The central bank cut the rate on SDAs thrice
this year, banned access for mutual funds and individually
managed accounts, and relaxed curbs on dollar purchases.  Indonesia yesterday unexpectedly raised its benchmark rate
for the first time since 2011, while South Korea held borrowing
costs after a reduction in May. India will probably keep its
repurchase rate at 7.25 percent on June 17, according to 14 of
23 economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News .  The World Bank this week cut its 2013 global growth
forecast and said the recovery “remains hesitant and uneven.”
Philippine expansion last quarter was the fastest in Asia, with
 gross domestic product  rising 7.8 percent from a year earlier,
as President  Benigno Aquino  increased spending to a record.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  