-- Pimco Joining Sellers Spurs Steepest Monthly Losses: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-06-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/pimco-joining-sellers-spurs-steepest-monthly-losses-muni-credit.html
The $3.7 trillion municipal market
is poised for its first two-month slide since 2011 as  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, is joining
individual investors in reducing holdings of local debt.  Tax-free securities have lost 1.5 percent this month after
a 1.3 percent drop in May, and are underperforming Treasuries by
the most since December, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show. Amid speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will scale back
its bond buying, benchmark 10-year muni yields are the  highest 
since March 2012.  Individuals, who own about 70 percent of munis directly or
through funds, have led the exodus, pulling out the most money
this year. Gross, co-founder of Pacific Investment Management
Co., cut his local-debt allocation by one percentage point to 4
percent in May, the lowest since July, in the  $285 billion  Total
Return Fund. The  Newport Beach , California-based company
released the data on its website.  “When you’re managing a huge portfolio like that and
you’re trying to manage specifically against downside risks in
the market, then it’s reasonable that you would lighten up a bit
on munis,” said Matt Fabian, managing director of Concord,
Massachusetts-based research firm Municipal Market Advisors.  Cash Buffer  The municipal market is losing value even as investors are
set to receive $128 billion of principal and interest payments
in June, July and August, $16 billion more than last year,
according to Bank of America.  If history is any guide, this time of year is an attractive
period to buy local debt. Yields on 10-year munis have declined
 8.3 percent on average  in July in the past four years, trailing
only April’s average drop of 9 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Still, investors pulled $1.6 billion from U.S. muni mutual
funds in the past week, the most this year, Lipper US Fund Flows
data show.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Gross, said in an e-mail
that the company doesn’t comment on its holdings. Gross also
reduced Treasuries to 37 percent of the fund’s assets in May
from 39 percent, even as he says the Fed isn’t about to raise
 interest rates .  Gross’s Post  “Fed’s not raising interest rates for years,” Gross
posted on Twitter June 12. “That makes intermediate Treasuries
a buy at 2.0 percent+.”  The decreased allocation to munis in the Total Return Fund
may influence the broader market because of the fund’s size and
the limited trading in local debt, said Gary Pollack, managing
director with Deutsche Bank AG’s private-wealth unit in New
York.  “The bid side of the muni market is not as deep and broad
as other fixed-income sectors,” said Pollack, who oversees
about $6 billion of munis. “So selling pressure in the
magnitude of billions will have a negative impact on munis.”  Yields on 10-year benchmark local debt have jumped by about
0.7 percentage point since early May, to  2.36 (BVMB10Y)  percent.  Even as investors are set to receive the three-month wave
of redemption funds, they are still waiting for yields to climb
higher before buying tax-exempt bonds, Fabian said.  Loss Leader  “They got the cash, but they also saw losses,” Fabian
said. Some are also being drawn away by stocks after the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index set a  record high  last month, he
said.  Once yields on benchmark tax-exempt debt maturing in 10
years reach 2.4 percent to 2.5 percent, demand will increase,
Fabian said. Pollack estimates a range of 2.5 percent to 3
percent will attract individuals.  Such investors have money to purchase munis as they have
been putting their assets in cash and short-term investments,
analysts led by  George Friedlander , chief muni strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in New York, wrote in a June 12 report.  The increase in yields “has already gone far enough to
make some yield levels attractive relative to risk,” the
analysts wrote.  In 30-year maturities this week, muni yields exceeded those
on similar-maturity Treasuries by the most in more than a month.  Benchmark 30-year munis yield 3.53 percent, compared with
about 3.32 percent for federal debt. The ratio of the two
yields, a measure of relative value, is about 106 percent, the
highest since April. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis
are relative to Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  