-- Gilts Advance on Bets Central Banks to Keep Easing; Pound Falls
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-14T15:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/pound-set-for-third-weekly-advance-as-u-k-house-prices-increase.html
U.K. government bonds advanced for a
third day amid bets the  Federal Reserve  and other central banks
will maintain monetary stimulus to keep borrowing costs low.  Benchmark 10-year gilts extended their winning streak to
the longest in two months as a measure of inflation expectations
was near the lowest since January. The  Bank of England  said
today that Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker , who has voted against
expanding the central bank’s asset-purchase plan, will leave
after helping Mervyn King’s successor  Mark Carney  settle into
his new post. The pound weakened against the dollar after
advancing to a four-month high yesterday.  “There hasn’t been much domestic news, so the moves in
gilts have largely been driven by U.S. Treasuries,” said Henry Skeoch, an inflation-linked strategist at Barclays Plc in
London. “The cheapening in 10-year U.K. break-evens reflects
the fall in headline inflation globally. Real yields have risen
by more than nominal yields, reflecting selling pressures,
pushing break-evens narrower.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 2.07 percent at 4:30 p.m.  London  time.
The 1.75 percent security maturing in September 2022 rose 0.48,
or 4.80 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,569) face amount, to 97.37.
The three-day advance is the longest run of gains since the
period ended April 15.  Treasuries rose for a second day as speculation the Fed is
about to scale back its program of asset purchases waned. U.S.
policy makers next meet on June 18-19. The Wall Street Journal
reported the U.S. central bank may push back on expectations of
an interest-rate increase.  Break-Even Rate  The U.K. 10-year  break-even rate , derived from the
difference in yield between gilts and index-linked securities,
was little changed at 2.92 percentage points after declining to
2.897 percentage points on June 11, the lowest level since Jan.
10. The gauge reflects expectations for consumer prices over the
life of the debt.  Tucker, who has been at the Bank of England for three
decades, was thwarted in his ambition to lead the institution
when Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  opted for a
foreigner as governor for the first time. Tucker voted against
expanding the 375 billion-pound asset-purchase plan in the 10
meetings through May.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 1.7 percent this year
through yesterday, according to the Bloomberg U.K. Sovereign
Bond  Index. (BRIT)  Treasuries declined 1.1 percent and German bonds
dropped 0.9 percent, separate indexes show.  ‘Too Toppy’  The  Office for National Statistics  said U.K. construction
volume fell 6.5 percent in April from a month earlier.  “Cable just got a bit too toppy above $1.57 so we are
seeing a bit of a reversal,” said Lee McDarby, head of dealing
on the corporate and institutional treasury desk at Investec
Bank Plc in London, referring to the pound-dollar  exchange rate .
“The pound has been a beneficiary of broad dollar weakness.”  Sterling dropped 0.2 percent to $1.5688 after climbing to
$1.5738 yesterday, the highest level since Feb. 11. The U.K.
currency was little changed at 85.04 pence per euro.  The pound has gained 3.9 percent in the past three months,
the best performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose 2.3
percent and the dollar fell 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  