-- Pritzker-Winning Architect Bucks China’s Megacity Trend
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-06-14T03:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/pritzker-winning-architect-buck-china-s-megacity-trend.html
The day after Chinese architect Wang
Shu was awarded the $100,000 Pritzker Architecture Prize, the
field’s equivalent of a Nobel, in May 2012, he returned to the
old Beijing neighborhood where he grew up and found it in the
process of being demolished.  The hutong, with its maze of narrow streets and traditional
courtyard houses, was being sacrificed to make room for a new
philosophy center.  While European cities that exploded with industrialization
in the 19th and 20th centuries are still sorting out the
consequences of modernization, their boom times appear sedate
compared with  China ’s last two decades. By 2030, the mainland
will be home to 13 mega cities, those with a population of 10
million or more. That’s up from six today, estimates a McKinsey
& Co. report.  That breakneck urbanization is quickly obliterating 5,000
years of architecture and culture.  “Cities today have become far too large,” Wang said in an
interview while visiting  New York  in April. “I’m really
worried, because it’s happening too fast and we have already
lost so much.”  Wang, a sturdy 49-year-old, has built his small
architectural practice as a riposte to this heedless
destruction. With his wife, architect Lu Wenyu, he runs a 10-person firm called Amateur Architecture Studio in Hangzhou, a
picturesque lakeside city southwest of  Shanghai .  Breakneck Growth  The firm’s modest output of 50 buildings hardly seems up to
the task of altering the course of China’s development
juggernaut. Instead, Wang tries to persuade through the
structures he builds.  They are idiosyncratic and contemporary, yet evoke China’s
densely packed older cities.  “His avant-garde designs come from Chinese tradition,”
says Ou Ning, an artist and curator whose own work has often
focused on China’s rapidly evolving urban landscape.  That juxtaposition is on display at the Hangzhou campus of
the China Academy of Art. Unlike the rigidly ordered superblocks
of Chinese mega cities, expanding in endless grids of wide,
noisy boulevards, Wang’s buildings, completed in 2007, cling to
a slope in a closely spaced jumble.  The apparent disorder is intentional, the architect said.
“I want the campus to feel as if it is more than one person’s
vision.” That’s a sensibility utterly at odds with cities laid
out by international master-planning firms.  Draping Roofs  The academy buildings shape intimate interior and exterior
courtyards. In one long structure, roofs drape between peaks,
suggesting both a mountain range in silhouette and the
traditional shed-roof buildings of Chinese villages. Shadowy
arcades have walls punched with randomly arranged windows, one
of the architect’s hallmarks.  Wang’s 2008 History Museum in Ningbo, with tilting walls
that look weathered by centuries, resembles an ancient fortress.
Up close, the variegated surface proves to be exquisitely
assembled of worn salvaged stones and old roof tile -- the use
of recycled materials is a theme in Wang’s work. Shades of gray
alternate with random patches of bright orange terracotta.  Inside, angled walls and narrow passages open to grand
atriums. These, too, recall the mysterious qualities of the
hutong’s narrow streets, twisting and turning in shadow before
flowing into sunny courtyards.  Wang says he once met a woman who told him she visited the
museum often and would stare at its walls for long stretches
because she found “many familiar things” in them.  “I believe you can design a place that awakens people’s
feelings and their memories,” he says.  Pritzker Winner  Since winning the Pritzker, Wang says he gets calls every
day from prospective clients in China and around the world, but
he wants to stick to the small-scale, deliberate approach he and
his wife have developed.  “People said you have a responsibility to take on more, so
now we take on two new projects a year instead of one,” he
says.  Can such a deliberately small firm really make a broader
impact? Wang and Lu have extended their influence as teachers.
Wang founded the architecture school at Hangzhou’s Academy of
Art and is its dean. The program admits just 120 students a year
out of an applicant pool of more than 10,000.  Wang’s work helps advance a nascent interest in historic
preservation, says Ma Yansong, a young principal of an
innovative, fast-growing Beijing architecture firm,  MAD .  High Anxiety  “Shu deserved to receive the Pritzker,” Ma says. “But
the fundamental challenge of Chinese urbanization is density,
which in  Asia  means tall buildings. How do you connect high
density with nature, so that people don’t see themselves as
living in a machine?”  Residents are becoming disenchanted with the coldness of
the instant contemporary skyline city, he adds.  “When the first high-rise modern buildings went up,
everyone wanted to move out of the hutongs, which were dirty and
didn’t even have private toilets,” he says. “Now, when modern
buildings are all around, even taxi drivers tell you they long
for the social world the hutongs supported, a real place shared
by all kinds of people.”  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  London  and New York  weekend guides 
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://www.jamessrussell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 