-- Requiring Immigrants to Learn English Sought in Bill
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-06-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/requiring-immigrants-to-learn-english-sought-in-bill.html
Senate Republicans are seeking
further changes to a broad immigration bill that would require
immigrants to learn English and limit their access to government
benefits.  Republicans’ main demand for revisions to the measure has
been stricter security on the U.S.-Mexico border in exchange for
the path to citizenship Democrats want for about 11 million
undocumented immigrants now in the U.S. The additional proposals
are spelled out in amendments offered during the first week of
Senate debate on the bill.  “The more we can toughen it up and strengthen it, without
abusing people, the better off this bill’s going to be, and the
better chance it has of passing,” said Senator  Orrin Hatch , a
Utah Republican. He has said the bill must be amended before he
will vote for it.  Senate Democrats are pressing to pass a comprehensive
immigration measure before July 4 that President  Barack Obama 
made a priority after Hispanic voters gave him 71 percent
support in his November re-election. Republicans are trying to
reconnect with those voters, and House Speaker  John Boehner  has
said Congress needs to resolve the immigration issue.  The Republican-led House Judiciary Committee plans to vote
on two immigration-related bills next week. Panel chairman Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, said his committee will
consider a bill focused on internal enforcement and one that
addresses the future flow of agricultural workers.  Undocumented Workers  The Senate bill, S. 744, would allow undocumented
immigrants who pass a criminal background check, pay taxes and
fines, and start learning English to apply for permanent legal
status 10 years after border security improvements are made.
They could seek citizenship after about another three years.  Republicans are seeking additional restrictions.  Hatch and Florida Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican co-sponsor of the bill, proposed prohibiting any non-citizen who
gains legal status from obtaining welfare benefits.  Hatch and Rubio want to require immigrants to pay back
taxes to qualify for temporary legal status, and would make
those on the citizenship path wait five years before receiving
subsidies through the 2010 health-care law. They also would
specify that unauthorized employment can’t count toward
eligibility for Social Security benefits.  Senator  James Inhofe , an Oklahoma Republican, has proposed
amendments to declare English the official language of the U.S.
and allow employers to require workers to speak English in the
workplace.  Rubio also proposed an amendment to bar undocumented
immigrants from gaining permanent legal residency until they can
read, write and speak English.  ‘About Assimilation’  “It’s about assimilation, and I think it’s good for the
immigrant,” Rubio said in an interview at the Capitol. “I
think it’s good for the immigrant to know English and to be able
to function in English. It’s going to expand their horizons and
their ability to prosper in the economy.”  Frank Sharry , executive director of America’s Voice, a
Washington group that supports citizenship for undocumented
immigrants, described the changes Rubio and Hatch are seeking as
“pernicious.” He said the proposals could unravel the bill’s
bipartisan support and questioned why Rubio, as an author of the
measure, would back changes that may imperil it.  “He seems to be straining to keep his conservative street
cred, but, in the process, he’s threatening the bill he helped
to negotiate,” Sharry said.  Rubio has said he’s seeking changes that would make the
bill more acceptable to House Republicans. He said his proposal
was “not a major change” because English proficiency is
already required for an individual to become a U.S. citizen.  Revoking Status  Senator  Roger Wicker , a Mississippi Republican, has
proposed revoking legal status from immigrants who fraudulently
claimed a federal benefit or left the U.S. for more than 180
days in a year.  “If they’ve committed a fraud already, they shouldn’t be
given special treatment,” Wicker said in an interview at the
Capitol. He said he would “like to get to yes” on the bill and
that adoption of his amendment might help.  Senator  Mike Lee , a Utah Republican, proposed requiring
annual reports from the Secretary of Health and Human Services
on the amount of federal benefits provided to undocumented
immigrants and those with temporary legal status.  Some of the proposals may run counter to the advice of
former Florida Governor Jeb Bush. After meeting with  House
Republicans  June 13, he said he advised them to shift the debate
from how to deal with undocumented immigrants and toward the
potential of legal immigration to fuel economic growth.  Changing Conversation  “You change the conversation from the question of illegal
immigration, and you move it to how do you create an economic
strategy of sustained economic growth, and the whole dynamic and
conversation changes,” Bush said at an event at the Bipartisan
Policy Center in Washington.  Democratic senators also are seeking changes to the bill.
Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, wants to
grant married same-sex couples equal treatment with heterosexual
couples under the immigration law. The proposal is opposed by
many Republicans.  Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat, has
said he wants to limit immigrants’ access to guns, potentially
reviving a contentious debate over  gun control .  Senate Debate  The Senate will resume consideration of the immigration
bill on June 17. The chamber on June 13 defeated Iowa Republican
 Charles Grassley ’s proposal to prohibit legal status for
undocumented immigrants until the government shows it had
“effective control” of the border for six months.  Hatch won changes to a visa program for high-skilled
workers in exchange for his vote in the Judiciary Committee last
month. He told reporters that  New York  Senator  Charles Schumer ,
a Democratic co-sponsor of the immigration plan, pledged to help
him reach a compromise on his amendments.  “He’s promised me he would work with me, and we’ll get it
done,” Hatch said. “We get it done, and we can get near 70
votes or more; this is a very viable bill.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  