-- Riskier Junk-Loan Demand Soaring Like It’s 2007: Credit Markets
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-06-14T17:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/riskier-junk-loan-demand-soaring-like-it-s-2007-credit-markets.html
Junk-rated borrowers from  Rite Aid
Corp. (RAD)  to Atkins Nutritionals Holdings Inc. are raising a riskier
type of loan that offers a lesser claim on their assets at a
pace last seen before the financial crisis.  Second-lien loan issuance has climbed to $17.1 billion this
year, versus $18.6 billion in all of last year and on pace to
surpass the record $28.7 billion issued in 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Rite Aid, the third-largest U.S.
drugstore chain, reduced the interest rate on its $500 million
loan due to increased investor demand, while dieting company
Atkins raised $355 million in loans, including second-lien debt,
to fund a dividend.  Investors are turning to the junior-ranking loans that
would shield them from an increase in interest rates and offer
more protection than bonds, which have been pummeled as
speculation increases the  Federal Reserve (FDTR)  will pare back its
unprecedented stimulus. Second-lien loans have fallen just 0.3
percent since Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank
could reduce its asset purchases if the economy shows sustained
improvement, while junk bonds have lost 9 times more.  “A second-lien loan is effectively a high-yield bond in
disguise,” John Bell, who co-manages $4.4 billion in fixed-income assets at Loomis Sayles & Co. in  Boston , said in a
telephone interview. “There’s notably more yield and low-default expectations in general on the demand side.”  Second-Lien Premium  The extra interest that investors demand over the London
interbank offered rate to hold second-lien debt fell to 7.7
percentage points on June 6, from 9.1 percentage points at the
start of the year, according to Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ
Leveraged Commentary and Data.  First-lien loans, which generally provide the highest
claims on a company’s assets in the event of a default, paid an
average 3.84 percentage points more than Libor last week,
according to S&P LCD. Three-month Libor was set at 0.27 percent
yesterday.  The trailing 12-month leveraged loan default rate declined
to 2.5 percent last month, from 2.9 percent in April, according
to a June 10 Moody’s Investors Service report. That compares
with 9.4 percent in August 2009, according to the New York-based
ratings firm.  “In a benign default environment investors are willing to
step down the  capital structure ,” Scott Baskind, a New York-based senior money manager for  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) ’s bank loan group,
said in a telephone interview. “Investors have been looking for
risk assets that would provide juicier yields. The demand side
of the market remains very strong.”  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, a gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk fell even as  consumer confidence  dropped this month
and industrial production remained unchanged.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.5 basis point to a mid-price of 81.7 basis points at 12:30
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
index has fallen from a two month closing high of 87.5 basis
points on June 12.  Investors are trying to gauge when the  Federal Reserve  will
scale back its $85 billion monthly bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will announce
the central bank’s policy on June 19 after the two-day  Federal
Open Market Committee  meeting.the cost of protecting corporate
bonds from default in the U.S. fell from a two-month high.  Morgan Stanley Bonds  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bonds of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 4.2 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, according to data from Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate   swap spread , a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.14 basis point to 15.91 basis points.
The gauge narrows when investors favor assets such as company
debentures and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities .  Limited Losses  Funds that purchase loans have seen deposits of $28.5
billion, a 38 percent increase in total assets since the start
of the year, according to a report from Bank of America Corp.
dated June 6.  Losses on second-lien loans have been limited as returns on
junk bonds plummeted following Bernanke’s May 22 testimony to
the Joint Economic Committee of Congress in  Washington . The Fed
could slow the pace of its $85 billion of bond purchases in its
“next few meetings,” Bernanke said in the testimony.  Since Bernanke’s comments,  junk bonds  have lost 2.8 percent
to trim gains this year through June 11 to 2.8 percent,
according to the  Bloomberg USD High Yield Corporate Bond Index. (BUHY) 
Second-lien loans gave up 0.3 percent in the same period,
Barclays data show.  “This is a way of getting outperformance on the index if
default rates are low,” Bell said. “If people were worried
about the world, second-liens would have a tougher time.”  ‘Best Terms’  The junior loan borrowings fit in between first-lien loans
and  bonds  in a company’s capital structure. Issuers may have
restrictions in their credit agreements limiting senior ranking
debt and in such cases a second-lien loan may be an option,
according to David Breazzano, president of DDJ Capital
Management LLC, which manages more than $6 billion in below
investment-grade assets.  “Companies want to take advantage of where they can get
the best terms for financing,” he said in a telephone interview
from Waltham,  Massachusetts . “There are cases where a company
looks to split its offerings into multiple tranches to get a
better rate on the overall deal.”  First-lien investors may demand an interest premium to lend
to a borrower whose leverage, or the ratio of debt to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization is too
high, according to Breazzano. An issuer can work around that by
reducing the size of the senior loan and pay a higher rate on a
smaller second-lien piece, which may end up offering a better
overall rate, he said.  Atkins Loan  Atkins Nutritionals borrowed $355 million in the form of a
$100 million second-lien loan that paid interest at 8.5 percent
more than Libor with a 1.25 percent minimum on the lending
benchmark and a $255 million senior loan that paid 5 percent
more than  benchmark  with a similar floor, Bloomberg data show.  Rite Aid lowered the rate on a $500 million second-lien
loan it’s seeking to tender for second-lien notes, according to
a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The debt, due in eight years, will pay interest at 3.88
percentage points more than the Libor, down from 4.25 percentage
points initially proposed, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because terms are private. The lending benchmark will
have a 1 percent minimum.  The company chose loans over issuing new bonds as “the
 term loan  has a more favorable call structure, which gives us
maximum flexibility in our capital structure,” Susan Henderson,
a spokeswoman for  Camp Hill , Pennsylvania-based Rite Aid said in
an e-mail.  Stephanie Walter, a spokeswoman for Denver-based Atkins
Nutritional declined to comment on the company’s financing.  The less liquid securities usually sold in smaller portions
than junk bonds are benefiting from low default rate
expectations and as investors turn to debt that stands to gain
during a period of rising interest rates.  “The demand side of the market remains very strong,”
Invesco’s Baskind said. “More issuance of second-lien debt is a
natural evolution of the supply-demand imbalance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  