-- Rupee Set for Sixth Weekly Loss on Fed Exit Concern; Bonds Fall
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-06-14T04:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/rupee-set-for-sixth-weekly-loss-on-fed-exit-concern-bonds-fall.html
India ’s rupee headed for a sixth
weekly drop, the longest losing streak in a year, on speculation
U.S. policy makers will scale back asset purchases that have
boosted inflows into  emerging markets . Bonds fell on concern a
weaker currency will spur inflation.  The rupee slid to a record low on June 11, before paring
losses as  Fitch Ratings  revised the nation’s credit-rating
outlook to stable from negative a day later and policy makers
took steps to boost dollar supply. India’s inflation rate was
probably above 5 percent in May, Planning Commission Deputy
Chairman  Montek Singh Ahluwalia  told ET Now television channel
yesterday. The median  estimate  of 35 economists in a Bloomberg
survey, before data due today, is for 4.88 percent.  “The rupee’s fall has not been in isolation,” R.
Sivakumar, head of fixed income at Axis Asset Management Co.,
wrote in a research report yesterday. “Rupee weakness increases
the cost of imported commodities and could have an adverse
impact on inflation in the coming months.”  The rupee depreciated 1.4 percent this week to 57.8450 per
dollar as of 9:55 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched an all-time low of 58.9850 on June 11 and
has risen 0.3 percent today. Seven of 11 most-active Asian
currencies weakened against the greenback since June 7.  The yield on the benchmark 8.15 percent government bond due
June 2022 rose 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, this
week to 7.55 percent, according to the central bank’s trading
system. It declined one basis point today.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will keep its benchmark
 repurchase  rate at 7.25 percent at a June 17 review, according
to 13 of 23 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Ten predict a 25
basis point cut.  Fed Stimulus  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 the
monetary authority could scale back stimulus efforts should U.S.
employment show “sustainable improvement.” The $85 billion of
bond purchases each month debases the dollar and contributes to
inflows to emerging markets. The  Federal Open Market Committee 
meets next week.  India’s Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram signaled
yesterday foreign investment caps will be eased further and said
steps are being taken to curb rupee swings. Policy makers are
weighing measures including a debt offering to Indians living
abroad to attract investment and offset a record  current-account 
deficit,  Raghuram Rajan , the top adviser at the  finance
ministry , told reporters on June 11.  Bond Limit  Long-term investors, including sovereign-wealth funds,
multilateral agencies and foreign central banks, can buy $5
billion more Indian sovereign debt, the central bank said in a
June 12 statement. The cap on overseas ownership of government
notes is now $30 billion, compared with $25 billion earlier.
Global funds have sold more rupee debt than they bought each day
since holdings reached a record $38.5 billion on May 21.  The RBI sold dollars on June 11 and 12 to slow the rupee’s
slide, said two people with knowledge of the matter who asked
not to be named because the information isn’t public. One-month
implied volatility in the rupee, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 180 basis points
this week to 10.83 percent.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 1.4 percent from a
week ago to 58.76 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 0.9
percent to 58.78. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets
at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled
in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  