-- Russia Unconvinced by U.S. Claims of Syrian Chemical-Weapons Use
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-06-14T10:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/russia-unconvinced-by-u-s-claims-of-syrian-chemical-weapons-use.html
Russia doesn’t believe U.S. claims
that Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad’s forces have used
chemical weapons in his country’s two-year-old civil war,
President  Vladimir Putin ’s foreign policy aide said.  The information provided to Russia by the U.S. to back up
its assertion is “unconvincing,”  Yuri Ushakov  told reporters
in Moscow today.  The U.S. will supply small arms and ammunition to the
Syrian opposition amid recent battlefield setbacks by rebels and
after saying it confirmed that Assad’s forces used chemical
weapons, according to a U.S. official familiar with the
decision.  Syria  has been embroiled in a conflict since March 2011
that’s evolved into civil war and spilled over Syria’s borders
in recent months. The  United Nations  said yesterday that at
least 93,000 people have been killed and that the real number is
“potentially much higher.”  Russia  and the U.S. have proposed holding an international
peace conference on Syria next month in Geneva. The initiative
will be in doubt if the Obama administration “hardens” its
stance on the conflict and arms the rebels, Ushakov said.  Russia won’t respond to the U.S. move by lifting a freeze
on the supply of S-300 anti-aircraft missiles to Syria, the
presidential foreign-policy adviser said. “We’re not in
competition over Syria,” he said.  Putin said June 4 that his country hadn’t delivered the
missiles to Syria to avoid upsetting the regional balance of
power.  Israel asked Russia to at least suspend the sale “until
the situation in Syria clears up,” Israeli Deputy Foreign
Minister Zeev Elkin said yesterday. The weapons are capable of
shooting down any civilian or military aircraft in  Israel ,
according to Elkin.  Israeli National Security Adviser Yaakov Amidror told
European Union ambassadors his country would prevent the
missiles from becoming operational on Syrian soil if delivered,
Israel’s Haaretz newspaper reported last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  