-- HSBC Said to Hire Barclays's Brazil Equity Sales Chief
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-06-14T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/hsbc-said-to-hire-barclays-s-brazil-equity-sales-chief.html
Ricardo Lanfranchi, head of equity
sales at  Barclays (BARC)  Plc in  Brazil , is leaving to take the same
position at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter.  Lanfranchi, who has been at London-based Barclays since
2009 and helped build the Brazil broker-dealer unit, will move
in a couple of months, the person said, asking not to be
identified because the matter isn’t public yet. He will continue
to work in  Sao Paulo  after joining HSBC, the person said.  Barclays, Britain’s second-largest bank, closed its Brazil
equity-research unit and cut staff amid a global restructuring,
people familiar with the matter said in January. The bank
reduced the size of its equity-trading, fixed-income and
investment-banking business in the country, the people said.  HSBC is investing in Brazil equity sales amid an effort to
expand its investment-banking business in the country, Latin
America’s biggest economy. The London-based bank hasn’t
underwritten any equity deals in Brazil this year and ranked
13th in 2012, according to data complied by Bloomberg. Barclays
has no equity deals this year or last.  Lanfranchi said he couldn’t comment on the matter. Before
Barclays, he spent 12 years with Merrill Lynch & Co. in Brazil,
becoming president of its broker-dealer unit and head of equity
Brazil. He started his career at Banco de Investimentos Garantia
SA, bought by Credit Suisse Group AG in 1998.  An official at HSBC declined to comment on Lanfranchi and
asked not to be identified in keeping with company policy.
 Kerrie Cohen , a spokeswoman for Barclays, also declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  