-- Sears Canada Gains After Selling Toronto Stores
-- B y   L a u r e n   S   M u r p h y
-- 2013-06-14T15:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/sears-canada-gains-after-selling-toronto-stores.html
Sears Canada  Inc., the country’s
second-largest department store chain, had its biggest gain in
more than a year after it raised C$191 million ($188 million)
from the sale of two Toronto-area stores to mall landlords.  Sears Canada rose 12 percent to C$10.60 at 11:22 a.m.
trading in Toronto, the biggest gain since May 23, 2012.  The retailer sold its outlets at Yorkdale Mall and Square
One Shopping Centre to Oxford Property Group and Alberta
Investment Management Corp., the Toronto-based company said in a
statement today. Sears plans to close the stores as early as
March, Oxford said.  The company, controlled by U.S. retailer  Sears Holdings
Corp. (SHLD) , has faced increased competition in the Canadian retail
market with the entrance of U.S. competitors such as  Target
Corp. (TGT)  and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  Seattle-based Nordstrom plans to open
its first Canadian store in Calgary next year, and its first
Toronto-based store in Yorkdale Mall in 2016.  Last year Sears Canada sold three of its western Canada
stores back to its landlord, Cadillac Fairview, for C$171
million in a similar move. Nordstrom will take over all three
vacated stores starting in 2014.  “When transactions such as this become available, we must
evaluate the trading value of a store compared to the value of
the proposal,” Calvin McDonald, president and chief executive
officer of Sears Canada said in the statement.  Blake Hutcheson, CEO of Oxford Properties Group, said the
company hasn’t selected future tenants for the Sears stores.  “They’re sitting on a lot of real estate and obviously
there’s some value there, but it doesn’t appear to be in the
retailing side,” said Joe Cornell of Spin-Off Research, an
analyst group that rates Sears Canada as a sell. “They’re
trying to generate cash from asset sales and spin offs. We’ll
probably see more of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren S Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  