-- Senate Committee Approves $625 Billion Defense Measure
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/senate-committee-approves-625-billion-defense-measure.html
The U.S. Senate Armed Services
Committee approved a $625 billion defense authorization measure
for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, matching the amount
requested by President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  The panel approved the measure yesterday, 23-3, sending it
to the Senate floor.  The bill wouldn’t provide funds for an East Coast missile-defense site to supplement those in Alaska and California,
according to Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads
the committee. House lawmakers have pushed for the added
location, saying it’s needed to defend against an attack by
Iran. Senator Chuck Schumer, a  New York  Democrat, has urged that
interceptors be located in his state.  The bill would authorize the four Littoral Combat Ships
requested by the Navy, two from a group led by  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  and two from a team led by  Austal Ltd. (ASB)   It also approves the Pentagon’s request for 29 F-35 jets
made by Lockheed. Both programs also were included in the
comparable measure that’s now being debated on the House floor.  The Senate committee didn’t authorize funds for continued
upgrades of the M1A2 tank that  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  performs
in Ohio, according to the Levin.  The House Armed Services Committee approved $168 million
for the upgrades, which the Pentagon says aren’t needed. The
push for the money in the House was led by Representative
 Michael Turner , an Ohio Republican.  Sex-Assault Cases  On June 12, Levin’s committee rejected a proposal to remove
prosecution of sex-assault cases and other major crimes from the
military chain of command, siding with Pentagon officials over
victims’ groups.  Rejecting a proposal by Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a New
York Democrat, to turn over such cases to independent military
prosecutors, the committee instead adopted an alternative by
Levin. It would require a high-level review whenever a
commanding officer decides against pursuing prosecution of sex-assault allegations.  The Senate committee plans to release details of its
measure today. Levin didn’t predict when the full Senate will
take up the bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  