-- Siemens Beats Bombardier in $2.5 Billion U.K. Train Order
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-06-14T14:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/siemens-beats-bombardier-in-2-1-billion-u-k-train-order.html
Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest
engineering company, sealed a 1.6 billion-pound ($2.5 billion)
contract to provide carriages for a London rail link, beating
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , which is cutting jobs at its plant in  England .  The order to provide 1,140 new carriages for use on the
Thameslink line will be awarded to a consortium led by Munich-based Siemens, the U.K.’s Department for Transport  said.   The Siemens team was nominated as preferred bidder by the
British government in June 2011 after its financing unit helped
structure the payment of the deal, whereby the U.K. won’t pay
anything upfront. Montreal-based Bombardier said after the
announcement it would cut more than 1,400 jobs at its railcar
plant in Derby, England. Most of Siemens’s rail manufacturing is
in Germany.  “This will be a death blow to Derby’s economy,” Frances O’Grady, the general secretary of the  Trades Union Congress ,
said in an e-mailed statement. “The Bombardier workforce is
loyal, committed and highly productive. It is the exact opposite
of the industrial policy that this country needs.”  Unlike Bombardier, Siemens has its own financing division
which is able to lend money to customers to invest in its
projects and facilitate investment by third parties. The
consortium awarded the contract is called Cross London Trains,
and comprises infrastructure investment groups Innisfree Ltd.
and  3i Infrastructure Plc (3IN) , and Siemens Project Ventures GmbH, a
unit of  Siemens Financial Services .  The project vehicle has financing in place equal to the
full value of the Thameslink contract and is owned in equal
proportions by Siemens, Innisfree and 3i, Moody’s Investors
Service said in a note rating the company’s debt A3 on June 12.
The loans comprise a 225 million-pound facility from the
 European Investment Bank  due 2033 and a 1.36 billion-pound  term
loan  due 2035.  Preferred Bidder  The rolling stock project is part of a 6 billion-pound
upgrade of the Thameslink network, which operates overground
trains from north to south across central London. SFS helped
secure the preferred bidder status by structuring the financing
of the order, the unit’s head Roland Chalons-Browne told
Bloomberg at the time.  Siemens’s earnings have been burdened by charges related to
delayed deliveries of trains to Deutsche Bahn AG, Germany’s
national rail operator. The charges topped 245 million euros
($326 million) in the three months through March.  Siemens has beefed up its U.K. railway assets with the
acquisition of  Invensys Plc (ISYS) ’s signaling business for about $2.8
billion in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  