-- Slovenia Yields Fall From Near-Record Highs on Stimulus
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-06-14T12:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/slovenia-yields-fall-from-near-record-highs-on-stimulus.html
Slovenian borrowing costs fell from
close to a record as higher-yielding European bonds advanced
amid speculation major central banks will maintain stimulus.  The yield on the dollar-denominated securities maturing in
2022 fell 40 basis points from yesterday to 6.033 percent at
1:43 p.m. in Ljubljana, after rising to an all-time high of
6.527 percent on June 11. The yield on the euro-denominated 10-year bond dropped 17 basis points to 6.348 percent.  “The move is driven by external factors, it isn’t a sign
of a change in trend,”  Jaromir Sindel , an economist at Citibank
AS in  Prague , said by phone today. “The next key point will be
the external audit of bank assets, which will determine how much
financing pressure the government will face.”  Bonds in  Europe  advanced today, led by euro-periphery
nations such as Spain and  Italy , amid speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will maintain its program of record easing after the
next week’s policy meeting. The stimulus is helping revive
demand for Slovenian debt, after concern over the Adriatic
country’s banking industry pushed it to the brink of a bailout.  The country, which is battling its second recession since
2009, is pushing for an economic overhaul, including a bank
recapitalization plan, to avoid asking its European Union
partners for help. The European Commission forecasts the economy
will resume growth as late as in 2015.  The Cabinet of Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek last month
sent to the European Commission in Brussels a plan to boost
capital of its banks with about 900 million euros ($1.2 billion)
and repair their balance sheets by transferring bad loans to the
state-owned bank asset management company.  Slovenia also wants to sell some state assets like Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. and Telekom Slovenije as its budget
gap is set to almost double to a 7.9 percent level by year’s
end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  