-- Smith & Wesson Surges Amid Buyback Plan, Profit
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-06-14T20:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/smith-wesson-surges-amid-buyback-plan-profit.html
Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC)  surged
the most in almost five months after announcing a $100 million
stock repurchase plan and reporting preliminary profit that was
higher than analysts had estimated.  The stock rose 5.2 percent to $9.78 at the close in New
York, for the biggest one-day jump since Jan. 16. Smith &
Wesson, the second-largest U.S. gunmaker by market value, has
added 16 percent this year.  Smith & Wesson and competitor  Sturm Ruger & Co. (RGR) , which sell
military-style assault weapons, saw some public pension funds
dump their stocks after a gunman used a similar firearm in the
December shootings in Newtown,  Connecticut . However, Smith &
Wesson has benefited from an increase in demand for weapons
after the killings prompted a gun-control push by the Obama
administration, which fueled better-than-expected quarterly
profit, Wedbush Securities Inc. analyst Rommel Dionisio said.  “What really helped drive the upside in this particular
quarter is that this company ran at manufacturing capacity over
the last few months to better meet this record demand,” he
said.  Investors are also buying following the stock-repurchase
announcement, said Dionisio, who rates the shares the equivalent
of hold.  Profit for the three months ended April 30 was probably 44
cents a share, a record, compared with 27 cents a year earlier,
Springfield, Massachusetts-based Smith & Wesson said in a
statement yesterday after the markets closed. That compared with
an average estimate of 40 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Quarterly Sales  Revenue was $179 million, up about 38 percent from the
year-earlier period. Analysts had projected $170.6 million.  The $100 million repurchase plans replaces a $15 million
program announced in December 2012, according to a separate
statement.  Sturm Ruger, the biggest gunmaker by market value, added
0.9 percent to $46.89, for a 3.3 percent gain this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  