-- SolarCity Rises on Credit Suisse Upgrade: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-06-14T20:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/solarcity-rises-on-credit-suisse-upgrade-san-francisco-mover.html
  SolarCity Corp. (SCTY) , the owner of
rooftop solar plants led by billionaire Elon Musk, climbed the
most in three weeks after analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG
upgraded shares and almost doubled their 12-month price target.  SolarCity rose 6.6 percent to $36.29 at the close in New
York, the most since May 20. The San Mateo, California-based
company’s shares began trading Dec. 13 at $8.  Demand for rooftop power systems in  California , the largest
solar market, will grow, buoyed by support from state regulators
and officials, according to Credit Suisse analysts Satya Kumar,
Brandon Heiken and Patrick Jobin. Governor Jerry Brown has set a
goal of 12 gigawatts of so-called distributed generation by
2020, up from about 1.7 gigawatts today.  Brown “has been a strong proponent of distributed
generation, countering utilities’ opposition,” the analysts
said in a research note today. They raised their rating to the
equivalent of buy and increased SolarCity’s 12-month price
target to $52 from $28.  Distributed-generation systems typically aren’t owned by
utilities and produce power close to where it’s consumed by
homeowners and businesses. Utilities are required under state
regulations to purchase at retail rates any surplus electricity
that’s shipped to the grid. The regulation, known as net
metering, has a 5 gigawatt cap and may expire in 2015.  “We are more comfortable that the CPUC and California
governor will continue to support distributed solar generation
even if the net metering cap is not raised by 2015,” the
analysts said. The California Public Utilities Commission is
appointed by Brown.  Billionaire Musk, 41, is SolarCity’s chairman and largest
shareholder with about 28 percent. He is also chief executive
officer of  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric car company that’s
more than doubled in value this year. SolarCity CEO  Lyndon Rive ,
Musk’s cousin, holds about 3.5 percent of his company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  