-- Sony Opens SmartWatch Insides as Apple, Samsung Devices Loom
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-06-14T07:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/sony-opens-smartwatch-insides-as-apple-samsung-devices-loom.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  has opened the insides of
its SmartWatch in an effort to lure developers and drive
innovation before the potential releases of similar devices by
Apple Inc. and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   Sony is sharing technical details to allow developers to
write their own firmware, or code that is embedded into the
hardware of the watch, the company said on its  website  today.
The timepiece already accepts user-created apps.  “We hope to see even more innovation,” the Tokyo-based
company said on its website. Included in the materials on Sony’s
website is a “SmartWatch hacker guide.”  The move comes amid expectation for surging sales of
watches that perform similar tasks to smartphones as  Apple (AAPL)  and
Samsung chase Sony to develop their wearable devices. About 1.2
million of these digital watches will be sold this year,
generating $370 million in sales, according to an estimate from
 ABI Research . Sales may jump more than 20-fold by 2015, the
research firm forecast in May.  Sony introduced the SmartWatch last year and expects sales
to grow as the company and other developers add to its library
of more than 200 applications, it said in May.  The SmartWatch wirelessly connects to smartphones running
Google Inc.’s Android software with Bluetooth technology and
alerts users to calls. It also connects to Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc. and controls a wearer’s phone-based music library.  Samsung said in March it was developing a wristwatch
similar to a smartphone, and people familiar with Apple’s plans
said in February the company has about 100 product designers
working on a wristwatch-like device.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  