-- Swiss Stocks Little Changed as Investors Weigh U.S. Data
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-06-14T15:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/stocks-in-switzerland-advance-as-richemont-ubs-climb.html
Stocks in Switzerland  were little
changed, with the benchmark Swiss Market Index falling for a
fourth consecutive week, as investors weighed U.S. economic data
amid concern that central banks may pare stimulus measures.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the owner of the Cartier
brand, advanced 2 percent for the best performance on the
benchmark gauge.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Julius Baer  Group Ltd. rose.  Holcim (HOLN) 
Ltd. dropped after the world’s largest cement maker by sales
said it sold its New Caledonia plant to Tokuyama Corp. for an
undisclosed price.  The  SMI (SMI)  added 0.1 percent to 7,635.96 at the close of
trading in Zurich. The equity benchmark fell 1.9 percent this
week, for its longest stretch of losses in 13 months, and has
pared this year’s advance to 12 percent amid concern that the
 Federal Reserve  will start to taper its bond-purchase program in
September. The broader  Swiss Performance Index (SPI)  also gained 0.1
percent today.  “The U.S. economy is progressing, but not to the extent
that it would justify a sudden change of the U.S. central
bank,” Peter Buergler, a trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in
Lucerne, Switzerland, wrote in a report today.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will deliver his
semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress on July 17 and
18. The Fed will hold its two-day policy meeting next week, with
Bernanke scheduled to speak after the central bank’s decision on
June 19.  U.S. Economy  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan June preliminary
index of consumer sentiment fell to 82.7 from a final reading of
84.5 the prior month, missing economist forecasts, a report
showed today.  Other reports showed U.S. industrial production was
unchanged in May and wholesale prices climbed in May for the
first time in three months.  Richemont advanced 2 percent to 83.10 Swiss francs, posting
the best performance on the SMI today.  UBS added 1.2 percent to 16.48 francs. Julius Baer gained 1
percent to 36.81 francs.  Holcim dropped 0.9 percent to 68.15 francs after saying it
sold its New Caledonia plant to Tokuyama for an undisclosed
price as part of a strategy seeking to increase operating profit
by 1.5 billion francs by 2014.  Barry Callebaut  fell 3.4 percent to 862.5 francs as the
supplier to Nestle SA sold new shares to help finance the
acquisition of Petra Foods Ltd.’s cocoa-ingredients unit. The
company sold the shares at 875 francs apiece and raised 279
million francs ($302 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  