-- Stock Rout Threatens $10 Billion Asia IPOs as Suntory Nears
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-06-14T03:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/stock-rout-threatens-10-billion-of-asian-ipos-as-suntory-nears.html
Slumping stock markets are
threatening to disrupt as much as $10 billion of initial public
offerings across  Asia , as companies from Suntory Holdings Ltd.
to  Macau Legend Development Ltd. (1680)  prepare listings.  Companies are gauging demand or taking orders for as much
as $2.5 billion of IPOs in  Southeast Asia  and $2.3 billion of
deals in  Hong Kong , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Suntory is seeking to raise as much as $4.7 billion this month
in  Japan ’s largest first-time share sale since September.  With Asia’s benchmark stock index  wiping out  the year’s
gains, some companies marketing IPOs may be forced to accept
lower valuations or delay listings. Hopewell Hong Kong
Properties Ltd. scrapped a $780 million offering in the city
yesterday while  China  Harmony Auto Holding Ltd. plunged  16
percent (3836)  in the worst Hong Kong debut since February 2012.  “We are going to need some stability in the market to get
a lot of the pipeline done,” said Stuart Mackay, head of  equity
capital markets  for Southeast Asia at UBS AG, in a June 10
interview. “It gets tougher to do deals with the markets moving
around like they have for the last two weeks.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index is down almost 10 percent from
a May 20 high, meeting some investors’ definition of a
correction, while Japan’s stock benchmark has fallen more than
20 percent from recent highs. Gyrating markets are putting an
IPO recovery in Asia at risk. Until now, companies raised $19.3
billion in the region this year, up 17 percent from the same
period last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Suntory’s Debut  The biggest deal under way is the sale of Suntory’s non-alcoholic beverage business, set to be priced on June 24. The
company, Japan’s second-largest drinks maker, will set a  price
range  for the IPO on Monday. Suntory has set a tentative price
of 3,800 yen, according to a May 29 filing.  “Suntory will have to lower the price, and it will carry
out the listing,” said Kazumi Tanaka, an IPO analyst at DZH
Financial Research Inc.  Suntory isn’t considering delaying or scrapping the IPO of
Suntory Beverage & Food, said Tazuko Ikeda, a spokeswoman for
the unit.  Hopewell Hong Kong Properties , the owner of buildings
including Hopewell Centre in Hong Kong’s Wan Chai business area,
was the city’s biggest casualty of an equities selloff since May
2012, when Graff Diamonds Corp. dropped plans for a $1 billion
IPO amid slumping markets.  The company, a unit of Gordon Wu’s Hopewell Holdings, cited
“significant deterioration in  market sentiment ” and “volatile
market conditions” as reasons for pulling the deal.  CAA Resources Ltd., an iron-ore producer in  Malaysia ,
postponed its $80 million IPO in Hong Kong yesterday, according
to an external spokeswoman for the company.  Pushing Ahead  Others are pushing ahead. Nexteer Automotive Corp., the
U.S. auto-parts maker controlled by China’s biggest aerospace
company, started taking orders today for a $325 million IPO in
Hong Kong, according to a term sheet for the deal. The company
plans to start trading on July 3, the terms show.  Macau Legend Development Ltd., the casino operator backed
by former Macau lawmaker David Chow, is proceeding with a sale
that may raise as much as $788 million, people familiar with the
matter said. New World Development Co., the Hong Kong builder
controlled by billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung , is also pushing ahead
with a $700 million IPO of its local hotels, people with
knowledge of the deal said yesterday. Both companies aim to
complete the deals this month.  Budget Carriers  New World Development is gauging investor demand for its
stock and will set a price range on Monday, the people said,
asking not to be identified as the information is private. Macau
Legend is taking orders for shares at a range of HK$2.30 to
HK$2.98 apiece, according to a sale document obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  Philippine Casino operator Travellers International, which
operates Resorts World  Manila , started gauging investor demand
for an IPO yesterday, according to a term sheet obtained by
Bloomberg. The company, a venture of  Alliance Global Group Inc. (AGI) 
and  Genting Hong Kong Ltd. (GENHK) , is seeking as much as 34.8 billion
pesos ($806 million) from the offering in Manila, according to a
regulatory filing last month.  Also in Southeast Asia, budget carriers AirAsia X Bhd. and
Nok Airlines Co. both said this week that they will sell shares
to fund expansion plans. AirAsia X, the long-haul arm of Asia’s
biggest budget carrier AirAsia Bhd., plans to raise as much as
$370 million, while Nok Air, a budget carrier controlled by Thai
Airways International Pcl, is seeking about $106 million.  Southeast Asia  In Singapore, OUE Hospitality Trust is seeking as much as
$709 million, according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg
News on June 10.  Some companies in the region may choose to delay sales
rather than accept lower valuations, said David Gaud, senior
portfolio manager at Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management.  While short-term market swings may complicate companies’
IPO plans, Southeast Asia’s economic growth prospects will
continue to draw investors to deals, said UBS’s Mackay. Rising
consumer spending and investment in countries including the
 Philippines  and  Thailand  have spurred expansion there even as
 China’s economy  cooled.  “You see a medium term story that’s still intact,” Mackay
said. “The pipeline continues to build, continues to be
decent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  