-- Sullivan & Cromwell, Haynes & Boone: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/sullivan-cromwell-haynes-boone-business-of-law.html
Sullivan & Cromwell  LLP and Latham &
Watkins LLP advised  Safeway Inc. (SWY) , the second-largest U.S.
grocery-store chain, on the sale of its Canadian stores to
 Empire Co. (EMP/A) ’s Sobeys Inc. unit for about C$5.8 billion ($5.7
billion) in cash.  Nova Scotia-based Stewart McKelvey served as co-counsel on
the deal.  Sullivan & Cromwell’s New York-based team includes mergers
and acquisitions partner Alexandra D. Korry, corporate partner
Donald R. Crawshaw, and tax partners Ronald Creamer Jr. and
Davis J. Wang.  Latham’s corporate deal team was led by partner Scott Haber
in San Francisco, with partner Thomas E. Keim Jr. in  Chicago .
Latham’s deal team also included partners John Clair advising on
tax matters and Roxanne Christ advising on intellectual
property.  Proceeds from the sale will be used to pay down $2 billion
in debt and buy back stock, Pleasanton, California-based Safeway
said yesterday in a statement. The boards of both companies have
approved the deal.  The sale will give Safeway a jolt of cash as Chief
Executive Officer Robert Edwards, who took over May 14, works to
reverse slowing sales gains amid competition from  Kroger Co. (KR)  and
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  The deal also will simplify Safeway’s
business.  The acquisition will give Sobeys 213 full-service grocery
stores in Western Canada, along with 199 in-store pharmacies and
12 manufacturing facilities, to help it compete better with
 Loblaw Cos. (L)   For more, click here.  Firm News  Linklaters Appoints Vanhulle Managing Partner in Belgium  Linklaters LLP appointed Henk Vanhulle, head of the Belgian
tax practice, to managing partner of its Belgian offices. He
succeeds François De Bauw, who took on the role five years ago
and will now focus on client work full-time.  Vanhulle was previously Linklaters’ global tax practice
head. He specializes in domestic and international corporate
tax, tax litigation and employee share schemes, the firm said.  “These are challenging times for our clients and they are
increasingly looking for high-quality and added-value
services,” Vanhulle said in a statement. “François did a
fantastic job throughout these five years. With a clear strategy
in mind he took up the challenge to shape our Belgian practices
in order to respond to the new market realities.”  Linklaters has lawyers at 28 offices worldwide.  Kilpatrick Townsend Names Silicon Valley Managing Partner  Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP said that Mark Barrish,
who co-leads the firm’s medical and surgical devices industry
area, was named managing partner of the firm’s Silicon Valley
office.  Barrish succeeds Bill Shaffer, who was the Silicon Valley
office managing partner for two years. Shaffer will be
relocating to the firm’s  San Diego  office this summer. He will
continue his practice focusing on patent prosecution and
counseling as a member of the firm’s intellectual property
department.  “Having been with the firm for more than 18 years, I have
seen its footprint grow internationally and I look forward to
continuing to expand our services here in Silicon Valley,”
Barrish said in a statement.  Kilpatrick Townsend has 620 lawyers at 17 offices in the
U.S. and internationally.  Nixon Peabody Names Barron Managing Partner in San Francisco  Anthony Barron was named managing partner of Nixon Peabody
LLP’s  San Francisco  office. He was most recently deputy leader
of the firm’s largest practice, commercial litigation, and will
continue his complex commercial litigation practice.  Barron succeeds Paul Schrier who held the position for
almost seven years and oversaw the addition of more than 70
attorneys from the former Thelen LLP firm. Schrier, a business
and real estate attorney, will continue to focus his practice on
mergers and acquisitions and cross-border transactions in a wide
array of industries.  “Tony has demonstrated strong leadership skills while
building a thriving practice,” Andrew I. Glincher, Nixon
Peabody CEO and managing partner, said in a statement.  Nixon Peabody has about 700 attorneys at offices in the
U.S., Europe, and  Asia .  Moves  Haynes & Boone Hires Liza Mark to Lead New Shanghai Office  Liza Mark, formerly of Dorsey & Whitney LLP, joined Haynes
& Boone LLP and will be the administrative partner in the
recently announced Shanghai office.  She will be a partner in the business transactions
department and co-chair the Haynes & Boone Greater China
practice with Yan Zhang. Zhang, a corporate lawyer in cross-border mergers and acquisitions and venture capital transactions
with a particular focus on China, splits his time between
Shanghai and the Silicon Valley office.  Mark represents foreign and Chinese corporate, private
equity, financial institutions and financial sponsor clients,
including CITIC Securities International Co., Axis Capital
Holdings Ltd., Entropy Ventures Ltd., and CITIC Kazyna
Investment Fund, on cross-border mergers and acquisitions,
corporate governance,  capital markets  and private equity
investment matters. Those include Hong Kong IPOs, Rule 144A
offerings, Asian in-bound equity offerings and private
placements of debt and equity securities, the firm said.  “Liza is an ideal partner to set up our operations now
that we have received the China Ministry of Justice approval to
open our office,” senior partner Tim Powers, who oversees the
firm’s global offices, said in a statement. “Her comprehensive
experience conducting a wide array of cross-border M&A, private
equity investments, capital market transactions and corporate
governance matters is a wonderful asset for us and our clients
in the region.”  The firm plans to bring on additional lawyers with
experience in domestic and cross-border transactions in the
Americas and Greater China.  Haynes and Boone has more than 525 lawyers at 12 offices in
the Americas.  DLA Piper Adds Global Litigation Lawyer in New York  DLA Piper  LLP announced that T. Steven Har has joined the
firm’s Litigation practice as a partner in  New York . Prior to
joining DLA Piper, Har was a partner with Duane Morris LLP.  Har’s practice focuses on product liability, banking, and
general commercial litigation matters, much of which involve
Korean multinational clients doing business in the U.S., the
firm said. He also handles arbitrations before the  International
Chamber of Commerce , the American Arbitration Association and
the Korean Commercial Arbitration Board. Har will work closely
with the products liability and international arbitration
practices at DLA Piper.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in 30 countries in the
Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East.  Litigation  Gene Patents Limited by Top Court in Mixed Ruling for Myriad  The U.S. Supreme Court restricted the ability of companies
to patent human genetic sequences, issuing a mixed ruling in a
case that raised questions about thousands of biotechnology,
agricultural and drug patents.  The justices unanimously ruled that parts of  Myriad
Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ’s patents on genes linked to breast and ovarian
cancer improperly covered natural phenomena. Other parts, the
court said, involve enough human intervention to be eligible for
legal protection.  ACLU lawyer Christopher Hansen challenged Myriad’s patents
in oral arguments before the court April 15, while Myriad’s
lawyer Gregory Castanias, of Jones Day LLP, argued for the
company before the high court.  The decision left both sides of the debate claiming
victory. It forces a change at the federal patent office, which
has been awarding gene patents since 1982. That’s a victory for
doctors’ groups and patient advocates that accused Myriad of
using its patents to block clinical testing and research.  “Because of this ruling, patients will have greater access
to genetic testing and scientists can engage in research on
these genes without fear of being sued,” said Sandra Park, an
attorney with the  American Civil Liberties Union , which sued to
challenge the Myriad patents.  Myriad said in a statement that its tests still are
protected by 24 different patents. The ruling ensures “strong
intellectual property protection for our BRACAnalysis test
moving forward,” Myriad Chief Executive Officer Peter Meldrum
said in a statement.  “This is a win fundamentally” for Myriad, wrote  Michael Yee , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in a note to clients
after the ruling. Potential competitors for Myriad’s main
hereditary breast and ovarian cancer risk test “remain unlikely
to launch,” he said.  Myriad’s critics disputed that assessment. Roger Klein,
chairman of the professional relations committee at the
Association for Molecular Pathology, predicted that Myriad would
face competition within two years.  The decision creates a balance between researchers and
businesses, said  Matthew Dowd  of Wiley Rein in  Washington , who
submitted a brief on behalf of  James Watson , the co-discoverer
of the structure of DNA. Watson, a Nobel Prize winner for his
discovery who helped found the Human  Genome Project , objected to
patenting of the isolated DNA.  “It does free up and ensure the free use of human genes,
which are naturally occurring products,” Dowd said in an
interview. “At the same time, it will probably be viewed as
providing enough incentive for those scientists developing
biotech inventions.”  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad
Genetics, 12-398, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  News  Superman’s Lawyer Carries on Fight to Win Back Rights for Heirs  Marc Toberoff , a tightly wound man with thinning hair and
an expansive grin, is an attorney who specializes in suing movie
studios on behalf of artists and writers,  Bloomberg News ’ Devin
Leonard reports.  For 11 years he has represented the heirs of the late
Jerome Siegel and Joe Shuster, the creators of Superman, in a
campaign to regain the rights to the original superhero from
 Warner Bros .  In 2008, Toberoff won an astounding victory for the
Siegels, granting them 50 percent of Superman as he first
appeared in Action Comics No. 1, meaning they would be entitled
to a percentage of the U.S. profits from the movie “Man of
Steel,” which opens on June 14 and stars the pensive British
actor Henry Cavill. The legal decision meant that the family had
claims to much of the intellectual property defining Superman,
including his blue tights, red cape, secret identity and other
traits.  Toberoff, who is charging the family a 30 percent
contingency fee, was expecting a nice chunk of the profits. And
he hoped to perform the same service for the Shusters. United,
the families would have had the right to block any Superman
movie after “Man of Steel.” But several months ago, Toberoff
suffered some unanticipated reversals. He is shaken but insists
the struggle isn’t over, and he’ll be watching the new big-budget movie to see how closely it adheres to Siegel and
Shuster’s original 1938 conception of the hero.  The battle over the rights to Superman has been going on
for decades, and despite his recent setbacks, Toberoff is
unusually qualified to cause trouble for movie studios. He won a
court order halting the release of Warner Bros.’ “The Dukes of
Hazzard” starring Johnny Knoxville and Jessica Simpson in 2005,
extracting a $17.5 million settlement on behalf of producer
Robert Clark. The judge was unmoved by the studio’s pleas that
the movie had to open in a hurry because Simpson’s allure might
prove transitory.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 