-- Switzerland Favors Move Toward Sharing Bank-Account Data
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-06-14T16:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/swiss-government-panel-recommends-automatic-data-exchange.html
Switzerland  will join the
international push against tax dodgers and help develop global
standards allowing banks to share customers’ details to combat
 tax evasion , its finance minister said.  A group of academics and government officials appointed by
the  finance ministry  recommended in a report today that
Switzerland start to work immediately on developing global
standards for exchanging data within the framework of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Switzerland is trying to shake off its reputation as a tax
haven after amassing $2.2 trillion of assets from wealthy
clients living outside the country. It has faced pressure from
the European Union to join a system of automatic exchange of
bank-account data.  “If this standard is recognized and introduced by other
financial centers, we’re prepared to launch the political
dialogue,” Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said during
a press conference in Bern. “The government has decided that we
want to be part of the discussion -- it’s going to happen
whether we join it or not.”  Adopting the automatic exchange would end the Swiss
tradition of banking secrecy as the government also tries to
resolve a U.S. probe of at least 14 financial firms, including
Credit Suisse Group AG and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , which
allegedly helped Americans dodge taxes.  ‘Detailed Discussions’  The Swiss government will hold “detailed discussions” on
the recommendations in coming months, said Widmer-Schlumpf, who
earlier this year said there should be a level playing field
among the world’s financial centers. A change of Swiss law could
face a national referendum.  Martin Naville, Chief Executive Officer of the Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce, said adopting the proposal  would
not mean the end of the Swiss banking sector, while it would
have some economic impact. Switzerland’s political stability and
rule of law, among other factors, would keep its banks
attractive for international clients, he said.  “There are a lot of things that still make Switzerland a
great place,” he said in a phone interview.  Switzerland is the world’s biggest offshore wealth
management center, according to Boston Consulting Group Inc.’s
Global Wealth 2012 report.  The OECD framework should include trusts, the group led by
Professor Aymo Brunetti said in the report. Other members of the
panel include Jean-Pierre Danthine, vice-chairman of the  Swiss
National Bank , and Urs Zulauf, deputy director of Switzerland’s
financial markets supervisor known as Finma.  EU Initiative  The  Swiss Bankers Association  welcomed the report, saying
it envisages a strategy similar to its own of “tax compliance
for the future coupled with a fair and reasonable settlement for
the past,” according to an e-mailed statement.  Dividends,  capital gains  and other forms of financial
income should be subject to automatic exchange of information
among tax authorities beginning in 2015, the European Commission
said June 12. The Brussels-based commission aims to combine the
new proposals with an existing effort to update tax-data sharing
on interest from  savings accounts .  If approved by member nations, the combination would
rewrite bank secrecy laws across the 27-nation bloc to make it
harder to dodge cross-border taxes, said European Union Tax
Commissioner Algirdas Semeta, who will meet Widmer-Schlumpf in
Bern on Monday.  Money Laundering  Switzerland still can enter into individual withholding tax
agreements as it has done with the U.K. and  Austria , according
to the Brunetti report. Those accords have retained an element
of bank secrecy by not disclosing client names.  Switzerland is revising  anti- money laundering  regulations
to include serious tax crimes and tightening client due
diligence requirements to meet international standards
recommended by the international Financial Action Task Force.
The government has separately proposed a “clean-money”
strategy after a global crackdown on tax evasion using offshore
bank accounts in Switzerland.  That strategy has worthy aims but it poses considerable
“practical problems” and may make the Swiss financial industry
less competitive versus other countries with weaker rules,
Nicolas Pictet, chairman of the Swiss Private Bankers
Association, said at an annual members’ meeting on June 7.  Swiss banks lobbied against a government proposal last year
that would have required them to reject deposits from clients
who don’t disclose the origin of their funds and attest to their
tax compliance. The banks said that would have scared off
millionaire customers and threatened jobs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  