-- U.K. House Prices Rise to Record as Mortgages Loosen: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-06-14T11:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/u-k-house-prices-rise-to-record-as-mortgages-loosen-economy.html
House prices in England and Wales
increased to a record in May as government measures to ease
credit strains improved the  availability of mortgages .  The average cost of a home rose 0.4 percent from April to
233,061 pounds ($365,000), Acadametrics and  LSL Property
Services Plc (LSL)  said in a monthly report published in London today.
Prices were up 2.7 percent from a year earlier.  The government has offered assistance to prospective home
buyers and cheap finance to banks to aid the property market.
Critics of the latest initiative, designed to help people
struggling to raise a deposit, say the plan risks fueling
another property bubble.  Government efforts “have acted like a steroid injection
for the mortgage market and made it markedly stronger than last
year,” David Brown, commercial director of LSL Property
Services, said in the report. “The only real solution is a
sustained improvement in the wider economy which will help
increase the supply of mortgage finance and improve demand.”  Seven of the 10 regions tracked by Acadametrics showed an
average annual increase over the last three months, led by a
10.1 percent pickup in London.  Wales  had the biggest drop of
three regions showing declines, at 1.3 percent. The average
price was 151,821 pounds, down 10.8 percent from a peak reached
in October 2007.  North/South Divide  A “North/South” divide in property prices persisted as
foreign purchasers continue to be drawn to London while other
parts of the country suffer from government spending cuts, the
report said.  “The red hot London market is giving the property market
as a whole a deceptively healthy glow,” Brown said.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne and Bank of
England Governor Mervyn King last year announced a Funding for
Lending plan to give banks that improve lending cheap access to
finance. Data so far show that net lending still hasn’t turned
positive, though some mortgage rates have dropped.  “More needs to be achieved to help banks lend to new
buyers, as a strong improvement in first-time buyer lending is
the crucial catalyst for a full market recovery,” Brown said.  Bank of England policy maker Ian McCafferty said today that
the FLS should help to ease funding strains. He also said that
the Monetary Policy Committee should decide whether to
accommodate a consumer-price shock from a drop in the pound
based on the reasons for the move in the currency.  Price Stability  Were the pound to fall due to “concerns about the MPC’s
commitment to price stability, resulting in an increase in
inflation expectations, then I strongly believe that the case
for accommodation would be much weaker,” he said in a speech in
 London  today. Were the decline to reflect real factors such as
rebalancing, “it would not be sensible to prevent the real
adjustment by tightening monetary policy.”  In the euro area, data confirmed an acceleration in
inflation last month, with annual consumer price growth at 1.4
percent in May, up from 1.2 percent in April. Euro-zone
employment declined 0.5 percent in the first quarter from the
prior three months, when it fell 0.3 percent, a separate
report showed.  The Japanese central-bank minutes showed that policy makers
discussed volatility in the government-bond market, with one
board member saying that the BOJ could help to restore stability
by indicating it planned a two-year limit for its unprecedented
monetary easing program.  The U.S. will today release data on industrial production,
producer prices and the current account. Output in the U.S. rose
0.2 percent last month from April, a Federal Reserve report may
show, following a 0.5 percent decline the previous month,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  