-- U.S. Net Outflow of Long-Term Securities Rises to $37.3 Billion
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-06-14T13:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/u-s-net-outflow-of-long-term-securities-rises-to-37-3-billion.html
Foreign sales of U.S. long-term
securities outpaced U.S. purchases of such assets abroad in
April as private investors overseas sold a record amount of
Treasury bonds and notes, a government report showed.  The net long-term portfolio investment outflow for the
month was $37.3 billion after a revised decline of $13.4 billion
the prior month, the Treasury Department said in a statement
today in  Washington . U.S. residents bought a net $12.6 billion
in foreign long-term securities, while investors abroad were net
sellers of $24.8 billion of U.S. long-term securities, the
report showed.  The report showed that investors may have been encouraged
by a global economic recovery to take more risks. Cypriot
President Nicos Anastasiades agreed on March 25 to a 10 billion-euro ($13.3 billion) loan from the euro area and the
 International Monetary Fund  in return for measures including a
tax on bank deposits of more than 100,000 euros at the country’s
two biggest banks as well as wage and pension cuts and the sale
of assets and gold.  “The successful resolution of the  crisis in Cyprus  helped
to further support U.S. purchases of foreign assets, with lower
yields continuing to drive buyers abroad in search for higher
returns,” Gennadiy Goldberg, U.S. strategist at TD Securities
Inc. in  New York .  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps, the
total cross-border inflow was $12.7 billion in April, compared
with a $2.1 billion gain the prior month, the report showed.  Net selling of Treasury bonds and notes by private
investors was a record $30.8 billion, the department said, while
net sales by official entities of long-term Treasuries totaled
$23.7 billion.  China stayed the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in April even after its holdings fell $5.4 billion to $1.26
trillion, according to the Treasury.  Japan , the second-largest
holder, lowered its holdings by $14 billion to $1.1 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  