-- U.S. House Passes $638 Billion Defense Policy Measure
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-06-14T17:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/u-s-house-passes-638-billion-defense-policy-measure.html
The U.S. House passed a defense
policy bill for the 2014 fiscal year that would authorize $638
billion in discretionary, mandatory and war spending by the
Defense Department and related agencies.  Under the measure, which passed 315-108, the Pentagon would
be permitted to spend more on weapons systems, would be given
new requirements for prosecuting sexual assaults and would
impose restrictions on closing the detention facility at the
U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  During the floor debate over the bill, H.R. 1960, the House
plowed through 172 amendments. Among those adopted was one by
Representative Jackie Walorski, an Indiana Republican, that
would bar use of federal funds for the transfer of detainees
from Guantanamo Bay to Yemen. Lawmakers rejected a proposal by
Representative  Adam Smith , a Washington Democrat, that would
have barred funding after 2014 for the operation of the
Guantanamo Bay facility.  The House rejected language sought by some lawmakers and
victims-rights groups that would have allowed military personnel
who were victims of sexual assaults to go outside the chain of
command to independent military prosecutors.  Instead, the bill calls for a study of the role of
commanding officers in administering military justice. Also,
victims of sexual assaults would be permitted to request a
transfer to a new unit or location and would have access to
military lawyers trained to handle sexual assault cases.  Information Technology  The House adopted a proposal by Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, that would overhaul federal rules
and standards for acquiring  information technology . The
amendment would require the appointment of a chief information
officer for certain agencies. One provision would require
analyses to identify and eliminate duplicative contracts.  Also adopted was an amendment by Representative Phil Gingrey, a Georgia Republican, stating that it’s the sense of
Congress that members of the military who live or work in the
 District of Columbia  should be exempt from the city’s firearm
restrictions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  