-- U.S. Stocks Drop for Week as Investors Await Fed Signals
-- B y   K a t i e   B r e n n a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-06-14T22:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/u-s-stocks-drop-for-week-as-investors-await-fed-signals.html
U.S. stocks  fell for the week,
sending benchmark indexes lower for the third time in four
weeks, as investors speculated whether the Federal Reserve will
signal a reduction of stimulus efforts after its next meeting.  Financials fell the most out of 10 groups in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, declining 2.1 percent.  American Express Co. (AXP) 
sank 6.5 percent after Barclays Plc lowered its rating on the
credit-card issuer. Lululemon Athletica Inc. tumbled 19 percent
after announcing Chief Executive Officer Christine Day will
leave the company. Gannett Co., the publisher of USA Today,
jumped 20 percent after agreeing to buy Belo Corp.  The S&P 500 lost 1 percent to 1,626.73 for the week. The
benchmark equity gauge declined for four out of the five days,
trimming its gains for the year to 14 percent. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average decreased 177.94 points, or 1.2 percent, to
15,070.18.  “We’ve had a good year so far and we’re now waiting for
the Fed’s response,” David Kelly, the chief global strategist
at JPMorgan Funds in New York, said by telephone. His firm
oversees about $400 billion in mutual funds. “People have
latched onto this theme of whether the Fed will stop being easy
and what that means for interest rates. I don’t think that’s a
significant negative for the stock market and the market may be
overreacting.”  The Fed will hold its two-day policy meeting June 18 and
19, with Chairman Ben S. Bernanke scheduled to speak after the
central bank’s decision. Investors are watching for signs on
whether the Federal Open Market Committee will trim its pace of
$85 billion in monthly asset purchases and maintain record-low
interest rates.  Japan Stimulus  Equities fell during the week as the International Monetary
Fund cut its outlook for U.S. growth in 2014 to 2.7 percent from
3 percent. Stocks also slid as Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko
Kuroda said he sees no need to expand monetary stimulus
immediately.  U.S. economic data showed initial jobless claims declined
in the previous week and sales at retailers rose in May.
 Consumer confidence  in June eased from a six-year high and U.S.
industrial production was unchanged in May, reports showed.  Stimulus from the Fed and better-than-forecast  earnings 
have propelled the bull market in U.S. stocks into a fifth year
and driven the  S&P 500 (SPX)  up 140 percent from a 12-year low in
2009. The gauge has fallen 2.5 percent from its record high on
May 21, the day before Bernanke suggested the central bank could
curtail its bond purchases, known as quantitative easing, if the
economy improved in a “real and sustainable way.”  ‘Escape Velocity’  “It’s a little disconcerting that the market has to depend
on the Fed for its success right now,” Bruce Bittles, the chief
investment strategist at Milwaukee-based RW Baird & Co., which
oversees about $100 billion, said by phone. “Economic data
hasn’t caused me to believe that the economy is set on escape
velocity.”  Concerns over economic growth and the pace of central-bank
bond buying have led to widening swings in U.S. shares. The
 Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX) , or VIX, rallied
13 percent to 17.15 for the week. The index, a benchmark gauge
for American stock options, is down 4.8 percent this year.  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  tumbled 2.3 percent for the week, as 22
of its  24 lenders  declined. Citigroup Inc., the third-largest
U.S. bank by assets, sank 4.6 percent to $49.22.  American Express slipped 6.5 percent, its biggest decline
in more than a year, to $72.97. Barclays lowered its rating on
the biggest credit-card issuer by purchases to equal-weight from
overweight, saying the stock’s  valuation  could fall on “soft”
revenue trends that could crimp earnings growth.  Cooler Weather  DuPont Co. fell 5 percent to $52.68. The country’s largest
chemicals producer said its per-share  operating profit  will drop
about 10 percent in the first half from a year earlier as
wetter, cooler weather hurts its agriculture and nutrition and
health units.  Energy stocks tumbled 1.7 percent and technology companies
erased 1.5 percent as a group. Microsoft Corp., the world’s
largest software maker, lost 3.6 percent to $34.40.  Lululemon (LULU)  plunged 19 percent to $66.15 after saying Day
will step down once a replacement is found. Sales have tripled
in the past three years and the shares had risen more than
fivefold since June 27, 2008, the day before she became CEO of
the Canadian yogawear retailer. Day’s reputation took a hit
earlier this year when the Vancouver-based company was forced to
recall pants that became transparent when wearers bent over.  Gannett, Safeway  Gannett surged 20 percent to $24.99. The McLean, Virginia-based company agreed to buy Belo for about $1.5 billion. The
 acquisition  will make Gannett the fourth-largest owner of
network affiliates, almost doubling the number of TV stations to
43 from 23 and reducing its dependence on its shrinking
newspaper business.  Belo jumped 21 percent to $14.01.  Safeway Inc. rose 7.3 percent to $24.36 after agreeing to
sell its Canadian stores to Empire Co.’s Sobeys Inc. unit for
about C$5.8 billion ($5.7 billion). The second-largest U.S.
grocery-store chain will use proceeds from the sale to pay down
$2 billion in debt and buy back stock.  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  rose 10 percent to $7.65. Deutsche Bank AG
upgraded the stock to buy from hold, citing optimism that
increasing use of the company’s mobile application can boost
sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Brennan in New York at 
 kbrennan23@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  