-- Lufthansa Maintenance Arm Seeking Out Discount Carriers
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-06-14T12:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/lufthansa-maintenance-arm-seeking-out-discount-carriers.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s maintenance
arm said it’s increasingly targeting contracts with low-cost
carriers as collapses and consolidation erode its traditional
customer base.  Lufthansa Technik is “very eager” for more discount clients
to add to Budapest-based Wizz Air Ltd.,  Norwegian Air Shuttle (NAS) 
ASA and  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s top no-frills operator,
Chief Executive Officer August Wilhelm Henningsen said.  “The structure of the market is changing,” Henningsen said
at a press briefing in Hamburg, where Lufthansa Technik is
based. “In the past we made a living on many small and medium-sized airlines, but the Malevs and Spanairs are vanishing.”  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is hurting network airlines
still struggling after the global recession, with casualties
including Technik clients Spanair of Barcelona and Malev Zrt.,
the Hungarian flag carrier, which collapsed in the first quarter
last year. LOT Polish Airlines SA is currently for sale, while
Scandinavian governments may seek bids for tri-national SAS AB.  Lufthansa Technik also serves discount carriers including
Bangkok-based Nok Airlines, Peach Aviation Ltd of Japan, Go
Airlines India Pvt. Ltd. and Mexico’s Volaris Airlines.  The business competes mainly with SR Technics Switzerland
AG, once part of the defunct Swissair and now owned by Abu
Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co., together with the maintenance
arms of  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest airline, and
Israel Aerospace Industries Ltd.  EasyJet Loss  While Lufthansa Technik provides engine-wash services for
Luton, England-based  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-biggest low-cost carrier last year terminated a maintenance contract in
Switzerland, prompting the closure of a site in  Basel .  The bulk of EasyJet’s fleet is serviced by SR Technics,
while the contract with Ryanair currently covers only Charleroi
in  Belgium , with the Dublin-based company meeting most of its
maintenance requirements at in-house hangars.  Lufthansa Technik is a more stable earnings contributor
than the group’s airline operations, where demand varies with
the European economy, contributing an operating profit of 81
million euros ($108 million) in the first quarter, the most
among five major units. Henningsen expects annual earnings to
remain stable following a record 12-month result in 2012.  The division isn’t being spared in an ongoing efficiency
drive at  Europe ’s second-biggest carrier, having being set a
contribution of 110 million euros toward a targeted 1.5 billion
euro profit-gain by 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  