-- Hungary Rejects Democracy Criticism as Commission Meets
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-06-14T11:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/hungary-rejects-democracy-criticism-as-commission-meets.html
Hungary ’s government rejected
criticism of its new constitution even before European legal
experts met today to approve an opinion that the European Union
executive said Prime Minister Viktor Orban must respect.  The government published a 17-page rebuttal of what it said
was a draft report by the Venice Commission, an independent
advisory body on constitutional matters of the 47-nation  Council
of Europe . The commission meets today in Venice,  Italy , to adopt
an opinion on Hungary.  The European Commission, the EU executive, is stepping up
pressure on Orban’s consolidation of power, calling on the
government to heed its warnings about the erosion of the rule of
law. European Commission President Jose Barroso “expects that
the Hungarian authorities will take due account of” the  Venice 
Commission’s “opinion and address it in full accordance with
both European Union and Council of Europe principles, rules and
values,” the EU executive said April 12.  The Venice Commission’s draft was based on “unfounded
claims” and reached “disproportionately severe conclusions”
about “the state of the independence of the judiciary, the
constitutional review and the constitutional checks and balances
in Hungary,” according to the government statement, which asked
for a “fundamental” revision of the opinion.  Orban has asserted his influence over independent Hungarian
institutions since winning elections in 2010, drawing criticism
from the EU, the U.S. and the United Nations. His lawmakers
passed a new constitution over opposition protests, ousted the
chief justice of the Supreme Court and set up a media regulator
led by ruling-party appointees.  Family Definition  The EU’s focus and the subject of the Venice Commission’s
report is the fourth amendment to the constitution, approved in
March, which curtailed judicial authority, limited campaign ads
in private media, restricted the definition of a family to
marriage and allowed the criminalization of homeless people who
live on the streets. The Constitutional Court had vetoed these
in past decisions.  The move underscored concern for the rule of law and checks
and balances in Hungary, where Orban has wielded a two-thirds
parliamentary majority since 2010. The European Commission has
said it would start infringement procedures against Hungary
“where relevant” to rein in the country while the foreign
ministers of  Germany ,  Denmark ,  Finland  and the Netherlands in
March pushed to impose EU funding cuts on member states that
violate the bloc’s democratic values.  ‘Abusing Power’  The EU “is abusing its power and is asking of us things it
doesn’t have the right to ask and expects of us things it
doesn’t expect of others,” Orban said in an MR1 state radio
interview today.  Still, the government has moved to partially address the
EU’s concerns by submitting to parliament a fifth amendment to
the constitution that would revoke the right of the National
Judicial Agency president to reassign court cases. It would also
delete a constitution passage about the levying of extraordinary
taxes in case of unfavorable court rulings. Hungary is sticking
to its ban on election ads in private media, over EU concerns.  The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, of
which Hungary is a member, will meet on the week of June 24 to
consider starting a monitoring procedure on Hungary’s adherence
to the organization’s values, according to Panos Kakaviatos, a
spokesman of the Strasbourg-based organization. If approved, it
would be the first time such monitoring would be initiated
against an EU member.  “The Venice Commission’s opinion will be taken into
account by the assembly on whether or not to formally launch a
monitoring procedure against Hungary,” Kakaviatos said by phone
today.  The Strasbourg-based Council of Europe is an inter-governmental organization that promotes democratic values and
monitors human rights and the rule of law in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  