-- Erdogan Puts Park Plans on Hold Saying Message Received
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   B e n   H o l l a n d
-- 2013-06-14T19:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/turkey-to-await-court-ruling-on-park-as-erdogan-meets-protesters.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  delivered his most conciliatory speech since anti-government demonstrations began two weeks ago, saying plans to
develop an Istanbul park are on hold and the message from
protesters has been received.  Erdogan said there’ll be no redevelopment of Gezi Park in
Taksim Square, where protesters have been gathered for more than
two weeks, until a court rules on the issue, and after that only
if the plan is approved in a public vote. Speaking at a meeting
with officials from his party in Ankara, the premier urged the
demonstrators to leave today, saying that would enable police to
tackle “illegal groups” that have become involved.  The unrest has presented Erdogan with one of his biggest
challenges since he took office more than 10 years ago, as
protesters denounce what they say is the pro-Islamist leader’s
autocratic style. The spectacle of tens of thousands marching in
Istanbul and the capital Ankara, and police using tear gas,
water cannons and truncheons against them, has battered Turkish
stocks and bonds.  Markets revived today, extending a rally since June 11 when
police moved back into Taksim and clashed with protesters. The
benchmark  stock index  added 4.4 percent at 5 p.m. in Istanbul,
paring its loss this month to 7.3 percent. Yields on two-year
 lira bonds  dropped 53 basis points to 6.21 percent, and the lira
rallied 0.5 percent against the dollar.  ‘Room for Dialogue’  Erdogan met late yesterday for four hours with a group
including two representatives of Taksim Solidarity, which has
spoken on behalf of the protesters who have filled Istanbul’s
central square for the past two weeks, the official Anatolia
News Agency said. It was Erdogan’s first contact with the
Solidarity group since the protests escalated on May 31 and
spread to other cities.  In  Washington  today, Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay said “police made some mistakes” in their reaction to
peaceful protesters, which are being investigated.  Atalay, speaking through a translator at a conference
sponsored by Middle East Institute, contrasted what he called
“peaceful, innocent” protesters with “environmental
sensitivities,” with “radicals” and “extreme nationalists”
who he said hijacked the protests in an effort to discredit
Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party, or AKP.  Atalay said Erdogan’s talks with the protesters “signal
the end of those protests,” adding that the government “will
be studying the lessons very carefully.”  News Coverage  The deputy prime minister also criticized international
news coverage comparing the protests with the Arab Spring
uprisings, saying that attitude reflected “a campaign against
all the achievements of the past decade.”  The government says it wants to reconstruct an Ottoman-era
barracks near Gezi Park, as well as a new opera house in Taksim
as part of plans to make the square pedestrian-friendly. An
Istanbul court order on June 1 stopped construction of a
sidewalk around the park.  The government’s commitments so far “do not include the
protesters’ main demand of an official cancellation of plans
regarding the future of Gezi Park,” Ibrahim Aksoy, an economist
at Seker Invest in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note earlier
today after Cabinet spokesman Huseyin Celik signaled Erdogan’s
plans. “Yet we find the recent meeting positive as it shows
that there is still room for dialogue.”  Taksim Solidarity will announce its decision about the
protest at a press conference tomorrow morning, CNN Turk said.  Alcohol Curbs  At least four people have died in clashes since May 31. The
 Turkish Medical Association  says almost 7,500 have sought
medical treatment.  The demonstrators say Erdogan’s Islamist-rooted government
has been emboldened by three successive electoral victories to
ignore the views of more secular-oriented Turks who didn’t vote
for them. They cite measures including curbs on alcohol and an
increase in religious teaching at schools.  Celik said investigations have started into the use of
excessive force against protesters, and offenders will be
punished according to the law.  Seventy people were taken to court in Istanbul today after
they were detained for throwing Molotov cocktails and stones at
police, the official Anatolia news agency said.  Erdogan said his  Justice and Development Party  will go
ahead with rallies planned this weekend in Ankara and Istanbul,
after opposition parties had called for their cancellation to
avoid fueling tensions. He said they’ll mark the start of
campaigning for the March local elections.  The premier attacked the opposition for failing to speak
out against the damage wreaked by protesters, and the European
Union for criticizing the police response. He said police in
European countries and the U.S. have carried out more violent
crackdowns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  