-- Vivendi Pursues Etisalat Talks as Qtel Withdraws Maroc Bid
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-06-14T18:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/vivendi-pursues-etisalat-talks-over-maroc-after-qtel-drops-out.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  is in talks to sell its
stake in Maroc Telecom SA to  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) 
after Qatar Telecom QSC withdrew its offer.  Qatar Telecom, which sells its products under the brand
name Ooredoo, is withdrawing its offer because of “a lengthy
process,” it said today in an e-mailed statement.  Negotiations with Etisalat, as  Emirates Telecommunications 
is known, are moving forward, according to two people with
knowledge of the talks. While the two sides are optimistic an
agreement will be reached, they aren’t yet close to signing a
final deal, one of the people said.  Both Etisalat and Ooredoo made binding offers in April to
buy Vivendi’s 53 percent stake in the Moroccan phone company.
Vivendi’s share has a market value of 46 billion dirhams ($5.5
billion). Vivendi is targeting a completion of the stake sale by
October, people familiar with the matter have said.  While Vivendi wants as much as 5 billion euros ($6.7
billion) for the holding, according to one person briefed on the
matter, a more realistic target would be in the range of 4
billion euros to 4.5 billion euros, two other people with
knowledge of the sale have said.  Completing the sale of Maroc Telecom also means getting the
government of  Morocco , the unit’s second-largest shareholder
after Vivendi, on board for a transaction.  ‘Lengthy Process’  A Paris-based Vivendi representative declined to comment on
the process. Ahmed Bin Ali, Etisalat’s senior vice president of
corporate communications, declined to comment in an e-mail.  “Although Maroc Telecom represents a good fit for our
global portfolio, it is no longer in the best interests of our
shareholders to continue to commit capital to what has become a
lengthy process,” Ooredoo Chief Executive Officer Nasser Marafih said in the statement.  Completing the sale of Maroc Telecom will help Vivendi
Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou show investors he can close asset
sales. Attempts to divest Brazilian Internet operator GVT and a
stake in game publisher Activision Blizzard Inc. failed because
of valuation differences or insufficient interest, leading the
73-year-old Frenchman to renew his pledge to undertake a full
strategy review of Vivendi.  Divert Attention  The Maroc Telecom stake sale is also likely to divert
attention from Vivendi’s biggest unit, SFR, also its largest
contributor to group sales and profits. The French phone company
is trying to fend off low-cost offers by Iliad SA as price wars
enter their second year in the French wireless services market.
Fourtou has said reinforcing business at SFR is the first step
to a possible initial public offering of it.  The French conglomerate also owns music company Universal
Music Group Inc. and French pay-television company Canal Plus.  Shares of Vivendi climbed as high as 17.44 euros in January
since CEO Jean-Bernard Levy was ousted in June 2012, though they
have since pared their gains. The stock has gained about 7
percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  