-- Wal-Mart Board Votes Cash Lead Director to Replace Breyer
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-06-15T14:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/wal-mart-board-votes-james-cash-lead-director-to-replace-breyer.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s board voted
to appoint James Cash Jr. as its new lead independent director,
said  David Tovar , a company spokesman.  Cash, 65, an emeritus professor at  Harvard University , has
been on Wal-Mart’s board since 2006. He replaces former lead
director James Breyer, 51, who wasn’t renominated this year
because he rotated off the board in accordance with its
governance guidelines, the company has said. The board voted
before the world’s biggest retailer held its annual meeting on
June 7, Tovar said yesterday in an e-mail. Samuel Robson “Rob” Walton, 68, remains chairman, Tovar said.  Wal-Mart Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  and two other
directors received less than 90 percent of shareholders’ votes
last week at the company’s annual meeting amid probes of bribery
allegations abroad. Wal-Mart and regulators are investigating
claims that executives in Mexico paid more than $24 million in
bribes to speed expansion there. Operations in Brazil, India and
China also are being probed.  Cash has served on the Bentonville, Arkansas-based
company’s audit committee, including at the time of the alleged
bribery, and on its Technology and eCommerce Committee.  Shareholder advisory firm Glass Lewis & Co. had recommended
voting against Cash in its 2013 proxy report on Wal-Mart, citing
the bribery allegations against executives in Mexico. The U.S.
Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission
are investigating the allegations.  Duke received 87.9 percent of votes for re-election,
Chairman Rob Walton got 89.9 percent and audit committee
Chairman  Chris Williams  got 87.8 percent, the company said in a
statement. Cash received 96.8 percent.  While the percentage of votes in favor of Duke, Walton and
Williams were higher than at the previous annual meeting, all
three had received 99 percent or more of the vote before last
year, when the bribery allegations came to light.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  