-- Walter Cancels Plan to Refinance $1.55 Billion of Debt
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-06-14T20:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/walter-declines-after-forbes-says-1-55-billion-loan-canceled.html
Walter Energy Corp. (WLT) , a U.S. miner of
coal used in steelmaking, canceled a plan to refinance $1.55
billion of loans as yields on bonds from the riskiest to the
most creditworthy borrowers in the U.S. reached a 10-month high.  Walter had explored options including a new secured term
loan facility, a new revolving credit facility and unsecured
debt financing, the Birmingham, Alabama-based company said in a
statement today.  The company said it has no material debt principal payments
due until 2015 and doesn’t need incremental funding right now.
The shares earlier  dropped  as much as 20 percent to $11.76 in
New York, the biggest intraday decline since August 2011, before
being halted after Forbes reported the decision.  Walter joins Odebrecht SA, the Brazilian construction and
engineering firm, and U.S. candle producer Yankee Candle Co. in
terminating or delaying bond sales this week because of market
conditions.  Yields on bonds from the riskiest to the most creditworthy
borrowers in the U.S. reached 3.91 percent yesterday, the
highest since August, and up from a record-low 3.35 percent on
May 2, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate & High Yield index.  Metallurgical coal prices have dropped as miners haven’t
cut output quickly enough to match falling demand. Prices no
longer cover cash production costs, even for mining companies
considered to be low-cost producers, Mitesh Thakkar, an analyst
at  FBR & Co. (FBRC)  In Arlington,  Virginia , wrote in a note yesterday.  ‘Challenging’ Markets  “While met markets have been challenging for marginal
assets, we now believe that spot met prices have fallen to a
level where they no longer cover full cash costs (including
attributable corporate expenses) even for some of the low-cost
producers,” Thakkar said.  Walter investors rejected five nominees to its board
proposed by activist shareholder Audley Capital Advisors LLP on
April 25. Audley had called on the mining company to reduce debt
and corporate expenses to boost profit. It was the second
attempt by London-based Audley’s co-founder and Managing Partner
Julian Treger to compel change at Walter, which has posted two
consecutive quarterly losses and seen its shares drop 65 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  