-- West Fraser Gaining as Building Revives: Corporate Canada
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/west-fraser-gaining-as-building-revives-corporate-canada.html
West Fraser Timber Co. (WFT) , North
America’s largest lumber producer, is forecast to surpass the
record it touched in April as analysts look beyond a slump in
wood prices to focus on the recovering U.S. housing industry.  The shares, which climbed 75 percent in the year through
yesterday, will gain an additional 20 percent to C$98.71
($97.20) a share, according to the average of seven analysts’
 12-month price targets  compiled by Bloomberg.  While lumber futures have plunged as much as 32 percent
since reaching an eight-year high on March 13, analysts’ price
targets for West Fraser have barely budged, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The reasons for optimism include rising
U.S. new-home sales, which probably are about a third of the way
to a “normalized” level, and long-term lumber demand from
 China , said Paul Quinn, a Vancouver-based analyst at RBC Capital
Markets who has a C$100 price target on West Fraser.  “For all those people who thought they missed this cycle,
they haven’t,” Quinn, who this week raised his rating on the
stock to the equivalent of a buy from hold, said in a telephone
interview. “If this was a baseball game, we’re in the third
inning of the housing recovery.”  That view is shared by West Fraser Chief Executive Officer
Ted Seraphim, who said his evaluation is based on other economic
indicators including home affordability and historically low
interest rates.  ‘Recovering U.S.’  “It’s all against a backdrop of a relatively slowly
recovering U.S. economy,” Seraphim said in a June 3 interview
at West Fraser’s downtown Vancouver headquarters.  New-home  sales  in April climbed to an annual pace of
454,000, the second-highest in almost five years, the U.S.
Commerce Department said May 23. The annual pace peaked at a
record 1.39 million in July 2005, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Part of the reason for the steep decline in lumber prices
this year was that they rose too quickly late in 2012 and into
the first quarter, said West Fraser Chief Financial Officer
Larry Hughes.  In January, blogs about the lumber industry “were full of
fear of shortages,” Hughes said in the June 3 interview.  Rail Constraints  Futures soared to a closing high of $406.80 per 1,000 board
feet in March after a shortage of railway cars crimped Canadian
exports in January and February, Hughes said. Lumber prices
plunged through May as the rail constraints were resolved and
producers such as West Fraser increased U.S.-bound shipments, he
said.  About 52 percent of British Columbia’s softwood-lumber
exports were shipped to the U.S. last year and 31 percent went
to China, according to  government data . A decade earlier, 83
percent of B.C. exports were shipped to the U.S. and 0.5 percent
went to China.  B.C. softwood-lumber shipments to the U.S. soared by 45
percent in April from a year earlier, while exports to China
were little changed, according to provincial data.  RBC’s Quinn said he remains optimistic about the long-term
outlook for lumber demand from China, one of the fastest-growing
markets for the province’s wood products in recent years, and
points to production constraints in B.C. because of the impact
of the world’s largest infestation of mountain pine beetles.  Quinn expects the average cash price of benchmark western
lumber to rise to $350 per 1,000 board feet this year from $299
last year.  Declining Prices  Lumber futures for September delivery fell 2.4 percent to
$289.10 per 1,000 board feet yesterday on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. The price has declined 23 percent this year after
climbing 44 percent in 2012.  West Fraser closed yesterday in Toronto at C$82.30, down
from a record C$92.70 on April 25. Crosstown competitor  Canfor
Corp. (CFP)  has fallen 16 percent to C$18.29 since reaching a record
of C$21.89 on March 20 and has an average price target of
C$22.46. Both companies this year have outperformed the Standard
& Poor’s/TSX Composite Index and the S&P/TSX Materials Index.  Not all industry observers are as confident about the
outlook for housing in the U.S. Housing starts dropped a
greater-than-expected 16.5 percent in April to an annual pace of
853,000, the Commerce Department reported on May 16.  ‘More Deeply’  Lumber prices have fallen “more deeply than anticipated,
suggesting that the reality of the U.S. housing recovery is
somewhat different from the hype and excitement,” David Elstone, a Gibsons, British Columbia-based lumber-industry
analyst at ERA Equity Research Associates Inc., said in a June
11 phone interview.  “Lumber demand is up, but maybe not as much as some other
people expected,” Elstone said.  U.S. housing starts  in May are estimated to have risen to
an annual rate of 950,000, according to the average of 24
economists and forecasters surveyed by Bloomberg. Starts reached
an annual pace of 2.27 million in January 2006,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show. The May housing data is scheduled to be released
June 18.  West Fraser’s Hughes said the company is unfazed by what he
believes are short-term changes in housing construction activity
and lumber demand.  “We’ve seen a correction in lumber prices and share prices
and that’s nothing that we think is unusual,” Hughes said.
“We’ve been saying pricing would be saw-toothed as demand moves
up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  