-- What FDR Hated About Glass-Steagall
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P e r i n o
-- 2013-06-14T23:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/what-fdr-hated-about-glass-steagall.html
President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  set
the standard for the first 100 days in office with an
unprecedented whirlwind of legislative activity that sought to
make good on his pledge for “action and action now” to combat
the Great Depression.  June 16 marks the 80th anniversary of that era, which came
to a close when Roosevelt signed the  Banking Act of 1933 . That
groundbreaking financial reform is more commonly known for its
Democratic co-sponsors, Senator Carter Glass of  Virginia  and
Representative Henry Steagall of  Alabama . These days, it is
mostly remembered for just one of its provisions, the separation
of commercial and investment banking, designed to wall off
customer deposits from the risk-taking inherent in securities
underwriting.  The debate over the 1999 repeal of that reform still rages.
Yet in 1933, the most controversial feature of Glass-Steagall
was the creation of federal deposit insurance, which has been
wildly successful and has virtually eliminated the repeated bank
runs that swept the country in the decades before the bill’s
passage. Even the ardent free-marketeer  Milton Friedman  called
it “the most important structural change in the banking system”
of the New Deal.  Roosevelt Reversal  Deposit insurance remains one of the Roosevelt
administration’s signature accomplishments. Yet FDR adamantly
opposed the provision almost until the day he signed it into law
because he thought it was unworkable and might impose crippling
liabilities on the federal government.  Superficially, this seems to have been an instance of
classic Rooseveltian deal-making: The president agreed to a more
limited insurance provision than originally proposed as the
price for passage of the rest of Glass-Steagall. A closer look,
however, suggests that Roosevelt was forced to bend to the very
political forces that he had helped to unleash.  When Roosevelt was sworn in on March 4, 1933, the financial
system was on the verge of collapse. Banks had been battered for
weeks by waves of runs sparked by Michigan Governor  William
Comstock’s decision  to declare a statewide banking holiday and
fueled by a Senate investigation of shady financial practices
led by former prosecutor  Ferdinand Pecora .  By Inauguration Day, 38 of 48 states had shut all their
banks, and withdrawals were sharply curtailed everywhere else.
The president’s  inaugural address  captured the country’s anger.
The assembled crowd largely ignored Roosevelt’s admonition that
“the only thing we have to fear is fear itself.” Instead, he
received his first sustained applause when he proclaimed: “The
money changers have fled from their high seats in the temple of
our civilization. We may now restore that temple to the ancient
truths.”  The first step was to bolster confidence in the financial
system. The president declared a nationwide bank holiday. The
legislation he pushed through Congress in just a matter of days
permitted only “sound” banks to reopen. The  Federal Reserve 
became the lender of last resort for those banks, with the
Treasury agreeing to indemnify the central bank for any losses.
That amounted to de facto deposit insurance. As Vice President
John Nance Garner told Roosevelt: “You’ll have to have it,
Cap’n. The people who have taken their money out of the banks
are not going to put it back without some guarantee.”  In his  first fireside chat , on March 12, 1933, Roosevelt
assured Americans “that it is safer to keep your money in a
reopened bank than under the mattress.” Mostly, the president’s
calm, patrician voice projected confidence as he exhorted
Americans to “have faith.” They did. Money flowed back into the
banks, the crisis passed, and Roosevelt was lauded for his swift
and sure-handed response.  Banking Reform  The  emergency legislation  was just the start. Glass and
Steagall quickly re-introduced their banking reform legislation,
which had been stalled in Congress for years. At Steagall’s
insistence, the House bill included a deposit-insurance
provision. It was hardly novel: Over the previous five decades,
150 bills containing such proposals were introduced in Congress,
and all had failed. The debate in 1933 reprised the objections
that killed earlier plans -- large banks argued that they would
be forced to prop up small, weak ones, thereby creating
disincentives for prudent management.  Despite the implicit guarantees in the emergency banking
legislation and his support for most of Glass-Steagall,
Roosevelt had no interest in backing a full-blown insurance
program for  bank deposits , and he told reporters that he would
veto any legislation that contained one.  Glass was equally opposed to Steagall’s plan. Roosevelt
probably thought that he and Glass could strip the offending
provision out of the final bill, and reiterated his continued
opposition throughout the spring.  It was a risky game: Even as Roosevelt threatened to veto
deposit insurance, he was also stoking public outrage,
maintaining political pressure so he could push through the
other reforms. The president secretly urged Pecora to subpoena
private bankers, especially the partners of the powerful  J.P.
Morgan and Co .  In May and June, the final debates over Glass-Steagall
coincided with the media onslaught surrounding the Pecora
hearings, where more disclosures of unseemly banking practices
emerged, intensifying public outrage at banks and increasing
support for deposit insurance. Thousands of letters and
telegrams, many from depositors at failed banks, implored
lawmakers to pass a guarantee.  That was when Glass switched sides. He urged the president
not to veto the bill, fearing that opposition from bankers would
only harden, possibly killing the other reforms and leading to
another disastrous round of  bank failures . Roosevelt caved. He
wrangled some changes (graduating coverage for larger deposits
and delaying implementation), and on June 16, 1933, he signed
Glass-Steagall into law.  ( Michael Perino  teaches at St. John’s Law School and is the
author of “The Hellhound of  Wall Street : How Ferdinand Pecora’s
Investigation of the Great Crash Forever Changed American
Finance.”)  Read more from  Echoes  online.  To contact the writer of this post:
Michael Perino at  perinom@stjohns.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  