-- Wheat Traders Most Bearish Since at Least November on Production
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-06-14T06:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/wheat-traders-most-bearish-since-at-least-november-on-production.html
Wheat traders are the most bearish
since at least November as the outlook for bigger harvests in
the  Black Sea region ,  Australia  and Europe is raising
competition for export markets and sending prices lower.  Eighteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect wheat to
fall next week, while seven were bullish and a further two were
neutral. A majority of traders in the survey are predicting
lower prices for a second week.  The world’s farmers will harvest 696.9 million metric tons
of wheat in 2013-14, up 6.1 percent from the previous season and
close to the 2011-12 record, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
forecasts. The  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization
predicts output will rise to a record.  “For next season, if you want wheat you’ll find it pretty
much anywhere,” said Clement Gautier, a wheat analyst at
Horizon Soft Commodities in Noisy le Grand,  France . “That’s why
the market is under pressure. There will certainly be strong
competition among the various exporting countries.”  Wheat for July delivery traded at $6.835 a bushel in
 Chicago , headed for its second weekly drop. The grain has
slumped 12 percent this year.  Ukraine plans to export 8 million to 9 million tons of
wheat in the 2013-14 season, the country’s agriculture minister
said yesterday. That would be up from 7 million tons in 2012-13,
based on USDA estimates.  Australia, Germany  Australia this week forecast the 2013 wheat crop will rise
to 25.4 million tons from 22.1 million tons collected in the
previous season, lifting the outlook from 24.9 million tons in
March after rains boosted soil moisture. Germany’s crop may gain
7.3 percent to 24 million tons, farm industry group Deutscher
Raiffeisenverband e.V. forecast, 500,000 tons above a May
estimate.  The wheat market is facing a “bearish” summer and autumn
on increased supply from the Black Sea region and as importers
including  Morocco  harvest a bigger domestic crop, Francois Luguenot, head of market analysis at French grain cooperative
Union InVivo, said this week.  “Harvests are good in the exporting countries, and as some
importers also have good potential, that suggests a possible
decline in demand,” Gautier said. “Fundamentally, the trend is
bearish.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  