-- Williams Chemical Plant Closed as Second Worker Dies
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-06-14T20:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/williams-says-it-doesn-t-know-when-blast-hit-plant-will-restart.html
Williams Cos. (WMB) , a U.S. operator of
gas and oil pipelines, said it doesn’t know when its Geismar,
Louisiana, chemical plant will resume production as a second
worker died from yesterday’s explosion and fire.  The Tulsa, Oklahoma-based company hasn’t yet re-entered the
plant to assess the damage and begin an investigation into the
cause of the accident, Larry Bayer, the facility’s manager, said
today at a news conference.  Scott Thrower, 47, a supervisor of operations who joined
the company in 1999, died today, Williams said in a  statement  on
its website. Zachary Green, a 29-year-old operations technician
who started working for Williams in October, died at the plant
yesterday, Bayer said. One employee and four contractors remain
hospitalized, the company said.  “This is a tremendous tragedy for all of us at Williams,”
Chief Executive Officer Alan Armstrong said at the news
conference.  The Geismar facility made about 1.3 billion pounds (590
million kilograms) a year of ethylene, equal to 2 percent of
U.S. production capacity for the colorless gas used in plastics
and antifreeze.  The explosion involved propane and propylene and occurred
in the propylene fractionation unit, Bayer said. The blaze that
followed was extinguished at 2 p.m. local time yesterday and
investigators are waiting for flammable gases to disperse before
entering the site, he said.  Ethylene Margins  Propane is a natural gas liquid that is converted through
heat, pressure and catalysts into ethylene and propylene. As
well as ethylene, the Geismar plant makes 90 million pounds a
year of polymer-grade propylene, used in plastics and textiles.  Williams sold its stake in the facility for $2.26 billion
last year to  Williams Partners LP (WPZ) , a partnership it controls.
The plant’s customers include BASF SE and Total SA, Bayer said.  “While we do not know the financial impact yet from the
explosion we expect it will be significant,” Stifel, Nicolaus &
Co. analysts led by Selman Akyol wrote today in a note, cutting
its rating on Williams Partners to hold from buy. “Ethylene
margins had been relatively strong.”  Williams Cos. dropped 1.2 percent to $33.31 at the close in
New York and Williams Partners fell 1.2 percent to $47.83.  The plant had 839 people on site at the time of the
explosion, which is more than normal because of an expansion
project, Bayer said.  Company Probe  Seventy-seven people were seen at emergency rooms,
including 15 that were treated for burns, Christina Stephens, a
spokeswoman for the Louisiana Department of Health & Hospitals,
said in an e-mail yesterday. Some were treated for cardiac and
respiratory issues and blunt trauma, she said.  Williams will share the results of its investigation with
the rest of the industry to help prevent such incidents in the
future, according to Armstrong.  Environmental Protection Agency employees are at the scene
and are coordinating with local and state responders, the agency
said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  