-- Korea’s Won Rises Most in Two Months on U.S. Data; Bonds Advance
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-06-14T06:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/won-rises-most-in-8-weeks-as-u-s-data-boost-outlook-bonds-gain.html
South  Korea ’s won rose the most in
two months as Asian equities rebounded after gains in U.S.
retail sales and jobs data bolstered the outlook for the world’s
largest economy.  Government bonds  advanced.  The currency pared its weekly loss after South Korea’s
benchmark Kospi Index of stocks snapped a three-day decline and
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained. Sales at U.S. retailers rose
more than forecast in May, and firings waned last week, official
reports in  Washington  showed yesterday. Korean stocks offer
better value than Japanese shares, Credit Suisse Group AG wrote
in a note today.  “Better-than-expected U.S. retail sales added confidence
in the global economic recovery,” said Jeon Seung Ji, an
analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “There are
expectations that the recent pullout from emerging-market
equities will abate.”  The won rose 0.7 percent to 1,126.25 per dollar in Seoul,
the biggest gain since April 15, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency weakened 0.8 percent this week. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, fell 51 basis points, or
0.51 percentage point, to 10.48 percent. It rose 96 basis points
this week, the data show.  Return on equity is 8.6 percent in South Korea and 6.1
percent in  Japan , based on price-to-book and a yen that’s
defying expectations for depreciation, Credit Suisse strategists
including Sakthi Siva, a Singapore-based analyst, said in a
note.  ‘Contain Volatility’  The won touched a two-month low of 1,136.55 per dollar
yesterday amid speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will taper
stimulus that has boosted supply of the greenback amid signs
that the world’s largest economy is recovering. Overseas
investors sold more Korean shares than they bought for a sixth
day, adding to $2.77 billion of net sales this month through
yesterday, exchange data show.  South Korea must watch global financial markets and be
ready to act with flexibility to contain excessive volatility in
foreign-exchange markets and capital flows, central bank
Governor Kim Choong Soo said in a speech today. The  Bank of
Korea  yesterday left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at
2.50 percent after unexpectedly cutting borrowing costs by a
quarter of a percentage point in May.  The yield on the 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due March
2018 fell six basis points to 2.98 percent, the biggest drop
since May 2, prices from Korea Exchange Inc. show. It rose six
basis points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  