-- Woods Plays Through Elbow Injury to Stay in U.S. Open Contention
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-06-15T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/woods-plays-through-elbow-injury-to-stay-in-u-s-open-contention.html
Tiger Woods , bothered by an elbow
injury, is 3 over par heading into today’s third round of the
U.S. Open, four shots behind leaders  Phil Mickelson  and Billy
Horschel as he continues his quest for his next major title.  Woods, a three-time U.S. Open winner whose last major
victory came five years ago at the 2008 event, shot rounds of 73
and even-par 70 at Merion Golf Club in Ardmore, Pennsylvania.  The 37-year-old Woods played 25 holes yesterday after two
rain delays on the tournament’s opening day forced 78 of 156
golfers in the field to finish their first 18 holes a day later
than scheduled.  “It takes its toll on you,” Woods told reporters. “It’s
long days. I played well. I just made a couple of mistakes out
there, but it was a pretty good day.”  Mickelson, a five-time U.S. Open runner-up, and Horschel,
who earned his first U.S. PGA Tour victory in April in  New
Orleans , are at 1 under. Mickelson holed a birdie putt from
about 25 feet on the 18th green moments after a horn sounded to
stop play due to darkness. Players have the option to finish the
hole.  Mickelson and Horschel are the only players under par for
the tournament, which was halted with 68 players yet to finish
their second rounds. Second-round play will conclude this
morning before third-round play begins.  Over his opening 36 holes, Woods shook his left arm and
clenched his teeth in pain on numerous occasions after hitting
pitch shots out of the thick, damp 5-inch rough lining Merion’s
fairways.  He offered little explanation for the injury, saying he
tweaked his arm during the  Players Championship  in May. He
declined to be more specific, saying only that the injury
happened while playing in “one of the rounds.”  Strained Elbow  While Woods remained mum, PGA Tour player Notah Begay,
Woods’s former teammate at  Stanford University , said he was
suffering from a strained elbow. Woods attempted to reduce
swelling in his elbow with ice and some electric stimulation
treatment after the opening day, Begay said on NBC’s broadcast.  Woods has dealt with injuries in previous U.S. Opens, most
notably when a left knee injury hampered him during the 2008
event at  Torrey Pines  in  San Diego . That year, a limping Woods
went on to defeat  Rocco Mediate  in a 19-hole playoff, giving him
the most recent of his major titles.  Although Woods was limping and his pain was clearly visible
during the 2008 event, he deflected questions about the injury
throughout the week. He has taken the same approach at Merion
when queried about his wrist.  “Pain,” he said when asked about what was making him
wince. “But it is what it is and you move on.”  A left wrist injury, suffered while trying to hack a shot
out of long grass, forced Woods to withdraw from the 1995 U.S.
Open at  New York ’s Shinnecock Hills Golf Club after just five
holes.  Lunch Break  After a brief break to eat lunch following the completion
of the remaining seven holes of his opening round, Woods began
his second round yesterday on the course’s 11th hole and had two
bogeys and a birdie through the first eight holes to fall back
to 4 over. He cut into his deficit with birdies on the course’s
par-4 second and fourth holes to reach 2 over for the
tournament.  Woods avoided a potential bogey on the fifth when he rolled
in a curling 15-foot par-saving putt, only to bogey the 363-yard
seventh hole when his chip shot from just off the green came up
five feet short of the hole.  “It’s one of those shots where you’re either going to flub
it or you’re going to hit it 20 feet past,” Woods said of his
failed chip. “I got a big chunk and the golf ball didn’t go
anywhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Ardmore,  Pennsylvania  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  