-- WTI Trades Near Three-Week High on Signs of U.S. Growth
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-06-14T11:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/wti-crude-trades-near-three-week-high-on-u-s-economic-outlook.html
West Texas Intermediate climbed to
its highest intraday level in 10 weeks on signs of economic
recovery in the U.S., the world’s largest consumer of crude, and
concern that Middle East exports may be disrupted.  WTI advanced to the highest since April 2 and is set for a
second weekly gain. U.S. retail sales rose the most in three
months in May, while jobless claims dropped last week, data
yesterday show. Iranians go to the polls today to select a
replacement for President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad . The U.S. will
provide small arms and ammunition to the Syrian opposition after
saying that President Bashar al-Assad’s forces used chemical
weapons, said an official familiar with the decision.  “The U.S. recovery has been consistent for a while now,”
said Guy Wolf, global head of market analytics at Marex Spectron
Group in London. “It’s not booming, but it is sustained. Oil
prices are reasonably well supported at these levels. However,
markets have been wedded to stimulus for some time now.”  WTI for July delivery climbed as much as 61 cents to $97.30
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $97.04 as of 11:58 a.m.  London  time. The
volume of all futures traded was 3 percent above the 100-day
average. The contract gained 81 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $96.69
yesterday, the highest settlement since May 20. Prices are up 1
percent this week.  Brent for August settlement was up 35 cents at $105.30 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $8.01 to WTI for
the same month. The July North Sea contract expired yesterday.  Syrian Aid  President  Barack Obama  is authorizing lethal military aid
to rebel groups in  Syria  under a classified order instructing
the Central Intelligence Agency to arrange delivery of the
weapons, according to a U.S. official familiar with the decision
who asked not to be identified discussing the move. Assad has
received support from allies including  Iran , holder of the
world’s fourth-largest oil reserves.  Opinion polls show Iranian voters want a presidential
candidate who will secure an end to the sanctions imposed to
halt the country’s nuclear program. The U.S. and  Israel  say the
Persian Gulf nation is secretly pursuing an atomic weapons
capability, while Iran says the program is for civilian energy
and medical research.  Iran Embargo  Iran, sixth-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, gets most of its revenue from oil
sales. Diminished exports due to the embargo cost the country $3
billion to $5 billion a month, Wendy Sherman, U.S.
Undersecretary of State for political affairs, told the Senate
Banking Committee in testimony June 4.  The U.S. tightened sanctions against the Islamic republic
on Dec. 31, 2011. Iran’s crude production dropped to  2.5 million
barrels  a day last month, down from 3.58 million in December
2011, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Oil prices  rose yesterday after Commerce Department figures
showed U.S. retail sales climbed 0.6 percent last month,
following a 0.1 percent increase in April. The number of claims
for jobless benefits fell by 12,000 to 334,000 in the week ended
June 8, the Labor Department reported.  WTI may drop next week amid  rising  U.S. crude supplies and
speculation that the Fed may curb its program of bond purchases,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. Eighteen of 33 analysts
and traders, or 55 percent, forecast that prices will fall
through June 21. Seven respondents, or 21 percent, predicted an
increase. Eight projected no change. Crude inventories increased
by 2.52 million barrels last week, Energy Information
Administration data published June 12.  “Demand is fairly weak, so any supply disruptions that
we’ve seen haven’t helped tighten the market,” Amrita Sen,
chief oil market analyst at London-based consulting company
Energy Aspects Ltd., said in interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  