-- Yingli Unit to Halt Dividend and Slow Investment to Repay Debt
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-14T05:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/yingli-unit-to-halt-dividend-and-slow-investment-to-repay-debt.html
Yingli Energy ( China ) Co., a unit of
the world’s largest solar-panel maker, said it will stop paying
a dividend and slow investments to clear debt after facing anti-dumping duties in  Europe .  The unit of  Yingli Green Energy Holding (YGE)  Co., which reported
seven straight quarters of losses, has 3.27 billion  yuan  ($34.4
million) left of a combined credit line of 13.3 billion yuan,
Yingli Energy said yesterday in a statement on the website of
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The European Union on June 5 imposed tariffs of 11.8
percent on panels from China for allegedly selling them in the
27-nation bloc at less than cost. The rate is scheduled to rise
to an average of 47.6 percent should Chinese and EU officials
fail to reach a consensus.  More than 100 Chinese solar companies, including Baoding-based Yingli and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , whose main market is Europe,
are facing anti-dumping duties. Solar-panel prices declined last
year because of a supply glut and weak demand.  Yingli Energy said it’s reducing its reliance on the
European market, which accounted for about 54 percent of total
sales in the first five months, compared with 62 percent last
year.  The company said its capital and cash flow have “obviously
improved” since the first quarter as prices rebounded and gross
margins started to recover. Gross margin shows how much a
company earned after paying production expenses, employee
salaries and plant utility bills.  Yingli Energy expects its gross margin to widen to 11
percent in the second quarter from 4 percent in the first three
months even after the EU’s initial import tariffs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  