-- Myriad, Hot Topic, Apple, Del’s: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-06-14T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-14/myriad-hot-topic-apple-del-s-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. Supreme Court restricted
the ability of companies to patent human genetic sequences,
issuing a mixed ruling in a case that raised questions about
thousands of biotechnology, agricultural and drug patents.  The justices unanimously ruled that parts of  Myriad
Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ’s patents on genes linked to breast and ovarian
cancer improperly covered natural phenomena. Other parts, the
court said, involve enough human intervention to be eligible for
legal protection.  The decision left both sides of the debate claiming
victory. It forces a change at the federal patent office, which
has been awarding gene patents since 1982. That’s a victory for
doctors’ groups and patient advocates that accused Myriad of
using its patents to block clinical testing and research.  Myriad said in a statement that its tests still are
protected by 24 different patents. The ruling ensures “strong
intellectual property protection for our BRACAnalysis test
moving forward,” Myriad Chief Executive Officer Peter Meldrum
said in a statement.  Myriad’s critics disputed that assessment. Roger Klein,
chairman of the professional relations committee at the
Association for Molecular Pathology, predicted that Myriad would
face competition within two years.  Biotechnology, agriculture and drug industries backed
Myriad in the case, telling the court that gene patents have led
to valuable treatments. The decision will have implications for
the growing field of personalized medicine and efforts to map
the human brain and discover new uses for embryonic stem cells.  The decision creates a balance between researchers and
businesses, said Matthew Dowd of Wiley Rein in  Washington , who
submitted a brief on behalf of James Watson, the co-discoverer
of the structure of DNA. Watson, a Nobel Prize winner for his
discovery who helped found the Human Genome Project, objected to
patenting of the isolated DNA.  The dispute came to the court in an emotionally charged
package, with patient advocates accusing Myriad of standing in
the way of breast cancer diagnosis and treatment. The company at
one point demanded that the University of Pennsylvania stop
clinical testing of cancer patients.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit largely
sided with Myriad, saying isolated DNA could be patented.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad
Genetics, 12-398.  Cypress Says It Will Return to Courts in Patent Fight With GSI  Cypress Semiconductor Corp. (CY)  said that even after an adverse
ruling from the International Trade Commission June 7 it will
continue to defend four disputed patents in two infringement
cases pending in federal court.  The Washington-based ITC, which has the power to exclude
imports that infringe U.S. patents, said that  GSI (GSIT)  didn’t
infringe the patents.  The dispute is over static random-access memory chips
produced by Sunnyvale, California-based GSI. Cypress, of San
Jose,  California , sought to halt the importation of the chips
and devices that contain them.  One case is Cypress Semiconductor Corp. v. GSI Technology
Inc., 11-cv-00789, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota
(Minneapolis). The other case is Cypress Semiconductor Corp. v.
GSI Technology Inc., 13-cv-02013, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Francisco).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Joan Jett Sues Hot Topic Claiming Blackheart Infringement  Rock star Joan Jett’s Blackheart Records Group Inc. sued
mall-based retailer Hot Topic Inc. for trademark infringement,
claiming the chain is selling its own line of women’s clothing
under the Blackheart brand.  Blackheart, named for Jett’s band, said in a filing dated
June 12 in  Manhattan  federal court that consumers would be
confused by the apparel now being sold by the retailer under
that name.  According to the complaint, Hot Topic approached Blackheart
in February 2010 to design and distribute clothing and other
merchandise featuring the brand. Hot Topic later announced its
“new test retail concept, Blackheart.” The clothing company,
based in City of Industry, California, said in a statement in
March that it operates five Blackheart stores.  “After experimenting with legitimate and illegitimate
items that use and or are sold under the Blackheart family of
marks, defendants commenced their own line of clothing under
their own new Blackheart brand,” according to the filing.  Jett formed the all-female band the Runaways in 1973 at the
age of 15. In the late 1970s, she and Kenneth Laguna started
Joan Jett & the Blackhearts, which had a chart-topping hit with
“I Love Rock ‘n Roll.’’ They formed Blackheart Records to
market music and other merchandise. Blackheart received a
federally registered trademark in 1985, according to the suit.  The case is Blackheart Records Group Inc. v. Hot Topic
Inc., 13-cv-04054, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Rhode Island Lemonade Chain Claims Virginia Store Infringes Mark  Deb’s Frozen Lemonade, a small mother-daughter operation in
 Virginia ’s Roanoke Valley, received a cease-and-desist letter
from legal counsel for a Rhode Island-based lemonade chain, the
Roanoke Times  reported .  Del’s , of Cranston, Rhode Island, claimed that the Virginia
business is infringing the chain’s trademarks, according to the
newspaper.  Del’s, which has franchise operations in 13 states, said
the public is likely to be confused by the name similarity and
that litigation could ensue if the name isn’t changed, according
to the Times.  The letter from Del’s lawyers made reference to  Deb’s page 
on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social-media site, and owners of the Virginia
store said they believe this is how their 36-year-old business
came to the chain’s attention, the Times reported.  North American Breweries, West 6th Settle Trademark Suit  North American Breweries Inc.’s Independent Brewers United
trademark lawsuit against a  Kentucky  craft brewery has settled,
according to a joint  statement  from the two companies.  West Sixth Brewing Co.  said the suit, filed May 16 in
federal court in Lexington, Kentucky, claimed its label
infringed the trademarks for North American’s Magic Hat
Brewing’s Magic Hat Beer.  The Kentucky brewery had asked its customers to petition
Rochester, New York-based North American to drop the suit.  According to the statement, the parties ‘‘addressed the
issues in the lawsuit in a manner that eliminates potential
confusion about product origin and resolves the lawsuit in a
mutually acceptable way.”  No details of the settlement were released and the two
companies said in their statement that they will no longer
discuss the issues in public.  The case is Magic Hat IP LLC v. West Sixth Brewing Co., 13-cv-00136, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Kentucky
(Lexington).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Apple’s Eddy Cue Says He Didn’t Know of Publisher Communications  Eddy Cue, the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  executive the government claims
was the “chief ringleader” of a scheme to fix e-book prices,
said he was unaware that publishing chief executive officers
were talking with one another during six weeks of intense
negotiations with Apple.  Cue, 48, took the stand yesterday in the Justice
Department’s civil antitrust case against Cupertino, California-based Apple, which is on trial in federal court in Manhattan.
Cue testified that he didn’t know about any of the e-mails and
more than 100 phone calls involving the chief executive officers
of five of the biggest U.S. book publishers in late 2009 and
early 2010.  Cue said he “struggled and fought” with the publishers,
in individual talks before the introduction of the iPad, to get
them to sign contracts to sell e-books on Apple’s iBookstore.
Cue testified it’s his opinion the CEOs weren’t coordinating
over their negotiations with Apple.  The government claims Cue led a conspiracy by the
publishers to raise prices and pressure  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the
biggest e-book seller, to abandon its practice of selling
electronic versions of best-selling books for $9.99, at a loss.  Apple denies it conspired to fix prices and is fighting the
case, which U.S. District Judge Denise Cote will decide without
a jury.  The government claims Apple got the publishers to force
Amazon and other e-book retailers to switch from a wholesale
pricing model, under which the retailers set prices, to a
“agency” pricing, which allowed the publishers to set the
prices.  Apple’s contracts with the publishers gave Apple 30 percent
of the retail price. A so-called “most-favored nation,” or
MFN, clause in the contract allowed it to match low prices set
by other e-book sellers.  Five publishers signed agency contracts with Apple:
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan unit,  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster,  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Book Group,
 Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit and News Corp.’s HarperCollins. All
five settled with the government, avoiding trial.  A sixth publisher, Random House Inc., didn’t sign an agency
agreement with Apple and isn’t involved in the U.S. suit.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  U.K. Newspaper Charity Licensing Discount Too Small, Critic Says  The U.K.’s  Newspaper Licensing Agency , which licenses the
use of newspaper content, said it will extend a discount on
licensing fees to charities, the Third Sector news website
 reported .  Vicky Browning, representative of  CharityComms , a
professional organization for charity communications workers,
said the discount wasn’t big enough and the fees are a burden on
many U.K. charities, according to Third Sector.  She said that the fees are typically 1 pound ($1.57) for
each article that is copied, and some of the U.K.’s largest
charities are hit with licensing costs in excess of 10,000
pounds, Third Sector reported.  She said her organization believes that charities should be
exempt from such licensing fees, according to Third Sector.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 