-- Abbott Gathers Support to Scrap Carbon Pricing, Mining Tax
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-10-05T03:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/abbott-gathers-support-to-scrap-carbon-pricing-mining-tax.html
Australian Prime Minister  Tony Abbott 
will get enough support from minor parties to pass legislation
repealing the country’s carbon-price mechanism and mining-profits tax, the Australian newspaper reported.  To deliver election pledges to scrap the charges enacted by
the previous Labor government, Abbott needs the support of at
least six senators outside his Liberal-National  coalition . Three
legislators from the Palmer United Party and three others from
minor parties will vote with the coalition to repeal the levies
in  Australia ’s Senate, the paper reported today.  “We are a libertarian party, we’ll support any move to
lower taxes,” Liberal Democratic Party Senator-elect David
Leyonhjelm said by phone. Abbott should win backing to repeal
the levies, Leyonhjelm said, adding he had not discussed voting
intentions with other incoming senators.  Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition, which won a majority
in Australia’s lower house in a Sept. 7 election, is set to hold
33 of the 76 seats in the upper house when the new Senate forms
on July 1, according to the Australian  Electoral Commission .  The new leader has pledged to dismantle Australia’s carbon
pricing, which charges more than 300 of the country’s largest
emitters, and instead spend A$2.9 billion ($2.7 billion) on
incentives to curb emissions. A 30 percent tax on coal and iron
ore profits, which Abbott is also seeking to remove, was
forecast to raise A$4.4 billion in the four years to June 30,
2017, the Treasury said in August.  Mining Magnate  The Democratic Labour Party will support repeal, President
Paul Funnell said by phone, after the Australian reported party
Senator John Madigan would back the move. The Palmer United
Party, formed six months ago by mining magnate  Clive Palmer , is
on course to win three seats and has previously said it will
support Abbott’s plans.  Family First Senator-elect Bob Day, who told the Australian
he’d vote in line with the Coalition, didn’t immediately respond
to a phone call to his office seeking comment. Labor, on course
for 26 senate spots, and the Greens, expected to secure nine
seats, are unlikely to support Abbott’s plans.  “It’s not going to be easy as he thinks,” Greens leader
 Christine Milne  said in an e-mailed statement. “With the Senate
not even finalized, he’s going to be dealing with an unsteady,
unstable and unreliable mix.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  