-- Liverpool Takes Lead in Premier League as Man City Beats
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-10-05T18:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/manchester-city-ends-everton-s-unbeaten-start-in-premier-league.html
Liverpool beat Crystal Palace 3-1 to
move to the top of English soccer’s Premier League, as
Manchester City handed Everton its first loss by the same score.  Luis Suarez ,  Daniel Sturridge  and  Steven Gerrard  scored as
Liverpool moved one point above Arsenal, which plays West Brom
tomorrow. Goals from Alvaro Negredo and  Sergio Aguero  helped
Manchester City end Everton’s unbeaten run.  Manchester United  ended a two-game losing streak in the
league with a 2-1 win at Sunderland, Newcastle won 2-1 at
Cardiff, Fulham beat Stoke 1-0 and Hull drew 0-0 at home with
Aston Villa.  Suarez opened the scoring at Anfield in the 14th minute
with his third goal in two league games since returning from a
10-match suspension for biting Chelsea’s Branislav Ivanovic last
season. Sturridge followed with his league-leading sixth goal
three minutes later.  Gerrard made it 3-0 with a penalty kick before halftime
after Raheem Sterling was tripped by Dean Moxey. It was the
Liverpool captain’s 99th Premier League goal. Dwight Gayle then
scored in the second half for Crystal Palace.  Palace, which returned to the Premier League this season,
is now winless in 17 away matches in the top flight dating back
to 2004.  Romelu Lukaku gave Everton, which was the league’s final
unbeaten team, the lead in the 16th minute in Manchester, but
Negredo pulled City even less than two minutes later. Aguero
then put the home side in front just before halftime.  Own Goal                             City sealed the victory in the second half when Everton
goalkeeper  Tim Howard  saved Aguero’s penalty kick only to have
the ball rebound against the post and in off his back for an own
goal.  The win lifts City into third place with 13 points, three
fewer than Liverpool. Everton, which opened with three wins and
three draws, is fifth with 12 points.  Adnan Januzaj scored both goals in his first start as
Manchester United avoided its first three-game losing streak in
the league since 2001.  Craig Gardner  scored in the fifth minute for Sunderland,
which has now gone 11 games without a league win, before Januzaj
scored twice in a six-minute span early in the second half.  Loic Remy scored twice as Newcastle ended a two-match
losing run by winning at Cardiff, while  Darren Bent ’s goal with
seven minutes remaining gave Fulham its first victory in eight
home matches. Hull extended its unbeaten run to four matches
with the draw against Aston Villa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 