-- APEC Sees Growth Risks as Moody’s Says Outlook Challenging
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-10-06T03:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/apec-sees-growth-risks-as-moody-s-says-outlook-challenging.html
Global growth will probably be slower
and less balanced than desired, ministers from the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation member economies said as they agreed to
refrain from raising new barriers to trade and investment.  The world economy is too weak and “risks remain tilted to
the downside,” ministers from the 21-member grouping said in a
statement in Bali yesterday. The Asia-Pacific region will have a
harder time preserving growth, given volatility in financial
markets and a slow recovery in advanced nations, Moody’s
Investors Service said.  “What we are sensing is that there is a change in the
economic cycle and sustaining the levels of economic growth that
we have seen in the region over the last five years is going to
become more challenging,”  Michael Taylor , Moody’s chief credit
officer for  Asia , told reporters in Bali.  The region still has
a “long way to go” to shift from export-led growth to that
driven by domestic demand, he said.  A slowdown in China and  India  is reverberating across the
region with the Asian Development Bank forecasting expansion at
a four-year low in 2013, putting pressure on policy makers to
bolster their economies. The Group of 20 countries repeated
their concern last month that stimulus pullback in developed
nations may prove damaging to global markets.  Protectionist Policies  APEC members must work to prevent protectionism, and
improve infrastructure to facilitate trade and investment,
Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said in a speech
in Bali today to about 1,000 business executives. Giving in to
protectionist tendencies will make things worse for all
countries, Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said at the
same event.  “While overall confidence in growth from Asia-Pacific
operations remains undiminished, we see many of the
uncertainties associated with slow growth, previously limited to
the more developed markets, now challenging developing economies
as well,” Dennis M. Nally, chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers
International Ltd., said in a report released at APEC that
surveyed more than 470 senior company officials in the region.  TPP Push  Trade ministers are seeking momentum during the Bali
meetings on a 12-nation trade pact as concessions sought by
countries threaten to delay completion further from the end of
2013. The Trans-Pacific Partnership, which involves countries
such as the U.S.,  Australia ,  Japan , Malaysia and  Vietnam , would
link an area with about $28 trillion in annual economic output.  “The pattern of aggregate demand is changing in the
region, but it is not significant enough to drive growth at the
same pace prior to the crisis,” the Pacific Economic
Cooperation Council said in a statement to APEC ministers
yesterday.  “While investment has been increasing, some of this is due
to the very cheap cost of capital during this extraordinary
period,” the council said in the statement. “As long-term
 interest rates  return to normal, more needs to be done to
improve the investment climates in our respective economies.”  Speculation over the future of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
quantitative easing program has whipsawed global assets since
May, when Chairman Ben S. Bernanke first signaled cuts may start
in 2013. Four months of rising bond yields around the world and
reduced capital flows into  emerging markets  were thrown into
reverse by the Fed’s surprise decision in September not to pare
its $85 billion in monthly asset buying.  Malaysia Risks  China needs more economic and financial reforms, while
structural changes in Japan are essential for the country to
grow, Taylor from Moody’s said. For Malaysia, Moody’s senior
analyst Christian de Guzman said risks are tilted to the
downside.  Prime Minister Najib Razak raised subsidized fuel prices
for the first time since 2010 last month and has said he will
delay some infrastructure projects, seeking to contain the
budget gap after Fitch Ratings cut Malaysia’s credit outlook to
negative in July. The government is considering a goods and
services tax in the 2014 budget due Oct. 25.  “While we do have a stable outlook, there has been
deterioration in  Malaysia ’s credit profile over the past five,
six years,” de Guzman said in Bali yesterday. “If the measures
announced in the budget are not strong enough to move the
needle, perhaps we may reconsider the rating. At the same time,
we do want to recognize that there are important strengths in
Malaysia as well.”  Open Markets  APEC ministers said they will recommend their leaders
extend through the end of 2016 a commitment to combat
protectionist measures and roll back such policies that exist.  “We reaffirmed our commitment to keep markets open and to
refrain from raising new barriers to investment or to trade in
goods and services, imposing new export restrictions, or
implementing WTO-inconsistent measures in all areas, including
those that stimulate exports,” the ministers said yesterday.  Sixty-eight percent of chief executive officers in the
Asia-Pacific region plan to increase investments next year, with
 China , the U.S. and Australia among top destinations over the
next three to five years, the PricewaterhouseCoopers report
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Bali at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at  