-- Asian Stocks Post First Weekly Drop Since August on U.S.
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-10-05T00:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/asian-stocks-post-first-weekly-drop-since-august-on-u-s-.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index declining for first time in five weeks, amid
concern that the U.S. political impasse could lead to the
government defaulting on its debt.  Toyota Motor Corp., Asia’s top carmaker, dropped 4 percent,
pacing declines among exporters. Leighton Holdings Ltd. tumbled
15 percent in Sydney after reports that former executives knew
of alleged corruption at  Australia ’s biggest builder. BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, slipped 3.4
percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.2 percent to 139.1 this
week, led by raw-material producers and industrial companies.
U.S. President  Barack Obama  canceled plans to attend two
economic summits in Asia next week as the fiscal standoff with
congressional Republicans kept the U.S. government partially
shuttered.  “The longer this political impasse goes on, the
implications are greater,” Kelly Teoh, a strategist at IG
Markets in Singapore, said in a telephone interview. “We need
to price in the impact that this will have on the U.S. economy
and that has a domino effect everywhere else. This will shave a
lot of the U.S. growth off.”  Stocks around the  world  fell this week as the failure of
U.S. lawmakers to avert a government shutdown fueled concern
they won’t be able to agree on raising the nation’s $16.7
trillion debt limit later this month. The Treasury Department
warned that a federal default could lead to a recession as bad
as the 2008 financial crisis or worse.  Relative Value  Valuations for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell to 13.4
times estimated earnings yesterday from 13.7 times on Sept. 27,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 15.2
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 14.1 for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, the data show.  Japan ’s Topix index slumped 4.4 percent this week, capping
its longest losing streak since July 2012. The Bank of Japan
maintained its monetary policy at the end of a two-day meeting
yesterday, as estimated by economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said on Oct. 1 he’d raise the sales
levy and prepare measures to soften its impact, including
considering a reduction in taxes on businesses.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  retreated 1.9 percent after
the nation’s central bank left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a record low, saying earlier cuts are still
filtering through the economy. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell
0.5 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi index lost 0.7 percent after the
country’s exports unexpectedly dropped last month. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index slipped 0.3 percent, while  Singapore ’s Straits
Times Index fell 2.3 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex index advanced 1.6
percent. China’s markets are closed for holidays until Oct. 8.  Philippine Rating  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index added 0.2 percent.
Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the country’s credit rating,
completing the nation’s ascent to investment rank, as President
Benigno Aquino leads a growth resurgence that’s outpacing the
rest of Southeast Asia.  Exporters declined amid concern the U.S. political impasse
will stall the recovery of the world’s largest economy. The
Treasury said the government will run out of borrowing authority
Oct. 17, leaving only cash to pay the bills.  Toyota Motor sank 4 percent to 6,180 yen this week.  Honda
Motor Co. (7267) , which gets about 47 percent of sales from North
America, fell 3.4 percent to 3,710 yen.  “Not only might the economic consequences of default be
profound, those consequences, including high interest rates,
reduced investment, higher debt payments and slow economic
growth could last for more than a generation,” the  U.S.
Treasury said in a report.  ‘Catastrophic Effect’  “In the event that a debt limit impasse were to lead to a
default, it could have a catastrophic effect on not just
financial markets but also on job creation, consumer spending
and economic growth -- with many private-sector analysts
believing that it would lead to events of the magnitude of late
2008 or worse, and the result then was a recession more severe
than any seen since the Great Depression,” the department said.  U.S. employment data weren’t released as scheduled
yesterday because of the government shutdown. The department
said that an alternative date for the September payrolls report
and jobless rate hasn’t been scheduled.  “The absence of the U.S. jobs data creates uncertainty,
which is reflected generally in greater equity market
volatility,” said Chad Padowitz, Melbourne-based chief
investment officer at Wingate Asset Management. “The longer the
current situation holds, the less information people know about
what’s happening in the underlying economy.”  Gangster Loans  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. sank 6.3 percent to 208 yen in
in  Tokyo  after a unit of Japan’s third-largest lender was
penalized by regulators for failing to end transactions with
organized crime groups.  Leighton tumbled 15 percent to A$16.74 in Sydney. The
company allegedly paid bribes to win contracts and former Chief
Executive Officers Wal King and David Stewart were aware of the
conduct, according to an Age newspaper report, versions of which
were published in other Fairfax Media Ltd. papers. King denied
the allegation and a spokeswoman for Stewart declined to
comment.  Raw material producers dropped as copper futures fell 0.9
percent this week. BHP Billiton declined 3.4 percent to A$35.13.
 Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-largest mining company, sank
4.5 percent to A$60.47. Jiangxi Copper Co.,  China ’s biggest
producer of the metal, slipped 3.2 percent to HK$14.94.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  