-- Red Sox Beat Rays in AL Opener; Braves, Pirates, Tigers Also Win
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-10-05T05:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/atlanta-braves-win-4-3-to-even-nl-playoff-series-with-dodgers.html
The Boston Red Sox and  Detroit  Tigers
won the openers of their American League playoff series, while
the Atlanta Braves and Pittsburgh Pirates triumphed in the
National League to even their series at one-game apiece.  Jonny Gomes and Jarrod Saltalamacchia had two-run doubles
as the Red Sox defeated the Tampa Bay Rays 12-2 to open their
best-of-five series. Jon Lester allowed two runs on three hits
in 7 2/3 innings for the host Red Sox yesterday at Fenway Park.  The Rays took a 2-0 lead on solo home runs by Sean Rodriguez and Ben Zobrist before the Red Sox got five runs in
the fourth inning and three more in the fifth, all off Rays
starter Matt Moore.  “I knew two runs wasn’t going to beat us,” Lester said in
a news conference. “As long as I kept them close enough, our
guys were going to figure out Matt, and we were able to do
that.”  Game 2 in the series is set for today, also in  Boston .  The Tigers scored three runs in the first inning and then
let starting pitcher Max Scherzer take care of the rest in a 3-2
victory at the Oakland Athletics.  Scherzer, who went 21-3 during the regular season, struck
out 11 and allowed three hits in seven innings. Two of those
hits were by Yoenis Cespedes -- a triple in the second and a
two-run homer in the seventh. Two relievers got the final six
outs for the Tigers.  Miguel Cabrera and Alex Avila had run-scoring singles in
the first inning for Detroit.  In the National League, Jason Heyward had a two-run single
and the host Braves defeated the Dodgers 4-3 to send their
series to Los Angeles tied at one-game apiece.  Atlanta Wins  Mike Minor allowed one run in 6 1/3 innings for Atlanta,
while Dodgers starter Zack Greinke gave up two runs in six
innings.  Andrelton Simmons had a run-scoring double for the Braves
and Chris Johnson added an RBI single. Hanley Ramirez drove in
all three Dodgers runs with an RBI double and a two-run homer.  “Come out and play a really, really good baseball game,
and hopefully carry a little momentum going into L.A.,” Braves
manager Fredi Gonzalez told reporters. “You don’t want to go
into L.A. down two games.”  The other NL series also is tied up, after rookie Gerrit
Cole allowed two hits in six innings and Pedro Alvarez and
Starling Marte hit home runs for Pittsburgh as the Pirates beat
the host St. Louis Cardinals 7-1.  Game 3 in the Pirates-Cardinals series is set for tomorrow
in Pittsburgh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net  