-- BP to Shell Curb Gulf Operations as Tropical Storm Nears
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-10-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/bp-to-shell-curb-gulf-operations-as-tropical-storm-nears.html
BP Plc (BP/) , the largest leaseholder in
the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, shut in oil and gas output and
other companies curbed energy production and refinery operations
as Tropical Storm Karen whirled toward the U.S. coast.  Half of Gulf oil production and 39 percent of natural gas
output is  offline , the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental
Enforcement said yesterday. BP halted production at all four
platforms it operates in the Gulf.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  cut
rates at Louisiana and  Alabama  plants. BHP Billiton Ltd.,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Marathon Oil Corp. and the Williams Cos. were also
among the companies that curbed energy output.  Karen, with top winds of 45 miles (72 kilometers) per hour,
was expected to approach the Gulf Coast later today, the
National Hurricane Center said in an advisory at 11 p.m.  New York 
time yesterday. The system became disorganized on its path
northward and a hurricane watch posted along the coastline has
been dropped.  Energy markets are expecting the storm to be “kind of a
blip,” resulting in short-lived supply disruptions, Dave Hackett, president of consulting firm Stillwater Associates, in
 Irvine ,  California , said yesterday. “There were a lot of
lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina and subsequent storms. A
big tropical storm is wet, but don’t think it’ll do any serious
damage.”  Gasoline futures for November delivery slid 3.2 cents, or
1.2 percent, to $2.6076 a gallon yesterday on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since December. Oil
gained 0.5 percent, and natural gas rose 0.2 percent.  Delayed Shipments  The hurricane center  forecast  that Karen would clip the
extreme southwestern tip of Louisiana late today and come ashore
tomorrow near Mobile, Alabama, and Pensacola,  Florida . About 2.1
million barrels a day of refining capacity are within the cone
of uncertainty.  Shell cut rates at its 85,000-barrel-a-day plant in Mobile
and Motiva Enterprises LLC reduced output at the 250,000-barrel-a-day Norco, Louisiana, refinery because of crude shipment
delays caused by Karen, Shell said on its website yesterday.
Motiva is a joint venture between Shell and Saudi Aramco.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ,  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) ,  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  and other refining companies said they were monitoring the
storm and hadn’t cut production.  Shell, based in The Hague, was removing some nonessential
personnel from drilling operations in the eastern Gulf, the
company said on its  website .  Four Platforms  BP, based in  London , shut in all production from its four
deepwater platforms, Thunder Horse, Na Kika, Atlantis and Mad
Dog. They have a combined capacity to produce 660,000 barrels of
oil and 990 million cubic feet of natural gas a day, according
to BP’s website.  Marathon halted output and evacuated all workers from its
Ewing Bank platform 130 miles south of New Orleans, the Houston-based company said on its  website . The company said it has shut
in a total of 18,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day.  Melbourne, Australia-based BHP ceased production and
evacuated its Gulf of Mexico facilities, Jaryl Strong, a
spokesman for the company, said by e-mail yesterday. Williams
shut and evacuated the Canyon Station, Devils Tower and Blind
Faith platforms in the eastern Gulf of Mexico, the company said
on its website yesterday.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , with headquarters in The
Woodlands, Texas,  halted  production and cleared all employees
from the Independence Hub and the Neptune, Constitution and
Marco Polo platforms, the company’s website showed.  Force Majeure  Destin Pipeline LLC, which can transport 1.2 billion cubic
feet of gas a day from the Gulf, declared force majeure Oct. 3,
saying in a notice to shippers that it’s incapable of providing
services from its offshore receipt points because of the storm.  Enbridge Inc.’s Manta Ray and Mississippi Canyon gas
pipeline systems in the Gulf also declared force majeure.  LOOP LLC, the only U.S. port capable of offloading ultra-large crude carriers, suspended tanker operations, the
Covington, Louisiana-based company said in a statement on its
website.  As shale plays like the Bakken in North Dakota and the
Eagle Ford in  Texas  have boomed, the U.S. has become less
reliant on offshore energy.  The share of  U.S. oil production  from the Gulf reached the
second-lowest monthly level in 17 years in June, following
September 2008, the month after Hurricane Katrina made landfall,
according to data from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. Gulf natural gas output was just 4.8 percent of
the  U.S. total  in June, down from 26 percent in June 1998.  “Because of the growth onshore there has been less
reliance on the offshore Gulf of Mexico,” said Vincent Piazza,
a Princeton, New Jersey-based oil production analyst for
Bloomberg Industries. “There should be less of an impact, all
things being equal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  