-- Campaign-Money Limits at Risk in New Court Term
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/campaign-money-limits-at-risk-in-new-court-term.html
The new U.S.  Supreme Court  term gives
the Republican-appointed majority a chance to undercut decades-old precedents in clashes over campaign finance, racial
discrimination and legislative prayer.  While the term, which by statute starts on the first Monday
in October, lacks the blockbusters of recent years, it features
“an unusually large number of cases in which the decision under
review relies on a Supreme Court precedent that may be
vulnerable,” said Irv Gornstein, executive director of the
Supreme Court Institute at  Georgetown University .  “This term is deeper in important cases than either of the
prior two terms,” Gornstein said.  The court’s four Democratic appointees won major rulings in
each of the last two terms, upholding President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law and buttressing gay marriage.  The current docket is dominated by cases more likely to
leave at least some of those justices in dissent. The court, led
by Chief Justice  John Roberts , may allow a freer flow of
campaign dollars, loosen restrictions on prayer in the public
arena and move another step toward a color-blind Constitution.  The justices also plan to hear cases involving presidential
recess appointments, abortion-clinic picketing, housing
discrimination and federal air-pollution regulations.  Next year could bring fights over abortion, gun
restrictions and contraceptive coverage by employers with
religious objections before the term ends in late June or early
July.  Campaign Financing  The court next week will hear arguments in what may become
its biggest campaign-finance case since the 2010  Citizens United 
ruling allowed unlimited corporate and union spending. Citizens
United divided the court 5-4 along ideological lines, with
Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia,  Anthony Kennedy ,  Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito  in the majority.  The new case  focuses  on contributions to candidates and
parties, rather than spending -- and raises questions about the
1976 decision that has been the bedrock of campaign-finance law
for almost four decades. That ruling, Buckley v. Valeo, said the
government had broad latitude to limit contributions to guard
against corruption.  The court in the new term will rule on the federal limits
on the total money people can give candidates, parties and
political committees. Individual donors in 2013-14 can give no
more than $123,200 every two years, including a maximum of
$48,600 to federal candidates and $74,600 to political parties
and political action committees.  Base Limits  Those aggregate limits, which date to 1974, are designed to
supplement better-known restraints known as base limits. Under
those, donors can contribute a maximum of $2,600 to particular
candidates per election, $5,000 per year to individual PACs and
$32,400 per year to each national party committee. The limits
are indexed for inflation and increase every election cycle.  Shaun McCutcheon, a Republican businessman from  Alabama  who
sued to challenge the aggregate limits, contends they violate
his free speech rights, limiting his political participation
without serving a clear purpose.  McCutcheon gave a symbolic $1,776 to 15 challengers trying
to unseat incumbents in the 2012 election. He says he would have
given to a dozen more had the aggregate limits not blocked him.  “Why is the government telling us we can’t donate to more
campaigns?” he said in an interview. “We’ve established that
2,600 is not going to hurt anything.”  Republican Support  McCutcheon, who says he has no quarrel with the base
limits, is arguing alongside the  Republican National Committee 
and Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell . On the other side
is the Obama administration, which says the aggregate caps
ensure that donors don’t circumvent the base limits.  Without the aggregate limits, donors could contribute
millions of dollars to support a single candidate by channeling
the money through other political committees, says Tara Malloy,
a lawyer with the Washington-based Campaign Legal Center, which
supports the restrictions. The aggregate caps are “crucial to
making sure the base limits actually work,” Malloy said.  In Buckley, the Supreme Court upheld the aggregate limits,
saying they prevented “evasion” of the base limits.  Opponents argue that post-Buckley restrictions on
contributions to parties and PACs have made the aggregate limits
unnecessary. They also say federal law restricts the ability of
donors to earmark their contributions.  Overruling Buckley  Scalia, Thomas and Kennedy have said they would overturn
the Buckley analysis, and Alito has hinted he would revisit it.
That would subject contribution limits to the same tough
scrutiny as spending caps, like those thrown out in Citizens
United, and call the base limits themselves into question.  “I think there are five justices who would like to
overrule Buckley,” said Pamela Harris, a Georgetown law
professor in  Washington  who previously served in the Obama
administration.  Even if that’s true, the court doesn’t need to take that
step now, said  Paul Clement , a Washington lawyer who served as
President  George W. Bush ’s top Supreme Court advocate.  “This may not be a case where they really need to make the
stronger move in order to get the result that maybe you suspect
that five justices are going to be inclined to reach,” he said.  Two lesser-known precedents will be tested by the
affirmative action case, to be argued on Oct. 15. They are 1969
and 1982 rulings designed to protect minority groups from laws
that cut them out of the political process.  Unique Disadvantage  The dispute stems from a 2006 ballot initiative that
amended Michigan’s constitution to bar race-based college
admissions, nullifying a three-year-old Supreme Court decision.
The case doesn’t directly concern the constitutionality of
affirmative action, an issue the justices took up last term.  A federal appeals court said the Michigan measure put
racial minorities at a unique disadvantage by barring them from
asking universities for special preferences -- something the
panel said athletes, band members and children of alumni could
still do.  In defending the initiative, Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette said the court might have to overturn a 1982 ruling in
which the court invalidated a Washington ballot initiative that
had prohibited busing for purposes of desegregating schools.  The court will also consider legislative prayer for the
first time in 30 years. The case centers on the practice in
 Greece ,  New York , of beginning every town board meeting with a
prayer from a local religious leader.  Different Directions  The prayers were exclusively Christian, often invoking
Jesus, until two citizens of the Rochester suburb complained.
They sued and a federal appeals court said the town’s practice
violated the Constitution.  The Supreme Court will have to grapple with past cases that
point in different directions. The most direct precedent is a
1983 Supreme Court decision upholding Nebraska’s practice of
opening each session with a prayer from a paid chaplain, a
Presbyterian minister. The court described the Nebraska prayers
as “nonsectarian,” although the minister filed a  brief  in the
Greece case to say he was delivering Christian invocations.  In ruling against Greece, the appeals court pointed to a
1989 Supreme Court ruling that barred a nativity scene on a
courthouse staircase. With the now-retired Justice  Sandra Day O’Connor  casting the deciding vote, the court said the display
was an impermissible government “endorsement” of religion.  ‘Big Step’  The town is asking the court to say that O’Connor’s
endorsement test has no place in a legislative prayer context.
The town also is taking what Harris calls a “super-aggressive”
position by arguing that it can’t constitutionally ask prayer-givers to excise sectarian references.  “They think they have the wind at their back,” Harris
said. “They think they have a court ready to at least consider
taking a very, very big step in this area.”  The court also will rule on the reach of the president’s
constitutional power to bypass the Senate confirmation process
by appointing officials during legislative recesses. The dispute
stems from Obama’s 2012 appointment of members of the  National
Labor Relations Board . The board’s authority is being challenged
by a company accused of labor violations, soft-drink bottler
Noel Canning Corp. of Yakima, Washington.  A federal appeals court put sweeping new limitations on the
president’s recess-appointment power. The panel said the
authority applies only between Congress’s two-year sessions and
only to vacancies that occurred while the Senate was adjourned.  Resolving Standoff  The high court could rule against Obama without going that
far. Noel Canning contends the Senate wasn’t in recess when
Obama made his appointments because the body was convening every
three days in “pro forma” sessions.  The court’s ruling will have less immediate impact than it
might have had. Obama and Senate Republicans in July resolved
their appointments standoff with an agreement that cleared the
way for the confirmation of new NLRB nominees and of Richard Cordray as director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The abortion-picketing case, concerning Massachusetts’ 35-foot buffer zone around clinics, also tests a precedent. The
court in 2000 upheld a smaller buffer zone in  Colorado .  In the housing case, at issue is whether people who file
discrimination suits must show they were victims of intentional
bias. Because every appeals court to consider the issue has
allowed such suits, a high court ruling to the contrary could
change the law throughout the country. It could also undermine
the Obama administration’s crackdown on the lending industry.  In the clean-air case, the court is considering an
Environmental Protection Agency rule that would curb emissions
from coal-fired  power plants .  The court formally opens its term on Oct. 7, when it will
hear arguments in two cases, including one that stems from R. Allen Stanford’s Ponzi scheme and may tighten the limits on
securities fraud suits. The question is whether aggrieved
investors can sue law firms and outside companies for their
alleged roles in Stanford’s international fraud.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  