-- Canada Dollar Falls Amid Concern Over U.S. Shutdown Impact, Oil
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-10-05T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/canada-dollar-falls-amid-concern-over-u-s-shutdown-impact-oil.html
Canada ’s dollar sank as the nation’s
crude-oil prices slid relative to a U.S. benchmark and concern
increased that the economy will be hurt by the American
government shutdown.  The currency touched a two-week low against its U.S. peer
as a budget impasse in Canada’s biggest trade partner persisted
and another fight loomed over raising the U.S. government’s debt
ceiling. The currency erased a weekly loss against the greenback
yesterday as risk appetite improved amid optimism that lawmakers
in  Washington  might reach a deal soon. Canadian employment
growth slowed in August, a report next week is forecast to show.  “U.S. economic uncertainty equates to Canadian economic
uncertainty -- as they sneeze, we get a cold,”  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada 
in Toronto, said in a phone interview. “There will be a deal,
but the uncertainty, combined with less-than-stellar economic
releases in Canada, continues to weigh on the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell against 13 of its 16
most-traded peers this week in trading in Toronto.  The currency appreciated 0.1 percent to C$1.0294 per  U.S.
dollar  this week after touching C$1.0356 on Oct. 2, the weakest
level since Sept. 16. One Canadian dollar buys 97.14 U.S. cents.  Bonds Fall  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond declined for the
first time in four weeks, pushing yields on the benchmark
 security  up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.58
percent. The price of the 1.5 percent security due in June 2023
fell 18 cents to C$90.85.  The U.S. government began its first partial shutdown in 17
years on Oct. 1 as Republicans who control the House insisted on
changes to the nation’s 2010 health-care law, President  Barack
Obama ’s signature legislative achievement. The Senate,
controlled by Democrats, refused. Congress also faces the $16.7
trillion statutory debt ceiling, which the Treasury has said
will be reached Oct. 17.  “The shutdown is bad for growth in Canada, and as we get
closer to the debt-ceiling deadline there is more concern
manifesting, which is weighing on the U.S. dollar relative to
the loonie,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in Toronto, said by
phone. “We will probably continue to chop around in a range
until this monumental uncertainty is cleared up. It’s all a
question of waiting for Washington at this point.”  Canada’s dollar touched a four-day high on Sept. 30,
C$1.0275, after a report showed gross domestic product increased
at the fastest pace in two years in July, with output rising 0.6
percent to an annualized C$1.58 trillion.  Ivey Index  Canadian  purchasing managers  increased spending in
September by less than economists forecast, according to a gauge
released yesterday by Western University’s business school. The
Ivey Purchasing Managers Index rose to 51.9 in September on a
seasonally adjusted basis, following an August reading of 51.0.
Readings of more than 50 indicate purchasing by governments and
companies increased. A Bloomberg survey forecast 53.6.  Employers added 10,000 jobs in September, compared with
59,200 the previous month, economists in another Bloomberg
survey projected before  Statistics Canada  reports the data on
Oct. 11.  “We’ve got uncertainty whether or not Canadian exports to
the U.S. are going to rebound sharply over the next several
months with this uncertainty over the government shutdown and
the U.S. economic outlook,”  David Watt , chief economist at the
Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a phone interview.  The price spread between Western Canada Select  oil  and West
Texas Intermediate increased yesterday to the widest since
January. The discount Canada’s benchmark crude-oil grade faces
to WTI oil reached $34.50 a barrel. WTI futures traded at
$103.84 in  New York .  Oil is Canada’s biggest export.  The Canadian dollar has lost 1.6 percent this year against
nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar gained 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  