-- Chevron Resuming Gulf of Mexico Operations as Karen Weakens
-- B y   H a r r y   R .   W e b e r
-- 2013-10-05T19:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/chevron-resuming-gulf-of-mexico-operations-as-karen-weakens.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  began returning workers
to shuttered Gulf of Mexico operations and Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. said it expected to follow suit as Tropical Storm Karen
weakened off Louisiana.  San Ramon, Calif.-based Chevron, which produces oil and gas
from the Tahiti and Blind Faith fields and has a stake in the
Perdido development, said on its website at 1 p.m. Eastern time
today that it would be resuming normal operations. It didn’t say
how long that would would take.  The storm “doesn’t seem to be as significant as was once
thought, but we’re still monitoring the situation,” Vincent
Piazza, a Princeton, New Jersey-based oil production analyst for
Bloomberg Industries, said today.  He said it was unclear how long the disruptions would last.  Anadarko (APC) , based in The Woodlands,  Texas ,  halted  production
and cleared employees from the Independence Hub and the Neptune,
Constitution and Marco Polo platforms. Workers on the latter two
may return later today, John Christiansen, a spokesman at
Anadarko’s headquarters, said by e-mail.  Other companies with Gulf operations, including London-based  BP Plc (BP/) , the largest leaseholder in the deepwater there,
kept energy production offline. Those producers and refiners
planned to remobilize as conditions allowed.  Almost 62 percent of Gulf oil production, some 866,000
barrels of oil per day, and 48 percent of natural gas output, or
1.8 billion cubic feet daily, was  offline  today, according to
the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement.  BP Operations  BP secured wells being drilled by rigs it operates in the
Gulf. The company also halted production at all four of its
platforms there -- Thunder Horse, Atlantis, Na Kika and Mad Dog
-- and evacuated non-essential workers.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
cut rates at Louisiana and  Alabama  plants.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and the  Williams Cos. (WMB)  were
also among the companies curbing energy output.  The storm, with top winds holding at 40 mph (60kph), was
130 miles south-southwest of Morgan City, Louisiana, as of 2
p.m.  New York  time and had stalled, the National Hurricane
Center said  in an advisory . Karen would be downgraded to a
tropical depression if sustained winds drop below 39 mph, which
the National Hurricane Center said will probably occur tomorrow.  Energy markets expect the storm to be “kind of a blip,”
resulting in short-lived supply disruptions, Dave Hackett,
president of consulting firm Stillwater Associates, in  Irvine ,
 California , said yesterday.  ‘Lessons Learned’  “There were a lot of lessons learned from Hurricane
Katrina and subsequent storms,” he said. “A big tropical storm
is wet, but don’t think it’ll do any serious damage.”  Gasoline futures for November delivery slid 3.2 cents, or
1.2 percent, to $2.6076 a gallon yesterday on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since December. Oil
gained 0.5 percent, and natural gas rose 0.2 percent.  Shell cut rates at its 85,000-barrel-a-day plant in Mobile,
Alabama, and Motiva Enterprises LLC reduced output at the
250,000-barrel-a-day Norco, Louisiana, refinery because of
shipment delays caused by Karen, Shell said on its website
yesterday. Motiva is a joint venture of Shell and Saudi Aramco.  Shell, based in The Hague, also was removing some
nonessential personnel from drilling operations in the eastern
Gulf, the company said on its  website .  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ,  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) , Chevron and
other refinery operators said they were monitoring the storm and
hadn’t cut production.  Four Platforms  London-based BP’s four deepwater platforms have a combined
capacity to produce 660,000 barrels of oil and 990 million cubic
feet of natural gas a day, according to BP’s website.  Marathon halted output and evacuated all workers from its
Ewing Bank platform 130 miles south of New Orleans, the Houston-based company said on its  website . The company said it shut in a
total of 18,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day.  Melbourne, Australia-based BHP ceased production and
evacuated its Gulf of Mexico facilities, Jaryl Strong, a
spokesman for the company, said by e-mail yesterday. Williams
shut and evacuated the Canyon Station, Devils Tower and Blind
Faith platforms in the eastern Gulf of Mexico, the company said
on its website yesterday.  Destin Pipeline LLC, which can transport 1.2 billion cubic
feet of gas a day from the Gulf, declared force majeure Oct. 3,
saying in a notice to shippers that it’s incapable of providing
services from its offshore receipt points because of the storm.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Manta Ray and Mississippi Canyon gas
pipeline systems in the Gulf also declared force majeure.  LOOP LLC, the only U.S. port capable of offloading ultra-large crude carriers, suspended tanker operations, the
Covington, Louisiana-based company said in a statement on its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry R. Weber in Houston at 
 hweber14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  