-- Defense Department to Call Back Most Furloughed Civilians
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-10-06T15:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/defense-department-to-recall-most-furloughed-civilians.html
The U.S. Defense Department plans to
call back most of the civilian employees it furloughed last week
under the federal government shutdown, a move that averted some
layoffs planned by defense contractors.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said in a statement yesterday
that legislation signed by President  Barack Obama , which ensured
that service members were paid on time during the shutdown,
permitted the military to call back employees responsible for
the “morale, well-being, capabilities and readiness of service
members.”  “I expect us to be able to significantly reduce -- but not
eliminate -- civilian furloughs under this process,” Hagel said
in the statement. “Employees can expect to hear more
information from their managers starting this weekend.”  The Pentagon’s decision may reduce the pressure of the
closing on military contractors. A unit of United Technologies
Corp., whose work includes making Black Hawk helicopters,
canceled furloughs for 2,000 employees after the Pentagon
announcement.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest defense
contractor, said on Oct. 4 that it had identified about 3,000 of
its employees for furloughs starting tomorrow. It is still too
early to tell if those plans will change, said Gordon Johndroe,
a spokesman for the company.  “We’ll continue to be in close contact with the Pentagon
and are hopeful that our programs and contracts can move
forward,” Johndroe said in an e-mail.  Lost Wages  The Pentagon’s action came as the House passed a law that
would eventually repay furloughed civilian workers their lost
wages, a step that would mitigate some of the economic impact of
the shutdown. House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia
Republican, called the wage bill part of an effort to “ease the
pain” of the closing as lawmakers made no political headway on
a path to end it.  The Pentagon last week put about 350,000 employees on
leave, about half of its worldwide civilian workforce,
Undersecretary of Defense Robert Hale told reporters on a
conference call yesterday. He said he now expects 90 percent or
more of those workers to be called back to work.  “No more than a few tens of thousands will remain on
furlough, and it may be substantially less than that,” Hale
said.  Employee Notification  Hale said employees would be notified in the coming days,
and that he had no concrete estimate for how many would remain
off the job. Among those who won’t return, he said, are those
not directly related to service operations, including some in
information technology, auditing, public affairs and those on
the defense payroll engaged in work not directly related to the
department.  The step will bring back workers amid the standoff in
Congress over Obama’s Affordable Care Act that left the U.S.
without a budget when the fiscal year began on Oct. 1. The
partial government shutdown is the first since 1996.  Republican lawmakers had said the Pentagon furloughed far
more workers than required under the shutdown.  Responding to yesterday’s announcement, Representative
Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, the California Republican who heads
the House Armed Services Committee, said in a statement,
“Though I do not believe the law required these hundreds of
thousands of workers to be furloughed in the first place, it is
welcome news.”  Among those the Pentagon considers within its power to
employ during the shutdown are those engaged in contracts and
their oversight, including inspectors that monitor their work,
according to a memo released yesterday. It also includes the
vast majority of the department’s other employees, including
those who work in health care, commissaries and in intelligence
operations, according to the memo.  Lockheed Furloughs  The recall of Pentagon inspectors who oversee defense
contractors may avoid furloughs at defense companies. Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed said that it was planning furloughs in
part because some of its workers perform tasks in government
facilities that are now closed or require inspectors to monitor
their work.  “We will be bringing those inspectors back,” Hale said
yesterday.  The Aerospace Industries Association said in a statement
last week that companies had voiced concern that if the shutdown
continues they would be forced to furlough tens of thousands of
workers.  “We haven’t solved all the problems,” Hale said. “We
still hope Congress will act very quickly to end this
shutdown.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  