-- Dollar Falls in Longest Streak Since 2011 on Debt-Limit Concern
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-05T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/dollar-falls-in-longest-streak-since-2011-on-debt-limit-concern.html
The dollar fell for a fifth week, the
longest stretch since April 2011, as Congress failed to agree on
a way to raise the $16.7 trillion U.S. debt limit, spurring
investors to seek other assets.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index traded at almost the lowest
level since February as a stalemate between congressional
Republicans and Democrats led to a partial government shutdown.
The government will run out of borrowing authority Oct. 17,
according to the Treasury Department. The euro reached its
strongest level against the greenback in eight months as Italy’s
government won a confidence vote. An index due out on Oct. 11
may show that U.S.  consumer confidence  fell this month,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  “It’s not so much the impact on economic growth as just
disruption to markets,” Daniel Brehon, a currency strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said in a phone interview. While
odds are low, a U.S. default is “not a zero probability. That
alone, even a small probability of a major event, has got to
have people thinking to be safely positioned. It’s more pricing
in tail risk than it is the impact on growth.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, declined 0.3 percent this week, the
most in two weeks, to 1,009.98 in  New York .  Market Prices  The dollar fell 0.8 percent to 97.48 yen, the third weekly
drop. It touched 96.93, the lowest since Aug. 28. The U.S.
currency weakened 0.3 percent to $1.3558 per euro. The yen
strengthened 0.5 percent to 132.14 per euro.  Sterling fell the most this week of the dollar’s 16 most-traded peers, after reaching a nine-month high, amid speculation
the U.K. economic recovery isn’t strong enough to warrant an
early interest-rate increase.  The pound slid 0.8 percent to $1.6010 after rising to
$1.6260 on Oct. 1, the highest level since Jan. 2.  Bank of England  policy makers, who meet next week, have
said they will keep the benchmark  interest rate  at a record low
until unemployment falls to 7 percent. The jobless rate was 7.7
percent in the second quarter.  “Some of the momentum in the early-rate-hike argument has
been lost,” said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at
Rabobank International in  London . “People are taking off some
of their long positions, in case we see a negative shock,” she
said, referring to bets an asset will gain.  Real Rises  Brazil ’s real rallied as the nation’s central bank
maintained a $60 billion intervention program to support the
currency and curb inflation by limiting import prices. The real
has climbed 10 percent since the program was announced Aug. 22,
a day after the currency touched a 4 1/2-year low.  The real climbed 1.8 percent 2.2117 per dollar.  The U.S. government will have $30 billion after Oct. 17 when
borrowing auction is exhausted, according to the Treasury. The
nation would be unable to pay all of its bills sometime between
Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the  Congressional Budget
Office .”  Money managers are getting out of Treasuries maturing
closest to the debt-ceiling deadline and buying longer-maturity
bills, yields indicate. One-month rates touched 0.19 percent
yesterday, matching a 45-month high reached in November 2012,
while the rate on three-month bills was 0.02 percent, the
biggest inversion of the spread since September 2008.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said the way to open the
partially shut government is for Democrats to negotiate with him
and accept changes that would produce “fairness” under the
Affordable Care Act. The shutdown has furloughed about 800,000
federal employees and is becoming a prolonged deadlock that
merges with the debt-ceiling debate.  Obama Statement  “There will be no negotiations over this,” President
 Barack Obama  said this week in Rockville,  Maryland . “The
American people are not pawns in some political game. You don’t
get to demand some ransom in exchange for keeping the government
running.”  The first partial shutdown of the U.S. government in 17
years delayed three economic releases this week, including the
monthly payrolls report and the official jobless rate, which had
been scheduled for release yesterday.  “Less data is not helpful in gauging where the economy is
and where it’s going,” Atlanta Federal Reserve President  Dennis
Lockhart  said Oct. 3 in Atlanta. If the shutdown lasts until the
Fed’s next meeting on Oct. 29-30, “it would be very hard to
make a decision” about reducing quantitative easing, he said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  on Oct. 9 is scheduled to
release the minutes of its previous meeting. Consumer confidence
may have fallen to 76 from 77.5 the previous month, according to
the median survey of 43 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index declined to a
five-month low in September.  Italian Vote  Italian  government bonds  extended a weekly advance on
optimism the nation’s coalition government is stabilizing after
Prime Minister Enrico Letta won a confidence vote in parliament
this week. Yields on the government’s debt fell 12 basis points
this week to 4.3 percent and compare with a high this year of
4.9 percent in February.  The euro has strengthened 5.6 percent this year, the best
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar appreciated
2.5 percent, while the yen tumbled 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  