-- Iran’s Foreign Minister Seeks Shift Away From Era of Sanctions
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-10-05T20:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/iran-s-foreign-minister-seeks-shift-away-from-era-of-sanctions.html
Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif
said he welcomes his country’s shift away from the diplomatic
isolation and the sanctions weighing on his country’s economy.  Zarif said initial diplomatic discussions about  Iran ’s
nuclear-fuel production marked a “good beginning.”  “Nobody has benefitted from this pattern of relations that
we’ve had over the last eight years,” he said, according to a
transcript of his interview with CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS,”
scheduled to air tomorrow.  “There is need for change. And I hope that everybody
realizes that we need to change that process, put an end to
something that was a lose-lose situation and hopefully begin
something that will be to the benefit of everyone.”  The comments reflect the thaw in Iran’s relations with the
international community under President Hassan Rouhani, who took
office in August pledging to improve the country’s world
standing and an economy hurt by sanctions imposed because of the
country’s pursuit of nuclear technology.  “We have very serious sanctions that are hurting the
Iranian people,” Zarif said on CNN. Iran’s inflation rate is
almost 40 percent, economy minister Ali Tayyeb-Nia said today,
according to state television.  Rouhani spoke by phone with U.S. President  Barack Obama 
during the trip to the United Nations last month, in the
highest-level diplomatic encounter between the two countries
since Iran’s 1979 Islamic revolution. Rouhani has criticized the
confrontational approach of his predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who had held the office since 2005.  Zarif met last month with U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and counterparts from five other world powers and proposed
a goal of reaching an agreement over its nuclear program within
a year.  Crude Oil Output  Iran’s crude oil output, once second to Saudi Arabia’s
among the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, has
fallen to its lowest since 1990 under U.S. and European
sanctions. The International Energy Agency said Oct. 2 that
U.S.-Iranian talks are “very important” for oil markets.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said that
Iran is six months away from having the capability to produce a
nuclear weapon. Obama said in an interview with the Associated
Press published today that the U.S. considers such a step about
a year or more away, though he understands Netanyahu’s
skepticism of Iran’s overtures given the history of hostility
between the two countries.  In his interview with  CNN , Zarif said Iran has been
enriching uranium in order to create fuel for nuclear power
plants, and said  Israel  has for decades been saying that Iran is
on the verge of obtaining a nuclear bomb.  “We don’t have a bomb because we don’t see it in our
interests,” he said. Alternative energy sources are now a
“major policy option that, both from an environmental
perspective, as well as from sustainable development
perspective, is being suggested and promoted at the
international level,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  