-- Kerry Urges Congress to End Shutdown as U.S. Interests Hurt
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-10-06T04:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/kerry-urges-congress-to-end-shutdown-as-u-s-interests-imperiled.html
Congress needs to think “long and
hard about the message” the partial government shutdown sends
overseas about U.S. credibility, Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said, urging lawmakers to “end it now, end it today.”  The furloughing of government workers is imperiling U.S.
interests worldwide, delaying security assistance to Israel,
freezing peacekeeping funds for the Sinai and potentially
weakening enforcement of sanctions against Iran, Kerry told
reporters yesterday at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
forum in Bali,  Indonesia .  Kerry is standing in for President  Barack Obama  after he
canceled a four-nation trip to Asia in order to seek an end to
the impasse with Republicans in Congress who are demanding
changes to his health insurance legislation. It is “very
disappointing” that Obama had to cancel his visits, Singapore
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said today.  “Obviously we prefer a U.S. government which is working to
one which is not, and we prefer a U.S. president who is able to
travel and fulfill international duties to one who is
preoccupied with domestic” issues, Lee said at a business
conference in Bali. “America is a very important partner for us
but we understand his problems and his priorities and we hope
he’ll be able to resolve them quickly.”  Agenda Undermined  Obama’s absence means he won’t meet the leaders of Russia
and China, which undermines his agenda in the short term, Kerry
said.  Obama’s absence may add to anxiety in Asia that the U.S. is
too preoccupied with internal politics to pursue its so-called
“pivot” to Asia. The U.S. is seeking to boost defense ties
with the region and finalize the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade
pact. The second-term priority is intended to enhance America’s
standing in a region adjusting to China’s economic and military
emergence.  “We have a very diverse relationship in the region, not
just based on national security but investment, trade,” U.S.
Commerce Secretary  Penny Pritzker  told reporters in Bali today.
“What’s frustrating about the shutdown is that it delays much
of that. The shutdown is not good for business, not good for the
economy.”  Kerry said the shutdown, now in its sixth day, won’t have a
long-term impact on  U.S. foreign policy  or Obama’s economic
agenda if it ends soon, calling it “political silliness”
forced upon the country by the  House of Representatives . He
urged “all of our friends and foes watching around the world”
to “not mistake this momentary episode in American politics”
for anything more than partisan politics.  ‘Same Decision’  Kerry also rejected the notion that Asia-Pacific leaders
may view Obama’s inability to attend the summit as weakness,
saying those leaders know the  budget crisis  will be resolved
soon and “the  United States  will still be the strongest power
in the world,” both militarily and economically.  “There isn’t one leader here who wouldn’t make the same
decision” if faced with a similar crisis at home, Kerry said,
adding they “understand” that on critical issues such as
preventing nuclear threats from Iran and North Korea and
ensuring Asian maritime security and freedom of navigation,
“our commitment is not going to change.”  Kerry acknowledged the danger that the Obama
administration’s priorities overseas are put at risk by the
funding freeze while it is distracted by the political crisis in
Washington.  ‘Momentary Disruption’  Still, he called the partial shutdown a “momentary
disruption” with “a momentary impact.”  “If it were prolonged, or it were repeated,” he warned,
the world would begin “to question the willingness of the
United States to stay the course - or its ability” to do so.  Kerry, who spent almost three decades in the  U.S. Senate ,
put blame for the crisis on lawmakers of the lower House.  “It is not only within Congress’s power to prevent the
shutdown, it is also within Congress’s power to end it -- to end
it now, to end it today,” he said.  Obama called off his trip to Indonesia and Brunei, the host
countries for back-to-back summits of APEC and the  Association
of Southeast Asian Nations , as well as  Malaysia  and the
 Philippines  for what would have been a week-long visit to the
region.  Asia Image  Asia has become a focus for the Obama administration given
the region’s growing economies and consumer markets, and their
potential to fuel jobs growth in America. U.S. exports to the
Pacific Rim rose to $326.4 billion in 2010, from $254.6 billion
in 2009, according to U.S. Census Bureau data.  “We’ve reached the point to put politics aside and do the
economics and for the president and the leaders of the House and
Senate to get into the same room,”  Tom Donohue , president of
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said in an interview yesterday
with Bloomberg Television in Bali. “All of them. And make this
thing work.”  Speaking at a joint briefing with Kerry yesterday, U.S.
Trade Representative  Michael Froman  dismissed concerns that
Obama’s absence from APEC would undermine U.S.-led efforts to
secure an agreement on the TPP trade pact by the end of the
year.  TPP talks began in March 2010 and have grown to encompass
12 nations -- the U.S., Australia, Brunei, Chile,  New Zealand ,
 Peru , Singapore, Japan, Mexico, Canada, Vietnam and Malaysia --
in an area with about $28 trillion in annual economic output.  “Of course we wish the President were here to lead the
meeting of TPP leaders,” Froman said. Even so, “we’ve been
here for the last several days meeting around the clock as
ministers and negotiators, making significant progress on the
negotiations,” he said.  ‘Serious Blow’  Ken Lieberthal, who served as Asia director of the National
Security Council under former President  Bill Clinton , called
Obama’s cancellation “a serious blow to U.S. diplomacy,”
saying it creates a negative view in Asia about the president’s
“ability to deliver on commitments.”  The U.S. has played a crucial role in past APEC and Asean
meetings and sending Kerry in Obama’s place “is very different
from having the president show up,” said Lieberthal, now a
senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington.  Some Asian officials have questioned the U.S.’s ability to
focus on their region.  “Is the pivot to Asia in the second-term Obama
administration sustainable with all the attention to the Middle
East?” Indonesian Ambassador to the U.S. Dino Djalal asked at a
Sept. 25 conference in Washington. “Our relations are still
below our potential.”  China Push  Obama’s absence will be made more notable by China’s
diplomatic push around the meetings. Chinese President Xi Jinping visited Indonesia and announced plans to boost defense
and security cooperation with Malaysia after meeting with Prime
Minister Najib Razak near  Kuala Lumpur .  Chinese Prime Minister  Li Keqiang  plans to attend the Asean
meeting and then make official visits to Thailand and Vietnam,
Qin Gang, a spokesman for China’s Foreign Ministry, said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Bali, Indonesia at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  