-- Nadal Regains No. 1 Tennis Ranking by Reaching Beijing Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-10-05T14:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/nadal-regains-no-1-tennis-ranking-by-reaching-beijing-final.html
Rafael Nadal  will return to the top
of the men’s tennis world rankings after advancing to the final
of the China Open when Tomas Berdych retired with an injury.  Nadal needed to reach the title match in Beijing to
supplant  Serbia ’s Novak Djokovic when the new rankings are
released by the  ATP World Tour  in two days. The 27-year-old
Spaniard was last ranked No. 1 in July 2011.  Nadal was leading 4-2 in the opening set of today’s
semifinal when Berdych retired with a back injury. He will face
Djokovic for the title tomorrow after the Serb beat  France ’s
Richard Gasquet 6-4, 6-2.  Nadal, the reigning French Open and U.S. Open champion, has
dominated the men’s tour since returning in February from a
seven-month layoff due to a knee injury. The 13-time Grand Slam
champion has won 10 titles and reached 12 finals, while
compiling a 65-3 record.  “A great year, one of the best years of my career without
any doubt,” Nadal, whose last loss came against Steve Darcis of
 Belgium , then ranked 135, in the first round of Wimbledon in
June, said on the ATP website. “Sure is special to be back to
the top position of the rankings after more than a half year
without playing tennis.”  In the women’s draw in Beijing, top-ranked  Serena Williams 
of the U.S. continued her domination of Agnieszka Radwanska to
reach the final.  Williams Victory  Williams won 6-2, 6-2 for her seventh victory in as many
matches against the third-seeded Pole. The American lost just 14
points on her serve and broke Radwanska four times.  “Playing against Agnieszka, she plays like magic, she can
move the ball left and right, she can do anything with her
shots,” Williams said on the  WTA Tour website . “So for me
today it was just important to try to stay ahead of her, or one
step ahead of her. I just tried to do that today and I’m happy
with how things went.”  Williams will be seeking her 10th title of the season when
she meets No. 8 Jelena Jankovic of Serbia in tomorrow’s final.
Jankovic advanced today with a 6-7 (7-9), 6-1, 6-1 victory over
No. 9 Petra Kvitova of the  Czech Republic .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 