-- U.S. Raids Al-Shabaab Hub as Fugitive Captured in Libya
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-10-06T21:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/nighttime-u-s-special-operations-raid-somalian-terrorist-base.html
U.S. forces raided a Somali town in
search of a leader of the Islamist group al-Shabaab and captured
a fugitive in  Libya  wanted for al-Qaeda bombing plots, as part
of anti-terrorism efforts.  The Somali operation was carried out against a known al-Shabaab terrorist, said  George Little , a Pentagon spokesman. He
declined to give further details. The fugitive, Anu Anas al-Libi, is “currently lawfully detained under the law of war”
outside of Libya, Little said in a subsequent  statement 
yesterday.  U.S. armed forces undertook the missions “to continue to
hunt down those responsible for acts of terrorism,” Secretary
of State  John Kerry  said yesterday during a trip in Bali,
Indonesia. “This makes clear that the U.S. will never stop in
its effort to hold those accountable who conduct acts of
terror.”  Special Operations forces raided the port of Baraawe, south
of Somalia’s capital, Mogadishu, a U.S. official briefed on the
mission said. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because counter-terrorism operations are classified, said one of
the main targets of the air and sea assault was a suspected
leader of al-Shabaab, which said it carried out an attack on the
Westgate Mall in the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, last month that
killed at least 67 people.  The official declined to given the name of the leader, who
he said was targeted for capture and may have been killed in an
extended firefight between U.S. Navy SEALs and fighters in the
village. The objective of most such missions is to capture and
interrogate terrorist leaders, not kill them, the official said.
No U.S. personnel were killed or injured, he said.  Embassy Bombings  In a separate operation, U.S. forces captured al-Libi in
connection with his alleged role in al-Qaeda’s efforts to kill
U.S. nationals and to conduct attacks against U.S. interests
worldwide, Little said yesterday. He has been indicted in the
Southern District of New York, he said.  “Our first priority is and always has been to apprehend
terrorist suspects, and to preserve the opportunity to elicit
valuable intelligence that can help us protect the American
people,” Little said in the statement. “These actions are a
clear sign that the  United States  is committed to using all the
tools at our disposal to bring to justice those who commit
terrorist acts against Americans.”  The al-Qaeda plots targeted U.S. forces in  Saudi Arabia ,
Yemen and Somalia and U.S. embassies in  Dar es Salaam  and
Nairobi, Little said. The operation was approved by President
 Barack Obama .  Obama’s Preference  “The president has made clear our preference for capturing
terrorist targets when possible, and that’s exactly what we’ve
done in order to elicit as much valuable intelligence as we can
and bring a dangerous terrorist to justice,” National Security
Council spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden said in a statement
yesterday. The statement didn’t mention the raid in Somalia.  “These operations in Libya and Somalia send a strong
message to the world that the United States will spare no effort
to hold terrorists accountable, no matter where they hide or how
long they evade justice,” U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We will continue to
maintain relentless pressure on terrorist groups that threaten
our people or our interests, and we will conduct direct action
against them, if necessary, that is consistent with our laws and
our values.”  New York Indictment  Born Nazih Abdul-Hamed al-Ruqai, al-Libi had been indicted
by the U.S. attorney in the Southern District of  New York  in
2000 for taking part in the 1998 bombings of the U.S. embassies
in Kenya and  Tanzania .  Jumaa Al Mishri, an Interior Ministry official, said in a
phone interview yesterday that al-Libi was taken in front of his
house in eastern Tripoli as he was returning from a mosque.
Those who took him “spoke the Libyan dialect,” Al Mishri said
without elaborating.  Libya, in a statement on the government’s official Facebook
page, yesterday asked the U.S. to explain its role in the
seizure of one of its citizens.  “The government stresses how keen it is that Libyans
should face trial in Libya regardless of the charges, and that
suspects are innocent until proven guilty,” it said in the
statement. “Concerned ministries have been tasked with
following up the matter with U.S. authorities.”  The Libyan government said it “hopes” the strategic
partnership with the U.S. “isn’t threatened by this incident,”
according to the statement.  The al-Shabaab figure sought in Somalia was also a link
between extremists in  East Africa  and the remnants of al-Qaeda’s
senior leadership in  Pakistan  and its Yemeni affiliate,
according to the official briefed on that raid.  Mall Attack  The “raid is definitely connected to the Westgate attack,
because the target was al-Shabaab leaders,”  Emmanuel
Kisiangani , a Nairobi-based analyst at the Institute for
Security Studies, said yesterday in a phone interview. “We are
likely to see the U.S.,  Kenya  and other countries actively
pursuing terrorists to step up efforts to at least disorganize
al-Shabaab using tactics like this raid.”  U.S. and Kenyan authorities hoped to question members of
al-Shabaab captured in Baraawe about the mall attack, and wanted
to know whether the group was making plans with other al-Qaeda
affiliates for attacks elsewhere in the world, the official
said.  Manoah Esipisu, a Kenyan presidency spokesman, said in a
phone interview yesterday that the “assault” was a U.S.
operation and questions about it should be directed to the
Americans.  U.S. Special Operations forces killed another senior al-Shabaab leader, Saleh Ali Saleh, not far from Baraawe in 2009,
the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Bali,  Indonesia  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  