-- Obama Predicts Debt Deal in Time as Shutdown Lingers
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-10-05T15:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/obama-predicts-debt-ceiling-deal-in-time-as-shutdown-lingers.html
(Corrects figure on budget deficit as a percentage of GDP
in 13th paragraph.)  President  Barack Obama  said he
expects Congress will reach an agreement to raise the nation’s
$16.7 borrowing limit in time to avert a default.  “America has never not paid its bills,” Obama said in an
interview with the  Associated Press . “I don’t expect to get
there.”  The interview was released today as a partial shutdown of
the U.S. government entered its fifth day and less than two
weeks before an Oct. 17 deadline for raising the U.S. debt
ceiling. Obama said comments yesterday from House Speaker John Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , indicate that “Speaker Boehner is
willing to make sure that we don’t default.”  The U.S. president asked Americans for patience after
technological glitches have made it difficult for millions of
Americans to access a website that opened Oct. 1 for the six-month open enrollment period under the U.S. health-care law that
is his signature domestic policy.  “The website got overwhelmed by volume,” he said of the
higher than expected interest in the program. “The insurance
doesn’t start until January. So they’ll have plenty of time.”  Obama also said in the interview that U.S. intelligence
officials continue to believe  Iran  is “a year or more away”
from the ability to produce a nuclear weapon.  Redskins Name  The president also waded into the politics of professional
sports, saying while fans of the Washington Redskins football
team don’t mean to offend, keeping the name, a slur to Native
Americans, may not be worth “the real legitimate concerns” and
“I’d think about changing it.”  The federal government shutdown that has furloughed about
800,000 federal employees is becoming a prolonged deadlock that
is merging with the debate over the U.S. debt ceiling.  The U.S. will run out of borrowing authority on Oct. 17 and
will have $30 billion in cash after that. The country would be
unable to pay all its bills, including benefits, salaries and
interest, sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Unlike budget clashes, the current standoff revolves around
Republicans opposition to Obama’s health-care law. House Speaker
 John Boehner  is insisting Democrats make concessions on the 2010
Affordable Care Act to provide the funds to keep the government
open.  Obama canceled an eight-day trip to  Asia  to promote
economic and national security policy because of the government
shutdown. The Treasury Department said on Oct. 3 that breaching
the debt limit may have  catastrophic  results that last decades,
such as higher  interest rates  and slower growth.  Market Reaction  U.S. stocks rose yesterday on optimism lawmakers would come
to an agreement, pushing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index up 0.7
percent yesterday in  New York , after sliding during the previous
two days. Ten-year Treasury yields rose from almost a seven-week
low, increasing four basis points to 2.65 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  As the economy has revived, the  budget deficit  has shrunk
as a share of the economy: in June, it was 4.2 percent of gross
domestic product, down from 10.1 percent in February 2010 and
the narrowest since November 2008, when Obama was elected to his
first term, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from the
Treasury Department and the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  After a private meeting of House Republicans yesterday,
Boehner criticized Obama’s refusal to negotiate on any changes
to the health law.  “The White House’s refusal to negotiate is putting the
nation at risk of default,” Boehner spokesman  Brendan Buck  said
today.  “If we’re going to resolve this, we’re going to have to
work together.”  The Bureau of Labor Statistics didn’t release yesterday’s
monthly report on unemployment, repeating what it did in the
1996 shutdown. U.S. Trade Representative  Michael Froman  said in
a statement that the government wouldn’t be able to participate
in next week’s second round of negotiations on the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership in Brussels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  