-- Obama Considers Joy of Owning Sports Team After White House
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-10-05T18:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/obama-considers-joy-of-owning-sports-team-after-white-house-exit.html
President  Barack Obama , locked in a
bitter standoff with congressional Republicans that has shut
down much of the federal government for the first time in 17
years, is pondering his next career move: sports team owner.  Asked about criticism of the name of the  Washington
Redskins  football team, which has been called a racial slur by
some Native Americans and U.S. lawmakers, Obama said he would
consider changing it were he the owner. The football team’s
owner, Dan Snyder, has long resisted doing so.  The president, a sports fan, said in an interview with the
 Associated Press  that he didn’t have “a stake in this in the
sense that I’m not a part owner of any football team,” though
he went on to consider it as a possibility after leaving the
White House a little over three years from now.  “Maybe after I leave the presidency,” Obama said,
laughing, according to the transcript of the AP interview. “I
think it would be a lot of fun. Although, I’d probably play --
I’d probably look at a basketball team before I looked at a
football team. I know more about basketball than I do about
football.”  Should he decide, Democrat Obama would follow the opposite
path of his predecessor, President  George W. Bush , a Republican
who was a part owner of the Texas Rangers baseball team before
his career in the Oval Office.  Basketball Fan  Obama is an ardent basketball fan and has made an annual
tradition out of appearing on the ESPN television network to
make predictions for the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association ’s basketball tournament.  The president is a frequent player, as well. When his
campaigns wrapped up in 2008 and 2012, Obama spent part of each
Election Day shooting hoops at a gym in  Chicago . In 2012, he was
joined by former Chicago Bulls star Scottie Pippen.  Asked about the Bulls, his home team, at the close of his
interview, the president told AP that “I think they’re going to
be good this year.”  Redskins lawyer  Lanny Davis  said in an e-mailed statement
that the president “was apparently unaware that an April 2013
AP poll showed that eight out of 10 of all Americans in a
national sample don’t think the Washington Redskins name should
be changed.”  “Like devoted fans of the  Atlanta Braves , the  Cleveland
Indians  and the  Chicago Blackhawks  (from President Obama’s home
town ), we love our team and its name and, like those fans, we
do not intend to disparage or disrespect a racial or ethnic
group,” Davis said in the e-mail. “The name Washington
Redskins is 80 years old -- it’s our history and legacy and
tradition.”  Obama said he understood fans’ attachment to the team’s
name. Still, he said he would consider changing it, given that
many find it offensive.  “People get pretty attached to team names, mascots,” he
said. “I don’t think there are any Redskins fans that mean
offense. I’ve got to say that if I were the owner of the team
and I knew that there was a name of my team -- even if it had a
storied history -- that was offending a sizeable group of
people, I’d think about changing it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  