-- House Passes Retroactive Pay Bill for Furloughed Workers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r ,   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-10-05T19:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/house-passes-retroactive-pay-bill-for-furloughed-workers.html
(Corrects figure on  budget deficit  as a percentage of GDP
in ninth paragraph. For more on the shutdown, see EXT2.)  The fifth day of the partial shutdown
of the U.S. government brought no signs of a breakthrough as
House lawmakers passed a bill that would eventually reimburse
furloughed federal workers for lost pay.  The measure, which passed 407-0 today, was part of an
effort to “ease the pain” of the first shutdown since 1996,
said House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia. He and
fellow Republican leaders called on President  Barack Obama  and
Senate Democrats to negotiate on a spending deal.  “He’s here this weekend, we are here this weekend,”
Representative  Kevin McCarthy  of California, the No. 3
Republican in the House, told reporters today, noting Obama
canceled an Asia trip due to the shutdown. “This can all end.”  The shutdown has furloughed about 800,000 federal employees
and is becoming a prolonged deadlock that is merging with the
debate over raising the U.S. debt ceiling.  The U.S. Defense Department said today it would call back
most of its 400,000 furloughed workers. Defense Secretary Chuck
Hagel said legislation recently signed by Obama, which ensures
service members are paid on time, allows the military to call
back civilian employees. About half of all the furloughed
federal employees work for the Pentagon.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , who on the Senate floor
today continued to blame Republicans for the government
shutdown, said yesterday he would determine how to handle the
House retroactive pay measure when the Senate receives it. The
Senate convened at noon today. No votes were scheduled.  ‘Alice in Wonderland’  Reid said if the shutdown lasts three or four weeks, the
costs to the economy could rival Superstorm Sandy. Today he
likened the House pay plan to an “Alice in Wonderland” trick,
saying Republicans had spent the past two years seeking to
undermine federal employees and their benefits.  “It’s really cruel to tell workers they’ll get their back
pay once the government opens and then refuse to open the
government,” Reid said, calling on the House to pass a spending
bill without conditions.  The  U.S. budget deficit  in June was 4.2 percent of gross
domestic product, down from 10.1 percent in February 2010 and
the narrowest since November 2008, when Obama was elected to his
first term, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from the
Treasury Department and the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  Republican Proposal  Republicans’ most recent proposal for opening the
government would postpone for one year the mandate for
individuals to purchase health insurance, mirroring the delay
the administration granted to employers. It also would remove
employer contributions toward health insurance for members of
Congress, their staffs and political appointees.  “When we have a crisis like we’re in the middle of this
week, the American people expect their leaders to sit down and
try to resolve their differences,” House Speaker  John Boehner 
said yesterday, insisting that Democrats make concessions on the
2010 health care law.  Obama repeated his position yesterday that Boehner should
buck the majority of  House Republicans  and vote on a short-term
spending bill without policy conditions.  ‘Allow a Vote’  “If Speaker Boehner will simply allow a vote to take
place, we can end this shutdown,” Obama said during a lunchtime
walk to a sandwich shop near the White House. “And a whole
bunch of families not just here in Washington but all across the
country will have the certainty that paychecks will be coming,
that they’ll be able to make their mortgage, that they’ll be
able to pay their expenses and they’ll be able to look after
their families.”  There’s a growing group of House Republicans, including
Blake Farenthold of Texas and  Dennis Ross  of  Florida  who both
have ties to the limited-government  Tea Party  movement, saying
they’d support a broader agreement that doesn’t include
Obamacare changes as the cornerstone. A third Tea Party-backed
Republican lawmaker, Representative Doug Lamborn of  Colorado ,
said he’s willing to back off demands on the health care law.  “We’ve tried a lot of things and used just about every
arrow in our quiver against Obamacare,” Lamborn said today.
“It has not been successful, so I think we do have to move on
to the larger issues of the debt ceiling and the overall
budget.”  Market Optimism  U.S. stocks rose on optimism lawmakers would come to an
agreement on the shutdown and the debt ceiling, after BlackRock
Inc.’s Laurence D. Fink and Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said they expect that the standoff will be resolved
without a debt default.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.7 percent
yesterday in New York. Ten-year Treasury yields rose from almost
a seven-week low, increasing four basis points to 2.65 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The effects of the shutdown continued to ripple through the
government and the country.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics didn’t release yesterday’s
monthly report on unemployment, repeating what it did in the
1996 shutdown. U.S. Trade Representative  Michael Froman  said in
a statement that the government wouldn’t be able to participate
in next week’s second round of negotiations on the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership in Brussels.  Lockheed Furloughs  Lockheed Martin Corp., the largest U.S. defense contractor,
said it will furlough about 3,000 employees on Oct. 7 because of
the effects of the shutdown, including the inability of workers
to get to their jobs in shuttered government facilities and a
halt to government inspections.  Other government services continued, including Social
Security benefits, mail delivery and air traffic control.  Representative  John Fleming , a Louisiana Republican, said
Boehner told members yesterday that he had no intention of
“rolling over” to Democrats’ demands for spending and debt-limit bills without policy conditions. He said his constituents
aren’t concerned about the shutdown.  “All they want to talk about was the drag of Obamacare,”
Fleming told reporters. “I don’t think many of my constituents
even know that there is a shutdown, or even care.”  House Republicans continued their strategy of passing bills
to fund parts of the government, such as national parks, weather
monitoring and infant nutrition.  Republicans’ best hope was to keep sending piecemeal bills
and wait for public sentiment to change, said Representative Hal Rogers of  Kentucky , chairman of the House Appropriations
Committee.  “The public is going to finally say to the president,
‘Look, at least sit down and talk,’” he said.  Veto Threat  The Obama administration has threatened to veto the
separate spending measures. Giving in now would only embolden
Republicans to seek more concessions, said Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat.  “The hope is maybe once the Tea Party has realized it’s
not getting its way on shutting down the government, that they
won’t try the same stunt on the debt ceiling,” Schumer said.
“If they do, by the way, the heat on them will be much, much
greater than it is now.”  The U.S. will run out of borrowing authority on Oct. 17 and
will have $30 billion in cash after that. The country would be
unable to pay all its bills, including benefits, salaries and
interest, sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  No Default  Boehner said he doesn’t want the U.S. to default on its
debt. He also said he will reject Obama’s call for a debt-limit
increase free of policy conditions.  “If we’re going to raise the amount of money we can
borrow, we ought to do something about our spending problem and
the lack of economic growth in our country,” he said.  Last month, Boehner outlined a debt-limit strategy that
included lighter regulations, cuts in entitlement programs and
approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline.  The outline added means-testing in Medicare, changing
malpractice law and eliminating social services block grants.
Also being considered was a proposal to eliminate a requirement
that gives regulators authority to seize and dismantle financial
firms if their failure could damage the stability of the U.S.
financial system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  