-- Treasuries Fall First Time in Four Weeks on Bets Impasse to End
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-10-05T04:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/treasuries-fall-first-time-in-four-weeks-on-bets-impasse-to-end.html
Treasuries dropped for the first time
in four weeks on bets lawmakers will end the partial shutdown of
the U.S. government in time to reach an accord on extending the
federal debt limit, averting lasting damage to the economy.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes rose from a seven-week
low, while trading in the narrowest range since April. The
Treasury Department said on Oct. 3 that breaching the debt limit
may have  catastrophic  results that last decades, such as higher
 interest rates  and slower growth. Investors sold bills due
closest to the Oct. 17 deadline, pushing one-month rates to the
highest level since 2009. Even if the government remains closed,
the U.S. will sell $64 billion of notes and bonds next week.  “We’ve been through this before,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a
Purchase, New York-based fixed-income strategist for Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney. “If you get any resolution to these
issues, I think it paves the way” for higher yields.  Benchmark 10-year U.S. note  yields  increased for the first
time since the five days ended Sept. 6, adding two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.65 percent this week in New York,
Bloomberg Bond Trader data show. The price of the 2.5 percent
debt due August 2023 declined 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face
amount, to 98 3/4.  The yields traded this week  between  2.66 percent and 2.58
percent. The bottom of the range, reached on Oct. 3, was the
lowest level since Aug. 12.  Rates on bills due Oct. 24 climbed to 0.12 percent, from
negative 0.01 percent on Sept. 27, as investors demanded extra
compensation for the risk of holding securities maturing closest
to the debt-ceiling deadline.  Borrowing Authority  The U.S. will run out of borrowing authority in less than
two weeks and will have $30 billion in cash after that. It would
be unable to pay all of its bills sometime between Oct. 22 and
Oct. 31, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Financial markets suggest that most investors anticipate
U.S. lawmakers will raise the limit on the nation’s debt and
avoid a default on  government securities , Mohamed El-Erian,
chief executive and co-chief investment officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., said yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . Pimco is the
world’s biggest manager of bond mutual funds.  “The market expects as we get closer to Oct. 17 some
realism will start occurring on  Capitol Hill  and politicians
will avoid what potentially could be quite catastrophic both for
the U.S. and the global economy,” El-Erian said from the
company’s headquarters in  Newport Beach ,  California .  Divided Republicans  House Republicans  are divided between those who insist on
confrontation over the nation’s 2010 health-care law, President
 Barack Obama ’s signature legislative achievement, and those who
say they would support Senate Democrats’ spending bill. That
measure would end the closure without conditions attached.  The last government shutdown lasted 21 days in 1995-1996.  House Speaker  John Boehner  has been telling fellow
Republicans he won’t allow the U.S. to default on its debt, even
if that requires Democratic votes, according to two Republican
congressional aides. Party leaders are trying to package other
Republican priorities with an increase of the $16.7 trillion
debt ceiling for a vote as soon as next week.  A default by the U.S. would be unprecedented and has the
potential to freeze credit markets and spark a financial crisis
“that could echo the events of 2008 or worse,” the Treasury
Department said in its report this week.  Treasury  one-month  bill rates climbed yesterday to 0.19
percent, matching a 45-month high reached in November 2012,
while  three-month  bill rates reached 0.03 percent. The inversion
of the  spread  this week was the biggest since September 2008.  Bill Aversion  “You’re seeing an aversion to the bills on and around the
date when the debt ceiling might be breached,” Dan Mulholland,
head of Treasury trading at BNY Mellon Capital Markets in  New
York , said Oct. 3. “A lot of these short Treasury bills are
typically held by accounts that use them for collateral. They
don’t want to be in a situation where they can’t make good on a
collateral payment.”  The U.S. will auction $30 billion of three-year notes on
Oct. 8, $21 billion of 10-year debt on Oct. 9 and $13 billion of
30-year bonds on Oct. 10.  Credit-default swaps insuring against losses on U.S.
Treasuries almost doubled this week as the deadline for raising
the nation’s debt limit approached. The cost of one-year
contracts jumped to 62 basis points on Oct. 3, from 33 basis
points, according to date provider CMA.  Trade volumes are also climbing, with swaps on Treasuries
the 15th most active of 1,000 entities tracked by the Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp. in the week through Sept. 27, up from
147th the previous period.  Fed Purchases  The U.S. shutdown may help delay a reduction in the Fed’s
purchases of Treasuries and mortgage bonds, according to
Citigroup Inc. Policy makers said Sept. 18 they want more proof
of an economic recovery before tapering their $85 billion-a-month program. The government postponed the September payrolls
report yesterday because nonessential services were closed.  “The Fed has told us they’re on hold for quite some time,
and we now are not going to get any economic readings for
probably a couple of months that are accurate at least,” Michael Plavnik, head of the short-term interest-rate trading desk at
Citigroup in  London , said Oct. 1 on Bloomberg TV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  