-- Tropical Storm Karen ‘Very Weak’ on Way to Gulf Coast
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-10-05T18:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/tropical-storm-karen-very-weak-on-way-to-gulf-coast.html
Karen, barely holding on to tropical
storm strength, stalled in the  Gulf of Mexico  on a curving path
that’s expected to take the system across Louisiana before final
landfall in southwestern Alabama.  The storm, with sustained winds of 40 miles (65 kilometers)
per hour, was some 130 miles south-southwest of the port of
Morgan City, Louisiana as of 2 p.m.  New York  time, the National
Hurricane Center said  in an advisory . It would be downgraded to
a tropical depression if sustained winds drop below 39 mph.  “This system is very, very weak,” said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.
“It’s just barely a tropical storm at 40 mph and is really on
the cusp of depression status.”  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  began resuming offshore operations and a
coastal Louisiana parish lifted a mandatory evacuation order.
Even so, gusty winds, heavy rains and flooding threaten the
southeastern U.S. for the next several days. Once Karen goes
ashore, remains are expected to move across central  North
Carolina  toward Washington, according to AccuWeather Inc. in
 State College , Pennsylvania.  About 48 percent of the Gulf’s natural-gas production and
62 percent of the oil output was closed because of the storm,
the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement said
today. In all, 271 platforms and 20 rigs were evacuated,
accounting for 866,807 barrels a day of oil and about 1.8
billion cubic feet of gas.  Second Strike  Karen is  the 11th named storm  of the  Atlantic hurricane
season , which began June 1 and ends Nov. 30, and would be the
second to hit the U.S. this year. Tropical Storm Andrea made
landfall in northwestern Florida in June and then moved up the
East Coast.  Karen was disrupted after encountering dry air, while high
shear -- when winds blow at varying speeds or directions at
different altitudes -- blew the biggest thunderstorms away from
the center,  breaking up its structure , forecasters said.  Strong winds out of the west “have driven dry air from the
western Gulf of Mexico into Karen’s core, making it difficult
for heavy thunderstorms to build on the west and south sides of
Karen’s center of circulation,”  Jeff Masters , co-founder of
 Weather Underground , wrote in his blog.  Depression Tomorrow  The system’s strength will probably be little changed
before landfall and the storm is expected to become a depression
tomorrow, the center said.  A tropical storm warning was in place from Morgan City to
the mouth of the Pearl River on the Louisiana-Mississippi line,
while a storm watch was in effect for New Orleans, Lake Maurepas
and Lake Pontchartrain and from east of the Pearl to Indian Pass
in the  Florida panhandle .  Forecasters yesterday ended a  hurricane watch  for parts of
the Gulf Coast. Officials in  Plaquemines Parish , Louisiana,
which hugs the Mississippi River south of New Orleans to the
Gulf, changed its mandatory evacuation order to a voluntary one,
according to the parish’s website.  The  official track  has Karen crossing  Louisiana  southeast
of Houma late tonight and early tomorrow, then going ashore
south of Fairhope, Alabama, as a depression. The system may
drive tides as much as 3 feet (1 meters) higher than normal from
Terrebonne Bay in the Mississippi delta to Cedar Key, Florida,
and drop as much as 6 inches (15 centimeters) of rain.  “The main impact is probably going to be heavy rainfall,”
Dan Pydynowski, a senior meteorologist at AccuWeather, said by
phone. “There will probably be enough wind, at least on the
coast, that there could still be power outages and some minor
damage. If you have to deal with a tropical system, this is a
best case scenario because it’s not all that strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  