-- Some Tea Party-Backed Lawmakers Yield in Obamacare Fight
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-10-05T20:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/some-tea-party-backed-lawmakers-yield-in-obamacare-fight.html
The first cracks are appearing in the
 Tea Party ’s push to dismantle the nation’s health law as three
House lawmakers with ties to the movement said they’d back a
U.S. spending deal that doesn’t center on ending Obamacare.  Republican Representatives Blake Farenthold of  Texas , Doug Lamborn of  Colorado  and  Dennis Ross  of  Florida , all of whom
identify with the Tea Party, said they’d back an agreement to
end the government shutdown and lift the debt ceiling if it
included major revisions to U.S. tax law, significant changes to
Medicare and Social Security and other policy changes.  The partial government shutdown entered its fifth day since
lawmakers failed to authorize spending before the Oct. 1 start
of the fiscal year. The budget standoff started when Republicans
insisted on choking off funding for President  Barack Obama ’s
Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare, while the president has
refused to negotiate.  “The president seems unwilling to give an inch on
Obamacare, so, alright, where can we find other reforms?”
Farenthold said in an interview at the Capitol today just after
a vote on giving furloughed workers retroactive pay. “If we can
make the same or bigger difference doing something other than
Obamacare, I don’t see why we wouldn’t do it.”  Other lawmakers backed by the Tea Party movement, including
Republican Representative  Jim Jordan  of  Ohio , are refusing to
budge on their Obamacare stance. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said today that Republicans are demanding “fairness”
under the health-care law.  “The administration continues to give special treatment to
big business and to special interests and have left the working-class Americans out,” Cantor told reporters. “Just give them
the same treatment.”  Not Budging  Representative Raul Labrador, an Idaho Republican and
leading voice in the fight against Obamacare, said a change to
the law “has to be on the table.”  “A one-year delay is still reasonable to ask for,”
Labrador said in an interview.  Lawmakers tied to the Tea Party led a push last month to
convince Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  to fight for
major changes to Obamacare as part of the budget debate. That
stalemate, which led to the first government shutdown since
1996, is now bleeding into a debate over the nation’s $16.7
trillion  debt  limit, which must be raised before Oct. 17 to
avoid a U.S. default.  “We’ve tried a lot of things and used just about every
arrow in our quiver against Obamacare,” Lamborn, 59, said
today. “It has not been successful, so I think we do have to
move on to the larger issues of the debt ceiling and the overall
budget.”  Debt Ceiling  Lamborn said he would back a debt limit increase if the
deal included an equal amount of spending cuts. He said he’s
also seeking a deal that includes instructions for major tax-code revisions.  “I recognize the writing on the wall,” he said.  Farenthold, 51, was a conservative radio talk-show host
when he won election in 2010, defeating 28-year-incumbent
Democrat Solomon Ortiz.  The Obamacare battle, he said, was for “another day.”  “It will collapse under its own weight, especially when
the young people -- who are going to be under the individual
mandate -- start screaming at what they’re having to pay for,”
he said.  Farenthold said he’d back a spending deal with tax code
changes and entitlement reforms aimed at “getting people who
are able to work, back to work.”  Position Shift  Ross, ranked among the House’s most conservative members by
both the  Club for Growth  and the  American Conservative Union ,
said he shifted his position because the shutdown hasn’t
resulted in changes to the Affordable Care Act. The shutdown
also could hurt the party, he said.  “We’ve lost the CR battle,” Ross, referring to the
continuing resolution to authorize  government spending , said in
an interview. “We need to move on and take whatever we can find
in the debt limit.”  Ross, 53, is pushing for other changes, such as means-testing for Medicare payments and switching to a formula that
may make Social Security beneficiaries’ cost-of-living increases
rise more slowly. Those would be “major reforms” that should
win Republican votes.  “I’m not questioning my leadership. I’m just suggesting
that we need to take stock of where we’ve come and realize what
it’s going to take for where we want to go,” Ross said, adding
that he still favors changing the health-care law.  Ross said Republicans can claim victory for recent spending
cuts, which he said are the first consecutive-year reductions in
more than 50 years.  ‘Be Realistic’  “We’ve got to be realistic about that and not go so far as
that we do things that shut down the government to a great
degree or default on our debt,” Ross said. “There’s room to
make sure we continue on our course and not have catastrophic
events.”  A spending deal would clear the way for compromises on
other issues, such as immigration policy and revising the U.S.
tax code, he said.  “There are a whole lot of other issues that haunted us at
the election other than Obamacare,” Ross said. “I would hope
there’s at least enough of us to constitute a majority of
reasonable people that realize we need to give and take.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  