-- U.S. Holds One-Point Lead as Darkness Halts Presidents Cup Golf
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-10-05T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/u-s-holds-one-point-lead-as-darkness-halts-presidents-cup-golf.html
The U.S. maintained its one-point
lead over the International team as the second day of golf’s
Presidents Cup was suspended due to darkness.  Thunderstorms plagued play and forced a delay of 2 1/2
hours yesterday at Muirfield Village Golf Club in Dublin,  Ohio .
Four of the day’s six foursome matches -- or alternating shot
with the same ball -- will be completed this morning before the
two teams play a total of 10 other matches.  “It’s going to be a long weekend, that’s for sure,” Adam Scott, the Masters Tournament winner from  Australia , told
reporters. “Time to go rest up.”  The U.S. holds a 4 1/2 to 3 1/2 lead as the American duo of
Phil Mickelson and Keegan Bradley defeated a team of Australian
Jason Day and Canadian Graham DeLaet 4-and-3, meaning they held
an unassailable four-hole lead with three holes to play, in one
of yesterday’s two concluded matches.  “We seemed to feed off each other,” Bradley, who often
plays practice rounds with Mickelson at U.S. PGA Tour events,
told reporters. “I love showing off in front of him and I think
he likes showing off in front of me. It’s a lot of fun.”  International Point  In the day’s other completed match, South Africa’s Ernie Els and  Zimbabwe ’s Brendon de Jonge topped Americans Hunter Mahan and Bill Haas by the same 4-and-3 score.  In suspended matches, Steve Stricker and Jordan Spieth have
a three-hole lead on South Africans Branden Grace and Richard Sterne through 14 holes; Angel Cabrera of Argentina and
Australia’s Marc Leishman are 1-up on  Webb Simpson  and Brandt Snedeker through 13 holes; Tiger Woods and Matt Kuchar are 3-up
on South Africans Louis Oosthuizen and Charl Schwartzel through
12, and  Japan ’s Hideki Matsuyama and Scott are 4-up on PGA
Championship winner Jason Dufner and Zach Johnson through 11
holes.  After the suspended matches are completed in the morning,
the two teams will play five fourball matches, with each golfer
playing his own ball and the lowest score winning the hole,
followed by five more foursome matches.  The biennial team event will conclude with 12 singles
matches tomorrow. The Americans are seeking their fifth straight
championship in the Presidents Cup, which began in 1994. The
U.S. has a 7-1-1 record in the matches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  