-- U.S. Government Shutdown a Momentary Disruption, Says Kerry
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-10-05T08:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/u-s-government-shutdown-a-momentary-disruption-says-kerry.html
The partial U.S. government shutdown
is imperiling U.S. interests overseas by delaying aid to Israel
and potentially weakening sanctions against  Iran , U.S. Secretary
of State  John Kerry  said.  At the same time, Kerry insisted the shutdown won’t have a
long-term impact on the Obama administration’s foreign policy or
the  U.S. economy , calling it a moment of “political silliness”
forced upon the country by the  House of Representatives .  Kerry has stepped in for President  Barack Obama  at the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Bali after Obama
canceled his trip to the region to seek an end to the
Congressional impasse.  “There are momentary disruptions and the momentary
disruption always has the ability to have an impact,” Kerry
told reporters in Bali today. “To all of our friends and foes
watching around the world, let me be crystal clear: Do not
mistake this momentary episode in American politics” as
anything more than that.  Obama’s decision to skip APEC may add to growing anxiety in
 Asia  that the U.S. is too preoccupied with internal political
challenges to pursue its so-called Asia pivot, Obama’s second-term foreign-policy priority to enhance U.S. standing in a
region adjusting to China’s economic and military emergence. The
U.S. is seeking to expand trade and defense ties in the region,
especially by finalizing the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership
free trade pact.  APEC leaders gathering in Bali understand Obama’s decision
and would have done the same if in his shoes, Kerry said. Obama
had been presented a challenge “by a small group of people
within one branch of the United States Congress.”  “It is not only within Congress’s power to prevent the
shutdown, it is also within Congress’s power to end it, to end
it now, to end it today,” he said.  Obama’s absence meant he could not hold planned meetings
with the leaders of Russia and  China , which undermined his
agenda in the short term, Kerry said.  U.S. lawmakers “need to
think long and hard about the message that we send to the world
when we can’t get our own act together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Bali at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  