-- Much Weaker Tropical Storm Karen to Move East to Florida
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-10-06T05:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/much-weaker-tropical-storm-karen-to-move-east-to-florida.html
Tropical Storm Karen was downgraded
to a depression and storm warnings were discontinued last night
as the weather system churned in the  Gulf of Mexico  before
heading toward landfall in northern Florida.  Karen’s sustained winds fell to 35 miles (55 kilometers)
per hour as the storm sat about 120 miles south of  Morgan City ,
Louisiana, as of 11 p.m.  New York  time, the National Hurricane
Center said  in its final advisory .  “This storm is almost nonexistent at this point,” said
Phil Vida, an operational meteorologist at  MDA Weather Services 
in Gaithersburg, Maryland. “What’s left of it is not having
much of its own steering power, and is expected to get pushed
eastward with less intensity as a cold front approaches it.”  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  began resuming offshore operations and a
coastal Louisiana parish lifted a mandatory evacuation order as
the storm’s threat lessened. Even so, gusty winds, heavy rains
and flooding threaten the Gulf Coast.  About 48 percent of the Gulf’s natural-gas production and
62 percent of the oil output was closed because of the storm,
the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement said
today. In all, 271 platforms and 20 rigs were evacuated,
accounting for 866,807 barrels a day of oil and about 1.8
billion cubic feet of gas.  Karen is  the 11th named storm  of the  Atlantic hurricane
season , which began June 1 and ends Nov. 30, and would be the
second to hit the U.S. this year. Tropical Storm Andrea made
landfall in northwestern Florida in June and then moved up the
East Coast.  Strong winds out of the west “have driven dry air from the
western Gulf of Mexico into Karen’s core, making it difficult
for heavy thunderstorms to build on the west and south sides of
Karen’s center of circulation,”  Jeff Masters , co-founder of
 Weather Underground , wrote in his blog.  “It’s really lost a lot of its punch,” Vida said by
phone. “There will be some minor wind and surge, but small
stuff, under 1 foot. It’s looking a little less threatening than
it did even just 24 hours ago as far as rainfall is concerned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  