-- Wal-Mart Aims to Reach India Agreement With Bharti in Few Weeks
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   W o n g
-- 2013-10-05T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/wal-mart-aims-for-india-agreement-with-bharti-in-few-weeks-2-.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, said it is in talks with Indian partner Bharti
Enterprises Pvt. on its future business plan and aims to reach
an agreement in the next few weeks.  Wal-Mart has a “very good” relationship with Bharti and
has had multiple conversations with billionaire owner Sunil Mittal in the past few days to determine the next steps,  Scott
Price , head of Wal-Mart’s Asia operations, said yesterday. His
comments come after local media reports in  India  suggested that
Bharti is seeking to exit the joint venture due to Wal-Mart’s
lack of progress in expanding Indian operations.  “We are having very productive discussions with Bharti,
there are multiple options and we are working through what those
options might be,” Price said in a telephone interview. “I
would hope probably in the next several weeks we will reach an
agreement with them. But no matter what happens, there is no
pressure in the relationship.”  While the nation changed laws in September last year to
allow foreign retailers to own majority stakes in multibrand
retail chains, no global retailers have sought such licenses
yet. The government also loosened rules covering sourcing,
infrastructure investment and store location in August, in an
effort to woo Wal-Mart, Tesco Plc and other global chains to
open retail stores in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy.  Sticking Point  Under the recently amended rules, foreign-owned retailers
will have to buy 30 percent of manufactured products from small-and medium-sized local firms with less than $2 million invested
in factories and machinery. Earlier rules were stricter,
defining “small and medium” companies as those with
investments of under $1 million. Even after these changes, the
entry barriers for foreign retailers “aren’t workable,” Price
said.  Wal-Mart’s Asia head said these rules still don’t provide a
level playing field for international retailers compared to
local rivals, and the need to comply with them is the “biggest
sticking point” holding back the company’s foray into
traditional retail in India.  “Until the sourcing issue is resolved, I believe no
foreign company will apply and can comply,” Price said from
Bali where he was attending the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum. He is the chairman of the National Center for
APEC, a U.S. business group. “We are not interested in
investing until that’s clear.  “I’m hopeful that the negotiations that we have been
undertaking for some time with the government means that there’s
an opportunity for us to invest directly into retail in India,”
he said.  The Bharti and Wal-Mart joint venture operates wholesale
cash-and-carry stores, that are similar to  Costco Wholesale
Corp. (COST)  outlets in that they allow entry only to registered
members who would include restaurants and local retailers.
Foreign investment in such stores is subject to fewer government
restrictions in India than retail outlets.  Store Expansion  The venture opened its first wholesale store in the
northern city of Amritsar in May 2009, and now operates 20 such
outlets in the country. New store openings have slowed, with the
company’s most recent being almost a year ago, according to its
 website .  The halt in store expansion comes as the company faced two
government probes and carried out an internal investigation on
possible violations of U.S. anti-corruption laws in India. The
American retailer has also suspended some senior staff in recent
months.  CEO Departure  In June, Wal-Mart’s chief executive officer of the India
joint venture, Raj Jain, left the company amid government and
internal investigations. His departure came seven months after
Pankaj Madan, the venture’s chief financial officer, was among
executives suspended. Madan has since been hired by billionaire
Mittal’s  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s biggest mobile-phone
operator, the Economic Times  reported  in August.  Price said yesterday the company is putting in place better
compliance mechanisms and declined to comment on expansion
plans.  “We love the cash-and-carry format. We are committed to
India,” he said. “The process by which we have stood back to
reinforce our compliance and to invest in the basics of the
business has not signaled a lack of interest in the format.”  The Economic Times  reported  on Sept. 12 that Wal-Mart was
considering whether to continue its business or exit its
operations in India, and that the company expected to make a
decision by the end of the month. It will also decide whether it
wants to keep Bharti as its partner, according to the article.  “Like in many instances, speculation has got nothing to do
with reality,” Price said. “We aren’t talking to other
partners. The relationship is good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  