-- Tylenol Copycat Outlook Boosts Perrigo: Israel Overnight
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-10-05T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/tylenol-copycat-outlook-boosts-perrigo-israel-overnight.html
Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , the largest maker of
generic over-the-counter medicines in the U.S., posted the
biggest weekly rally in seven months in New York on prospects
sales will rise to a record.  Shares of Perrigo, which entered the Tel Aviv’s benchmark
index after buying B’nei Brak, Israel-based Agis Industries Ltd.
in 2005, jumped 4.3 percent to $129.05 for the week, trading 2.7
percent above the Israeli stock. The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity
Index of the most-traded Israeli companies in the U.S. had the
biggest weekly advance in two months, led by  Mellanox (MLNX) 
Technologies Ltd.  Sales for the maker of lower-priced, store-brand versions
of products such as Johnson & Johnson’s Tylenol pain reliever
will  rise  to $4.1 billion in fiscal year 2014, according to the
average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
Allegan, Michigan-based company said in July it agreed to buy
Irish drugmaker Elan Corp., gaining a low-tax base for
international expansion. The deal should close by the end of the
year, Perrigo and Elan said.  “It’s a good business that they are in and they have a
dominant position in a business that has high barriers to
entry,” Jason Gerberry, analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. said by
phone from  Boston  on Oct. 4. “A factor that could provide
upside to sales this year is if the Elan deal closes earlier
than expected.”  Perrigo sells non-prescription products for conditions such
as acid indigestion and nasal congestion, as well as generic
drugs, nutritional supplements and animal treatments, according
to its  website .  Tax Savings  Elan’s purchase allows Perrigo to move its domicile to
Ireland, where the corporate income-tax rate is 12.5 percent.
The acquisition will result in more than $150 million of
recurring after-tax annual operating expense and tax savings,
the company said in July. It also gives the acquirer royalties
on the multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri, which Elan discovered
and sold to  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  on Feb. 6.  A 24 percent rally in Perrigo this year has driven its
valaution to 18.8 times estimated earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. While that’s almost in line with the
three-year average, 11 out of the 16 analysts tracked by
Bloomberg recommend buying the stock.  The Bloomberg Israel-US gauge jumped 2 percent to 100.83
for the week. The measure capped its fifth weekly advance in the
longest winning streak since 2011.  Mellanox, the Israeli maker of equipment that speeds data
transfers, surged 11 percent to $39.80 in the biggest weekly
increase since July 2012. Rajesh Ghai, an analyst at Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC raised his rating on the stock to buy
from hold on prospects the company will benefit from cloud
demand.  ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. (CKSW) , the Israeli developer
whose largest investor is  George Soros ’s fund, sank 6.2 percent
to $5.89, the biggest drop in the Bloomberg Israel-US Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  