-- White Diamond Sells for Record $30.8 Million at Sotheby’s
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2013-10-07T13:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-05/zao-wou-ki-work-sets-record-11-million-at-sotheby-s-asia.html
A gemstone sold for HK$238.68 million
($30.8 million) in Hong Kong, the most paid for a white diamond
at auction, as more records tumbled at Sotheby’s.  The largest D-color flawless type IIA diamond had been
estimated to sell for HK$220 million to HK$280 million. The oval
118.28 carat-diamond was mined in southern Africa in 2011.  Earlier, a painting by  Zeng Fanzhi  sold for HK$180.4
million ($23.3 million) including fees, the most for an Asian
contemporary artist at auction, as 16 artist records were set in
the five-day marathon which ends tomorrow.  The sales reflected pent-up demand and the quality of works
available to mark Sotheby’s 40th anniversary in  Asia , dealers
said. Chinese, U.S. and European buyers are being joined by more
collectors from  Southeast Asia .  “They want their artists to be mentioned in the same
breath as Zeng Fanzhi or Zhang Xiaogong or Hirst or Richter as a
symbol of how strong they are on the global stage,” Hong Kong-based dealer James Hennessy said of demand from the  Philippines ,
 Indonesia  and  Singapore .  Kimberley Process  Though Sotheby’s would not disclose the identity of the
seller or who cut the diamond sold today, it said the gem had
undergone scrutiny by the  Kimberley Process , a joint government,
industry and civil society initiative to stem the flow of
 conflict diamonds  and the sale complied with the U.S. Clean
Diamond Trade Act.  “We have to check everything,” said  Patti Wong , chairman
of Sotheby’s Asia. “All rough diamonds have to be accounted
for.”  The diamond, bought by a private telephone bidder, was the
top lot in today’s jewelry sale that raised HK$744 million,
Sotheby’s said.  Zeng’s 2001 oil painting “The Last Supper” had been
estimated to sell for more than HK$80 million ($10.3 million) at
hammer prices. People in the saleroom on Oct. 5 cheered during
the bidding battle and as the hammer fell to a telephone buyer.  The work is from Switzerland-based Belgian couple Myriam
and Guy Ullens de Schooten, who are selling off parts of what’s
considered one of the best private collections of contemporary
Chinese art.  Evening Sale  It was one of 62 works offered during the evening sale of
Asian contemporary and modern art that earned HK$1.13 billion,
the New York-based company said.  Zeng’s work is based on  Leonardo da Vinci ’s wall painting
in a style that recalls  Francis Bacon . Nearly four meters (13
feet) long and 2.2 meters high, it shows Christ and his 12
disciples wearing masks and communist Young Pioneers uniforms
seated at a table strewn with watermelon fragments.  It was sold to a private bidder who has agreed to honor a
commitment by the Ullens to lend the work to the Musee de L’Art
Moderne de la Ville de Paris in an exhibition opening Oct. 18,
said Alexander Branczik who took the winning telephone bid.  The Zeng work overtook  Zhang Xiaogang ’s HK$79 million
record for a Chinese contemporary work and a sculpture by
Japan’s Takashi Murakami that sold for US$15.1 million at
 Sotheby’s (BID)   New York  in May 2008, Sotheby’s said.  Zao Triptych  Earlier a triptych by Chinese abstract painter Zao Wou-ki
sold for HK$85.2 million ($11 million). The price was the most
paid at auction for the artist, who died in April, beating the
HK$69 million figure set in 2011.  A work by Juan Luna sold for HK$25.88 million, a Philippine
auction record, nearly five times its high estimate of HK$5.5
million. A painting by Pan Yuliang sold for HK$17.44 million,
setting a record for the Chinese woman artist who died in 1977.  Indonesian artist Rudi Mantofani’s painting “Red Shadow”
sold for HK$3.64 million, a record for him. Among other artist
records set were German Walter Spies, whose 1934 Balinese scene
“A View From the Heights” sold for HK$31.48 million, and
Singapore-based Chen Wen Hsi, whose 1950s abstract work
“Market” sold for HK$13.24 million.  Sotheby’s said the 3,571-lot event, is the largest and most
expensive sale series it has staged in  Hong Kong  and carried a
presale estimate of as much as HK$3.8 billion.  The event started with two days of wine auctions, including
vintages from the cellars of Chateau Haut-Brion that raised a
total of HK$94 million. After three days of sales, Sotheby’s
raised HK$1.61 billion.  Today’s diamond price surpassed the $26.7 million paid for
an unmounted 101.73-carat pear-shaped D-color Flawless Type IIA
white stone at Christie’s International in Geneva on May 15.  The sales end tomorrow with auctions of watches, porcelain,
Chinese ceramics and works of art.  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  Jeremy
Gerard  on U.S. theater,  Martin Gayford  on European art,
 Hephzibah Anderson  on books and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 