-- Dr. Seuss Tale ‘The Lorax’ Tops Weekend Box Office With $70.2 Million Take
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-03-06T02:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/-lorax-tops-box-office-with-70-2-million-in-ticket-sales.html
“Dr. Seuss’s The Lorax,” based on
the popular children’s book, was the top weekend film in the
U.S. and  Canada , taking in $70.2 million for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
 Universal Pictures  in the biggest opening weekend this year.  The teen comedy “Project X,” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s
 Warner Bros ., had sales of $21.1 million in its debut,
researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Sales from the two films helped sustain a nine-week surge
in ticket sales that began Jan. 8, when the surprise hit “The
Devil Inside” led the weekend box office. Revenue this year is
$1.8 billion, up 19 percent from 2011, and attendance has
increased 22 percent, according to Hollywood.com.  “Right now, the box office is on fire, there’s no question
about it,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
Hollywood.com’s box-office division. “There’s been an
incredible variety of films. The old adage ‘Something for
everybody’ really has held true.”  In “The Lorax,” written by the children’s author Theodor Seuss Geisel, known as Dr. Seuss, a 12-year-old boy battles to
win the affection of a girl and to restore nature in his overly
industrialized world.  DeVito, Swift, Efron  In the process, he learns the story of the Lorax, an
acerbic creature who tried to save trees from encroaching
developers. The computer-animated film features the voices of
Danny DeVito,  Taylor Swift  and Zac Efron.  “The Lorax” was expected to have opening-weekend sales of
$44 million, the estimate of BoxOffice.com. Previous Dr. Seuss
films, such as “How the Grinch Stole Christmas” and “The Cat
in the Hat,” have drawn between $38 million and $55 million in
their opening weekends, Dergarabedian said.  By comparison, Disney-Pixar’s “Cars 2” had sales of $66.1
million in its debut weekend last June and went on to take in
$191.5 million in the U.S. and Canada, according to Box Office
Mojo.  “‘The Lorax’ absolutely blew away expectations,”
Dergarabedian said yesterday by telephone. “There really hasn’t
been a big animated film for the family audience this year. This
was like the manifestation of the hunger of the family audience
to have an animated film.”  “Act of Valor,” last weekend’s top movie, fell to third
place with sales of $13.6 million. The Relativity Media LLC
film, featuring active U.S. Navy SEAL forces, has generated
$45.1 million in revenue since it opened on Feb. 24.  SEAL Teams  Directors Scott Waugh and Mike McCoy used the active-duty
SEALs to create realistic action scenes, such as a raid on a
drug compound. In the film, the commandos are out to rescue a
missing CIA agent played by Roselyn Sanchez.  SEAL teams, elite U.S. military units, gained worldwide
attention for the May 2011 raid on a safe house in  Pakistan  that
killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. The film cost $12
million to make, according to Hollywood.com.  “Safe House,” from Universal, took in $7.4 million to
maintain its fourth-place rank. The film, starring  Denzel Washington  as a rogue CIA agent, has generated $108.4 million in
four weeks.  “Tyler Perry’s Good Deeds,” distributed by  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , was fifth with $7 million in its second
week. Perry, who also wrote and directed the movie, plays a
businessman whose scripted life takes an unexpected turn after
he does a favor for a single mother, played by Thandie Newton.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 26 percent to
$152.5 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. The
amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for March 2-4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 