-- Madoff-Mets, BNY Mellon, JPMorgan, Facebook in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-06T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/madoff-mets-bny-mellon-ubs-jpmorgan-facebook-in-court-news.html
The  New York  Mets owners have to
give up as much as $83 million in illegal profits from Bernard
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme and face a trial over another $303 million
of their own money to determine if they acted in bad faith, a
judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff refused yesterday to dismiss
the suit as baseball team owners Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz had
asked. Rakoff ruled that Madoff trustee Irving Picard can claim
as much as $83.3 million without a trial. Picard seeks another
$303 million, and must prove to a jury that the Mets owners and
other defendants were “willfully blind” to the fraud.  “The court remains skeptical that the trustee can
ultimately rebut the defendants’ showing of good faith, let
along impute bad faith to all the defendants,” Rakoff said in
his ruling in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan . “The principal
issue remaining for trial is whether the defendants acted in
good faith when they invested in Madoff securities in the two
years prior to bankruptcy or whether, by contrast, they
willfully blinded themselves to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.”  The trial is set to start March 19 in Manhattan court. The
fraud cost investors an estimated $20 billion in principal,
Picard has said.  In his suit, Picard tried to show the Mets owners blinded
themselves to Madoff’s fraud because it benefited their
businesses, ranging from the team to real estate. Wilpon and
Katz countered by saying they trusted their money manager. Both
sides presented conclusions disguised as facts, Rakoff said.  The jury will be asked to decide whether Picard can take
back principal the defendants withdrew from Madoff’s firm over
two years or transferred to others, and what the status of their
claims against the Madoff estate should be, Rakoff said.  Rakoff last year threw out most of Picard’s $1 billion
lawsuit against the owners, saying Picard could pursue only $386
million at trial. Yesterday he said Picard he would rule later
on how much of the $83.3 million Picard can claim without trial.
The sum represents fictitious profit got from the Ponzi scheme
in the two years before the con man’s 2008 arrest.  David Newman, a Mets spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail asking if the team owners would appeal Rakoff’s
eventual decision on the profit. Amanda Remus, a Picard
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on the ruling.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Madoff-Related Lawsuit Should Be Dismissed, BNY Mellon Says  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  asked a court to dismiss a
lawsuit filed on behalf of three funds that accused the company
of negligence relating to Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  In a lawsuit filed in New York State  Supreme Court  in
December, the so-called Rye funds accused the bank and its BNY
Alternative Investment Services unit, which served as fund
administrator, of acting with “gross negligence” and helping
funnel billions of dollars into Madoff’s scheme.  BNY Mellon provided “purely administrative services” for
the funds, such as mailing account statements, processing
customer subscriptions and calculating each fund’s net asset
value, the bank said in court documents filed March 2.  “BNY Mellon had no role whatsoever in selecting the Rye
Funds’ investments, monitoring those investments, recommending
new or different investments or determining whether investments
were suitable (or, indeed, fraudulent,)” the New York-based
bank said in the filing.  The case is Plaintiffs’ State and Securities Law Settlement
Class Counsel on Behalf of the State Law Subclass and the
Securities Subclass in “In re Tremont Securities Law, State Law
and Insurance Litigation” v.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,
653415/2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Lawyer Who Spotted Broker Fraud Rewarded With 5-Year SEC Ordeal  When Theodore Urban, general counsel at Ferris, Baker Watts
Inc., spotted and questioned a broker’s suspicious trading
patterns in 2007, he triggered a five-year probe by U.S.
regulators who said he failed as a supervisor.  After the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission began its
investigation, Urban, who had worked at the SEC and U.S.
 Commodity Futures Trading Commission  before joining the broker-
dealer, said he had urged senior executives to fire the broker.
Even though an administrative law judge exonerated him, his
ordeal didn’t end until Jan. 26, when the full commission
dismissed the matter without an opinion.  In dropping the case, the commissioners didn’t explain when
a compliance officer or in-house counsel at a broker-dealer or
investment adviser becomes a supervisor liable for an employee’s
actions. Without knowing where their responsibilities lie,
compliance officers and in-house lawyers may be reluctant to
report wrongdoing when they find it, Bloomberg News’ Ellen Rosen
reports. SEC Commissioner Daniel Gallagher addressed what he
called this “dangerous dilemma” last month.  “Robust engagement on the part of legal and compliance
personnel raises the specter that such personnel could be deemed
to be ‘supervisors’ subject to liability for violations of law
by the employees they are held to be supervising,” he said in a
speech in  Washington  on Feb. 24. The SEC, he said in a phone
interview Feb. 29, needs to offer guidance so that those
overseeing compliance “won’t be afraid to be zealous because
they’ll be tagged as a supervisor.”  The administrative proceeding was In the Matter of Urban,
File No. 3-13655, Securities and Exchange Commission
(Washington).  For more, click here.  Assured Guaranty MBS Suit Against UBS Moved to U.S. Court  Assured Guaranty Ltd.’s (AGO)  lawsuit against a  UBS (UBS)  AG unit
accusing the company of failing to meet obligations related to
the pooling of residential mortgage-backed securities was moved
to federal court.  The lawsuit, filed in New York State Supreme Court in
Manhattan on Feb. 2, was moved to U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York, according to documents filed
ydesteray in state court.  Assured Guaranty  Municipal Corp., a New York-based unit of
the Hamilton, Bermuda-based insurer, accused Wilmington,
Delaware-based UBS Real Estate Securities Inc. of failing to
abide by obligations under pooling and servicing agreements
related to residential mortgage-backed securities sold in three
offerings in 2006 and 2007.  UBS said Assured Guaranty is a “sophisticated market
participant” and understood the risks it was taking when it
agreed to insure about $1.5 billion in securities backed by
“high-risk mortgages.”  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  The case is Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. v. UBS Real
Estate Securities Inc., 650327/2012, New York state Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  Activision Wins Ruling on 1 of 2 Ex-Executives’ Fraud Claims  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the No. 1 U.S. publisher of video
games, won dismissal of one of two fraud claims in its
litigation against the former heads of its Infinity Ward studio,
whom the company fired in 2010.  State Superior Court Judge Elihu Berle in Los Angeles
agreed yesterday with Activision that a fraudulent-inducement
claim made by Jason West and Vincent Zampella, creators of the
blockbuster game  “Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2,”  shouldn’t
go forward. He let stand a claim for promissory fraud.  West and Zampella said that they were considering leaving
Activision when their contracts expired in October 2008. They
alleged that Activision made false promises to string them along
and create “Modern Warfare 2,” which became the bestselling
game of 2010, before firing them.  “We’re very pleased,”  Robert Schwartz , a lawyer for West
and Zampella, said after the hearing. “The judge ruled there is
admissible evidence, including from a senior executive, that
Activision never intended to honor the contract.”  The former executives added the fraud claims to a 2010
breach-of-contract and wrongful-termination suit in which they
alleged that Activision, based in Santa Monica,  California ,
fired them to avoid paying millions of dollars in royalties for
the game.  Activision maintains they were fired because they were in
talks with rival Electronic Arts Inc. to set up a new
development studio while they still had two years left on their
contracts with Activision.  “All in all it was a very good day for Activision,” Steve
Marenberg, a lawyer for the company, said after the hearing.
“When the judge reached the substance of our claims, he ruled
for us.”  The remaining fraud claim by West and Zampella survived
only because “peculiarities of the California summary judgment
procedure,” Marenberg said.  A trial is scheduled for May 7.  The case is West v. Activision, SC107041, California
Superior Court (Los Angeles County).  For more, click here.  U.S. Files Formal Request With New Zealand to Extradite Dotcom  The U.S. government has formally asked New Zealand to
extradite Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom, who was indicted in
Virginia on charges of involvement in the country’s biggest
copyright infringement conspiracy.  The extradition papers for Dotcom; Finn Batato, the chief
marketing officer at Megaupload; Mathias Ortmann, co-founder and
director of the file-sharing website; and Bram van der Kolk, who
oversaw programming at the website, were received at the North
Shore District Court near Auckland on March 2, said Magila
Annandale, a New Zealand Ministry of Justice spokeswoman.  Dotcom ran a “Mega Conspiracy,” U.S. prosecutors said in
a Feb. 17 revised indictment filed in a court in Alexandria,
Virginia, accusing him of generating more than $175 million in
criminal proceeds from the exchange of pirated film, music, book
and software files. He faces as long as 20 years in prison for
each of the racketeering and money-laundering charges in the
indictment.  The U.S. extradition papers weren’t immediately available
from the North Shore District Court. A judge has to approve
requests from people not involved in the case for access to
files after receiving a written application and obtaining views
of all parties in the matter, Annandale said in an e-mail
yesterday.  Dotcom, 38, was also charged in the U.S. with five counts
of criminal copyright infringement and five counts of wire
fraud. The defendant, who legally changed his family name from
Schmitz, has denied any criminal misconduct.  He was released from jail on Feb. 22 over objections from
the U.S., after Judge N.R. Dawson ruled he wasn’t a flight risk.
Dotcom is restricted to his rented $18 million mansion and
subject to electronic monitoring, according to the bail
conditions.  An extradition hearing has been scheduled for Aug. 20.  Okada Manila Tour Is Defining Moment as Wynn Goes ‘Nuclear’  Stephen Wynn  stepped off his private jet at Manila airport
in June 2010 to be greeted by the Philippines gaming regulator.
On the tarmac too, in black wraparound sunglasses and trademark
1950s-style slicked-back hair, was Japanese slot-machine
billionaire Kazuo Okada.  Okada, 69, wanted the chief executive officer of  Wynn
Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  to join his $2 billion casino and hotel project on
Manila Bay. Wynn, companion Andrea Hissom and Wynn Resorts Chief
Operating Officer Marc Schorr toured a hotel, shopping mall and
casino showcasing Manila’s investment potential, and sat through
a presentation on the new project in an air-conditioned marquee,
photographs of the trip show.  That visit proved pivotal for Okada’s ambition to create an
Asian casino empire -- only not as he’d hoped, according to an
interview last week detailing how his 12-year alliance with Wynn
went sour. Philippines regulator Efraim Genuino was indicted in
an ongoing graft case. By the fall, Wynn was focusing on Okada’s
Philippines activities, court documents show, removing him as
vice chairman last year and forcibly buying his $2.77 billion
stake last month at a 30 percent discount.  During three hours at his 36th-floor office in  Hong Kong ’s
Tsim Sha Tsui district, Okada laid out his version of the split
with Wynn, whose business he helped revive with funding in 2000,
Bloomberg News’ Vinicy Chan and Kana Nishizawa report. It’s a
story at odds with the 47-page report Wynn commissioned from
Louis J. Freeh, a former director of the U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation, which catalogs more than $110,000 in hotel rooms,
meals and gifts for gaming officials and their associates that
Wynn’s lawyers said may have breached U.S. anti-graft laws.  “They gave the board the report without letting me review
it,” said Okada, founder of Tokyo-based  Universal Entertainment
Corp. (6425)  “Even criminals would be asked to sign off on the
findings to ensure there are no mistakes.”  The boardroom scrap at Las Vegas-based Wynn Resorts shows
the dilemma U.S. companies face when seeking growth in  Asia ,
where a broader acceptance of gift giving and hospitality
conflicts with the tightening anti-bribery regime at home. Wynn
Resorts alleges Okada misused its assets, name and know-how to
promote himself, even though Wynn had decided to stay out of the
Philippines, and that his actions put the company’s gambling
licenses at risk.  Freeh briefed Wynn Resorts’ director on his findings Feb.
18, and on the same day they judged Okada to be an “unsuitable
person,” invoking a clause in the articles of incorporation to
redeem the 20 percent stake that made him the company’s biggest
shareholder. Okada said he’s gathering evidence to show the
report was riddled with errors and exaggerated standard industry
practice as a pretext to eliminate a man Wynn, 70, had come to
regard as a threat.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  UBS, JPMorgan Print-Room Data Used in U.K. Insider-Trading Ring  Seven people made more than 1 million pounds ($1.5 million)
profit by trading on information taken from the print rooms for
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and  JP Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , a lawyer for the  Financial
Services Authority  said yesterday.  Inside information obtained by brothers Ersin Mustafa and
Ali Mustafa who worked at the firms’ print rooms was used by
five others to place trades through Mitesh Shah, who was a
broker at Finspreads, now called City Index Ltd., said Michael
Bowes, a lawyer for the prosecution. The men bet on six
companies, including Biffa Group Ltd. and Premier Oil Plc.,
between May 2006 and 2008.  “They were what could be described as day-traders,” Bowes
told a  London  court. They used multiple accounts “as a way of
seeking to distract from attention.”  The FSA filed charges in the case, known as Saturn, in 2010
after a 21-month investigation, which employed around 25 lawyers
and investigators probing 130 trading accounts. The regulator
has led a crackdown on market abuse, fining  David Einhorn  and
Greenlight Capital Inc. 7.2 million pounds in January for
trading on inside information in  Punch Taverns Plc (PUB)  in 2009.  The defendants in the Saturn case were either family
members or friends, and were able to coordinate their actions,
Bowes said. Executives at the banks weren’t involved in the
ring.  There is “no allegation whatsoever that anyone” at
JPMorgan or UBS did anything wrong, Bowes said.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford Fraud Trial Jury Ordered to Resume Deliberations  The jury in R. Allen Stanford’s fraud trial was ordered by
the judge to return to deliberations after the panel sent a note
saying it couldn’t reach a unanimous verdict in its fourth day
of reviewing the evidence.  The eight men and four women on the jury told U.S. District
Judge David Hittner in Houston yesterday they were “unable to
reach a verdict on each of the 14 counts,” the judge said,
reading their note to attorneys for both sides.  Hittner instructed jurors to “continue your deliberations
in this case,” telling them the trial has been costly in terms
of both time and money, that the lawyers were unlikely going to
be able to put on a better trial and that another jury was
unlikely to be more conscientious.  Stanford, 61, is accused of leading a $7 billion
international fraud scheme involving the sale of certificates of
deposit issued by his Antigua-based bank. He faces as long as 20
years in prison if found guilty of the most severe charges, mail
fraud and wire fraud. The financier maintains he is not guilty.  Jury selection in the case began Jan. 23 and the panel
heard five weeks of evidence.  The government presented testimony from investors who
bought the allegedly fraudulent CDs as well as from the
executives who helped sell them.  The defense presented former Stanford employees who said
they saw no evidence of fraud at the company. Some offered
testimony in support of the defense’s contention that Stanford
was an absentee visionary who left the details of running his
operation to Davis. Stanford didn’t testify during the trial.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  Corporate Human Rights Case Expanded by U.S. Supreme Court  The U.S. Supreme Court ordered a second round of arguments
in a case that might shield multinational companies, including
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , from accusations they played a role in
human-rights abuses.  The justices yesterday expanded their review of a lawsuit
that claims Shell units were complicit in torture and execution
in Nigeria in the 1990s. The court said it will now consider
whether the two-century-old Alien Tort Statute can be invoked
for alleged wrongdoing that occurs beyond the U.S. borders.  Multinational companies have faced dozens of suits accusing
them of playing a role in human rights violations, environmental
misconduct and labor abuses.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Unocal Corp (UCL) .,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  have
all been sued under either the Alien Tort Statute or a related
law, known as the Torture Victim Protection Act.  When they heard arguments in the Shell case last week, the
justices focused on whether the Alien Tort Statute allowed suits
against corporations. Several justices, including Samuel Alito,
suggested during the argument that they were more interested in
considering whether the law could be applied overseas.  The court’s briefing schedule means the new argument will
take place during the nine-month term that starts in October.  The case is Kiobel v. Shell Petroleum, 10-1491, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  U.S. Challenges Judge Ruling on Cigarette Graphic Warnings  The U.S. government appealed a federal judge’s ruling
throwing out requirements for graphic warning labels regarding
the health risks of cigarettes.  The Food and Drug Administration filed a notice of appeal
yesterday in U.S. District Court in Washington seeking to
overturn Judge Richard Leon’s Feb. 29 decision that the
government’s rule violates the tobacco companies’ rights to free
speech.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington is scheduled to
hear arguments next month on the government’s challenge to a
ruling Leon issued in November that canceled a Sept. 22 deadline
for tobacco companies to begin displaying images such as
diseased lungs and a cadaver with chest staples on an autopsy
table on the top half of the front and back of all cigarette
packages.  It is unclear whether the three-judge panel will consider
yesterday’s appeal on April 10.  Lorillard Inc. (LO) ,  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) ’s R.J. Reynolds
unit, Commonwealth Brands Inc., Liggett Group LLC and Santa Fe
Natural Tobacco Co. sued the FDA in August, claiming its
mandates for cigarette packages, cartons and advertising violate
the First Amendment. The companies said in court papers that it
would cost them a total of about $20 million to meet the 2012
deadline.  The graphics were supposed to cover the top half of the
front and back of cigarette packages and 20 percent of print
advertisements. The FDA estimated the visual warnings would help
lower the smoking rate by about 0.212 percentage points, Leon
wrote in his opinion.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 11-cv-1482, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Carbon Traders Stole Millions in Tax Fraud, Prosecutor Says  Seven carbon-credit traders used a “carefully organized
plan” to commit tax fraud worth about 40 million pounds ($63.4
million), prosecutors said at the start of a London trial.  The group are accused of using a series of companies
registered under the European Union carbon-credits trading
program to fraudulently claim Value Added Tax.  At least 25 people were arrested in  Germany  and the U.K
during a 2010 crackdown on tax fraud in the $121 billion-a-year
European carbon-trading industry. About 1,000 companies are
registered in the EU, U.K. prosecutors said.  “The scale of it was quite extraordinary,” said Michael
Parroy, a prosecution lawyer. “They helped themselves to 38
million pounds worth of VAT in the space of three-and-a-half
months” in 2009.  The traders imported emissions credits tax free from
 Europe , passed them through a series of intermediary companies
and sold them to buyers including  BP Plc (BP/) , Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Parroy said.  Prosecutors said 29-year-old Sandeep Singh Dosanjh, from
Gravesend, made the most from the fraud and used the proceeds to
buy luxury cars and property in London’s exclusive Notting Hill
neighborhood.  Also accused are Dhanvinder Basra, Navdeep Singh Gill,
Sandeep Harry, Pritpal Singh, Ranjot Chahal and Kernjit Dhillon,
who are connected by family or friendship to Dosanjh, Parroy
said.  Lawyers for the traders will present their defense later in
the trial.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  AmEx Transfers Didn’t Aid Hezbollah in Attacks, Court Says  American Express Bank Ltd. isn’t liable for Hezbollah
rockets attacks on Israel in 2006 because of financial
transactions, an appeals court ruled, affirming a lower court’s
dismissal of a suit brought by families of U.S., Israeli and
Canadian victims.  The federal appeals court in New York, yesterday affirmed a
2010 U.S. District Judge George Daniels’s dismissal of a
negligence claim against American Express. The plaintiffs
“failed plausibly to allege that AmEx’s conduct was the
proximate cause of the plaintiffs’ injuries,” the appeals court
said.  The victims and family members alleged that New York-based
American Express and Lebanese Canadian Bank helped the terrorist
group attack targets in northern Israel in July and August 2006
by handling wire transfers of millions of U.S. dollars.  The appeals court said it may later review claims of
personal jurisdiction against Lebanese Canadian Bank, a Beirut-
based lender that merged with Societe Generale Lebanon last
year. Daniels dismissed the claims saying he didn’t have
jurisdiction.  The plaintiffs, relatives of American, Israeli and Canadian
citizens in Israel, alleged that Lebanese Canadian bank, which
had no branches, offices or employees in the U.S., “knowingly
maintained” bank accounts of alleged Hezbollah affiliates.  The  appeals court said  it will seek a determination from
the New York Court of Appeals, the state’s highest court, on
whether the plaintiffs’ claims for negligence and breach of duty
can be applied to a foreign bank’s maintenance of correspondence
under New York law.  The circuit is awaiting a U.S. Supreme Court ruling in a
case in which Royal Dutch Shell Plc argues it can’t be sued by
Nigerians seeking damages from torture and murders committed by
their government in the early 1990s.  The Supreme Court heard arguments in the case, Kiobel v.
Shell Petroleum on Feb. 28. A decision may be issued this year.  “Should the Supreme Court reverse our decision in Kiobel,
and the Court of Appeals indicate that we have personal
jurisdiction over the Lebanese Canadian Bank in this case, the
Alien Tort statute claims will likely require further
proceedings in the district court,” the panel of appeals judges
ruled yesterday.  The case is Licci v. Lebanese Canadian Bank, 10-1306, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (New York). The U.S.
Supreme Court case is Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co.,
10-1491, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Facebook Claimant to Be Represented by Milberg Law Firm  Paul Ceglia , who claims a 2003 contract with  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  gave him half the company, hired
 Milberg LLP (1401L)  to represent him in his federal lawsuit against the
world’s biggest social network.  The move, made public in filings yesterday in federal court
in Buffalo, New York, follows the hiring and departure of
several firms from Ceglia’s legal team since he sued in June
2010.  Milberg, a 71-lawyer firm based in New York, is known for
representing investors and consumers in class actions, or group
lawsuits. Formerly Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach LLP,
Milberg was the biggest firm representing shareholders in
securities fraud suits against companies before it split in two
in 2004 amid a U.S. investigation that sent four former partners
to prison.  Milberg recovered $137.5 million in shareholder suit
settlements in 2010, the most recent year for which data is
available, according to Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.,
which tracks the settlements.  “Their participation speaks to the strength of Paul’s
case, now that defendants will not be able to dismiss it on
their empty claims of fraud,” Dean Boland, a Lakewood, Ohio,
lawyer who represents Ceglia, said in a text message yesterday.  Facebook, based in Menlo Park, California, accuses Ceglia
of fabricating the contract and has called his suit a fraud.  Orin Snyder, a Facebook lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
phone message seeking comment on the hiring.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For more, click here.  Former U.S. Prosecutor Barkow Joins Jenner & Block Law Firm  Anthony S. Barkow, a former federal prosecutor and an
executive director at the New York University School of Law,
joined the Chicago-based law firm  Jenner & Block LLP (1180L) .  Barkow, 42, is the founder of NYU’s  Center on the
Administration of Criminal Law , a nonprofit advisory group on
good governmental practices in the criminal justice system,
according to its website. He was an assistant U.S. attorney in
Manhattan and Washington, prosecuting securities and commodities
fraud, terrorism and organized crime.  “The white-collar area is extremely active, and it will
only see an increase,” Barkow said in a telephone interview.
“The firm is filled with supremely talented lawyers, and I’m
eager to be a part of it.”  He will join the firm’s New York office as a partner in its
white-collar defense and investigations practice.  As a federal prosecutor, Barkow assisted in the 2006
conviction of lawyer Lynne F. Stewart for providing material
support to the terrorist group of Ahmed Omar Abdel Rahman, and
helped to prosecute insider trading and securities and
accounting fraud.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court News  New Jersey Supreme Court Justice Long Retires at Age Limit  Virginia Long, the third woman appointed to the  New Jersey 
Supreme Court, has retired after reaching the age limit of 70,
the Star-Ledger of Newark, New Jersey, reported.  Long, a liberal Democrat appointed to the state’s highest
court in 1999 by Republican Governor Christine Todd Whitman,
wrote more than 3,000 opinions, and was a consistent opponent of
the death penalty, the Star-Ledger reported.  She joins the Fox Rothschild law firm, where her husband is
a partner, this week, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 