-- Madoff Trustee’s Defendant Seeking New Judge Increases to More Than 400
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-03-06T16:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/madoff-trustee-s-defendant-seeking-new-judge-increases-to-more-than-400.html
Defendants in more than 400 lawsuits
related to the collapse of Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme have
sought to move their cases from  bankruptcy court  to district
court, most asking U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff to assess
demands for return of money by the Madoff trustee.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  has filed more than 1,050
lawsuits to try to recoup money he alleges was stolen from the
con man’s other customers, according to a bankruptcy court
filing in  Manhattan  yesterday. Rakoff’s handling of Picard’s $1
billion lawsuit against the New York Mets owners, which the
judge cut to $386 million, spurred defendants in more than 30
other cases to ask Rakoff to assess their liabilities too, court
documents show.  The number of suits awaiting attention from Rakoff and
other district judges were published as part of a notice to
defendants that Rakoff had set an April 2 deadline for requests
to take more Madoff suits. Mets owners  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz
are due to go to trial on March 19 in Rakoff’s Manhattan court.  Bank defendants in Picard’s bankruptcy court suits,
including JPMorgan Chase & Co., have asked district judges to
decide whether Picard, a New York lawyer, has the right to sue
them, and for how much. They say that Picard is straining the
limits of the law as he tries to grab back money for victims of
Madoff’s fraud. Some of them have won initial victories.  The Madoff trustee currently is appealing district court
decisions that knocked out about $30 billion of his claims
against banks. Rakoff has also disallowed most of a
$59 billion suit that was based on racketeering law.  The Mets case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  