-- Thai Political Feud Will Be Resolved This Year, Thaksin Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2012-03-07T01:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/thai-political-feud-will-be-resolved-this-year-thaksin-says-1-.html
Thaksin Shinawatra , deposed as Thai
premier in a 2006 coup, said his sister’s seven-month-old
government will avoid the same fate due to her good ties with
the army and expressed hope he’d return from exile this year.  “As long as there is no issue related to the monarchy, as
long as there is no issue about internal security, the military
will stay in the barracks,” Thaksin, whose sister Yingluck Shinawatra became prime minister in August, said in an interview
yesterday in  Seoul . “My sister works hard for the people, she
respects the monarchy very much and she can work with the
military without conflict.”  Yingluck’s push to rewrite the constitution risks sparking
violence like in 2008 when a similar effort by Thaksin’s allies
led to protests by his yellow-shirted opponents who shut down
parts of Bangkok and seized its airports. Yingluck, a political
novice before standing in July elections, is seeking to reassure
foreign investors after floods last year swamped thousands of
factories and caused the economy to shrink for the first time
since 2009.  Changing the constitution to make it more democratic has
“almost consensus” support among  Thailand ’s 66 million people,
Thaksin said in an interview that spanned calls for diversifying
some of the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves to advocating
lower  interest rates  to spur growth.  “History will not repeat itself,” Thaksin said, referring
to street battles that have claimed more than 100 lives since
his ouster. Thailand “will move toward reconciliation” as
early as this year, he said.  Detente  The proposal to create a 99-member Constitution Drafting
Assembly passed 399 to 199 on Feb. 24, the first of three
required votes in the National Assembly. The  People’s Alliance 
for Democracy, which led anti-Thaksin protests in 2006 and 2008,
plans to meet on March 10 to decide whether to return to the
streets in a bid to block its passage.  Events in recent weeks point to a detente between Thaksin
and his opponents, including the presence of top royal adviser
Prem Tinsulanonda, who Thaksin earlier accused of backing the
coup, at a dinner hosted by Yingluck, according to  Michael Montesano , a visiting research fellow at the Institute of
Southeast Asian Studies in  Singapore . Court decisions upholding
government spending plans and convicting anti-Thaksin protest
leader Sondhi Limthongkul of fraud are further evidence, he
said.  “There’s been a string of indications that the groups we
expected to see undermining this government are not doing so,”
Montesano said. “For once, Thaksin’s sweeping statements are
perhaps not all bluster.”  Poor Voters  Thaksin, 62, became a billionaire after winning a mobile-
phone concession in 1990 for what became Thailand’s biggest
operator. He soon entered politics and appealed to voters in the
poorer northeast region with cheap health care and small loans,
a platform that underpinned his tenure as prime minister from
2001 until his ouster.  Thaksin has lived overseas since fleeing a two-year jail
sentence in 2008 for helping his wife buy land from the
government. A court seized 46.4 billion baht ($1.5 billion) of
his family’s money in 2010, two weeks before his supporters
started protests that shut down Bangkok’s commercial center and
ended in a military crackdown and arson attacks.  “I’ve done nothing wrong,” Thaksin said when asked if
he’d ever spend a day in jail to foster reconciliation.  Campaign Promises  In July, Yingluck’s Pheu Thai won 265 seats in the 500-seat
parliament on pledges to raise the minimum wage, buy rice at
above-market rates and give students tablet computers. It was
the fifth straight election win since 2001 for allies of
Thaksin.  Yingluck “will start delivering campaign promises and the
economy will move accordingly,” Thaksin said. “The flood maybe
slowed down her performance a little bit, but now I think she
performs very well -- better than I expected.”  Thailand’s consumer confidence rose for a third straight
month in February, the latest indicator of a recovery after the
nation’s worst floods in almost 70 years disrupted supply chains
for companies such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Toyota Motor Corp. The
state planning agency forecasts the economy may expand as much
as 6.5 percent this year after the deluge slowed annual growth
to 0.1 percent in 2011.  Strong Rebound  “Despite the floods, our economic fundamentals continue to
be strong,” Yingluck said today during a visit to  Tokyo . She
said she expects the economy “to rebound strongly” and that
the forecast for growth this year is between 5.5 percent and 6.5
percent.  She said the government was investing in barriers around
industrial estates to protect factories from flooding. “This
will ensure industrial supply chains and logistics will not be
disrupted,” Yingluck said.  Since  King Bhumibol Adulyadej  confirmed Yingluck as premier
on Aug. 8, Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  has risen 7 percent, more than
benchmarks in  Malaysia ,  Indonesia  and Singapore. The baht has
declined percent in that time.  Thaksin criticized Thailand’s central bank, saying policy
makers were overly concerned about inflation and should keep
interest rates low to boost growth. Foreign reserves of $181
billion are “unnecessarily high” and should be invested in
large-scale infrastructure projects, he said.  “Sometimes government officials don’t want to take any
risks,” he said, adding that he respects the central bank’s
autonomy.  Thaksin considers himself an encyclopedia that Yingluck
“can open anytime she wants to.” He said he has no ambition to
serve again as prime minister and will seek to become her
adviser if he returns to Thailand.  “A Thaksin government without Thaksin is absolutely
perfect at the moment,” said Chris Baker, a Bangkok-based
political analyst and author of a biography on Thaksin.
“Yingluck is doing a brilliant job of empathetic, slightly low-
key leadership. We are back on the path before the coup. The one
thing that can throw this is if Thaksin tries to return.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Rishaad Salamat in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  