-- AIA Shares Decline After $6 Billion AIG Sale: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-03-06T09:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/aia-shares-decline-after-6-billion-aig-sale.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the third-largest
Asia-based insurer by market value, fell the most in more than
five months after  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  sold $6
billion worth of its shares to help repay a government bailout.  AIA  declined  8.4 percent to HK$26.75, the most since Sept.
22 and outstripping the 2.2 percent fall in the city’s benchmark
Hang Seng Index. New York-based AIG sold 1.72 billion shares of
the Hong Kong-based insurer at HK$27.15 each to institutional
investors yesterday and ceased to be AIA’s controlling
shareholder, AIA said in an e-mailed statement today.  The sale reduces uncertainty about when and how AIG will
exit its remaining holdings of the Asian insurer after it sold a
majority stake via its initial public offering in October 2010
to help repay the $182.3 billion bailout. The shares declined
today after the sale was priced at the lower end of a target
range and 7 percent below AIA’s closing price on March 2.  “AIG’s stake in AIA has been an overhang since the day
when AIA went  public , given its enormous size,” said Wang Lei,
who helps manage about $40 billion of assets as co-fund manager
of Thornburg International Value Fund in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico .  The AIA stock, offered at HK$27.15 to HK$27.50, was the
largest share sale globally excluding rights issues this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies and their
shareholders raised more than $58 billion from initial public
offerings and secondary share offerings globally this year,
according to the data.  Hang Seng Index (HSI) ’s volume more than doubled its 30-day
 average  to 3.9 billion shares today, amid the selloff of AIA
shares. About 1.9 billion AIA shares  changed  hands today,
compared with the daily average of 27.9 million shares this year
through Mar. 2.  Exiting AIA  The shares sold by AIG represented a 14 percent stake in
AIA and were priced at a 7 percent discount to the Hong Kong
company’s closing price on March 2. AIG is restricted from
selling its remaining 18.6 percent holding until Sept. 4, the
U.S. insurer said in a separate statement.  AIG was rescued in September 2008 after the collapse of the
subprime housing market and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
triggered credit rating downgrades of the insurer. It has repaid
much of the government bailout through asset sales. The Treasury
still holds about three-quarters of the company’s stock and
other AIG-related assets, backed by collateral including the AIA
stake.  AIG sold about two-thirds of the Hong Kong-based life
insurer in the 2010 IPO. Its stake before the latest share sale
had a market value of about $15 billion. Proceeds from the
latest sale will be used to lower $8.4 billion AIG owes the
Treasury to redeem interests in special-purpose vehicles related
to its rescue.  Reducing Uncertainty  There is a general expectation that AIG will sell its stake,
said John Pearce, Melbourne-based chief investment officer of
 UniSuper Management Pty Ltd. , which manages about $30 billion of
pension assets.  “So the quickest they exit their position, the better as
it reduces uncertainty,” Pearce said in an e-mail.  As a result of yesterday’s sale, Jeffrey Hurd and Jay Wintrob, two AIG-nominated non-executive directors, have
informed AIA of their plans to resign from its board, the Hong
Kong-based company said in the statement.  AIG has divested more than $50 billion in assets to repay
the government rescue, including non-U.S. life insurers and a
consumer lender. The firm sold a $500 million stake in
Blackstone Group LP in a block trade last week, according to a
person familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified
because he wasn’t permitted to speak about the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  