-- Albee’s Morbid ‘Dubuque’ Shocks; ‘Tribes’ Goes Silent: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-03-06T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/albee-s-brutal-dubuque-shocks-noisy-tribes-goes-silent-jeremy-gerard.html
The humor in “The Lady From
Dubuque,”  Edward Albee ’s mysterious-stranger play, is drenched
in acid. So much so that it’s easy to understand why critics
dismissed it 22 years ago and audiences followed their advice.  Not even Irene Worth’s luminous performance in the title
role could neutralize the discomfort generated by a play
populated with friends who take pleasure in lacerating put-
downs, and punctuated frequently with howls of pain from a woman
dying of cancer. The show closed after just 12 performances.  That situation is definitively rectified at the  Signature
Theatre , where Albee and two other playwrights (Katori Hall and
Athol Fugard) are in residence for a year at the brand new
Pershing Square Signature Center.  Set in an expensively appointed suburban home with
cathedral ceilings, a spiral staircase and tasteful African art
( John Arnone ’s set is on the money), “Lady” opens with a
cocktail party. The hosts are Sam ( Michael Hayden ) and his
dying wife Jo (Laila Robins, balancing scorching humor,
harrowing pain and wrenching neediness like a master plate-
spinner).  Get the Guests  In a scene that echoes “Get the Guests,” the baiting game
played in “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” Sam and especially
Jo savage the two couples who have joined them.  They are: Fred (C.J. Wilson), a redneck who thinks of
himself as salt-of-the-earth, and his latest girlfriend, Carol,
(Tricia Paoluccio), whose breezy sexiness may or may not cover a
deeper intelligence; and Edgar (Thomas Jay Ryan), a milquetoast
married to Lucinda (Catherine Curtin), who would be pitiable if
she weren’t so genuinely stupid.  Not a crowd you’d probably want to hang out with (and it’s
something of a stretch to think these people ever spent more
than 15 minutes together before storming off or hitting each
other).  It isn’t until the guests have gone home and Sam and Jo
have gone to bed that Elizabeth (Jane Alexander) and Oscar
(Peter Francis James) enter, chicly dressed and obviously on a
mission relating to Jo’s condition.  “I am the lady from Dubuque,” she tells the increasingly
furious Sam, adding “I do not summer in Dubuque.”  Elizabeth is not an arbitrary choice of names for this
mysterious intruder, who insists that she is Jo’s mother. At the
time the play was written, Elisabeth Kubler-Ross’s five stages
of grief were being widely discussed among the chattering
classes.  Director David Esbjornson, who has wrestled with “The Lady
From Dubuque” through several productions, has paced the play
in such a way as to give every character his or her due, keeping
them in perfect proportion one to the others.  They may not be likable, but they are eminently human.  Twenty-two years ago, I felt befuddled and assaulted.
Perhaps because I’ve buried so many friends and loved ones since
then, and death inevitably expands in our consciousness as we
grow older. I found “The Lady From Dubuque” deeply moving, a
play that finally the times have caught up with.  Through April 1 at 480 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-244-
7529;  http://www.signaturetheatre.org . Rating: ***  ‘Tribes’  Squabbles also figure noisily in Nina Raine’s “Tribes,”
an import from  London  having its U.S. premiere at the  Barrow
Street Theatre .  Christopher (the brilliant Jeff Perry), a pompous academic,
and pop novelist Beth (Mare Winningham, exuding kindness, an
anomalous emotion in these surroundings), preside over three
grown children, all living under one roof.  Reading Lips  Their youngest, Billy (Russell Harvard, a sensitive and
expressive actor) was born deaf and has managed to become both
an expert lip-reader and competent speaker.  His brother Daniel (Will Brill) and sister Ruth (Gayle
Rankin) are protective of Daniel until he falls in love with
Sylvia (Susan Pourfar, whose performance is breathtakingly
detailed), a child of deaf parents who is now beginning to lose
her hearing.  Learning to sign opens a world to Billy as much as does
falling in love. This fractures the family cocoon. Raine firmly
roots each character in this uneasy world and highlights their
reality with incisive flights of music, from Mozart to Satie.  But director David Cromer, who had a major hit in this
theater with “Our Town,” seriously errs in staging “Tribes”
in the round. This is a play that more than most demands our
attention to body language and especially facial expressions --
which much of the audience never gets to see.  At 27 Barrow St.,  Greenwich Village . Information: +1-212-
868-4444;  http://www.barrowstreettheatre.com . Rating: ** 1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 