-- Alliance CEO Picks Unilever, Sanofi in ‘Uncertain’ 2012
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-03-06T11:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/alliance-picks-unilever-sanofi-in-uncertain-2012-ceo-says.html
Alliance Trust Plc (ATST) , the U.K.’s
largest closed-end fund, is picking so-called defensive stocks
with high dividends as global growth is hindered by  Europe ’s
debt crisis, Chief Executive Officer Katherine Garrett-Cox said.  Unilever (ULVR) , the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker,
and Sanofi, France’s biggest drugmaker, are among the Dundee,
Scotland-based investment trust’s top picks for this year due to
their “good earnings visibility” and high dividend yield,
Garrett-Cox said today in an interview.  “In the last six months we’ve become more defensive,”
said Garrett-Cox, a former chief investment officer at  Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc (ADN)  and Aviva Investors. “The world is more
uncertain than probably at any other time in my career.”  U.K. and European stocks have rallied the most since 2009
in the last three months after the  European Central Bank  allowed
the region’s lenders to borrow three-year loans at low  interest
rates  through its Long Term Refinancing Operation. The measure
has not addressed the “root cause” of Europe’s problems,
meaning a recovery is still far from certain, Garrett-Cox said.  “The LTRO was a very expensive way of giving the market
the feel-good factor, but what happens when it is withdrawn?,”
she said. “Europe is still flat on its back on its hospital
bed. We think this is going to be a very long hard slog.”  Stocks Fall  The  STOXX 600 Index (SXXP)  of European shares dropped 1.4 percent
today, the biggest fall since December, after the European
Union’s statistics office said Europe’s economy contracted 0.3
percent in the fourth quarter. Private investors that declared
their participation in  Greece ’s debt restructuring hold about 20
percent of the bonds involved in the swap, short of the 75
percent the nation’s government has said is required for the
debt exchange to proceed.  “The biggest risk to the recovery is that fact that
politics continues to dominate economics,” Garrett-Cox said.
Aside from the European debt crisis, the withdrawal of
quantitative easing in the U.K. and U.S. and increasing tensions
with Iran are also potential risks to recovery, she said.  Unilever and Sanofi have inherent growth potential in spite
of the difficult economic conditions, Garrett-Cox said. The  fund
manager  said she has “high confidence” in Unilever to increase
profit margins and likes the strength of the firm’s brands,
which include Dove soap and Cif cleaning products.  Sanofi (SAN) ’s
growing presence in emerging markets, such as  China , is one
reason behind buying the stock, she said.  Unilever has a 12-month dividend yield of 3.8 percent,
while Sanofi’s is 4.4 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Alliance Trust’s net asset value fell 7.6 percent to 405.8
pence a share in the 11 months ended Dec. 31, it said today in a
statement. The firm’s total shareholder return increased 19.2
percent to 364 pence after it increased its full-year dividend 3
percent to 8.395 pence a share  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 