-- Apple Pinches Tablet Rivals With Newest IPad Debut: Tech
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-03-06T23:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/apple-pinches-tablet-rivals-on-both-ends-in-unveiling-newest-ipad-tech.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  debuts its most
significant overhaul of the iPad today in San Francisco. For
competitors trying to get a foothold in the tablet market, the
most important announcement may be what Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  does with the older models already on the shelves.  As it introduces a new iPad decked out with faster
processing speeds and a sharper screen, Apple may also slash the
price of the existing model from $499, said  Chris Jones , an
 analyst  at Canalys, a technology research firm. That would
squeeze rivals such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , whose $199 Kindle Fire
is targeted at budget-conscious customers, he said.  Apple has cut the price of older models to attract bargain-
hunting shoppers when unveiling a  new product  aimed at the high
end, a pincer movement used with success on the most recent
iPhone. While today’s focus will be on the new version, which
will have access to speedier wireless networks, the iPad 2 price
cut may have more significance to makers of cheaper tablets that
haven’t been able to match Apple’s success.  “It will put pressure on those who are trying to undercut
the iPad on price,” said Jones, who said Apple may lower the
price of the cheapest iPad 2 by $100 to $399. “The market has
changed in the past few months with the arrival of Amazon.”  When Apple introduced the iPhone 4S in October, it reduced
the price of the iPhone 4 to $99 and the made the iPhone 3GS
free with a two-year wireless contract. Older models account for
about a quarter of total iPhone sales, Jones said.  Trudy Muller , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment on plans for today’s announcement.  Technology Upgrade  The new iPad will sport a high-definition display, run a
faster processor and work with LTE wireless networks, people
familiar with the product said in January. The expected iPad
overhaul is Apple’s most significant for the tablet since its
2010 debut and will help draw both new customers and existing
owners ready for an upgrade, said  Carl Howe , an analyst at
 Yankee Group .  Apple gets about 20 percent of its  sales  from the iPad,
attracting consumers as well as business users. With the
device’s mix of touch-screen functionality and as much computing
power as some laptops, Apple has created a new category of
consumer-electronics devices.  Amazon’s Kindle Fire tablet, which went on sale in
November, has emerged as Apple’s most credible competitor.
Still, Apple controls 73 percent of the tablet market, according
to Forrester Research Inc. Tablets introduced by  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
haven’t gained much interest.  “It’s an iPad market, and then there’s everybody else,”
Howe said. “They are going to be selling them as fast as they
can make them.”  Amazon’s Share  Amazon has been able to make some strides in the tablet
market with the Kindle Fire because of its lower price, and
Amazon’s website gives it a sales channel on par with Apple’s
retail stores, said Sarah Rotman Epps, an analyst at Forrester.
Amazon’s selection of movies, music and applications also is
appealing to customers, she said.  “Tablets are about services,” said Rotman Epps. “That’s
why Amazon has succeeded where others have failed.”  A new wave of tablets will be entering the market with
Microsoft’s introduction of Windows 8, a remake of the company’s
flagship operating system intended to work more easily with
smartphones and tablets. Hewlett-Packard has said it will
introduce a tablet using the software, which analysts expect
will be released later this year.  Waiting for Windows  While Windows 8-based products are being completed, Apple
may sell 11.3 million iPads in the quarter ending March 31, more
than double unit sales from a year earlier, according to  Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group in  San Francisco . The company
may sell 60 million  iPads  in all of 2012, ISI predicts, about 50
percent more than last year.  Apple is the largest maker of personal computers if the
iPad is included in the count, according to Canalys.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , will eventually
become a strong competitor, though the longer Windows 8 takes to
hit the market, the harder it will be to gain traction with
customers, said Rotman Epps.  Today’s event is Apple’s first major product unveiling
since the October death of co-founder  Steve Jobs . Jobs led the
introductions of the previous two iPads, in 2010 and 2011. At
the event, Apple may also introduce an updated version of Apple
TV, its hockey-puck-sized device for buying movies and shows
through a TV set, according to  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper
Jaffray Cos. The device is sold out on the websites of retailers
such as  Best Buy Co. , an indication a new model is coming.  Most Valuable  The iPad has helped make Apple the world’s most valuable
company, worth  $494 billion  based on yesterday’s $530.26 closing
stock price. Since the device went on sale in April 2010,
Apple’s stock has risen 125 percent and quarterly sales have
almost tripled.  One reason Apple has been able to maintain a dominant share
of the tablet market is that wireless carriers don’t play as
prominent a role in sales as they do with smartphones, Howe
said. Customers visiting a  Verizon Wireless  or  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  store are often steered to a smartphone running  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software instead of an iPhone, he said.  Apple also benefits from its chain of more than 360 retail
stores and the thousands of applications that are tailored
specifically for the iPad, said Forrester’s Rotman Epps.  Corporate Demand  Also helping Apple’s iPad sales is corporate demand. The
company is on pace to sell $10 billion worth of iPads to
businesses this year, according to Forrester, succeeding in a
market that has traditionally been Microsoft’s strength.  Bob Tinker, CEO of  MobileIron Inc. , which helps companies
integrate iPads and other mobile devices, said that last year
the largest iPad deployments among enterprise customers were
about 6,000 devices. Now, it’s not uncommon to see more than
20,000 being given to employees at a single company.  “That type of deal went from being something that was
special to something that’s happening many times a month,”
Tinker said.  As business customers buy the new, more expensive iPads,
cutting the price of the iPad 2 will help Apple appeal to
customers who would have otherwise bought a device from Amazon.  “That would be a good defensive move by Apple,” said
Canalys’s Jones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  