-- Arab Spring Unrest Sent 2011 Tourism Down 30% in Egypt, Tunisia
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-03-06T15:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/arab-spring-unrest-sent-2011-tourism-down-30-in-egypt-tunisia.html
Tourism in  Egypt  and  Tunisia  plunged
more than 30 percent last year amid the popular upheavals
sweeping the Arab world, said Taleb Rifai, secretary general of
the United Nations World Tourism Organization.  Arrivals dropped 33 percent through the third quarter in
Egypt and 30.7 percent for the full year in Tunisia, according
to Rifai. Still, that’s a “remarkable” improvement given that
tourism tumbled about 80 percent after the unrest began in the
first months of 2011, he said. He predicted a rebound this year
to 2010 levels.  “Tourism won’t defy all the realities on the ground,
specifically political realities, but we believe 2012 will see
the resumption of tourism trends as they were in 2010,” Rifai
said today by telephone from Berlin, where he will present the
UNWTO’s report on 2011 tourism trends and figures on March 8.  The Arab Spring took a toll on tourism in cash-strapped
nations in the  Middle East  and North Africa, costing the region
more than $7 billion, according to the Arab Tourism Organization
in  Jeddah ,  Saudi Arabia. (SABIC)  The number of visitors to North Africa
and the Middle East dropped 12 percent and 8 percent last year,
the Madrid-based UNWTO said.  Tourism is the world’s third-largest industry, providing
one in every 12 jobs, according to Rifai. Egypt counts on
foreign visitors for 16 percent of its gross domestic product
and 14 percent of jobs while in Tunisia, tourism accounts for 17
percent of GDP and more than 15 percent of jobs, the London-
based World Travel & Tourism Council said.  Tunisia’s summer high season will be a “very important
test,” Rifai said. Both Egypt and Tunisia “are making a
tremendous effort” to rebuild the industry, he said.  “Things won’t settle down soon but they must keep working
on the new source market destinations and the newcomers of the
world of tourism,” Rifai said. “This is a tsunami of changes,
and they will take time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  