-- Arabtec Stake Boost May Signal Aabar Seeks Control, ING Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-03-06T11:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/arabtec-stake-boost-signals-aabar-seeking-dubai-builder-control-ing-says.html
Aabar Investments PJSC (AABAR)  raising its
stake in  Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  may signal its intention to control
the Dubai-based builder after pulling a $1.74 billion bid two
years ago, according to ING Investment Management.  Aabar, the  Abu Dhabi  government company which owns stakes
in  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , increased its ownership in the
United Arab Emirates’ biggest construction company to 5.28
percent, according to data posted on Dubai’s stock market. The
 shareholding is listed  under Aabar Petroleum Investments Co.,
which in 2008 sold most of its energy assets to Mubadala
Development Co., another investment unit owned by the Abu Dhabi
government. Emirates Construction Material Co. owns a 5.03
percent stake, the data shows.  “It’s obvious from an investment size perspective that
Aabar will not stop at 5.28 percent,” said  Yazan Abdeen , who
helps oversee about $250 million as a  fund manager  at ING in
Dubai. “So it has already acquired more and is in the
consolidation phase now. I expect this percentage will increase
considerably, which will entitle Aabar for control of Arabtec.”  Arabtec shares  slumped 7.1 percent, the most since March
2011, to 3.25 dirhams. The stock has surged 104 percent this
year on speculation investors are accumulating the shares on
bets the company will benefit from regional infrastructure
spending. That compares with a 25 percent gain in Dubai’s  DFM
General Index. (DFMGI)   The builder, whose board meets tomorrow to discuss
financial results, may post a  57 percent drop  in full-year
profit to 133 million dirhams ($36 million), according to the
average estimate of 12 analysts on Bloomberg.  ’Rumor Mill’  Arabtec has been eying opportunities outside its home
market after construction work slowed in Dubai. The company said
in November the value of a contract it won in  Saudi Arabia  may
rise to 1.5 billion riyals ($400 million). A unit of Arabtec, a
builder of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai, in January won a
561 million-dirham contract for the Dubai International
Airport’s expansion. One of its units also won 256 million
dirhams in contracts in Abu Dhabi this year.  “The disclosure has restarted the rumor mill, with some
saying that it supports the view that there is a renewed bid on
the table,” said  Julian Bruce , the Dubai-based director of
institutional sales trading at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  Aabar offered in 2010 to buy 70 percent of Arabtec through
the purchase of bonds that would be exchanged for shares for 2.3
dirhams each. After the deal fell through, Arabtec and Aabar
said they planned a “strategic partnership” instead. Arabtec
Chief Financial Officer  Ziad Makhzoumi  couldn’t be reached for
comments.  Any entity that owns 5 percent or more of a company’s
shares is required to disclose ownership details to the stock
market, according to the Securities & Commodities Authority
rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  