-- Arabtec Slumps After Aabar Stake Boost Stems Rally: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-03-06T13:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/arabtec-slumps-after-aabar-stake-boost-stems-rally-dubai-mover.html
Arabtec Holding PJSC (ARTC)  slumped the
most in a year on investor speculation a rally was overdone and
after data showed  Aabar Investments PJSC (AABAR)  raised its stake in the
 United Arab Emirates ’ biggest construction company.  Shares of Dubai-based Arabtec, up 104 percent so far this
year, tumbled 7.1 percent, the most since March 2011, to 3.25
dirhams at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate. The company was the
 biggest decliner  on Dubai’s measure, which dropped 3.7 percent,
the most in more than a year. It was the world’s worst-
performing index today, among 93 benchmarks tracked by
Bloomberg.  Arabtec had rallied amid bets the company will benefit from
regional infrastructure spending and secure contracts in  Abu
Dhabi , which said in January it plans to resume real-estate
projects after reviewing their viability. Aabar, the Abu Dhabi
government company which owns a stake in  Daimler AG (DAI) , increased
its ownership to 5.28 percent, according to data posted on
Dubai’s stock exchange.  “We had a lot of rumors surrounding Arabtec, some of them
were related to potential orders it could win from Abu Dhabi,
and at the end of the day that wasn’t the case,” said Sebastien Henin, who helps oversee $100 million at The National Investor
in Abu Dhabi. “We ended up with the usual suspect buying only
five percent in the stock. Some investors were disappointed and
started to book profits. We could see some more profit-taking
because it’s such a disappointment.’  Arabtec shares are trading at 33 times estimated earnings
compared with 10 times for Dubai’s benchmark.  Six analysts 
recommend investors sell Arabtec shares, while nine have a hold
rating on the stock, according to Bloomberg data. Two recommend
investors buy the shares.  New Markets  The builder, whose board meets tomorrow to discuss
financial results, may post a  57 percent drop  in full-year
profit to 133 million dirhams ($36 million), according to the
average estimate of 12 analysts on Bloomberg.  Arabtec has been eying opportunities outside its home
market after construction work slowed in Dubai. The company said
in November the value of a contract it won in  Saudi Arabia (SABIC)  may
rise to 1.5 billion riyals ($400 million).  A unit of Arabtec, a builder of the world’s tallest tower
in Dubai, in January won a 561 million-dirham contract for the
Dubai International Airport’s expansion. One of its units also
won 256 million dirhams in contracts in Abu Dhabi this year.  Aabar offered in 2010 to buy 70 percent of Arabtec through
the purchase of bonds that would be exchanged for shares for 2.3
dirhams each. After the deal fell through, Arabtec and Aabar
said they planned a ‘‘strategic partnership” instead. Arabtec
Chief Financial Officer  Ziad Makhzoumi  couldn’t be reached for
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  