-- Marchionne: Fiat Needs an Asia Partner
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t ,   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-03-06T23:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/marchionne-sees-fiat-needing-asia-partner-after-gm-peugeot-cars.html
Fiat SpA (F)  is scouring Asia for a
possible partner after the planned alliance between General
Motors Co. and PSA Peugeot Citroen shrank the pool of European
candidates.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who says he’s
searching for a third partner after merging with Chrysler Group
LLC to help reduce development costs and boost sales in fast-
growing countries, said teaming with either  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) 
or  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  makes sense. Fiat and Chrysler only sell
half the cars Marchionne said is needed for long-term survival.  “Those two companies would be complementary to Fiat’s
activities,” Marchionne said at the Geneva International Motor
Show. “We talk continuously with Suzuki; we talk with Mazda; we
talk with everyone.”  Marchionne’s options in  Europe  are narrowing following the
GM- Peugeot (UG)  deal, with most of the region’s carmakers already in
alliances and nine of Europe’s auto and truck brands part of
 Volkswagen AG (VOW3) . An Asian alliance would also help in Fiat’s
weakest region, which accounts for 3 percent of revenue. Asia
accounts for 44 percent of global deliveries, according to
Bloomberg Industries.  While alliances don’t always provide the anticipated
savings, Marchionne said in January that carmakers need to
consolidate to compete with VW, which had a 23.3 percent market
share in Europe last year. He told reporters last week that
there aren’t “many partners left” in the region.  Dwindling Options  Fiat  shares  have slumped 31 percent over the past 12
months, the second-biggest decline on the Stoxx 600 Automobiles
& Parts index after Peugeot. Both carmakers have junk credit
ratings at Moody’s Investors Service.  Adding a new alliance or joint venture is “not a
priority” for  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Stephen Odell, the automaker’s
Europe chief, said in a March 5 interview.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) 
also has no plans to set up a strategic partnership in Europe,
Allan Rushforth, the South Korean carmaker’s chief for the
region, said yesterday.  “There aren’t many more opportunities for alliances
following recent developments,”  Daimler AG (DAI)  CEO Dieter Zetsche
said in Geneva. “I don’t think we will see many other
alliances; there is only really one player who might. There
aren’t so many they could do it with.”  Asian Options  That has left Marchionne, who said he’s still open to a
European deal as well, to pursue options in Asia. To create the
necessary car-making efficiencies, automotive groups need to
build 8 million to 10 million vehicles a year, Marchionne has
said. Currently only GM, VW and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  are producing
at or near that level.  Mazda,  Japan ’s most export-reliant carmaker, said March 5
it will raise as much as 151.2 billion yen ($1.9 billion) in a
record share sale to replenish capital as it braces for its
biggest annual loss in 11 years. Mazda President Takashi Yamanouchi said last month that the company was “aggressively”
looking for a partner.  “Mazda has a capital alliance with Ford and technical
alliances with seven different companies worldwide, and for now,
we have no plans to have another capital alliance,” Kozue
Nitta, a Mazda spokeswoman, said yesterday. “However, to
supplement our products, technology and/or business in various
regions, we want to aggressively encourage more partnerships.”  VW-Suzuki  Suzuki, whose Maruti Suzuki  India  Ltd. makes almost half of
the cars sold in fast-growing India, began arbitration
procedures in November aimed at ending its two-year-old
partnership with VW. Each company has accused the other of
breaching their cooperation agreement, which was meant to supply
Suzuki with technology and provide VW with access to the Indian
car market. Fiat already supplies engines to Suzuki.  Hideki Taguchi, a Suzuki spokesman, declined to comment on
a potential tie-up with Fiat.  “ Asia ’s more likely to be where we’ll see partnerships
because of the growth and more fragmented nature of the Chinese
market,” said  Itay Michaeli , an analyst for Citigroup Inc. in
 New York . “There are some Asian manufacturers that could use
some regional support from a global automaker.”  Fiat-Chrysler earned 3 percent of revenue in Asia-Pacific
last year, compared with 37 percent in Europe and 45 percent in
 North America . Asia accounted for 5 percent of operating profit.
Fiat controls Chrysler with a 58.5 percent stake.  Investments Frozen  Fiat, which froze new European investments after losing 500
million euros last year in the region with its volume car
business, doesn’t expect a recovery until at least 2014. The
Italian carmaker relied on Chrysler for all of its net income in
2011 as U.S. sales climbed 36 percent, the CEO said last month.  “Marchionne has a great footprint now in the U.S.,” said
Gary Silberg, a Chicago-based KPMG automotive researcher. “He’s
got to figure out his problems in Europe with Fiat. Why would he
want to double down there? So Asia seems to make a lot of
sense.”  GM (GM)  and Peugeot announced last week a broad alliance that
will include joint purchasing and vehicle development in an
effort to revitalize their European operations. GM will buy 7
percent of the French carmaker, which will sell new shares in a
1 billion-euro rights offering.  Marchionne held talks with Peugeot regarding a possible
combination in 2009. The discussions ended because the Peugeot
family didn’t want to lose control over the carmaker, a person
familiar with the matter said last month. GM in 2005 paid $2
billion to Fiat to exit a failed five-year partnership. Four
years later, Marchionne held unsuccessful talks with the
Detroit-based company to buy its Opel unit in  Germany .  “For something as large as what the industry needs to do
to fix all of Europe, I just wonder if these alliances are
enough,” said David Whiston, an analyst with Morningstar Inc.
in Chicago. “It certainly may be a great starting point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Geneva via the Milan newsroom at 
4231 or  tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in Geneva via the newsroom in Southfield,
Michigan, at   ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in  Tokyo  at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 