-- Market Secrets Risk Superdowngrade for Muni Issuers: Joe Mysak
-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 2012-03-06T00:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/market-secrets-risk-superdowngrade-for-muni-issuers-joe-mysak.html
The municipal market doesn’t like
surprises.  That’s why words such as transparency and disclosure are
used so often by municipal analysts, investors and regulators.
Tell us, they have been saying for most of the past three
decades. Is something wrong? Taxes falling short? Swaps blowing
apart? Attendance flagging? Mill not working? People moving out?
Tell us. Tell us.  So if you are a municipal issuer and you want to make the
market happy, it’s not a good idea to keep a secret for a couple
of years only to have one of the rating companies discover that
something seems to be amiss, and then to reward your furtiveness
with a superdowngrade.  A superdowngrade is one that takes an issuer down three,
four, five levels or more, sometimes from investment grade to
non-investment grade. Even in a market that rarely trades, like
munis, such actions have consequences, like falling prices or
evaluations.  Consider the Newark Housing Authority in  New Jersey . In
December, Standard & Poor’s cut the rating on the authority’s
$376 million in 2004 and 2007 bonds to a non-investment grade BB
from AA-, an eight-notch downgrade. Prices on some of the bonds
fell to as little as 89 cents on the dollar. The authority is
now being sued by bondholders for negligence.  Follow the Money  What happened? In 2007, the authority sold $176 million in
bonds to refund $200 million in debt sold in 2004. The bonds
were backed by annual $12.5 million lease payments by the Port
Authority of  New York  and New Jersey and earnings generated by
the $3.125 million debt-service reserve fund, which was invested
in an MBIA Inc. guaranteed-investment contract paying 5 percent.  Fast forward to the fall of 2011.  Standard & Poor’s  noticed
that the bond’s construction fund had been drawn down, and asked
trustee U.S. Bancorp why.  S&P continues the story in December’s downgrade.  “In 2009, in accordance with the bond’s supplemental
indenture, the investment contract’s cancellation was triggered
following the downgrade of MBIA and the funds were subsequently
moved to a money-market fund to be reinvested in U.S.
Treasuries,” according to the rating company. “Investment
earnings on the debt service reserve under the GIC were 5%. In
fiscal 2010, the investment earnings from the money market fund
yielded a return lower than the 5 percent needed” to meet debt
service.  The authority needed just a little bit more to pay the
bondholders. It instructed the trustee to transfer $82,000 from
the construction fund of one of the bond issues to cover the
shortfall, rather than dip into the debt-service  reserve fund .  Back in 1994, in connection with an amendment to its
Exchange Act Rule 15c2-12, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said there were 11 material events that must be
disclosed to municipal-bond buyers as soon as possible.  Among these were unscheduled draws on reserves,
substitution of credit or liquidity providers, and anything
affecting collateral.  These were called the “11 deadly sins,” by people in the
market and by SEC officials making speeches. The SEC later added
to the list. The theme was simple: If there’s anything going on
behind the scenes in a  bond issue , issuers must let investors
know about it by sending out material-event disclosures.  I asked Richard Marino, the primary credit analyst at S&P
who gave the superdowngrade to the Newark Housing Authority, why
the downgrade occurred in December 2011 if the GIC was canceled
in 2009 and the transfer from the reserve fund took place in
2010. He told me that the authority never said anything about
them.  No Disclosure  Shouldn’t these have been disclosed, I asked him, in a
material-events notice? “Under normal conditions, yes,” he
said. “We went back, and we couldn’t find any disclosure.”  S&P downgraded the authority to below investment grade
because pledged revenue for the bonds -- the  Port Authority 
payments and the money-market fund earnings -- would not equal
debt service.  I called Marvin Walton, deputy executive director of the
authority, and asked him about it. He said the situation with
MBIA was widely known at the time, and if the authority hadn’t
canceled the GIC, it would have been “in worse condition than
we already are.”  The collapse of MBIA, and most of the bond-insurance
industry, was so well-known that it didn’t need to be disclosed.  I found this a novel interpretation of the rules. The
authority did disclose the Dec. 5 superdowngrade of its bonds in
a “Notice of Reportable Event for Continuing Disclosure,”
posting the rating company’s report on the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board’s Electronic Municipal Market Access website on
Dec. 20.  Walton also told me that S&P would soon be contacted
because the authority, on Feb. 17, replaced the GIC, although he
wouldn’t say with what. That hasn’t been publicly disclosed,
either.  ( Joe Mysak  is editor of Bloomberg Brief’s daily Municipal
Market and author of the Encyclopedia of Municipal Bonds, just
published by Bloomberg/Wiley. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Henry at   dhenry2@bloomberg.net . 