-- Harrisburg Assets Lead Would-Be Buyers to Line Up in Pennsylvania Capital
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-03-06T20:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/harrisburg-assets-lead-would-be-buyers-to-line-up-in-pennsylvania-capital.html
An incinerator that pushed
 Harrisburg (9661MF)  into insolvency generated inquiries from five
prospective buyers, while another five expressed interest in
running the water and sewer systems serving  Pennsylvania’s
capital (9661MF) .  The feelers about the waste-to-energy plant run by a
 Covanta Holding Corp. (CVA)  unit and on other municipal assets were
received by the Harrisburg Authority, which oversees the
operations, according to documents posted today on the website
of David Unkovic, the city’s receiver. The deadline to submit
bidding qualifications was yesterday.  “Having five interested parties for each of the assets is
a good development,” Unkovic said today by telephone. “It will
lead to a good process.”  Selling or leasing assets is part of a plan from Unkovic,
 Pennsylvania ’s first municipal receiver, to deal with more than
$300 million in incinerator-related debt, five times the city’s
general-fund budget. The community of 49,500 residents backed
financing an overhaul of the power plant, which hasn’t produced
enough revenue to cover the cost.  Cambridge Project Development Inc.  of Miami;  Interstate
Waste Services Inc.  of Ramsey,  New Jersey ; the  Lancaster County
Solid Waste Management Authority (26675MF)  in Lancaster, Pennsylvania; the
National Water Fund; and  Wheelabrator Technologies , a Hampton,
New Hampshire-based unit of  Waste Management Inc. (WM) , submitted
statements of qualifications related to the incinerator.  Water and Sewer  Aqua America Inc. (WTR)  of  Bryn Mawr , Pennsylvania; CH2M Hill
Inc. of Englewood,  Colorado ; Pennsylvania American Water Co., a
Hershey, Pennsylvania-based unit of American Water Works Co.;
U.S. Facilities Inc. of Philadelphia; and  United Water , a
Harrington, New Jersey-based affiliate of  GDF Suez (GSZ) , expressed
interest in running the city’s water and sewer systems,
according to the documents.  The parties weren’t required to say how much they may
offer. The Lancaster County authority last year said it would
pay $124 million for the incinerator, based on certain
conditions.  The level of interest “bodes very well for the receiver’s
plan and the strategy the receiver is taking,” said Bob
Philbin, a spokesman for Mayor  Linda Thompson , who supports the
fiscal blueprint.  Winnowing Down Field  During the next two weeks, Unkovic will review the
statements and determine which parties he will negotiate with,
he said. The next step will involve a “smaller number” of
would-be bidders, he said.  Firms interested in buying or leasing the city’s parking
facilities must submit their qualifications to the agency
overseeing them by March 12, and Unkovic said today that
“interest is strong.” Once he knows the value of the assets,
Unkovic has said that he will then determine how to tackle the
remainder of the city’s debt. His plan for fiscal recovery must
be approved by the state’s Commonwealth Court.  Unkovic expects to close any transactions by June, subject
to court approval. State law bars the city from seeking
bankruptcy court protection until July. A majority of the City
Council sought unsuccessfully to take that step last year.  A bid to put Harrisburg into Chapter 9 proceedings was
dismissed on Nov. 23 by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary D.  France  in
Harrisburg. She said the filing wasn’t allowed under state law.
The City Council is seeking to appeal that decision.  Council President Wanda Williams, city Controller Dan Miller and Treasurer John R. Campbell opposed asset sales or
leases in a court filing Feb. 29. They said such privatization
would give a “windfall to  Wall Street ” at the city’s expense.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia
at   rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 