-- Marubeni-led Group Wins Contract for Offshore Wind Project Study
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2012-03-06T09:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/marubeni-led-group-wins-contract-for-offshore-wind-project-study.html
Japanese trading company  Marubeni
Corp. (8002)  and  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  are among a group
that won a contract for a feasibility study to build an offshore
wind farm off the coast of Fukushima.  The group will install three floating offshore  wind
turbines  with a total capacity of 16 megawatts by March 2016 as
part of the study under a contract from the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry, the group said today in a  statement . It will
also build a transmission substation.  The pilot project “will greatly contribute to the
commercialization of large-size floating offshore wind farm
technology,” the group said in the statement. The study is
aimed at helping Japan become a major exporter of the technology
for floating offshore turbines, it said.  Japan  is seeking to rely less on nuclear energy following
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi disaster in March last year, with the
country’s parliament passing a bill in August guaranteeing
prices higher than market rates for wind, solar and geothermal
energy to encourage renewable-energy development.  Japan is targeting  a capacity of about 1 gigawatt from
floating offshore wind turbines, Masanori Sato, a trade ministry
official in charge of promoting clean energy, said by phone
today, declining to give target. Most offshore wind farms around
the world use wind turbines attached to foundations that are
fixed on the bottom of the sea, said Justin Wu, head of wind
analysis at Bloomberg New New Energy Finance in  Hong Kong .  Floating offshore wind is a technology that hasn’t yet been
commercialized, he said.  Wind Hub  Fukushima prefecture, home to  Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s (9501) 
devastated atomic plant, aims to become a major hub for the
production and deployment of wind turbines, according to the
statement.  “There is growing expectation in Fukushima” to create
jobs and start new businesses in clean energy, Seiji Nishimura,
a senior manager at  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) , which is part of the
group, said today at a press briefing.  The trade ministry has set aside 12.5 billion yen ($154
million) as the ceiling for the initial stages of the study.
Other participants in the project include  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,
Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding Co. and the  University of
Tokyo .  Japan has cumulative wind power capacity of  2,522
megawatts , according to the Japan Power Wind Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net 
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net 
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 