-- Harvest Shares Surge on Venezuela Divestment Plan: Caracas Mover
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-03-06T21:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/harvest-shares-surge-on-venezuela-divestment-plan-caracas-mover.html
Harvest Natural Resources Inc. (HNR) 
climbed the most in four years after announcing it’s in
exclusive talks to sell assets in  Venezuela .  Harvest rose 23 percent to $7.70 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest gain since June 18, 2007. The Houston-based oil
producer is in exclusive talks to sell its 32 percent stake in
the Petrodelta joint venture in Venezuela, it said in a
statement today.  “While no dollar amounts were provided, news of an
imminent sale has nonetheless put a charge into shares today,”
Chad Mabry, senior oil and gas analyst at Rodman & Renshaw LLC
in Houston, said today in an e-mailed note to clients.  Harvest has had trouble getting regular payments from
Petrodelta majority partner  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , and its
assets in the South American country are undervalued because of
political risk,  John Malone , a senior analyst at Global Hunter
Securities LLC in New York, said today in a telephone interview.  “You can’t be certain that politics will change in
Venezuela,” Malone said. “It’s a fantastic asset, but whoever
is going to make it produce is going to be someone with very
deep pockets and a little more leverage with the government.”  About 4.3 million Harvest shares have changed hands today,
more than nine times its 90-day average.  Rising Production  PDVSA, as the Caracas-based state oil company is known, has
a 60 percent stake in Petrodelta. The venture produced 31,205
barrels a day in 2011, an increase of 33 percent from 2010,
Harvest said today in the statement.  Harvest was raised to “buy” from “neutral” at Pritchard
Capital Partners LLC by equity analyst John Abbott. His 12-month
target price is $12.00 a share.  “Somebody who can navigate the political risk better might
be willing to pay up for it,” Malone said. A strategic buyer
such as an Asian national  oil company  might buy the assets, he
said.  “If the assets were in  Colombia , they would be worth
significantly more. But they’re not,” Malone said.  Harvest’s present value of net future reserves in
Petrodelta was $543 million at the end of last year and would
imply a value of $13 to $14 a share if a Petrodelta sale values
its reserves in that range, said Mabry.  Petrodelta is self funding, produces dividends and has
margins of around $30 a barrel, Harvest Chief Executive Officer
James Edmiston said on a conference call in August 2011.  “The upside technically on this asset is extremely high.
So the real issue that we’re talking about is political risk,”
he said at the time. “There is no reason to sell this thing in
a fire sale. It’s not draining resources from the company, it’s
not draining capital from the company.”  Petrodelta’s proved plus probable reserves on Dec. 31,
2011, net to Harvest, are 103.7 million barrels of oil
equivalent, the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  