-- Asian Central Banks Poised to Pause as Oil Adds Price Pressures: Economy
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-03-07T02:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/asia-s-central-banks-may-be-nearing-end-of-rate-cuts-on-oil-risk.html
Asia-Pacific central banks will
probably hold off on adding monetary stimulus this week as
higher  oil prices  combine with diminishing concern of a euro-
region meltdown to make the case for preserving firepower.  South  Korea  and New Zealand will hold  interest rates 
tomorrow, according to all economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
 Indonesia  will keep its key rate at 5.75 percent the same day
after an unexpected cut last month, while Malaysia will stand
pat for a fifth meeting a day later, separate surveys indicated.  The 18 percent jump in crude oil since September risks
spurring price pressures in a region that’s seen little
slackening in job markets as employers retain workers even with
exports moderating. A report today showing Australia’s economy
grew at half the pace analysts projected last quarter reminds
that further stimulus may yet be warranted later this year.  “Growth or inflation risks are not compelling enough to
push central banks aggressively in any direction,” said Matt Hildebrandt, an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Singapore.
“Central banks have probably shifted from growth concerns to
being neutral.”  Most Asian stocks and currencies have climbed this year as
the region’s growth outpaces the U.S. and  Europe , luring
investors. Developing  Asia  will expand 7.3 percent in 2012
compared with 1.8 percent in the U.S. and a euro-area
contraction, the  International Monetary Fund  forecast in January.  Iran Tensions  Oil prices have risen amid concern international tensions
with Iran will disrupt supplies. South Korea said yesterday
higher oil prices are making its economic outlook increasingly
uncertain.  “We suspect that uncertainty over external developments
will be pivotal for most central banks,” said Sukhy Ubhi, an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “Asia’s policy
makers are likely to believe that it is too soon to know whether
the global economy will gain momentum or falter. It is also
unclear whether geopolitical tensions between Iran and the West
will ease or escalate.”  Elsewhere in Asia,  Malaysia  may say export growth slowed in
January, while Taiwan’s rebounded last month, surveys showed. In
Europe,  Spain  may report industrial output fell for a fifth
month in January from a year ago, while German factory orders
probably rose at a slower pace in January from December.  U.S. companies added 215,000 workers in February, after
increasing January payrolls by 170,000, ADP Employer Services
may say today. The Labor Department may report non-farm
productivity slowed less than earlier estimated last quarter,
and the  Mortgage Bankers Association  will release data for loan
applications.  Steady Rates  The Bank of Korea will keep the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate at 3.25 percent for a ninth month, according to
all 16 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Inflation moderated to
a 14-month low of 3.1 percent in February.  Australia ’s central bank held rates yesterday and
reiterated it has scope to cut as Europe remains a potential
source of shocks “for some time yet.” Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas will consider oil costs in deciding monetary policy,
Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday, after lowering rates
last week.  Some central banks are still cutting. Vietnam said late
yesterday it will reduce refinancing and repurchase rates in the
“next few days” by 1 percentage point amid improved economic
data and easing inflation. It last lowered the repurchase rate
in July and the refinancing rate in 2009.  Surging oil prices may worsen government fiscal positions,
erode company profit margins and hurt domestic consumption.
Malaysian Airline System Bhd., the nation’s largest long-haul
carrier, reported a 2.5 billion ringgit ($827 million) loss for
2011 as costlier fuel countered higher passenger loads.  Construction Pick-Up  Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand  Governor Alan Bollard will
leave the official cash rate at a record-low 2.5 percent, all 16
economists surveyed predict. Construction rose last quarter for
the first time in six, a report showed this week, signaling the
economy is picking up after earthquakes curbed demand in 2011.  Indonesian inflation slowed for a sixth straight month in
February. A government plan to raise fuel prices may revive cost
pressures, limiting scope for further rate cuts. Inflation may
exceed the central bank’s target this year if prices of
subsidized fuel increase by 1,000 rupiah (11 U.S. cents) per
liter or more, Governor Darmin Nasution said in February.  Bank Negara Malaysia will keep rates “accommodative”
because the global economic outlook remains uncertain, Governor
Zeti Akhtar Aziz said last month. Inflation slowed to a one-year
low of 2.7 percent in January while growth eased last quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  