-- Asian Currencies Decline on Greece’s Debt Swap, China Slowdown Concerns
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-03-06T08:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/asian-currencies-decline-on-greece-s-debt-swap-china-slowdown-concerns.html
Asian currencies declined, led by
the  Indian rupee  and  Indonesia ’s rupiah, on concern Greece will
struggle to secure the majority needed to push through its swap
with private creditors this week, deterring risk-taking.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index (ADXY)  fell for a third
day, the longest losing streak in two months, and the MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index of stocks headed for its steepest two-day slump
since mid-December. Greece’s 130 billion euro ($172 billion)
bailout depends on it getting a 75 percent participation rate in
the debt swap before a March 8 deadline.  China ’s yuan traded at
the weakest level since January after the government set a lower
growth target for 2012 and the central bank said the currency’s
trading band may be widened.  “It’s a relatively quiet market with events in  Greece 
coming up,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst in  Seoul  at
Samsung Futures Inc. “China’s growth-forecast revision was
already reflected in yesterday’s market.”  The rupee fell 0.5 percent to 50.0812 per dollar as of 2:08
p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled Bloomberg, while the
rupiah dropped 0.5 percent to 9,190, prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg show.  South Korea ’s won closed 0.4 percent
lower at 1,122.64 and Malaysia’s ringgit declined 0.2 percent to
3.0240.  Private investors holding about 20 percent of Greek bonds
have declared their participation in the debt swap, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg from company reports.  Germany ’s DSW
investor protection group has advised private-sector bondholders
to reject the offer.  Indonesia Outflows  Other reports heightened concerns about a global slowdown.
U.K. retail sales fell for a second month in February, the
 British Retail Consortium  said and data later today may show the
European economy shrank in the fourth quarter.  The rupiah fell to a one-week low on concern global
investors will repatriate funds as 15 trillion rupiah ($1.6
billion) of one-year bills mature this week. Overseas investors
cut holdings of sovereign debt by 4 percent to 227 trillion
rupiah in February, according to finance ministry data.  “We expect the rupiah to weaken because of the sovereign
bond maturing soon,” said Yura Pradipta, a Jakarta-based
currency trader at PT Bank Internasional Indonesia. “Offshore
funds may step out of the Indonesian market first.”  Yuan Band  The yuan slipped for a second day, losing 0.03 percent to
6.3081 per dollar and touched 6.3189, a level not seen since Jan.
31.  Asia ’s largest economy set a growth target of 7.5 percent
for 2012 yesterday, the lowest goal since 2004.  China may “appropriately” widen the yuan’s trading band
to better reflect market supply and demand, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported yesterday, citing People’s Bank of China
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan. The currency is currently allowed to
trade as much as 0.5 percent either side of its daily  reference
rate .  “Investors were a bit surprised by China’s cut in the
growth target and that damped optimism surrounding the global
economic recovery,” said Stella Lee, president of Success
Futures & Foreign Exchange Ltd. “Zhou’s comments on flexibility
don’t signal any near-term yuan movement but concern the long-
term exchange-rate reform.”  Elsewhere,  Thailand ’s baht declined 0.1 percent to 30.72
against the greenback, Taiwan’s  dollar  dropped 0.1 percent to
NT$29.538 and the Philippine peso weakened 0.2 percent to 42.963.
Vietnam’s dong advanced 0.3 percent to 20,830.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 