-- Australian Residents Flee as NSW River Nears 160-Year Peak
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-03-06T06:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/australian-township-of-wagga-wagga-evacuated-as-river-nears-160-year-peak.html
About 8,000 people were ordered to
leave their homes in the New South Wales town of Wagga Wagga
after  emergency services  predicted the local river would reach
its highest level in almost 160 years.  The Murrumbidgee River is forecast to peak at 10.9 meters
(36 feet) today with floodwaters threatening to breach a levy
and inundate the town of more than 60,000 people, the NSW  State
Emergency Service  said. Soldiers helped stack sandbags overnight
to protect properties as residents loaded furniture on to trucks
and headed for higher ground.  “We are planning for the worst, hoping for the best,”
Mark Murdoch, assistant commissioner of the NSW Police Force,
told reporters today. The downtown area of Wagga Wagga, 460
kilometers (285 miles) southwest of Sydney, faces significant
flooding if the levy doesn’t hold, he said in comments broadcast
by  Sky News .  About 75 percent of Australia’s most populous state is
affected by flooding as rainfall causes rivers to burst their
banks, with 12,900 people forced to leave their homes across
NSW, according to the SES. Grain exports this month may be lower
than expected as floodwaters cut access to bulk handling sites
on the east coast,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  commodity
strategist  Luke Mathews  said in an e-mailed note today.  The Murrumbidgee is expected to peak just under 10.9 meters
at about 6 p.m. local time today, the  Bureau of Meteorology  said
on its website. A 10.9-meter peak for the Murrumbidgee River
would match the high recorded in July 1853, according to Wagga
Wagga’s  website .  The NSW government declared a state of emergency for the
town and said if the levee is breached people may not be able to
return to their homes for three days.  Rescuing Sheep  Television images showed muddy water lapping at the roofs
of houses in parts of Wagga Wagga and farmers rescuing sheep
from inundated fields by boat.  Flooding in parts of eastern  Australia  may provide a
“solid base” for winter and irrigated crops,  Paul Morris ,
executive director at the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and
Resource Economics and Sciences, said in Canberra today.  Flood warnings are also in place in neighboring Victoria
state to the south and northeastern Queensland state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  