-- Australia Dollar Extends Declines After RBA Leaves Door Open for Rate Cuts
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-03-06T07:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/australian-new-zealand-dollars-remain-lower-after-commodity-prices-drop.html
The Australian dollar fell to a two-
week low after the  Reserve Bank  left  interest rates  unchanged
and said it has scope to ease policy if needed.  The so-called Aussie also declined along with commodities
on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will weigh on global growth. New
Zealand’s currency, known as the kiwi, touched the lowest in
more than a month after data showed the country’s budget deficit
widened more than the government had estimated.  “The RBA has kept an easing bias,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a
currency strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “The
statement may have been more dovish than some people have
expected. I see more downside to the Aussie.”  Australia’s dollar weakened 0.4 percent to $1.0624 as of
6:04 p.m. in Sydney, after touching $1.0604, the lowest since
Feb. 23. The Aussie dropped 0.7 percent to 86.43 yen from
yesterday, when it fell 0.9 percent.  New Zealand ’s currency touched 81.33 U.S. cents, the
weakest since Jan. 25, before trading at 81.54 cents, 0.7
percent below yesterday’s close. It declined 1 percent to 66.31
yen. It earlier touched 66.18 yen, the least since Feb. 20.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board left the overnight cash-rate target at 4.25 percent, the
central bank said in a statement in Sydney today. The decision
was forecast by all 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Scope for Cuts  While the RBA said current settings are “appropriate for
the moment,” there is scope for easier policy if demand weakens
“materially,” according to the statement.  Traders expect the RBA will reduce borrowing costs by 40
basis points within a year, according a  Credit Suisse AG index 
based on swaps. That compares with 104 basis points in cuts
predicted on Feb. 1.  Australia ’s government bonds advanced, with yields on 10-
year debt dropping three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 4.01 percent.  Greece  is aiming to complete a bond exchange with private
investors in order to receive a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion)
bailout. It expects bondholders to accept the offer and is ready
to force them to participate if necessary, Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
 Athens .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares slid for a second
day, losing 1.1 percent. The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY) 
of raw materials slid 0.5 percent yesterday.  Agriculture export earnings for Australia, the largest wool
and beef shipper, may decline next fiscal year, the government’s
commodity forecaster said today. A report in New Zealand showed
that the nation’s budget deficit was NZ$473 million ($387
million) wider than forecast in the seven months through January
after earthquake insurance liabilities exceeded expectations.  N.Z. Deficit  New Zealand Prime Minister John Key is forecasting the
government will eliminate the shortfall by 2015 as it cuts
spending and reduces debt by selling as much as 49 percent of
four state-owned energy companies. Weaker world growth may curb
revenue, reducing the 2015 surplus to a third the size it
predicted in October, the government said last month.  Standard & Poor’s  reiterated in its Asia-Pacific semi-
annual review dated yesterday that New Zealand’s rating could
face “downward pressure” if its fiscal situation continues to
deteriorate.  S&P “hasn’t changed its view on credit quality of New
Zealand,” said Kyran Curry, a Melbourne-based credit analyst at
S&P. The ratings company said the outlook on AA foreign-currency
rating is stable.  -- Editors: Rocky Swift, Naoto Hosoda  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  