-- Australia Holds Key Rate as Shock Potential From Europe Lingers: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-06T05:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/australia-holds-benchmark-rate-at-4-25-on-optimisim-for-eu-u-s-outlook.html
Australia’s central bank reiterated
it has scope to cut  interest rates  as Europe remains a potential
source of shocks “for some time yet,” sending the nation’s
currency to the lowest level in 1 1/2 weeks.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board left the overnight
cash-rate target at 4.25 percent, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
said in a statement in Sydney today, using a phrase he employed
last month by calling policy “appropriate for the moment.”  Stevens’s second pause after two reductions late last year
reflects confidence U.S. companies will keep hiring and domestic
 employment  will be supported by A$456 billion ($483 billion) of
resource projects to meet Chinese demand. He maintained a view
that inflation will stay within the central bank’s 2 percent to
3 percent target range, even as the consumer-price index may
weaken in the next quarter or two.  The currency’s fall reflects “markets positioned for a
little more hawkishness and a dropping of the easing bias and it
hasn’t been delivered,” said Ben Jarman, a Sydney-based
economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  “Given the risks that are out
there, the RBA didn’t want to seem deaf to that.”  The local dollar fell 0.5 percent to $1.0615 at 4:16 p.m.
in Sydney from $1.0671 yesterday. It bought $1.0647 before the
decision. The three-year bond yield fell to 3.63 percent from
3.71 percent yesterday and the 10-year yield declined to 3.98
percent from 4.04 percent yesterday.  No ‘Deep Downturn’  Recent information indicates “the world economy will grow
at a below-trend pace this year, but does not suggest that a
deep downturn is occurring,” Stevens said. “Should demand
conditions weaken materially, the inflation outlook would
provide scope for easier monetary policy.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) , which has gained for 11
straight weeks, fell for a second straight day, losing 1.2
percent at 2:16 p.m. in Tokyo.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index of
stocks, down in four of the past five weeks, dropped 1.4 percent
to a two-week low.  The RBA’s decision to maintain the highest benchmark
borrowing costs among major developed economies was forecast by
all 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, has strengthened about 4 percent this year as
investors bet the nation’s economy will accelerate. It touched a
six-month high of $1.0856 on Feb. 29 after the  European Central
Bank  awarded 529.5 billion euros ($699 billion) in a second
round of three-year loans to banks.  ‘Source of Shocks’  “The acute financial pressures on banks in Europe have
been alleviated considerably by the actions of policy makers,
though there is more to do to put European banks and sovereigns
onto a sound footing for the longer term and  Europe  will remain
a potential source of shocks for some time yet,” Stevens said
today.  The European Union’s statistics office will say today gross
domestic product in the 17-nation euro area probably fell 0.3
percent in the last quarter of 2011 from the previous three-
month period, according to the median estimate of economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. That would be the first drop since the
second quarter of 2009 and in line with a Feb. 15 estimate.  China  is Australia’s biggest trading partner, and the RBA
has said it expects Chinese demand for commodities to spur the
domestic economy.  Manufacturing in  China expanded for a third straight month,
a purchasing managers index released last week showed. Still,
China yesterday pared the nation’s economic growth target to 7.5
percent from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005.  China Dependence  “Growth in China has moderated as was intended, but on
most indicators remains quite robust overall,” Stevens said
today.  In the U.S., recent reports have highlighted growth that’s
broadening, with data yesterday showing service industries
unexpectedly expanded last month at the fastest pace in a year.
Initial claims for jobless benefits fell in late February to the
lowest level since March 2008, a sign the labor market in the
world’s biggest economy is healing.  “Several European countries will record very weak outcomes,
but the  U.S. economy  is continuing a moderate expansion,”
Stevens said today.  Australia has grown more dependent on resources as
employment in manufacturing dropped by about 30 percent since
2007, while mining and government rose by more than 50 percent,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  estimates.  Manufacturers’ Woes  Auto exports plunged to the lowest since 1998 last year,
leading to job cuts at  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s local units. Sydney-based  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , the nation’s
second-largest department store chain, said Feb. 23 that sales
in the three months ended Jan. 28 fell 3.1 percent as spending
stalled and the strong currency made it cheaper for shoppers to
buy from overseas websites.  “If rates are likely to move anywhere in coming months,
the risk is clearly on the downside,” said  Craig James , a
senior economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s
biggest lender, in Sydney. “Manufacturing, services and
construction sectors are contracting; the high Aussie dollar is
still troubling businesses; inflation is well contained.”  Australia’s economic growth probably decelerated to 0.8
percent last quarter from 1 percent three months earlier, a
survey of 25 economists showed before a government report
tomorrow. That takes the nation’s average expansion in the last
nine months of 2011 to 1.1 percent, the fastest pace since 2007.  Inflation Outlook  The RBA “expects inflation to be in the 2 percent to 3
percent range,” Stevens said. “Credit growth remains modest.
Housing prices have shown some sign of stabilizing recently,
after having declined for most of 2011, but generally the
housing market remains soft.”  After a rate pause last month, the country’s four biggest
lenders --  Commonwealth Bank of Australia ,  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  -- raised  mortgage rates , citing higher
wholesale funding costs.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said the RBA’s decision today to keep
rates unchanged reflected Australia’s economic strength and
resilience at a time of continued global uncertainty.  “The RBA has shown it has policy flexibility to respond if
the global situation further deteriorates,” Swan said in a
statement. “It’s clear global turmoil is having an effect on
our region, but China continues to grow solidly and has a proven
capacity to support domestic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  