-- Australia Coal-Gas Explorers Face Cost Risks, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-03-06T00:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/australia-coal-gas-explorers-face-cost-risks-deutsche-bank-says.html
Coal-seam gas explorers including
 AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK)  and  Santos Ltd. (STO)  that are active in  Australia ’s
Queensland and New South  Wales  states face the risk of higher
costs and delays because of stricter rules, Deutsche Bank said.  Queensland’s Liberal National Party, expected to win the
March 24 state election, proposes regulatory changes, including
“full and fair” compensation to landowners, that may increase
the cost of new coal-seam gas wells, Tim Jordan, a Sydney-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank, wrote in a report.  The New South Wales government plans to release the results
of an environmental and safety review of the coal-seam gas
industry in the coming months that may lead to additional rules,
according to the report yesterday. The state also may remove a
royalty discount for coal-seam gas companies, bringing its
policy in line with other states, Jordan wrote.  AGL, Santos,  Dart Energy Ltd. (DTE)  and Arrow Energy Ltd. are
among companies developing coal-seam gas projects on the east
coast of Australia to meet rising demand for the fuel. Some
environmental groups and politicians are concerned the projects
will damage aquifers, contaminate and deplete water supplies,
and diminish the capacity of food-producing land, Jordan said.  “The growth of coal-seam gas exploration and production is
controversial, with significant resistance from organized
community opponents,” Jordan wrote. “Heightened scrutiny and
tighter regulation of existing and proposed developments risk
higher costs or delays for explorers and developers.”  Fracking Ban  Santos and its partners may spend more than A$16 billion
($17 billion) on coal-seam gas development in New South Wales,
supplying as much as 30 percent of east coast demand, according
to a December report commissioned by the Adelaide-based company.
Santos,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  are building more than
A$50 billion of projects in Queensland that will convert coal-
seam gas into liquid form for export to  Asia .  In neighboring New South Wales, the state government in
December extended a temporary ban on hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, for three more months. Fracking, the technology that
releases trapped gas by blasting water, sand and chemicals
underground, has drawn global opposition from environmental
groups concerned that the process contaminates water supplies.  New South Wales also is reviewing its royalties policy,
according to the report. The state doesn’t collect royalties
during the first five years of a coal-seam gas project and has a
lower rate than other states for the next four years, Jordan
wrote.  Labor Party  In Queensland, the  Labor Party  is on course to lose in the
March 24 vote, polls indicate. A Galaxy poll conducted Feb.
15-16 showed Labor, led by Premier  Anna Bligh , trailing the
opposition by 20 percentage points ahead of the election. The
survey of 800 people, which gave no margin of error, showed the
Liberal-National coalition with 60 percent and Labor with 40
percent in the two-party preferred voting system.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said in November that the
government would allocate A$150 million to establish an
independent committee to provide scientific advice on the impact
of coal-seam gas projects on water supplies.  “While the panel will not have direct responsibility for
approvals, its research will be published, making it impossible
for companies and state governments to ignore its findings,”
according to Deutsche Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 