-- Austria’s Debt Office Head Says Unnecessary to Change Bonds Issuance Plans
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-03-06T13:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/austria-s-debt-office-head-says-unnecessary-to-change-bonds-issuance-plans.html
Austria  sees no need to change its
debt issuance program and is sticking to its plan to stay below
the European Union’s deficit ceiling this year even as it
injects cash into  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  and KA Finanz.  The Alpine republic, which has been warned that more bank
bailouts may put its  credit rating  at risk, will raise  tax
revenue  this year to offset the new cash injections as well as a
writedown on previous bank aid. The country intends to lower the
deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product and won’t need to
sell more bonds to raise the cash, according to Austrian
officials.  “I don’t see a need to change the range we announced in
December,” said Martha Oberndorfer, head of the Austrian
Federal Financing Agency, referring to the agency’s plan to
issue 27 billion euros to 30 billion euros ($35 billion to $39
billion) of debt this year, of which 20 billion euros to 24
billion euros will be  government bonds .  The austerity plan approved by Austria’s government today
was thrown into disarray last week when the state-backed rescue
of Volksbanken created an unanticipated budget gap. Austria will
write off 70 percent of 1 billion euros it previously injected
into the lender, and provide 250 million euros of additional
funds. Under European budget rules, the writedown weighs on
Austria’s budget deficit this year, while the new cash only
affects the debt level.  ‘Worst Possible Times’  “This rescue act was really painful and came at the worst
possible time, in the middle of the budget consolidation
talks,” Finance Minister Maria Fekter told journalists
yesterday. The entire package foresees 27.9 billion euros in tax
hikes and spending cuts over five years to balance Austria’s
budget by 2016, from a deficit of 3.3 percent of GDP in 2011,
and lower its debt level to 70 percent from 72 percent.  The Volksbanken bailout came on top of already budgeted
new capital of as much as 600 million euros for nationalized 
KA Finanz related to  Greece ’s debt swap. Depending on how 
that swap is executed, there is an additional risk of 400
million euros on KA Finanz, Fekter said. The lender, in which
Austria warehouses risky assets of Kommunalkredit Austria AG,
will also get 1.1 billion euros next year when a debt warrant
Austria guaranteed expires, according to the ministry.  Austria added a bank tax increase of 25 percent to the
package, raising an additional 128 million euros annually from
this year until 2016 to transfer part of the costs to the
banking industry. The government is also changing the tax rules
for pension funds in a way that the ministry expects will bring
forward revenue of 900 million euros to this year, at the
expense of lowering revenue in future years, Fekter said.  She wanted to “make clear to the market that if we’re
stabilizing the financial sector, it will have to contribute,”
Fekter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  