-- Australian Construction Index Falls to Lowest in Four Months
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-06T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/australian-construction-index-falls-to-lowest-in-four-months.html
A gauge of  Australia’s construction 
industry fell to the lowest level in four months as commercial
construction remained weak and house building declined.  The construction performance index fell to 35.6 in February
from 39.8 a month earlier, the 21st monthly decline, a survey by
the Australian Industry Group and the Housing Industry
Association released in Sydney today showed. A reading below 50
represents a contraction.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens and his
board paused interest rates for a second month this week, after
two cuts late last year, as  China  and India increase demand for
iron ore, coal and liquefied natural gas. In contrast,
construction and manufacturing have weakened on signs parts of
the economy are buckling and shedding jobs under pressure from
the currency.  “The tentative signs of recovery that had emerged in the
closing months of 2011 as  interest rates  were lowered appear to
have dissipated since the start of this year,” Australian
Industry Group Director of Public Policy Peter Burn said in a
statement. “With new orders also weak in February and with
market interest rates somewhat higher, the outlook for the next
few months remains flat.”  After a rate pause last month, the country’s four biggest
lenders -- Commonwealth Bank of Australia, National Australia
Bank Ltd., Westpac Banking Corp. and Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. -- raised  mortgage rates , citing higher
wholesale funding costs.  Today’s report showed new orders fell 1.7 points to 34.2,
while a gauge of employment dropped 6.8 points to 38.5 last
month. Construction of houses fell 3.2 points to 37.9, while
apartments slid 0.2 point to 34.4, it showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  