-- Automakers Prepare for Deepening Decline in Europe Market
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r ,   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-03-06T12:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/automakers-prepare-for-deepening-slump-in-european-car-market.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and their competitors are preparing
for a deeper slump in European sales after deliveries at the
beginning of the year were at the low end of their expectations.  “The market is very difficult,” Didier Leroy, Toyota’s
chief for the region, told reporters at the Geneva International
Motor Show. “The start of the year is even worse in terms of
the market than was planned a few months ago.”  Toyota and BMW are predicting a contraction of about 5
percent in  Europe  this year, the fifth straight annual decline,
as the sovereign debt crisis prompts people to rein in spending.
Deliveries tumbled 6.6 percent to 1 million vehicles in January,
the European Automobile Manufacturers Association said, with the
decline accelerating from a 1.4 percent drop during 2011.  General Motors Co. (GM) , which lost $747 million in Europe last
year, announced plans last week to team with PSA Peugeot Citroen
in a bid to turn around operations.  Fiat SpA (F) , which controls
Chrysler Group LLC, is talking “continuously” with  Suzuki Motor
Corp. (7269)  and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  of  Japan , Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said in Geneva today, while BMW is seeking a
partner in North America, where luxury sales are more buoyant.  BMW-GM  Ford, which predicts a loss of as much as $600 million in
Europe in 2012, is stopping production on some days to cut
inventory, Stephen Odell, its chief for the region, said at the
Swiss show late yesterday.  “Clearly the demand is at the lower end or indeed below
the lower end of our expectations,” Odell said. “Frankly, it’s
almost impossible to predict.”  BMW said today it’s in talks with GM on various topics as
it seeks a U.S. ally, adding that the Detroit-based carmaker’s
accord with Peugeot doesn’t threaten its own cooperation with
the French company on hybrid technology and engines for the Mini
small car. Stephen Girsky, GM’s vice chairman, declined to
comment on any negotiations with BMW today.  “Europe will be an uphill battle,”  Norbert Reithofer , BMW’s
CEO, said in Geneva. Demand in  China  should increase by at least
10 percent, with “high single-digit” growth in  North America ,
where the Munich-based company may add extra capacity, he added,
with  Mexico  “always a place to look at.”  Forced to Blink  Automakers are struggling to make a profit in Europe as
overcapacity, which executives estimate at around 20 percent,
forces them to increase incentives and lower prices. Fiat and GM
are the only companies to have shut European plants in recent
years amid political pressure and union opposition to closures.  “The European financial crisis is having an enormous
impact on the  auto industry  and -- once again -- is shining a
light on the serious problem of manufacturing overcapacity,”
Michelle Krebs, a senior industry analyst with Edmunds.com, said
from Geneva. “The current financial crisis may force someone to
blink, and the unions and governments to get on board.”  The GM-Peugeot alliance will jointly develop and build
vehicles and combine purchasing operations, though the two have
yet to say whether it will result in job reductions or factories
closing. Peugeot will sell shares in a 1 billion-euro (1.32
billion) capital increase at a 42 percent discount, it said
today, with the money directed at “strategic projects with GM.”  French Labor Minister Xavier Bertrand warned Peugeot Chief
Executive Officer Philippe Varin last month against cutting jobs
as a result of the GM deal. President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who’s
running for re-election this year, summoned Varin in November to
ask him to reconsider plans to cut as many as 6,800 posts,
including temporary staff employed by partners.  Consolidation Needed  “The alliance would help the market if it led to capacity
reductions, but I don’t understand that to be part of the
agreement,” Daimler CEO  Dieter Zetsche  said in Geneva. “The two
companies clearly think they have a better chance together.”  Stuttgart-based Daimler doesn’t itself regard new
partnerships as a priority, Zetsche said today.  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380)  has no plans to set up a strategic alliance in Europe, Allan
Rushforth, the South Korean carmaker’s chief operating officer
for the region, said in an interview at the motor show.  At Fiat, Marchionne has said repeatedly that the European
market needs consolidation to address overcapacity. While the
Turin-based company regards Suzuki and Mazda as “complementary”
to its activities, it’s talking with every potential partner and
hasn’t been “pushed aside” by the GM-Peugeot deal, being
“technically” able to make deals with both carmakers, he said.  Marchionne also said Fiat could potentially move its
headquarters to the U.S., though no decision has been taken.  No Worse  The down market has helped regional No. 1  Volkswagen AG (VOW3) 
increase its dominance. The maker of VW, Audi, Skoda and Seat
vehicles raised its share of sales to 23.3 percent from 21.3
percent last year, according to industry figures.  “If GM and PSA believe that they have a better chance
together, it shows that VW was right” to seek scale advantages,
CEO  Martin Winterkorn  said. “It confirms our philosophy.”  Still, the European slide isn’t any worse than expected,
according to Marchionne, and Daimler’s Zetsche said the market
is likely to bottom out this quarter and to begin improving
after that. There is now a lower risk of a “disruptive” crisis
stemming from the sovereign-debt situation, he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Geneva via the Berlin newsroom at 
2499 or  creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Geneva via the newsroom in Southfield,
Michigan, at   ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Geneva via the Stockholm newsroom at 
0714 or  okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  