-- Automated Systems Find Flaws With Implanted Devices, Researchers Say
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-06T21:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/automated-systems-find-flaws-with-implanted-devices-researchers-say.html
Automated systems that comb through
hospital databases of information on devices like implanted
defibrillators and pacemakers find safety problems years before
current approaches identify deadly defects, researchers said.  Investigators compiled information on 2,710 patients who
had defibrillators connected to the heart with  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s
Sprint Fidelis lead or the company’s Quattro Secure leads
between November 2001 and December 2008. Minneapolis-based
Medtronic halted sales of Sprint Fidelis in 2007 because of the
device’s potential to fracture and its ties to several deaths.  The automated safety review program from closely held
Coping Systems Inc. in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , would have
triggered an alert for Fidelis just 13 months after the first
lead was implanted and two years before it was pulled from the
market, the study found.  “If the American public and patients knew how little their
doctors and the FDA knew about the performance of these devices,
they would be shocked,” said lead researcher Robert Hauser, a
cardiologist at the Minneapolis Heart Institute. “The companies
should use this software because it turns up problems early and
it’s good for their business, not to mention patients.”  The current safety system relies on doctors and companies
to spot malfunctions and report them to the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration . Delays in reporting to the FDA can hold up
findings on device flaws.  New Study Planned  Hauser plans to start a study in June on  St. Jude Medical
Inc. (STJ) ’s Durata lead, he said in a telephone interview. The  St.
Paul , Minnesota-based company stopped selling an older lead
known as Riata in December 2010 and recalled it a year later
because it can break through the insulated coating. There are no
reports of similar problems with the Durata lead, and Hauser
said the surveillance could continue for years.  Medtronic has seen the study and finds the results
interesting, said Christopher Garland, a company spokesman, in
an email.  “Device safety and reliability are top priorities for
Medtronic, so anything that can further those priorities is of
interest,” he said.  Amy Jo Meyer, a spokeswoman for St. Jude, declined to
comment on the study.  The research, published in the journal Circulation:
Cardiovascular Quality and Outcomes, was funded by the
Minneapolis Heart Institute Foundation and Abbott Northwestern
Hospital Foundation. The researchers used databases from the
Minneapolis Heart Institute, the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,
 Minnesota , and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in  Boston .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  