-- Tax Hunt Pushes Global Rich to Offshore Trusts for U.S. Children
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-03-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/tax-hunt-pushes-global-wealthy-into-offshore-trusts-for-children-in-u-s-.html
Debra Treyz said she may save one
family millions in taxes on assets the Hong Kong-based parents
are leaving to their U.S. children.  Treyz, managing director of global wealth advisory for
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s private bank in New York, is helping her
clients maximize a transfer of $40 million by setting up an
offshore trust that will convert to a U.S. vehicle once they
die. That may ensure the money won’t be subject to U.S. estate
taxes when their children in the U.S. die.  Multinational families increasingly are turning to high-end
estate and tax planners to reduce tax bills when they shift
money to children living in the U.S., whether or not their kids
are U.S. citizens. They’re doing so as countries step up
information sharing in an effort to flush out tax dodgers,
including a new round of a voluntary disclosure program by the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service that brought in more than
$4.4 billion from American taxpayers hiding assets offshore.  “Over the past 10 years there’s been an explosion” in the
number of clients seeking advice on cross-border tax issues,
Treyz said. “The minute you get these multijurisdictional
families, you’re really playing three-dimensional chess.”  The dollars at stake are large. Treyz said the trust she’s
working on could be worth as much as $137 million by the time it
reaches her clients’ grandchildren, assuming the children don’t
need to take out any money.  Exponential Growth  Global wealth is increasing. There were 3.3 million high-
net-worth individuals in the Asia-Pacific region in 2010, an
increase of about 10 percent from 2009, and 10.9 million
worldwide, according to the 2011 World Wealth Report by
 Capgemini SA (CAP)  and Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management, which
defined such individuals as those with at least $1 million in
investable assets.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s private bank this year formed a group of
wealth planners to focus on the issues of multinational clients,
said Art Giacosa, head of cross border advisory services for
Citi Trust  North America .  “The number of clients has grown exponentially,” Giacosa
said.  Property located in the U.S. and held by foreigners,
including real estate, art, jewelry and stock in U.S. companies,
is generally taxable at death under U.S. estate tax law, said
James Marion, national fiduciary advisor executive for U.S.
Trust, the private wealth management unit of Charlotte, North
Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp.   People who aren’t U.S. citizens or residents generally have
an estate-tax exemption of just $60,000, he said. U.S. citizens
currently have about a $5 million exemption or $10 million for a
married couple through 2012.  Gift Rules  Certain foreign trusts reported about $2.9 billion in
distributions to U.S. persons in 2006, the most recent year for
which  data  is available, compared with $311 million in 2002,
according to the IRS.  A related issue is gift taxes. Foreigners generally may
give unlimited sums to U.S. taxpayers without triggering U.S.
gift taxes as long as they don’t give physical property that’s
in the U.S., such as real estate or art, yet such gifts may
ultimately trigger estate-tax levies for the recipients. U.S.
taxpayers declared about $2.9 billion in gifts from foreigners
and foreign corporations in 2006, compared with about
$2.3 billion in 2002, according to the IRS.  It’s unclear whether the IRS considers cash in U.S. bank
accounts to be U.S. property, so when giving cash to U.S.
children foreign parents may want to make transfers from their
non-U.S. bank account to the child’s non-U.S. bank account, said
Leigh-Alexandra Basha, partner with Holland & Knight LLP in
Tysons Corner, Virginia.  Common Pitfall  Whether the IRS would consider transfers of cash to be a
gift for tax purposes would depend on the facts of a particular
instance, said Sara Eguren, an IRS spokeswoman.  A common pitfall occurs when parents make expensive gifts
to U.S. children when they come to visit, said Ed Mooney, wealth
strategist for New York-based  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.   “They go into  Tiffany (TIF) ’s or Cartier and surprise their
child with a gift that’s of significant value,” Mooney said.  There’s no lifetime gift-tax exclusion for foreigners
making gifts of U.S.-based property, which means those giving
property may owe taxes on amounts greater than $13,000, at a
rate of as much as 35 percent. The lifetime gift-tax exclusion
for U.S. citizens is currently about $5 million per individual
through 2012.  One strategy for minimizing taxes on gifts of real estate
may be to place the property into an offshore company, with
family members owning the interests in the offshore company,
Marion said. Gifted interest in the company from parents to
children may be considered an intangible and so generally isn’t
considered taxable, he said.  Foreign Corporations  It may cost from about $5,000 to “tens of thousands of
dollars” to set up one or more foreign corporations, depending
on fees of service providers and the complexity involved, said
Jeffrey Kolodny, a member and an attorney in the private client
services group at Cozen O’Connor in  New York .  International buyers from about 70 different countries
purchased $82 billion in residential real estate in the U.S. in
the year through March 2011, compared with purchases of
$66 billion by buyers from 53 countries the year before,
according to the  National Association of Realtors . The figures
include non-resident foreigners and recent immigrants.  Such purchases may have unforeseen estate-tax consequences
for those who don’t live in the U.S., said Gideon Rothschild, a
partner with Moses & Singer LLP in New York.  Writing Big Checks  “They’ll see a broker, buy an apartment here, and the
broker doesn’t know the first thing about tax issues,”
Rothschild said. While the owner is alive planners generally may
be able to transfer the interests to a more tax-efficient
structure such as an offshore company. If the buyer has died,
“there aren’t too many options at that point other than to
write out a big check.”  Some countries, including  France , the United Kingdom and
 Japan , have tax treaties with the U.S. that may provide credits
to avoid double taxation on U.S. assets at death, Kolodny said.
 Hong Kong  and  Singapore  don’t have tax treaties with the U.S.,
said G. Warren Whitaker, a partner with Day Pitney LLP in New
York. Residents of those countries may consider holding U.S.
stocks through a foreign corporation, he said.  Plan Ahead  Failing to plan ahead may come with high costs for those
leaving the U.S. tax system as well, Basha said. The U.S. may
impose a so-called exit tax on those giving up residency or
citizenship, if they have a net worth of $2 million or more or
paid an average of $151,000 or greater annually in net income
taxes over previous five years, for those expatriating in 2012.  One former  World Bank  employee who worked with Basha was
moving from the U.S. back to  Europe  upon retiring. The woman had
already given up her U.S. green card before consulting with
Basha, which triggered U.S. exit taxes of about $500,000 on the
value of her total future pension payments from the World Bank.
She declined to name the client citing privacy concerns.  Some foreigners who formerly might have ignored U.S. tax
rules have been forced to reconsider, Whitaker said.  “In the old days people moved to the U.S. and some of them
just wouldn’t comply,” he said. “They’d count on hiding money
and not reporting it, and those people are having a lot of
difficulties now as the world shrinks and information-exchange
increases.”  Disclosing Gifts  By June 2013 foreign financial institutions must enter into
agreements with the IRS to disclose information about accounts
held by U.S. taxpayers, under the  Foreign Account Tax Compliance
Act .  U.S. recipients of gifts from foreigners or distributions
from foreign trusts should make sure they comply with relevant
IRS reporting requirements, said Suzanne Shier, tax strategist
for Chicago-based  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  U.S. taxpayers generally
are required to disclose to the IRS any offshore bank or
brokerage accounts if the total in those accounts is more than
$10,000. They also must generally  disclose  any gifts from
foreign persons or foreign estates of more than $100,000.  The IRS in January said it had collected more than
$4.4 billion in the two voluntary disclosure programs it had
offered U.S. taxpayers hiding assets offshore to become current
on their taxes, and said it would reopen the program for an
indefinite period, according to a  statement . Participants
generally pay a penalty of 27.5 percent of the highest balance
they held offshore in the previous eight tax years.  Consider Consequences  The most important step is for wealthy foreign families to
consider tax consequences before they step on U.S. shores,
Whitaker said.  “The biggest mistake is they come here with their money
and six months later they ask me, ‘What can I do?’” he said.  One client was who was moving from  Switzerland  to the U.S.
was able to lower his tax exposure by stopping in Ireland before
he entered the U.S., in order to establish a higher cost basis
on certain investments and to place some assets into trusts,
Treyz said.  Families relocating to the U.S. for a limited period of
time, such as for a five-year work assignment, could benefit by
placing assets into private-placement  life insurance , which is a
way of holding mutual funds and alternative assets such as  hedge
funds  within a tax-deferred life-insurance wrapper, Rothschild
said. The assets may grow tax-deferred while the family resides
in the U.S. and the policy may be terminated after they leave
and are no longer subject to the U.S. income taxes, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 