-- Bancolombia Considers Refinancing Amid Acquisition Search
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-03-06T21:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/bancolombia-considers-refinancing-amid-acquisition-search.html
Bancolombia SA (BCOLO) , Colombia’s biggest
lender, is considering refinancing its debt, including through
an exchange, after selling a record $2.7 billion of bonds last
year, Chief Executive Officer Carlos Raul Yepes said.  The transactions would be a “financial engineering” of
debt, Yepes, 48, said. Yields on Bancolombia’s dollar bonds due
2021 have fallen 38 basis points, or 0.38 percentage point, in
the past month to 5.29 percent, matching a decline by Latin
American bank debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
Credit Suisse Group AG.  The bond offerings and this year’s sale of $941 million in
shares have positioned the bank for potential acquisitions as
crisis-hit European and U.S. banks shed assets in  Latin America ,
Yepes said. The bank is weighing acquisitions in  Chile ,  Peru ,
 Mexico , Central America and the Caribbean, he said.  “We’ve been offered everything but there are few good
opportunities,” Yepes said in an interview at the bank’s
headquarters in Medellin yesterday. “We are analyzing the
financial map to be ready to jump at the right opportunity.”  He declined to comment further on takeover targets beyond
geographical areas the bank is searching in.  Bancolombia’s shares have fallen 5.1 percent this year, the
fourth-worst performance on  Colombia ’s benchmark IGBC Index,
which has surged 17 percent after last year’s 18 percent slump.
 Grupo de Inversiones Suramericana SA , Bancolombia’s parent, has
gained 0.6 percent in 2012 after a 17 percent loss last year.  Colombia’s Keiretsus  Colombian companies led by  Grupo Empresarial Antioqueno 
have been taking advantage of the European debt crisis and
global economic slowdown to expand abroad at lower costs.  The biggest members of Antioqueno --modeled on  Japan ’s so-
called keiretsus in which companies have business relationships
and own shares in each other-- have made purchases of about $6
billion in the past two years to expand abroad. Suramericana
closed the purchase of Latin American assets from  ING Groep NV (INGA) 
for $3.6 billion in December. Bancolombia contributed $150
million as a co-investor in the purchase.  “Bancolombia was the first of the Colombian banks to
expand abroad but now there’s strategic pressure to grow in
Latin America,” said David Pelaez, Medellin-based analyst at
brokerage Bolsa y Renta. “Bancolombia bought the biggest player
in El Salvador and may be holding out for a big fish.”  Panama License  Bancolombia reported 2011 profit of 1.7 trillion pesos, a
16 percent increase from the year before, fueled in part by the
sale of AFP Crecer, a pension fund manager in El Salvador.
Profit in Panama increased 35 percent to 119 billion pesos while
profit in El Salvador, where it owns the country’s biggest bank,
 Banagricola SA (BAGR) , rose 46 percent to 110 billion pesos.  Bancolombia expects Panama to grant it a banking license as
soon as this month so it can receive deposits amid growing
competition from Colombian peers in Central America, Yepes said.  Grupo Aval Acciones y Valores SA , Colombia’s biggest
banking group by assets, bought  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s BAC
Credomatic, Central America’s second-largest bank, for $1.9
billion in 2010. This year,  Banco Davivienda SA (PFDAVVND) , Colombia’s
third-biggest bank, agreed to buy HSBC Holdings Plc’s operations
in  Costa Rica , El Salvador and Honduras for $801 million.  Competition Stiffens  Bancolombia is also facing growing domestic competition
from foreign banks lured by the country’s fastest growth rate
since 2006. Chile’s  Corpbanca (CORPBANC)  and Canada’s  Bank of Nova Scotia 
agreed to buy stakes in Colombian banks last year while  Brazil ’s
 Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB) , Chile’s  SACI Falabella (FALAB)  and Ecuador’s
 Banco del Pichincha CA  set up branches in the country.  Bancolombia raised $941 million in share sales this year,
money that Yepes said he will use to expand lending and fund
potential acquisitions. A week after Bancolombia sold $1 billion
of 10-year bonds in May,  Moody’s Investors Service (MCO)  raised the
bank’s foreign debt rating to Baa3, the lowest investment-grade
level, matching an increase it gave to the Colombian government.  Yepes said the bank has a “full tank” after last year’s
sales and will wait until Colombia’s securities regulator
publishes new regulations on bank capital adequacy as soon as
this month before deciding whether to sell more bonds this year.  Colombia’s government forecasts economic growth of as much
6 percent this year, in line with an estimate for last year.
Gross domestic product grew 7.7 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier.  The central bank raised the benchmark lending rate to 5.25
percent on Feb. 24, the second straight monthly increase, to
cool the expansion and keep inflation in check.  Bancolombia expects it will see “more moderate” loan
growth of 15 percent to 20 percent in 2012, compared with 27
percent last year, Yepes said. He said he expects the central
bank to lift the benchmark rate to 5.75 percent by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  