-- Banker Bonus Limits Sought by Lawmakers in EU’s Basel Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-06T13:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/banker-bonus-limits-sought-by-lawmakers-in-eu-s-capital-proposal.html
European Union lawmakers may
introduce tougher curbs on  banker  pay, including a limit on the
gap between lenders’ highest and lowest salaries, as part of an
overhaul of financial regulation later this year.  Members of the European Parliament’s Socialist and Green
parties have proposed that a draft EU law to bolster bank
capital should include new pay rules, as well as stricter curbs
on risk taking, according to two members of the institution’s
financial affairs committee.  “Wrong incentives were part of the banking culture that
caused the crisis,” said Udo Bullmann, a German lawmaker
following the proposed law for the parliament’s Socialist group.
“I expect there will be quite a lot of sympathy among different
party groups” for further rules on pay.  Labor leaders and politicians have criticized bank-bonus
awards as out of touch with economic reality.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  this
year waived his 963,000-pound ($1.5 million) bonus after the
U.K.’s opposition  Labour Party  said it would ask the national
Parliament to vote on the award at the bailed-out lender.  Michel Barnier , the region’s financial services chief, has
said he is considering proposing extra rules on bonuses in
response to payouts that go against “all reason, common sense
and morality,” including restrictions on the difference between
a lender’s maximum and minimum pay. Some lawmakers would
like to move faster by including the measures in the draft bank-
capital law, which is scheduled to come into effect on Jan. 1,
2013.  Maximum Ratio  “It would be impossible to implement a regulation
prescribing a maximum ratio of highest-paid to lowest-paid
employee salaries within an organization,” Richard Portes,
professor of economics at  London Business School , said in an e-
mailed statement. “Do you include cleaners? Part-time workers?
How do you value bonuses paid in shares?”  It would be “much better to use competition policy and
stricter  capital ratios  to drive down bank rates of return and
force cuts in overall compensation ratios, which would bring
down top salaries,” Portes said.  Barnier presented the draft law last year to implement an
overhaul of bank rules agreed on by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision . National governments and the EU Parliament
lawmakers must agree on the final form of the measures before
they can enter into force. The parliament’s financial affairs
committee is scheduled to vote on the rules by May.  Pay Limit  Bullmann and Philippe Lamberts, a Belgian lawmaker who is
following the law for parliament’s Greens, will seek to limit
the ratio between the lowest and highest paid personnel in a
bank.  Lawmakers “have been adamant” that further curbs on
remuneration are needed, Lamberts said in an interview.  “It is hard to see how imposing a maximum ratio would work
in practice, particularly as so much of bank remuneration is
performance linked,” Sylvie Watts, a lawyer at Allen & Overy
LLP, said in an e-mail. The measure “could also have the effect
of increasing the overall pay levels at the lower end of the pay
scale,” she said.  The EU adopted pay rules for the financial industry in 2010
that included limiting immediate cash payouts as a proportion of
total bonus awards.  Lowest Pay  “The U.K. government is considering imposing a requirement
on U.K. companies to disclose the highest and lowest pay, but
that goes to transparency rather than regulating what companies
are allowed to pay their people,” Watts said.  Lawmakers are also seeking a range of other changes to the
draft capital rules. Members of the Socialist, Green, and
Conservative groups have called for changes to give national
regulators greater freedom to impose stricter capital rules on
their banks than required by EU law.  The EU’s “implementation of tighter global banking
standards must not be pegged back to the pace of the slowest
countries,” Vicky Ford, a U.K. lawmaker following the draft law
for the parliament’s Conservative group, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  The law should also include a requirement for lenders to
back long term loans with stable sources of funds, Bullmann
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  