-- Barclays Joins JPMorgan in Catching Up to Goldman in Commodities Trading
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-06T23:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/barclays-jpmorgan-win-commodity-trading-business-survey-finds.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  have become top players in global commodity derivatives
trading, catching up with long-time leaders  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   The two banks tied Goldman Sachs and surpassed Morgan
Stanley in the share of clients who use them for over-the-
counter energy derivative trades, a Greenwich Associates survey
of corporate treasury officials shows. In metals derivatives,
JPMorgan dominated with a 60 percent market penetration.  “JPMorgan and Barclays, if you think about the longer-term
trend, have gotten to the point where they’re now on a level
footing with Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs,” Andrew Awad, a
Greenwich Associates consultant who helped write a report on the
findings, said yesterday in a phone interview.  JPMorgan’s global commodities business, led by Blythe Masters in New York, and the Barclays’s unit run by Roger Jones
in London, have been expanding through acquisitions and hiring.
In 2010, JPMorgan bought assets from RBS Sempra, a joint venture
of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and Sempra Energy, and Barclays
hired seven salespeople from BP Plc to boost its presence in
physical oil and natural gas markets in  North America .  In energy derivatives, Barclays, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan
each had 41 percent market penetration, and Morgan Stanley had
37 percent, according to the survey. Among executives who use
derivatives to hedge metals prices, 35 percent chose Barclays,
22 percent used Morgan Stanley and 21 percent did business with
Goldman Sachs. Some companies use multiple investment banks for
commodities derivatives trading.  Deepest Relationships  A 2009 Greenwich Associates survey of corporate executives,
which didn’t provide a breakdown by type of commodity, found
that 48 percent used Goldman Sachs and 43 percent did business
with Morgan Stanley, compared with 34 percent for JPMorgan and
31 percent for Barclays.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank, continues to
have the deepest relationships with commodity investors, the
survey found. Sixty-three percent of commodity investors said
they do business with the firm, followed by 55 percent for
Barclays and 51 percent for JPMorgan. Morgan Stanley, whose
commodities business is led by Colin Bryce in  London  and Simon Greenshields in Purchase, New York, had 39 percent.  U.S. banks don’t disclose commodities-trading revenue,
instead combining the business with fixed-income and currency
trading in a single line in company reports. Some firms’
quarterly  filings  break out gains and losses from principal
transactions and market-making by product type, which exclude
interest income and interest expense. JPMorgan, the biggest U.S.
bank by assets, earned $2.82 billion from commodities in 2011
and Goldman Sachs made $1.59 billion, those disclosures showed.  Commodity Investors  Isabelle Ealet, who ran Goldman Sachs’s commodities
business since 2007, was promoted at the end of 2011 to become
one of three co-heads of global sales and trading. Commodities
trading at Goldman Sachs is led by Gregory A. Agran in  New York 
and Magid N. Shenouda in London, while the global commodity
sales effort is supervised by London-based L. Peter O’Hagan.  JPMorgan was ranked first in the U.S. for both market share
and service quality by corporate treasury officials who use
energy derivatives, according to the survey.  Although European energy companies said they do more
business with London-based Barclays than its rivals, they
selected Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, both based in New
York, as the top banks for service quality.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment on the survey results, as did Mary Claire Delaney at
Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan’s  Jennifer Zuccarelli  and Seth Martin
at Barclays.  Quality of Service  Asian energy companies were most impressed with the quality
of service from  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , a London-based bank that
does most of its business in  Asia , even as Morgan Stanley,
Goldman Sachs and New York-based JPMorgan had the biggest market
penetration, according to the survey. The number of corporate
clients in Asia who said they trade energy derivatives with
 Standard Chartered  doubled from 2010 to 2011, Awad said.  “It’s pretty amazing for them, actually,” Awad said of
Standard Chartered’s performance. “They had massive, massive
gains in Asia both in terms of footprint and in terms of the
feedback we get for them on a quality basis.”  Greenwich Associates conducted the survey between September
and November and released it yesterday. The Stamford,
Connecticut-based firm said it interviewed 268 treasury
officials at companies that hedge exposure to energy derivatives
using over-the-counter derivatives and 97 that hedge metals
exposure. It also interviewed 71 commodities investors that use
over-the-counter derivatives, including pension funds,  hedge
funds  and banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 