-- Baucus Calls for Scrutiny of Business Tax Depreciation Rules
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-03-06T17:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/baucus-calls-for-scrutiny-of-generous-tax-depreciation-rules.html
Congress should consider changing
“generous” depreciation rules for corporate  capital
investment , Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  said.  Tax breaks for capital investment, including accelerated
depreciation, are among the most expensive targeted provisions
in the tax code. That makes them a target as lawmakers consider
ways to reduce the corporate  tax rate  without increasing the
 budget deficit . Companies can deduct many capital expenses for
tax purposes faster than they can on their financial statements.  “As we work to make our corporate tax rate more
competitive, we must carefully examine changes to our current
depreciation system and strike the right balance,” the Montana
Democrat said today during a hearing by his committee that
examined incentives for capital investment and manufacturing.  In its framework for revising the U.S. corporate tax
system, the Obama administration said Congress should consider
changing depreciation rules as part of a plan to remove breaks
and reduce the corporate rate from 35 percent to 28 percent.  The challenge for lawmakers, witnesses at the hearing said,
is to figure out which incentives to retain in the  tax code .  Baucus said he intends to pursue a tax overhaul.  ‘Have to Try’  “It’s going to be politically difficult this year, but
nevertheless, we have to try,” he said.  The administration has proposed keeping a lower corporate
tax rate of 25 percent for manufacturers and a credit for
corporate research.  “Not having any specific investment incentives would be a
shame,” said Ike Brannon, director of economic policy and
congressional relations at the American Action Forum, a group
that supports smaller government.  If anything, investment incentives should be enhanced,
because of what countries such as the U.K. are doing to
encourage innovation, said Robert Atkinson, president of the
Information Technology and Innovation Foundation. The research
group’s board includes executives from companies such as
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and International Business Machines Corp.  “These countries are putting in place all of these
specific incentives, and I would argue we have to catch up,”
Atkinson said.  Baucus said he sympathizes with the argument that the tax
code should be simpler. Figuring out how to do that, he said, is
what’s difficult.  “Where do we draw the line here?” he asked. “How much to
lower rates, how much to broaden the base?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  