-- BG Group Is Said to Seek Investors for Australia’s QGC Natural Gas Project
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-03-06T16:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/bg-group-is-said-to-seek-investors-for-australia-s-qgc-natural-gas-project.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-
largest oil and natural gas producer, is seeking investors for
its Australian gas project, said three people with knowledge of
the matter.  The company’s options include selling a stake of about 20
percent in Australian unit QGC Pty Ltd. or accepting an
investment in its liquefied natural gas plant in the country,
said the people, declining to be identified as the process is
private. A deal may be valued at $1.5 billion to $2 billion, one
of the people said. BG’s advisers have approached potential
buyers in  China  and  Japan , the person said.  BG said Feb. 9 it will sell $5 billion of assets in the
next two years to maintain investment and production growth at
projects in Brazil, the North Sea and Australia. The Reading,
U.K.-based company plans to invest $22 billion in projects this
year and next.  “We keep all assets in our global portfolio under review
and all options are open,” said  Neil Burrows , a spokesman for
BG, in an interview. He declined to comment on the plan to seek
investors for BG’s Australian assets.  BG plans to build two processing units at its plant near
Curtis Island in Queensland state, with a combined capacity of
8.5 million metric tons of LNG a year.  The company said in November it will proceed with the $15
billion LNG venture, which is being built by its Australian unit
and will convert coal-seam gas to LNG for shipment to overseas
markets. China National Offshore Oil Corp. will have a 10
percent stake in the first LNG processing unit, while Tokyo Gas
Co. will have a 2.5 percent interest in the second one, BG said
in November.  LNG Competition  BG,  Chevron Corp., (CVX)  Royal Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips
are among energy companies investing about A$200 billion ($214
billion) in LNG projects in Australia to tap Asian demand for
cleaner-burning fuel, according to data from the Australian
Petroleum Production & Exploration Association.  Australian gas producer Santos Ltd. plans to produce 7.2
million tons of LNG a year from two units at its venture in
Gladstone, a coastal town more than 300 kilometers north of
Brisbane.  BG’s Curtis Island plant will be built over the next four
years and is due to start fuel shipments in 2014, the company
said Nov. 1. It has reached agreements to sell LNG to customers
in China, Japan,  Singapore  and  Chile  and will also provide gas
to markets in eastern Australia.  Last month, BG raised its gas resource estimate in
Australia to 25 trillion cubic feet, from an earlier forecast of
21 trillion.  BG shares slipped 2.9 percent to 1472 pence ($23.25) in
afternoon trading in  London  on Tuesday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  