-- Billionaires Buy Gasoline Ships as Fuel Cargoes Expand: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-03-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/billionaires-buying-gasoline-tankers-as-fuel-demand-accelerates-freight.html
The richest investors in shipping
are buying gasoline tankers, anticipating that fuel demand will
expand faster than the fleet for the first time in nine years.  Global shipments will jump 4.3 percent in 2012 as vessel
capacity gains 3.7 percent, according to London-based  Clarkson
Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker. Daily rates for Medium-
Range tankers, each hauling enough fuel to fill about 780,000
cars, will rise 19 percent to an average of $14,844 this year,
the median of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.
That’s more than the $10,999 anticipated in forward freight
agreements, traded by brokers and used to bet on future rates.  John Fredriksen , whose publicly traded assets are valued at
$9.27 billion, ordered as many as 10 of the tankers last month.
 Wilbur Ross , whose company manages about $10 billion of assets,
was part of a group buying 30 vessels in September. Global
refineries are shifting to India and  China  from  Europe  and the
U.S., increasing delivery distances and tying up vessels for
longer, effectively boosting demand for shipping.  “This is smart money that has historically done well
investing at the right time of the cycle,” said Jonathan Chappell, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in New York whose
recommendations on the shares of shipping companies returned 9.8
percent in the past three months. “Those purchases by Ross and
John Fredriksen confirm that the fundamentals appear most
attractive for product tankers.”  Crude Carriers  MR tanker rates averaged $12,500 last year, 29 percent more
than in 2010, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  That’s different from most of the rest of the shipping
industry. Earnings for very large crude carriers, about eight
times bigger than MRs, averaged $22,137 in 2011, down from
$42,616 in 2010, Clarkson data show. Capesizes, the biggest coal
carriers, got an average of $15,639, compared with $33,298 a
year earlier, according to the London-based  Baltic Exchange ,
which publishes costs along more than 50 maritime routes.  Fredriksen, 67, ordered six MR tankers valued at $210
million last month from Changwon, South Korea-based STX Offshore
& Shipbuilding Co. and took an option for four more. Ross
invested about $300 million in Diamond S Shipping of Greenwich,
 Connecticut , which bought vessels from Cido Tanker Holding Co.
It was the 74-year-old’s first investment in shipping.  U.S. seaborne imports of refined products will rise about 9
percent to 2 million barrels a day this year, helping to
compensate for projected declines across Europe, led by a 5
percent drop in  Germany , according to Clarkson. China will
become a net exporter by 2015 and  India , which already sells
more than it buys, will be refining 70 percent more oil products
by 2016, the shipbroker estimates.  Seaborne Gasoline  The U.S. exported 60,385 barrels a day more refined
products than it imported in 2011, the first net sales since at
least 2001, Energy Department data show. Five years earlier, net
imports averaged 2.3 million barrels a day.  While demand for seaborne gasoline, diesel and other
products is expanding to a record, it still won’t be enough to
eliminate the glut of ships. Cargoes of refined products that
will reach 99.9 million deadweight tons will be met with vessel
supply of 114.2 million, Clarkson’s forecasts show. Deadweight
tonnage is a measure of carrying capacity, and the estimates
include all types of product tankers.  Shipping companies will still lose money.  Scorpio (STNG)  Tankers
Inc., the owner of 12 products vessels, will narrow its net loss
to $13.6 million this year from $82.7 million in 2011, the mean
of four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Torm A/S (TORM) , the largest publicly traded owner of the vessels,
will report a loss of $166 million, down from $453 million,
seven predictions show. Shares of the Hellerup, Denmark-based
company, on track to fall for a sixth year in 2012, will plunge
73 percent to 0.81 krone in the next 12 months, according to the
average of five estimates. Torm deferred debt repayments four
times since December.  Automobile Association  Rising gasoline prices may curb consumption. The pump price
of regular gasoline in the U.S. rose to $3.767 a gallon on March
4, compared with $3.206 on Dec. 20, data from the American
Automobile Association show. A liter (0.26 gallon) of gasoline
averaged about 1.61 euros ($2.13) across the 27-nation European
Union last week, from 1.48 euros in the first week of December,
according to data from the European Commission.  Oil prices  are rising because of mounting international
tension over  Iran , which the U.S. and EU say is developing
nuclear weapons. Sanctions on Iranian crude are curbing trade
with the second-biggest member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, and the nation has threatened to disrupt
shipping through the  Strait of Hormuz  in the  Persian Gulf , the
transit point for about 20 percent of the world’s crude.  East Coast  The narrowing surplus capacity in product tankers compares
with growing gluts elsewhere. The VLCC fleet will expand 6.3
percent this year as demand swells by 3.2 percent, Clarkson
estimates. The combined fleet of carriers hauling coal, iron ore
and grain will gain 13 percent as the number of cargoes advances
4 percent.  Product tankers are traveling farther because new refinery
capacity is being built in  Asia , increasing ship owners’ returns
from each cargo. European and U.S. East Coast refineries are
scheduled to cut about 12 percent of their output by the middle
of the year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. They are losing
money because they use crude oil priced off Brent, currently
trading at a 16 percent premium to the West Texas Intermediate
benchmark used by Midwest and Gulf Coast refineries.  India is the largest Asian supplier of refined products to
the U.S., and monthly deliveries rose 26 percent to a record 1.9
million barrels last year, Department of Energy data show. India
is more than twice as far from  New York  as Rotterdam.  Scorpio Stock  While Monaco-based Scorpio is expected to report a loss
this year, its shares will advance 24 percent to $7.92 in the
next 12 months, the average of six analyst estimates shows.
Seven of eight analysts covering the company and tracked by
Bloomberg recommend buying the shares.  “The two points on the graph are crossing,” said Charles
Mantell, the analyst in  London  who compiles Clarkson’s product-
tanker forecasts. “It’s a combination of change in supply and
change in demand. Growth in Asia and America will tip into
positive. It’s far better than the crude market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  