-- Bloomberg Billionaires Index: Top 20 Daily Ranking
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-03-06T16:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/bloomberg-billionaires-index-top-20-daily-ranking-table-.html
Following are the results
of the latest Bloomberg Billionaires Index ranking the 
world’s 20 wealthiest individuals.  NOTE: Methodology
The Bloomberg Billionaires Index is a daily ranking of the world’s 20 richest 
people. In calculating net worth, we strive to provide the most transparent 
estimates available. Each Bloomberg Billionaire profile contains a detailed 
analysis of how that person’s fortune has been tallied.  The index is a dynamic measure of the world’s wealthy based on changes in 
markets, the economy and Bloomberg reporting. Each net worth figure is 
updated every business day at 5:30 p.m. New York time. Stakes in publicly 
traded companies are valued using the share’s most recent closing price. 
Valuations are converted to U.S. dollars at current exchange rates.   Private companies are valued in several ways, such as by comparing the 
enterprise values or price-to-earnings ratios of similar public companies. 
The criteria used depends on the firm’s industry and size. Estimates of 
private company debt are based on comparable peers.  When ownership of private assets cannot be verified, they aren’t included 
in the calculations. The specific valuation methodology for each private 
company is included in the net worth analysis section of a billionaire’s 
profile. (The full profile is available only to Bloomberg Professional 
subscribers.)  A liquidity discount of 5 percent is applied to most private companies 
where assets may be hard to sell. We have noted when a different percentage 
has been used. No liquidity discounts were used in calculating values of 
public stakes. In some instances, we also apply a country risk discount 
based on a person’s concentration of assets and ease of liquidating them 
in a given geography. A country’s risk is assessed based on  Standard & Poor’s  
sovereign debt ratings.  Net worth estimates include dividend income paid and proceeds from the sale 
of public and private shares. In cases where the majority of a fortune is 
derived from private companies, estimated dividends are calculated only if 
historical net income information is available.  We deduct taxes based on prevailing income, dividend and capital gains tax 
rates in a billionaire’s country of citizenship or residence. Taxes are 
applied at the highest rate unless there is evidence to support a lower 
percentage.  For estimates of cash and other invested assets, we have applied a hybrid 
return based on holdings in cash,  government bonds , equities and commodities.  We try to identify and confirm all potential liabilities. No assumptions 
are made about personal debt.  Family members often hold a portion of the billionaire’s assets. Such 
transfers don’t change the nature of who ultimately controls the fortune. 
As a result we operate under the rule that all billionaire fortunes are 
inherently family fortunes.  Each billionaire or his or her representative has been given an opportunity 
to respond to questions regarding the net worth estimate, including assets 
and liabilities.  Bloomberg News editorial policy is to not cover Bloomberg LP. As a result 
 Michael Bloomberg , the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, won’t 
be considered for this ranking.   Because calculating net worth requires a degree of estimation, we have 
provided bull and bear case scenarios that would make a person’s fortune 
higher or lower than our estimate. A confidence rating also is included 
on each profile.  5 Star - The majority of the individual’s fortune is held in publicly 
traded companies. The billionaire or their representatives provides insight 
on the net worth calculation.  4 Star - The majority of the individual’s fortune is held in publicly traded 
companies or private operations in a country where transparent data is 
available. The billionaire may hold shares through a holding company where 
ownership is not transparent. The billionaire or their representatives may 
provide insight on the net worth calculation.  3 Star - The majority of the individual’s fortune is held in private companies, 
or public companies based in a country where transparent information is often 
unreliable. The billionaire or their representatives won’t comment on the net 
worth calculation.  2 Star - The majority of the individual’s fortune is held in private assets. 
Often more than half of the calculation is based on an estimation of cash and 
other outside investments. The billionaire or their representatives won’t 
comment on the net worth estimate.  1 Star - The majority of the individual’s fortune is held in private assets 
where limited information is available. Often nearly all of the calculation 
is based on an estimation of cash and other investable securities. The 
billionaire or their representatives won’t comment on the net worth estimate.  SOURCE: Bloomberg  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at   atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at   mmiller144@bloomberg.net  