-- Boeing Partners With China Challenger Comac on Energy Research
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-03-06T21:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/boeing-partners-with-china-challenger-comac-on-energy-research.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  will work with  Commercial
Aircraft Corp. (CACOFZ)  of  China  on fuel-efficient technologies after
forming a partnership with a planemaker that’s mounting a
challenge in the world’s fastest-growing aviation market.  A jointly funded research center in Beijing will study ways
to pare fuel use and emissions, the companies said today in a
statement, which didn’t specify the size of the investment.
Boeing and Shanghai-based Comac also said they will have annual
leadership meetings and exchange market forecasts.  The tie-up will bolster Boeing in China and may also help
Comac develop the C919, the nation’s first large passenger jet
and a competitor for Boeing’s 737. With most fuel-efficiency
gains driven by engine makers, Boeing’s deal with Comac will
probably focus on “less-secretive ways” to boost performance,
said  Richard Aboulafia , an analyst at consultant Teal Group.  “Why not do it with someone who’s going to kick in money
and someone who’s in one of the most important markets for your
jets anyway?” said Aboulafia, who is based in Fairfax,
Virginia.  Boeing’s research deal won’t affect  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s talks
with Comac on finding shared features between the C919 and
Bombardier’s planned CSeries, said Haley Dunne, a spokeswoman
for the Montreal-based company’s aerospace unit.  Bombardier-Comac Timeline  “We’re hoping to announce a deal soon,” Dunne said. “I
can’t really give you a time on that. We are in discussions with
them and the discussions are progressing very well.”  Boeing fell 2.1 percent to $72.56 at the close in  New York 
and Bombardier tumbled 4.3 percent to C$4.05 in Toronto, joining
a retreat by North American stocks after a report showed
Europe’s economy contracted. Comac is state-owned.  China will need to buy 5,000 new planes through 2030,
according to Chicago-based Boeing. Airbus SAS, the world leader
in global jetliner sales ahead of Boeing, opened a  production
line  in the country in 2008.  The Boeing-Comac technology center “shows that two
companies in a competitive industry can partner to make progress
on important challenges that cannot be solved by one company
alone,”  Jim Albaugh , Boeing’s commercial-aircraft chief, said
in the statement. “That is good for customers and passengers,
and it’s the right thing to do.”  Comac’s C919 is due to make its maiden flight in 2014
before entering service two years later. The company’s ARJ21
regional jet is running more than four years late. Calls to
Comac’s media office went unanswered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  