-- BP Interested in Adding Refining Capacity in Asia, Conn Says
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-03-06T22:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/bp-interested-in-adding-refining-capacity-in-asia-conn-says-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/) , which announced plans to
sell two of its five U.S. refineries in 2011, is interested in
adding refining capacity in  Asia  that could be used to sell fuel
to  China .  “It would allow us to have a more integrated exposure to
the margins available in China,”  Iain Conn , head of refining
and marketing for BP, said in an interview today. “It would
give us an opportunity to participate in the Chinese fuel market
and get to understand how it works.”  Refiners in the U.S. and Europe without access to cheaper
crude produced in Canada and new U.S. fields such as North
Dakota’s Bakken shale may not survive as demand declines and
 developing countries  including China and India add refining
capacity, Conn said in an interview at CERAWeek, a Houston
conference held by IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates.  As much as 7 million barrels a day of additional refining
capacity may be cut through 2030 as plants that can’t access
cheaper crude process heavier oil will become unprofitable, Conn
said.  “There are going to be winners and losers in refining over
the next 20 years, real winners and losers, and that means some
people are going to go out of business,” he said. “How to win
in this business is all about quality, not quantity.”  Carson Refinery  BP continues to look for a buyer for its Carson, California
refinery and may put its  Texas City , Texas refinery on the
market soon, Conn said.  Before it can put the refinery up for sale, the London-
based company must finish making changes at the plant required
by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration after
a 2005 accident killed 15 workers, he said. The company said
last year that it wanted to gain $4.4 million by selling the two
plants.  BP is upgrading its U.S. refineries that would remain after
the sale in Washington, Ohio and Indiana so they can process
more Canadian crude, Conn said.  The company won’t split from its refining arm, he said.
 ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-largest U.S. oil company, plans to
spin off its refining and pipeline divisions by May 1, Chief
Executive Officer James Mulva told investors yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  