-- South Africa Willing to Reduce Planned Fuel Refinery Size By Half, BP Says
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-03-06T16:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/bp-says-more-studies-needed-before-final-decision-on-mthombo.html
South Africa  may reduce the size of
a planned new fuel refinery by half and delay construction to
ensure current producers aren’t forced to close, said Gerard Derbesy, chief executive officer of  BP (BP/)  Plc’s local unit.  “My understanding is that the problem of overcapacity is
understood,” Derbesy said in an interview. “There is no intent
to build something that will be too big. We’re more talking a
200,000 barrel-a-day refinery as opposed to 400,000 barrels.”  BP estimates only 2 million barrels a day of extra global
refinery capacity outside of  China  will be needed by 2030 as
vehicle efficiency and refinery technology improves.  “There is no urgency to rush into a big investment” in
South Africa, Derbesy said. “Anything too early and too big
will create overcapacity and will result in shutting existing
capacity, which is not what anybody wants.”  State-owned PetroSA, based in  Cape Town , began studying the
Mthombo project about five years ago as diesel and gasoline
imports rose. Demand exceeded local refinery production for the
first time in 2007. The country has six refineries, with a
combined capacity of about 692,000 barrels a day, according to
data from the  South African Petroleum Industry Association .  “The best-case scenario we see is a 200,000 barrel-a-day
refinery by 2020,” Derbesy said. The company bases its outlook
on an assumed 4.5 percent rate of economic growth a year, steady
refinery capacity elsewhere and and stable  fuel efficiency , he
said. The economy is expected to grow 2.7 percent this year,
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said at his budget Feb. 22.  PetroSA Review  PetroSA initially planned a 400,000 barrel-a-day refinery
to start in 2015. The company should finalize its business
study, including a review of the size of the project, in “the
next month or two,” spokesman Thabo Mabaso said by mobile phone
today, declining to elaborate on the capacity of the refinery.  Expanding capacity at current refineries would make more
economic sense than a new facility, and more studies are needed
before a decision is taken, Derbesy said. BP and  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  operate the Sapref refinery, the country’s largest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  