-- BPI Is Purchasing Portuguese Bills, Not Bonds, Ulrich Says
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 2012-03-06T15:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/bpi-is-purchasing-portuguese-bills-not-bonds-ulrich-says.html
Banco BPI SA (BPI) , Portugal’s fifth-
biggest bank, has been buying Portuguese treasury bills in
quantities that aren’t “very large so far,” Chief Executive
Officer Fernando Ulrich said.  The lender hasn’t been purchasing  government bonds  in the
secondary market as it already has exposure to the country’s
debt, Ulrich said today in an interview.  “I think investors that are less exposed to Portugal maybe
have more room to be more active,” he said.  Portugal has already sold 8 billion euros ($10.5 billion)
of bills this year, including 12-month securities. That’s more
than planned after the government debt agency said on Dec. 29
that the total indicative amount of bills to be sold in the
first quarter of 2012 would be as much as 6.5 billion euros. The
state approved on Feb. 9 a change to the maximum maturity
allowed for new issues of treasury bills, which now can be as
long as 18 months.  “We will definitely look at it very carefully and with
interest,” Ulrich said about possible issues of bills with
longer maturities such as 18-month securities.  Portugal’s financial-aid plan assumes the country will
regain access to medium- and long-term sovereign-debt markets by
late 2013, the  International Monetary Fund  said in December. The
government is cutting spending and raising taxes to try to curb
its debt.  Portugal’s ‘Discipline’  Portugal’s 10-year yield was at 13.9 percent at 1:24 p.m.
in  London , up from 7.48 percent a year ago. The extra yield
investors demand to own the nation’s bonds rather than  Germany ’s
widened 1.1 percentage points to 12.04 percentage points since
the  European Central Bank  announced its program of three-year
loans to banks on Dec. 8. Italy’s spread shrank 124 basis points
to 3.2 percentage points, and Spain’s narrowed 53 basis points
to 3.26.  “Quite frankly, I don’t see why we should be treated by
the market worse than Italy or  Spain ,” Ulrich said. “I hope
that with time, with Portugal keeping its discipline, the market
will finally and gradually recognize the merits of our homework
and yields will come down.”  The ECB approved on Feb. 9 the temporary use of additional
collateral in funding operations by seven euro-area members’
central banks including Portugal. It offered loans of up to
three years against eligible collateral on Feb. 28 that can be
used to finance purchases of assets including higher-yielding
government debt.  Ulrich said that BPI applied for 2 billion euros of three-
year loans from the ECB last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .
 David Tweed  in London at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  