-- Brazil’s GDP Growth of 2.7% Last Year Underperformed BRIC Peers: Economy
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-03-06T21:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/brazil-s-gdp-growth-of-2-7-last-year-underperformed-bric-peers-economy.html
Brazil ’s  economy  last year
registered its second-worst performance since 2003 as higher
borrowing costs and a currency that rallied to a 12-year high
led it to underperform emerging-market peers China and  India .  Gross domestic product expanded 2.7 percent even after
growth accelerated in the fourth quarter, the national
statistics agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro . The median
estimate of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for the
economy to grow 2.8 percent.  The GDP figure underscores central bank President Alexandre Tombini’s view that the economy is growing below capacity amid
Europe’s debt crisis, reinforcing bets that the central bank may
accelerate the pace of  interest-rate  cuts tomorrow. Growth in
Latin America’s biggest economy will gain speed and grow 4.5
percent this year, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today.  “Brazil is losing international competitiveness,” John Welch, chief strategist for  CIBC World Markets , the investment-
banking arm of  Canada ’s fifth-largest bank, said by phone from
New York. “They’re blaming all the problems on the  exchange
rate , but have ignored structural reforms.”  After a 7.5 percent expansion in 2010, Brazil’s growth last
year trailed India and China -- its peers in the BRIC group of
large  emerging markets . Growth in the $2.4 trillion economy also
lagged the International Monetary Fund’s forecast of 4.6 percent
average growth in Latin America last year, while exceeding the
1.6 percent expansion forecast for advanced nations.  Rate Outlook  Economic expansion slowed as the central bank increased
rates through July to combat inflation. Even though policy
makers have since reversed course, cutting the Selic rate by 2
percentage points to 10.5 percent to shield the country from
 Europe ’s debt troubles, Brazil’s inflation-adjusted benchmark
rate, at 4.3 percent, remains the highest among the Group of 20
richest nations.  Inflation will slow toward policy makers’ 4.5 percent
target this year, even as the economy accelerates, Central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said in a statement.  Brazil will offset the impact of slower global growth by
maintaining a weaker exchange rate, lowering  interest rates  and
taking other steps to stimulate the economy, Mantega told
reporters in Brasilia today.  The government will use an “infinite arsenal” of measures
to prevent the currency from appreciating, Mantega said.  Global stocks fell for a third day, the longest stretch in
two months and commodities retreated as concern mounted the
global economy is slowing. The  Stoxx 600 Europe Index (SXXP)  slid 2.7
percent, extending yesterday’s 0.6 percent decline.  Europe’s economy contracted 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, the European Union’s statistics office said today,
following data yesterday that showed U.S. factory orders
declined and  China ’s announcement of the lowest growth target
since 2004.  Manufacturers Hurt  Companies from steelmakers to textile firms struggled last
year as the real rallied to a 12-year high of 1.54 against the
 U.S. dollar  in July, reducing the cost of imports. Among the
hardest hit was shoemaker Vulcabras Azaleia SA, which said in
December it was closing six factories due to import competition.  The economy expanded 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter from
previous three months, when it shrank 0.1 percent, the
statistics agency said. From the year-earlier, GDP expanded 1.4
percent, with manufacturing dropping 3.1 percent and household
consumption up 2.1 percent.  “Brazil is losing its industry, the situation is the worst
in years,” said Robson Andrade, head of the Brasilia-based
National Industry Confederation. “We’re losing competitiveness
because of the strong currency and the Brazil cost,” he said in
a phone interview, referring to obstacles to productivity in
Brazil such as aging infrastructure, a tax burden of about 36
percent of GDP and a shortage of skilled labor.  Services last year expanded 2.7 percent as unemployment
fell to a record low and aggregate income rose, the IBGE said.  Stimulus Measures  The real weakened 1.1 percent to 1.7584 per U.S. dollar.
The yield on interest rate future contracts maturing January
2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, slid 2 basis points,
or 0.02 percentage point, to 9.01 percent at 5:01 p.m. in
Brasilia.  President Dilma Rousseff has come to the aid of industry by
reducing taxes on  consumer goods  and boosting public works ahead
of the 2014  World Cup  and the Summer Olympics two years later.
She has also attacked loose lending conditions in Europe and the
U.S. for unleashing what she said yesterday in Hanover,  Germany ,
was a “monetary tsunami” fueling currency gains in Brazil and
other emerging markets.  “The Brazilian government will take a pro-active position,
increasingly expanding sustainable economic growth, while
respecting macroeconomic stability with solid public finances,”
Rousseff told reporters in Hannover today. “Not only developed
nations’ growth rates are suffering, but emerging countries as
well.”  Foreign Investment  While manufacturers have struggled, foreign companies
betting on strong demand from a growing middle class plowed a
record $67 billion in foreign direct investment into the country
last year.  The investment rate fell to 19.3 percent of GDP last year
from 19.5 percent in 2010. Investments will grow 10 percent this
year, Mantega said today.  Auto manufacturers including Anhui Jianghuai Automobile
Group Co. from China and Germany’s Bayerische Motoren Werke AG
plan to invest an estimated 30 billion reais in Brazil over the
next three to five years, according to the Trade Ministry.  The recovery may soon run into capacity constraints that
reignite inflation concerns,  Alberto Ramos , chief  Latin America 
economist at Goldman Sachs & Co. said before today’s GDP
figures. Economists forecast policy makers will have to reverse
course and raise rates again next year to prevent inflation from
picking up, futures contracts show.  While the pace of price increases is slowing,  inflation  has
remained above the government’s 4.5 percent target since August
2010. In mid-February it stood at 5.98 percent.  Analysts expect Brazil’s economic growth to accelerate to
3.3 percent this year and to 4.15 percent next year, according
to a March 2 central bank survey of about 100 economists.  “The capacity for the economy to grow at 5 percent on a
sustainable basis without generating inflation is still not
there,” Ramos said in a telephone interview from  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 