-- Brazil Rate-Futures Yields Decline on GDP, Global Growth Concern
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-06T12:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/brazil-rate-futures-yields-decline-on-gdp-global-growth-concern.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell after a report that showed  Europe ’s
economy contracted last quarter spurred bets the central bank
will extend its cycle of interest-rate cuts to boost growth in
Latin America’s largest economy.  The yield on the contract due in January 2013 dropped nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 8.94 percent at 9:36
a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real weakened 0.5 percent to 1.7478 per
 U.S. dollar , from 1.7395 yesterday.  Traders stepped up bets on a longer cycle of rate cuts
ahead of this week’s monetary policy meeting as signs the global
economy is slowing fueled speculation policy makers will act
more aggressively to spur growth.  Brazil ’s economy expanded 1.4
percent in the fourth quarter, below the 1.5 percent median
estimate of 41 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the national
statistics agency said today. Gross domestic product grew 0.3
percent from the previous quarter, beating the 0.2 percent
estimate of 42 economists.  “GDP came within expectations and showed that the economy
began to recuperate, but only moderately,”  Luciano Rostagno ,
chief strategist at Banco West LB, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .
“As long as the external environment is bad, the market bets on
a longer cycle of rate cuts.”  Europe’s gross domestic product shrank 0.3 percent from the
third quarter, the region’s statistics office said today,
confirming an initial estimate published on Feb. 15. Exports
fell 0.4 percent and household spending declined 0.4 percent.  -- Editor: Richard Richtmyer  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Josue Leonel} in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
{Gabrielle Coppola} in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  