-- Breedon Ready With $1.6 Billion for Lafarge, Anglo Deal Fallout
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-03-06T13:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/breedon-ready-with-1-6-billion-for-lafarge-anglo-deal-fallout.html
Breedon Aggregates Ltd. (BREE) , whose
investors include  George Soros , can spend 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion) on assets that may come to the market as  Lafarge
SA (LG)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  pursue a tie-up in crushed rock.  The combination of Anglo’s Tarmac operation with Lafarge is
expected to prompt 250 million pounds to 500 million pounds of
assets to come onto the market when the Competition Commission
rules on its impact, Peter Tom, chairman of the Breedon-on-the-
Hill-based company, said by phone.  “We can comfortably spend up to 1 billion pounds on
acquisitions,” said Tom, the former chief executive of
Aggregate Industries, bought by  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  for $4.1 billion in
2005. “We do not expect assets of that size to come to market
in the short term.”  The aggregates industry may see further consolidation as
Lafarge and HeidelbergCement consider disposals as a means to
regain investment-grade ratings. Bernard Fontana, Holcim’s newly
appointed chief executive, is reviewing the company’s portfolio
and said he was open to divestments.  The Commission on Feb 21. said the planned Lafarge and
Anglo venture will reduce the number of U.K. cement makers to
three from four and limit competition. It may prohibit the
transaction in full or demand the sale of assets. The companies
may have to divest cement and ready-mix concrete operations on a
scale similar to the current operations of either company, the
Commission said.  Deal Activity  Merger and acquisition activity in the building materials
industry jumped 23 percent in 2011 to $27.9 billion, according
to data collected by Bloomberg. That’s still just 38 percent of
the $73.7 billion in deals announced in 2007. That year featured
the industry’s two largest deals ever, HeidelbergCement’s $18-
billion takeover of  Hanson (HEI) , and Lafarge buying Orascom’s
construction business for $15 billion.  The transactions inflated debt just prior to a slump in
U.S. and U.K housing markets, and lower economic growth due to
the European debt crisis. Like Lafarge and HeidelbergCement,
Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker in the Americas, was
stripped of its investment-grade  credit rating .  Lafarge CEO Bruno Lafont said he’s aiming to sell at least
1 billion euros of assets this year, and his counterpart Bernd Scheifele at HeidelbergCement in November said he was going to
look “more closely at disposals.”  “There are not many buyers for these assets,” Breedon
Chairman Tom said on the plants that Lafarge and Anglo may be
required to sell. “We are a natural buyer, and we have the
necessary firepower. We are in the fortunate position to be
supported by our banks and our shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 