-- British Athletes Use Video to Run Faster, Jump Higher at Games
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-06T00:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/british-athletes-use-video-to-run-faster-jump-higher-at-olympic-games.html
British athletes are turning to the
biggest-ever Olympic video analysis project to improve their
performance in between heats at this year’s Games in  London .  The British Olympic Association will use live video footage
from the venues to analyze athletes’ performances and movement
in competition during the Games, which start July 27. The video
feed, which costs 120,000 pounds ($191,000), will be sent to
Team GB House, located just outside of the Olympic Park at the
Stratford Westfield shopping center.  The captured footage will be fed into software produced by
Dartfish, a Fribourg, Switzerland-based company that’s used by
dozens of sports organizations and governing bodies as well as
elite athletes including Olympic sprint champion Usain Bolt. The
British team is the only team to have minute-by-minute live
access to the Olympic Broadcasting Services feed during the
Games, said  Dave Reddin , director of performance services at the
BOA and a former England rugby player.  “From our point of view, there is very little home
advantage,” at the London Games, Reddin said. “There are no
extra seats, there are no extra privileges for Team GB. Hence we
need to try and think more creatively about how we make the best
of what we’ve got. And I think this will help us.”  As many as six analysts from the English Institute of Sport
will be at Team GB House for up to 20 hours a day to help
capture relevant video and provide analysis on athletes or scout
the opposition in team sports such as basketball so the coaches
can make the necessary adjustments.  “Coaches can only recall 30 percent of what they see, so
that means 70 percent of the information isn’t used,” said
Stafford Murray, head of performance analysis and biomechanics
at the English Institute of Sport.  It’s the first time privately-held  Dartfish , which was
founded in 1998, will be delivering such a large project during
an  Olympic Games , Victor Bergonzoli, co-founder and chief
executive officer, said in an interview.  “The goal is to get real-time feeds as quickly as possible
into the hands of the coaches and athletes,” Bergonzoli said.
During a soccer match for example, Dartfish will be able to tag
all the passes not ending with a shot on goal, and send those
clips to the coaches’ handheld devices such as iPads or tablets
immediately after the game for analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story: Danielle Rossingh on the
London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  