-- British Olympic Team Doctor Says Clean Hands Will Lead to Medals in London
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-06T00:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/british-olympic-team-doctor-says-clean-hands-will-lead-to-medals-in-london.html
A gold medal performance at this
year’s  London  Olympics may come down to athletes washing their
hands properly, the British team’s top doctor said.  “The greatest threat to performance is illness and
injury,” Ian McCurdie, chief medical officer of  Team GB , said
in an interview with a small group of reporters in London. “The
Olympic environment is a hostile one. Housing can be dense, you
share rooms and restaurants with many other athletes and there
is a lot of extra stress. Most bugs you pick up on your hands,
so hand washing is absolutely critical.”  As host nation, Britain is aiming to maintain its fourth
place on the overall medal table from the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
The 550-strong British Olympic team -- the biggest in more than
a century -- will given hand foam made by Procter & Gamble’s
Vicks brand during their stay in the Olympic Village, which will
house around 10,000 athletes.  Contact with other people, such as friends and family
visiting the Games, or shaking hands with officials, should also
be kept to “a minimum” said McCurdie, for whom London will be
his fifth Games. And always wash your hands afterwards, he
added.  Although there is no scientific evidence hand washing stops
people from getting ill, the Norwegian team “significantly”
reduced its sick rate during the 2010  Vancouver   Winter Games 
compared to Turin in 2006 when it told its athletes to wash
their hands, McCurdie said. In Vancouver,  Norway  finished fourth
in the overall medals table, compared to a 13th place in Turin.  “Illness spreads quite quickly in the Olympic village, so
it’s a pretty easy thing to do and it saves the chances of
getting ill at the wrong time,” Laurence Halsted, a member of
the  British fencing squad , said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  