-- Cable Says U.K. Government Lacks Vision as Osborne Vows No Giveaway Budget
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-03-07T00:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/cable-says-u-k-lacks-vision-as-osborne-vows-no-giveaway-budget.html
Business Secretary Vince Cable
attacked a lack of “compelling vision” in Britain’s
government, saying efforts to narrow the budget deficit don’t
amount to an economic plan for the future.  The comments, made in a leaked letter to Conservative Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg , were published as Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said this year’s budget will include no
“unfunded giveaways,” reiterating his refusal to deviate from
his austerity plans.  “I sense, however, that there is still something important
missing: a compelling vision of where the country is heading
beyond sorting out the fiscal mess,” Cable, a Liberal Democrat,
 wrote in the letter , dated Feb. 8 and leaked to the  BBC . Its
authenticity was confirmed by his department yesterday.  The comments will add fire to a debate within the coalition
government over the need for Osborne’s budget to do more to aid
an economy that is struggling to avoid entering a second
recession in three years. Osborne, a Conservative, repeated the
need in a speech in  London  last night to tackle a deficit that’s
still “too high” by not borrowing money to fund tax cuts.  With two weeks to go until his annual budget, Osborne is
resisting calls from lawmakers on both sides of the House of
Commons to ease the tax burden on households, motorists and the
rich. “Credibility” will provide the best platform for
economic growth, along with measures to improve the flow of
credit to companies, he said.  ‘Paid For’  “The days of unfunded giveaways are over and they’re not
coming back in this budget,” Osborne said at a dinner hosted by
the EEF, a manufacturing lobby group, according to remarks
released by his office. “Everything has to be paid for.”  Cable said earlier yesterday that the Liberal Democrats are
prepared to scrap the 50 percent top rate of income tax as long
as the Tories agree to introduce new taxes on the rich.  The business secretary said his party favors the
introduction of a “mansion tax” on the most expensive
properties so the wealthy contribute “their share.” Homes
worth millions of pounds, particularly in the south of  England ,
are going untaxed under the current system, Cable said.  The Liberal Democrat push may face opposition from
Conservative lawmakers, many of whom want to abolish the top
income- tax rate  while remaining opposed to extra taxes on real
estate.  A report by the London-based Centre for Policy Studies this
week suggested a mansion tax on homes worth more than 2 million
pounds ($3.1 million) would only raise 1 billion pounds. Such a
levy would hit hardest people whose homes had risen in value,
rather than those with high personal incomes, according to the
report.  Johnson Criticism  Critics of the 50 percent income-tax rate, paid on personal
income above 150,000 pounds a year, include London Mayor  Boris Johnson , a Conservative. They argue it is a disincentive to
entrepreneurs, encourages  tax evasion  and risks diverting
investment abroad. The levy was introduced by the previous
Labour government and left Britain with a higher marginal tax
rate than the U.S.,  Germany  and  France .  Figures showing the U.K. budget deficit may be less than
expected in the fiscal year ending this month have prompted
calls from the Liberal Democrats for an increase in the
threshold at which workers start paying income tax, while
lawmakers in Cameron’s party are seeking tax cuts on fuel. The
opposition  Labour Party  is demanding a sales-tax reduction to
boost domestic demand.  Moody’s Warning  Osborne’s budget cuts will see more than 700,000 public-
sector jobs axed in the tightest fiscal squeeze since World War
II, as the economy teeters on the brink of a second recession in
three years. He said he’ll continue with plans to erase by 2017
the bulk of a  budget deficit  that equals 9 percent of gross
domestic product, after Moody’s Investors Service said Feb. 14
that Britain may lose its Aaa credit rating.  In his letter, Cable also suggested that the government
should use part of state-controlled  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  to create a business lender to support exports and
industrial projects.  Cable’s Labour Party opposite number in the House of
Commons, Chuka Umunna, said the business secretary’s letter read
more like the plea of a politician in opposition than by a
senior member of the government.  “The secretary of state is essentially writing a begging
letter to No. 10 Downing Street asking for them to adopt an
industrial strategy,” Umunna told Sky News television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  