-- Canadian 5-Year Notes to Be Cheapened Amid Rush to to Buy Homes, RBC Says
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-03-06T19:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/canadian-5-year-notes-to-be-cheapened-amid-rush-to-to-buy-homes-rbc-says.html
Home buying over the next few months
will distort the  yield curve  for Canadian  government bonds  more
than usual as consumers rush to take advantage of low  mortgage
rates  they perceive as fleeting, according to Royal Bank of
Canada.  “There are reasons to expect huge volumes of mortgage
applications this year, which will contribute to a very weak
four- and five-year sector of the curve,” Ian Pollick, a fixed-
income strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets
unit in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients titled “Bearish on
the belly.” The yield curve plots rates according to maturity.  Five-year government note yields could increase 20 basis
points, or 0.2 percentage point, during March and April as
lenders move to protect their balance sheets against  mortgage
loans , according to the report, dated March 1. Banks use five-
year interest-rate swap contracts to offset loans they make to
homeowners. This year, demand for fixed-rate mortgages means
banks will seek to pay fixed-rate in five-year swaps, leading to
higher bond yields, Royal Bank of  Canada  said.  Yields on Canada’s  five-year notes  fell four basis points
today to 1.40 percent. They have traded this year between 1.20
percent and 1.51 percent.  Canadian mortgage loans typically amortize over 25 years
but have a five-year balloon payment or renewal date when the
entire amount of the mortgage must be refinanced.  Average mortgage rates at a record  low  5.14 percent on Feb.
1 have helped spark record debt to sustain Canada’s housing
boom. The rate has crept higher to 5.24 percent, according to
Bloomberg data, as banks reportedly  withdraw  offers of five-year
loans as low as 2.99 percent.  U.S. housing prices plunged by a third between their peak
in July 2006 and November 2011, according to the S&P/Case-
Shiller Composite-20 Home Price Index. Canadian housing prices
rose 30 percent in the same period, according to the  Canadian
Real Estate Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  