-- Canadian Dollar Depreciates Through Parity as Global Risk Aversion Rises
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-03-06T22:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/canadian-dollar-falls-through-parity-as-concerns-over-global-growth-rise.html
Canada ’s dollar depreciated versus
its U.S. counterpart for a third day as concern the global
economy is slowing sapped demand for higher-risk assets such as
stocks and commodities.  The currency fell through parity, touching C$1.0029, the
weakest level since Feb. 27, before the nation’s central bank
meets in two days to set  interest rates . Crude oil, Canada’s
biggest export, weakened after  Europe ’s economy shrank in the
fourth quarter.  “Keep an eye on C$1.0050 -- break that, and you could see
some long Canadian-dollar squaring,”  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  in
Toronto, said referring to the closing of long positions, or
bets that the currency would appreciate. “If we get another
night of risk paring, then we could absolutely see an attempt at
it tomorrow.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.7 percent to C$1.0019
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It declined as much as 0.8
percent, the most in an intraday basis since Feb. 10. One
Canadian dollar purchases 99.81 U.S. cents.  Government bonds  rose, pushing benchmark 10-year note
 yields  down four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.93
percent. The 3.25 percent securities due in June 2021 increased
38 cents to C$111.10.  Two-year yields fell five basis points to 1.07 percent.
Canadian government bonds are down less than 0.1 percent this
year, versus a loss of 0.9 percent through the same period last
year.  Bank of Canada  Europe’s economy contracted 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, the European Union’s statistics office said, following
data yesterday that showed U.S. factory orders declined and
China’s announcement of the lowest growth target since 2004.  “Markets have continued to retreat and risk appetite is
under pressure,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy
at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London . “Currencies
correlated with risk appetite or commodities, which includes the
Canadian dollar on both counts, are underperforming.”  The Bank of Canada will leave its benchmark  interest rate 
at 1 percent, where it’s stood for more than a year, according
to the weighted average of 25 responses in a Bloomberg survey.  Policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney  said after the
bank’s most recent decision on Jan. 17 growth in Canada and the
U.S. will be “more modest” than forecast in October as
European leaders struggle to contain a debt crisis.  ‘Playing the Range’  “I would expect it should be relative steady as she
goes,” Stretch said, referring to the central bank’s March 8
decision. “I wouldn’t be expecting too much of a surprise later
in the week.”  Stretch recommends “playing the range” in the Canadian
dollar between 99.20 cents and C$1.0040 versus the greenback. He
said the Canadian currency has potential to make further gains
versus the Australian dollar.  The loonie rose for a third day versus the so-called
Aussie, trading up 0.4 percent to C$1.0573 after touching
C$1.0550, the strongest since Jan. 20.  “Canada, at this point, could have more legs,” than the
Australian dollar, Alessio de Longis, a portfolio manager at
Oppenheimer Funds, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on
“Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene. “Given the slowdown
we’re seeing in  China , and their expectations for lower growth,
the Canadian dollar probably offers more potential.” China is
Australia’s biggest trading partner.  The dollars of Canada and Australia are benefiting from
higher energy prices and an “insatiable demand” for assets
that carry AAA ratings, de Longis said.  The Canadian dollar has gained 0.9 percents over the past
three months, the third-best performer after the dollars of
Australia and  New Zealand  at 2.7 percent and 4.6 percent,
according to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  