-- Cape Advances to Four-Month High on Energy Boom: London Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r
-- 2012-03-06T09:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/cape-advances-to-four-month-high-on-energy-boom-london-mover.html
Cape Plc (CIU)  rose to the highest price
in four months after the supplier of scaffolding and
fireproofing to energy companies said it’s “entering a
sustained period of demand growth.”  Cape, whose clients include  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and BP Plc,
said today that revenue growth quickened to 21.5 percent in the
second half of 2011 from 1.1 percent in the first half. The
company is “well-positioned for continued growth,” Chairman
Tim Eggar said in a statement.  The  stock gained  as much as 6.6 percent to 457.6 pence, the
highest price since Nov. 8, and was up 5.3 percent at 9:10 a.m.
The shares have gained 38 percent this year, valuing Cape at
536 million pounds ($848 million).  Analysts including Sanjeev Bahl at Numis Securities
reiterated today that investors should buy the stock. James Thompson at JPMorgan predicted the shares will reach 576 pence
in 12 months, up from a previous target of 518 pence. Cape had
the strongest advance on the benchmark  FTSE 250 Index (MCX) , which was
down 1 percent.  “Momentum is building in a number of key regions and
projects, indicating that Cape is entering a sustained period of
demand growth for its services,” the company said. Strong  cash
flow  allowed “significant investments in both hard assets and
people in 2011,” Eggar said.  Cape, based in  Singapore  and registered in  Jersey , provides
industrial services such as insulation, cleaning and coatings to
plant operators and construction companies. The company is
benefitting from spending to maintain aging infrastructure in
the U.K. and to develop new resources such as liquefied natural
gas projects by Sonatrach, Algeria’s state-run energy company.  The company completed two acquisitions last year and is
“actively progressing a number of further opportunities,” it
said. Cape proposed total dividends on 2011 earnings of 14 pence
a share, or 5.6 percent more than the average estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  