-- Carlsberg Gains on Putin’s Russia Re-Election
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-06T09:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/carlsberg-gains-on-putin-s-russia-re-election.html
Carlsberg A/S (CARLB) ,  Russia ’s biggest
brewer, rose to the highest in two weeks in Copenhagen trading
as  Vladimir Putin ’s election victory increased the prospect of
stability and consumption growth in the eastern European nation.  Carlsberg  climbed  as much as 1.7 percent to 458.5 kroner,
the highest price since Feb. 21. The stock was  biggest gainer  in
the Copenhagen benchmark index of 20 companies, repeating
yesterday’s market-leading advance.  “Putin’s victory is giving Carlsberg a lift,” Rune M. Dahl, a London-based analyst with DnB Markets, said by phone
today. “Russian assets have been undervalued lately, and with
the exposure Carlsberg has to Russia, it’s good news for the
company that there’ll be a stable government.”  Carlsberg, the world’s fourth-largest brewer, had a Russian
market share of 37.4 percent in 2011 and generated 31 percent of
revenue from eastern  Europe . The beermaker, which last month
said it plans to buy the minority shares in its Russian Baltika
unit, said today it plans to delist the division regardless of
making an offer, a move that won’t need a shareholder meeting.  “Carlsberg may be taking a bit of a tough approach on
Baltika minority owners, but that’s how it’s done,” said Dahl,
who has a “buy”  recommendation  on the Danish company’s shares.
“The additional pressure on minority owners increases the
chances of Carlsberg gaining complete control. And Carlsberg
will definitely benefit from full control because it gives
operational flexibility in eastern Europe.”  Carlsberg was up 1.3 percent at 456.50 kroner at 10:09 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  