-- Cellcom Calls Jump on Earnings-Surprise Wagers: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-03-06T08:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/cellcom-calls-jump-on-earnings-surprise-wagers-israel-overnight.html
Options traders are the most bullish
on  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  in 13 months on bets the mobile-phone
company’s earnings will beat analysts’ forecasts.  The ratio between call options to buy Cellcom’s U.S.-traded
stock versus puts to sell rose to 1.444-to-1 on March 2, the
highest since Jan. 28, 2011 and up from 1.02 on Jan. 19, 2012.
Cellcom lost 1.8 percent yesterday as the  Bloomberg Israel-US 25
Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest U.S.-listed Israeli companies fell 0.9
percent to 84.86, a five-week low.  Cellcom, which has slumped 23 percent in New York this
year, is cutting staff and buying  Internet providers  to maintain
market share after Israel issued licenses to new mobile-phone
operators last year to bolster competition. The Netanya, Israel-
based company may report fourth-quarter  net income  of 100
million shekels ($26.4 million) tomorrow, according to the
average of two analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, from
319 million shekels in the same period of 2010.  “Speculators here are thinking that if there’s an earnings
surprise to the upside, there’s going to be a rally, and I want
to be a part of that,” Vince Lanci, owner of Echobay Partners
LLC, a commodity options-trading firm in Stamford,  Connecticut ,
said yesterday. “Others are saying that they don’t want to own
the shares outright, but in the event that the market is
oversold, they’re buying calls.”  The number of outstanding call contracts to buy Cellcom
shares was 3,313. The June $17.50 calls had 509 contracts
outstanding yesterday, the  most  of all Cellcom options,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cellcom declined 0.4 percent to 49.38 shekels, or the
equivalent of $13.01, at 9:50 a.m. in  Tel Aviv  after its U.S.-
traded shares closed at $12.94 yesterday.  Fee Cuts  Cellcom and Partner Communications Co.,  Israel ’s second-
largest mobile-phone company, may benefit should the government
force fixed-line providers  Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ) 
and  Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT)  to cut the fees they
charge Internet service providers, the Globes newspaper reported
yesterday without saying where it obtained the information.  Cellcom’s third-quarter profit tumbled 40 percent to 199
million shekels compared with the same period a year earlier.
While Partner decided not to issue a dividend in the second
quarter, Cellcom is expected to make a  payment  of 37 cents a
share.  “Investors may not be sure that Cellcom can continue to
meet its dividend,” said Jamia Jasper, president of AmerIsrael
Capital Management LLC in New York and an adviser to the
 American Israeli Shared Value Fund. (AISHX)  “It’s still possible more
players will come into the field seeing as how Cellcom and
Partner are struggling to make ends meet.”  Court Win  Ituran Location and Control Ltd. , a maker of systems for
locating stolen vehicles, rose 1.9 percent to an eight-month
high of $14.71 in New York after the company said it  received  a
favorable ruling from a Brazilian court. The  Administrative
Court  of the State of São Paulo dismissed a revenue  services 
claim against Azur, Israel-based Ituran, the company said in a
filing. The shares in Tel Aviv declined 0.2 percent to 56.05
shekels, or the equivalent of $14.77, today.  Ituran will pay a  dividend  of $1.23 on April 4, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The one risk that Ituran had was that lawsuit,” Andrew Uerkwitz, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York said by
phone last week. “A clear benefit that they offer shareholders
is a very sizable dividend, so this lawsuit was putting downward
pressure on the stock. With that gone, they’re shares got a bump
up.”  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  retreated 7.7 percent
yesterday to $37.30, a three-week low. Shares have lost 21
percent since the company said sales of its soda machines grew
at 8 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with 60 percent in
the previous period.  Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  fell 0.6 percent to 1,086.40 today.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China .
The nation is also home to more startup companies per capita
than the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  