-- Children Wait Another Year for UN Radiation Study
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-03-06T03:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/children-of-fukushima-wait-for-un-radiation-study.html
As five-year-olds charge through the
corridors of a kindergarten in northeast Japan at lunchtime,
teacher Junko Kamada says she is still unsure if their food is
safe a year after the Fukushima nuclear accident.  Since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami wrecked the
Fukushima plant, about 100 kilometers (62 miles) south of the
Sakuragi Hanazono kindergarten in Tagajo city, parents of the
198 children have been seeking assurances that the school
lunches are free of radiation.  “There’s so much information out there on radiation and
it’s difficult to know what we can believe,” Kamada said as she
held up two reports on the Fukushima disaster, one from the
government and one by independent researchers in Japan. “Which
one do you trust? There are so many conflicting reports.”  Kamada will need to wait at least another 14 months for a
unified view on food contamination when the United Nations
Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation issues
the first global and independent assessment of the Fukushima
nuclear accident. About 160,000 people, or 8 percent of the
 Fukushima prefecture  residents, were evacuated due to radiation
risk that has left about 132 square kilometers as a no-go zone.  The committee, known as UNSCEAR, will publish a report in
May 2013 that aims to give an analysis of radiation dosages
among citizens and forecast health risks in the coming decades,
Chairman Wolfgang Weiss said by telephone from Vienna. It will
give an estimate of the total radiation release from the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station and publish a study showing
how children’s health is affected by radiation, he said.  ‘Suspicion and Mistrust’  “This is a major accident and we were aware that people
would be anxious and there’d be suspicion and mistrust,” Weiss
said. “The huge work is to read this data and interpret it.”  The study is crucial because radiation estimates from the
Japanese government and plant operator  Tokyo Electric Power Co. 
are as much as 77 percent less than some estimates from overseas
organizations. The Japanese estimates have been revised twice as
more information became available.  “The UNSCEAR report is important because information
released is not only from the Japanese government but also other
sources summarized with an international consensus,” said
Hidenori Yonehara, director of the Regulatory Science Research
Program at the National Institute of Radiation Sciences, one of
the Japanese agencies helping UNSCEAR.  Chernobyl Experts  About 60 industry officials and scientists from 18
countries, including those who investigated the 1986 Chernobyl
accident, met for the first time in October to start on the
report, Weiss said. The committee is working with five other UN
agencies, including the World Health Organization and the Food
and Agriculture Organization, and Japanese counterparts.  The ability of UNSCEAR to draw upon all the available data
globally will make the committee’s report “the most official
one in the world,” said Toshimitsu Homma, head of safety
research at the Japan Atomic Energy Agency, based in  Ibaraki
prefecture .  The final report will be available to the public in October
2013 after approval by the UN’s science committee, he said.
UNSCEAR also published reports after the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear
plant accident in the Soviet Union.  Japan in April raised its rating of the Fukushima accident
from 5, the same as the 1979 partial meltdown at Three Mile
Island in Pennsylvania, to the highest level of 7 on the
international scale of nuclear emergencies, putting it on par
with Chernobyl.  ‘Misleading’  The move was actually “misleading,” Weiss said. Though
ranked the same as Chernobyl, Fukushima affected a land area 10
times smaller and avoided significant fallout of high-risk
uranium and strontium elements outside a no-go zone circling the
reactor, he said.  Japan’s estimates of radiation release from Fukushima could
be wrong and the actual amount could be half or double of what
the government reported, said Jun Sugimoto, a nuclear
engineering professor at  Kyoto University  working with UNSCEAR.
The UN effort will not gather new data for the report, he said.  According to Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency,
or NISA, the Fukushima plant has so far released 8,200
terabecquerels of cesium 137. That’s less than a quarter of the
35,800 terabecquerels estimated in a study led by Andreas Stohl
of the Norwegian Institute for Air Research and published in the
Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics journal Oct. 20.  The discrepancies occurred because of “huge
uncertainties,” including missing data on fuel temperatures
inside the reactors, said Japan Atomic Energy Agency’s Homma.  ‘Impossible’ Task  Still, even with the international resources the task of
gathering all the data and making an accurate estimate of the
total radiation release may end up being “almost impossible”
as investigators have yet to check conditions inside Fukushima
reactors, Homma said.  The hardest part may be calculating the radiation released
into the Pacific Ocean, where Fukushima Dai-Ichi faces, he said.  France’s Institute for Radiological Protection and Nuclear
Safety said in October that the accident led to the biggest
discharge of radioactive material into the ocean in history. The
institute estimates 27,000 terabecquerels of radioactive cesium
137 leaked into the sea from the Fukushima plant.  Tokyo Electric  last April estimated 940 terabecquerels of
cesium 137 had leaked from April 1 to April 6, it  said . The
utility assumed different durations of the water leak, which may
be the reason for the discrepancies, Tokyo Electric spokesman
 Tsuyoshi Shiraishi  said March 2.  The utility still hasn’t said when it will make public its
estimate of the total radiation release from the Dai-Ichi plant.
The task “needs careful analysis,” Shiraishi said.  Reassuring Measurements  So far, measurements of radiation exposure in Japan have
been reassuring, Weiss said.  Among the local population, the doses are “well below 20
to 25 millisieverts and most of these doses were very low, below
5 millisieverts,” Weiss said. “If it turns out that this is
correct then we would not expect to see any measurable increase
of cancer risk in the population.”  The highest exposure for a Dai-Ichi worker was recorded at
680 millisieverts, almost seven times the level at which the
risk of cancer starts to increase.  The UNSCEAR report isn’t directed at government policy
although the information can be used for decisions on
decontamination, relocation of people and other issues, Weiss
said.  “We cannot answer all the questions,” Weiss said.
“People will want to know if it’s not dangerous today, will it
be in the next 10 years?”  Back at the Sakuragi Hanazono kindergarten, damage to
classrooms from last year’s tsunami has been repaired.  “The school has been cleaned up and we were able to
restart classes quite quickly, and in a lot of ways things are
getting better,” said Kamada, the teacher. Still, “our number
one worry is radiation and food.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  