-- Chilean Peso Drops to Five-Week Low on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   J a m e s   A t t w o o d   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-03-06T18:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/chilean-peso-drops-to-five-week-low-on-global-growth-concern.html
Chile’s peso extended its longest
streak of losses this year as mounting concern that a global
economic slowdown will damp exports for the top copper-producing
nation pushed the currency to a five-week low.  The peso plunged 1.2 percent to 491.25 per  U.S. dollar  at
from 485.50 yesterday, its fifth consecutive decline. The
currency has weakened 2.3 percent in the last month. It
continued to fall in after-hours trading, weakening as much as
493.23 as of 3:15 p.m. in Santiago, according to Datatec prices.  “It’s tied to what’s happening internationally,” said
Ronald Volpi, head of spot currency trading at EuroAmerica
Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago.  Copper slumped as much as 3.2 percent in  New York , heading
for the biggest retreat in two weeks, and the  MSCI All-Country
World Index (MXWD)  lost 2.1 percent after the European Union’s
statistics office confirmed that  Europe ’s economy contracted 0.3
percent in the fourth quarter. A report yesterday showed U.S.
factory orders declined in January while China announced the
lowest annual growth target since 2004.  Holders of 20 percent of the Greek bonds available for a
swap have said they will participate in the debt restructuring,
which ends March 8 and is required for a bailout.  Chilean bond yields dropped. The yield on 10-year
inflation-linked central bank bonds fell four basis points to a
two-week low of 2.38 percent.  Chilean  interest-rate swaps  declined, as they did in other
countries such as Australia and  Brazil . The one-year swap rate
slid four basis points to 4.99 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Attwood in Santiago at 
 Jattwood3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  