-- China’s Tobacco Monopoly Bigger by Profit Than HSBC
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-06T09:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/china-s-tobacco-monopoly-bigger-by-profit-than-hsbc.html
China National Tobacco Corp. , the
nation’s cigarette monopoly, may be larger by annual profit than
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , according to a rare
release of the company’s financial data.  The state-owned tobacco company had net income of 117.7
billion yuan ($18.7 billion) in 2010 on sales of 770.4 billion
yuan. Industrial Bank Co. released the figures in a statement
late yesterday because China National Tobacco is buying a 5.2
billion yuan stake in the Shanghai-listed lender.  Authorities in China, home to a third of all the world’s
smokers, have been criticized by groups including the  World
Health Organization  for not doing enough to prevent tobacco use.
Critics say the  tax revenue  the government derives from the
industry -- more than $95 billion last year -- has hindered
efforts to discourage smoking.  “It would be better if they could also disclose more
information about the health impact of their products, which we
lack in  China ,” Wan Xia, a Beijing-based researcher at the
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences who is studying the effects
of smoking in the country, said in a telephone interview. She
said the figures released by Industrial Bank are the first she’s
seen for China National Tobacco’s profit.  About 1 million Chinese die from tobacco-related illnesses
every year, according to the WHO.  HSBC reported $16.8 billion of profit for its most recent
fiscal year and Wal-Mart posted $15.7 billion. Figures for 2011
weren’t given for China National Tobacco.  18th Biggest  Its 2010 figures would make China National Tobacco the
world’s 18th largest company by profit, one spot ahead of
American International Group and just behind JPMorgan Chase &
Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It would be the
world’s 30th largest company by sales, just behind  Allianz SE. (ALV)   China National Tobacco made more in profit in 2010 than the
combined total for  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,  British
American Tobacco Plc (BATS) , and Altria Group, Inc., the world’s three-
biggest listed tobacco companies, according to the figures.  China, the world’s most-populous nation is home to more
than  350 million smokers . Almost three in every five men smoke.
The volume of cigarettes sold in China is expected to rise at an
average 14 percent annually during the five years through 2015
to hit 1.8 trillion yuan in retail sales, researcher Euromonitor
International said in a July report.  China has previously only disclosed annual sales and tax
revenue figures for the tobacco industry and not specifically
for China National Tobacco. The State Tobacco Monopoly
Administration, which also runs China National Tobacco, said in
January that the nation’s tobacco industry’s net income before
taxes rose 22.5 percent to 753 billion yuan, according to a
 report  by the official Xinhua News Agency.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  