-- China May Expand Property-Tax Trials Beyond Cities of Shanghai, Chongqing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-06T10:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/china-is-studying-widening-scope-of-its-property-tax-trials-minister-says.html
Chinese Finance Minister  Xie Xuren 
said the nation may expand property-tax trials, as the
government prolongs efforts to cool the real-estate market, make
housing affordable and limit asset bubbles.  Taxes can guide housing demand, Xie said at a press
briefing in Beijing today during the annual meeting of the
National People’s Congress, without saying where more tests
could take place. So far, the government has pilot projects in
Shanghai and Chongqing.  China’s benchmark stock index fell the most in a month
today after the government yesterday set a lower economic growth
target for this year than 2011 and officials reiterated that
curbs on the real-estate market would stay.  Anhui Conch Cement
Co. (914) , the nation’s biggest maker of the building material,
tumbled 4.4 percent as property developer  China Vanke Co. (200002) ’s
sales slumped.  “There is agreement among the authorities that a property
tax is one mechanism that can prevent asset bubbles in the long
run,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist for Societe
Generale SA. Xie’s comments are “confirmation that they are
going to do it on a wider scale,” she said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s efforts to rein in property prices
have added to the risk of a deeper slowdown in the world’s
second-biggest economy. In his report to the National People’s
Congress yesterday, he said that regulation of the real estate
market is at a “crucial stage.”  Growth Goal  The government is targeting a 7.5 percent expansion in
gross domestic product this year, down from the 8 percent goal
in place since 2005.  China  ought to introduce a property tax to provide a stable
source of revenue for local governments,  Li Daokui , an academic
adviser to the People’s Bank of China, told reporters in Beijing
today.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.4 percent, the biggest
loss since Feb. 7 and paring this year’s gain to 9.6 percent.  Sales at Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property
developer, dropped 27 percent in the first two months of 2012
from a year earlier to 19 billion yuan ($3 billion). Sales last
month slumped 40 percent from January, the company said. The
stock dropped 0.9 percent.  Separately, Xie said the government will appropriately
handle debt repayments by local governments and continue to take
steps to control their borrowing. Local authorities have set up
funds to repay debts and the government will ensure financing
for major projects, he said.  Debt will be categorized and gradually incorporated into
budget management, he said, without elaborating.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  