-- China Welcomes Greater American Role in Asia as Focus Shifts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-06T04:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/china-welcomes-greater-role-for-u-s-in-asia-amid-obama-s-strategic-pivot.html
China  welcomes the U.S. role in Asia
and at the same time believes the Obama administration must
respect Chinese interests in the region, Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  said at a briefing in Beijing today.  Ties between the U.S. and China are moving forward, Yang
said in response to a reporter’s question about China’s attitude
toward American plans for a strategic pivot toward Asia. He said
China and the U.S. have more  common interests  in Asia than they
do in any other regions of the world.  China has sought to play down tensions with the U.S.,
choosing not to criticize an agreement to bolster America’s
military footprint in the region with the announcement that as
many as 2,500 Marines will be stationed in  Australia . Yang’s
comments, made during the annual meeting of China’s National
People’s Congress today, come after the country announced
defense spending would rise 11.2 percent for 2012.  “To sustain the sound and steady relationship of the
China-U.S. relationship is the common responsibility of the two
countries,” Yang said. “There are some differences and
disagreements between China and the United States but this
relationship has been moving forward rather than backward.”  President  Barack Obama  said in November that the U.S. would
shift the focus of its foreign policy to the Asia-Pacific
region.  Vice President Xi Jinping, expected to become China’s top
leader in a Communist Party transition that begins later this
year, visited the U.S. in February and called on the Obama
administration to respect China’s interests and accommodate
China’s economic priorities.  The two sides are in close communication over Syria and
 Iran , Yang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  