-- China Rules, Print-Room Tips, Credit Suisse: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-06T13:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/china-rules-print-room-tips-credit-suisse-buy-back-compliance.html
China ’s banking regulator plans to
implement more stringent capital adequacy ratios in the second
half of the year, giving lenders time to prepare, said  China
Banking Regulatory Commission  Assistant Chairman Yan Qingmin.  Yan made the remarks to reporters during meetings of the
 National People’s Congress .  The regulator is seeking industry feedback and approval
from the State Council on the Basel III rules, which give the
world’s largest lenders, including  Industrial and Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. , until 2019 to increase core capital ratios
to as much as 9.5 percent of risk-weighted assets, Yan said.  China should move faster to liberalize  interest rates  to
encourage competition, even though the change may reduce
lenders’ profitability, Yan said. It’s not sustainable for banks
to make more than 60 percent of profit from the difference
between borrowing and lending rates, he said.  The country will gradually eliminate negative real interest
rates, Yan said. He said China has no plans to reduce the
required 75 percent loan-to-deposit ratio.  Separately, China may allow companies to sell high-yield
bonds on a trial basis as soon as the first half as the
government seeks to aid businesses struggling for funding, the
head of the nation’s securities regulator said.  The  China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRZ)  hopes to allow
sales as early as possible and may be able to start trials in
the first six months of this year, Chairman  Guo Shuqing  told
reporters after attending legislative meetings held in Beijing
yesterday.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Swiss Lawmakers Approve U.S. Tax-Treaty Amendment, Aiding Talks  Switzerland’s lower house approved an amendment to a
double-taxation agreement with the U.S., allowing so-called
group requests in cases of suspected tax evasion or  tax fraud .  The amendment to the 2009 tax treaty will enable U.S.
authorities to obtain data on groups of American clients holding
Swiss bank accounts without knowing their identities.
Yesterday’s vote in parliament in the Swiss capital Bern was 110
to 56, with 14 abstentions.  Switzerland and the U.S. are holding talks to resolve an
investigation involving 11 Swiss financial firms after the
Department of Justice indicted Wegelin & Co. on Feb. 2 for
allegedly helping customers hide money from the Internal Revenue
Service. The amendment would “significantly increase” the
amount of client data eligible for administrative assistance,
the Swiss government said last month.  The amendment clarifies a September 2009 tax accord, which
Switzerland signed after agreeing six months earlier to meet
international standards to avoid being blacklisted as a tax
haven by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. While a 1996 agreement already allows the transfer
of dossiers in cases of tax fraud, the new accord will extend
group requests to tax evasion.  The Swiss government must ratify the modified 2009 double-
taxation agreement, covering cases starting in September of that
year. The U.S. Senate also needs to approve it.  Separately, the U.K. and Germany must modify their tax
arrangements with Switzerland so they don’t interfere with
broader savings-income tax accords, said European Union  Tax
Commissioner  Algirdas Semeta.  EU’s Barnier Said to Offer Draft Shadow-Banking Rules Next Week  European Union regulators, concerned about attempts to
evade a clamp-down on excessive risk taking, will weigh tougher
rules for money market funds and other so-called shadow banks,
according to an EU official familiar with the proposal.  Michel Barnier , the region’s financial services chief, will
publish draft plans for regulating shadow banks next week and
may seek to have new rules in place by the start of 2013,
according to the official who declined to be identified because
the talks are private.  Options being considered by the EU include extending
 capital requirements  for lenders and insurers to shadow banks,
or forcing them to comply with oversight rules that were
originally intended for hedge funds, the person said.  The Group of 20 nations has urged regulators to rein in
lenders that minimize the capital requirements by using shadow
banks to shift risks off their balance sheets.  Barnier will seek views on the proposals, which are set to
be adopted on March 13, before deciding how to proceed,
according to the official.  Sommers Says CFTC Will Publish Guidance on International Reach  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission may publish
guidelines within weeks on the international reach of Dodd-Frank
Act derivatives rules, said Jill E. Sommers, a Republican
commissioner.  The guidelines will cover when institutions would be
required to register with the CFTC, Sommers said yesterday in a
speech at a bankers’ conference in  Washington . The agency may
consider other guidelines or rules governing the international
reach of new clearing and market-infrastructure rules, she said.  Banks Should Tell Customers How to Recover PPI Money, FSA Says  Banks should contact customers who were wrongly sold loan
coverage known as payment protection insurance and explain how
to apply for compensation, the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority said today.  Banks that mis-sold insurance on credit-card and mortgage
payments should write to customers to warn them of the deadline
for making claims, the London-based FSA said in a statement on
its website.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Britain’s largest mortgage
lender, posted a wider-than-estimated full-year loss last month
due to reimbursing customers for improperly-sold payment
protection insurance, or PPI. The British Bankers’ Association,
an industry group, lost a court challenge last year to stop the
regulator from ordering them to pay compensation.  Compliance Action  UBS, JPMorgan Print-Room Data Used in U.K. Insider-Trading Ring  Seven people made more than 1 million pounds ($1.5 million)
profit by trading on information taken from the print rooms for
UBS AG and  JP Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , a lawyer for the  Financial
Services Authority  said yesterday.  Inside information obtained by brothers Ersin Mustafa and
Ali Mustafa who worked at the firms’ print rooms was used by
five others to place trades through Mitesh Shah, who was a
broker at Finspreads, now called City Index Ltd., said Michael
Bowes, a lawyer for the prosecution. The men bet on six
companies, including Biffa Group Ltd. and  Premier Oil Plc. (PMO) ,
between May 2006 and 2008.  The FSA filed charges in the case, known as Saturn, in 2010
after a 21-month investigation, which employed around 25 lawyers
and investigators probing 130 trading accounts. The defendants
in the Saturn case were either family members or friends, and
were able to coordinate their actions, said Michael Bowes, a
lawyer for the prosecution. Executives at the banks weren’t
involved in the ring.  There is “no allegation whatsoever that anyone” at
JPMorgan or UBS did anything wrong, Bowes said.  Credit Suisse Offers to Buy Back $4.4 Billion in Hybrid Bonds  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank,
offered to repurchase 4 billion Swiss francs ($4.4 billion)in
outstanding tier 1 and tier 2 securities as it prepares to
replace them with capital instruments that satisfy new Swiss and
Basel III rules.  Financial Officer  David Mathers  said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday that Credit Suisse plans to change “its
capital structure well in advance of the required implementation
dates.”  Credit Suisse is selling contingent capital bonds to
replace so-called hybrid debt, which will no longer count as the
highest-quality capital under rules approved by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision in 2010. The bank met yesterday
and will meet again today with investors before a possible sale
of contingent capital notes, a banker with knowledge of the
plans, who declined to be identified because the information is
private, said last week.  Credit Suisse agreed in February of last year to sell $3.5
billion and 2.5 billion francs of contingent convertible bonds,
known as CoCos, to existing shareholders in Qatar and Saudi
Arabia in exchange for tier 1 capital notes sold in 2008. Under
current rules, banks can count hybrid debt --perpetual
securities that can only be redeemed with regulatory approval --
as tier 1 capital. Rule-makers decided in 2010 to phase out most
hybrid debt as capital starting in 2013 because it failed to
provide a buffer for losses in the financial meltdown.  FSA Orders Co-Op Overhaul Before Lloyds Deal, Telegraph Says  Britain’s Financial Services Authority has ordered Co-
Operative Group Ltd. to overhaul its structure as it prepares to
take over  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Verde branches, the Sunday
Telegraph reported.  Co-Op may have to provide an additional 3 billion-pounds
($4.8 billion) of capital and add members to the board with FSA-
approved experience to get consent for the 1.5 billion- pound
deal, the newspaper reported, without saying where it got the
information.  British Regulators Meet With Banks to Discuss Future of Libor  U.K. regulators and  banks  met to discuss revisions to the
setting of global interest rates after lenders faced allegations
that they manipulated the benchmark for about $360 trillion of
securities.  The meeting was held yesterday to “consider future
regulatory and market developments” for the  London  interbank
offered rate, the  British Bankers’ Association  said in a
statement today. Regulators and banks now plan to initiate a
“technical discussion” about “likely future developments”
with market participants who rely on Libor, the BBA said.  U.K., U.S., Canadian and Japanese regulators have been
investigating whether banks misstated Libor submissions to hide
their difficulty raising funds or to benefit trading positions
in interest rate derivatives tied to the benchmark. The probes
have called into question whether lenders can be trusted to set,
with no regulatory oversight, a rate that is linked to
everything from floating-rate mortgages to commercial loans.  The BBA says on its website that typically a bank’s
treasurer or other nominated individual is the only person at a
lender responsible for making Libor submissions.  Courts  New York Money Manager Raised $75 Million in Fraud, SEC Says  A money manager from Old Westbury,  New York , was accused of
running a scheme in which he lied to 24 investors who gave him
$74.9 million from 2005 to 2012, telling them the money would be
put into hedge funds, including those run by  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Brian Raymond Callahan used the money to pay back other
investors and for personal expenses such as a “multimillion-
dollar cooperative unit on  Long Island ,” the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission said yesterday in a civil complaint
filed in federal court in New York.  Callahan didn’t tell his clients he was barred in 2009 from
associating with any member of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, according to the SEC. The agency asked for an
immediate freeze on his assets. It said Callahan refused to
appear for sworn testimony pursuant to a subpoena.  Robert Knuts, a lawyer for Callahan, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Callahan,
12-cv-01065, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Central Islip).  Interviews/Speeches  SEC’s Gallagher Calls for Re-Proposing Volcker Trading Ban  U.S. regulators should “go back to the drawing board” and
make extensive revisions to their proposed ban on banks’
proprietary trading, Securities and Exchange Commission member
Daniel Gallagher said in a speech.  The SEC and other agencies have received more than 17,000
public comments about the rule named for former Federal Reserve
Chairman Paul Volcker, who championed the ban as an adviser to
President Barack Obama. Among those expressing concern are
regulators from  Japan , the U.K. and Canada, Gallagher said.  “Even a quick review of the many substantial comment
letters the commission received reveals widespread fears
regarding the effect of the proposed rules on the proper
functioning of global markets and the competitiveness of the
U.S. financial industry,” Gallagher said yesterday in
Washington. “These are fears that I share.”  Lawmakers included the Volcker rule in the Dodd-Frank Act
to limit risky trading by banks that benefit from federal
deposit insurance and other government protections. The 298-page
proposal released by the SEC and other agencies in October
sought feedback on some 1,300 questions, fueling criticism that
the rule is too complex.  “Regulators must be willing to re-examine our initial
efforts and, if necessary, go back to the drawing board to make
sure we regulate wisely, rather than just quickly,” Gallagher
said at an  Institute of International Bankers conference .
Separately, said Jill E. Sommers, a Republican member of the
 Commodity Futures Trading Commission , spoke at the conference
about the inability of U.S. regulators to agree on guidelines
for the international reach of the Dodd-Frank Act.  She expressed concern about possible disruption of the $708
trillion global swaps market.  “I’m deeply concerned that there has not been adequate
coordination” with the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission 
and non-U.S. regulators, she said yesterday in a speech at an
 Institute of International Bankers  conference in Washington.
“Of even greater concern to me is that the commission appears
to be considering a piecemeal approach,” she said of the CFTC.  The CFTC may publish guidelines within weeks on the
international reach of the rules, Sommers said. The guidelines
will cover when institutions would be required to register with
the CFTC as swap dealers. The agency may consider other
guidelines or rules governing the international reach of new
clearing and market-infrastructure rules. The guidelines would
be open to public comment, Sommers told reporters after the
speech.  The agencies should publish a joint or coordinated rule,
Sommers said.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  London City Job Openings Fell 38% Last Month, Recruiter Says  Job vacancies at London’s financial-services companies fell
38 percent last month as the euro region’s sovereign debt crisis
hampered confidence, recruitment firm  Astbury Marsden  said.  New vacancies in the British capital’s City and Canary
Wharf financial districts fell to 3,585 last month from 5,800 a
year ago, the recruiter said in a statement yesterday.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s largest
government-owned lender, announced cuts of 4,800 jobs in
January, blaming volatile markets and increasing U.K.
regulation.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Britain’s biggest bank, said last
year that it’s removing 30,000 positions.  Mark Cameron, chief operating officer at Astbury Marsden,
said in the statement that while February has been “more
subdued,” now that fears of a double dip are receding, demand
has become more consistent the last couple of weeks.  King Overhauls Staff in BOE’s ‘Fishing Ground’ for Policy Makers  The Bank of England is overhauling the leadership of its
economics division as Governor Mervyn King and Chief Economist
Spencer Dale put in place a new crop of officials who may be
picked for future policy roles.  The revamp that began yesterday is focused on managers in
Dale’s department, which produces forecasts, statistics and
economic analysis, according to the central bank’s  website . The
officials changing position or assuming new roles are Robert
Woods, James Bell, Neal Hatch, Phil Evans and Chris Young.  The staff changes come as King and Deputy Governor Charles
Bean approach the final year of their terms, and the central
bank prepares to take on new regulatory powers over financial
institutions.  For more, click here.  Bank of England’s Tucker Named Chairman of BIS Committee  Paul Tucker , a deputy governor of the Bank of England, was
named chairman of the Committee on Payment and Settlement
Systems, a group at the Bank for International Settlements
bringing together global regulators to coordinate rules for
clearinghouses.  He was appointed for a three-year term, according to a
statement from the BIS yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 