-- Commodities Head for Biggest 2012 Decline
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-03-06T21:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/commodities-head-for-biggest-12-decline-on-concern-over-slowing-economies.html
Commodity prices posted their
biggest drop this year on signs that slowing global economies
will erode demand for raw materials.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
dropped 1.5 percent to close at 692.61 in  New York , the biggest
loss since Dec. 14. Declines were paced by arabica coffee, which
dropped to the lowest since October 2010. Lead tumbled as much
as 4.1 percent, and gold touched a five-week low.  European economies shrunk in the fourth quarter and U.K.
retail sales slid for a second month in February, separate
reports showed today. China, the world’s biggest consumer of
everything from aluminum to cotton to soybeans, yesterday
lowered its economic-growth target. Commodities may face a
“sizable” correction as the global expansion cools, INTL
FCStone Inc. said yesterday.  “Across the board, it’s just a panic,” Harry Denny, a
broker at Hoboken, New Jersey-based PVM Futures Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “ China  is just so important for
commodities. We knew there was a slowdown coming, but we just
hadn’t heard it, and when we heard it, a lot of guys went
running.”  The GSCI gauge has still rallied 7.4 percent this year as
reports signaled manufacturing gains in China and  India  and as
the U.S. job market improved. A drought in  South America  has
curbed the outlook for supplies of soybeans, corn and sugar. In
the week ended Feb. 28, money managers lifted their bets on a
commodity rally to the highest since September, U.S. government
data show.  ‘Damaged’ Outlook  “The impetus, the momentum, is damaged” for commodities,
 Edward Meir , an analyst at INTL FCStone in New York, said in a
telephone interview today. “All of the good news seems to be
baked in.” Prices may tumble 10 percent from this year’s highs
by early April, he said.  Commodities also fell today as a stronger dollar eroded
demand for raw materials as alternative assets. The U.S. Dollar
Index, a measure of the greenback against six currencies,
touched a two-week high today.  China’s economy  may expand 8.5 percent this year, down from
9.2 percent last year, according to a Bloomberg survey of 21
analysts.  “People are factoring that China is really slowing,”
 James Cordier , the founder of Optionsellers.com in Tampa,
 Florida , said in a telephone interview. “European growth is
going to slow dramatically after the implementation of austerity
measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  