-- U.S. ’Pointing Fingers’ With Trade Bill: China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-07T04:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/congress-passes-bill-preserving-duties-on-chinese-imports-2-.html
Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said a U.S. bill aimed at offsetting government 
subsidies in countries including China amounted to "pointing 
fingers," and was inconsistent with American law.  China's central government hasn't given banned subsidies 
to businesses, while aid below the federal level may be more 
"problematic," Chen told reporters in Beijing today. The bill, 
passed yesterday in the Senate, isn't in line with World Trade 
Organization rules, Chen said, raising the potential of a
 trade  case should President  Barack Obama  sign it.  The bill responds to a Dec. 19 decision by a U.S. appeals
court in Washington that said existing law doesn’t authorize the
agency to set tariffs on goods from countries lacking a domestic
market to establish prices. The House yesterday passed the
legislation 370-39 after the Senate backed it March 5. U.S.
Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said last week the Obama
administration helped to craft the measure.  Passage marked a rare achievement for a divided Congress
that has yielded few accomplishments since Republicans took
control of the House last year.  “I hope this is the beginning of more bipartisan trade
negotiations,” Representative Bill Pascrell, a New Jersey
Democrat, said yesterday on the House floor. “I think it’s
healthy. Let’s not stop with the passage of this bill but
continue to move forward on a fair trade policy that puts
American workers and businesses first.”  The legislation overcomes a court’s challenge of a policy,
in place since President  George W. Bush ’s administration, that
led to U.S. duties on undervalued imports of about two dozen
Chinese products. Companies that have benefited from duties
include U.S. paper and steel manufacturers. Since 2007, the
policy helped protect an estimated 80,000 U.S. jobs, Baucus and
Thune said in a statement.  Duties in Jeopardy  The court ruling had put in jeopardy duties on tires, steel,
aluminum, paper, chemicals and other imports valued at $4.7
billion a year, according to a legislative report by Bloomberg
Government. The U.S. had issued 24 orders on the imports, mostly
from  China  and Vietnam, according to the analysis.  China’s central government has “no prohibited subsidies
provided to economic entities,” Chen said today in Beijing at a
press briefing during the annual meeting of the National
People’s Congress, according to a live English translation
broadcast on  China Central Television . He said China is a big
country and there might be “problematic” subsidies at regional
levels.  “The U.S. has been pointing fingers,” Chen said.
Congress’s action is not consistent with U.S. laws and “it’s
not in line with WTO rules,” he said.  House, Senate Sponsors  Republican Representatives  Dave Camp  of Michigan, chairman
of the House Ways and Means Committee, and  Kevin Brady  of  Texas ,
as well as  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , the senior Democrat on the
committee, and Jim McDermott, a Washington Democrat, co-
sponsored the House version. The Senate version was sponsored by
Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat who leads the Finance
Committee, and  John Thune  of  South Dakota , the senior Republican
on the committee’s trade panel.  Camp and Brady issued statements saying the legislation was
compliant with U.S. obligations to the WTO.  The House and Senate have been riven in the past year by
partisan battles over spending, which brought the U.S. to the
brink of government shutdowns four times last year. Debate on
steps to cut the deficit collapsed in November.  This year, Congress extended a payroll tax cut through
December, though lawmakers in both parties say little else may
get done besides bills funding federal agencies.  Public Contempt  The public’s contempt for Congress has grown amid the
inactivity. Last month, the Gallup Poll registered the lowest-
ever approval rating for Congress, with just 10 percent of
Americans saying they approved of the job Congress is doing.
That was down from 13 percent in a January poll and a previous
low of 11 percent in December. The nationwide poll of 1,029
adults was conducted Feb. 2-5.  The Club for Growth, an anti-tax advocacy group based in
 Washington , opposes the House bill, saying it will hurt U.S.
businesses and the nation’s trade relationship with China.  “These duties restrict economic liberty and are anti-
growth,” the group said in a statement to lawmakers posted on
its website, warning that it will hold them accountable for
their votes. “We strongly urge members of Congress to defeat
this proposal.”  The countervailing duties legislation also seeks to resolve
a World Trade Organization determination in 2011 that said a
method the Commerce Department uses to determine duty margins
violates U.S. international trade obligations.  ‘Unfairly Subsidized’  “It is critical to leveling the playing field for American
employers and workers who face unfairly subsidized imports from
countries like China.” Kirk said in an e-mailed statement.  In December, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit ruled unanimously that Commerce needed action by
Congress to set tariffs on subsidized goods from nations, such
as China and  Vietnam , that lack a domestic market. The three-
judge panel upheld a U.S. Court of International Trade decision
that declared illegal tariffs on Chinese tires.  Anti-dumping duties apply to goods sold overseas at or
below the price in the home country. Countervailing duties aim
to offset the benefits of government subsidies to industries.  The House bill is H.R. 4105.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  