-- Congress Set to Pass Bill Preserving Tariffs to Offset Chinese Subsidies
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-03-06T00:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/congress-set-to-pass-bill-preserving-tariffs-to-offset-chinese-subsidies.html
The U.S. House is set to vote today
on bipartisan legislation letting the Commerce Department apply
duties to offset government subsidies in nations such as  China (TBBLCHNA) ,
a day after the Senate passed a similar measure.  The bill responds to a Dec. 19 decision by a U.S. appeals
court in  Washington  that said existing law doesn’t authorize the
agency to set tariffs on goods from countries lacking a domestic
market to establish prices.  Passage in both chambers would mark a rare achievement by a
divided Congress that has yielded few accomplishments since
Republicans took control of the House last year.  “We’re backing American workers and businesses in the
fight against China’s unfair trade practices,” Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat who leads the Finance Committee, said
in an e-mailed statement with  John Thune  of  South Dakota , the
senior Republican on the committee’s trade panel. “China
doesn’t get a free pass to violate the rules at the expense of
American jobs.”  The legislation, sponsored by the two lawmakers, would
overcome a court’s challenge of a policy, in place since
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, that led to U.S.
duties on undervalued imports of about two dozen Chinese
products. Companies that have benefited from duties include U.S.
paper and steel manufacturers. Since 2007, the policy helped
protect an estimated 80,000 U.S. jobs, Baucus and Thune said in
a statement.  House Legislation  Republican Representatives  Dave Camp  of  Michigan , chairman
of the House Ways and Means Committee, and  Kevin Brady  of  Texas ,
as well as  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the senior Democrat on the
committee, and Jim McDermott, a Washington Democrat, co-
sponsored the House version.  The House and Senate have been riven in the past year by
partisan battles over spending, which brought the U.S. to the
brink of government shutdowns four times last year. Debate on
steps to cut the deficit collapsed in November.  This year, Congress extended a payroll tax cut through
December, though lawmakers in both parties say little else may
get done besides bills funding federal agencies.  The public’s contempt for Congress has grown amid the
inactivity. Last month, the Gallup Poll registered the lowest-
ever approval rating for Congress, with just 10 percent of
Americans saying they approved of the job Congress is doing.
That was down from 13 percent in a January poll and a previous
low of 11 percent in December. The nationwide poll of 1,029
adults was conducted Feb. 2-5.  WTO Determination  The Club for Growth, an anti-tax advocacy group based in
Washington, opposes the House bill, saying it will hurt U.S.
businesses and the nation’s trade relationship with  China .  “These duties restrict economic liberty and are anti-
growth,” the group said in a statement to lawmakers posted on
its website, warning that it will hold them accountable for
their votes. “We strongly urge members of Congress to defeat
this proposal.”  The countervailing duties legislation also are an attempt
to resolve a World Trade Organization determination in 2011 that
said a method the Commerce Department uses to determine duty
margins violates U.S. international trade obligations.  U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said last week that his
office worked with the lawmakers on the legislation.  “It is critical to leveling the playing field for American
employers and workers who face unfairly subsidized imports from
countries like China.” he said in an e-mailed statement.  In December, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit ruled unanimously that Commerce needed action by
Congress to set tariffs on subsidized goods from nations, such
as China and Vietnam, that lack a domestic market. The three-
judge panel upheld a U.S. Court of International Trade decision
that declared illegal tariffs on Chinese tires.  Anti-dumping duties apply to goods sold overseas at or
below the price in the home country. Countervailing duties aim
to offset the benefits of government subsidies to industries.  The Senate bill is S. 2153. The House bill is H.R. 4105.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  