-- Congress Party Rout in India Risks Economy-Overhaul Agenda as Gandhi Flops
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-03-07T03:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/congress-poll-rout-in-india-risks-economy-as-gandhi-flops-again.html
India ’s ruling Congress party was
routed in regional elections, a defeat that shattered claims by
its chief campaigner  Rahul Gandhi  to have rebuilt support and
endangers the government’s agenda to boost a flagging economy.  Gandhi, 41, touted to replace his mother as  Congress  chief
this year, took responsibility for the party’s performance in
India’s most populous state of Uttar Pradesh where it was set to
win 7 percent of seats. An unexpected loss in Punjab underscored
how Congress is struggling to escape blame for  rising prices  and
alleged corruption two years before a national ballot.  “I have campaigned for the party, I was standing at the
front, so I accept responsibility,” Gandhi, the scion of a
dynasty that has dominated Indian politics since independence,
said outside his family home in  New Delhi  yesterday as he vowed
to continue working to build Congress. “I expect to have
victories along the way and I expect to have defeats. This is
one of the defeats, so I take it in my stride.”  The poll verdict reduces the chances of the Congress-led
government attempting to push through controversial policy
changes, including allowing foreign companies to set up
supermarkets, according to analysts at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
An anti-corruption bill first proposed in parliament in 1967 and
opposed by many politicians may be another victim.  “The results will not provide the political space for the
government or give it the confidence to carry through unpopular
reforms,” Goldman analysts led by Tushar Poddar in Mumbai said
in a note to investors yesterday. “The best that can be hoped
for is muddle-through policies by the government.”  Retail Plans  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Congress endured one of the
most challenging periods of his eight-year premiership last year
as graft scandals and clashes with parliamentary partners
stalled legislation. Plans to allow foreign companies such as
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to open supermarkets were among those
shelved.  In an interview in December, Singh said he would bid to
revive the retail proposals after the state elections. Small
shop owners and some political parties say the plan will lead to
the loss of millions of jobs.  Business leaders have called on Singh to accelerate policy
changes as growth moderates.  India’s economy  grew 6.1 percent in
the last quarter, the slowest pace in more than two years, as
domestic demand weakened and the global recovery faltered.
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  will announce the federal
budget March 16.  ‘Terrible Result’  After more than three months of intensive campaigning in
Uttar Pradesh, Gandhi was looking to revive the Congress vote to
rebuild morale in the party. Instead the losses in  Uttar Pradesh 
and Punjab show Congress is struggling to counter the rise of
regional parties ahead of the 2014 poll.  “This is a terrible result for Congress,” said Surjit Singh Bhalla, chairman of New Delhi-based Oxus Fund Management.
“This is clear punishment for its failure to govern.”  Elections in 2010 in Bihar, India’s third populous state,
also exposed the limits of Gandhi’s ability to draw votes. The
party only managed to secure four seats in the local assembly.  In the elections in Uttar Pradesh, home to 200 million
people, the regional Samajwadi Party won an outright majority in
the 403-member assembly, according to data from the  Election
Commission . Congress won 28 seats, just six more than it secured
in 2007, and won’t play any role in forming the next
administration.  Free Laptops  The Samajwadi Party led by former wrestler, Mulayam Singh Yadav, 72, has traditionally been supported by those at the
lower end of the country’s traditional Hindu caste hierarchy and
Muslims. He has been elected chief minister of Uttar Pradesh
three times and is a former federal defense minister.  The Samajwadi Party, which before a general election in
2009 vowed to reduce the use of English in education and protect
jobs threatened by computers, promised free laptops for students
and loans to farmers in its manifesto. The party is opposed to
overseas investment in the retail sector.  In other elections, Congress narrowly beat its main
nationwide rival, the  Bharatiya Janata Party , in the northern
state of Uttarakhand. While it retained power in tiny Manipur,
the BJP ousted Congress in the tourist state of Goa.  In what is the most important ballot since the general
election nearly three years ago, the result in Uttar Pradesh is
a significant setback for Congress.  It was also a personal defeat for Gandhi, who had been
supported by his mother, Congress President  Sonia Gandhi , and
sister Priyanka during an intense three-month campaign.  New York-based Eurasia Group said last year that it expects
Gandhi to become the party’s next leader in 2012.  Yesterday’s results leave “Rahul Gandhi very precariously
placed,” said Bhalla. “He has been completely ineffective, he
just has not been able to carry the voters.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  