-- Consumer Bureau ‘Zoning In’’ on Tribal Payday Firms
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-03-06T17:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/cordray-consumer-bureau-zoning-in-on-tribal-payday-firms.html
U.S. Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau Director  Richard Cordray  said his agency is prepared to
use federal authority to crack down on payday lenders who dodge
state laws by affiliating with Native American tribes.  Responding to a question from Colorado Attorney General
John Suthers in Washington today, Cordray said his agency and
the Federal Trade Commission are looking into what they can do
about tribe-based lenders who claim immunity from state laws.  “The FTC is zoning in on this issue and we are as well,”
Cordray said after a speech at a National Association of State
Attorneys General conference. “If there is legitimately a
tribal entity that can oust a state of effective jurisdiction to
enforce laws against that entity, it does not oust the federal
government.”  Sovereign immunity allows  Native American (NAGP)  tribes to run
businesses such as casinos even in states or localities where
gambling is illegal. Some tribes have claimed immunity for
payday lending firms, which consumer groups have accused of
charging usurious  interest rates  to mainly low-income borrowers.  Suthers, the Colorado attorney general, lost a case last
month that stemmed from more than seven years of investigation
and litigation against tribal payday lenders. In the case, which
reached the state supreme court, a judge concluded that lenders
affiliated with the Miami tribe of  Oklahoma  and Santee Sioux
Nation enjoy the same immunity as the tribe itself.  Colorado sought to prove that private companies affiliated
with race car driver Scott Tucker were the de facto lenders.
Rulings that granted sovereign immunity to the tribal lenders
stopped the Suthers from obtaining documents necessary to prove
their case, he said.  Suthers said in an interview that he has given documents on
tribal payday lending to the FTC, the consumer bureau, “and
other” federal agencies.  To contact the reporter on this story: Carter Dougherty in
 Washington  at   cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds43@bloomberg.net . 