-- Wheat Falls Most in Two Weeks on ‘Significant’ U.S. Rainfall; Corn Drops
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-03-06T13:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/corn-drops-from-near-four-month-high-as-u-s-crop-planting-set-to-increase.html
Wheat dropped the most in two weeks
in  Chicago  on speculation precipitation in the U.S. southern
Plains and “significant” rains in the northern Plains will
boost crop prospects. Corn declined.  Rain this week will help plants in  Kansas , the second-
biggest U.S. wheat grower, and in  Oklahoma , Commodity Weather
Group said in an e-mailed report today. About six times the
normal amount of precipitation fell in parts of North Dakota,
the biggest U.S. producer, and in  South Dakota  and Minnesota
last week, National Weather Service data show.  “Our forecast includes the chance for a significant storm
in much of  Texas , Oklahoma and parts of southern Kansas,” the
group said. “This would aid spring growth of winter wheat. The
11- to 15-day period includes another chance for a few showers
in the southwestern Plains, as well as a better opportunity for
needed moisture in  Iowa  and Minnesota.”  Wheat for May delivery slid 1.7 percent to $6.6075 a bushel
by 1:39 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board of Trade. A close
at that price would be the biggest decline since Feb. 21.
Milling wheat for May delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris
fell 1.3 percent to 195.25 euros ($256.64) a metric ton.  “Significant” rain last week will ease concerns about
dryness in eastern South Dakota, southern Minnesota and northern
Iowa, said Joel Burgio, Telvent DTN meteorologist. “The early
call on the spring season would be for mostly favorable moisture
conditions for the crop over eastern areas, but with some
dryness concerns in the west.”  Corn for May delivery dropped 1.2 percent to $6.53 a bushel
in Chicago, declining from the highest level in almost four
months on speculation farmers in the U.S. will boost production.
The grain yesterday reached $6.6525, the highest price for a
most-active contract since Nov. 9.  Corn Inventories  “The corn market is wary that we are expecting quite a
large increase of U.S. production in 2012-13, which will be
associated with sizable U.S. stockpiles,”  Luke Mathews , an
analyst at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , said today by phone
from Sydney. “It has been weighing on the market in the past
couple of months.”  U.S. farmers will plant the most acres since 1944, the
Department of Agriculture said last month. Corn has advanced 1
percent this year, lagging behind a 9.4 percent rally for
soybeans. Rising production will push corn stockpiles to 1.62
billion bushels at the end of 2012-13 from 801 million bushels
in the prior year as demand from ethanol producers slows, the
USDA said.  Soybeans for May delivery slipped 0.3 percent to $13.2125 a
bushel. The oilseed fell yesterday after 10 straight advances.  “Beans are the bullish commodity and probably has the most
transparent fundamentals at the time,” said Jonathan Bouchet, a
trader at Boman Capital SA in Geneva. “The market has still
some space to go up on soybeans, but as always it also depends
on wheat and corn.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 