-- Cows Use More Corn Than Cars as Fuel Need Slows: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-03-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/cows-use-more-corn-than-cars-as-fuel-need-slows-bgov-barometer.html
Animal feed is projected to overtake
fuel as the biggest use for corn because ethanol demand is
slowing while farmers produce a record crop.  The BGOV Barometer shows the proportion of the harvest
going to ethanol in the year ending Aug. 31, 2013, is forecast
to fall to 35 percent of the corn crop from 40 percent this year,
according to U.S. Department of  Agriculture data . Animal feed
will again be the largest use of the grain, after being
overtaken by ethanol in 2011 and 2012, potentially quelling
lawmaker demands to repeal federal biofuel subsidies that they
blame for squeezing corn supplies and pushing up food costs.  “Ethanol growth should slow down, so if we get increased
production, then this will lower the food-versus-fuel debate for
awhile,” Bruce Babcock, an energy economist at  Iowa State
University  in Ames, said in an e-mail.  Ethanol production has increased more than six-fold since
2002, boosted by federal renewable fuel standards and subsidies
now being scrutinized by Congress. Critics including Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, blame federal support of ethanol
for increasing food prices, while supporters counter that
federal subsidies reduce the price of gasoline for consumers.
The rise in corn consumption for biofuels has been accompanied
by higher prices for the grain.  A 45-cent-a-gallon tax credit given to ethanol blenders and
a 54-cent-per-gallon tariff on imports of the fuel expired at
the end of last year, while ethanol stockpiles are at record
levels. Federal requirements for ethanol use are increasing at a
slower pace and are set to peak at 15 billion gallons in 2015,
according to the  Renewable Fuels Association  in  Washington .
Production in 2011 was 13.9 billion gallons.  That requirement may still pressure corn prices should
production, and thus inventories, be less than expected, said
Gary Blumenthal, chief executive officer of World Perspectives
Inc., an agriculture consultant in Washington, in an e-mail.
“The food-versus-fuel debate will always be present so long as
ethanol has a policy mandate and corn ending stocks are
relatively tight,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  