-- Criminal Libor Probe of Banks Is Under Way, U.S. Tells Judge
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-07T06:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/criminal-libor-probe-is-confirmed-by-justice-department-in-letter-to-judge.html
A criminal investigation into
suspected manipulation of benchmark  interest rates  is being
conducted by the U.S. government, the Justice Department said in
a letter to a federal judge.  The Feb. 27 letter to U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in Manhattan was made public yesterday and is the first
public acknowledgment by the Justice Department of the criminal
investigation of benchmark lending rates such as the London
interbank offered rate, known as Libor.  Buchwald cited the letter at a March 1 hearing in which she
denied a request for documents related to the investigation by
investors suing  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Bank of America Corp. 
and other companies over claims they artificially suppressed
Libor.  “The Department of Justice is conducting a criminal
investigation into alleged manipulation of certain benchmark
interest rates,” including those for “several currencies” on
the Libor exchange, according to the letter signed by lawyers
from the fraud section of the  Justice Department ’s criminal
division and its antitrust division.  Bill Halldin , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the letter. Steven Vames, a Credit Suisse spokesman,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment yesterday
after regular business hours.  Regulators worldwide are investigating whether banks
attempted to manipulate Libor and the Tokyo and euro interbank
offered rates, known as Tibor and Euribor.  Alleged Conspiracy  Buchwald is presiding over multidistrict litigation
involving 21 class-action, or group, lawsuits against banks
accused of conspiring to artificially suppress Libor by
understating their borrowing costs to the British Bankers’
Association.  In a Feb. 17 letter to Buchwald, the defendant banks
objected to the plaintiffs’ demand for documents already given
the Justice Department.  “Plaintiffs have demanded discovery to help them draft
their consolidated complaints,” said lawyers for Bank of
America, Credit Suisse,  Barclays Bank Plc (BARC) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,  Norinchukin Bank (NORZ) 
and  Royal Bank of Canada . The Justice Department letter doesn’t
identify the banks that received subpoenas.  The banks said turning over such evidence to plaintiffs
would impose a “substantial burden” because they are already
complying with requests from “U.S. and foreign government
authorities.”  U.S. Request  In the government’s letter to Buchwald, the Justice
Department’s lawyers asked that they be allowed input on “the
timing and scope of discovery.” They said they may submit
papers to the judge alone “to protect the confidentiality of
details of the investigation.”  Buchwald denied the investors’ request for documents in a
ruling from the bench on March 1.  “To me, it is simply too much to have them piggyback on
the government’s investigation at this stage,” Buchwald said.  The case is In re: LIBOR-Based Financial Instruments
Antitrust Litigation, 11-MD-2262,  Southern District of New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  