-- Oil in New York Drops on Growth Concern as Euro-Region Economy Contracts
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-03-06T12:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/crude-oil-in-new-york-drops-on-economic-growth-concern-stronger-dollar.html
Crude futures dropped in  New York 
amid concern that slowing global growth will curb fuel demand
after Europe’s economy contracted in the fourth quarter.  Oil slipped and the euro declined following a report that
the region’s gross domestic product shrank last quarter as
investment dropped by the most since 2009, adding to signs the
debt crisis is hampering growth. Australian policy makers said
the world economy will rise this year at a pace trailing its
longer-term trend. South Korea’s finance ministry said higher
oil prices are making the nation’s economic outlook uncertain.  “The euro is having a damping impact on commodities,” Ole Hansen, a senior manager of trading advisory at Saxo Bank A/S,
said by phone from Copenhagen. The currency dropped as much as
0.7 percent today to $1.31. “There are still worries about a
disorderly default in  Greece . We have a crisis that is not
solved,” Hansen said.  Crude for April delivery declined as much as 0.9 percent,
or 91 cents, to $105.81 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $106.22 as of 12:42 p.m.
London time. The contract added 2 cents yesterday to $106.72,
the highest settlement since March 1. Prices fell last week for
the first time in four weeks, reducing their gain this year to
7.3 percent.  Brent oil for April settlement on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London was at $123.20 a barrel, down 60 cents. The
European benchmark’s premium to West Texas Intermediate futures
was at $16.98 a barrel, versus a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  GDP Shrinks  Euro-area GDP shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter from
the previous three months as exports and household spending
declined, the European Union’s statistics office said today. The
 European Central Bank  will keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low 1 percent when it meets on March 8, a Bloomberg
survey showed.  China , the world’s largest commodities consumer, yesterday
cut its economic growth target to 7.5 percent from an 8 percent
level in place since 2005.  “The Chinese growth outlook is weighing on  oil prices 
along with the euro and a commodity wide sell-off,” said Tony Machacek, a London-based Bache Commodities Ltd. broker.  Oil earlier gained as much as 0.6 percent after Israel’s
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said in a speech in  Washington 
yesterday that economic sanctions on Iran haven’t led the
country to curtail its nuclear program, and Israel must be able
to defend itself against a threat to its existence.  Diplomatic Solution  In a meeting at the White House, U.S. President  Barack Obama  told Netanyahu “there is still a window” for a
diplomatic solution to the confrontation, while “all options”
are available to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran.  Iran is the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, which pumps about 40 percent of
the world’s crude. The Gulf state’s military capabilities have
grown and the government would retaliate in kind against an
Israeli attack, Tehran-based Press TV reported.  U.S. crude stockpiles rose 1.5 million barrels last week,
according to the median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News before an Energy Department report tomorrow.
Gasoline stockpiles fell  2 million barrels  and distillate-fuel
supplies, a category that includes heating oil and diesel,
dropped 1.8 million barrels, the survey showed.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release its own stockpile data in Washington today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  