-- Default Swaps in U.S. Rise to Highest Level in Almost Two Weeks
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-06T22:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/default-swaps-in-u-s-rise-to-highest-level-in-almost-two-weeks.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. credit
risk climbed to the highest in almost two weeks as  Europe ’s
economy contracted in the fourth quarter, stoking investor
concern that the pace of global economic growth may falter.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 2.6 basis points to a mid-price of 97.9 basis points
at 5:15 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. The
measure rose as high as 98.3, the most since Feb. 22 on an
intraday basis.  The gauge, which typically increases as investor confidence
deteriorates, climbed for a third straight day as the European
Union’s statistics office said gross domestic product shrank 0.3
percent from the third quarter, confirming an estimate published
Feb. 15. Investors weighed  Greece ’s chances of persuading
creditors to agree to a bond swap under its private-sector
involvement plan.  “There are still multiple hurdles and milestones we need
to get through, which will happen over months and quarters if
not well over a year before Europe is completely settled,”
 David Brown , a  money manager  who helps oversee $88 billion of
fixed-income assets at  Neuberger Berman  in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Radian Swaps Jump  The cost to protect debt issued by insurers from Radian
Group Inc. to Prudential Financial Inc. rose after a report that
the  Federal Housing Administration  will lower mortgage insurance
premiums for borrowers who refinance their loans.  Credit-default swaps on Philadelphia-based Radian jumped
3.8 percentage points to 36.6 percent upfront, and contracts on
 Red Bank , New Jersey-based Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. surged 2.2
to 48.4 percent as of 5 p.m. in New York, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  President  Barack Obama  said he would reduce refinancing
fees at a White House news conference today. The FHA will
decrease up-front premiums to 0.01 percent from 1 percent under
the plan. Annual fees will decline to 0.55 percent from 1.15
percent for borrowers with FHA loans made before June 1, 2009,
according to a fact sheet distributed by the Obama
administration.  Prudential, MetLife  Private mortgage insurers such as Radian compete against
the FHA, providing coverage on loans when borrowers make down
payments of less than 20 percent. Credit-default swaps tied to
Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer, jumped 16.3
basis points to 185 basis points, and those on MetLife Inc.
added 18.5 to 235, the data show.  The streamlined refinance program is available to borrowers
with FHA-insured loans who are current on their payments even if
they owe more than their homes are worth. The program doesn’t
require verification of income and employment, and it doesn’t
mandate a new appraisal of the property.  Contracts tied to Lincoln National Corp. added 21.2 basis
points to 247.8, and those on Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. increased 22.1 basis points to 251.4, the data show.  Debt Sales  Companies sold at least $24.8 billion of bonds in the U.S.
yesterday, the busiest day in almost a year, with investment-
grade yields at about record lows. The supply and a lack of
support from dealers are weakening the secondary market,
according to  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income strategist at GMP
Securities LLC in  New York .  “Stress is beginning to show,” he said. “Even though
there’s demand for it, there’s always a balance between demand
and price valuations.”  The U.S. two-year interest-rate  swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, widened 1.65 basis points to 27.40
basis points. The measure rises when investors seek the
perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows when they
favor assets such as corporate bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  