-- Discovery Labs Wins Approval for Drug to Ease Baby Breathing
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-06T21:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/discovery-labs-wins-approval-for-drug-to-ease-baby-breathing-1-.html
Discovery Laboratories Inc. (DSCO)  won
approval for its treatment to prevent respiratory distress in
high-risk premature infants on its fifth try to get the drug on
the market. The shares gained in late trading.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the Warrington,
Pennsylvania-based company’s leading product, Discovery
Laboratories said in a statement today. The company said it
expects the drug, Surfaxin, will be commercially available in
the U.S. in late 2012.  Discovery Labs first filed for approval in 2004 and was
most recently rejected in 2009. The FDA said the company
couldn’t verify that Surfaxin used in clinical trials worked the
same as the commercial version according to a  statement  from
Discovery Labs.  “This is a significant milestone in our continuing efforts
to develop a pipeline of products to further advance the
standard of respiratory critical care,” W. Thomas Amick,
chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Discovery
Labs, said in the statement.  When the agency previously rejected the drug, the FDA
disagreed with Discovery Labs method for testing the quality and
stability of Surfaxin in clinical trials and asked them to use
the agency’s preferred method on the currently manufactured
drug, Michael Parks, a spokesman, said in a telephone interview.
The agency said Discovery Labs responded to regulators’ concerns
in September.  Discovery Laboratories jumped 33 percent to $5 at 4:41 p.m
New York time in extended trading after U.S. markets closed.  Abbott Competitor  The medicine will compete with  Abbott Park , Illinois-based
 Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ Survanta.  Respiratory distress in infants whose lungs haven’t fully
developed is caused in part by the lack of a substance called
surfactant that helps the lungs inflate with air, according to
the  National Institutes of Health  in Bethesda,  Maryland . Most
cases of the potentially fatal condition are in babies born
before 28 weeks of a 40-week term. Surfaxin is a synthetic
version of the substance.  More than 500,000 babies are born premature, or before 37
weeks, each year, according to the March of Dimes, a  White
Plains , New York-based charity. About 10 percent are born
between 28 and 31 weeks of gestation.  Surfaxin did not significantly differ from Abbott’s
Survanta at reducing respiratory distress 24 hours after birth,
though it did reduce mortality rates at 14 days of life compared
to the Abbott drug, according to a clinical trial published in a
2005 edition of the journal  Pediatrics .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  