-- Dish Stock Shows Ergen’s Mobile Network Seen as Bluff
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-07T14:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/dish-stock-price-shows-bets-that-ergen-s-wireless-network-may-be-a-bluff.html
(Corrects location of Alpine in 19th paragraph of story
that first ran March 6.)  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  Chairman Charlie Ergen, a former Las Vegas card-player, says he’s prepared to
build a wireless-Internet network from the ground up. The
company’s stock shows  investors  are betting that it’s a bluff.  Ergen’s moves are being watched by investors because of the
effect on the U.S. communications industry. If he decides to
build a new national network with spectrum licenses he’s buying,
Dish would create more competition for a wireless industry
dominated by  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T Inc. If he instead sells
the airwaves, he may enhance the power of the top players by
giving them more capacity to add customers and services.  Dish’s rising share price is evidence that investors think
Ergen won’t commit Dish to the cost, time and regulatory hurdles
of building a network, said  Craig Moffett , a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York, who rates the stock
“market perform.” Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite TV
provider, has increased about 27 percent in the past 12 months.  “If Dish came forward and confirmed tomorrow they’re about
to start doing something strategically grand -- building a
wireless network -- the stock would plummet,” Moffett said.  Ergen is buying about $3 billion in airwaves that the
government has designated for sending data from satellites and
has said he wants to instead use that spectrum to transmit
between ground-based towers -- a potentially more profitable
business model. While the Federal Communications Commission
approved Dish’s purchase on March 2, the agency said the company
wouldn’t be immediately allowed to repurpose the spectrum.  ‘Lots of Options’  The FCC said it would rather take the time to rewrite rules
governing the spectrum first, a process that may take a year,
said Bryan Kraft, an Evercore Partners Inc. analyst in  New York .
Spending billions of dollars on a wireless network would hurt
share buybacks and the value of the company, Moffett said.  Tom Eagan, an analyst at Collins Stewart LLC in New York,
estimated that a national wireless build-out would cost $6
billion, a far cry from the $250 million cost for satellites.  Ergen said during Dish’s fourth-quarter conference call on
Feb. 23 that if the FCC delayed his plans, he’d consider “all
alternatives” for the future of the company and the spectrum,
which is being acquired from DBSD North America Inc. and
TerreStar Networks Inc. in deals totaling $3 billion. The shares
jumped as much as 4.6 percent the day of Ergen’s comments.  “He has an asset that he will figure out how to
monetize,” said  Marci Ryvicker , a Wells Fargo & Co. analyst in
New York, who has an “outperform” stock rating. “Dish has a
lot of options -- partnering, selling the spectrum, selling the
company -- I wouldn’t hold  Charlie Ergen  to anything specific.”  Negotiating Tactic  Dish had asked the FCC for waivers to let it offer service
with handsets that use ground-based signals only and don’t
communicate directly with satellites, an exemption to rules
governing those airwaves. The waiver would have raised the value
of the airwaves beyond the prices being paid by Dish, Eagan
said.  “It serves him right to say he’s willing to build a
network even if he’s not,” said  Paul Sweeney , a media and
Internet analyst with Bloomberg Industries. “It’s a negotiating
tactic. He’s saying he’s willing and able to build the network
to provide maximum value for the spectrum.”  The FCC said Dish must wait as the agency writes new rules
so the airwaves are permanently approved for high-traffic
ground-based networks in a way that will “maximize the long-
term value of the spectrum for the American economy,” according
to an e-mailed statement from Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman.  Going It Alone  “Since Dish hasn’t planned to begin investing capital into
a wireless network now, the FCC didn’t have a compelling reason
to grant a waiver, which could be viewed as providing a windfall
to Dish,”  James Ratcliffe , a Barclays Capital Inc. analyst in
New York, said in a note to clients.  Dish is “disappointed” because the FCC’s decision delays
introduction of “new mobile broadband competition”  Aaron
Johnson , a spokesman for the Englewood, Colorado-based company,
said in a statement last week. He didn’t elaborate on the
network plans other than to say Dish would complete the DBSD and
TerreStar airwaves acquisitions as soon as possible. A separate
company spokesman, Marc Lumpkin, declined to comment further
yesterday.  “Obviously we are prepared to go it alone in the
business,” Ergen told investors on the conference call before
the FCC’s decision. “We begged people to build satellites for
us, and nobody would, so we had to do it ourselves.”  Chances of Acquisition  Dish rose 0.5 percent to $29.54 at the 4 p.m. close of New
York trading. In the past 12 months, Dish has outpaced  DirecTV (DTV) ’s
0.2 percent gain and a 2.5 percent jump in the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index. (SPX)   While Dish’s  net income  rose 54 percent in 2011 to $1.52
billion, the company’s net customers fell by 166,000 while
DirecTV’s gained 662,000 U.S. subscribers. Dish’s future can’t
be as a standalone satellite-TV company, Ergen said on the call.
“No customer wants just fixed video,” he said.  Finding a way to offer a fast Internet connection bundled
with satellite TV is essential for Dish to compete against cable
and telecommunications companies, said  Michael McCormack , an
analyst at Nomura Securities Inc. in New York, who has a
“neutral” rating on Dish shares.  McCormack dismissed speculation that Dish is an acquisition
target for  AT&T. (T)  Alpine  Mutual Funds , a Purchase, New York-based
investment firm, said Dish could be valued as high as $50 a
share in a takeover. That would be a $22.4 billion price tag, a
risk AT&T probably wouldn’t take after losing its effort to get
antitrust approval for a purchase of  T-Mobile USA , McCormack
said.  Big Bluff  Dish has begun offering broadband satellite bundled with
video service through a partnership with Carlsbad, California-
based  ViaSat Inc. (VSAT) , giving customers speeds of as much as 12
megabits per second. Those speeds are “a great alternative”
for the millions of Americans that live in rural areas, said
Dish Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton, “but it’s not
going to be as good as fiber to the curb.”  The company would prefer to pair its spectrum with a
company that has an existing national wireless network, Clayton
said in a December interview.  “Economically, building out a network doesn’t make
sense,” McCormack said.  If Ergen is truly playing poker with his words, following
through on his public statements and actually building a network
might be his biggest surprise, Moffett said.  “I’m in the minority,” Moffett said. “Everyone thinks
he’s bluffing. I’m not so sure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  