-- Dodd-Frank Rules Slow at SEC After Cost Challenge
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/dodd-frank-rules-slow-at-sec-after-court-cost-benefit-challenge.html
Less than halfway through the
process of implementing the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, the pace of
rule-writing by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has
slowed by about half.  The agency’s five commissioners haven’t met once in the
last four months to approve or propose regulations required
under Dodd-Frank, designed to curb the kind of risky practices
that fueled the 2008 financial crisis.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  acknowledged the slowdown,
describing it as a “natural lull” after an initial gush of
proposals.  “It’s easier to propose rules than it is to adopt them,”
Schapiro told reporters in Washington last month, particularly
after a court rejected one agency rule over its costs.  The rule-making holdup is extending a period of uncertainty
for affected firms -- some welcome the delay of unwelcome
regulations, others would prefer clarity.  Tom Quaadman, vice president of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce’s Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, described
the law as imposing “impossible deadlines.”  “They’ve given them a 2,400-page piece of legislation that
really directs the regulators to do all the hard work,”
Quaadman said.  Among the rules in limbo are the so-called Volcker rule to
ban banks’ proprietary trading, restrictions on asset-backed
securities deals, and forcing firms to disclose whether
manufacturing metals were mined in war-ravaged parts of  Africa .  Financial Revamp  Enacted in 2010, Dodd-Frank requires U.S. regulators to
write hundreds of new rules to revamp how the financial sector
does business, and more of those rules were assigned to the SEC
than any other agency.  In the first year after the law’s passage, the agency voted
to approve 108 proposals, adoptions and rule concept releases,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, most of them related to
Dodd-Frank. That’s an average of nine per month.  Since the law’s one-year anniversary July 21, the register
has recorded only 39 rulemaking SEC votes, or about 5.3 a month,
the data show.  Much of the recent activity has taken place behind closed
doors, adding to the appearance of a slowdown. Since Oct. 26,
the agency has adopted only nine rules and did so without
holding a single public meeting, conducting the votes by paper
ballot.  Schapiro offered several explanations for the SEC’s slower
pace, including the complexity and high volume of public
comments on recent rules, and the fact that a new commissioner
joined the five-person panel last November.  Rule Rejected  The most important factor cited both by Schapiro and agency
observers, however, is legal. Last July, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  rejected an SEC rule that would have made it easier for
shareholders to insert board candidates onto public-company
ballots, saying the agency failed to adequately assess the
costs.  The rejection of the so-called proxy access rule made all
future SEC rules vulnerable to a similar challenge, forcing
Schapiro and her agency to redouble efforts to study cost-
benefit effects.  “We are clearly taking more time on cost-benefit
analysis,” Schapiro said.  The court decision was “like sticking a two-by-four in the
spokes” of SEC rulemaking, said Lynn E. Turner, a former chief
accountant at the agency who is now managing director of
Litinomics Inc., an economic and legal consulting firm. “I
think it’s going to get worse, not better.”  Congress may exacerbate the problem, he noted: A House
committee recently approved a bill that would demand a more
rigorous cost-benefit justification for each rule.  Two Votes  The SEC -- like other U.S. agencies -- uses a two-step
process for writing and approving rules. The first stage is to
issue a proposal and then invite public comments; the second
stage is to adopt the final version. The commission votes on
both stages.  So far the agency has proposed about 75 percent of its
Dodd-Frank rules, and completed about 20 percent of them.  “We are currently reviewing thousands of comments from
some of the proposals we issued to ensure that we get the final
rules right,” said  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, in a
statement.  Over the same timeframe, another agency working to
implement Dodd-Frank, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
has managed to accelerate its rulemaking. According to the
Federal Register, the CFTC proposed or adopted about seven rules
a month in the first year after Dodd-Frank and 10.2 per month
since then. Though both agencies are focusing on Dodd-Frank
work, including some joint rules, the rulemaking isn’t always
comparable.  Financial Crisis  Some of the SEC’s delayed rules strike at the roots of the
2008 crisis. One example is a rule that would ban firms from
designing asset-backed securities deals that put their interests
in conflict with investors. The SEC didn’t propose the rule
until September, five months after the law said it should be
adopted. The proposal’s comment period was extended twice; the
commission has yet to schedule a final vote.  Other rules are being drafted and revised in coordination
with other regulators, complicating the process further. Those
include the so-called Volcker rule to ban proprietary trading at
banks, the risk-retention rule forcing lenders to keep a stake
in loans they bundle and several rules defining new swaps market
oversight.  Conflict Minerals  Among SEC-only measures delayed by the slowdown is a Dodd-
Frank rule requiring companies to trace the origins of metals
linked to violence in central Africa.  “It is critically important the SEC quickly finalize the
rule,” U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy of  Vermont  and six other
Democratic lawmakers wrote to Schapiro on Feb. 16. With a rule
in place, “the smuggling that has emerged will become less
economically viable, and the people of central Africa will
benefit from further reduced violence and increased economic
opportunities.”  The SEC is now almost a year past the congressional
statutory deadline for a similar rule to require oil, gas and
mining companies to disclose payments to foreign governments for
access to resources, said Ian Gary, a senior policy manager at
Oxfam America, the humanitarian group’s U.S. arm.  Every year of delay “is another year that people go hungry
and have a lack of education and schools because oil and mining
revenues aren’t being used properly,” Gary said.  The regulator is also working on assigning broker-dealers a
new standard for dealing with retail clients -- a fiduciary duty
to parallel the standard that investment advisers work under.  In April, that rule was moved from the agency’s Dodd-Frank
working calendar to a catch-all category: “Dates still to be
determined.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  