-- Dollar-Yen Option Volatility to Increase, Bank of America’s Hopkinson Says
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-06T22:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/dollar-yen-option-volatility-to-increase-bank-of-america-s-hopkinson-says.html
Option volatility on dollar-yen is
the most likely to rise amid historically low bets on swings in
exchange rates, according to Bank of America Corp.  Implied volatility for dollar-yen options will increase if
the Japanese currency gains in a negative risk environment or if
it continues its 4.9 percent year-to-date decline, according to
John Hopkinson, head of quantitative foreign-exchange research
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New York . Currency
volatility will remain depressed in 2012 as concern over a
disorderly default in Greece dissipates and central banks
maintain accommodative monetary policies, he forecasts.  “The one exception to our general outlook is that dollar-
yen volatility defiantly has room to increase,” Hopkinson said
in an interview at Bank of America’s headquarters in New York on
March 5. “It’s hard to see dollar-yen volatility going lower
regardless of where the spot goes.”  Three-month implied volatility on dollar-yen options has
more room to rise after climbing to 10.125 percent from a more
than four-year low of 7.505 percent on Jan. 11, he said.  Bank of America forecasts the yen will weaken to 81 per
dollar by June and slump to 82 by the end of the year. The
Japanese currency gained 0.8 percent to 80.89 per dollar in New
York yesterday.  The premium on dollar calls, which grant the right to buy
the currency, relative to puts, which give the right to sell,
fell to the lowest in more than a month yesterday. The so-called
three-month risk reversal rate touched 0.09 percent, compared to
a record high of 0.53 percent reached on Feb. 20.  Implied volatility, a gauge of traders’ expectations for
price swings, increases as demand for options rises. Traders
quote implied volatility as part of pricing options.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  