-- Donald Payne, N.J.’s First Black Congressman, Dies at 77 of Colon Cancer
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-03-06T21:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/donald-payne-n-j-s-first-black-congressman-dies-at-77-after-cancer-bout.html
Donald Payne,  New Jersey ’s first and
so far only black congressman and a leading advocate for
democracy in Africa during 23 years in the U.S. House of
Representatives, has died. He was 77.  He died today at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston,
New Jersey, of complications from colon cancer, his office said.  The senior member of New Jersey’s House delegation, Payne
represented the 10th congressional district, which includes
parts of Newark, Jersey City and Elizabeth, the state’s urban
core across the Hudson River from  New York City , as well as
suburbs including Maplewood and Millburn. He was a longtime
member of House committees that oversee education and foreign
affairs, and a former chairman of the foreign affairs
subcommittee on Africa.  President  Barack Obama , speaking at the end of a White
House news conference, said Payne “was a wonderful man who did
great work both domestically and internationally.”  In New Jersey, Republican Governor  Chris Christie  planned
to order flags lowered in honor of Payne, according to his
spokesman,  Michael Drewniak .  “He was a great role model for every person in New Jersey
who aspires to public service,” Christie said in a statement.
“He was a true gentleman and we considered him a friend.”  On one of his many trips to the African continent, a 2009
visit to Somalia after a U.S. advisory against Americans
visiting there, Payne narrowly escaped a mortar attack in the
capital, Mogadishu. Islamist insurgents took responsibility for
the attack on the Mogadishu airport as Payne was leaving.  Trip With Clinton  An earlier trip to  Africa  was a 12-day tour with President
 Bill Clinton  in 1998 to  Ghana ,  Uganda ,  Rwanda ,  South Africa ,
 Botswana  and Senegal. Upon his return, Payne told the  Associated
Press  that he hoped the coverage of the trip would give
Americans a new awareness and appreciation of African countries
that were making strides toward democracy.  “The only images during the past decade have been those of
strife, disease, conflict, dictators, children starving,” he
said. “So for the first time, America had an opportunity to see
a balanced picture of Africa.”  In 2004, Congress passed a  resolution  introduced by Payne
describing the killings in the Darfur region of  Sudan  as
“genocide,” the first time Congress had applied the term to an
ongoing massacre, the New Yorker magazine reported.  Payne was a former chairman of the  Congressional Black
Caucus , and he led the group’s nonprofit foundation.  ‘Earned Respect’  House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi said the congressman
“earned respect around the world for his outspoken advocacy on
behalf of human rights and the worth and dignity of every
person,” according to a statement released by her office.  Payne faced little competition in his strongly Democratic
district, winning his last general election, in 2010, with 85
percent of the vote.  Those seeking to run for the seat left vacant by Payne’s
death must register to run in the state’s primary election by
the April 2 deadline, according to New Jersey’s Division of
Elections. The primary is scheduled for June 5.  Donald Milford Payne was born on July 16, 1934, in  Newark 
to William Evander Payne and the former Norma Garrett, according
to “Black Americans in Congress,” a House  publication .  They lived in the Doodletown neighborhood of the city’s
predominantly Italian-American North Ward, according to a 1988
New York Times story. His father worked as a chauffeur for
families in East Orange and as a lumber handler for Weyerhaeuser
on the waterfront.  ‘Sense of Neighborhood’  “Everyone, whites and blacks, worked for low wages,
although we didn’t think of it as living in poverty, and there
was a real sense of neighborhood, of depending on one another,”
he told the Times.  Payne earned a bachelor’s degree from  Seton Hall University 
in neighboring South Orange in 1957 and married the former Hazel
Johnson in 1958, according to the House publication. She died in
1963.  He worked as a public-school teacher, an executive at
Prudential Insurance Co. and vice president of Urban Data
Systems Inc., both based in Newark. The latter company, where he
was employed when he was elected to Congress, was started by his
brother, William, and made computer forms, according to the
Times.  From 1970 to 1973 he  served  as the first black president of
the National Council of YMCAs, and he was a member of the Essex
County Board of Chosen Freeholders from 1972 to 1978. From 1973
to 1981 he was chairman of the World YMCA Refugee and
Rehabilitation Committee, a job that took him to 80 countries,
according to the Times. He served on Newark’s city council from
1982 to 1988.  Challenged Rodino  In 1980 and 1986, Payne waged unsuccessful primary
challenges to Newark’s longtime Democratic congressman, Peter Rodino. Known nationally as chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee’s impeachment proceedings against President  Richard
Nixon , Rodino retired in 1988.  Payne  ran for the seat that year
and  won .  “Nothing is as powerful as a dream whose time has come,”
he told the Times after the election.  Payne and his wife had three children including Donald M. Payne Jr.,  president  of the Newark Municipal Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  