-- Case Against Case Against Rush Limbaugh: Michael Kinsley
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-03-06T00:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/the-case-against-the-case-against-limbaugh-commentary-by-michael-kinsley.html
The people who want to drive  Rush Limbaugh  off the air are not assuaged or persuaded by  his
apology  over the weekend. They say he was not sincere: He only
apologized, for calling a Georgetown University law student a
“slut” and a “prostitute,” because of pressure from advertisers.  Well, of course he wasn’t sincere. And of course he was
only apologizing to pacify advertisers -- who were getting
pressured to pressure Limbaugh by these very critics. Oh, there
might have been a political calculation, too, that he’d gone too
far for the good of his ratings or his celebrityhood. But any
apology induced in these circumstances is almost by definition
insincere. You can’t demand a public recantation and then expect
sincerity along with the humble pie. If they wanted a sincere
apology, Limbaugh’s critics would have had to defend his right
to make these offensive remarks, and then attempt to change his
mind using nothing but sweet reason. Go ahead and try.  These  umbrage episodes  that have become the principal
narrative line of our politics are orgies of insincerity. Pols
declare that they are distraught, offended, outraged by some
stray remark by a political opponent, or judicial nominee, or
radio talk-show host. They demand apology, firing, crucifixion.
The target resists for a few days, then caves in and steps down
or apologizes. Occasionally they survive, as Limbaugh probably
will, but wounded and more careful from now on.  More careful means less interesting. Limbaugh is under no
obligation to keep saying offensive things just to keep me
entertained. Still, it’s a pity.  Sadness or Euphoria  Of course, the insincerity is on both sides. The pursuers
all pretend to be horrified and “saddened” by this unexpected
turn of events. In fact, they are delighted. Why not? Their
opponent has committed the cardinal political sin: a gaffe.  A gaffe, as  someone once said , is when a politician tells
the truth. This is a bit imprecise. The term “politician” covers
any political actor, certainly including Rush. And the
troublesome statement needn’t be the truth, as it certainly
wasn’t in this case: more like “the truth about what he or she
is really thinking.” The typical gaffe is what they used to call
a “ Freudian slip .” But, with all due respect to Freud, why
should something a politician says by accident -- and soon
wishes he or she never said, whether true or not --
automatically be taken as a better sign of his or her real
thinking than something he or she says on purpose?  People have the right not to buy a product or service they
don’t wish to buy (except, of course, health insurance, but
that’s  another story ). Limbaugh’s advertisers are free to
transfer their loyalty to  Glenn Beck  if they wish, and
Limbaugh’s critics are free to deny themselves the rapturous
comforts of Sleep Number beds.  Nevertheless, the self-righteous parade out the door by
Limbaugh’s advertisers is hard to stomach. Had they never
listened to Rush before, in all the years they had been paying
for commercials on his show? His sliming of a barely known law
student may be a new low -- even after  what  he’s  said  about
 Nancy Pelosi  and  Michelle Obama  -- but it’s not a huge gap. “We
hope that our action,”  said  David Friend, the chief executive of
a company called Carbonite, “will ultimately contribute to a
more civilized public discourse,” as the company withdrew its
ads. Ultimately! Where was this hope for “civilized discourse” a
week ago?  Enough Is Enough  Consumers who are avoiding products by Limbaugh’s
advertisers are engaged, whether they know it or not, in what’s
known in labor law as a secondary boycott. This means boycotting
a company you have no grievance with, except that it does
business with someone you do have a grievance with. Secondary
boycotts are generally frowned upon, or in some cases (not this
one) actually illegal, on the grounds that enough is enough.
There’s sense to that outside the labor context, too. Do we want
conservatives organizing boycotts of advertisers on  MSNBC , or
either side boycotting companies that do business with other
companies who advertise on Limbaugh’s show, or  Rachel Maddow ’s?  As we all know, Limbaugh’s First Amendment rights aren’t
involved here -- freedom of speech means freedom from
interference by the government. But the spirit of the First
Amendment, which is that suppressing speech is bad, still
applies. If you don’t care for something Rush Limbaugh has said,
say why and say it better. If you’re on the side of truth, you
have a natural advantage. And if you’re taking on Rush Limbaugh,
you’re probably on the side of truth.  (Michael Kinsley is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Michael Kinsley  at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 