-- Greening Weighs Maximizing Heathrow Capacity With BAA After New Runway Ban
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-03-06T14:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/heathrow-managers-to-discuss-capacity-with-greening-after-expansion-banned.html
U.K. Transport Secretary Justine Greening will meet with managers from  London Heathrow airport 
and its airline customers to discuss ways of maximizing capacity
at a hub where the government has blocked expansion.  Greening will meet with the Heathrow Leadership Group to
explore possible “short-term solutions” to capacity constraints,
she said last night in a speech in London to members of the U.K.
Airport Operators’ Association. The HLG meets once a month and 
is headed by Colin Matthews, chief executive officer of Heathrow
owner BAA Ltd., according to the airport’s website.  The government will also call for testimony on ways that
the U.K. can maintain its air-hub status, Greening said. BAA and
British Airways, Heathrow’s biggest user and also represented on
the HLG, favor development of the existing airport with the
addition of a third runway, something that the government has
said it opposes on environmental grounds.  “We are clear that we must look at what steps we can take
to make the most out of existing capacity and deliver more
capacity in the long term,” Greening said. While she added that
solutions must be “sustainable,” she made no mention of the
moratorium on adding extra runways at  London ’s airports.  The latest initiatives are separate to the government’s
development of a new policy framework for U.K. aviation,
proposals which are due for publication this spring.  Jobs, GDP  Heathrow is  Europe ’s busiest hub, attracting a record 69.4
million passengers last year and handling 476,197 flights, or
99.2 percent of its 480,000 limit, according to BAA figures.  Britain could lose more than 140,000 jobs and 8.5 billion
pounds ($13.4 billion) in annual gross domestic product by 2021
without urgent action to maintain airline connectivity,
according to research released today by Oxford Economics and
sponsored by Heathrow.  Construction of an alternative hub in the Thames estuary,
as favored by London Mayor  Boris Johnson , would take a minimum
of 25 years and risk the loss of even more positions as traffic
moved to Frankfurt, Amsterdam and Paris, according to the report.  U.K. Institute of Directors Director-General Simon Walker
said in a statement he backed the study’s conclusions and that
the failure to add capacity was “lamentable.” Mick Rix, aviation
officer at the GMB labor union, said all options for growth 
should be considered, including an additional runway at Heathrow.  About 70 business and union leaders urged Prime Minister
 David Cameron  to look again at expanding Heathrow in a letter
published March 4 in the Sunday Telegraph newspaper. Cameron’s
coalition government canceled plans for a third runway in 2010
amid concern about increasing noise levels for people living
directly beneath the flight path.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  