-- ECB Balance Sheet Hits Record $3.9 Trillion on History-Making Bank Loans
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-03-06T14:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/ecb-balance-sheet-is-30-bigger-than-germany-s-economy-after-lending-boom.html
The  European Central Bank ’s  balance
sheet  surged to a record 3.02 trillion euros ($3.96 trillion)
last week, 31 percent bigger than the German economy, after a
second tranche of three-year loans.  Lending to euro-area banks jumped 310.7 billion euros to
1.13 trillion euros in the week ended March 2, the Frankfurt-
based ECB said in a statement today. The balance sheet gained
330.6 billion euros in the week. It is now more than a third
bigger than the U.S. Federal Reserve’s  $2.9 trillion  and
eclipses the 2.3 trillion-euro gross domestic product of
 Germany (EUANDE) , the world’s fourth largest economy.  The ECB last week awarded banks 529.5 billion euros for
three years in the biggest single refinancing operation in its
history, adding to the 489 billion euros it lent in December.
The flood of money, which aims to combat  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis by unlocking credit for companies and households, has
increased the risk exposure of the 17 euro-area central banks
that together with the ECB comprise the Eurosystem.  “With the dramatic expansion of its balance sheet since
last summer, the ECB has become the most active central bank in
the world,” said  Klaus Baader , chief euro-area economist at
 Societe Generale  in  London . “The ECB’s measures are absolutely
justified, but it has to be aware of the risks on its balance
sheet and think of an exit strategy.”  The euro extended its drop and traded at $1.3121 at 3:25
p.m. in  Frankfurt . European stocks fell, taking the decline on
the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  to 2 percent today.  ‘Substantial Risks’  The balance sheet has swelled by more than 1 trillion euros
since mid July as the debt crisis made banks wary of lending to
each other, forcing the ECB to provide additional liquidity and
step into bond markets with its asset-purchase  program .  The balance sheet records all the assets and liabilities on
the books of the ECB and the central banks of the euro area,
which conduct market operations on the ECB’s behalf.  ECB council member Jens Weidmann, who heads  Germany ’s
Bundesbank, said the unprecedented three-year loans are “at the
limits” of the central bank’s mandate and warned of
“substantial risks,” Spiegel magazine reported on March 3.  Collateral Rules  The ECB has loosened rules on the collateral it accepts
against loans, increasing the risk that taxpayers would have to
foot the bill if a bank defaults. The lending could also
discourage banks and governments from implementing reforms, or
even fuel inflation.  Bond and equity markets have rallied since the ECB’s first
three-year loan in December, suggesting banks are investing at
least some of the money in higher yielding assets. That’s helped
ease concern about a  credit crunch  and won governments time to
agree on measures to contain the debt crisis.  European leaders on March 2 signed a German-inspired
deficit-control treaty to increase fiscal discipline. With a
second Greek aid package wrapped up and the euro region slipping
into recession, the leaders also committed to a pro-growth
agenda. The euro-area economy will contract 0.3 percent this
year, according to the European Commission.  “Central bank liquidity buys politicians time,” said
 Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at Schneider Foreign
Exchange in London. If they fail to use it wisely, “history
will likely judge the damage done by central bank liquidity
injected today as irreparable,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  