-- Ecuador February Consumer Prices Rose Most Since September
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-03-06T14:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/ecuador-february-consumer-prices-rose-most-since-september-1-.html
Consumer prices in  Ecuador , which
uses the  U.S. dollar  as its official currency, rose at their
fastest pace in five months in February, led by increases in
food and health costs, the statistics agency reported.  Prices climbed  0.78 percent  last month and increased 5.53
percent from  February 2011 (EDCPYOY) , the National Statistics and Census
Institute said today in a report on its  website . Producer prices
fell 0.57 percent in February and increased 1.94 percent from a
year earlier, according to the report.  Food prices have risen this year as record rainfall in
coastal areas damaged crops and disrupted supplies, according to
today’s report and data from the country’s National Meteorology
and Hydrology Institute. Bad weather, minimum wage increases and
higher prices for imported commodities are pressuring costs,
according to  Deloitte & Touche LLP .  “Inflation this year is expected to rise,” the company’s
 Quito office  said today in a report published before the data’s
release. “It’s probable that there exists a scarcity of some
products because of the effects of the winter, which could
increase their costs.”  Above-average rainfall is expected to continue in coastal
areas and the Andean highlands until the end of May, the weather
agency said in a Feb. 29 report.  Prices rose the most last month in the coastal city of
Esmeraldas, jumping 1.48 percent. Inflation was 0.92 percent in
the nation’s largest city, Guayaquil, the agency said.  Ecuador, the smallest member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, subsidizes fuel costs and the
domestic use of natural gas.  Annual inflation is forecast to average 5.14 percent this
year compared with 4.7 percent in 2011, while the economy may
expand 5.35 percent, according to the Finance Ministry’s 2012
budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in  New York  at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 