-- Meggitt Mulls Acquisitions, Eyes Makers of Sensors and Equipment
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-03-06T09:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/meggitt-mulls-acquisitions-eyes-makers-of-sensors-and-equipment.html
Meggitt Plc (MGGT) , a U.K. maker of
aircraft engine sensors, wheels and brakes, has further appetite
for acquisitions after spending $685 million to buy Pacific
Scientific Aerospace last year, its chief executive said.  “We like sensors; we’d be interested in buying more sensor
businesses,” Chief Executive Terry Twigger in an interview
after reporting earnings. “We also like engine equipment,
because there’s a good after-market on that. And our energy
business has been growing rapidly, so we could be interested in
bulking up that business a bit.”  Meggitt is looking at a number of companies which, if they
came to market in 2012, would provide interesting targets,
Twigger said, adding that no transaction is imminent. The
company, based at Bournemouth airport in Christchurch,  England ,
has made progress in reducing its level of debt expressed as a
ratio to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, bringing it down to 1.7 at the end of 2011 from
1.9 a year earlier, he said.  “There is scope in there to give us some headroom for
acquisitions,” Twigger said.  Meggitt fell 2.3 percent to 391.1 pence at 9:46 a.m. in
 London . The stock has gained 11 percent so far this year.  The company last year bought Pacific Scientific Aerospace
from Danaher Corp. to expand its range of fire-fighting
products. Twigger today said integration of that acquisition was
going well, allowing the company to raise its synergy targets by
25 percent.  In the past, shareholders have been receptive to equity
offerings to help fund acquisitions if need be, and Twigger said
he expected that to remain the case in the future.  Meggitt sells components and sub-systems for aerospace,
defense and energy markets, with products including pilot
displays, braking systems, fire-detection systems, and oxygen.
Key customers include the U.S. military,  Boeing Co. (BA) , European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., and Bombardier Inc.  Sensors measure conditions such as temperature or
vibrations inside an engine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  