-- Lehman Says Zell’s Archstone Option Would Enrich Banks
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-03-06T19:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/lehman-brothers-amends-complaint-against-archstone-partners.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
revised its lawsuit against  Bank of America Corp.  and  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  to stop them from selling their remaining stake in real-
estate company Archstone for almost $1.5 billion to Sam Zell’s
 Equity Residential. (EQR)   Bankrupt Lehman, which has said it wants to take control of
Archstone, asked a judge to make the banks honor an earlier
agreement that would have allowed Lehman to pay about $1.3
billion for the stake. The Zell company said on Feb. 21 that its
minimum price would be $1.5 billion if it exercised an option to
buy half of the banks’ stake, an increase from $1.3 billion
earlier.  The banks would be unjustly enriched if Lehman was forced
to match Zell’s price for the remaining stake, the defunct firm
said in an amended complaint filed yesterday in  Manhattan 
bankruptcy court.  The Zell company also would be unjustly enriched, as it is
in line for a break-up fee if Lehman exercises its option to buy
the banks’ remaining stake, Lehman said.  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from Washington
and New York to  San Francisco . Lehman and the banks made loans,
which they later converted to equity after Archstone faltered in
the 2008 credit crisis. Lehman previously owned 47 percent of
Archstone.  The Zell company hasn’t contracted to buy the banks’
Archstone stake, it said last month.  The bankruptcy case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ,
08-13555, and the Archstone case is Archstone LB Syndication
Partner LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 