-- Lehman Amends Archstone Suit After Zell Bids $1.5 Billion
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-03-06T19:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/lehman-amends-archstone-suit-against-bofa-after-zell-bids-1-5-billion.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , which
filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in 2008, said it
was exiting court protection and will make its first payment to
creditors on April 17.  The defunct investment bank has about $18 billion of cash
available, and has said its first distribution will exceed
$10 billion. In theory, it could give creditors $12 billion to
$14.7 billion initially, depending on how much cash it needs to
keep in reserve for disputed claims, it told a judge in U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan in a filing on Feb. 15. Today’s 
statement from Lehman didn’t specify the size of the distribution.  Lehman, which was run by Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld when its collapse helped bring on the worst economic slump
since the Great Depression, settled a fight with creditors in a
payment plan that allotted more money to derivatives claimants
including  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. and less to bondholders such
as Paulson & Co. Both groups had proposed rival plans to pay
Lehman’s debts.  The former investment bank’s official exit from bankruptcy
court after getting a liquidation plan approved doesn’t mean it
is shutting up shop. Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Marsal  has
said asset sales will continue through 2014 as he aims to raise
a total of $65 billion to pay estimated claims of $370 billion.  JPMorgan Claims  Lehman still is fighting creditors over billions of dollars
in claims, including $6 billion filed by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
that the defunct firm says are inflated. Its lawsuits continue,
too. Today in bankruptcy court, Lehman filed a revised lawsuit
against  Bank of America Corp.  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to stop them from
selling their remaining stake in Archstone, Lehman’s biggest
real-estate asset.  Investors in failed energy trader Enron Corp. were paid 53
cents on the dollar, while Lehman’s liquidation plan would give
the average creditor less than 18 cents on the dollar in the
next few years, according to court documents.  Lehman’s senior bondholders, including Paulson, would
recover about 21 cents on the dollar under the Marsal plan.
Claims on Lehman’s derivatives unit, such as Goldman’s, would be
paid about 28 cents to 32 cents, while commercial paper claims
would get 48 cents to 56 cents, all based on each dollar of
their investment, court papers show.  Lehman failed because of too much debt and risky real
estate investments, according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report.
The firm filed for bankruptcy with $613 billion in debt.
Bankruptcy managers and advisers have charged Lehman almost $1.6
billion in fees since it foundered.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  