-- Elliott Management Wins U.S. Court Ruling Over Defaulted Argentina Bonds
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-06T13:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/elliott-management-wins-u-s-court-ruling-over-defaulted-argentina-bonds.html
Elliott Management Corp.’s NML
Capital Fund won a court ruling forcing  Argentina  to pay
interest on its defaulted debt.  Argentina must make the payments to NML before or at least
at the same time it pays interest on bonds it issued in its 2005
and 2010 debt restructurings, U.S. District Judge Thomas P. Griesa in  Manhattan  ruled on Feb. 23. Griesa found in an earlier
ruling that Argentina repeatedly breached its payment
obligations under NML bonds.  “Creditors of the Republic have no recourse to bankruptcy
regimes to protect their interests and must rely upon courts to
enforce contractual promises,” Griesa said in the ruling. “No
less than any other entity entering into a commercial
transaction, there is a strong public interest in holding the
Republic to its contractual obligations.”  NML is entitled to information detailing the timing and
amounts of Argentina’s bond payments, what the country owes on
other obligations and any other material appropriate to confirm
compliance, Griesa ruled.  Argentina is “permanently prohibited” from taking any
action to evade the court’s ruling or render it ineffective by
altering or amending how it makes payments on its bonds, Griesa
said.  NML owns a beneficial interest representing $132 million
principal amount on certain floating-rate accrual notes issued
by Argentina, according to court documents.  Officials of Argentina weren’t immediately available for
comment. Jorge Arguello, Argentina’s ambassador in the U.S.,
said the country has appealed the order, newspaper La Nacion
reported.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 09-
cv-01707, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  