-- England Manager Search Won’t Be Hindered by Chelsea, F.A. Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-06T00:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/england-manager-search-won-t-be-hindered-by-chelsea-f-a-says.html
The “unique” opportunity to manage
England’s soccer team means the search for Fabio Capello’s
replacement won’t be hindered by competition from Chelsea,
Football Association chairman  David Bernstein  said.  The London club is seeking a new manager after billionaire
owner  Roman Abramovich  fired Andre Villas-Boas after eight
months two days ago, raising the prospect of Chelsea and the
F.A. going for the same candidate following Capello’s
resignation last month.  “This position is so unique that the right person would
want to do it on a sensible basis and for the right reasons,”
Bernstein told reporters in London yesterday. “It is a very
fluid situation, I am not sure if (other clubs searching for
managers) helps or hinders. It depends on how the cards fall.”  Tottenham’s  Harry Redknapp  is the bookmakers’ favorite to
replace Capello, who quit after disagreeing with the governing
body’s decision to strip Chelsea’s  John Terry  of the national
team captaincy. Spurs are in third place in the Premier League
and pushing for automatic qualification for  Europe ’s elite
 Champions League  next season.  The four-man Club England board, which is responsible for
selecting the new manager, is working toward making an
appointment by early May, Bernstein said. The European
Championship, where England is grouped with co-host Ukraine,
 Sweden  and  France , starts June 8.  “At the last board meeting we agreed our intent would be
to make a recommendation of one person to the F.A. board,”
Bernstein said. “We have now arrived at a number of target
names. I would call it a flexible target list because it’s not
absolutely fixed in stone and we will react to events depending
how events unfold.”  ‘Greatest Urgency’  Although the F.A. expects to hire a new  England  manager at
the end of the domestic season, there remains a possibility of
an earlier appointment “if certain things fell into place,”
Bernstein said, adding that the process won’t be rushed.  “We are treating this with the greatest urgency and under
no circumstances should our taking time over this be taken as
anything other than dealing with it professionally,” he said.  The F.A.’s next step is to narrow its target list by
excluding those who may not be interested in one of the most
high-profile national coaching jobs. Officials have spoken to
soccer industry contacts about potential candidates, though
haven’t sought the opinions of current players.  “We don’t want to disrupt the season of the clubs,”
Bernstein said. “Most of the people we are looking at are in
positions and whatever we do we ought to try and do it in a way
which enables clubs to finish their season with the minimum of
disruption.”  The governing body has said the possibility remains that
there won’t be a permanent manager in place until after the 16-
team European Championship finishes on July 1.  Stuart Pearce, England’s under-21 manager, led the senior
team in its 3-2 home loss to the Netherlands last week. The
former England defender has said he’s willing to do the job on a
temporary basis at Euro 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  