-- Hepatitis C Patients Relapse on Gilead’s Experimental Medicine in Study
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-03-06T16:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/hepatitis-c-patients-relapse-on-gilead-s-experimental-medicine-in-study.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , which paid
$10.8 billion to buy  Pharmasset Inc. (VRUS)  for its hepatitis C pill,
said the number of patients who relapsed after they stopped
taking the treatment has increased.  Eight of nine patients with the most-common form of the
virus in the U.S. had a relapse within four weeks after stopping
use of the medicine, GS-7977, and ribavirin, according to
research presented today at the Conference on Retroviruses and
Opportunistic Infections in  Seattle . The patients in the study
weren’t helped by prior therapies.  Gilead announced last month that six patients relapsed,
sending shares down the most in 11 years. A longer duration or
combination with other therapies may help these patients, said
researcher Edward Gane, deputy director and hepatologist of the
New Zealand Liver Transplant Unit at Auckland City Hospital.  “It’s clear the treatment options for this very difficult
to treat group will either be longer duration of 7977 plus
ribavirin, or alternatively, the addition of another direct
acting antiviral,” Gane said at the meeting.  Last year, Pharmasset reported data on PSI-7977 showing
that 40 patients with genotypes 2 and 3 who received the therapy
were responsive after 12 weeks. About half the patients had been
followed up to 24 weeks, and they were all cured.  Hepatitis C is a viral infection that can lead to swelling
of the liver. As many as 170 million people globally carry the
virus, which is transmitted through exposure to infected blood,
and more than 350,000 die from related illnesses each year,
according to the Geneva-based  World Health Organization .  Gilead declined 1.4 percent to $45.59 at 11:41 a.m. New
York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  