-- Merck KGaA Says 2012 Profit May Be Hurt by Job-Cutting Costs
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-03-06T21:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/merck-kgaa-forecasts-higher-revenue-profit-hurt-by-costs.html
Merck KGaA (MRK) , the German maker of the
Erbitux cancer medicine, said costs to cut jobs will hurt profit
this year after setbacks in the company’s drug unit.  Core earnings, which exclude costs such as writedowns and
merger expenses, were 1.69 euros a share in the fourth quarter
compared with 1.78 euros a year earlier, Darmstadt-based Merck
said today in a  statement . Analysts predicted 1.70 euros a
share, the average of 11  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Merck is reorganizing after setbacks in developing
medicines for cancer and multiple sclerosis. The company said
Feb. 24 it plans to eliminate jobs, and last year it ended seven
drug development programs and hired a new finance chief and head
of pharmaceuticals.  “We managed to deliver on our profitability guidance
despite facing a softening economy and significant one-time
charges,” Chief Executive Officer Karl-Ludwig Kley said.
“However, we recognize that the competitive and market
pressures we face in our business are likely to increase over
the next few years.”  Fourth-quarter net income tripled to 135.6 million euros
($179 million) from 46.5 million euros a year earlier, when
earnings were held back by the cost of buying Millipore Corp.
Analysts predicted 169.3 million euros, the average of seven
estimates. Revenue rose 3.1 percent to 2.63 billion euros,
beating the 2.59 billion-euro average estimate.  Merck’s Forecast  Merck, which isn’t related to U.S. drugmaker Merck & Co.,
fell 3.9 percent to 77.50 euros in  Frankfurt , giving the company
a market value of 16.8 billion euros. The stock has returned 20
percent in the  past year , outperforming the 16 percent return
for the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   “Merck displays a solid performance and shows confidence”
with its forecast, Elmar Kraus, an analyst at  DZ Bank  in
Frankfurt, wrote in a note to clients today. He recommends
buying Merck shares.  Revenue will increase slightly in 2012 and 2013, while
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
probably will decline because of expenses for the
reorganization, the company said. Analysts predict sales will
rise 1.8 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2013, based on
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Merck will pay a dividend of 1.50 euros a share, up from
1.25 euros a year earlier.  Stimuvax Study  A late-stage clinical trial of the experimental  lung-cancer 
drug Stimuvax will continue based on an interim analysis of the
study, Merck said today. A final result is expected next year,
the company said in a  presentation  to analysts. Stimuvax is
among the drugs Merck is counting on to boost sales.  “Stimuvax-related risk has been lowered by the decision
that has just been made, as we don’t have to halt the study, but
it remains a high-risk project,” Kley said at a news conference
today. U.S. regulators put Stimuvax trials on hold for three
months in 2010 after a patient with a blood malignancy developed
a brain infection while taking the drug.  Oncothyreon Inc. (ONTY) , Merck’s partner on Stimuvax, fell 40
percent to $5.07 at the close of trading in  New York .  A decision by the European Medicines Agency on whether to
approve Erbitux for lung cancer is expected in the second half,
the company said. Stefan Oschmann, Merck’s head of
pharmaceuticals, told JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts in January
that the chances of getting Erbitux approved for that use in
 Europe  were less than 50 percent.  Health Unit Sales  Sales at the Merck Serono health unit climbed 2.7 percent
to 1.54 billion euros. Erbitux, already sold to treat advanced
 colon cancer  and tumors in the head and neck, increased 6.7
percent to 225.1 million euros, while sales of the Rebif
multiple sclerosis treatment rose 0.2 percent to 430.8 million
euros.  Consumer-health sales rose 2.4 percent to 129 million
euros.  Merck Millipore, which makes lab equipment and research
tools, had sales of 610 million euros, up 5.2 percent. The
performance-materials unit, the world’s biggest maker of  liquid
crystals  for flat-screen televisions and electronics, reported a
sales increase of 1.7 percent to 344 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Darmstadt, German, via the Frankfurt newsroom at
   jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 