-- Erdogan Cuts Wrong Deficit for Bondholders Watching Imports: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-03-07T15:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/erdogan-cuts-wrong-deficit-for-bondholders-watching-imports-turkey-credit.html
Turkey’s ballooning  trade deficit  is
causing the longest slump in the country’s  bonds  this year even
as the government cuts the budget deficit to half the European
Union’s target.  The Treasury, which plans to lower its budget shortfall to
1.5 percent of gross domestic product this year, may report a
surplus for a second month on March 9, based on the ministry’s
projections of spending and borrowing. The surge in oil prices
to a three-year high threatens to ramp up spending on imports
and worsen the current-account balance from a record 10 percent
of GDP, according to analysts at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Toronto-
Dominion Bank (TD)  and  BGC Partners. (BGCP)   Turkish  lira bonds  tumbled for the past four days, the
longest losing streak since Nov. 17, lifting two-year yields 27
basis points to 9.4 percent yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The rout drove the extra yield over two-year
Polish zloty bonds to the highest since Jan. 26 at 482 basis
points, up from 423 basis points on Feb. 22. Bond yields fell 2
basis points to 9.38 percent at 4:45 p.m. in Istanbul.  “Turkey seems weak to me as the current-account problem is
still there and oil prices aren’t helping,” Suha Yaygin, the
deputy chief of  emerging markets  at Toronto-Dominion in  London ,
said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “Is  Turkey  ready for an
oil shock?”  Budget Discipline  Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said in a March 1
speech that “nothing could slow” Turkey’s march toward
political and economic stability. “We’ll never concede on
budget discipline, disciplined monetary policies and disciplined
financial sector policies,” he said according to a transcript
of his remarks from the state-run Anatolia news agency.  The lira was little changed after weakening for four days
at 1.7898 against the dollar today, after hitting the lowest
since Jan. 25 at 1.7956 yesterday. Investors are betting the
currency may fall to 1.8130 in June, according to pricing of
futures contracts.  The Treasury’s borrowing costs for two-year domestic bonds
rose to 9.41 percent from 9.24 percent a month ago, according to
the central bank after an auction of 2.51 billion liras ($1.4
billion) of debt yesterday.  “In a scenario where oil prices remain high, we would
avoid Turkey,” Guillaume Tresca, an emerging markets strategist
at  Credit Agricole  in Paris, said in e-mailed comments. “Turkey
will be affected through two channels: inflation and the energy
bill, which means a larger current-account deficit.”  Investor Confidence  Turkey’s worsening external balance crushed investor
confidence last year even as the economy grew 9.6 percent in the
first nine months, the most after  China  among the Group of 20
major nations. The current-account deficit at $77 billion in
2011 was the second-highest worldwide after the U.S. according
to the  International Monetary Fund . The lira tumbled 18 percent
against the dollar last year and two-year yields soared 393
basis points.  Investor concern eased earlier this year on speculation a
slowdown in economic growth would trim import purchases. The
lira jumped as much as 10 percent and two-year yields fell 193
basis points, or 1.93 percentage points, between Dec. 28 and
Feb. 20, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Oil soared as high as $109.77 a barrel on Feb. 24 from
$75.67 on Oct. 4 and traded at $105.18 in  New York  yesterday.  Every $10 increase in the oil price adds $4 billion to the
cost of imports, or about half a percentage point of GDP, Energy
Minister  Taner Yildiz  said on Feb. 28. That makes Turkey “one
of the most exposed countries” to a rise in oil prices,
according to Credit Agricole’s Tresca.  Inflation (TUCPIY)  in Turkey slowed to 10.4 percent in February from
10.6 percent in January, a three-year high, the statistics
office in Ankara said yesterday.  Government Debt  The external deficit is overshadowing Erdogan’s achievement
in reducing government debt to less than 40 percent of GDP last
year from almost double that when he came to power a decade ago.
The Treasury expects debt will fall to 37 percent in 2012, below
 Brazil ,  India ,  Poland  and  Hungary , according to the government’s
economic program published in November and data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The government is planning a series of incentives designed
to narrow the current-account deficit by encouraging industries
which can supply raw or intermediate goods to the domestic
market, reducing the dependence on imports. Economy Minister
Zafer Caglayan said today the incentives may be announced next
week.  Lower borrowing costs have helped Mehmet Simsek, Erdogan’s
finance minister and a former  Merrill Lynch & Co. (MER)  economist, as
he seeks to balance a goal of curbing the  budget deficit  while
expanding the economy by at least 4 percent this year.  The government’s target for the budget deficit of 1.5
percent of GDP in 2012 would be less than a third of the 5.6
percent in 2010 and half the EU’s 3 percent target for euro
accession countries.  Bonds Hurting  The budget gap may be 2 percent of GDP in 2012, according
to the median of four analyst estimates on Bloomberg, compared
with forecasts for 5.2 percent in  South Africa , 3.5 percent in
Poland and 3.2 percent in Hungary.  Turkish bonds are also being hurt by a global slump in
riskier assets on concern that Greece’s bondholders may reject a
debt swap plan and by a contraction in the euro region’s
economy, which is Turkey’s biggest trading partner.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 10 basis points to 357 yesterday,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global Index. The
spread for  Turkish dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries  rose 8
basis points to 330.  “I do not see significant room for Turkish yields to come
down in the short term,” Aziz Unan, a portfolio manager at
Renaissance Asset Managers in London, said by e-mail. “However,
in the medium term I think it makes sense as the government’s
borrowing continues to be in a declining trend and debt-to-gross
domestic product is below a very comfortable 40 percent now.”  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Turkish debt against non-payment for
five years using credit default swaps fell three basis points to
235 today, bringing the decline this year to 56 basis points,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of
eastern European, Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps
fell one basis point to 269, according to data provider CMA.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  “The impact of the sharp increase in oil, which took place
in February, will be felt in Turkey’s external balances in
February and mostly in March,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at
BGC Partners in Istanbul, said by e-mail. “Investors have to
live with the fact that Turkey’s current-account deficit will
remain high until at least 2016.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  