-- Rousseff Warns Merkel of Brazilian ‘Measures’ Against Euro’s Devaluation
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-03-06T16:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/merkel-says-discussed-state-of-euro-with-brazil-s-rousseff-1-.html
(Corrects spelling of Rousseff in fourth paragraph. For
more on Europe’s debt crisis, see EXT4.)  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
she discussed the euro with Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ,
as Rousseff warned of steps to avoid “artificial devaluation”
in Europe and the U.S. from hurting Brazil’s economy.  “We had a very extensive discussion last night about the
state of the world economy in general, about the situation of
the euro, the duty to avoid global imbalances,” Merkel told
reporters today in Hanover,  Germany , where the leaders opened
the Cebit electronics fair. “Brazil’s economic development is
closely linked to what’s happening in the euro region.”  Germany has been at the forefront of calls for Group of 20
nations including Brazil to raise their contributions to the
 International Monetary Fund  to help combat the euro-area debt
crisis. G-20 officials meeting in  Mexico  City last month said
they will reassess such calls in April once Europe strengthens
its financial firewall against the crisis.  Asked whether Rousseff had pledged not to stand in the way
of an increase in the IMF’s firepower that could be used to
stabilize euro states, Merkel said “we didn’t discuss this
point.” Rousseff said that she didn’t discuss a larger
contribution from Brazil to the IMF.  ‘Bigger Role’  “We are in favor of a bigger role for Brazil in the
monetary fund,” Rousseff said. Brazil wants “a change in terms
of the participation of emerging countries in the IMF board.”  Brazil’s Finance Minister Guido Mantega said in Mexico last
month after meeting with his counterparts from Russia,  India ,
 China  and  South Africa  that the so-called BRICS group of major
 emerging markets  will only add more funding for Europe if its
leaders follow “precisely to the letter” a 2010 agreement to
give them a bigger say in how the Washington-based IMF is run.  Merkel recommitted to that agenda, saying that the matter
will be discussed at the IMF’s spring meeting in  Washington .  “In Germany and in Europe we’ve already declared the
readiness to increase the quotas,” she said. “The IMF has
undergone a quota reform at which the importance of emerging
economies has increased compared with earlier times.”  Rousseff said that she had raised her concerns with Merkel
over “the monetary expansion that has been taking place by some
developed countries,” including the U.S. and in  Europe .  Economic Performance  Brazil’s economy saw its second-worst performance last year
since 2003, the statistics agency in Rio de Janeiro said today,
as higher borrowing costs and a currency that rallied to a 12-
year high led it to underperform emerging-market peers China and
India.  While the euro has gained 1.6 percent against the dollar
this year, it is down more than 5.5 percent against the
 Brazilian real  in the same period.  “I would like to make clear that faced with the artificial
devaluation of currencies, Brazil will take measures,” Rousseff
said. While she didn’t specify what action might be taken, she
said it wouldn’t breach World Trade Organization rules. Any such
steps will block devaluation from “leading to the
deindustrialization of the Brazilian economy.”  Merkel said that she understood Rousseff’s concern and that
both agreed protectionism must be avoided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  