-- Lesbian Quant Finds Holocaust Roots With Psycho Voyeur’s Help: Book Review
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-03-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/lesbian-quant-finds-holocaust-roots-helped-by-stalker-books.html
San Francisco , 1974. A
professor banished from his post (for what disgrace we
don’t quite know, only that it involved a “dear student”)
takes refuge in a cubby of a downtown office.  In the next room a psychotherapist meets her patients,
their conversations curtained by the whir of a sound
machine -- except for those of one woman who can’t stand
the noise. He begins eavesdropping on her sessions. Soon
obsession claims him.  Ellen Ullman’s weird and fascinating novel “ By Blood ”
builds from there. The “dear patient” (we never learn
either her name or the professor’s) is a quant with a
Wharton MBA who came to San Francisco for the gay
revolution and found herself a square peg in the
politically correct community of Bay Area lesbians.  The adopted daughter of a stiflingly WASP family, she
begins unearthing her history. Soon she’s receiving
assistance, though she doesn’t know the source, from her
eavesdropper.  She’s startled to learn that she may have been born a
Catholic -- startled because her adoptive father is a
Catholic hater. In time she has reason to think that
(worse, from her adoptive family’s perspective) she may
have Jewish blood.  Nervous Coughing  The professor listens, sweats and once nearly gives
himself away by coughing. Using oddly 19th-century diction,
he writes of “the nervous condition to which I had been
subject since boyhood,” which involves images of pursuit by
crows that he describes this way:  “It was as if my flock of crows ... had flapped up
from a dense tree to cut crazy angles around me and shout,
Her! Her! Her! (So did the desire present itself to my
imagination, which, as I have said, was morbid and
afflicted at the time.)”  Those ravens might be cawing “Nevermore!” -- this is
the voice of  Edgar Allan Poe . What’s less clear is whether
the professor is one of Poe’s neurotics or one of his
maniacs.  He hints at the latter when he hears a description of
the Zodiac Killer (“Loner. Voyeur. Fear of women.
Obsessional”) on the radio and wonders, “Was this a
description of ... myself?”  Bar Brawl  Ullman has sadistic fun with this jittery nut case,
setting him down at one point on the dance floor of a
lesbian bar, where he’s almost punched out, and at another
in a Castro cruise bar, which he flees.  Meanwhile, the “dear patient” pursues her origins, and
when her search leads her to the Holocaust, it takes over
the novel. Ullman has a showman’s sense for dispensing
information in dribs and drabs, the length of the
therapeutic session putting a limit on how much she gives
out at once.  (As a result, the book’s 125 chapters are all short
enough so that late at night you can keep telling yourself,
“Just one more.”)  “By Blood” is, in other words, two novels, ingeniously
interlaced. The professor’s tale allows the author to be
devious, witty and cold; it’s a literary construct. But
since the patient’s tale opens onto the Holocaust and the
Holocaust is an event too ugly, too big and still too close
to treat with irony, her chapters are increasingly earnest
and heated.  Each half is successful, even brilliant, on its own
terms, but the two sit uncomfortably, and in the end
unsatisfyingly, together.  If “By Blood” had been published as back-to-back
novels, it would be a less ambitious, a less showy and no
doubt a less commercial book, but a better one. And it
would still demonstrate Ellen Ullman’s remarkable range.  “By Blood” is from Farrar, Straus and Giroux (378
pages, $27). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 