-- Tesoro Will Run Some Refineries If Workers Strike, Union Says
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-03-06T19:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/tesoro-will-run-some-refineries-if-workers-strike-union-says.html
Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  plans to keep some U.S.
oil refineries running if union workers strike on failed
contract negotiations, according to the United Steelworkers,
which represents more than 1,300 Tesoro employees.  Tesoro will run some struck plants by employing “people
who have little or no experience working on process units,” the
union said in an e-mailed statement. Gary Beevers, the group’s
international vice president, was informed of the plans by a
company representative, said Lynne Hancock, a union spokeswoman.  “They said, if there was a strike, the company would hire
people, and those people would take the jobs of strikers,”
Hancock said in a telephone interview from Nashville,  Tennessee .  Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at Tesoro headquarters in  San
Antonio , didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed and telephoned
requests for comment.  Workers at the 170,000-barrel-a-day Martinez refinery in
 California , the largest plant in Tesoro’s system, became the
first yesterday to authorize a strike.  Union locals at all five Tesoro refineries in negotiations
rejected the company’s final offers on a three-year contract
last month. The plants have a total refining capacity of 508,000
barrels a day.  Tesoro’s contract proposal would allow the company to
change or eliminate health care, pension and 401(k) plans and
vacation policies unilaterally, according to the union.  “Our members are engaged in good-faith bargaining, but
Tesoro seems unwilling to reach a reasonable agreement on this
important issue and appears determined to provoke a fight with
our members and our union,” Beevers said. “If so, this is a
fight that Tesoro will regret.”  The other four refineries in negotiation are in  Anacortes (TEANCRUD) ,
 Washington ;  Kapolei (TEKACRUD) ,  Hawaii ;  Mandan (TEMACRUD) , North Dakota; and  Salt Lake
City (TESLCRUD) . Workers there may follow Martinez with strike
authorizations if they don’t reach settlements with the company.
Unions at all five plants have been working on 24-hour rolling
extensions of a contract that expired Jan. 31.  The union’s contract at Tesoro’s 97,000-barrel-a-day
 Wilmington (SHWCCRUD)  refinery in Southern California expires April 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  