-- Espirito Santo Buying Longer Maturities of Portuguese Debt
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 2012-03-06T12:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/espirito-santo-buying-longer-maturities-of-portuguese-debt-1-.html
Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,  Portugal ’s
biggest publicly traded bank, is “slowly” buying longer
maturities of the country’s bonds in secondary markets and
doesn’t expect a debt restructuring, Chief Executive Officer
Ricardo Salgado said.  “We are changing our strategy a little bit,” Salgado said
today in an interview. “I believe that our yield curve will
move towards the Irish one. We are slowly buying longer
maturities. We have 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) in exposure
to Portuguese sovereign debt, and now we are moving to two-
thirds short term and one-third around 5 years.”  Portugal hasn’t sold bonds since it followed Greece and
Ireland in getting a European Union-led financial rescue last
year. The country’s aid plan assumes it will regain access to
medium- and long-term sovereign-debt markets by late 2013.  The country’s debt agency has continued to sell treasury
bills, which Espirito Santo is also buying, according to
Salgado.  “We are market makers and we are always present at
auctions,” the CEO said.  The  European Central Bank  approved on Feb. 9 the temporary
use of additional collateral in funding operations by seven
euro-area members’ central banks including Portugal. It offered
unlimited loans of up to three years against eligible collateral
on Feb. 28 that can be used to finance purchases of assets
including higher-yielding government debt.  ‘Extremely Interesting’  Espirito Santo borrowed 5 billion euros in loans from the
ECB last week, Salgado said.  “We are taking advantage of the three-year LTRO facility,
which is extremely interesting for consolidating debt in better
conditions,” he said.  The Portuguese bank is seeing lower demand for loans in the
country amid the  recession , Salgado said. The economy will
contract 3.3 percent this year, the European Commission forecast
on Feb. 23.  “We are lending in spite of the deleveraging program,”
Salgado said. Portuguese banks have to meet a target of lowering
their loan-to-deposit ratios to 120 percent at the end of 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Tweed in London at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  