-- Estrogen-Only Therapy May Protect Against Breast Cancer, Research Suggests
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-03-06T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/estrogen-only-hormone-therapy-may-protect-against-breast-cancer.html
Estrogen, a hormone known to fuel
breast cancer, may protect against the disease in some cases,
according to a study that found the therapy reduced the risk in
women who took it after a hysterectomy.  The trial of 7,645 women showed that those on estrogen,
sold as Premarin by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , for six years and then stopped
were more than 20 percent less likely to develop breast cancer
and die from the disease than those who never took the hormone
therapy. The study is published online in the  Lancet Oncology .  The research draws from the  Women’s Health Initiative , a
U.S.-sponsored study of disease and disability in postmenopausal
women, and source of the 2002 findings that found women who took
Pfizer’s Prempro, a combination of estrogen and progestin, for
menopause symptoms, had a higher breast-cancer risk. Earlier
studies had pointed to estrogen as raising that danger. Today’s
finding may help dispel confusion surrounding the hormone
therapies, said  Garnet Anderson , a study author.  “We have not done the greatest job of distinguishing
between the hormone therapies,” said Anderson, principal
investigator of the Women’s Health Initiative Clinical
Coordinating Center based at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center in  Seattle , in a March 5 telephone interview. “Estrogen
alone for women with a prior hysterectomy has a very different
risk profile then estrogen plus progestin.”  The  Women’s Health Initiative  study of Prempro included
menopausal women with uteruses and was halted in 2002 because of
the cancer risk, leading to a decline in sales of hormone
replacement therapy pills.  Menopause Symptoms Therapy  Still, Anderson said that women should only take estrogen
to relieve their menopausal symptoms like hot flashes and not to
protect against breast cancer. Estrogen may cause strokes and
blood clots. And in today’s study, the hormone wasn’t found to
be protective in women with a strong family history of  breast
cancer  or a history of benign breast disease, those most likely
to take medicines to prevent the cancer, the authors said.  The researchers in the study included women who had their
uterus removed and took either estrogen or a placebo. They were
part of the Women’s Health Initiative Estrogen-Alone Trial that
was stopped in 2004, a year earlier than planned, because of an
increased risk of stroke.  In today’s study, the researchers found that women taking
estrogen were 23 percent less likely to develop breast cancer
compared with those taking a placebo during an overall follow-up
period of about 12 years. Those in the estrogen group who did
develop breast cancer were 63 percent less likely to die from
the disease than those in the placebo group.  Reason Unknown  Anderson said it’s unknown why estrogen works to lower
breast cancer risk in women who have had a hysterectomy.  In an accompanying comment,  Anthony Howell , a professor of
Breast Medical Oncology and director of the Genesis Breast
Cancer Prevention Center at the  University of Manchester  in the
U.K., and  Jack Cuzick , with the Center for Cancer Prevention at
Queen Mary University of  London , said estrogen levels fall
during menopause. Any precancerous cells in the breast may then
adapt to the lower estrogen and when estrogen levels increase,
rather than growing the tumors may actually die off, they wrote.  Today’s findings suggest that estrogen is most beneficial
for women 50- to 59-years-old to ease menopausal symptoms,
Howell said in a March 2 e-mail. Older women should avoid taking
the hormone therapy because estrogen may increase the risk of
strokes and heart attacks.  The results are “clearly very reassuring for women,” he
said. “For the first time they demonstrated a significant
reduction in breast cancer risk and a significant reduction in
deaths from breast cancer.”  The Premarin family of drugs generated $1.01 billion in
sales last year, Pfizer said on Jan. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  