-- EU May Seek Tougher Collateral, Oversight Rules for Repo Market
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-06T14:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/eu-may-seek-tougher-collateral-oversight-rules-for-repo-market.html
European Union regulators may impose
tougher collateral requirements on repurchase agreements on
concerns that such trades might lead to unsustainable debt
levels that threaten market stability.  The European Commission is weighing the extra requirements
as part of measures to rein in risky financial activities that
take place outside of the regular banking system, according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg News.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services commissioner, is scheduled to publish the
proposals next week.  Repurchase agreements, contracts where one investor agrees
to sell a security and then buy it back at a future date and a
fixed price, are a “central issue,” according to the document.
The EU is working with global regulators to identify
“regulatory gaps and inconsistency between jurisdictions,”
including for collateral management.  The trades, known as repos, are one of several so-called
shadow banking activities being targeted by the Group of 20
nations on concerns they may be used to evade a clamp-down on
excessive risk taking. The Financial Stability Board, which
brings together regulators, G-20 central bankers and finance
ministry officials, said last year that shadow banks may create
“an opportunity for regulatory arbitrage.”  Tougher rules on the collateral that investors must give to
back repo transactions may be needed be prevent high debt levels
that “can increase the fragility of the financial sector and be
a source of systemic risk,” the document says.  $60 Trillion  The FSB has estimated that shadow banking activities were
worth around $60 trillion in 2010. This figure would represent
25 to 30 percent of the total financial system, according to the
EU document.  In addition to repurchase agreements, the document
identifies exchange traded funds, special purpose vehicles, and
 money market funds  as other possible “shadow-banking entities
and activities” that may need tougher rules.  Barnier will publish the draft plans next week and may seek
to have new rules in place by the start of 2013, according to an
EU official who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  