-- EU May Propose Carbon Set Aside in Updated Auction Rules, Zapfel Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-03-06T14:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/eu-may-propose-carbon-set-aside-in-updated-auction-rules-zapfel-says.html
The European Commission may create a
temporary set-aside of carbon permits through amending its
regulations on auctioning allowances, assuming nations in the
bloc decide to go down that route, an official said.  The commission is considering ways in which it can reduce
the surplus of supply that depressed carbon permits to a record
of 6.38 euros ($8.41) a metric ton on Jan. 4. Members of the
European Parliament’s industry committee last week backed a set-
aside of permits in discussions over an  energy efficiency  law.  “Temporary setting aside could be done by an amendment of
the emissions trading system auctioning regulation, provided a
political decision is taken to do so,” Peter Zapfel, emissions-
trading coordinator at the EU commission, said at the Argus
emissions conference in Amsterdam.  The surplus of permits in the second phase of the ETS,
which ends in 2012, will be transferred, or “banked” into the
third phase starting in 2013, which may prolong the market’s
oversupply, Zapfel said. The third phase runs through 2020.  “Banked phase-two allowances add to the supply of
allowances in phase three from auctions and free allocation and
are expected to impact the price signal for a number of years,”
he said. “The recession may therefore have a long-lasting
effect and could give rise to false investment signals or lock
in of carbon-intensive infrastructure.”  The commission is not seeking the authority to intervene in
the bloc’s carbon market, Zapfel said.  Market Intervention  “The commission does not seek discretionary powers to
intervene in the carbon market,” he said. “Nor does it support
any form of direct price intervention or targets like a minimum
price. An effective carbon market needs regulatory stability and
a rule-bound process with lead-time for market actors to
adjust.”  Carbon permits may rise by more than 50 percent to 14 euros
by the end of next year, assuming EU regulators propose to set
aside 400 million tons of allowances in the three years through
2015, said Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Carbon for December
next year fell 4.6 percent today to 9.14 euros on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London  as of 2:44 p.m.  “Installing a set-aside would reduce the chance of a price
crash in 2013, when full auctioning starts,” said Matthew Cowie, an analyst in London for New Energy Finance. “It will
avoid step changes in the balance between supply and demand in
the traded market,” he said March 2 in a phone interview.  Ultimately, the set-aside won’t correct the impact of the
recession, Cowie said.  ‘Bit Awkward’  “It’s a bit awkward having the set-aside in the energy
efficiency directive,” Cowie said. “If the set-aside really
was about energy efficiency, it should remove supply later in
the decade, when that proposed law starts to cut emissions. You
would do it the opposite way around.”  The EU’s justification for having a temporary set-aside of
allowances does not sit well with its proposals to boost energy
efficiency, a  Barclays Plc (BARC)  analyst also said.  “All of the impact from the Energy Efficiency Directive
comes after 2015,”  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst at  Barclays
Capital , said in an interview at the conference.  If the energy efficiency directive “is the pure logic,” a
set-aside is inconsistent with what the directive is trying to
do, he said. “The set-aside is very much a second-best policy.
It’s not what you would choose to do.” Tightening the EU caps
would be better policy, Sikorski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 