-- Poland Urges EU Not to ‘Spoil’ Carbon Market With Set-Aside
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-03-06T17:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/eu-should-refrain-from-changing-co2-permits-supply-poland-says.html
The European Union should avoid
“spoiling” its carbon market with measures to bolster emission
prices by withholding permits or changing the bloc’s pollution
caps, according to  Poland ’s Environment Minister Marcin Korolec.  The 27-nation bloc’s environment ministers are scheduled to
meet in Brussels on March 9 to discuss climate strategy. The EU
should stick to its current target to reduce emissions by 20
percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels and refrain from steps
that would change the design of the carbon market, Korolec told
his counterparts in a letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Any administrative and arbitrary changes of either the
cap or the amount of allowances on the market would destroy its
essential market features,” Korolec wrote. “We would not want
to destroy the market we created with so much effort, or else we
could simply replace it with a tax regime if we don’t like the
market forces at play.”  Korolec’s comments highlight the divide among  member states 
about the EU’s future emission-reduction goals and the
functioning of its emissions trading system, the world’s biggest
carbon market. Poland, which is leading a group of countries
opposing tighter climate targets, said last week it may block
any political declaration at the March 9 meeting that would lead
to more stringent policy in the coming years.  48 Percent Price Slump  The letter sent to European ministers today comes after
environmental groups and investors’ associations stepped up
pressure on the EU to withhold some allowances from the market
after the price of carbon permits slumped 48 percent in the past
year on economic slowdown and oversupply.  The European Parliament’s industry committee last week
endorsed the option of withholding the “necessary” amount of
permits from auctions as of 2013 in an amendment to a planned
energy efficiency law. The European Commission, the bloc’s
regulatory arm, has repeatedly said it needs a political
decision to come forward with a draft set-aside measure.  Such “radical” proposals challenge the political
compromise among EU nations in 2008 when they approved a package
of climate-protection legislation, Korolec said. The package
included tougher caps in 2013-2020 on  power plants  and factories
in the EU emissions trading system, or ETS, and differing
national limits until 2020 on  greenhouse gases  from industries
outside the program.  ‘Grave Political Risks’  “It would not only bring about grave political risks, but
also undermine investor confidence in the stability of the EU
climate legislation,” he wrote.  EU allowances for December dropped as much as 4.8 percent
to 8.42 euros ($11.05) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London  today. The contract slumped to a record of
6.38 euros on Jan. 4 amid concerns that excess permits will
weigh on the market in the coming years.  Analysts at Bloomberg New Energy Finance predict that, in
the current trading period from 2008 through 2012, the ETS will
be oversupplied by permits covering around 1.1 billion tons of
CO2. This surplus may be transferred into the next trading stage
from 2013 to 2020.  EU Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  said today the
bloc needs to “reactivate” the system, adding that the issue
of a set-aside endorsed by the parliament will be on the EU
agenda in the summer.  Temporary Set-Aside  The commission originally floated the idea of withholding
CO2 permits in a 2010 policy paper on  climate change . It has
suggested a temporary set-aside could be created from the pool
of allowances scheduled to be sold to companies by national
governments starting in 2013. Any eventual cancellation of
permits at the end of, or during, the 2013-2020 trading phase
would require a revision of the ETS law in a separate process.  The EU regulator is not seeking the authority to intervene
in the ETS, Peter Zapfel, emissions-trading coordinator at the
commission, said at the Argus emissions conference in Amsterdam.  “Banked phase-two allowances add to the supply of
allowances in phase three from auctions and free allocation and
are expected to impact the price signal for a number of years,”
he said. “The recession may therefore have a long-lasting
effect and could give rise to false investment signals or lock
in of carbon-intensive infrastructure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net .
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  