-- Iran Offer for Nuclear Talks Accepted by Europe as Military Action Weighed
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-03-06T15:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/european-union-seeking-nuclear-talks-with-iran-on-behalf-of-world-powers.html
The European Union offered to
restart negotiations with  Iran  over its nuclear program, seeking
a “full settlement” of the clash that has pushed up oil prices
and raised the specter of war in the  Middle East .  In a statement on behalf of China, France,  Germany ,  Russia ,
the U.K. and the U.S., EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton 
urged Saeed Jalili, Iran’s nuclear envoy, to meet her to seek an
accord in which Iran would clarify questions about its nuclear
program. Ashton responded in a  letter  to an Iranian overture
last month to restart talks.  The renewed prospect of negotiations to dial back concerns
about Iran’s program came hours after U.S. President Barack Obama called for more time to let diplomacy and sanctions solve
the standoff. Obama spoke yesterday following talks with Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , who is in  Washington  to seek
support for a more aggressive approach to Iran.  “Our overall goal remains a comprehensive negotiated,
long-term solution which restores international confidence in
the exclusively peaceful nature of Iran’s nuclear program,”
Ashton said in the letter, released today in Brussels.  The EU (BKIR) 
envoy said she didn’t want a “repeat” of Istanbul, where talks
with Iran broke down in January 2011.  The EU has set no deadlines for the start or conclusion of
talks, a European aide told reporters. The 27-nation bloc has
proposed a meeting in coming days to prepare talks, said the
official, who declined to be identified under briefing ground
rules. The formal discussions are likely to start only after
Iranian new year March 20.  Oil Prices  The prospect of confrontation in a region with more than
half the world’s oil reserves has sent crude prices soaring.  Oil
prices  declined today, with crude oil for April delivery sliding
1.6 percent to $105.10 a barrel in  New York .  Netanyahu, who takes his case to Congress today, gave a
speech to American Jewish leaders in which he said he won’t let
 Israel  live in the “shadow of annihilation.”  While Obama told the Israeli leader “there is still a
window” for a diplomatic solution to the confrontation with
Iran, Netanyahu told the American Israel Public Affairs
Committee that “none of us can afford to wait much longer.”  The U.S. and the EU have ratcheted up economic sanctions
against Iran over concerns that the government in Tehran is
pursuing nuclear weapons. EU foreign ministers agreed in Janaury
to ban oil imports from Iran and freeze the country’s central
bank assets.  ‘Earliest Possibility’  Jalili wrote in a Feb. 14 letter to Ashton that Iran wants
direct talks at the “earliest possibility.” Ashton urged Iran
to approach talks without preconditions and to focus on the
nuclear program, though negotiators could address “other areas
of interest” to Iran.  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  has said his country
is willing to revive talks on its nuclear program, which his
government has repeatedly insisted is for peaceful purposes.  “They claim that Iran doesn’t want negotiations but it
isn’t so,” Ahmadinejad said Jan. 26 in the southeastern
province of Kerman.  Obama has said he does not support a policy of containment
and takes “no options off the table,” including a “military
effort” to stop Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. While
thanking Obama for delivering a “strong speech” to Aipac,
Netanyahu said Israel retains the option of acting on its own.  Since reaching a low for the last 12 months on Oct. 4,
2011, crude oil has risen 41 percent, in part because of
concerns about tensions in the Persian Gulf and higher demand
spurred by growth in countries such as  China  and the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  