-- Yen Holds Gains Versus Most Peers as Greek Debt Concern Spurs Stock Losses
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-03-07T06:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/euro-trades-near-three-week-low-before-greek-debt-swap-deadline-tomorrow.html
The yen held gains from yesterday
versus most of its major counterparts as declines in Asian
stocks and concern about Greece’s ability to complete a debt
swap supported demand for the currency as a refuge.  Australia’s dollar touched a six-week low after a report
showed the nation’s economy expanded by less than economists had
forecast. The euro rallied against the dollar amid speculation
options traders bought the 17-nation currency to prevent
automatic trades from triggering after recent declines.  South
Korea ’s won weakened for a third day as Citigroup Inc. said
global funds pulling money from local stocks may trigger a
further drop in the Asian currency.  “The market is in a risk-off environment, so the yen is
more likely to be bought,” said  Satoshi Okagawa , a senior
global-markets analyst in Singapore at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corp., a unit of  Japan ’s second-largest banking group by market
value. “It’s quite possible that the yen will strengthen beyond
80 per dollar.”  The Japanese currency fetched 106.17 per euro as of 6:41
a.m. in  London  from 106.07 in  New York  yesterday, when it
climbed 1.6 percent, the sharpest advance since Nov. 9. The yen
rose 0.2 percent to 80.77 per dollar. The euro gained 0.3
percent to $1.3148.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares slid 0.8 percent
today, set for a third-straight decline. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  lost 1.5 percent and the MSCI World Index tumbled 2.1
percent yesterday.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, a
measure of market volatility known as Wall Street’s fear gauge,
was at 20.87 yesterday, the highest close since Feb. 15.  Greek Talks  The Greek government, which set a 75 percent participation
rate as a threshold for proceeding with its debt swap, said
yesterday it will use collective action clauses to compel
holders of Greek-law bonds to accept the transaction if it
receives sufficient consents from investors.  The goal of the exchange, which runs through tomorrow, is
to reduce by 53.5 percent the total of privately held Greek
debt, helping avert an uncontrolled default that could roil
markets and fuel contagion.  “We’ve got concerns that the hedge-fund holders of Greek
private debt may create a bit of an issue tomorrow night and
that may force  Greece  to technical default,” said  Thomas Averill , managing director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a
currency and  interest-rate  risk-management company. “Euro-
dollar goes back to $1.26” by the middle of April, he
predicted.  The ECB will keep its benchmark interest rate at a record
low 1 percent tomorrow, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Knock-Out’ Options  The euro rebounded after sinking to as low as $1.3111
today.  “There’s talk of barrier options with a $1.3100 knock-out
strike,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at Forecast
Pte in Singapore. “Holders of these options appear to be buying
the euro to protect them.”  A knockout is a barrier that renders the option worthless
should it be triggered, and traders use it to reduce the premium
paid for the option.  The euro has weakened 3 percent in the past six months,
while the dollar has strengthened 4.4 percent, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-
market currencies. The yen dropped 2.3 percent.  Australia ’s gross domestic product rose 0.4 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months, the Bureau of
Statistics said today. The median of estimate from economists in
a Bloomberg News survey was for an 0.8 percent gain.  Australia’s Growth  “I don’t see an immediate rebound in the Aussie dollar,”
said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD
Securities Inc. in Singapore. “The GDP report will keep rate-
cut hopes alive and certainly adds to the overall tone this week
of global growth concerns.”  The Australian dollar touched $1.0509, the lowest since
Jan. 25, before trading at $1.0563 from $1.0553 yesterday.  South Korea’s won may weaken about 2 percent over the next
“couple of weeks,” according to Citigroup.  The won fell 0.2 percent to 1,124.80 per dollar today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Overseas investors sold
$254 million more Korean  stocks  than they bought this week
through yesterday, exchange data show.  “The won could easily retrace to 1,150 over the next
couple of weeks if risk-off gathers pace,” Patrick Perret- Green, head of foreign-exchange at Citigroup in  Singapore , said
in a telephone interview today. “The biggest question is what
will happen to equities. A lot of inflows came into  Asia  in
January and the first half of February and investors are now
actually losing money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 