-- Facebook Loses German Ruling Over Friend Finder’s Use of E-Mails
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-03-06T16:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/facebook-loses-german-ruling-over-friend-finder-s-use-of-e-mails.html
Facebook Inc. lost a ruling in
 Germany  over using the e-mail addresses of people who aren’t
members of its social network.  A Berlin court found Facebook doesn’t adequately inform
members that all e-mail addresses imported by its “Friend
Finder” function will be used to contact others, even if they
aren’t members of its network, German consumer group
Verbraucherzentrale Bundesverband, which won the ruling, said on
its website today. The judges criticized the company saying
users are “lured” into disclosing those addresses, it said.  “The ruling is a milestone,” the group said. The  Palo
Alto , California-based company “must respect data-protection
rules in  Europe .”  Facebook last year reached a deal with a German regulator
reviewing the friend-finder function. Under that agreement with
the City of Hamburg’s data-protection agency, Facebook must
inform non-members by e-mail explaining why their addresses are
used and how they can be kept private.  The company will look into the details of today’s decision
as soon as they are available and then decide on the next steps,
Facebook said in an e-mailed statement.  Facebook’s Irish unit, which serves users in Germany, is
committed to adhering to European data-protection principles, as
demonstrated by the recent report of the Office of the Irish
Data Protection Commissioner, the company said.  The court also said Facebook improperly required users in
its general terms to grant the company licenses for the free use
of all content posted on their pages and to agree to data
processing for publicity, the consumer group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  