-- FDA Cites Inhalable Caffeine Maker for Misleading Statements
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-06T19:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/fda-cites-manufacturer-of-aeroshot-caffeine-for-mislabeling-of-the-product.html
Caffeine dispensed from lipstick-
size canisters is mislabeled because the manufacturer encourages
consumers to breathe the mist into their lungs instead of
spraying it on their tongues to be swallowed.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cited Breathable Foods
Inc. for describing its AeroShot Pure Energy inhaler as
“breathable energy” that may confuse users, according to a
warning  letter  sent yesterday from the agency.  “Caffeine is not normally inhaled into the lungs and the
safety of doing so has not been well studied,” the FDA said in
a  statement .  Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer , of  New York , wrote FDA
Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  in December, saying the inhaler
could be used as a “club drug” by teenagers. AeroShot, which
is sold over the counter with no age restrictions, is touted for
its convenience and zero calories.  The agency also warned the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
company for videos on a website promoting AeroShot that the
agency said may encourage people to use the product with
alcohol, the letter said.  FDA Instructions  “FDA has instructed Breathable Foods Inc. to correct the
violations cited in the warning letter and provide information
on research the company cites so the agency can evaluate the
research,” according to the agency statement.  Breathable Foods has 15 business days to respond to the
agency and comply with FDA regulations.  “We plan to work closely with the FDA to meet their
requests for information and labeling changes to ensure
compliance with dietary supplement requirements,” Tom Hadfield,
chief executive officer of Breathable Foods, said in an e-mail.
“AeroShot delivers a mix of B vitamins and caffeine to the
mouth for ingestion and is not ‘inhaled’ into the lungs.”  Last year, at Schumer’s urging, the FDA stopped sales of
caffeinated alcoholic beverages after they were linked to
hospitalizations and deaths.  “This stern warning is the clearest indication yet that
AeroShot needs to be taken off the market until these concerns
can be addressed and the product’s safety can be confirmed,”
Schumer said in a statement.  The inhaler was created by  David Edwards , a professor at
Harvard University’s School of Engineering and Applied Sciences,
who also invented Le Whif, a calorie-free inhalable chocolate.  AeroShot delivers 100 milligrams of caffeine, the same
amount in a large cup of coffee. The caffeine is absorbed in the
mouth and digestive tract, not through the lungs, according to a
fact sheet from Breathable Foods. AeroShot is priced at $2.99
and is not intended for anyone younger than 18, according to the
product’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  