-- Financial Services Tops New Yorkers’ List of Consumer Complaints
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-03-06T18:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/financial-services-tops-new-yorkers-complaints.html
Consumers in the  New York  City area
complained the most about issues with financial services
companies last year, officials said.  The Better Business Bureau of Metropolitan New York
received 7,267 complaints in 2011 on issues ranging from fees on
credit cards to delays in refinancing home mortgages, Claire Rosenzweig, president and chief executive officer of the group,
said at a press conference today. It was the top category out of
a total 63,000 business complaints the agency gathered last
year.  “A lot of the financial services complaints deal with
mortgages and credit cards,” Rosenzweig said. “Mortgages and
mortgage loan modifications and refinancing, there’s a lot of
activity in that area.”  Representatives from New York state and city agencies along
with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission listed consumers’ top
complaints and frauds at today’s event in  Manhattan  to alert
consumers about scams and how to protect themselves.  Nationally the FTC received more than 1.8 million
 complaints  from consumers last year. More than half, or 55
percent, were related to any type of fraud, costing individuals
more than $1.5 billion, according to a report the agency
released last week. The top-ranked category was  identity theft ,
the FTC said.  “No matter what goes on in the economy, fraud is
persistent,” said Len Gordon, regional director in the
Northeast for the FTC. “In good times and bad the fraudsters
are very opportunistic and out to take people’s money.”  Consumers should beware of solicitations to wire money,
provide personal information, pay upfront fees for help with
debts or give a real estate agent a deposit before getting keys
to a rental property, officials from the agencies said.  Colorado had the highest per capita rate of reported fraud
and other types of complaints last year, followed by Delaware
and  Maryland , according to the FTC. New York ranked No. 36.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 