-- Finance Isn’t as Amoral as It Seems (Part 2): Robert Shiller
-- B y   R o b e r t   S h i l l e r
-- 2012-03-06T00:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/finance-isn-t-as-amoral-as-it-seems-part-2-commentary-by-robert-shiller.html
Many people assume there is
something sleazy about the business of finance, or the
people who practice it. This impression is probably behind
the commonly voiced opinion that it is a shame so many
young people today are going into finance-related
occupations, when they could be doing something more high-
minded in other fields.  It’s true that many people in business do seem to feel
rewarded, for the short run at least, in putting
salesmanship ahead of purpose and in cutting legal corners.
They seem too focused on money to have moral purpose in
their business affairs.  Yet if one lives in the real world, one has to work
with, or even for, such people. They are a reality, and it
makes sense to try to understand them -- to see if they are
as simply sleazy as people think.  Positions in certain finance-related fields often
offer more than the usual temptation to be less than honest
-- because finance is a profession that offers, at least to
the lucky few, astronomically high incomes. On occasion, we
may even ask: Why would anyone with a sense of personal
morality go into finance?  Deliberate Deception  Finance may seem corrupt also because the management
of information is central to success in the field. And to
make the best deal in a financial transaction, there is
always the temptation to withhold information. Deliberate
financial deception wounds the victim’s ego; people feel
foolish to have been duped.  Casinos reveal how it’s possible to exploit people’s
recurring errors in judgment. Consider how much people act
to  avoid losses , even small ones, as research by
psychologists  Daniel Kahneman  and Amos Tversky has shown.
If offered an asymmetrical bet on a coin toss -- to win $20
if it comes up heads, or lose $10 if it comes up tails --
most people will turn it down. How is it then that casinos
are able to induce many people to make investments (in the
form of bets) -- and do it so much that, by the law of
averages, losses are a virtual certainty?  Part of the answer has to do with the casino, which is
designed to encourage risk-taking. Alcohol is served. And
the setting cultivates the notion that all the casino’s
customers are rich and successful. This confuses some,
causing them to lose sight of their repeated losses at the
tables. When people are in a place where they can see
others making large bets, their own potential losses seem
less salient.  By replicating some of these features in their
laboratory, the psychologists Joseph Simmons and Nathan
Novemsky found that they do, in fact, encourage risk-
taking.  Left to unregulated market forces, many brokerage
services would closely resemble casinos. We know this from
observing the nature of securities establishments before
regulation was effective. The “bucket shops” of the late
19th and early 20th centuries, where customers bet on
commodities and prices, allowed patrons to make many very
small bets, in a social atmosphere and while watching
others bet. One patron of a bucket shop in the financial
district of  New York  in 1879 said it reminded him of “a
horse-pool room,” a place where people engaged in an early
form of pari-mutuel betting.  Cognitive Dissonance  When someone participates in a business that seems in
any way sleazy, that person may experience the discomfort
of what psychologists call “cognitive dissonance.” To
maintain self-esteem in such circumstances, people may
revise their beliefs. Hypocrisy is one manifestation of
this; a person espouses opinions mainly out of convenience
and to justify certain actions, while often at some level
actually believing them. Social psychologists have shown
how cognitive dissonance leads with some regularity to
moral lapses -- or, at times, to what we might call
“sleaziness.”  Recently, the neuroscientist Vincent van Veen and his
colleagues used functional magnetic-resonance imaging to
monitor brain activity in experimental subjects as they
were encouraged to lie about their true beliefs. The
researchers found that the lying stimulated certain regions
of the brain, the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex and the
anterior insula. Some subjects showed more stimulation in
these regions than did others. Importantly, those with more
activity in these brain regions showed a stronger tendency
to change their actual beliefs to be consonant with the
beliefs the researchers led them to espouse. We thus have
some evidence that a physical structure in the brain is
associated with cognitive dissonance, and that this appears
to be part of a neural mechanism that produces the
phenomenon.  If hypocrisy is thus built into the brain, then there
is a potential for human error that can be of great
economic significance. A whole economic system can take as
given certain assumptions -- for example, the belief, held
during the years before the current financial crisis, that
 home prices  never fall. To doubt it would have caused
cognitive dissonance for millions of people who either
invested in real estate or were otherwise involved in a
system that was overselling it.  Consider, too, the European bank regulators’ decision
years ago to put zero  capital requirements  on euro-
denominated government debt. At the time, an end to the
euro was unthinkable; to recognize a risk of failure would
have created dissonance. So European regulators adopted
what in retrospect seems an irrational stance -- that euro-
denominated debt was completely safe -- setting the scene
for a potential disaster in the banking sector.  Truth Seekers  This kind of thinking is perennial and fundamental.
But the finance professions also attract people who are
relatively invulnerable to cognitive dissonance: traders or
investment managers who delight in the truth that is
ultimately revealed in the market. Troubled by hypocrisy,
they seek vindication not by sounding right but by being
proved right. Many financial theorists have tried to
represent people as merely profit maximizers, perfectly
selfish and perfectly rational. But people really do care
about their own self-esteem, and profit maximization is at
best only a part of that.  The practice of finance doesn’t universally incline
its practitioners to sleazy behavior. It also rewards
people with a certain kind of moral purpose -- one that may
be visible to outsiders only intermittently. Day to day, it
is hard to see the moral purpose inherent in helping one’s
clients, and so it is easy to conclude that such moral
purpose doesn’t even exist among people in finance.
However, most people naturally project such purpose onto
their daily routine. Most of us instinctively want to be
helpful and good, within limits, to those around us.  The moral calculus of accumulating large sums of money
over a lifetime can be extremely opaque. Most of us never
have a true reckoning of our own moral purpose, let alone
the moral purposes of others.  John D. Rockefeller Sr., himself the son of a small-
time huckster and bigamist, was, in his business life, a
ruthless, take-no-prisoners aggressor. Ida Tarbell made a
scandal of his business practices in her  1904 book  “The
History of the Standard Oil Company.” But in his later
life, Rockefeller became a philanthropist in the mold of
 Andrew Carnegie , establishing the Rockefeller Foundation,
the  University of Chicago  and Rockefeller University. His
son John D. Rockefeller Jr. continued the family
philanthropy and, in turn, trained his six children in the
ways of public service. One of them,  Nelson Rockefeller ,
became vice president of the U.S., and the fourth
generation includes John D. Rockefeller IV, who has been a
U.S. senator from  West Virginia  for more than a quarter of
a century.  Charitable Impulse  What ultimately motivated the Rockefellers? Was it
mere ego gratification and the desire for a family dynasty?
Or did their philanthropy serve some deeper moral purpose?
Most likely, it is a little of both. Even if wealthy people
plan to give away all their money and possessions
eventually, no one else knows their ultimate intentions,
and thus others are naturally suspicious of them. Such
suspicion may express itself in a tendency to brand all of
the rich as sleazy. Yet quantitative research suggests that
negative stereotypes of top businesspeople aren’t
universal.  In 1990, Maxim Boycko, a Russian economist; Vladimir
Korobov, a Ukrainian economist; and I did conducted a
survey on American (specifically  New Yorkers ’) and Russian
(Muscovites’) attitudes toward business. We asked, “Do you
think that those who try to make a lot of money will often
turn out to be not very honest people?” In both countries
many people answered yes. But more felt that way in  Russia :
59 percent, compared with only 39 percent of the New
Yorkers.  We then asked a more personal question: “Do you think
that it is likely to be difficult to make friends with
people who have their own business (individual or small
corporation) and are trying to make a profit?” In Moscow,
51 percent of the respondents said yes, compared with only
20 percent in New York.  The further success of financial capitalism once again
depends on people adopting a more nuanced view of human
nature as it is expressed in a financial environment. In an
economic system that is essentially good overall, we have
to accept that there will be some less-than-high-minded
behavior.  ( Robert Shiller  is a  professor  of economics at  Yale
University , where he teaches financial markets in the  Open
Yale Courses  program. He is the author of “ Irrational
Exuberance ” and “The Subprime Solution.” This is the second
in a series of four excerpts from his new book, “ Finance
and the Good Society ,” to be published April 4 by  Princeton
University Press . The opinions expressed are his own. Read
 Part 1 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Shiller at  Robert.Shiller@yale.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  