-- Michelle Obama Joins Karan, Beene in 50-Year Fashion Show
-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h
-- 2012-03-06T05:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/first-lady-joins-50-years-of-von-furstenberg-karan-kamali-in-design-show.html
A glimpse of  Michelle Obama ’s
election-night dress reminds us of how history can mark haute
couture and vice versa.  “When you see Narciso Rodriguez’s dress for Mrs. Obama,
it’s very moving,” said Patricia Mears, co-curator of “Impact:
Fifty Years of the CFDA” and deputy director of the Museum at
the Fashion Institute of Technology in  Manhattan , where the show
is on view.  Diane von Furstenberg conceived the exhibition to celebrate
the 50th anniversary of the Council of Fashion Designers of
America, with 100 or so pieces contributed by its members.  Designers sent in what they felt represented them best and
“drove the way in which the show is displayed,” Mears said.
“We didn’t know what they were going to pick and it just felt
like my birthday every day as the pieces came in.”  A rich Stephen Dweck necklace and a white hat by Patricia
Underwood with a few other accessories prepare you to step into
fashion history in a room that includes pieces by Geoffrey Beene, Bob Mackie,  Donna Karan , Rodarte and Rick Owens.  There are outfits of all kinds, from trousers to sweaters,
gowns and even a 2005 Federal Express uniform. In one array of
sumptuous pieces that includes the First Lady’s dress, the
colors match those of the CFDA’s logo: red, white and black.  Looking Back  Stan Herman, president of the  CFDA  for 16 years and
responsible in the past for bringing  New York  Fashion Week to
tents in  Bryant Park , was “very impressed with the older
designers, the ones you don’t see in Vogue and Harper’s today,”
he said. “Pauline Trigere, Norman Norell. These were the people
who started this organization.”  Publicist Eleanor Lambert and 50 designers created the CFDA
in 1962 to help them get recognized and promoted. Five decades
later, there are 400 active members.  “I think we should be very proud to be part of this
industry, part of the CFDA,” said von Furstenberg, the current
president. “The word ‘impact’ illustrates what American fashion
is about. It’s about design and pragmatism at the same time.
It’s where design and commercial blend into the highway of
success.”  Don’t miss what looks like her famed wrap dress -- it’s
actually a top and a skirt that evolved into her signature
piece.  On the opening wall are an incredibly elaborate red-carpet-
look Marchesa dress and a Norma Kamali feathered frock that
could have come from  Alfred Hitchcock ’s “The Birds.”  Two Students  Oscar de la Renta lent a stunning golden silk-taffeta gown
with a black lace top. Proenza Schouler, a brand founded 10
years ago by two students who met at Parsons the New School for
Design, is represented by a lacy orange short-sleeved dress.  How did they make it in New York?  “It’s very hard, but if you have a passion and you have
the talent, you have to go for it,” Mears said. “And please
come to New York, that’s why we’re all here.”  “Impact: Fifty Years of the CFDA” is at Seventh Avenue at
27th Street through April 17. Information: +1-212-217-4558;
 http://fitnyc.edu/336.asp .  (Lili Rosboch writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lili Rosboch in New York 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 