-- First U.S. Air Force F-35 Pilot Training Sortie Cut Short
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-06T23:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/first-u-s-air-force-f-35-pilot-training-sortie-cut-short-1-.html
The U.S.  Air Force ’s first pilot
training flight of its new F-35 jet was cut short by a possible
fuel leak, the service said today.  The possible leak reduced today’s scheduled 90-minute
flight of the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  jet to 15 minutes, Colonel
Andrew Toth, commander of the 33rd Fighter Wing at Eglin Air
Force Base,  Florida , said in a statement.  The pilot ended the flight due to an “in-flight
emergency,” according to the statement.  Development test pilots have been flying the jets at
Edwards Air Force Base in  California  equipped with instruments
monitored by ground-control personnel, who alert them of
performance flaws as they fly. That’s different from the so-
called “uninstrumented” flight training that’s beginning at
Eglin with pilots experienced on other aircraft.  “Our first sortie is truly a milestone,” Toth said of the
initiation of pilot training, which had been delayed for months
as the service responded to concerns from the Pentagon’s testing
office. “Unfortunately, things happen.”  The pilot “did the exact right thing in returning the jet
back to Eglin,” Toth said.  The pilot testing was to have started as early as November.
It was put on hold after the Pentagon’s director of test and
evaluation said in October that the Air Force must delay
training combat pilots until testers worked through technical
issues and the service resolved potential safety “shortfalls”
that risked a “serious mishap.”  Michael Gilmore , the director of operational test and
evaluation, said in an Oct. 21 memo that there were “serious
concerns” with commencing initial training at Eglin.  The Air Force said in starting the training flights that it
had acted on Gilmore’s concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  