-- Toyota First Trial Scheduled in California Acceleration Case
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-03-07T03:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/first-california-toyota-acceleration-trial-to-start-in-november.html
The first  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  sudden-
unintended acceleration trial in California, involving the death
of a woman whose 2006 Toyota Camry hit a telephone pole, will
get under way in November in  Los Angeles .  California Superior Court Judge Anthony Mohr, who oversees
the coordinated state court cases in Los Angeles, said in an
order yesterday that jury time-qualification will begin between
Nov. 1 and Nov. 30 and that the trial will begin after Jan. 1,
with the specific date to be determined.  The so-called bellwether trial involved the claims by the
family of Noriko Uno, who died in 2009 when, they allege, her
Camry unintentionally accelerated and struck a telephone pole.
Lawyers for the plaintiffs estimate that the trial will take
about 40 days, according to the judge’s order.  Simultaneously with the wrongful death case, the judge will
hear evidence for the lawsuit by the Orange County  District
Attorney  who sued Toyota in 2010, alleging the carmaker
endangered the public by knowingly selling defective vehicles.
Witnesses who testified in the Uno case will testify if needed
in the D.A.’s case without the jury present, the judge said.  Two Cases  The judge also selected two other bellwether cases, one
proposed by the plaintiffs, as was the Uno case, and one
proposed by Toyota.  “Toyota looks forward to defending these cases, and we
remain confident that the evidence will confirm what millions of
Toyota drivers prove every day: that they can depend upon their
vehicles to provide safe, reliable transportation,”  Celeste Migliore , a spokeswoman for Torrance, California-based Toyota
Motor Sales USA, said in a statement.  U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in  Santa Ana ,
 California , who oversees the coordinated federal lawsuits
against Toyota over unintended-sudden acceleration, in October
scheduled the first of three trials in his court for Feb. 19,
2013.  Toyota, the world’s second-largest automaker, recalled at
least 8 million U.S. vehicles starting in 2009, after claims of
defects and incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration.
The recalls set off hundreds of economic-loss suits and claims
of injuries and deaths.  The cases are Toyota Motor Cases, JCCP 4621, California
Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Central Civil West.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 