-- Florida Public Worker Pension Funding Change Rejected by Judge
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-03-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/florida-s-1-billion-public-worker-pension-funding-changes-tossed-by-judge.html
A judge blocked  Florida  GovernorRick Scott’s changes to the state’s public employee pension
system that were part of an effort to save $1 billion a year.  Leon County Circuit Judge Jackie Fulford in Tallahassee
yesterday called the benefit reductions an “unconstitutional
taking of private property without full compensation and an
abridgment of the rights of public employees to collective
bargain over conditions of employment.”  As part of a pension overhaul pushed last year by the
Republican governor, 59, legislators changed the way pensions
were funded, requiring workers to contribute 3 percent of their
pay and eliminating the retirement fund’s cost of living
adjustment for employees retiring after the law took effect in
August. The savings were redirected to the Florida Retirement
System, which covers 655,000 state employees, saving general
fund money to use for other programs.  “The decision is wrong,” Brian Burgess, spokesman for
Scoot, said after the court hearing. “The judge has ignored 30
years of  Supreme Court  precedent by refusing to let Florida have
common-sense pension reform.”  The state will file a “swift appeal” to reverse the
ruling, the governor said in an e-mailed statement.  The  Florida Education Association , which represents the
state’s teachers, sued the state in June, arguing the funding
switch was illegal because it changed the rules for current
employees. The association was joined in the suit by the AFL-CIO
and unions for nurses, police officers and government
supervisors.  State’s ‘Promises’  “The judge’s ruling confirms that the Florida constitution
requires the state to live up to its promises, including those
made to the public workers by the state itself,”  Andy Ford ,
president of the teachers’ group, said in a statement.  The state Legislature is completing the budget for the
2012-2013 fiscal year. Legislators are working to close a $2
billion revenue shortfall.  Fulford wrote in yesterday’s ruling that the Legislature
“preserved” $1.2 billion in unspent general revenue funds for
the 2011-2012 fiscal year.  “All indications are that the Florida Legislature chose to
effectuate (the measure) in order to make funds available for
other purposes,” Fulford said. She ordered the state to
reimburse employees the 3 percent that was deducted from their
pay over the past year and to restore the cost of living
adjustment to the pension fund.  ‘Deeply Disappointed’  Senate President Mike Haridopolos, a Republican from
Merritt Island, said in a statement he was “deeply
disappointed” by the decision from Fulford, who last year ruled
that the Legislature could not privatize prisons through the
budget process.  “She has proven once again that she is an activist judge
who has no problem overstepping her authority and overruling the
decisions of the state’s elected representatives and the
critical role that we play as the budget writers,” Haridopolos
said in the statement. “This ruling is a radical departure from
past precedent.”  House Speaker Dean Cannon, a Republican from Winter Park,
said in a statement that fiscally responsible adjustments to the
Florida Retirement System are needed to protect the fund’s long-
term solvency and ensure that massive layoffs can be avoided.  Not Final Step  “The ruling of a trial court judge is the first and not
the final step,” Cannon said.  Rod Smith, chairman of Florida’s  Democratic Party , said the
decision will protect working families from “the serious and
devastating consequences of the GOP’s extreme, Tea Party
agenda.”  Hal Johnson, general counsel for the Florida Police
Benevolent Association, one of the unions that joined the suit,
said he was sure the governor and the Legislature will appeal
the ruling.  “We’ll see what the Supreme Court says,” he said. “I’d
rather be on our side of the order than their side of the
order.”  The case is Williams v. Scott, 11-CA-1584, Second Judicial
Circuit, Tallahassee, Florida.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  