-- Gasoline Falls on Concern That Global Economic Growth Slowing
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J .   P o w e l l
-- 2012-03-06T20:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/gasoline-falls-on-concern-that-global-economic-growth-slowing.html
Gasoline slid a third consecutive
day on concern that global growth is slowing after a report that
 Europe ’s economy contracted in the fourth quarter.  Futures fell as Europe’s  gross domestic product  shrank 0.3
percent from the third quarter, the European Union’s statistics
office said today. This follows reports yesterday that U.S.
factory orders sank and  China  cut its economic growth outlook.  “There is no doubt the market is being held back by rising
concerns about a global economic slowdown,” said Phil Flynn,
vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .  Gasoline for April delivery declined 2.81 cents, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $3.2299 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices have gained 20 percent this year,
making gasoline the best-performing energy commodity in the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials.  In Europe, which is facing its second recession in less
than three years, fourth-quarter exports fell 0.4 percent while
 household spending  slipped 0.4 percent and investment dropped
0.7 percent.  The European Union today offered to restart negotiations
with Iran over its nuclear program, seeking a “full
settlement” of the clash that has pushed up  oil prices  and
raised the specter of war in the  Middle East .  ‘Rising Uncertainty’  “It looks like rising economic uncertainty is putting a
negative tone into the market,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst
and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut . “And
now the European Union says it’s willing to reopen negotiations
with Iran about nuclear issues.”  U.S. stockpiles of  gasoline  probably fell 1.6 million
barrels last week, based on the median estimate of 10 analysts
in a survey by Bloomberg News. That would be the third
consecutive decline.  Distillate (DOEASDIS)  inventories probably fell 1.65 million barrels,
according to the survey. That would leave supplies at the lowest
level since the week ended Dec. 16, Energy Department data show.  The department is scheduled to report last week’s
inventories at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  April-delivery heating oil fell 2.92 cents, or 0.9 percent,
to settle at $3.1882 a gallon on the exchange. Prices are up 8.6
percent this year.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, slipped
0.3 cent to $3.764 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.
That’s the first decline since Jan. 24. Prices have increased 15
percent this year, and are 8.7 percent higher than a year
earlier.  Price Outlook  Regular-grade gasoline will average $3.79 a gallon this
year, the highest level in data going back to 1976, and $3.72 in
2013, the department’s Energy Information Administration said
today in its monthly  Short-Term Energy Outlook . The EIA said
last month that prices would average $3.55 in 2012 and $3.59
next year.  “The amount that gasoline prices have risen over the past
year has been fairly astounding,” said  Sander Cohan , a global
transportation fuels analyst and principal with Energy Security
Analysis Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts.  Prices during the April-through-September peak driving
season will average $3.925 a gallon, 5.7 percent higher than a
year ago, the department estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  