-- Gavilon Said to Attract Bunge, Glencore, Wilmar to Sale Process
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-03-06T05:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/gavilon-said-to-attract-bunge-glencore-wilmar-to-sale-process.html
Gavilon Group LLC has drawn interest
from suitors including Bunge Ltd. and Glencore International Plc
as the closely held grain handler weighs a sale that could fetch
as much as $5 billion, said people familiar with the matter.  Gavilon is asking for first-round bids in early March, said
the people, who declined to be identified as the process is
private. The company also may pursue an initial public offering,
an option its owners discussed with banks, they said. Gavilon’s
top investor is Ospraie Management LLC, the hedge-fund firm
founded by Dwight Anderson.  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , Japanese trader Mitsui & Co. and
Canadian grain handler  Viterra Inc. (VT)  also are exploring offers,
said two of the people. The successful bidder for Gavilon, whose
roots go back more than a century, would gain one of the world’s
largest fertilizer distribution networks, as well as the third-
biggest U.S. grain-merchandising operation, based on the
company’s  website .  Agricultural products accounted for about $17.1 billion of
sales at Glencore, a Swiss-based commodities trader, last year,
according to preliminary annual results.  White Plains ,  New York- 
based Bunge processes soybeans, corn and sugar.  Wilmar, the world’s largest palm oil trader, spoke with
Omaha, Nebraska-based Gavilon last year about a purchase without
sealing a deal, according to one person. Gavilon is working with
Morgan Stanley to review options including a sale, a person
familiar with the matter said in January.  Most private-equity funds have been excluded from the
bidding process, said another person with knowledge of the
situation. Spokesmen for Gavilon, Morgan Stanley, Bunge,
Glencore, Mitsui and Viterra declined to comment. Wilmar wasn’t
immediately able to comment, it said today in an emailed
statement.  Other Options  The company also has discouraged oilseed processor Cargill
Inc. and Archer Daniels Midland Co. from bidding after judging
those combinations would pose too much antitrust risk, said
another person familiar with the matter. ADM, the world’s
biggest grain processor, owns a stake in Singapore-based Wilmar.
Representatives at ADM and Cargill declined to comment.  Gavilon took its current form when  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  sold
its trading and merchandising operations for about $2.75
billion, including debt, to Ospraie, Soros Fund Management LLC
and private-equity firm General Atlantic LLC in 2008. ConAgra
had acquired Gavilon predecessor Peavey Co. in 1982.  Gavilon has annual earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of about $600 million, and could
sell for seven to eight times earnings, the people said. Some
potential bidders may press for more details about the company
than they received in an offering memorandum distributed earlier
this year, said one of these people.  The company also runs a large energy-trading business,
which would likely trade at a lower valuation than the rest of
the operations, said two people working for potential buyers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  