-- Geithner Discusses Tax Overhaul With Six U.S. Company Leaders
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-03-06T22:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/geithner-discusses-tax-overhaul-with-six-u-s-company-leaders.html
Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner
discussed President Barack Obama’s proposed corporate tax
overhaul with executives of six U.S.-based companies including
 Macy’s Inc. (M) ,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)   The participants in today’s meeting with Geithner and
Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin were confirmed by Treasury
spokeswoman Sabrina Siddiqui. Also attending the meeting at the
Treasury Department were the chief executives of  Edison
International (EIX) ,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and  EMC Corp (EMC) .  The Treasury Department announced the meeting yesterday as
a roundtable for executives to discuss “the state of the
economy and the need for business tax reform.” Obama released a
corporate tax overhaul proposal on Feb. 22 that would reduce the
corporate rate to 28 percent from 35 percent and eliminate tax
breaks.  Obama’s plan would retain the so-called worldwide system of
taxation. That regime taxes the offshore profits of U.S.-based
multinational companies. Obama’s plan would make it harder to
defer taxes on that income.  House Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp, a  Michigan 
Republican, has proposed a shift to a so-called territorial
system of taxation that would exempt most income that companies
generate abroad from taxes in the U.S.  Companies whose operations are almost entirely domestic,
such as Cincinnati-based Macy’s, don’t have a significant stake
in international tax rules and haven’t been vocal in opposing
Obama’s proposed changes.  Meanwhile, Dow Chemical is one of the largest employers in
Camp’s hometown of Midland, Michigan. The company employs about
5,300 people in the area, according to Midland Tomorrow, a local
economic development group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  