-- Goldman Secret Greece Loan Shows Two Sinners as Client Unravels
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-03-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/goldman-secret-greece-loan-shows-two-sinners-as-client-unravels.html
Greece ’s secret loan from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was a costly mistake from the start.  On the day the 2001 deal was struck, the government owed
the bank about 600 million euros ($793 million) more than the
2.8 billion euros it borrowed, said Spyros Papanicolaou, who
took over the country’s debt-management agency in 2005. By then,
the price of the transaction, a derivative that disguised the
loan and that Goldman Sachs persuaded Greece not to test with
competitors, had almost doubled to 5.1 billion euros, he said.  Papanicolaou and his predecessor, Christoforos Sardelis,
revealing details for the first time of a contract that helped
Greece mask its growing sovereign debt to meet European Union
requirements, said the country didn’t understand what it was
buying and was ill-equipped to judge the risks or costs.  “The Goldman Sachs deal is a very sexy story between two
sinners,” Sardelis, who oversaw the swap as head of Greece’s
Public Debt Management Agency from 1999 through 2004, said in an
interview.  Goldman Sachs’s instant gain on the transaction illustrates
the dangers to clients who engage in complex, tailored trades
that lack comparable market prices and whose fees aren’t
disclosed.  Harvard University ,  Alabama ’s Jefferson County and
the German city of Pforzheim all have found themselves on the
losing end of the one-of-a-kind private deals typically pitched
to them by securities firms as means to improve their finances.  Goldman Sachs DNA  “Like the municipalities, Greece is just another example
of a poorly governed client that got taken apart,” Satyajit Das, a risk consultant and author of “Extreme Money: Masters of
the Universe and the Cult of Risk,” said in a phone interview.
“These trades are structured not to be unwound, and Goldman is
ruthless about ensuring that its interests aren’t compromised --
it’s part of the DNA of that organization.”  A gain of 600 million euros represents about 12 percent of
the $6.35 billion in revenue Goldman Sachs reported for trading
and principal investments in 2001, a  business segment  that
includes the bank’s fixed-income, currencies and commodities
division, which arranged the trade and posted record sales that
year. The unit, then run by Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, now the New
York-based bank’s chairman and chief executive officer, also
went on to post record quarterly revenue the following year.  ‘Extremely Profitable’  The Goldman Sachs transaction swapped debt issued by Greece
in dollars and yen for euros using an historical  exchange rate ,
a mechanism that implied a reduction in debt, Sardelis said. It
also used an off-market interest-rate swap to repay the loan.
Those swaps allow counterparties to exchange two forms of
interest payment, such as fixed or floating rates, referenced to
a notional amount of debt.  The trading costs on the swap rose because the deal had a
notional value of more than 15 billion euros, more than the
amount of the loan itself, said a former Greek official with
knowledge of the transaction who asked not to be identified
because the pricing was private. The size and complexity of the
deal meant that Goldman Sachs charged proportionately higher
trading fees than for deals of a more standard size and
structure, he said.  “It looks like an extremely profitable transaction for
Goldman,” said Saul Haydon Rowe, a partner in  Devon Capital
LLP , a London-based firm that advises global investors on
derivatives disputes.  Disappearing Debt  Goldman Sachs declined to comment about how much it made on
the swaps. Fiona Laffan, a spokeswoman for the firm in London,
said the agreements were executed in accordance with guidelines
provided by Eurostat, the EU’s statistical agency.  “Greece actually executed the swap transactions to reduce
its debt-to-gross-domestic-product ratio because all  member
states  were required by the Maastricht Treaty to show an
improvement in their public finances,” Laffan said in an e-
mail. “The swaps were one of several techniques that many
European governments used to meet the terms of the treaty.”  Cross-currency swaps are contracts borrowers use to convert
foreign currency debt into a domestic-currency obligation using
the market exchange rate. As first reported in 2003, Goldman
Sachs used a fictitious, historical exchange rate in the swaps
to make about 2 percent of Greece’s debt disappear from its
national accounts. To repay the 2.8 billion euros it borrowed
from the bank, Greece entered into a separate swap contract tied
to interest-rate swings.  Falling bond yields caused that bet to sour, and tweaks to
the deal failed to prevent the debt from almost doubling in size
by the time the swap was restructured in August 2005.  Greece, which last month secured a second, 130 billion-euro
bailout, is sitting on debt equal to about 160 percent of its
GDP as of last year.  Eurostat Rules  Under Eurostat accounting rules, nations were permitted
until 2008 to use so-called off-market rates in swaps to manage
their debt. Greek officials, including Sardelis, say they
learned that other EU countries such as Italy had employed
similar methods to shrink their debts, taking advantage of the
secrecy of over-the-counter derivatives compared with swaps
traded on exchanges.  Eurostat said Greece didn’t report the Goldman Sachs
transactions in 2008 when the agency told countries to restate
their accounts.  “The Greek authorities had never informed Eurostat about
this complex issue and no opinion on the accounting treatment
had been requested,” the Luxembourg-based agency said in a
statement last month.  Eurostat said it had only “general” discussions with
financial institutions on its debt and deficit guidelines when
the swap was executed in 2001. “It is possible that Goldman
Sachs asked us for general clarifications,” Eurostat said,
declining to elaborate.  Loudiadis Role  Bloomberg News filed a lawsuit at the EU’s General Court
seeking disclosure of European Central Bank documents on
Greece’s use of derivatives to hide loans. Releasing such
information could damage the commercial interests of the ECB’s
counterparties, hurt banks and markets, and undermine the
economic policy of Greece and the EU, the central bank said last
May in a response to the suit. A judgment is pending.  Sardelis, 61, and Papanicolaou, 72, said several banks,
including Goldman Sachs, made proposals to manage Greece’s debt.
The bank was represented by its top European sales executive at
the time, Addy Loudiadis. She was trusted, said Papanicolaou,
because she had helped price competitors’ derivatives and in
1999 warned the Greeks against buying a complex swap.  Sardelis, a former bank economist, described Loudiadis,
who’s based in  London , as “very professional -- a little bit
aggressive as is everyone at Goldman Sachs.”  ‘Teaser Rate’  The derivative Loudiadis offered Sardelis in 2001 was also
complex. Designed to provide a cheap way to repay 2.8 billion
euros, the swap had a “teaser rate,” or a three-year grace
period, after which Greece would have 15 years to repay Goldman
Sachs, Sardelis said. All in, the deal appeared cheap to
officials at the time, he said.  “We calculated that this had an extra cost above our
normal funding cost on the yield curve of 15 basis points,”
Sardelis said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Loudiadis, now CEO of  Rothesay Life , a Goldman Sachs unit
that insures longevity risk for U.K. corporate pension plans,
declined to comment, a company spokeswoman said.  ‘Very Bad Bet’  Sardelis said he realized three months after the deal was
signed that it was more complex than he appreciated. After the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the U.S., bond yields plunged as
stock markets sold off worldwide. That caused a mark-to-market
loss on the swap for Greece because of the formula used by
Goldman Sachs to compute Greece’s repayments over time.  “If you calculated that when we did it, it looked very
nice because the yield curve had a certain shape,” Sardelis
said. “But after Sept. 11, we realized this would be the wrong
formula. So after we discussed it with Goldman Sachs, we decided
to change to a simpler formula.”  The revised deal proposed by the bank and executed in 2002,
was to base repayments on what was then a new kind of derivative
-- an inflation swap linked to the euro-area harmonized index of
consumer prices. An inflation swap is a financial bet that pays
off according to the degree to which a consumer-price index
exceeds or falls short of a pre-specified level at maturity.  That didn’t work out well for Greece either. Bond yields
fell, pushing the government’s losses to 5.1 billion euros,
according to an analysis commissioned by Papanicolaou. It was
“a very bad bet,” he said in an interview.  “This is even more reprehensible,” Papanicolaou said of
the revised deal. “Goldman asked them to make a change that
actually made things even worse because they went into an
inflation swap.”  Confidentiality Requirement  Greece was handicapped, in part, by the terms Goldman Sachs
imposed, he said.  “Sardelis couldn’t actually do what every debt manager
should do when offered something, which is go to the market to
check the price,” said Papanicolaou, who retired in 2010. “He
didn’t do that because he was told by Goldman that if he did
that, the deal is off.”  Sardelis declined to comment about the analysis, as did
 Petros Christodoulou , director general of the debt-management
agency since February 2010.  It isn’t unusual for dealers to impose confidentiality
requirements on clients in complex transactions to prevent
traders from using the information to front-run or trade against
the bank arranging and hedging the deal, said a former official
who analyzed the swap and asked not to be named because the
details are private.  ‘Large Number’  Goldman Sachs’s initial 600 million-euro gross profit
“sounds like a large number, but you have to take into account
what the bank will be setting aside as a credit reserve, the
cost to Goldman to fund the loan and the cost of hedging the
currency component,” said  Peter Shapiro , managing director of
Swap Financial Group LLC in South Orange,  New Jersey , an
independent swaps adviser. “It’s hard to tell what the profit
margin would have been.”  The report Papanicolaou commissioned after taking over the
agency showed the repayment formula meant that Greece would have
to pay Goldman Sachs 400 million euros a year, he said. The
coupon and the mark-to-market swings on the swap prompted George Alogoskoufis, then finance minister, to decide to restructure
the deal again to limit losses, Papanicolaou said.  Loudiadis and a team of Goldman Sachs advisers returned to
 Athens  in August 2005, according to former Greek officials. The
agreement they reached to transfer the swap to  National Bank of
Greece SA  and extend the maturity to 2037 from 2019, gave the
Greeks what they wanted, Papanicolaou said.  ‘Squeeze Taxpayers’  The 5.1 billion-euro mark-to-market value of the swap was
“locked in,” Papanicolaou said. It was that politically
motivated decision to restructure and fix the increased market
value that did as much damage as the original swap, said
Sardelis, now a board member of Ethniki General Insurance Co., a
subsidiary of National Bank of Greece.  “You can’t have prudent debt management if you change all
the assumptions all the time,” he said.  Gustavo Piga, a professor of economics at University of
Rome Tor Vergata and author of “Derivatives and Public Debt
Management,” sees a different lesson.  “In secret deals, intermediaries have the upper hand and
use it to squeeze taxpayers,” Piga said in an interview. “The
bargaining power is in investment banks’ hands.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Dunbar in London at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  