-- Google Creates Hub for Buying Apps, Entertainment in One Place
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-03-06T18:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/google-creates-hub-for-buying-apps-entertainment-in-one-place.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , stepping up competition
with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  in digital media, unveiled a
site called Google Play that lets users get Android
applications, music, books and movies in one place.  The new service brings together Google’s various online
stores that feature downloadable products, said Jamie Rosenberg,
the company’s director of digital content. Mountain View,
California-based Google begins to roll out the service today on
mobile devices that run its Android operating system and will
release a Web browser-based version for personal computers.  “Now all of your media experiences with Google live in one
place,” Rosenberg said in an interview. “It can really tie it
all together for consumers.”  Google is trying to capitalize on its leadership in
Internet search and smartphone software to grab a bigger piece
of the digital-entertainment market, which is dominated by
Apple. Apple has built its iTunes music store into a source of
movies, TV shows and other content. Amazon, meanwhile, is the
biggest seller of electronic books.  Google Play will give recommendations based on what users
previously purchased, Rosenberg said. It also will make it
easier for the developers and media companies to sell their apps
and content.  Glu Mobile Inc. (GLUU) , a provider of digital games, aims to take
advantage of the unified approach, said Adam Flanders, senior
vice president of sales and marketing at the San Francisco-based
company. Users who are browsing songs or movies will be able to
find Glu’s games more easily, he said.  “They’re improving just the whole user experience,”
Flanders said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  