-- Greece Wants to Delineate Maritime Zones, Minister Says
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-03-06T16:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/greece-wants-to-delineate-maritime-zones-minister-says-1-.html
Greece  wants to delineate exclusive
maritime economic zones, while proceeding with the exploration
and exploitation of potential offshore oil and natural gas
deposits, Energy Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said.  The  United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea  allows
maritime states to establish areas, known as EEZs, which extend
from the sea bed to the surface and as far out as 200 nautical
miles (370 kilometers, 230 miles) from their territorial waters
limit. These states have the right to natural resources in the
area, including oil and gas.  “In no way is Greece willing to not exercise all its
sovereign rights and these include EEZs,” Papaconstantinou said
in a Feb. 29 interview in Athens. “EEZs are a tool Greece
intends to use, in line with its overall policy.”  Any move by Greece to try to establish an EEZ in the Aegean
Sea could raise objections from neighboring  Turkey . The two
countries have yet to agree on the size of their territorial
waters and on the delimitation of the continental shelf between
the two states. Several Greek islands in the eastern Aegean lie
only 3 nautical miles from the Turkish coast.  “For Mediterranean-area countries, EEZs will always have
areas of overlap which means you need to demarcate them within
the context of the international Law of the Sea,”
Papaconstantinou said.  ‘Possible Settlement’  Turkey believes “a possible settlement on the Aegean
issues will only be functional and lasting if it is built on a
common denominator, that is respecting fundamental rights and
legitimate interests of both countries,” according to a
 statement  on the Turkish’s Foreign Ministry’s website.  “We will proceed cautiously to negotiate delimitation of
maritime zones with our neighbors and will have these
negotiations, while at the same time moving forward with seismic
surveys and hydrocarbon exploration,” Papaconstantinou said.
“These talks will involve all the countries where there are
potential overlaps.”  Greece invited investors on Jan. 2 to bid to explore and
exploit hydrocarbon reserves in two offshore blocks and one on
land. The country received applications from eight companies on
March 2 to conduct seismic surveys in the Ionian Sea and south
of the island of Crete. Data from these surveys may lead to a
bid for investors to explore for oil and gas in 10 to 15
offshore blocks. Greece also plans a tender this year for
exploration in 10 to 12 additional terrestrial blocks.  Law of the Sea  Papapconstantinou said the difficulty with Turkey is that
it isn’t a signatory to the Law of the Sea Convention. Greece
will restart discussions with Egypt and  Libya  and will talk to
Albania and  Italy , where such agreements are in place, while it
is “co-operating closely” with Cyprus, he said.  Cyprus has established EEZs with its neighbors, excluding
Turkey, which says some of the areas are within Turkish
territory. Greece should take similar practical steps to sign
agreements with neighboring countries on maritime borders, Greek
New Democracy Party leader Antonis Samaras, whose party leads in
opinion polls, said Feb. 20. Greece is due to hold elections in
April or May.  Noble Energy Inc (NBL) , based in Houston,  Texas , which holds a
license to explore and exploit gas in Block 12 of Cyprus’s
offshore territory, said on Dec. 28 that it discovered as much
as 8 trillion cubic feet of gas off the island’s south coast.
The geological conditions in this field may extend west to south
of Crete, Papaconstantinou said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in  Athens  at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  