-- Libyan Tribal Leaders Declare Semi-Autonomous Region in East
-- B y   S a l e h   S a r r a r   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-03-06T13:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/libyan-tribal-leaders-declare-semi-autonomous-region-in-east.html
Libyan (OPCRLIBY)  tribal leaders declared the
formation of a semi-autonomous region in the oil-rich east of
the country a day after thousands rallied against the plan and
the central government struggles with reconstruction.  The self-governing region of Barqa, or Cyrenaica, will
administer itself and follow the national government in areas
such as defense and foreign affairs, said Abdul Hakk Mabrouk, a
speaker at the conference in Benghazi to declare the semi-
autonomous area.  “The federation does not mean division, but
organization,” Abdul Moniem Al-Obeidi, the organizer of the
conference and a member of the influential Al-Obeidat tribe,
said today. “Federation means fragmentation of the central
government and not the nation.”  Prime Minister Abdurrahim el-Keib has rejected calls for a
federation, saying such change isn’t necessary because his new
administration is working to decentralize government and
services. He spoke on state television yesterday.  Hundreds gathered yesterday in Tripoli, the capital, and
Benghazi, the second-largest city, to condemn the plan that
would transform Libya into a federation, according to state-run
television. The demonstrators said they fought to depose  Muammar Qaddafi  to create a unified Libya.  Oil Reserves  Libya’s ruling National Transitional Council declared
victory over Qaddafi’s forces on Oct. 23, three days after his
death at the hands of rebel fighters. While Libya’s oil
reserves, the largest in  Africa , may help the government rebuild
the country’s economy quickly, the administration faces the
hurdle of uniting the groups that rose up against Qaddafi’s
regime and dealing with the remainder of his supporters.  El-Keib has proposed an administrative division of the
North African country that would create 12 governorates, his
office said. The proposal gives each governorate a budget
allocation proportionate to its population, with Tripoli getting
30 percent and Benghazi 25 percent.  Historically, tensions between east and west in  Libya 
result from rivalries among the country’s scores of tribes and
from Qaddafi’s efforts to divide the country’s riches and power
among the tribes that supported him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;
Saleh Sarrar in Tripoli via the Dubai newsroom at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  