-- Michigan Voters May Cancel Emergency Manager Law to Stop Detroit Takeover
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-03-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/michigan-voters-may-cancel-emergency-manager-law-to-stop-detroit-takeover.html
A law that would let Michigan take
over cash-poor  Detroit  may be repealed by a referendum even as
the home of  General Motors Co. (GM)  hurtles toward payless paydays.  Michigan’s (STOMI1)  largest city will run out of money in two months
and its deficit will balloon to $270 million by June 30 without
changes, according to a City Council report. By March 28, a
review team may recommend that Republican Governor  Rick Snyder 
appoint an emergency manager who could cut the mostly Democratic
city’s costs and void union contracts to avoid that fate.  The 2011 law that empowers the governor is “a Frankenstein
monster that deprives people of their rights for self-governance
on a local level,” said Greg Bowens, spokesman for the Stand Up
For Democracy coalition. “The Republicans have achieved what
terrorists crashing a plane into a building couldn’t, and that
is dismantling our democracy.”  The group last week submitted to the state what leaders
said are 226,637 signatures. If 161,305 are validated in 60
days, the measure would be suspended until voters decide in
November whether to reinstate it. If the question makes the
ballot, it would be the eighth state referendum before U.S. 
voters in November -- the most since at least 1980, said 
Jennie Bowser, senior fellow at the Denver-based National 
Conference of State Legislatures.  Direct Democracy  Across the Midwest, voters have taken state policy into
their own hands. Last year, Ohio Governor  John Kasich  was stung
when voters repealed a law he backed that restricted collective
bargaining for public employees. Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker 
may face a recall election -- 1 million petition signatures
support his ouster -- over a similar law.  The drive to repeal Michigan’s law began in June, spurred
by unionists who objected to its broad authority over local
governments.  Four cities are under emergency managers: Flint, Pontiac,
 Benton Harbor  and Ecorse. All but Flint’s manager were appointed
originally by Snyder’s Democratic predecessor, Jennifer Granholm, under an earlier version of the law. Public schools in
Detroit and  Highland Park  also are under managers.  On Jan. 16, a crowd estimated at almost 1,000 demonstrated
against the 2011 measure at Snyder’s home in a gated subdivision
near  Ann Arbor . Last week, about 200 people marched to
Michigan’s secretary of state offices in Lansing to deliver
petitions to repeal the law, some singing the civil-rights
anthem “We Shall Overcome.”  Detroit is 83 percent black; Snyder is white.  Talking It Out  Snyder has said he wants to avoid an emergency manager in
Detroit, and would prefer an agreement giving Mayor Dave Bing
broader authority.  Bing in February negotiated wage and benefit concessions
with unions that represent most of Detroit’s 11,000 employees.
He also began firing 1,000 workers as part of a plan to save
$360 million through June 30, 2013.  The agreements cut pay 10 percent for all employees except
police and firefighters. None have been ratified by union
members. Even if they are, that may not save enough money,
according to the council report.  “I don’t see anywhere near the savings needed in the short
term or the long term,” City Council member Gary Brown said of
the concessions. “We’re spending $360,000 a day more than we
take in.”  Bowens of Stand Up for Democracy said Detroit’s financial
collapse was caused by debtholders and scanty state funding --
not workers. Debt should be refinanced or forgiven, he said.  Citizens First  “The people should get paid before the bank,” he said.
“And with an emergency manager, the banks get paid before the
people.”  Bowens said a federal  bankruptcy court  would more fairly
spread losses to include debtholders.  Detroit has at least $12 billion in long-term debt with no
plan to reduce it, state Treasurer Andy Dillon said in a Dec. 21
memo to Snyder. Dillon cited Detroit’s below-investment-grade
bond ratings -- Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service, BB by
Standard& Poor’s and BB- by  Fitch Ratings  -- as more reason for
the full-scale financial review now under way.  “City officials are either incapable or unwilling to
manage”  finances, Dillon wrote.  Ratification of the union concessions, along with Bing’s
plan, will resolve the crisis, said Naomi Patton, a spokeswoman
for the mayor.  ‘Powerful Tool’  The potential repeal puts pressure on the city to devise
solutions, said Brad Coulter, 51, a municipal-finance consultant
with O’Keefe & Associates in  Bloomfield Hills , which provides
financial analysis and advice. The threat of an emergency
manager gives a mayor leverage, he said.  “If the law is repealed, you lose a powerful tool to avoid
bankruptcy,” he said.  Economists such as former state Treasurer Robert Kleine
have said Detroit’s travails are caused by falling population
and tax revenue, including cuts in state aid. Its population
fell by one-quarter to about 714,000 in the past decade,
according to the 2010  U.S. Census . Almost 2 million inhabited
the city in the 1950s.  State Representative Al Pscholka said that bankruptcy might
leave the state liable for Detroit’s debts. The west  Michigan 
Republican, who sponsored the emergency manager law, said in a
statement last week that it gives local communities more say in
resolving financial crises.  The law protects taxpayers from government mismanagement,
he said: “There is no fine print, no other motive.”  After The Fall  It’s unclear what would happen if the emergency manager law
were repealed. State treasury officials have said the previous
weaker law would take effect while opponents say a repeal would
nullify all emergency managers.  Gutting the law would harm distressed cities, said Louis Schimmel, 74, emergency manager for Pontiac. Schimmel and his
predecessor disbanded the police and fire departments, though
the city still faces an estimated $6 million shortfall this
year, Schimmel said.  He said that without the clout of the law known as Public
Act 4 he could not repair it.  “I have not seen the people who are against Act 4 tell me
what they would do in place of it,” Schimmel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  