-- Limbaugh Radio Show Faces New-Media Backlash as Advertisers Flee
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-06T13:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/limbaugh-radio-show-faces-backlash-from-social-media-as-advertisers-flee.html
Rush Limbaugh faced rising pressure
from critics who are using new media to keep advertisers away
from his long-running radio show.  At least 10 companies, including online publisher  AOL Inc. (AOL) ,
have dropped the most-popular U.S. talk-radio show after
Limbaugh called Georgetown University law student Sandra Fluke a
“prostitute” and a “slut.” Fluke appeared before Congress on
Feb. 23 to speak in favor of President Barack Obama’s policy
requiring insurers to provide  birth control  to women.  Much of the pressure on advertisers has come from online
activists using Twitter and Facebook to mobilize against
Limbaugh. They see undermining the program’s economic viability
as the way to force distributor  Clear Channel Communications
Inc. (CCMO) ’s  Premiere Radio Networks (3069Q)  to stop syndicating the show.  “The tactic of just asking advertisers has been a very
successful one,” said Krystal Ball, a 30-year-old MSNBC
commentator who started a website called boycottrush.org. “So
as long as that is successful, we’ll continue.”  Ball, a Democrat, ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 2010.
The campaign targeting Limbaugh is led by groups like Media
Matters for America and the Ohio Democratic Party.  “The social media world has really exploded,” said Terry O’Neill, president of the National Organization for Women. “I
think Rush Limbaugh is going to go down over this.”  More big companies, including  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , owner
of the namesake retailer and discounter Kmart, insurer  Geico
Corp. (156714Q)  and tractor maker  Deere & Co. (DE) , are taking steps to ensure
their advertisements stop appearing on Limbaugh’s show.  Deere Dealers  Ads were placed on the program by Deere dealers through a
network and not by the manufacturer, said Kenneth Golden,
director of global public relations for the Moline, Illinois-
based company.  “Deere is reviewing the placement of these advertisements,
as the company has not chosen to be a current advertiser,”
Golden said.  Instructions to keep Sears and Kmart ads off of Limbaugh’s
show weren’t followed, according to Chris Brathwaite, a
spokesman for their  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based parent. The
company doesn’t buy media based on political affiliations,
Brathwaite said.  “Sears and Kmart did not intentionally advertise on the
 Rush Limbaugh  show,” according to a company statement. “ Sears
Holdings  has taken actions to ensure our ads do not run on this
show.”  Geico has banned advertising on Limbaugh’s programs since
2004, according to a customer-service e-mail.  “On occasion, a local station may mistakenly run a GEICO
ad in the wrong time slot,” the e-mail said. “We are directing
our ad buyers to make sure that does not happen.”  ‘Leftists Who Despise’  Clear Channel, based in  San Antonio , didn’t respond to
phone calls and e-mails seeking comment. The company was taken
private in a buyout led by Bain Capital Partners LLC and Thomas
H. Lee Partners LP in July 2008.  A small number of shares of its parent, CC Media Holdings
Inc., are traded publicly. CC Media lost 7.1 percent yesterday
to $6.04 and has climbed 38 percent so far  this year .  Limbaugh, 61, apologized to Fluke on his website on March 3
and on his radio program yesterday, saying he “acted too much
like the leftists who despise me.”  He addressed the advertiser flight, telling listeners:
“What we’re gonna do is replace those that leave, those that no
longer want access to you, those advertisers who no longer want
your business, fine. We’ll replace them. It’s simple, really.”  Short Memory  Besides AOL, companies that have suspended advertising on
the show include retailer  Stamps.com Inc. (STMP)  and online service
LegalZoom.com Inc. Hawaii’s KPUA radio station also dropped the
program.  Limbaugh averaged 13.2 million listeners a week as of
spring 2011, according to ratings supplied by Horizon Media
Inc., an ad planning and placement company.  Robert Thompson , a professor of television, radio and media
studies at  Syracuse University  in Syracuse,  New York , said he
expects the Limbaugh controversy to blow over as new scandals
overshadow this one.  “It only becomes a problem if there aren’t other
advertisers to take their place,” Thompson said. “American
culture has an uncanny ability to dissolve this kind of stuff,
especially with Limbaugh.”  The controversy flared from a debate over the Obama
administration’s decision to require health insurers to provide
birth control to women. Fluke, a past president of Law Students
for Reproductive Justice, wasn’t allowed to testify at the
Republican-controlled committee meeting. She addressed a panel
put together by Democrat  Nancy Pelosi .  As long as the controversy burns, advertisers may be
reluctant to associate with Limbaugh’s program, said Steve Piluso, head of strategic planning at PHD Media, a unit of
advertising agency  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)   “Some clients will think twice about being in that
environment,” Piluso said in a telephone interview. “If you’re
a packaged goods company targeting women, using derogatory
language, that makes brands uncomfortable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  