-- IMF Sees Portugal Market Return in 2013 With No Bondholder Cuts
-- B y   D a v i d   T w e e d   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2012-03-06T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/imf-sees-portugal-returning-to-bond-market-in-2013-with-no-investor-losses.html
Portugal  should be able to return to
bond markets next year and private creditors aren’t expected to
take writedowns on the nation’s debt, the head of the
International Monetary Fund’s aid mission to the country said.  “Our baseline expectation remains that Portugal will be
able to access markets late next year,”  Abebe Aemro Selassie,
who is taking over supervision of the IMF portion of the
international bailout plan for Portugal, said yesterday in an
interview with Bloomberg television. “This will not be easy.”  The government is cutting spending and raising taxes to
meet terms of the 78 billion-euro ($103 billion) aid plan
arranged by the IMF and the European Union. Portugal is
determined to address the bailout guidelines and return to 
bond markets in 2013, according to Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho .  “I’m sure in a few months when the results of the current
year are stronger in the eyes of the analysts, Portugal will
become a more favorable case of success,” Passos Coelho said in
a separate interview with Bloomberg television yesterday.  Portugal’s borrowing costs have increased since the bailout
was requested last year. The  difference in yield  that investors
demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds instead of German bunds
was at 12.02 percentage points yesterday, up from 5.11 when
former Socialist Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  sought the rescue
on April 6. On June 6, the day after Passos Coelho defeated
Socrates to take power, it was 6.70 percentage points.  ‘Reassure Investors’  The IMF’s Selassie said the government “needs to establish
more credibility” and “reassure investors.”  “There is a bit of a dissonance between the elevated
levels of spreads right now and what has been happening on the
ground,” Selassie said in the interview.  Developments in  Greece  may be having a bearing on increased
spreads, Selassie said, although “the two countries have very
different debt profiles.” The IMF is expecting Portugal’s debt
to gross domestic product to “stabilize around 115 percent in
2013 and “begin a gradual decline after that,” he said.  Even after private sector involvement -- known as PSI --
Greek debt to GDP doesn’t come down to 120 percent until 2020,
he said. “The countries have very, very different debt profiles
so we have no expectation of PSI in Portugal,” according to the
IMF official.  Selassie said Portugal is addressing its imbalances and
that the government is undertaking structural reforms.  The current account deficit has improved more than “we had
projected but we still expect a more gradual improvement of the
current account deficit” and it may be another three years
before the deficit narrows “significantly.”  Selassie said Portugal’s challenges include addressing a
lack of competiveness as a means to enhance growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .
David Tweed in London at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  