-- India’s Cotton-Export Ban Should Be Lifted, Minister Says
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-03-06T11:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/india-s-cotton-export-ban-should-be-lifted-minister-says-1-.html
India ’s farm ministry wants a ban on
cotton exports to be revoked as the curbs will hurt farmers in
the world’s second-biggest producer, minister  Sharad Pawar  said.
Futures surged for a second day to the highest level in more
than two weeks.  The ban will lower domestic prices and hurt planting
prospects in next crop season, Pawar told reporters in New Delhi
today. The ministry has written to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
to rescind the ban announced by the commerce ministry yesterday,
he said. The curbs are to prevent depletion of domestic
supplies, according to the textiles ministry.  Pawar joins the Cotton Association of India in calling for
an end to the ban that may help stem a 57 percent slide in
futures in  New York  in the past year and trigger contract
disputes with buyers from  China  to Bangladesh. Prices surged to
a record last year after India restricted shipments of cotton
and yarn, boosting costs for  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and J.C. Penney Co.  “Prices may be supported by expectation that cheap Indian
cotton won’t be available in the future,” Dong Shuzhi, a trader
at PKU Founder Commodities Co., said by phone from  Shanghai .  Shipments Surge  The May-delivery contract jumped as much as 2.2 percent to
94.24 cents a pound today on ICE Futures U.S., the highest price
since Feb. 17. Futures surged by the most in nine months
yesterday and the exchange boosted margins by 76 percent.   India banned  exports  after sales surged to nearly 9.4
million bales of 170 kilograms each, more than the surplus of
8.4 million bales estimated by the government. Traders
registered to ship 12 million bales and the rush to secure
permits with letters of credit being opened between the same
buyers and sellers was “indicative of a tendency of hoarding in
bonded warehouses abroad,” the textiles ministry said.  A panel of ministers will meet on March 9 to review the
ban, supply and demand in the domestic market, Kiran Dhingra,
textiles secretary, told reporters in New Delhi. She ruled out a
ban on exports of cotton yarn. The textile mills are carrying
the lowest cotton inventory in the past decade, Dhingra said.  Bangladesh Textiles  The ban may affect  Bangladesh ’s textiles industry as it
depends on India for supplies, Jahangir Alamin, president of
Bangladesh Textile Mills Association, said in a phone interview
from Dhaka. “India has always been inconsistent in cotton
exports,” he said.  Bangladesh imports 30 percent of its annual cotton needs
from India. the country consumes 3.7 million bales of cotton a
year, Alamin said.  Production in India will be lower than earlier forecast
after diseases cut yields in the states of Maharashtra and
 Andhra Pradesh , according to the Cotton Advisory Board. The
harvest may reach 34.5 million bales of 170 kilograms each in
the year that began Oct. 1, against 35.6 million bales estimated
on Nov. 15, it said on Jan. 24.  Fewer Plantings  Farmers will be less inclined to plant cotton next year as
local prices have slumped after the ban, said Parth Mehta, joint
managing director of Bhadresh Trading Corp., an exporter.  “April is the time when the farmers will start planting
and if they are getting prices below the government guaranteed
levels, which farmer in his right mind will want to sow
cotton?” he said. “There is definitely going to be a huge
impact on the acreage that is going to go under cotton.”  India’s government buys cotton at guaranteed prices to
guard farmers against distress sales in the open market.  Futures on the National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange of
India Ltd. in Mumbai plunged 8.5 percent in February, the most
since June. Prices fell by the daily limit of 4 percent
yesterday and rebounded 1.7 percent to 829 rupees ($16.5) per 20
kilograms at 5:11 p.m. in Mumbai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  