-- India May Boost Iron Ore Exports to China After Freight Rate Cut
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-03-06T10:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/india-may-boost-iron-ore-exports-to-china-after-freight-rate-cut.html
India, the world’s third-largest
exporter of  iron ore , may boost shipments to China in 2012 after
the federal government cut freight charges on the commodity to
be transported by rail to ports for overseas sales.  Rates were lowered by as much as 30 percent to 1,125 rupees
($22.5) a metric ton starting today, the  Indian Railways  said in
a statement on its website, without giving a reason. This is the
first reduction in the charges in at least two years.  The cut is bullish for Indian exports and is an indication
that the government has started loosening controls on the
market, said  Thomas Baldwin , an iron-ore, freight and steel
trader with Deutsche Bank AG in  London . Most of the iron ore
from India will find its way to China, he said.  The move will benefit companies including  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) ,
India’s largest iron ore exporter, and state-owned  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) ,
the nation’s top producer. Asia’s second-fastest growing major
economy increased freight rates and taxes on iron ore over the
past two years to curb exports as prices of the steelmaking
ingredient surged globally.  “The rate cut is welcome, but more needs to be done on the
tax front, which is still very high,” R.K. Sharma, secretary
general at the Federation of Indian Mineral Industries, said
today without giving an estimate of how much shipments can rise.  India increased levies on local transport of iron ore by as
much as 220 percent since March 15, 2010, to ensure supplies for
domestic users. Export taxes on all grades of iron ore were
raised twice in less than a year to 30 percent on Dec. 30.  Export Forecast  The federation forecast on Jan. 2 that India’s iron ore
exports would drop by 50 percent to less than 50 million tons in
the year ending March 31 from 97.65 million tons a year earlier
because of higher taxes and freight charges.  The price of 62 percent-content iron ore delivered at
Tianjin port in  China   averaged  $160 a ton this fiscal year,
compared with $158 a ton last year, according to Steel Business
Briefing. China is India’s biggest overseas iron ore market.  Iron ore demand from China’s iron and steel industry may be
1.13 billion tons by the end of 2015, the Ministry of Industry
and  Information Technology  said on Dec. 7. An estimated 63
percent of the 1 billion tons of ore shipped by sea in 2011 went
to China, according to UBS AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  