-- India Stock Futures Swing Between Gain, Loss on Election
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-03-06T04:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/india-s-sensex-swings-between-gain-loss-before-poll-result.html
Indian stocks swung between gains
and losses as investors await the outcome of state elections
that may provide an indication of support for the government’s
economic agenda.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the nation’s most valuable
company, lost 0.9 percent.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the biggest
truckmaker, climbed 1 percent.  The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, climbed 0.3
percent to 17,410.79 at 10:02 a.m. in Mumbai, after changing
directions at least five times.  The results of regional elections are due today after
voting in five states, including  Uttar Pradesh , the most
populous. The northern state, with 200 million people, is the
nation’s biggest political prize, electing about a seventh of
lawmakers in parliament’s lower house. A strong showing would
boost the Congress coalition’s ability to overcome setbacks
triggered by graft scandals and protests, and aid its goal of
pouring $1 trillion into revamping infrastructure.  “The government has significant political capital riding
on this election and exit polls over the weekend indicate the
results may be below market consensus, as the Congress Party’s
showing could be bad,” Gautam Chhaochharia, an analyst at UBS
AG, wrote in a note today. “The completion of the elections
could be a positive catalyst as the government may accelerate
implementation of key projects.”  Among Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s plans are the opening
of the retail industry to companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) , an initiative halted in December amid protests over likely
job losses. The  Supreme Court  last month scrapped 122 mobile-
phone permits, whose sale in 2008 sparked India’s biggest
corruption probe, and Singh failed to win passage in December of
an anti-corruption bill.  Key Announcements  Investors are also watching key policy announcements next
week. The  Reserve Bank  of India reviews  interest rates  on March
15, a day before Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee presents the
budget. The central bank cut on Jan. 24 the amount of deposits
lenders need to set aside as reserves for the first time since
2009, seeking to ease a cash squeeze, and indicated it may cut
interest rates if inflation continues to slow.  The bank raised rates by a record 13 times from March 2010
to October last year to restrain price rises. Government data
showed on Feb. 14 that inflation eased to the slowest in more
than two years in January. Still, an 8.7 percent jump in  oil
prices  last month fanned concerns persistent inflation and a
widening fiscal deficit may curb the RBI’s scope to cut rates.  Fiscal Gap  India’s fiscal deficit exceeded the full-year target in the
10 months through January. It may surge to 6.1 percent of gross
domestic product this fiscal year,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and
 Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB)  forecast last week, more than Finance
Minister Mukherjee’s aim of 4.6 percent.  The S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange
gained 0.4 percent to 5,303.15.  “Indian markets may be volatile over the next two weeks,
with high crude prices not helping,” Chhaochharia wrote. “We
remain positive on Indian markets based on improved policy and
governance after the elections, monetary easing, and the
earnings-cut cycle bottoming.”  The central bank may cut banks’ reserve ratio by a further
50 basis points on or before the March 15 meeting, he wrote.  Reliance Industries, owner of the world’s largest refining
complex, retreated 0.9 percent to 791.25 rupees. Tata Motors
climbed 1.3 percent to 277.65 rupees.  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) ,
an aluminum producer, sank 2.7 percent to 135.4 rupees.  Overseas  funds  bought a net  6.02 billion rupees  ($122
million) of equities on March 2, raising total investments this
year to 371 billion rupees, according to the market regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  