-- India’s Ban on Cotton Exports May Unravel Deals After 2011 Disputes Surge
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-03-06T16:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/india-s-ban-on-cotton-exports-may-unravel-deals-after-2011-disputes-surged.html
A halt in cotton exports by  India ,
the world’s second-biggest shipper, may boost contract disputes
after arbitration cases surged to a record in 2011 following the
slump in prices from the all-time high, analysts said.  Yesterday, India effectively revoked export certificates
for as much as 2.6 million bales. The nation banned shipments
after sales reached 9.4 million bales in the year that began
Oct. 1, 12 percent more than an estimated surplus. Cotton surged
by the most in nine months on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , and
the exchange boosted margins by 76 percent.  In 2011, the U.K.-based International Cotton Association
got 242 requests for technical  arbitration , more than five times
the yearly average and double the record in 2008. From Jan. 1 to
mid-February, the group received 41 cases, Nicky Simon, a
spokeswoman, said last month in an e-mail.  More defaults probably will involve “Indian merchants to
mills outside of India,” Jordan Lea, the chairman of
Greenville, South Carolina-based Eastern Trading Co., said in an
e-mail. “I understand that most of the Indian cotton that was
sold, but yet unshipped, is owed to China.”  Registration Certificates  About 12 million bales had been registered for export, Prem Malik, the deputy chairman of Confederation of the Indian
Textile Industry, said yesterday. The government said in a
 statement  that “export against registration certificates
already issued” won’t be allowed.  An India bale weighs 170 kilograms (375 pounds). China is
the top importer, and the U.S. is the biggest exporter. Jordan
of Eastern Trading is the former president of the American
Cotton Shippers Association.  India’s farm ministry has asked Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh  to rescind the export ban announced by the commerce
ministry.  Sharad Pawar , the farm minister, said today that the
curbs will drive domestic prices lower and hurt planting
prospects next season.  Cotton futures for May delivery fell 0.5 percent to 91.77
cents a pound at 11:40 a.m. on ICE. Earlier, the price climbed
as much as 2.2 percent to 94.24 cents, the highest for a most-
active contract since Feb. 17.  Yesterday, the fiber jumped by the exchange limit of 4
cents, or 4.5 percent, to 92.23 cents, the biggest gain since
May 31.  Glencore Loss  Before today, the price tumbled 58 percent from a record
$2.197 on March 7. Glencore International Plc said yesterday
that its agricultural-trading unit had a loss of $8 million in
the second half of 2011 following an “unprecedented cotton
market,” compared with profit of $659 million a year earlier.  “The cotton industry is at a crossroads,” Antonio Esteve,
the president of the International Cotton Association, said in a
statement on Jan. 10. “It is easy to succumb to the attraction
of short-term gains, but history shows that this will create
irreparable damage that will affect the long-term economic
sustainability of the cotton-supply chain.”  Most of the 2011 defaults occurred in Bangladesh, Vietnam,
Indonesia, Thailand and  China , Bill May, the current president
of the Memphis, Tennessee-based U.S. cotton shipping group, said
in an e-mail on Feb. 14.  India’s move yesterday sent “foreign buyers, particularly
Chinese, scrambling,”  Andy Ryan , a senior risk manager at INTL
FCStone in Nashville,  Tennessee , said yesterday in a report.  “At the end of the day, India has exported more cotton
already than we thought they might all year,” Lea of Eastern
Trading said.  ICE said yesterday in a statement that the minimum cash
 deposit  for speculative cotton-futures trading will increase by
$1,430 to $3,300 effective tomorrow for a contract of 50,000
pounds (22,680 kilograms).  “Small traders are going to get out,” Derrick Lewis, a
trader at ClearTrade Commodities in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “With India halting exports, we may have another
run-up in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  