-- Energy Website ‘FracFocus’ Praised by U.S. Agency Chief
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-03-06T16:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/industry-s-fracking-website-praised-by-u-s-agency-writing-rules.html
The website used by the  energy
industry  to track the chemicals employed in hydraulic fracturing
won praise from the Obama administration official responsible
for writing rules for oil and gas production on federal lands.  The Bureau of Land Management is developing regulations
that would ensure fracking, by injecting millions of gallons of
water, chemicals and sand into underground rock to free oil and
gas, doesn’t pollute drinking-water supplies.  The Interior Department unit, led by  Bob Abbey , plans to
require companies such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  to list
substances they use in producing oil or natural gas on federal
lands. The  American Petroleum Institute , which represents
companies, has said producers disclose the chemicals on a
website called  FracFocus , and rules are unnecessary.  “FracFocus has worked well for disclosure of chemicals,”
Abbey said today at a House Appropriations Committee hearing in
Washington. “Fracking technology is a tremendous, tremendous
tool for this nation and to the industry to allow us to continue
to make progress to reduce our dependence on foreign fuels.”  Abbey said the U.S. agency plans to adopt some industry
disclosure practices, without elaborating.  The Washington-based Environmental Working Group, backing a
detailed disclosure on a website and in mail to people living
near fracking sites, said some chemicals disclosed by the
companies are known to cause cancer or harm the human
reproduction system.  Fracking is used for about 90 percent of drilling on public
lands, Abbey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  