-- Minorities Get Harsher Discipline in U.S. Schools, Survey Shows
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-03-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/minorities-get-harsher-discipline-in-u-s-schools-survey-shows.html
Black and Hispanic schoolchildren
are more likely to be disciplined than white peers and are
taught by lower-paid and less experienced teachers, according to
federal data being released today for the first time.  Black children made up 18 percent of students in a survey
of U.S. schools while accounting for 35 percent of those
suspended once, according to the U.S. Department of Education’s
Office for  Civil Rights . Black students are more than 3 1/2
times as likely to be suspended or expelled than their white
classmates, the survey showed.  “The undeniable truth is that the everyday educational
experience for too many students of color violates the principle
of equity at the heart of the American promise,” Education
Secretary  Arne Duncan  said in a telephone briefing with
reporters. “It is our collective duty to change that.”  The Education Department is releasing the information, the
second of a two-part study, before an audience of civil rights
and education groups at  Howard University  in  Washington  today.
Its first report last year showed that blacks and Hispanics have
less access to rigorous classes such as calculus.  The “historic” data in today’s report will give schools,
parents and others ammunition to fight inequities in education,
Duncan said. He cautioned against reaching the conclusion that
schools were discriminating against students and urged officials
to come up with ways to address the disparities.  School-Related Arrests  Teachers serving elementary schools with the most black and
Hispanic students were paid an average of $51,714 a year, $2,251
less than teachers at schools with the lowest enrollment of
children from those minority groups, the  survey  showed. In  New
York City , the disparity was $8,222 and in Philadelphia,
$14,699.  Lower-paid teachers tend to be younger and less
experienced, Duncan said.  More than 70 percent of students involved in school-related
arrests or referrals to  law enforcement  were Hispanic or black,
the survey also found.  Students with disabilities were more than twice as likely
to be suspended than their non-disabled peers and represented 69
percent of those who are subject to physical restraint, the
Education Department said.  The data, available down to the individual school level,
was collected from more than 72,000 schools serving 85 percent
of students in the 2009-2010 school year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  