-- Lira Weakens Most in a Month on Greece Debt Swap, Growth Concern
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-03-06T16:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/lira-weakens-for-fourth-day-on-greece-debt-swap-growth-concern.html
The lira fell to its lowest in more
than a month on concern the Greek-debt writedown plan won’t
succeed and slowing growth will prove detrimental to Turkey’s
exports.  The currency depreciated 1 percent to 1.7890 per dollar,
the weakest level since Jan. 30, as of 5:07 p.m. in Istanbul.
 Yields (BENCH)  on the two-year benchmark debt advanced for a fourth day,
up 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 9.40 percent,
according to a  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK)  index.  Greece  expects bondholders to accept a one-time offer to
write off about 100 billion euros ($140 billion) of Greek debt
and is ready to force them to participate, if necessary, Finance
Minister Evangelos Venizelos said March 5 in a Bloomberg
Television interview in  Athens . Private investors that so far
declared their participation in Greece’s debt restructuring hold
about 20 percent of the bonds involved in a swap deal that ends
March 8.  “Talk that PSI participation rate is projected to be less
than 70 percent triggered the sales,” Sant Manukyan, a
strategist at Is Investment, the broker unit if  Turkiye Is
Bankasi AS (ISCTR) , in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note.  The euro area’s fourth quarter gross domestic product
contracted 0.3 percent from the third quarter, the European
Union’s statistics office said today. Exports fell 0.4 percent
after a 1.4 percent gain in the previous three months, while
household spending declined 0.4 percent and investment slid 0.7
percent. About 42 percent of  Turkey ’s exports go to the EU.  Growth Slows  Data yesterday showed the U.S. factory orders decreased for
the first time in three months and  China  lowered its growth
target to 7.5 percent.  Turkey’s inflation rate fell for the first time in five
months, reaching 10.4 percent in February from a three-year peak
of 10.6 percent a month earlier, the statistics agency in Ankara
said on its website yesterday. The central bank’s target for
2012 inflation is 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  