-- Ireland Must Grit Its Teeth and Approve the EU Fiscal Deal: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-06T00:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/ireland-must-grit-its-teeth-and-approve-eu-fiscal-stability-treaty-view.html
When Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
announced last week that the new fiscal agreement with the
European Union would be put to a popular vote, he said it was a
chance to reaffirm the nation’s commitment to the euro.  Irish voters may see it differently. After several years of
great economic  pain , their infatuation with the euro has, let’s
say, cooled. They are in no mood for affirmation, and the vote
is a chance for them to say, enough is enough.  This week Europe’s financial markets are focused on efforts
to get private holders of Greek bonds to accept the terms of the
proposed restructuring. If that goes well, attention will turn
again to Ireland. The Irish honor the principle that
constitutional changes should be put to referendum, and the
budget rules just negotiated by EU governments as part of the
union’s bailout plans would seem to qualify.  Irish voters face a quandary. They have good reason to shun
the agreement -- but if they do, it will be another big setback
for them and for the EU’s efforts to revive the European
economy.  Ireland’s desire to ground constitutional commitments to
 Europe  in popular consent is admirable. It’s a shame that so few
other European countries have taken the same trouble -- and as a
result may yet see this economic calamity spiral into a crisis
of political legitimacy. In addition, the fiscal rules that
Ireland will be voting on happen to be badly designed.
Governments are promising to keep so-called structural budget
 deficits  below 0.5 percent of gross domestic product. That
target is far too tight and inflexible.  Perhaps, then, Ireland’s voters should just say “No”? If
they could send the fiscal agreement back to the drawing board
by doing so, that option would be worth considering.  Unfortunately, they can’t. Unlike in previous referendums,
where an Irish “yes” was needed for planned EU-wide changes to
go ahead, this deal goes forward with or without Ireland’s
approval. An Irish “no” would release the country from new and
unduly restrictive fiscal targets, but would probably also
exclude it from further EU financial support.  That is too high a price, however tempting a protest vote
might seem. Ireland has made impressive progress in curbing its
public borrowing and restoring its international competitiveness
through wage  restraint . Market assessments of its economic
prospects are improving. It may regain full access to the
private  capital market  before long without further support --
but denying itself that support in advance would make its debts
riskier, and would therefore be self-defeating.  There’s another point for the Irish to bear in mind. The
severity of the fiscal pact, though in one way cause for
concern, could also prove a blessing. If Europe’s economies
deteriorate again, the new rules will probably prove
unenforceable. It wouldn’t be the first time that binding EU
budget commitments proved to be less than binding.  Opinion polls since the referendum was announced suggest
that Irish voters in fact understand all this. Despite their new
reservations about the euro and its works, the majority is
intending to vote “yes.”  Meanwhile, the prospect of a referendum may give the Irish
government extra leverage in its continuing negotiations with
the EU. Dublin should not be shy about using it. Although the
fiscal pact will go ahead regardless, other EU governments would
rather keep Ireland on board than risk the further uncertainty
that a falling-out would cause. It would be a good thing, for
instance, if the EU chose to enlarge the scope for discretion in
applying the new budget rules.  When it comes to the vote, though, the calculation is
clear. For their own sake, as well as for Europe’s, Irish voters
should grit their teeth and approve the fiscal agreement.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 