-- Ireland May Be Allowed Delay $4 Billion Anglo Irish Payment
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-03-06T15:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/irish-may-be-allowed-delay-4-billion-anglo-irish-cash-payment.html
Ireland may be allowed to delay a
3.1 billion euro ($4.1 billion) cash payment to two nationalized
lenders this month as it works on a longer-term plan to cut the
cost of bailing out the nation’s  financial system , two people
with direct knowledge of the plans said.  Ireland is discussing with the so-called bailout troika of
institutions, the  International Monetary Fund , the  European
Central Bank  and European Commission, reducing the cost of
promissory notes -- or IOUs -- used to rescue the former  Anglo
Irish  Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building Society, now
merged and renamed Irish Bank Resolution Corp.  A longer-term accord is unlikely to be reached by the time
the annual 3.1 billion euro pay-down on the notes is due on
March 31, said the people, who declined to be identified as the
talks are private. Instead, Ireland may be allowed to issue
another promissory note or government bond to cover the
installment, the people said. In all, the state issued about 30
billion euros of notes to the lenders.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said in parliament in Dublin
today that while “intensive work” is ongoing on how the notes
could be restructured, he didn’t want to “heighten
expectations” that an accord would be achieved within two or
three weeks. He declined to put a timeline on a possible accord.  The Finance Ministry declined to comment on a possibility
of delaying the end-March payment in the meantime.  “The negotiations on the promissory notes are
progressing,” the Dublin-based ministry said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “This is a medium-term process and it is
too early to speculate on the outcome of these negotiations.”  Plan  Any new plan to replace the promissory notes would have to
be approved by all 27 EU states, Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said on Jan. 20.  A delay in March cash payment may facilitate the longer-
term effort to cut the cost of Ireland’s banking rescue, which
helped tip the nation into an international bailout in 2010.
Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark, yielded
6.9 percent today, down from 9.1 percent at the start of
December. The yield on the equivalent Greek security is 38
percent and on the Portuguese note it’s 14 percent.  The government nationalized Dublin-based  Anglo Irish (ANGL)  in
2009 and Irish Nationwide a year later as their loan losses
soared following the collapse of a domestic real-estate bubble.  To avoid injecting cash immediately into the lenders, the
previous Irish administration pledged to give the money over
more than a decade by issuing promissory notes. The two lenders
use the notes as collateral to access emergency funding from the
country’s central bank.  Broadly, IBRC uses the money it receives each year to help
pay off its borrowings at the central bank. The first payment
was made last March, with the next payment due before April.  “We don’t see that as a hard-and-fast deadline. It’s a
bigger operation than just the one repayment to be worked on,”
said Craig Beaumont, the IMF’s mission chief for Ireland, said
on a call with reporters on March 2. “I won’t speculate on
exactly how the end March payment is dealt with.”  By the end of June, Anglo Irish had borrowed 38.4 billion
euros from the Irish central bank, according to its interim
report, published in August.  Debt  Under current arrangements, the government is contracted to
pay an annual coupon of about 8 percent to Anglo Irish for the
notes, which the  finance ministry  estimates would cost about 48
billion euros by the time the notes are repaid. In addition, the
government must borrow or use tax revenues to make the annual
3.1 billion euro pay-down of the notes.  As the cost of saving the lender pushes up Ireland’s debt,
Irish Finance Minister Noonan has indicated he may seek to use
the euro-area bailout fund to restructure the cost of bailing
out IBRC. In January, Noonan asked the troika to prepare a paper
on how the Anglo Irish rescue cost could be eased.  “A lot of consensus” has emerged on tackling the
country’s rescue cost for IBRC, Beaumont said on the call with
reporters. He said risks to Ireland returning to the bond
markets in 2013, following a three-year hiatus, “are a little
on the high side” and he’d like to reduce them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  