-- ISRAEL DAYBOOK: Netanyahu at U.S. Congress; Ampal-American Bonds
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-03-06T06:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/israel-daybook-netanyahu-at-u-s-congress-ampal-american-bonds.html
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
takes his campaign for stopping Iran’s nuclear program to
Congress today after telling President Barack Obama his country
must be free to decide whether to take military action.  WHAT TO WATCH:
*  Greece , Cyprus and  Israel  plan to sign an energy cooperation
agreement later this month that may lead to their power grids
being connected, Greek Environment, Energy and Climate Change
Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said.  EQUITY MOVERS:
*  Ampal-American Israel (AMPL)  Corp, which owns a stake in a
company that exports natural gas from Egypt to Israel, said it
may delay the interest payment on its Series C bonds due March 7
if Series B bondholders decide to accelerate their debt
payments. Separately Ampal-American said a pipeline carrying
natural gas from Egypt to Israel was hit by an explosion and
disrupted supply.
*  Perion Network Ltd. (PERI)  (PERI IT), a digital media company, is
scheduled to release fourth-quarter results.
*  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  , the world’s
largest generic drugmaker, said data from four Phase 3 studies
show QNASL, its experimental allergy drug, has a positive safety
profile and it expects the U.S. Food & Drug Administration
feedback on the approval status of the drug “in the near
future.”
*  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT) ’s unit signed an agreement to
provide  Boeing Co. (BA)  with a Large Area Display system that will be
part of an advanced cockpit system provided in fighter aircraft,
Boeing said yesterday after markets closed.  MARKETS:
* The  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  declined 0.6 percent to 1,092.42 yesterday.
* The yield on the Mimshal Shiklit government bonds due January
2022 fell one basis point to 4.69 percent.
* The shekel declined 0.1 percent to 3.7937 a dollar at 8:20
a.m. in Tel Aviv.
* Corn for May delivery declined 0.4 percent to $6.5825 a
bushel.
* Crude oil for April delivery was little changed at $106.71 a
barrel.
* Gold for immediate delivery retreated 0.3 percent to $1,700.82
an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  