-- Mitsui Seeks Copper With Record $17 Billion: Commodities
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-03-06T13:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/mitsui-seeks-copper-acquisitions-with-record-17-billion-cash-commodities.html
Mitsui & Co. (8031) , holding a record $17
billion in cash, wants to buy mining stakes and expand
operations to triple copper output and more than double coal
production, easing its reliance on iron ore sales.  The biggest Japanese iron ore supplier is looking to buy 9
million metric tons of annual coal production from  Russia ,
 Australia ,  South America  and Africa, Fuminobu Kawashima, head of
resources of the Tokyo-based company, said in an interview.
Mitsui also wants to add 120,000 tons of copper a year from
South America, expecting Chinese demand will expand, he said.  “Iron ore makes a very strong contribution to our profit,
and I’d like to see it balanced,” Kawashima said. Iron ore, the
main raw material for making steel, provides more than half of
Mitsui’s net income, according to  Barclays Capital. (JNK)   The most resource-dependent of the Japanese trading
companies has the most cash since at least 1993, after ore
prices gained more than tenfold in the past decade. Separately,
Mitsui is expanding mining ventures with partners including
 Chile ’s Codelco,  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  as metals
prices hover near historical highs.  “Iron ore lends Mitsui competitive strength and supports
profits, but in the mid- to long-term it’s important to widen
the pipeline,” Barclays analyst Kazuhisa Mori said by telephone
in  Tokyo . “Copper is a promising commodity.”  The company may take advantage of the recent price drop in
copper, the metal used in wires and pipes. It has declined 11
percent to $8,447.25 a ton in  London  during the past 12 months
as concerns over  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowdown in Chinese
economy cut demand.  Partner Codelco  Copper will average $9,000 a ton this year, according to
Barclays, or $8,500 a ton, according to  JPMorgan & Chase Co. (JPM)  A
strengthening of the  U.S. economy  is helping boost demand from
consumers and investors, which indicates a third annual shortage
in 2012, according to Barclays.  Mitsui may partner with Codelco, the world’s biggest copper
producer, should the Chilean company expand outside the country,
said Kawashima, who’s also the senior executive managing
officer. The company reported $16.9 billion of cash and near-
cash items in the fiscal third quarter.  Mining deals are accelerating as companies struggle to
replace depleting deposits and  China ’s industrial growth stokes
demand for metals. More than $27 billion was spent globally on
copper deals in the past 12 months, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, compared with $169 billion on all mining deals.  Share Performance  Mitsui shares have lost about 10 percent in the past 12
months and, along with  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , which has dropped 17
percent, underperformed peers in the MSCI  World Trading (MXWO0TD) 
Companies & Distributors index. The benchmark gained 1.7 percent
in the period. The  stock  trades at about 6 times estimated
earnings for the current year, compared with 12 times for the
index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The value of mining companies has fallen 22 percent from a
year-high in April on concern economic volatility may continue,
curbing demand for commodities. That may create buying
opportunities for Mitsui outside iron ore,  SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc. (NKCS)  analyst Takashi Murakami said by telephone in Tokyo.  “There is a feeling that outside of iron ore Mitsui’s
resource are weak,” Murakami said.“It’s a good time to pick up
mining assets.”  Metals Investments  The Japanese trader is spending 260 billion yen ($3.21
billion) on resources in the current fiscal year ending March
31, representing about 37 percent of its total investments.
Mitsui relied on metals and energy for almost all September
quarter profit, Barclays said in a Feb. 21 report. It’s spent
more than $25 billion on investments in the past decade to the
end of 2011.  “If we don’t secure resources we’ll lose out to the
competition abroad,” Kawashima said.  The company has spent $18 billion on deals in the past
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its biggest
sole purchase was the $1.1 billion cash purchase of a minority
stake in Malasia’s Integrated Healthcare Holdings Ltd. in May.  Mitsui expects copper output of 63,000 tons this fiscal
year. That’s less than half the 140,000 tons Mitsubishi secured
in the previous fiscal year and less than  Marubeni Corp. (8002) ’s
125,000 ton target for this year. Mitsubishi expects its copper
output to jump to 250,000 tons in 2012, it said Feb. 1.  Globally, copper consumption will outpace supply by 376,000
tons this year and there will be another shortage in 2013,
Barclays said in a Feb. 29 report.  Copper Production  The gap in copper production between the Japanese trading
houses could widen even further after Mitsubishi agreed to buy a
24.5 percent stake in  Anglo American Plc. (AAL) ’s Sur unit in Chile in
November, a month after Mitsui said it would provide partner
Codelco with a loan to buy a 49 percent share in the same asset.
Mitsui’s loan allowed the Tokyo-based trader later to buy half
of Codelco’s Sur shares.  Codelco is challenging the Mitsubishi transaction in
Chilean courts, saying it thwarted its rights to buy Sur shares.
Mitsui owns stakes in a U.S. copper mine and three in Chile,
where it works also with  Pan Pacific Copper Co. (PPCCZ) ,  Japan ’s biggest
maker of the metal.  In coal, Mitsui is targeting a doubling in output to 18
million tons by about 2017, Kawashima said. That would help
Mitsui close the gap with Mitsubishi’s 29.1 million ton
production, the most of the trading houses, and  Itochu Corp. (8001) ’s
forecast 20 million tons. The alliance Mitsubishi has with BHP
is the world’s biggest coal supplier.  Thermal Coal  Thermal coal sales to Japan, the world’s second-biggest
buyer of the power-station fuel, are set to rebound this year,
according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Purchases may rise 3 percent to 104
million tons in 2012, exceeding last year and 2010, Daiwa
Capital Markets says.  All but two of Japan’s 54 nuclear plants remain idle almost
12 months after the March 11 disaster, boosting the need for
thermal generation.  The spot price for Australian coking coal exceeded $330 per
ton as a result of floods in the country, scaling back to $220
per ton currently, JPMorgan said in a Feb. 15 report. Coking
coal may bottom out in the April-to-June period before rising as
the cost of mining increases, Akira Kishimoto, an analyst with
JPMorgan in Tokyo, said in the report.  Finding coal projects at “prices that meet our
expectations” is proving tough, Kawashima said. Mitsui still
wants to persevere in securing more coal from Mongolia, though a
political “reset” there has stalled efforts, he said.  Mongolian Opportunity  Mongolia, which is due for parliamentary elections in June,
has delayed last year’s decision on which companies will develop
the west-central part of a 6-billion-ton Tavan Tolgoi coal
deposit. Mitsui bid to develop the West Tsankhi area with
China’s  Shenhua Group (SHGCLZ) , the world’s biggest coal miner, and is
still pursuing that interest, Kawashima said.  State-run Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi agreed to supply all of the
coal from the East Tsankhi area to Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.,
which in turn is due to sell 30 percent of the total to Mitsui,
Itochu, and Korea Resources Corp.  Mitsui will also continue to consider adding iron ore
production, Kawashima said. The trader set up a department last
year to search for projects also outside of Australia, where all
of its ore comes from, he said.  “We’re watching and performing feasibility studies on
projects in Russia and Africa,” he said. “Everywhere has its
difficulties but if they find a good asset, we’ll go there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  