-- Mitt Missed His Chance to Rail Against Rush: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-03-06T17:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/mitt-missed-a-chance-to-rail-against-rush-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Blame  Rush Limbaugh  if you want --
and I will, later, at the risk of being “Fluked” -- for the
uproar over contraception. But the real culprit is the
leadership of the  Republican Party , which snatched defeat (the
 Blunt amendment , which would have let  any boss decide  what
insurance coverage suits his conscience) from the jaws of
victory (the president’s compromise with Catholic bishops over
such coverage).  You have to wonder if the party that has been obsessed with
lady parts for the better part of a month can bring enough women
and independents home in November to beat President  Barack Obama . Almost 70 percent of those surveyed in the most recent
 NBC/Wall Street Journal poll  -- taken Feb. 29 to March 5, when
there were no debates except the one over contraception --
called themselves  “unenthusiastic,” “discouraged” and
“disappointed” by the Republicans. Republican pollster Bill McInturff calls the last month “corrosive.”  Mitt Romney  has a worse overall favorable to unfavorable
score at this stage -- 28 percent to 39 percent -- than any
presidential nominee in recent history (the corresponding
figures among independents -- 22 percent to 38 percent -- are
even worse). Romney, who had muffed his response on the Blunt
amendment -- he was against it before he quickly was for it --
had the perfect opportunity to reverse the downward movement by
repudiating a piece of vitriol from Limbaugh.  Salacious Speculation  To review: Limbaugh had called Georgetown University law
student Sandra Fluke, who testified before Congress last month
about the need for health insurance to cover contraception, a
“slut” for having so much sex “it’s amazing she can even walk.”
He then salaciously speculated about watching videos of the sex
she would be enjoying while using contraception.  What a gimme. Limbaugh himself  apologized  -- in a half-
hearted way -- when advertisers began to flee. Even  Rick
Santorum , who considers contraception the devil’s work,
distanced himself from Limbaugh, calling him “absurd,” although
softening it by labeling him as a mere “entertainer.” Romney,
whose spine has been rendered limp as cooked spaghetti as he
begs for approval from the base, could muster only a weak
objection to Limbaugh, whimpering that it was “not the language
I would have used.”  So there’s a synonym for slut or voyeurism that would have
made the underlying sentiment suitable?  Romney’s feeble reaction put him at odds with the president
of the  United States  (who  phoned Fluke  to say her parents would
be proud of her); the president of Georgetown (who called the
reaction to a model student “misogynistic, vitriolic, and a
misrepresentation” of her position); and   St. Augustine  (who, as
quoted by Georgetown’s president, favors civil discourse that
seeks the truth “lovingly and tranquilly” without the “bold
presumption that it is already discovered and possessed”).  This missed opportunity shows that not only has Romney’s
spine gone wavy, but his judgment is skewed. Any politician
worth his salt could see that this fight was no longer a fair
one. What was once a battle between the Catholic bishops (with
their allies in Congress) and Democrats was now between a
powerful Republican Party player and someone’s daughter. This
was asymmetric warfare.  Just as Don Imus couldn’t see that he had crossed a line
when he stole a moment of triumph from the Rutgers women’s
basketball team in 2007 by calling them “nappy-headed hos,”
Limbaugh, with his huge show and massive celebrity, thought he
could bully anyone personally and with impunity -- and his
devoted dittoheads would applaud him for it. Any point he had to
make was lost in his sputtering hate. Because he didn’t know
Fluke, it felt like she was standing in for all women.  A Weak Apology  On his Monday show, Limbaugh elaborated on his weak
Saturday apology by blaming liberals for his ill-chosen
analogies. He regretted that he had “descended to their level,”
while his defenders dredged up liberal criticism of another
woman, Sarah Palin, during the 2008 campaign. But there’s one
big difference: Palin was a grown-up candidate who had thrown
herself into presidential politics. She had a national platform
to answer her critics (and now has a well-paid contract with  Fox
News  to do so).  You can bet that Limbaugh is one employer who will have
“moral objections” to covering one particular prescription drug
for his female employees. You want Limbaugh deciding that Cialis
is covered (after all, it’s a prescription drug) and  Ortho
Micronor  isn’t (even though it is also a prescription drug)? If
this mania over covering contraception is drawn as a fight
between your boss’s conscience and the mandate in the Affordable
Care Act, then that’s bad news for the Republican nominee. In
fact, I’ll bet Romney $10,000 that women go with the president.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Margaret Carlson  at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  