-- Jumio Valuation Said to Be $100 Million After Andreessen Funding
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-03-06T19:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/jumio-valuation-said-to-be-100-million-after-andreessen-funding.html
Jumio Inc., which lets consumers
make payments online by waving a credit card in front of a
webcam, has a valuation of more than $100 million after its
latest funding round, two people familiar with the matter said.  The people asked not to be named because the valuation
numbers aren’t public. The  Mountain View , California-based
startup said today that venture capital firm Andreessen
Horowitz, co-founded by Internet pioneer  Marc Andreessen , led a
$25.5 million financing round.  Jumio is trying to make online payments safer and easier in
part by tackling fraud, a challenge that has plagued companies
from the earliest days of the Web, Jumio founder and Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Mattes said in an interview. He said he
aims to strike partnerships with technology companies, retailers
and banks -- including  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and Microsoft
Corp.’s Skype -- to streamline payments.  “Skype, Airbnb, Facebook, Groupon Inc. -- all of them have
the same problem,” Mattes said. “They’re accepting credit
cards, and they have to deal with fraud.”  Jumio uses image-recognition technology to help people make
purchases securely. One of its products, Netswipe, reads a
credit card waved in front of a webcam. The other, Netverify,
validates a user’s identity via a driver’s license or passport.
The company makes money by charging the companies that use
Netswipe as much as 2.75 percent of each transaction, and those
that use Netverify $1 per verification.  Jumio’s Board  With the investment, Andreessen Horowitz partner Scott Weiss will join Jumio’s board, which already includes Facebook
co-founder Eduardo Saverin, an early investor. This round of
funding will bring the total raised to $32 million, and let
Jumio add 50 to 100 people to its staff of 45, Mattes said.
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, is an investor in
Andreessen Horowitz.  Jumio’s challenge will be to stay relevant as banks and
credit-card companies push consumers to go cardless and use
handsets to make purchases instead. Payment networks, such as
Visa Inc. and MasterCard Inc., advocate near-field communication
technology, which lets people make payments by tapping a mobile
phone against a cash-register system. One in five smartphones
will be NFC-enabled by 2014, researcher Juniper estimates.  Mattes, 39, founded Skype competitor Jajah before selling
it to  Telefonica SA (TEF)  for more than $200 million in 2009. Jumio
will seek to strike partnerships with card-issuing banks as a
way of gaining access to their millions of consumers, he said.  Google Inc. and PayPal both have products that let users
keep a virtual wallet with information from several credit and
debit cards, and use it to check out at online stores. PayPal,
owned by EBay Inc. and formerly headed by another Andreessen
partner -- Jeff Jordan -- could be an ally, Mattes said.  “We see ourselves more like industry neighbors,” he said.
“PayPal could actually use our technology for the sign-up
process, the credit card uploading process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  