-- KKR Teams Up With Chesapeake to Invest $250 Million
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-03-06T23:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/kkr-teams-up-with-chesapeake-to-invest-250-million.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK) , the second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer, formed a
$250 million partnership to buy mineral rights and royalties
from owners of oil and gas properties.  KKR, the private equity firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , will commit an initial $225 million and Chesapeake will
provide $25 million toward the partnership, which will invest in
mineral and royalty interests in oil and gas basins, the firms
said in a statement today. Owners of oil and gas royalties
typically receive a share of production revenue without
incurring any of the production cost. In the U.S., owners of
mineral rights to a specific piece of property usually negotiate
for royalty payments.  Chesapeake expects to buy royalty interests from sellers
who “don’t want to wait to see what’s under the ground,” as
well as from those who want cash up front for royalties on
producing wells, Michael Kehs, a spokesman for Oklahoma City-
based Chesapeake, said in a telephone interview. The agreement
with KKR is Chesapeake’s first partnership that will acquire
royalties, rather than an interest in fields, he said.  “Private equity has been getting more and more into oil
and gas, and this is another way in,” said  Scott Hanold , a
Minneapolis-based analyst for  RBC Capital Markets  who rates
Chesapeake “sector-perform” and doesn’t own the shares.
“Chesapeake is a good choice for this because they are deal
guys and they didn’t have the cash to do something this size on
their own.”  Snapping up Assets  Chesapeake had a net debt load of $10.28 billion as of Dec.
31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company will be
responsible for finding, acquiring and managing the investments,
according to the statement. Chesapeake is the second-largest
U.S. gas producer, behind  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Private equity firms such as KKR and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
are snapping up energy assets as the price of oil climbs and the
world’s largest energy companies unload mature oil and gas
fields to finance new exploration. The value of private equity
deals in the energy industry almost doubled last year to $32.2
billion from $16.5 billion in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  KKR last year led a group to buy Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
Samson Investment Co. for $7.2 billion to capitalize on
increased production of shale-based oil and gas. Last month, a
group led by  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  agreed to acquire El
Paso Corp.’s oil and gas exploration business for $7.15 billion.
The deals topped the list of buyouts in the energy production
industry and were the biggest private equity deals since 2007.  ‘Attractive Opportunities’  “Driven predominantly by the recent advancements in
unconventional oil and gas technology, we continue to see
attractive opportunities to invest behind the domestic
exploration and production of oil and gas,” Robert Antablin, a
director at New York-based KKR who leads the firm’s royalties
investment strategy, said in the statement.  In November, KKR hired Claire Scobee Farley and David Rockecharlie,  energy-industry  bankers from Jefferies & Co., as
managing directors focusing on its oil and gas investments.
Farley and Rockecharlie founded Houston-based RPM Energy LLC,
which helps manage those investments.  Chesapeake fell 2.8 percent to $23.56 and KKR dropped 1.8
percent to $13.61 at the close of trading in New York.
Chesapeake’s shares have gained 5.7 percent this year, and KKR’s
have risen 6.1 percent during that time.  Attracting Capital  Private equity firms have been trumpeting their energy
track records in an effort to attract capital from clients who
are clamoring for more opportunities to invest in the industry.
Blackstone is seeking to raise as much as $3 billion for its
first energy-focused fund. If successful, New York-based
Blackstone would surpass both Apollo’s and KKR’s efforts to
attract capital to dedicated energy pools.  KKR made a fourfold return on its first shale-gas
investment, in Warrendale, Pennsylvania-based East Resources
Inc., when the company was sold to Royal Dutch Shell Plc in May
2010. KKR did one of its first oil- and gas-production deals in
1985, buying a 50 percent stake in Allied Corp.’s Union Texas
Petroleum unit for about $250 million.  “Chesapeake has been the world’s leading discoverer and
developer of oil and gas shale plays, which are revolutionizing
energy exploration,” Marc Lipschultz, head of global energy and
infrastructure at KKR, said in the statement. “We hope that
today’s partnership is just the beginning.”  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, the New York-based law
firm, is advising KKR on the joint venture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  