-- Netanyahu Seeks Help on Iran From Congress After Obama Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-06T16:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/netanyahu-takes-iran-nuclear-campaign-to-u-s-congress-after-obama-meeting.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  took his campaign for stopping Iran’s nuclear program
to Congress today after telling President  Barack Obama  his
country must be free to decide whether to take military action.  Netanyahu, who met with Obama at the White House yesterday
morning, ended the day with a speech to American Jewish leaders
in which he said he won’t let Israel live in the “shadow of
annihilation.”  While Netanyahu praised Obama for leading a campaign to
toughen economic sanctions on Iran, he said such actions haven’t
led Iran to curtail its nuclear program and Israel must be able
to defend itself. Iran has said its nuclear development is for
peaceful purposes, and the prospect of confrontation in a region
with more than half the world’s oil reserves has helped send
crude prices soaring.  “None of us can afford to wait much longer,” Netanyahu
said before about 14,000 members of the American  Israel  Public
Affairs Committee at the Washington Convention Center.  Netanyahu is scheduled to meet with U.S. House Speaker John Boehner and other Congressional leaders, wrapping up a five-day
trip to the U.S. and  Canada . At a photo opportunity with Senate
leaders in advance of a luncheon at the Capitol today, Netanyahu
was asked about a report that Israel had decided to strike Iran,
and if he would comment about whether it’s true.  “My decision is not to talk about it,” he said.  The prime minister said in his White House meeting with
Obama yesterday that Israel must remain “the master of its
fate” in deciding whether a military strike is necessary to
prevent  Iran  from building a nuclear weapon.  Diplomatic Window  In public statements at the start of the meeting, Obama
told Netanyahu “there is still a window” for a diplomatic
solution to the confrontation with Iran. He said the U.S. has a
“rock solid” commitment to Israel’s security and that “all
options” are available to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran.  While thanking Obama for delivering a “strong speech” two
days ago to Aipac, Netanyahu made clear that Israel retains the
option of acting unilaterally. The Israeli leader gave Obama a
 Megillah , the scroll Jews read on the holiday of Purim that
tells the story of how they prevailed over a plot to kill them
in ancient Persia, which is present-day Iran.  Their meeting came as the U.S. and Israel consider their
next steps to require Iran to give up ambitions to build a
nuclear bomb. The European Union offered to restart negotiations
with Iran. In a statement on behalf of China,  France ,  Germany ,
 Russia , the U.K. and the U.S., EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  urged Saeed Jalili, Iran’s nuclear envoy, to meet her to
seek a way for Iran to clarify questions about its nuclear
program. The letter was a response to an Iranian overture last
month to negotiate.  Setting Lines  Neither Obama nor Netanyahu set out a clear threshold that
would trigger military action, and Netanyahu didn’t publicly
endorse Obama’s call for patience.  “Israel has succeeded in raising Iran to the center of our
discussions,” Netanyahu told Israeli reporters in Hebrew
following the meeting.  In his remarks, Obama reiterated the pledge of support for
Israel’s security that he made in his March 4 speech to the
annual  Washington  policy conference of Aipac, the biggest pro-
Israel organization in the U.S.  Seeking Tacit Support  “We don’t know what they’re saying in private, but at
least from what’s evident publicly, they don’t have agreed-upon
red lines,” said  Mark Heller , senior research fellow at  Tel
Aviv  University’s Institute for National Security Studies.  “Netanyahu wants to be able to act with at least tacit
American support,” Heller said in a phone interview from Tel
Aviv. “He’s trying to maximize prior coordination. There’s a
skeptical Israeli view that we do trust you if we’re certain
that you support us, but we’re not certain of that yet.”  Obama, White House National Security Adviser Tom Donilon,
Netanyahu and his security adviser Yaakov Amidror met for about
90 minutes, with Obama and Netanyahu meeting alone for an
additional half hour ahead of their lunch, said White House
National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor. In addition to
Iran, the leaders discussed  Syria  and the Palestinian peace
process, Vietor said.  Speaking to Aipac, Netanyahu warned against those who
accept Iran’s assertion that its nuclear program is only for
peaceful purposes.  ‘Nuclear Duck’  “If it looks like a duck, if it walks like a duck, if it
quacks like a duck, then what is it? That’s right, it’s a
duck,” Netanyahu said. “But this time it’s a nuclear duck and
it’s time the world starts calling the duck a duck.”  Obama has said he doesn’t support a policy of containment
and takes “no options off the table” including a “military
effort” to stop Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.  Obama told Aipac that while Israel has the right to make
its own decisions, sanctions need more time to work and “loose
talk of war” is driving up the price of Iranian oil and
jeopardizing U.S. and Israeli security.  David Makovsky , a fellow at the Washington Institute for
Near East Policy, a research center in Washington, said Obama’s
public comments leading to yesterday’s meeting may have moved
the U.S. and Israel somewhat closer by clarifying that Obama
opposes containment, considers the Iran issue one of U.S. as
well as Israeli national security and recognizes Israel’s right
to make its military decisions.  Oil Prices  Since hitting a low for the last 12 months on Oct. 4, 2011,
crude oil has risen 39 percent, in part because of concerns
about tensions in the Persian Gulf and higher demand spurred by
economic growth in countries such as  China  and a strengthening
recovery in the U.S. Crude for April delivery declined $1.86, or
1.7 percent, to $104.86 a barrel at 9:26 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  The U.S. and the European Union tightened economic
sanctions following a Nov. 8, 2011, report by United Nations
inspectors that Iran’s nuclear research program may include
pursuing the capability to build a nuclear weapon. Because of
the sanctions, Obama said, Iran is isolated and its economy
ground to almost a halt last year.  The U.S. and Israel see strategic value in a public posture
that minimizes their differences even as Israel remains more
concerned about running out of time to stop Iran from becoming
nuclear-weapons capable, said Colin Kahl, a former deputy
assistant secretary of defense for the  Middle East  in the Obama
administration.  ‘United Front’  “It’s in the interests of both parties to show somewhat of
a united front if part of the goal is to compel Iran to change
its position,” said Kahl, who has said it is premature for
military action against Iran.  That unity signals to Iran that it “needs to take the
prospect of pressure and maybe even a military strike down the
road seriously,” said Kahl, now a professor at Georgetown
University in Washington and senior fellow for the Center for a
New American Security, a policy group in Washington.  Obama and Netanyahu have been at odds since the start of
Obama’s presidency. Obama, in an interview with the Atlantic
magazine published last week, said he and Netanyahu have a
“very functional” relationship.  Obama’s dealings with Israel and the threat posed by Iran
has emerged in the U.S. presidential campaign. Republican
presidential candidates  Mitt Romney ,  Rick Santorum  and  Newt Gingrich  delivered messages to the Aipac conference today.  Speaking by satellite to the group, Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor, said he would “bring the current policy
of procrastination to an end.”  “Hope is not a foreign policy,” Romney said. “The only
thing respected by thugs and tyrants is our resolve.”  Obama said all parties should consider the “weightiness of
these issues” and warned that the approach in dealing with Iran
must be deliberate.  ‘Loose Talk’  “There is too much loose talk of war,” Obama said. “Now
is not the time for bluster.”  Obama’s position at the private meeting was consistent with
his pledge to protect Israel’s security in his speech to Aipac.  “Nothing that he said inside contradicted what he said
outside,” Netanyahu said.  Asked what meaning Obama should draw from the story of the
ancient Jewish-Persian conflict recounted in Megillah, which
Netanyahu gave him two days before the holiday begins, the
Israeli leader smiled and declined to comment further.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Washington at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  