-- Netanyahu Sees Red Sea-Negev Rail Spurring China Trade: Freight
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-03-06T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/netanyahu-sees-red-sea-negev-rail-spurring-china-trade-freight.html
Israel  is planning a train link
between its Red Sea and Mediterranean ports intended to serve as
an overland alternative to the Suez Canal and to spur increased
trade from China,  India  and other Asian countries.  The cabinet approved on Feb. 5 a 350-kilometer (218-mile)
line to link the city of Eilat, Israel’s sole Asian-waters port,
to the existing rail system, connecting to the Ashdod port. The
project may start as early as this year.  To Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , the link is a means
to increase trade with the expanding economies of  Asia , reducing
dependence on Israel’s traditional export markets in  Europe  and
the U.S. and transforming Israel into a Middle East trading hub.
The premier says having an overland cargo route to the
Mediterranean will boost the country’s value as a strategic
partner to China and India and would be “useful” in case
“problems” arose with the Suez Canal.  “How can we get the great Asian economies interested?”
Netanyahu asked during an interview with Bloomberg News in  Tel
Aviv  on Feb. 20. “We can build a train line from the  Red Sea  to
Ashdod to link Asia and Europe.” The project “will help open
up markets.”  Israeli officials in recent discussions with Chinese and
Indian counterparts have raised the possibility of companies
from there taking part in building and operating the estimated
8.6 billion shekel ($2.3 billion) project, expected by the
government to take five years once construction gets under way.  Chemical Exports  The government estimates the rail link will multiply cargo
traffic at the Eilat port, which primarily handles chemical
exports to, and merchandise imports from, Asian markets.
According to a Ministry of Transport study, chemical exports
from Eilat that totaled 2.4 million tons in 2008 may rise to as
much as 5.4 million tons in 2020. Shipping containers could
increase from 2,000 20-foot containers, or TEU, to 210,000 TEU.  The government is selling the port to private owners and
expects to complete the process this year. Five companies --
 Maman Cargo Terminals and Handling Ltd. ,  Gadot Chemicals Tankers
and Terminals Ltd. (GDTN) , Papo Maritime Ltd., Mifalei Tovala Ltd. and
 Gold Bond Group Ltd. (GOLD)  -- have reached an advanced stage in the
sale, the  Finance Ministry  announced on Feb. 21. In two months,
after the government works out provisions to safeguard the
interests of port workers, the contenders can submit bids.  Mifalei Tovala is a subsidiary of publicly traded  Israel
Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) , which extracts minerals from the  Dead Sea  to
make potash and fertilizers. Acquiring the port may help it
contain labor actions and other contingencies that have
sometimes delayed its exports to Asia, said  Joseph Wolf , an
equity analyst at  Barclays Capital  in Tel Aviv.  Sustaining Edge  “One of Israel Chemicals’ biggest advantages over their
rivals is their time-to-market shipping to India and  China ,”
Wolf said in a phone interview. “Controlling transportation and
making sure that edge is sustained is an important part of their
strategy.”  Israel Chemicals shares are down 0.8 percent this year in
Tel Aviv;  Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc. , the world’s
largest fertilizer producer by market value, is up 5.8 percent
in New York trading over the same period.  Linking Eilat by rail to Ashdod, along a route used in
ancient times by caravans bringing spices and incense from
Arabia and India to Europe, has been contemplated for decades.
It was first promoted by Netanyahu while he was finance minister
in 2003. He revived the idea after becoming prime minister in
2009 as part of a nationwide rail development  program .  Southern Negev  For Israel, the link isn’t just an economic investment.
Netanyahu has stressed its importance in spurring development of
the country’s southern Negev desert and possibly strengthening
relations with Jordan. Its Aqaba port sits adjacent to Eilat and
could also be connected to a Mediterranean rail link.  “There is no reason it can’t be an Eilat-Aqaba-Ashdod
line,” Netanyahu told parliament last March. “This will
advance prosperity, stability and peace in the region.”  The total amount of cargo loaded and unloaded at Eilat in
the first three quarters of 2011 was 1.6 million tons. At Ashdod
it was 14.4 million tons, according to Israel’s  Central Bureau
of Statistics .  Those amounts pale next to the  Suez Canal , used to carry
about 8 percent of global annual seaborne trade. In January
alone, 81.5 million net tons passed through the Egypt-controlled
waterway.  The canal has remained open during the past year of
political upheaval, which forced the resignation of Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak. It was closed for four months in 1956-
1957 as Egypt and Israel fought the Sinai War. It shut again for
eight years after the 1967 War as Egyptian and Israeli forces
occasionally fired at each other from positions on either bank.  ‘Second Option’  “It’s always important in terms of risk management to have
a second option,” said  Philip Damas , director of liner shipping
at Drewry Shipping Consultant Ltd. in  London . “In terms of
cost, between having the cargo delivered by rail to a
Mediterranean port of Israel, as compared to having it go all
the way by ship, I’m a little skeptical of it being
competitive.”  The  Ministry of Transportation  has issued a non-binding
“Request for Information” packet outlining the project. Last
year more than 80 interested bodies, including  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
 Alstom SA (ALO) ,  Samsung Engineering Co Ltd. (028050)  and Veolia Transportation
Inc., asked for it, the ministry said.  “It is important for China and India to have another route
of connection for their exports to Europe in addition to the
Suez Canal,” Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz told
Bloomberg News during a visit to Beijing on Feb. 29.  ‘Extra Insurance’  The Eilat-Ashdod port link will be “extra insurance” for
Asian exporters in uncertain times and during periods of
crowding in the Suez Canal, Steinitz said, adding that initial
discussions have started with Chinese officials on possible
participation in the project. The  China Civil Engineering
Construction Corp. (BCALAZ)  is already involved in building another rail
line in Israel to connect the cities of Haifa and Karmiel.  India is interested in participating in the building of the
link, said an official at the Ministry of External Affairs who
declined to allow his name to be used as is standard practice in
his ministry. Discussions have taken place, he said.  “Once this project is formed and the road map is clear,
Indian companies will evaluate their participation, but I do see
good Indian interest in this,” Urban Development Minister Kamal Nath told The Hindu Daily on Feb. 14, after discussing it with
Trade Minister Israel Katz during a visit to Israel.  In addition to boosting Israel’s economic and strategic
standing, the link will be “useful in case there are queues or
lines or other problems with the sea route of the Suez Canal,”
Netanyahu said in a  Jerusalem  speech on Feb. 19. “We will
connect Eilat to Ashdod and Eilat to Tel Aviv and this changes
Israel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  