-- Norway’s Krone to Weaken Versus Yen on Interest-Rate Decreases, RBS Says
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-06T16:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/norway-s-krone-to-weaken-versus-yen-on-interest-rate-decreases-rbs-says.html
The Norwegian krone will weaken
against the yen with  Norway ’s central bank prepared to lower
benchmark interest rates to slow the currency’s rise, according
to the Royal Bank of  Scotland .  Norway’s currency has been the strongest performer in
Bloomberg’s Correlation Weighted Currency Indexes over the past
month, gaining 3.1 percent against nine developed-nation
counterparts.  Japan ’s currency has been the biggest loser,
falling 5.1 percent.  “While we have been positive on the Norwegian economy and
the krone for some time, its gains look increasingly
stretched,” RBS analysts led by  Paul Robson , currency
strategist in  London , wrote in a client note. “Recent yen
weakness against European currencies looks overdone and is not
justified by moves in interest rates.”  Japan’s currency gained 2.4 percent against the krone to
14.17 yen at 11:12 a.m. in  New York . The yen has depreciated
against Norway’s currency for four consecutive weeks.  Robson recommended that investors take a short position
against the krone at 14.46 yen, targeting a move down to 13.85
and a stop order at a two-day close above 14.8 yen in case the
krone gains. A short position is a bet that an asset will
decline in value.  Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said Feb. 27 in a
speech in Moss, Norway, that said foreign-exchange rates are an
important input when setting interest rates since they influence
the pace of inflation and employment. The central bank will not
“intervene systematically” in currency markets, he said, as
its main tool is the  interest rate .  ‘Interest-Rate Cuts’  “Norges Bank has a strong tendency to be very sensitive to
how strong their  exchange rate  is,” Melinda Burgess, a currency
strategist at the firm in London, said in a telephone interview.
“We see there might be more interest-rate cuts than are
currently priced in by the market.”  The central bank in December lowered its main lending rate
by half a percentage point, its biggest cut since May 2009, to
its current level of 1.75 percent. RBS forecasts a decrease of
25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, in the central bank’s
interest rate each quarter for the rest of the year, according
to Burgess. The 75 basis point reduction would bring the
benchmark rate down to one percent by year’s end.  The consensus view in a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists,
not including RBS, is for the rate to remain at 1.75 percent at
year’s end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  