-- Novartis’s Gilenya Loses Market Share After Safety Review
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-06T23:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/novartis-multiple-sclerosi-pill-loses-market-share-as-doctors-become-wary.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya multiple
sclerosis pill lost market share for the first time in January,
following the deaths of some patients soon after taking the
first pill available for the disease in the U.S.  Gilenya’s share of the U.S. market for so-called
immunomodulatory drugs against MS fell to 6.1 percent from 6.2
percent in December, according to data from  Wolters Kluwer NV (WKL) , a
market research company. The decline was the first after 15
months of growth, at a median of 15 percent a month, since the
treatment received U.S. regulatory approval in September 2010.  The  Food and Drug Administration  and the European Medicines
Agency are investigating 11 deaths among Gilenya patients. In
the past month, analysts have cut their  forecasts  for peak sales
of Gilenya by 10 percent to $2.1 billion in 2016, according to
the average of six estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The deaths have “made me a little more cautious,” said
Aaron Miller, chief medical officer of the U.S. National
Multiple Sclerosis Society, and a medical director at Mount
Sinai Hospital in  New York . “I am not somebody who has
recommended Gilenya as a first-line drug prior to these reports,
and I’m still not recommending it as a first-line drug until we
get more data.”  Miller has about 800 patients under his care and has put
about 30 on Gilenya since it was approved, he said. He prefers
injectable drugs, which include products such as  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Copaxone and Biogen Idec Inc.’s
Tysabri as first-line treatments.  New Prescriptions  There have been a record number of new prescriptions in the
U.S. in the past few weeks, Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis
said in an e-mailed statement. The rate of growth may slow and
then accelerate again, the company said.  “Some uncertainty is to be expected in the marketplace as
some physicians and patients wait for final review and potential
label changes,” Novartis said. “Overall, we see Gilenya
continuing to grow in volume. Gilenya potential is seen as
unchanged.”  The trend in analysts’ sales estimates for Gilenya is
“exactly a reflection of the safety concerns,” Martin Voegtli,
an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets SA in Zurich, said in an e-
mail. On Feb. 24, Voegtli cut his forecasts by 12 percent to
$1.96 billion in 2016 and by 11 percent to $2.1 billion in 2017.  “We still expect Gilenya to remain on the market and
return to growth once the reviews have been completed,” he
said.  11 Deaths  Novartis said Dec. 12 that a U.S. patient had died within
24 hours of starting treatment with Gilenya, triggering reviews
by the FDA and EMA, which reported a further 10 deaths among
patients taking the medicine. Six of those deaths were
unexplained, three patients died of heart attacks and one due to
disruption of heart rhythm, the EMA said Jan. 20.  “A role for Gilenya can neither be confirmed nor excluded
at this time,” Novartis said of the U.S. death.  The EMA’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use
has said it expects to complete its review by its March meeting,
which is scheduled for next week.  Worldwide sales of MS immunomodulatory medicines exceeded
$11 billion in 2010. The U.S. market was about $5.2 billion,
according to Wolters Kluwer data, though that doesn’t account
for rebates and discounts and may not include all U.S. sales.
Weekly prescriptions for Gilenya have declined 1.5 percent since
reaching a peak in December, according to the four-week average
of Wolters Kluwer data analyzed by Bloomberg Industries.  Cardiac Issues  Timothy Vollmer, professor and director of clinical
research in neurology at the  University of Colorado  in Denver,
said he has stopped using Gilenya in patients who had been
taking older treatments.  “If they have any history of any kind of cardiac disease,
we won’t consider the drug,” Vollmer said in a telephone
interview. “For older patients, we’re a little bit reluctant
because of the cardiac issues.”  About 10 percent of patients have been taken off Gilenya
after a careful review of safety information, Vollmer said. His
clinic has about 2,000 patients, including 800 on Tysabri and
150 on Gilenya. Novartis has told Vollmer the clinic is one of
the biggest Gilenya prescribers in the U.S., he said. Vollmer
said he hasn’t seen any of his patients experience Gilenya-
related heart issues.  ‘Let Down’  “We actually felt substantially let down by the company,
because they knew about those things and they weren’t telling us
about it,” Vollmer said in a telephone interview. “For us to
use it the way we were using it we needed to feel that they were
going to be quite forthcoming with all the safety information.”  MS causes the immune system to attack the insulating tissue
around nerve fibers. This stops nerve cells from sending
signals, sapping patients’ energy, blurring their vision and
slowly robbing them of mobility, balance and coordination.  Treatments are designed to rein in the immune system, which
can lead to side effects. Gilenya, the first MS pill to reach
the market, blocks white blood cells called lymphocytes from
circulating in the body, preventing them from reaching and doing
damage to the brain, spinal cord and optical nerves.  It isn’t clear whether the drug contributed to the deaths
that regulators are reviewing, and the rate of fatalities is in
line with the expected rate based on the 30,000 patients who
have been treated so far, Novartis said in January.  Tysabri’s Safety  Tysabri (TYSBUS) , sold by Biogen and Elan Corp., also faced safety
questions after being approved by the FDA in 2004. The
injectable therapy was suspended in 2005 after some patients
developed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, or PML, a
viral infection in the brain that usually leads to death or
severe disability.  Tysabri returned to the market in 2006 with a risk-
management program for patients who didn’t benefit from rival
medicines. The FDA in January approved a revised label for
Tysabri that warns that patients who have antibodies against the
so-called JC virus are more susceptible to developing PML. The
European Commission approved the same change in June. Biogen
also developed a test for the antibodies.  ‘Unifying Factor’  Gilenya’s potential link to heart problems came as a
surprise, said  J. William Lindsey , an associate professor of
neurology at the University of Texas Medical School at Houston
who has put about 20 of his 500 patients on Gilenya so far.  Information on the 11 deaths provided by Novartis didn’t
give any clues as to a “unifying factor” that would link the
cases, Lindsey said in a telephone interview.  “If they can look at those and say, ‘All these people had
this in common, and we can prevent this if we don’t give it to
these people,’ that would be very helpful,” he said. “Right
now you sort of cross your fingers and hope it doesn’t happen to
that particular patient.”  Lindsey said he hasn’t changed his approach to prescribing
the drug, and started two patients on it the week before he
spoke to Bloomberg News.  “I discussed the cardiac things with them, and let them
know, and both of them felt that MS was causing them enough
problems that a 1 in 3,000 risk was something they were willing
to accept,” he said.  The drug may soon face competition from  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ,
the world’s biggest maker of treatments for MS. The Weston,
Massachusetts-based drugmaker applied last month for U.S.
marketing approval for BG-12, an experimental pill against the
disease that reduced the annual rate of relapse by as much as 51
percent compared with placebo. Teva’s Copaxone reduced the rate
by 29 percent.  “BG-12 is a real threat,” said Tim Race, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in  London  who rates Novartis a “buy,” in an
interview. “From the data we’ve seen, efficacy is comparable to
Gilenya and the safety seems slightly better, which suggests
that it’s going to be the market leader.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  