-- Nuclear Safety Plan May Cost $100 Million, Industry Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-03-06T17:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/nuclear-safety-plan-may-cost-100-million-industry-says-1-.html
The U.S. nuclear-power industry will
spend about $100 million to install emergency equipment,
including portable generators and pumps, at  power plants , an
industry official said.  The industry’s strategy to deal with power failures,
similar to those that crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant a year ago, may cost an average of $1
million or more for the 104 U.S. operating reactors, Charles Pardee, chairman of the Washington-based industry group
committee studying the response to the disaster, said.  The proposal by reactor owners provided the “greatest
safety benefit in the shortest amount of time,” Tony Pietrangelo, senior vice president for the  Nuclear Energy
Institute , said today at a press conference in Washington. The
cost would be “in the ballpark” of $100 million, he said.  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission this week may issue its
first orders to improve reactor safety in response to the
meltdown of three reactors in  Japan , triggered by an earthquake
and tsunami on March 11, 2011. One of the orders will require
reactor owners including  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and  Southern Co. (SO)  to have a
strategy in place for handling power failures.  A draft of the NRC’s order mirrors the proposal,
Pietrangelo said. Reactor owners would place commercial-grade
equipment at plants and rely on several “regional centers” to
provide back-up assistance in an emergency, according to Pardee,
also chief operating officer for Exelon subsidiary Exelon
Generation Co. A cost-sharing agreement among owners would cover
costs, he said.  The industry is “working in concert” with the NRC, though
it is “not waiting” on safety rules from regulators to take
action, Pardee said.  Reactor-owners have obtained or ordered more than 300
pieces of equipment, according to a statement released today.  Though the NRC may impose additional safety requirements at
plants, the investment in emergency equipment is a “financial
risk worth taking,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  