-- Nuclear Industry Plan Skirts NRC Fukushima Rules, Group Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-03-06T20:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/nuclear-industry-seeks-to-skirt-nrc-fukushima-rules-group-says.html
Nuclear-power companies are
“jumping the gun” on enhancing reactor safety to pre-empt
rules set by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission in response
to a disaster in Japan, the Union of Concerned Scientists said.  The industry’s plan to place commercial-grade emergency
equipment, including portable pumps and generators, at  power
plants  is an attempt to discourage the NRC from proposing more
expensive requirements, according to a report today from the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based environmental group.  “The industry is trying to ‘wag the dog,’” the group
said.  The NRC plans to issue this week the first orders to
enhance safety at U.S. reactors after a March 2011 earthquake
and tsunami triggered explosions, meltdowns and radiation leaks
at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The
 Nuclear Energy Institute , a Washington-based organization of
plant owners, is generally aligned with the NRC’s regulatory
priorities, officials from the group have said.  The NRC is proposing to require reactor owners including
 Exelon Corp. (EXC)  of  Chicago  and  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  of  New Orleans , to
have adequate equipment and plans in place to cope with a loss
of electric power. Reactor owners in December proposed their
plan for back-up equipment, which NRC officials said would help
to speed the regulatory process.  Safety, Commercial  Not all equipment to be stored at plants needs to be
safety-grade, which may be more expensive than commercial-grade
gear, according to  Marvin Fertel , the industry group’s chief
executive officer. “We think the NRC ought to have a footprint
on whatever we put in place” to ensure that it meets
regulators’ safety standards, he told reporters today at an
event in Washington on the Fukushima disaster.  Reactor owners have purchased or ordered more than 300
pieces of back-up equipment to supplement existing equipment at
the 106 U.S. nuclear plants, the industry group said in a
statement today. Companies have agreed by the end of March to
buy or have under contract equipment to be stored at reactors,
Fertel said.  Nuclear plants are “better off” having commercial-grade
equipment on hand because it provides an additional layer of
safety, Charles Pardee, chairman of the group’s committee that
responded to the  Japan  disaster, said today at a news
conference. “This is a financial risk worth taking,” he said.  ‘Run To Congress’  If regulators decide safeguards require further action by
companies, “the industry could run to Congress and complain
that the NRC was imposing standards that would render useless
all the equipment it had just bought,” the Union of Concerned
Scientists’ report said.  “The NRC needs to tell their industry in no uncertain
terms” that reactors are buying the equipment at their own
risk, it said.  “The industry’s approach, while promising, still has to be
formally evaluated by NRC staff,” Scott Burnell, an agency
spokesman, said in an e-mail today. “The industry’s forward-
leaning approach also leads plants to closely examine the issues
early in the process -- more information will lead to better
eventual solutions,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  