-- Obama Shifts G-8 Talks to Camp David From Chicago in Abrupt Move
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-06T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/obama-shifts-g-8-talks-to-camp-david-from-chicago-in-abrupt-move.html
President  Barack Obama  scrapped
plans to host the Group of Eight summit in his adopted hometown
of  Chicago  and made a surprise announcement to hold the event at
Camp David, the presidential retreat outside of Washington.  The change of venue made so close to the scheduled summit
date was unusual for an event that brings together leaders of
the world’s industrial nations and is typically planned as long
as a year in advance. The White House announced plans for the
summit in Chicago last June.  Rachel Bronson, vice president for studies at the Chicago
Council on Global Affairs, one of two partners on the Chicago
Host Committee, said the group only learned of the change after
the White House made the announcement.  “We’re disappointed,” she said in an interview. “There
was a lot of concern that it was coming here because of protests
and now there’s concern that it’s not coming here.”  A meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization that
originally was planned in tandem with the G-8 summit still will
be held in Chicago on May 20-21, according to a White House
statement. The G-8 leaders will meet the two days before at Camp
David, which is in an isolated area of the Catoctin Mountains
about 62 miles (100 kilometers) northwest of  Washington .  “This change is something the president started
contemplating a couple of weeks ago in conversations with
aides,” said Caitlin Hayden, a National Security Council
spokeswoman.  Hayden said it is too early to confirm travel plans for
leaders who will be going from Camp David to Chicago for the
NATO summit.  Host Committee  Lori Healey, the host committee’s executive director,
played down the move in a statement. She did not mention the G-8
by name and said: “We are honored to be the first major
American city to host a NATO summit and look forward to
showcasing Chicago to the world.”  Jennifer Martinez, press secretary for the host committee,
said the committee learned of the switch from the mayor’s office
earlier yesterday. She said the move “has minimal impact on our
program” since so many of its events are focused on the NATO
summit.  Martinez said members of the host committee and the Chicago
Convention and Tourism Bureau are still planning to travel to
NATO headquarters in Brussels later this month to showcase
Chicago food and culture.  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , who served as Obama’s chief of
staff until October 2010 when he left to run for the office,
released a statement yesterday wishing Obama “and the other
leaders well at the G-8 meeting at Camp David.” Emanuel said
that Chicago looks “forward to hosting the NATO summit.”  ‘Showcase Chicago’  Emanuel said “hosting the NATO summit is a tremendous
opportunity to showcase Chicago to the world and the world to
Chicago and we are proud to host the 50 heads of state, foreign
and defense ministers from the NATO and ISAF countries in our
great city May 19-21.”  Hayden said Obama speaks regularly with Emanuel “and
consulted with him on his decision, as well.”  The administration doesn’t expect significant agreements to
emerge from the G-8 summit, according to an administration
official who wasn’t authorized to discuss the planning. The
meetings will be focused on discussions on issues including the
global economy, the European debt crisis, nuclear non-
proliferation and  Iran , the official said.  The G-8 is made up of the U.S.,  Canada , the U.K.,  Germany ,
 France ,  Italy ,  Japan  and  Russia .  Putin Relationship  The May gathering will be the first trip to the U.S. for
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  since he won the country’s
presidential election on March 4.  After building a warm relationship with Russia’s president,
 Dmitry Medvedev , Obama needs to invest time and energy into
building bridges with Putin, said Andrew Kuchins, senior fellow
of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington.  “It’s important for Obama to establish some personal
relationship and personal chemistry with Vladimir Putin,” said
Kuchins, who said Obama got a “cool reception” when he met
with Putin during a 2009 Moscow visit.  The atmosphere at Camp David, located in wooded hills and
away from an urban area, is akin to that of some past summits,
including the 2004 meeting at  Sea Island ,  Georgia , and the 2010
summit in Muskoka, a vacation resort in Ontario.  “The president felt that Camp David would provide an
informal and intimate setting to have a free-flowing discussion
with his fellow leaders,” National Security Council spokesman
Tommy Vietor said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  