-- Obama Is More Vulnerable Than Republicans Think: Ramesh Ponnuru
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-03-06T00:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/obama-is-more-vulnerable-than-republicans-think-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Real Clear Politics has President
 Barack Obama  leading  Mitt Romney , the likely Republican
presidential nominee, by 4.6 percentage points in its  poll
average . Pollster.com gives Obama a  similar lead . The bettors at
Intrade.com give the Democrats a  60 percent chance  of retaining
the White House.  And Republicans are  growing  more pessimistic. George Will
of the Washington Post thinks they should  throw in the towel .  The conventional wisdom has moved substantially in the
president’s favor in recent weeks, but the underlying
circumstances of the election have not. The Republicans still
have a good shot at winning the presidency.  Start with Obama’s poll numbers, which are mediocre. His
job-approval rating has been trending upward since October, but
is  still below  50 percent. More people disapprove than approve
of his performance  on health care  and  on the economy  -- two
issues likely to be critical in the election. A Gallup/USA Today
poll  recently found  that among swing-state voters, Romney is
actually beating Obama. (As is  Rick Santorum .)      Even in state
polls that have Obama ahead, his numbers are weak: He’s below 46
percent in  Ohio ,  Pennsylvania ,  Florida  and  Iowa . And almost 60
percent of Americans believe the country is “on the wrong
track,” which typically doesn’t bode well for an incumbent
president.  Economic Risks  All these numbers could keep improving for Obama if the
economy keeps improving, too. The conventional wisdom depends on
both straight-line projections coming true. The economy,
however, faces considerable downside risk. An Israeli strike on
 Iran  could send  oil prices  soaring.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis may worsen, and spread to America.  And even an improving economy will not be, by historical
standards, a strong one. No incumbent has won re-election with
unemployment of more than 7.2 percent since  Franklin Roosevelt .
Unemployment has a surprisingly weak correlation with election
outcomes -- but the data set doesn’t include many examples of
elections with joblessness in today’s range. Confident judgments
about how the economy will do, and how it will affect the
election, shouldn’t be trusted.  Our expectations about what the race will look like in the
fall are distorted by what it looks like now. “Our primary is
not much fun to watch -- it’s pretty messy, and it’s pretty
bruising,” says  Ed Gillespie , a former chairman of the
 Republican National Committee . “Once there’s a one-on-one race
between our nominee and the president, all of that changes
overnight.” Republicans will unify, he predicts, “because four
more years of Obama is an untenable thought for any
conservative.”  The likelihood that conservatives would fail to turn out
for Romney is overblown. Conservatives clearly have serious
reservations about him. But come November they will be choosing
between a candidate who favors tax cuts, the repeal of Obama’s
health-care law, and the appointment of conservative Supreme
Court justices, and a candidate who opposes each of those
things. In competitive presidential races, conservatives always
turn out for the Republican.  The back-and-forth of the Republican primaries has driven
up Romney’s “negatives” -- that is, the percentage of Americans
who say they have an unfavorable view of him. This trend is
widely held to be indicative of how costly the primaries have
been for him. But is it really? Some of the people who report
unfavorable views of Romney are conservatives who are currently
supporting candidates his campaign has savaged, but who will
vote for him in November. Many of the rest are people who were
bound to have a negative opinion of Romney by then anyway.  Negatives No Problem  Everyone expects a negative campaign on both sides. The
bitter primary may just have fast-forwarded the increase of
Romney’s negatives. Even with high negatives, and even without
the ability to drive a message that damages Obama, Romney is
only a few points behind Obama in the polls.  Sean Trende, the senior elections analyst for Real Clear
Politics,  pointed out  last November that Obama’s poll numbers
have tended to rise when he has been out of the headlines.
Obama’s recent gain has conformed to the pattern. Republicans
have been absorbed in recent months with internal battles, and
political coverage has been, too. Obama won’t be able to stay
invisible in the fall.  Romney isn’t a natural political talent, and he has had
trouble winning the blue-collar support that he will need in
November. But Obama also lacks an easy rapport with these
voters, and his own political skills are  overrated .  He may well win re-election, as most incumbents do. But if
he is favored to win, he isn’t heavily favored. In recent weeks,
both  E.J. Dionne Jr.  of the Washington Post and  Albert R. Hunt 
of Bloomberg View have warned Obama’s team against
overconfidence. They’re right. The more Obama thinks the
election is his, the less it will be.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 