-- Obama: Iran Policy Critics Talking With ‘Bluster’
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-06T22:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/obama-says-critics-of-iran-nuclear-policy-talking-with-a-lot-of-bluster-.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Republican presidential hopefuls who’ve criticized his approach
on  Iran  are talking with “a lot of bluster” without having the
responsibilities of commander in chief.  If they believe the U.S. should take military action
against Iran, “they should say so,” Obama said in response to
a question at a White House news conference.  Otherwise, he
said, their criticism is “more about politics” than substance.  “These folks don’t have a lot of responsibilities,” he
said of the candidates, without naming them. He said he was
struck by the “casualness” of the way his political opponents
talk about war. “I’m reminded of the costs involved in war.”  Obama spoke the same day that the Republican candidates are
competing in nominating contests in 11 states. The three leading
contenders,  Mitt Romney , Rick Santorum and  Newt Gingrich ,
addressed the annual meeting of the American Israel Public
Affairs Committee, where they accused Obama of not taking strong
enough steps to stop Iran from developing a nuclear weapon.  Obama said the steps he’s taken to isolate Iran, hobble its
economy and bring international pressure on the government in
Tehran is the right course. He repeated a statement he made at
the start of a meeting yesterday with Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu that the U.S. wants to give ever-tightening
sanctions more time to work in the standoff with Iran and there
is a “window of opportunity” for a diplomatic solution. He
also said the U.S. “will not countenance Iran getting a nuclear
weapon.”  Republican Critics  At the meeting of Aipac, a pro- Israel  lobbying group,
Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, said he would “bring
the current policy of procrastination to an end.”  “Hope is not a foreign policy,” Romney said via a
satellite link. “The only thing respected by thugs and tyrants
is our resolve.”  Former House Speaker Gingrich, also addressing the crowd by
satellite, said that in his administration, “we would not keep
talking while the Iranians keep building.”  Obama addressed the conference March 4, saying U.S. support
for Israel is unshakable and that he won’t hesitate to use
military force if necessary.  He said today he’s reminded of the cost of taking military
action when he visits wounded service members or signs letters
to the families of military personnel killed in action.  Paying the Price  “It’s not the folks who are popping off who pay the price;
it’s these incredible men and women in uniform and their
families who pay the price,” Obama said.  Sanctions “are starting to have significant effect inside
Iran” and will get tougher in the coming months, Obama said.  In response to an overture from Iran last month, the
European Union today offered to restart negotiations with Iran
over its nuclear program, seeking a “full settlement” of the
clash that has pushed up  oil prices  and raised the specter of
war in the  Middle East .  In a statement on behalf of  China ,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia ,
the U.K. and the U.S., EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton 
urged Saeed Jalili, Iran’s nuclear envoy, to meet seek an accord
in which Iran would renounce the pursuit of weapons while
retaining the right to nuclear energy.  Obama met at the White House yesterday with Netanyahu for
talks dominated by the threat posed by Iran.  The prime minister said at the start of his meeting with
Obama that Israel must remain “the master of its fate” in
deciding whether a military strike is necessary to prevent Iran
from building a nuclear weapon.  Netanyahu met with congressional leaders today before
leaving the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  