-- FHA to Lower Insurance Premiums for Mortgage Refis
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-03-06T21:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/obama-plan-calls-for-lower-mortgage-insurance-premiums-for-home-refinanngs.html
The  Federal Housing Administration 
will lower mortgage insurance premiums for borrowers who
refinance their loans as part of President Barack Obama’s plan
to improve the housing market.  The FHA will reduce up-front premiums to 0.01 percent of
total loan amount from 1 percent under the plan announced by
Obama today during a news conference at the White House. Annual
fees will be cut to 0.55 percent from 1.15 percent for borrowers
with FHA loans made before June 1, 2009, according to a fact
sheet distributed by the Obama administration.  “I’m not one of those people who thinks we should just sit
by and wait for the housing market to hit bottom,” Obama said
at the news conference. “There are real things we can do right
now,” he said, noting that the changes don’t require
congressional approval.  The fee cuts, which take effect April 9, are part of an
Obama administration effort to spur the economy by helping
homeowners take advantage of historically low mortgage  interest
rates . The changes could increase the reach of FHA’s streamlined
refinance program by 3.4 million households paying  interest
rates  higher than 5 percent, the agency said. A typical borrower
would save about $1,000 a year in premiums and $3,000 a year
including savings from lower rates, the FHA said.  The streamlined refinance program is available to borrowers
with FHA-insured loans who are current on their payments even if
they owe more than their homes are worth. The program doesn’t
require verification of income and employment, and it doesn’t
mandate a new appraisal of the property.  Mortgage Insurers  Private mortgage insurers, which compete against the FHA
providing coverage on loans when borrowers make down payments of
less than 20 percent, declined in New York trading.
Philadelphia-based  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  slipped 5.7 percent to
$3.46 at 4:01 p.m.  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , based in Richmond,
 Virginia , dropped 3.9 percent.  Lower fees for FHA refinancings won’t have an effect on
private mortgage insurers, said  Matthew Howlett , analyst at
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , which has served as an adviser to Radian.  More likely is the higher premiums for new FHA borrowers
will help private insurers gain market share, Howlett said.  “They don’t care if FHA is easing their criteria for
seasoned, pre-2009 borrowers,” he said in an interview today.
“What they’re concentrated on is new borrowers.”  The plan for FHA rate cuts to spur refinancing follows the
agency’s announcement last month that it is raising premiums on
new loans to replenish a  reserve fund  depleted by defaults in
the wake of the 2008 credit crisis.  FHA Audit  An audit released in November revealed that FHA reserves
had fallen to a record $2.6 billion. The agency’s capital ratio,
a measure of the its ability to withstand losses, was 0.24
percent in the year ended Sept. 30, the third straight year it
failed to meet the legal minimum of 2 percent.  Starting April 1, the up-front premium for new 30-year
mortgages will cost 1.75 percent of the loan amount, up from 1
percent. Those increases don’t apply to the streamlined
refinance program.  Annual premiums on larger loans between $625,500 and
$729,750 will rise by 35 basis points, or 0.35 percentage point,
a move announced as part of the FHA budget. Annual premiums on
loans up to $625,500 will rise by 10 basis points.  The reduced fees for streamlined refinancing will cost the
FHA “hundreds of millions of dollars” over the next few years,
though it won’t have a significant impact on the insurance fund,
Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan said
during a conference call with reporters today.  “It’s a relatively small amount,” he said. “We think
that on net this can have close to no impact on the fund.”  Obama also announced an agreement with mortgage servicers
to provide compensation for members of the military who faced
wrongful foreclosure and refunds for those who were improperly
denied refinancing, according to the fact sheet.  Servicers will review of every foreclosure of a military
member’s property and will pay those whose homes were wrongly
repossessed the lost equity plus interest and $116,785.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  