-- Obama Called Limbaugh Target Out of Concern for Daughters
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-06T22:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/obama-called-slur-target-of-limbaugh-out-of-concern-for-daughters-freedom.html
President  Barack Obama  said he
offered support to a Georgetown University law student the day
after  Rush Limbaugh  called her a “slut” on his radio show
because of his two young daughters.  “One of the things I want them to do as they get older is
to engage in issues they care about, even ones I may not agree
with them on,” Obama said in response to a question today at a
White House news conference.  Limbaugh, 61, apologized for his remarks about the student,
Sandra Fluke, on his website on March 3 and on his radio program
yesterday. At least 10 companies have suspended advertising on
Limbaugh’s program, the most popular U.S. talk-radio show, since
the controversy erupted.  Fluke appeared before  House Democrats  in Congress on Feb.
23 to speak in favor of the Obama administration’s policy
requiring insurers to provide  birth control  to women. Earlier,
she had been barred from testifying before a House committee on
what became an all-male panel.  Obama wouldn’t comment on Limbaugh’s apology or whether he
agrees with calls for sponsors to drop the show.  “All decent folks can agree that the remarks that were
made don’t have any place in the public discourse,” he said.  ‘Demeaned and Insulted’  Democracy involves “arguments and disagreements,” but it
doesn’t have mean that you’re “demeaned and insulted,” the
president said.  Obama didn’t respond to a question about Democratic-leaning
media personalities who have made insulting remarks about
Republican women. Republicans have been citing such instances,
and Limbaugh said in his apology that he “acted too much like
the leftists who despise me.”  Comedian  Bill Maher , who has pledged to give $1 million to
a political action committee supporting Obama, last year used a
vulgar term to describe former Alaska Governor and 2008
Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin. An official
from the PAC, Priorities USA Action, didn’t immediately return
an e-mailed request for comment.  Obama said he will “try to lead by example in this
situation, as opposed to commenting on every single comment
that’s made by either politicians or pundits.”  Asked whether Limbaugh’s remarks will result in greater
support for Democrats, Obama said the women’s vote is “not
going to be driven by one statement by one radio announcer.”  Obama said women will vote based on which candidate has the
best plan for the economy and education.  “I’m not somebody who believes that women are going to be
single-issue voters; they never have been,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  