-- Obama Shifts G-8 Summit to Camp David From Chicago for Casual Atmosphere
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-06T20:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/obama-shifts-g-8-summit-to-camp-david-from-chicago-for-casual-atmosphere.html
President  Barack Obama  said he moved
the Group of Eight summit from his adopted hometown of Chicago
to the Camp David presidential retreat in Maryland for a “more
casual backdrop,” not because of security concerns.  “I always have confidence in Chicago being able to handle
security issues,” he said in response to a question at a White
House news conference today. “We know how to deal with a
crowd.”  The White House announced the surprise change yesterday,
which was unusual because it is so close to the scheduled May 18
start date for an event that brings together leaders of the
world’s industrial nations. The summits are planned as much as a
year in advance and the  Chicago  venue was announced last June.  “Somebody pointed out that I hadn’t had any of my
counterparts who I’ve worked with now for three years up to Camp
David,” he said today.  Rachel Bronson, vice president for studies at the Chicago
Council on Global Affairs, one of two partners on the Chicago
Host Committee, said the group only learned of the change after
the White House made the announcement.  “We’re disappointed,” she said in an interview. “There
was a lot of concern that it was coming here because of protests
and now there’s concern that it’s not coming here.”  Chicago NATO Meeting  A meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization that
was planned in tandem with the G-8 summit will still be held in
Chicago on May 20-21, Obama said. The G-8 leaders will travel to
Chicago after two days at Camp David, which in a wooded area of
the Catoctin Mountains about 62 miles (100 kilometers) northwest
of  Washington .  Obama said the G-8 summit “tends to be a more informal
setting in which we talk about a wide range of issues in a
pretty intimate way.”  Lori Healey, the host committee’s executive director,
played down the loss of the G-8 meeting. She didn’t mention the
G-8 by name and said: “We are honored to be the first major
American city to host a NATO summit and look forward to
showcasing Chicago to the world.”  Jennifer Martinez, press secretary for the host committee,
said the committee learned of the switch from the mayor’s office
earlier yesterday. She said the move “has minimal impact on our
program” because so many of its events are focused on the NATO
summit.  Mayor Consulted  Martinez said members of the host committee and the Chicago
Convention and Tourism Bureau still plan to visit NATO
headquarters in Brussels later this month to showcase Chicago
food and culture.  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , who served as Obama’s chief of
staff until October 2010 when he left to run for the office,
released a statement yesterday wishing Obama “and the other
leaders well at the G-8 meeting at Camp David.” Chicago looks
“forward to hosting the NATO summit,” which he called “a
tremendous opportunity to showcase Chicago to the world.”  Caitlin Hayden, a spokeswoman for Obama’s National Security
Council, said the president speaks regularly with Emanuel “and
consulted with him on his decision.”  The G-8 is made up of the U.S.,  Canada , the U.K.,  Germany ,
 France ,  Italy ,  Japan  and  Russia .  Putin Relationship  The May gathering will be the first trip to the U.S. for
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  since he won the country’s
presidential election on March 4.  Obama said “the weather should be good that time of year”
and he said the summit will “give me a chance to spend time
with Mr. Putin, the new Russian president. And from there we
will then fly to Chicago.”  After building a warm relationship with Russian President,
 Dmitry Medvedev , Obama needs to spend time and energy building
bridges with Putin, said Andrew Kuchins, senior fellow of the
Russia and Eurasia Program at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington.  “It’s important for Obama to establish some personal
relationship and personal chemistry with Vladimir Putin,” said
Kuchins, who said Obama got a “cool reception” when he met
with Putin during a 2009 Moscow visit.  Past G-8 summits have sometimes been in secluded settings,
including the 2004 meeting at  Sea Island ,  Georgia , and the 2010
summit in Muskoka, a vacation resort in Ontario.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  