-- Oil Falls to Two-Week Low as EU Offers to Restart Negotiations With Iran
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-03-06T21:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/oil-declines-as-eu-attempts-iran-negotiations-european-economy-contracts.html
Oil dropped to a two-week low in  New
York  as the European Union offered to restart negotiations with
Iran over its nuclear program, reducing the specter of war in
the Middle East, source of 30 percent of the world’s crude.  Futures fell 1.9 percent after  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s
foreign-policy chief, issued a statement on behalf of  China ,
 France ,  Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and the U.S. urging Iran’s
nuclear envoy to meet to seek an accord. Commodities also
declined as the euro-area economy contracted and on concern that
a Greek swap deal will fail.  “Oil was weak earlier on economic worries but held up
better than the other commodities,” said Phil Flynn, an analyst
at PFGBest in  Chicago . “Once the EU announced that it was ready
for talks with  Iran , the oil market started to really move
lower. Anything that looks like some progress is going to push
prices lower.”  Crude oil for April delivery dropped $2.02 to $104.70 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Feb. 17. Futures are up 5.9 percent this year.  Prices were little changed after the American Petroleum
Institute reported oil supplies rose 4.58 million barrels to a
five-month high of 346.5 million last week. The April contract
fell $1.98 to $104.74 at 4:32 p.m. in electronic trading.  Brent oil for April settlement declined $1.82, or 1.5
percent, to end the session at $121.98 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Ashton offered the negotiations to Iran’s Saeed Jalili only
hours after U.S. President  Barack Obama  called for more time to
let diplomacy and sanctions solve the standoff with Iran.  ‘Window of Opportunity’  There is a “window of opportunity” for a diplomatic
solution to the deadlock with Iran, Obama said in response to a
question at a White House news conference today, reiterating a
statement he made yesterday at the start of a meeting with
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.  Netanyahu took his campaign for stopping Iran’s nuclear
program to Congress today. He met with U.S. House Speaker John Boehner and other congressional leaders, wrapping up a five-day
trip to the U.S. and  Canada .  Iran has threatened to block shipments through the Strait
of Hormuz, a transit route for about 20 percent of the world’s
globally traded crude, if its exports are blocked. The country
is the second-biggest oil producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries and pumped 3.45 million barrels a
day last month, according to Bloomberg News figures.  Geopolitical Premium  Tension between Iran and the West over nuclear activities
has added $20 a barrel to the price of oil, Richard Fox, London-
based head of  Middle East  and Africa Sovereigns at Fitch Ratings
Ltd., said today in  London .  “The Iran threat is priced in for the time being,” said
 Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at  Societe Generale  in
New York. “There’s a feeling that prices are too high given the
weak economy and will result in demand destruction.”  Gross domestic product  in countries using the euro declined
0.3 percent from the third quarter, the EU’s statistics office
said today. Private investors that so far declared their
participation in  Greece ’s debt restructuring hold about 20
percent of the bonds involved in a swap required for a bailout.
The goal of the swap, which runs through March 8, is to cut by
53.5 percent the total, helping avert an uncontrolled default.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.5 percent, the worst
drop of the year. The dollar gained 0.8 percent to $1.3114 per
euro. A stronger U.S. currency and weaker euro reduce the appeal
of raw materials as an investment alternative.  ‘Some Progress’  “We’re seeing some progress” reducing tensions between
Iran and the West, said Fred Rigolini, vice president of
Paramount Options Inc. in New York. “When you take the war
factor out, that’s pretty bearish. And there’s a very strong
dollar today.”  Commodities declined to the lowest level since Feb. 17. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials decreased as
much as 1.6 percent, led by coffee and lead.  The U.S. Energy Department  boosted its oil-price projection
for 2012. West Texas Intermediate oil, the grade traded in New
York, will average $105.71 a barrel this year, up $5.31 from the
February projection of $100.40, the Energy Information
Administration, the department’s statistical arm, said today in
its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook. The price has averaged
$101.79 so far this year.  “We think there’s more than just Iran behind the rise in
prices,” said Eric Kreil, an analyst with the EIA in
 Washington , who helped write the report. “This is a tight
market. We’ve had a number of outages in non-OPEC countries and
are looking for demand to rise.”  Supply Disruptions  Conflict in Sudan, South Sudan, Yemen and  Syria  has
crippled production in the countries this year. Total output
outside of OPEC was down about 1 million barrels a day last
month because of the issues, Kreil said. Global consumption will
rise 1.2 percent to 88.96 million barrels a day in 2012.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 668,145
contracts as of 4:33 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 511,740
contracts yesterday, 17 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  