-- Oilseeds May Rise as Production, Stockpiles Fall, Oil World Says
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-03-06T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/oilseeds-may-rise-as-production-stockpiles-fall-oil-world-says.html
Oilseed prices may surge as soybean
production falls on dry weather in  South America , palm oil
output slows and rapeseed stockpiles decline, Hamburg-based
researcher Oil World said.  Global oilseed output is expected to fall by 11 million
metric tons, leading to a 14 million ton shortage in 2011-12,
Oil World said in a report today. Stockpiles will fall as
consumption outpaces production, the researcher said. Soybean
output in  Brazil , the world’s biggest shipper, will fall to 68
million tons, down 9.7 percent from a year ago.  “Even if we assume a considerable slowing-down of the
demand growth, there will still be a massive global oilseed
production deficit,” Oil World said. “This will result in a
corresponding decline of stocks and requires a substantial
increase in world production next season. It could create
nervousness and high price volatility as long as the supply
uncertainty persists in the Northern Hemisphere.”  The 2011-12 crop year will be the first season when world
production of soybeans and rapeseed decline simultaneously, Oil
World said. Sunseed and cottonseed crops are expected to reach
records, the researcher said.  Strikes at Argentinian ports may disrupt shipments from the
South American country, limiting available supplies, according
to the report. A national port-worker strike is expected to
start tomorrow, following some action on March 1. Truck drivers
may go on strike this month and farmer unions have announced
strike actions, Oil World said.  “Truck drivers will reportedly launch a nationwide strike
from mid-March onward to enforce a solution to their previous
calls for increased freight rates for carrying soybeans and
grains,” the researcher said. “The four major farmer unions
have announced that various strike actions will be taken by
their members to protest against government policies as well as
the lack of financial support for farmers who severely suffered
from the drought damage in December and January.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 