-- London Banks Face Accusations Over Libor
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-03-06T11:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/london-banks-face-accusations-over-libor-fixing.html
U.K. regulators and  banks  met to
discuss revisions to the setting of global  interest rates  after
lenders faced allegations that they manipulated the benchmark
for about $360 trillion of securities.  The meeting was held yesterday to “consider future
regulatory and market developments” for the London interbank
offered rate, the  British Bankers’ Association  said in a
statement today. Regulators and banks now plan to initiate a
“technical discussion” about “likely future developments”
with market participants who rely on Libor, the BBA said.  U.K., U.S., Canadian and Japanese regulators have been
investigating whether banks misstated Libor submissions to hide
their difficulty raising funds or to benefit trading positions
in interest rate derivatives tied to the benchmark. The probes
have called into question whether lenders can be trusted to set,
with no regulatory oversight, a rate that is linked to
everything from floating-rate mortgages to commercial loans.  Libor is generated through a daily survey of firms
conducted on behalf of the BBA in which banks are asked how much
it would cost them to borrow from one another for 15 different
time periods, from overnight to one year, in currencies
including dollars, euro, yen, and Swiss francs. After a
predetermined number of quotes are excluded, those left are
averaged and published for each currency before noon.  The BBA says on its website that typically a bank’s
treasurer or other nominated individual is the only person at a
lender responsible for making Libor submissions. There are also
written guidelines on what a submitter should take into account
when calculating a firm’s daily rates, the BBA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  