-- Honeywell Value Gap Spurs CEO Chasing Darling Status Lost by GE
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-03-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/honeywell-value-gap-spurs-ceo-chasing-darling-status-lost-by-ge.html
Dave Cote has won analysts’ support
for his view that  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  is on a path to
higher margins and revenue growth that merit a premium stock
valuation. Converting investors may prove tougher.  Honeywell’s chief executive officer may tell investors in
 New York  tomorrow that the maker of cockpit electronics and work
boots is set to meet a 2014 target of boosting a benchmark gauge
of profit margins to as much as 18 percent, up 470 basis points
from 2009, said  Deane Dray , a Citigroup Inc. analyst.  Cote’s goal starting his second decade as CEO is to join
manufacturers such as  Danaher Corp. (DHR)  and  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR) 
with price-earnings ratios topping  peers ’. His challenge: Even
with a six-month, 30 percent stock surge before today,
Honeywell’s 13.6 ratio still trails the 14.7 average of the 61
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Industrials Index.  “I’m not convinced yet,” said Gary Flam, who helps manage
$6.5 billion for Bel Air Investment Advisors LLC in  Los Angeles .
“I’d like to see how they perform through a downturn to have
the confidence that it’s truly a repositioned business and not
just benefiting from an upturn.”  Flam still wasn’t ready to buy after a Feb. 23 conference
in Miami where Chief Financial Officer  David Anderson  previewed
tomorrow’s planned remarks from Cote. CEOs want their stock to
be seen as a must-have when prices rise and a buying opportunity
when they fall, a status that can take years to earn, Flam said.  Danaher, Emerson  While  Morris Township , New Jersey-based Honeywell has buy
ratings from 15 analysts to seven holds and no sells, its price-
earnings ratio lagged behind yesterday’s 18.8 for Danaher, which
makes microscopes and water-treatment systems. Emerson, a maker
of motors for assembly lines and compressors for air
conditioners, had a ratio of 15.7.  Honeywell’s ratio also was lower than the 14.1 for  General
Electric Co. (GE) , “the darling stock that everybody loved” before
losing that halo as U.S. stocks slumped in late 2008 and early
2009, said Scott Davis, a Barclays Plc analyst in New York.  GE’s ratio averaged 34 in 2001 -- the year it dropped a bid
for Honeywell -- and peaked at an average of 48 in 2000. At $46
billion yesterday, Honeywell’s market value trailed GE’s $199
billion and exceeded the $36 billion each for Danaher and
Emerson.  Five years ago, analysts struggled to gauge Honeywell’s
progress because  earnings  were marred by charges and
impairments, such as costs for asbestos settlements, said
Citigroup’s Dray in New York. Businesses that underperformed or
didn’t fit have been sold, Dray said. The Consumer Products
Group was sold in July in a cash transaction valued at $950
million.  Meeting Targets  Now, Anderson said Honeywell’s ability to command a higher
PE will pivot on meeting 2012 and 2013 profit targets. Earnings
will get a bump from $150 million of cost savings starting this
year, Honeywell has said.  “We’re demonstrating top-tier performance,” Anderson said
in an interview. “To get to a premium valuation, and that is
where you want to be, you need a little more proof,
demonstrating through this time period that we can perform. If
we do that, we have a good shot of that happening.”  Honeywell closed yesterday at $59.10 in New York, up 4.6
percent in the past year to outstrip a drop of 0.5 percent for
the  S&P 500 Industrials (S5INDU)  and a 3.3 percent gain for the broader
 S&P 500 Index .  GE fell  7.5 percent in the same period.  Merger Collapse  Cote, 59, took over in February 2002 as Honeywell reeled
from the collapse of the GE merger agreement four months
earlier, after European regulators vetoed the deal and then-CEO
Michael Bonsignore was ousted. Honeywell was losing market share
and employees were jumping ship, said Steven Winoker, a Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York.  “They were continuously disappointing and highly
undermanaged,” said Winoker, who recommends holding the shares.
“That’s changed.”  Cote, who previously ran GE’s appliance business and was
CEO of TRW Inc. in 2001, cut operating costs, boosted spending
on new products and worked to meld separate cultures that
persisted after Honeywell’s 1999 acquisition by AlliedSignal
Corp., which kept the Honeywell name.  “He has done a good job restructuring the company,” said
Diane Jaffee, a New York-based fund manager for Trust Company of
the West, which owns Honeywell shares. “It was basically gutted
after that failed takeover by GE.”  Benchmark Margin  Honeywell’s benchmark margin is based on profits from its
four main segments, which excludes corporate expenses, divided
by the units’ sales. The company’s five-year goal is segment
margins of 16 percent to 18 percent by 2014 and sales of $41
billion to $45 billion, as much as 23 percent more than in 2011.  The so-called segment margins have risen an average of 0.5
percentage point a year since 2003, according to Anderson’s
presentation at the Feb. 23 conference.  Businesses driving  earnings  include digital cockpit
controls and auxiliary power units for aircraft; a performance
materials unit that serves the oil and gas industry; and a
safety unit specializing in personal workplace protection, said
Dray, the Citigroup analyst. He rates the shares as “buy.”  The company should be on its way to being an investor
darling, said Dray, who bestows that status after studying
indicators such as return on equity, organic sales growth, non-
U.S. revenue, free  cash flow , and earnings through peaks and
troughs.  Litmus Test  “One of the clearest, unbiased litmus tests is when you
start seeing these companies trading at a premium consistently,
not just for a quarter,” Dray said in an interview. “This
momentum toward excellence and the marching up of the margins is
sustainable, and Honeywell can get there.”  Bel Air Investment Advisors’ Flam said he likes Honeywell’s
markets and agrees that management has improved operations. He
also noted difficulties ranging from  Europe ’s economic slump,
which is damping sales of automobile turbochargers, and cuts in
U.S. military spending weighing on the aerospace unit.  An underfunded pension plan will force contributions of as
much as $1 billion in 2012, asbestos claims are forecast this
year to be $165 million net of insurance recoveries, and costs
for environmental remediation are estimated at $300 million,
according to a Honeywell filing on Feb. 17.  “Expectations from investors are starting to rise,” Flam
said. “If the company continues to execute, I would expect the
multiple to continue to expand. You have to earn your stripes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  