-- Lorillard Told by Jury to Pay $25 Million to Smoker’s Widow
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-03-06T18:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/lorillard-is-ordered-by-jury-to-pay-25-million-to-florida-smoker-s-widow.html
Lorillard Inc. (LO) , the maker of Newport
cigarettes, was ordered to pay a Florida widow $25 million in
punitive damages by a Miami jury, the week after she was awarded
$16 million in compensatory damages.  The state court jury today awarded the full amount that
Dorothy Alexander’s attorney, Alex Alvarez, had urged them as
punishment for her husband’s death. The Alexanders met in high
school in Miami and were married for 38 years, until he died of
 lung cancer  in 1995 at age 59.  “One of the most difficult things to do is to lose your
husband, the love of your life, and then she went on and fought
one of the largest businesses in America, and fought for
justice,” Alvarez said after the jury announced the punitive
damages verdict.  After a monthlong trial, the jury decided last week that
Dorothy Alexander was entitled to $20 million in compensatory
damages for the loss of her husband, Coleman Alexander. The jury
reduced Lorillard’s responsibility for his death by 20 percent,
for a final award of $16 million.  “Lorillard is disappointed with the jury’s decision, and
the company plans to appeal,” said Gregg Perry, a company
spokesman.  Ed Cheffy, an attorney for Greensboro, North Carolina-based
Lorillard, had argued that his client shouldn’t be forced to pay
punitive damages because cigarettes are not illegal.  “Lorillard complies with all of the laws and all of the
regulations that govern the manufacture, marketing and sale of
cigarettes,” he told the jury.  The case is Alexander v. Lorillard Tobacco Co., 07-46830-
ca-10, 11th Judicial Circuit Court of  Florida  (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 