-- Morton’s Makeover Seen in $39 Steaks at Landry’s Chain: Retail
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-03-06T16:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/morton-s-makeover-seen-in-39-steak-for-landry-s-chain-retail.html
In an industry where appetite is a
business imperative, restaurant owner Tilman J. Fertitta has a
larger hunger than most.  In the past three months alone, Fertitta’s closely held
Landry’s Inc. has gobbled up two iconic names in American
dining: Morton’s Restaurant Group and McCormick & Schmick’s
Seafood Restaurants.  Fertitta is betting that an improving economy will power
fine-dining restaurants such as Morton’s, which is known for its
22-ounce, $54 Chicago-style ribeye steak. To boost growth at the
67-store chain, Landry’s 54-year-old chairman and chief
executive officer is adding more affordable items to the menu,
such as $29 shrimp scampi capellini and a $39 filet mignon. He’s
also tweaking the ambiance -- hipper music, new uniforms -- in
an attempt to attract a younger crowd.  “It’s not going to be your daddy’s steakhouse,” said
Fertitta, whose drawl betrays his Galveston, Texas, upbringing.  Fertitta’s empire encompasses more than 400 properties,
including casinos, hotels and aquariums. While his acquisition
spree is slowing, Fertitta may divest or take certain brands
public, he said in an interview at his eighth-floor Houston
office, which boasts a balcony with a downtown view and statues
of eagles and dolphins. He sold Joe’s Crab Shack to J.H. Whitney
Capital Partners LLC in 2006 for $192 million.  Rising Revenue  Revenue at Landry’s restaurants, hotels and entertainment
segment rose 59 percent to $1.42 billion last year, gaining for
the second year after dropping 5.3 percent in 2009. In the U.S.,
sales at  full-service  dining chains advanced 2.5 percent to $179
billion in 2011, according to Chicago-based research firm
Technomic Inc. This year Landry’s as a whole will generate sales
of $2.5 billion, a 41-fold increase since 1993, when the company
originally went public.  Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization rose 37 percent last year to $290 million. Average
sales per restaurant are $5.4 million compared with $4.7 million
at  Darden Restaurants Inc.’s (DRI)   Olive Garden  and $10.2 million at
 Cheesecake Factory Inc. (CAKE) , according to company filings.  Fertitta, who dropped out of business classes at the
 University of Houston  to become an entrepreneur, bought his
first two restaurants in 1986, the same year he opened his  first
hotel (2706)  in Galveston. In 2005, he moved into gaming with the $295
million purchase of Golden Nugget Hotels and Casinos in Las
Vegas and Laughlin,  Nevada . Yesterday he added to his holdings,
paying $45 million for the Isle Casino Hotel in Biloxi,
 Mississippi .  Barnum Showmanship  Over the years, Fertitta has earned a reputation for P.T.
Barnum-style showmanship and a knack for understanding
consumers. His Houston aquarium features the “Mysterious White
Tigers of the Maharaja’s Temple” and a 300-pound python. A
Rainforest Cafe in Galveston has an adventure ride; diners take
a boat through a winding river with lush vegetation and
animatronic jungle animals, including a gorilla and an elephant.  “He has an amazing sense of what the average person
wants,” said Robert Eury, president of Central Houston Inc.,
who has worked with Fertitta on several projects, including the
city’s Downtown Aquarium. Fertitta also has a knack for figuring
out what price consumers are willing to pay, Eury said.  Fertitta has expanded  Landry’s (LNY)  mostly by modernizing
struggling brands. He’s so immersed in the details he says he
can tell the difference between a 60- and 70-watt light bulb.
It’s the little things that bug him -- wobbly tables, crumbs on
the bar, cigarette butts near the front entrance.  “When you walk in 95 percent of everything is right, five
percent is wrong,” he said.  Empire Hiccups  Fertitta’s empire-building hasn’t been without hiccups.
Landry’s, especially its casino business, suffered during the
economic downturn, as consumers pulled back on discretionary
spending and vacations. Restaurant and hotel revenue have
rebounded since the recession, while the gaming division hasn’t
recovered quite as quickly, Fertitta said.  “It’s not back to 2007 numbers,” he said.  Fertitta has drawn criticism for building showy properties
in Houston and Galveston. Some said he over-commercialized the
area and brought in too many tourists and cruise ships, said
Roger Quiroga, a former Galveston mayor who suggested changing
the name of 57th Street to Tilman Fertitta Boulevard in 2004.
The proposal died for lack of support, he said.  Analysts’ Demands  In October 2010, Fertitta spent $1.4 billion to take
Landry’s private to avoid investors’ and analysts’ demands for
quarterly results. He eventually paid $24.50 a share, after
offering $14.75 in cash, and facing resistance from investors
including  Bill Ackman , head of New York-based hedge fund
Pershing Square Capital Management LP.  “When you’re public, you’re at the mercy of the markets,”
Fertitta said. “You can be doing extremely well, but if the
markets are in the tank or your industry is in the tank, you
don’t get rewarded for it.”  While Landry’s had $1.18 billion in debt in 2010, according
to filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
Fertitta said he’s not worried about leverage because his
company has hard, physical assets.  “He’s levered, but not over-levered,” said Dave Jacquin,
the founder of North Point Advisors, a San Francisco consulting
firm that worked on the Morton’s and McCormick & Schmick’s
deals. Fertitta may consider taking one or two restaurant brands
public, such as Saltgrass Steak House, which has growth
potential and could be a national brand, Jacquin said.  Fertitta plans to leave Landry’s to his four children and
has “no intention of ever selling the company,” he said.  In late January, Fertitta was immersed in the details as
usual, walking a carpet sample in his black loafers.  “It looks weak to me,” he said of the red, black and
white Asian-inspired floor covering for a bar at the Golden
Nugget in  Las Vegas . “I like more solids, it’s too fractured.”  Still, he solicited his designers’ opinions.  “Don’t agree if you disagree,” he said. “You need to get
on it, though. I don’t want to be waiting on carpet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  