-- House Committee OKS Bill to Curb FCC in Merger Reviews
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-03-06T17:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/house-panel-advances-bill-to-curb-u-s-fcc-in-reviewing-mergers.html
A House committee voted to advance a
Republican-sponsored bill to limit concessions the Federal
Communications Commission can require of companies seeking
approval to merge.  The 31-16 vote today by the Energy and Commerce Committee
sends the bill on for consideration by the full House. No action
has been scheduled for a version introduced in the Senate.  The bill sponsored by Representative Greg Walden, an Oregon
Republican, would prevent the FCC from setting limits on a
merging company’s behavior that aren’t related to the
transaction. The measure, H.R. 3309, also would require the FCC
to identify a harm to be remedied before adopting rules, and to
publish regulations before it votes upon them.  The FCC under Chairman  Julius Genachowski , a Democrat, has
improved its procedures, Walden said yesterday as the hearing on
the bill began.  “However, even this commission has overreached its
statutory authority and been less than open and transparent in
its rulemaking, and we need to lock in reform,” Walden said,
according to a statement.  Democrats criticized the bill, with Representative Henry Waxman of  California  saying it would “disable the FCC, not
reform it.”  He added in a statement that “this legislation would tie
the agency in knots and subject it to endless legal
challenges.”  Walden earlier said he was troubled that the FCC requires
conditions from merging companies. He cited  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
pledge last year not to interfere unfairly with subscribers’ Web
traffic, which the Philadelphia-based company gave as it won
approval to buy  NBC Universal .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  