-- House Panel Approves Repeal of Medicare Board in Health-Care Law
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-03-06T17:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/house-panel-approves-repeal-of-medicare-board-in-health-care-law.html
The U.S.  House Energy and Commerce
Committee  approved legislation that would repeal implementation
of an advisory board created to recommend cuts to Medicare, the
U.S. health program for the elderly and disabled.  Under the 2010 health-care overhaul, the Independent
Payment Advisory Board could draft reductions to Medicare
payments for doctors, hospitals and other providers without
congressional approval. The board would have 15 members selected
by the president and confirmed by the Senate; none have been
named to the panel.  The committee approved the bill, H.R. 452, by voice vote
today.  “The president’s health-care law says that cutting $575
billion from Medicare to fund new health entitlements and then
allowing a 15-member panel of unelected bureaucrats to decide
what health-care goods and services are valuable is the way to
reform the program,” Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan
Republican and the committee’s chairman, said yesterday in a
statement on the opening day of the hearing on the bill.  Starting in 2015, the board would have the power to
recommend cuts not exceeding 0.5 percent of  Medicare spending ,
increasing to 1.5 percent for 2018 and beyond. If Congress fails
to pass legislation to lower spending that matches the levels
recommended by the board, then the board’s recommendations would
automatically take effect.  In October, 20 medical associations urged a congressional
“supercommittee” considering a deficit reduction package to
support repeal of the board in its proposal. They said that the
board lacked transparency and accountability and that strict
budgetary targets and other limitations would limit seniors’
access to health care.  Obama Administration Opposed  In a letter this morning to the committee leadership,
Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  stated the
administration’s “strong opposition” to the bill, saying it
would add “billions of dollars to the federal  budget deficit ”
while repealing an ‘important tool’’ to strengthen the Medicare
program.  The House on Feb. 1 passed legislation that would repeal a
provision in the health-care law setting up a government-
sponsored long-term care insurance program. That measure is now
in the Senate, where Democrats don’t plan to bring it up for
consideration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  