-- Toyota May Make ‘Tens of Thousands’ of Hydrogen Cars by 2020s
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-03-06T22:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/toyota-may-make-tens-of-thousands-of-hydrogen-cars-by-2020s.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
largest seller of hybrid vehicles, wants to be able to supply
thousands of hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles annually in the next
decade in anticipation of demand for petroleum-free autos.  The carmaker displayed its hydrogen-powered FCV-R concept
car today at the Geneva motor show, reiterating its intention to
sell vehicles based on the non-polluting sedan by 2015.  “We are preparing to be able to produce tens of thousands
per year in the 2020s,” Didier Leroy, head of Toyota’s European
operations, said in prepared remarks in Geneva. The Toyota City,
Japan-based automaker hasn’t yet detailed the price or marketing
plans for fuel-cell cars or set a global sales target, said  John
Hanson , a spokesman for the company’s U.S. unit.  Toyota, which is selling a plug-in version of its Prius
hybrid and this year adds battery-powered RAV4 and Scion iQ
models, has said it’s reducing cost and technical hurdles that
have kept hydrogen fuel-cell cars from being sold to retail
customers. Hydrogen’s appeal as a fuel is its abundance and
ability to propel vehicles distances comparable to gasoline.  Drawbacks include the high cost of producing the fuel cells
themselves, layers of plastic film coated with platinum
sandwiched between metal plates that produce electricity, and
few stations equipped to dispense hydrogen fuel.  Toyota in Geneva today also showed the FT-Bh concept
vehicle, a small, lightweight gasoline-electric hatchback that
the company said will have  carbon emissions  that are less than
half the average for similarly sized cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  