-- Palladium Slides on Growth Concern, Dollar; Platinum Declines
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-03-06T16:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/palladium-slides-on-growth-concern-dollar-platinum-declines.html
Palladium fell to a six-week low and
platinum declined in London on concern slower growth will cut
demand and as a stronger dollar eroded the metals’ appeal as an
alternative investment.  The dollar climbed to a two-week high versus six currencies
after a report showed  Europe ’s economy contracted last quarter
and as  Greece  struggles to complete a bond exchange with private
investors by March 8.  Richard Fisher , Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas president, said yesterday investors should prepare for
less U.S. monetary easing. Platinum and palladium are used more
in industry than gold.  “Growth fears and the U.S. dollar strength” are
pressuring the metals,  Peter Fertig , owner of Quantitative
Commodity Research Ltd. in Hainburg,  Germany , said today by
phone. “Fears over the Greek debt restructuring are weighing on
risky assets.”  Palladium for immediate delivery slipped as much as 4.8
percent to $671 an ounce, the lowest level since Jan. 20, and
traded at $679.50 by 4 p.m. in  London . It’s up 3.7 percent
this year. Platinum was 2.8 percent lower at $1,616.50 an ounce
after falling to $1,604.50, the lowest price since Feb. 16. It’s
gained 15 percent this year.  Europe’s gross domestic product shrank 0.3 percent from the
third quarter, the region’s statistics office said today. China
cut its forecast yesterday for economic growth to 7.5 percent
this year.  Pollution Control  Platinum and palladium are mainly used in pollution-control
devices in vehicles and jewelry. Concerns about slowing auto
sales may be pressuring prices, Fertig said.  Automobile sales in China, the world’s biggest car market,
may be having their worst start in seven years as a slowing
economy and record gasoline prices keep consumers away from
dealerships, according to a Bloomberg survey. The  China 
Association of Automobile Manufacturers will release industry
data later this month.  Platinum held in exchange-traded products backed by the
metals increased 9.4 percent this year to 43.9 metric tons, the
highest level since September, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Palladium assets climbed 11 percent this year to 57.4 tons.  Gold’s premium to platinum was at 3.3 percent today,
compared with as much as 15 percent at the close on Jan. 6,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The premium dropped to
0.8 percent on March 2. Gold declined as much as 2.5 percent in
London today and silver slipped as much as 4.2 percent.  “Besides the general decrease in prices of precious
metals, the restart of production at the world’s largest
platinum mine, Rustenburg in  South Africa , is weighing on the
price,” Commerzbank AG analysts in  Frankfurt  wrote today in a
report.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. remains on target to restart
operations at the mine after a stoppage of more than five weeks
over a pay dispute, spokesman Johan Theron said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  