-- Panetta Counters Critics on Israel With Missile Defense Pledge
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-03-06T18:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/panetta-counters-critics-on-israel-with-missile-defense-pledge.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta ,
countering criticism the U.S. is cutting funding for  Israel ’s
missile defenses as the threat from Iran grows, told Jewish
leaders the Obama administration has doubled such spending.  President Barack Obama has pledged more than $650 million
in funding since 2009 for Israel’s missile defenses, twice the
level planned during the administration of President  George W.
Bush , Panetta told about 14,000 members of the American Israel
Public Affairs Committee in Washington today.  Rockets from the  Gaza Strip  and the potential for Iranian
missile attacks pose “one of the most immediate threats to the
security of Israel,” Panetta said. “We are actively working
with Israel at all levels” on missile defense, he said.  Promoting missile defense aid is one way the Obama
administration is seeking to show it is committed to maintaining
Israel’s military superiority as the allies debate how long to
wait before a potential military strike against  Iran’s nuclear
program .  U.S. lawmakers have questioned why the Pentagon’s fiscal
2013 budget seeks $99.8 million for Israel’s missile defenses, a
reduction from the $106 million the administration requested
last year and the $216 million that Congress provided.  Republican Representatives Howard McKeon of California,
chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, and Ileana Ros- Lehtinen of Florida, head of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee, wrote Obama Feb. 14 that they were “deeply
concerned” about the administration’s request “at a time of
rising threats to our strongest ally.”  Boeing, Israel Aerospace  Boeing Co. (BA) , Rafael Advanced Defense Systems Ltd. and Israel
Aerospace Industries Ltd. are among the top Israel missile-
defense contractors.  Panetta said in a Feb. 17 letter to McKeon and Ros-Lehtinen
that Obama “will continue to support Israel’s defense needs
with robust financial assistance and extensive military
cooperation.”  He repeated that argument when he testified before the
House Budget Committee on Feb. 29. The adequacy of the missile-
defense aid was questioned there by Republican Representative
 Tom Price  of Georgia and Democratic Representatives Bill Pascrell of New Jersey and  Debbie Wasserman Schultz  of Florida.  The Pentagon plans to request $502.2 million for Israeli
missile defense through 2017, with spending dropping to $95.7
million in fiscal 2014 and then increasing to $96.8 million in
2015 and $103.9 million in 2016 before hitting $106 million in
fiscal 2017, according to Missile Defense Agency budget
documents that detail “Israeli Cooperative Programs.”  The biggest spending item through 2017 is $270 million for
the Israeli Upper Tier program intended to field a new Arrow 3
missile that can cover four times the area of the current
version. A goal is to start initial production in 2014.  Israel Aerospace Industries is the prime contractor for the
program and will subcontract with U.S. companies such as Boeing,
according to Missile Defense Agency budget documents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  