-- Patriots Designate Wes Welker Franchise Player While Texans Re-Sign Foster
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/patriots-designate-wes-welker-franchise-player-while-texans-re-sign-foster.html
The  New England Patriots  designated
 Pro Bowl  wide receiver  Wes Welker  as their franchise player
ahead of yesterday’s  National Football League  deadline, while
Houston Texans running back  Arian Foster  avoided the tag by
agreeing to a long-term contract extension.  Welker was one of 21 players to receive the designation,
which virtually assures them of remaining with their current
teams for at least one more season.  Franchise players must be offered a one-year salary that’s
the average of the five highest-paid players at their position.
If any team signs another club’s non-exclusive franchise player,
it would have to give up two first-round draft picks.  “Utilizing the franchise designation allows both sides
more time to try to reach an agreement, which is the goal,” the
Patriots said yesterday in a statement. “Wes remains a
contractual priority and we are hopeful that he will remain a
Patriot for years to come.”  The Patriots used their franchise player designation on
nose tackle Vince Wilfork in 2010 and guard Logan Mankins last
year before reaching long-term deals with both players.  Welker had an NFL-best 122 catches for  New England  last
season and set a team record with 1,569 yards receiving. He’s
been to four straight Pro Bowls and his 554 catches since
joining New England in 2007 are the most in the NFL. The
Patriots would have to offer Welker a one-year contract worth
about $9.4 million, NFL.com said.  Foster’s Five-Year Pact  Foster, the NFL’s 2010 rushing leader, avoided the
franchise tag by agreeing on a five-year contract extension with
the Texans, according to his agent. The accord is worth $43.5
million, with almost $21 million guaranteed, the  Associated
Press  said. The 25-year-old Foster rushed for 1,224 yards and 10
touchdowns in 13 games last season, helping the franchise to its
first playoff victory.  Steve Johnson, the first Buffalo Bills receiver to post
back-to-back 1,000-yard seasons, also signed a multiyear
extension yesterday. Johnson, who caught 76 passes for 1,004
yards and seven scores last season, got a five-year deal worth
$36 million, according to the AP.  New Orleans  Saints quarterback Drew Brees was the only
player to receive the exclusive franchise tag, meaning he’s not
able to sign with another club.  Running backs Matt Forte of the Chicago Bears and  Ray Rice 
of the  Baltimore Ravens  were among the other franchise players,
along with wide receivers Dwayne Bowe of the  Kansas City Chiefs 
and  DeSean Jackson  of the  Philadelphia Eagles .  The Super Bowl-champion New York Giants used their
franchise player designation on punter  Steve Weatherford .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  