-- Penguins’ Captain Sidney Crosby Says He May Return to Lineup by Next Week
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-03-06T19:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/penguins-captain-sidney-crosby-says-he-may-return-to-lineup-by-next-week.html
Sidney Crosby , the Pittsburgh
Penguins’ captain who has missed most of the season due to
concussion symptoms and a neck injury, said he could return to
the lineup by next week.  Crosby, who led the National Hockey League team in scoring
last season, was cleared to practice with full contact today,
the latest step in his return attempt. While the 24-year-old
center said there is no official timetable, his return could
come in less than a week.  “No sooner than Sunday, I would say,” Crosby said on the
team’s website. “But I’m not going to sit here and put a date
on it. It would be total guesswork.”  Crosby has been skating with his teammates and
participating in non-contact drills since Feb. 6. He hasn’t
played since Dec. 5 and was diagnosed with a soft-tissue neck
injury last month. Doctors said the characteristics of the neck
injury are similar to concussion symptoms.  “I’ve been through this before,” Crosby said. “Contact
is the big step. It’s nice to be symptom free, but it’s not as
fulfilling until you get out there. I just want to make sure
that I take the right steps here and get back out there soon.”  Crosby sustained back-to-back head injuries in last year’s
Jan. 1 Winter Classic against the  Washington Capitals  and again
four days later against the  Tampa Bay Lightning . He missed the
rest of the 2010-11 season. Crosby returned to the ice this
season for eight games until he was sidelined when concussion-
like symptoms returned during a game against  Boston  on Dec. 5.  He was the first pick of the 2005 draft, and two years
later won the Hart Trophy as the NHL’s Most Valuable Player at
the age of 19, the youngest to get the honor. He also scored the
gold medal-winning goal at the 2010 Winter Olympics in
 Vancouver , lifting  Canada  over the U.S. in overtime.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  