-- Peru to Transfer Sugar Company Stocks to Workers by End-June
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-03-06T22:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/peru-to-transfer-sugar-company-stocks-to-workers-by-end-june.html
Peru ’s government will hand over its
remaining shares in three sugar mills by the end of June,
marking its withdrawal from an industry expropriated by a
military regime in 1969, a congressman said.  The government plans to transfer its stakes in Empresa
Agroindustrial Pomalca SA,  Empresa Agroindustrial Cayalti SA (CAYALTC1)  and
 Empresa Agroindustrial Tuman SA (TUMANC1)  to workers in exchange for their
unpaid benefits, Jose Leon, president of the congressional
agricultural committee, said by telephone today from Lima. The
state owns 33 percent of Pomalca, 24 percent of Cayalti and
7.2 percent of Tucuman.  “These companies have been inefficient due to poor state
management,” said Leon, who as chairman oversaw the sale of
Peru’s largest sugar cooperative  Casa Grande SAA (CASAGRC1)  to  Gloria SA (GLORIAI1)  in
2006. “It will be positive for the state to start withdrawing
from companies, as it brought a great deal of disorder.”  Peru’s sugar production has doubled since 1997 when then-
President Alberto Fujimori overturned a 1969 agrarian reform and
sold shares in Peru’s 11 sugar cooperatives. Output was 1.25
million metric tons last year, according to the U.S. Department
of Agriculture.  The state’s shareholdings in Pomalca and Tuman will be
priced at their average traded price in the 30 days to Dec. 28,
said Leon, a former agriculture minister. The stake in Cayalti
will be calculated from last year’s earnings, he said.  Workers will be able to buy the shares in exchange for
wages, health insurance and other compensation owed to them by
the companies, which will then owe the state.  Pomalca and Tuman, which are both controlled by the Peru’s
Oviedo Group, have gained 16 and 18 percent, respectively, this
year in  Lima  trading. Cayalti, which is under management by
state development bank Cofide, hasn’t traded this year.  Raw sugar for May delivery fell 2.6 percent, to 24.05 cents
a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  