-- Peugeot to Sell Shares at 42% Discount in $1.3 Billion Capital Expansion
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-03-06T16:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/peugeot-seeks-to-raise-1-3b-in-rights-offer.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest carmaker, plans to sell shares in a 1 billion-
euro ($1.32 billion) capital increase at a 42 percent discount.  Shareholders, who will have the right to buy 16 shares for
every 31 they already own, will pay 8.27 euros per share, the
Paris-based carmaker said in an e-mailed statement today. That
compares with a closing price of 14.21 euros yesterday.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Peugeot announced last week a broad
alliance that will include joint purchasing and vehicle
development in an effort to revitalize their European
operations. GM will buy 7 percent of the French carmaker as part
of the partnership.  “This money will be directed to our strategic projects
with GM,” Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon
said on a conference call with journalists today. “The money
will allow us to accelerate this strategy.”  Peugeot  declined  50 cents, or 3.5 percent, to 13.71 euros
at the close of Paris trading. The shares have gained 13 percent
this year, valuing the French carmaker at 3.21 billion euros.  “The share price never falls down to the offer price,”
said Philippe Houchois, a UBS AG automotive analyst in  London .
“In theory, the price should be 12.30 euros, but a lot will
happen in the next two weeks. Peugeot’s shares will eventually
stabilize if everything remains constant.”  No Dividend  Peugeot said that 31 percent of the shares were already
subscribed through commitments from the Peugeot family and GM.
The Detroit-based  carmaker  said yesterday that it had agreed to
pay about 320 million euros to acquire its stake. Peugeot will
not pay a 2011 dividend and instead use the money for projects.  “We need our dividend to invest in projects despite the
positive result,” the CFO said.  The GM-Peugeot agreement calls for at least four vehicles
to be manufactured within four years, or planned for production
within the following 18 months, GM said yesterday in a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Peugeot is projected to use just 62 percent of its European
capacity this year, compared with 74 percent at Opel, according
to LMC Automotive in Oxford,  England . The two have not mentioned
any plans to close plants or cut jobs as part of the alliance.  “Without reductions in production capacity, the two
carmakers are unlikely to derive any benefits from the alliance
before 2014, when the advantages of joint purchasing abilities
become effective,” said  Albrecht Denninghoff , a Frankfurt-based
Silvia Quandt analyst.  Peugeot Family  The offer price is a 32 percent discount to the theoretical
ex-right price of 12.33 euros, the carmaker said.  The Peugeot family will remain the largest shareholder
following the increase, with 25.2 percent of the capital and
37.9 percent of the  voting rights , Peugeot said. The family
currently owns 30.3 percent of the capital.  The initial terms of the alliance are for 10 years with
automatic renewal periods of three years, GM said. The U.S.
automaker will become the second-largest shareholder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Geneva via the Frankfurt newsroom at 
146 or  awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  