-- Pfizer, WIPO, WTO, Google, Megaupload: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/pfizer-wipo-wto-google-megaupload-intellectual-property.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, sued a unit of Johnson & Johnson, contending it
infringes its U.S. patent 5,918,590, which covers pain-relieving
heat-patch technology.  Pfizer, based in  New York , is seeking unspecified damages
after a jury trial and a halt to sales of Fort Washington,
Pennsylvania-based McNeil-PPC’s Precise-brand patch, according
to a complaint filed in federal court in  Delaware  yesterday.  “McNeil was aware of the patent” because its number “is
clearly marked on the packaging of Thermacare, Pfizer’s
competing heat-wrap product,” Pfizer lawyers allege.  Pfizer, with $67.4 billion in sales last year, also makes
Lipitor for cholesterol control. Last month, Pfizer and  Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  were sued in an antitrust case in New York
alleging the drugmakers engaged in an anti-competitive scheme to
delay generic Lipitor into the market.  Seema Kumar, a  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  spokeswoman, couldn’t
immediately comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Pfizer v. McNeil-PPC, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  WIPO Says PCT Patent Filings Up, With ZTE Corp. in the Lead  International patent filings under a treaty administered by
a United Nations agency increased 10.7 percent over the previous
year, the World Intellectual Property Organization said in a
 statement  yesterday.  A record 181,900 applications were filed in 2011, WIPO
said.  China ,  Japan  and the U.S. accounted for 82 percent of the
increase in filings. Applications are filed under the Patent
Cooperation Treaty, which facilitates the process of seeking
patent protection in multiple countries.  ZTE Corp. (000063) , a Chinese maker of video-conferencing systems,
was the leading filer, followed, in order, by  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,
Huawei Technologies Co.,  Sharp Corp. (6753)  and  Robert Bosch GmbH (RBOS) .
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  was the leading U.S.-based applicant.  The University of  California  and Massachusetts Institute of
Technology were among the top 100 filers, according to WIPO
data.  Digital communications technology accounted for 7.1 percent
of the published applications, followed by electronic machinery,
medical technology and computer technology.  While many countries were the source of hundreds or
thousands of applications, others filed very few or even no
applications, including Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, North Korea,
Jordan and Myanmar.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Australia Said to Face WTO Complaint Over Ban on Tobacco Logos  Australia  may face a complaint at the World Trade
Organization over its decision to ban trademarks and logos on
tobacco products, according to two people with direct knowledge
of the matter.  The complaint, which says the plain-packaging law violates
global intellectual-property rules, will probably be lodged with
the Geneva-based trade arbiter this month, as soon as this week,
said one person.  Australia is the first country to require identical
cigarette packaging. As of Dec. 1, 2012, cigarettes there will
have to be sold in dark brown packets, with no company logos or
images and the same font for all brands.  Imperial Tobacco Group
Plc (IMP) ,  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are
among companies that have challenged the law, which Australia is
extending to include cigars and loose-leaf tobacco products.  The law violates “several provisions” of agreements
protecting intellectual-property rights,  Ukraine  said at a Feb.
28 WTO meeting on the matter  Countries including Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican
Republic, El Salvador, Honduras,  Indonesia , Jordan,  Mexico ,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Turkey, Zambia and Zimbabwe also say the
Australian ban breaks trade rules. They have challenged
Australia’s scientific evidence and said the law will
unnecessarily restrict commerce because the country’s public-
health goal can be met by other means.  The missions of Ukraine, Zimbabwe, Mexico, Indonesia and
Nigeria in Geneva didn’t return calls or declined to comment.  Australia said at the Feb. 28 WTO meeting that it had
“comprehensively responded to all the claims made by the
Dominican Republic and others.”  The rule is “not anti-trade, it’s anti-cancer,”
Australian Trade Minister Craig Emerson said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday in Canberra. “It’s in the public-health
interests of the Australian people and the Gillard government
will never give up on Australia’s sovereign right to look after
the health of its people.”  The World Health Organization’s Framework Convention on
Tobacco Control, the first international treaty aimed at cutting
tobacco use, includes provisions on non-pricing measures to
lower demand, including regulations on packaging and labeling.  While the treaty doesn’t specifically address the use of
trademarked brands or logos, it requires signatories to ensure
that packaging and labeling don’t promote a tobacco product by
“any means that are false, misleading, deceptive or likely to
create an erroneous impression about its characteristics, health
effects, hazards or emissions.”  WHO Director-General Margaret Chan said on Nov. 23 that
major tobacco companies were harassing governments including
Australia, Norway and Uruguay in a bid to overturn cigarette
package-labeling rules.  The European Union is also considering plain packaging for
tobacco products.  EU to Decide on Future of Google Antitrust Probe Next Month  European Union regulators must decide next month on the
future of their antitrust probe into  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the region’s
competition commissioner said.  Joaquin Almunia  said investigators still must define their
objections and clarify concerns over the world’s largest search
engine. Last year he said that the probe focused on whether the
company is a gate keeper to the Internet that can influence
users’ behavior.  “Next month I will have to decide how to continue this
investigation,” Almunia said in an interview with Bloomberg HT
television. “First we have to define our objections. We need to
clarify” the concerns “after a year-and-a-half of complex
investigation. And we will communicate these to Google and we’ll
see what happens.”  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
growing pressure from global antitrust agencies probing whether
the company is thwarting competition in the market for Web
searches. While Microsoft Corp. and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have
about a quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost
95 percent of the traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog
post last year, citing data from regulators.  The EU is investigating claims Google discriminated against
other services in its search results and stopped some websites
from accepting rival ads. Microsoft and shopping-comparison site
Foundem are among companies that asked for a review of Google’s
actions.  Investigators should report to Almunia at the end of March
or the beginning of April on the status of the “very difficult
and complex investigation,” he said.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said the
company continues “to work closely and cooperatively with the
European commission to explain how our business works.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  U.S. Files Formal Request With New Zealand to Extradite Dotcom  The U.S. government has formally asked  New Zealand  to
extradite Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom, who was indicted in
 Virginia  on charges of involvement in the country’s biggest
copyright infringement conspiracy.  The extradition papers for Dotcom; Finn Batato, the chief
marketing officer at Megaupload; Mathias Ortmann, co-founder and
director of the file-sharing website; and Bram van der Kolk, who
oversaw programming at the website, were received at the North
Shore District Court near Auckland on March 2, said Magila
Annandale, a New Zealand Ministry of Justice spokeswoman.  Dotcom ran a “Mega Conspiracy,” U.S. prosecutors said in
a Feb. 17 revised indictment filed in a court in Alexandria,
Virginia, accusing him of generating more than $175 million in
criminal proceeds from the exchange of pirated film, music, book
and software files. He faces as long as 20 years in prison for
each of the racketeering and money-laundering charges in the
indictment.  The U.S. extradition papers weren’t immediately available
from the North Shore District Court. A judge has to approve
requests from people not involved in the case for access to
files after receiving a written application and obtaining views
of all parties in the matter, Annandale said in an e-mail
yesterday.  Dotcom, 38, was also charged in the U.S. with five counts
of criminal copyright infringement and five counts of wire
fraud. The defendant, who legally changed his family name from
Schmitz, has denied any criminal misconduct.  He was released from jail on Feb. 22 over objections from
the U.S., after Judge N.R. Dawson ruled he wasn’t a flight risk.
Dotcom is restricted to his rented $18 million mansion and
subject to electronic monitoring, according to the bail
conditions.  An extradition hearing has been scheduled for Aug. 20.  For copyright news, click here.  IP Talk  China Proposes Certifying Professionals as Lawyers, Xinhua Says  China’s State Council is seeking public feedback on a
proposed law that will allow some professionals to apply to
become lawyers, Xinhua News Agency said, citing the Cabinet’s
Legislative Affairs Office.  Professionals with bachelor’s degrees and at least 15
years’ experience in international trade,  intellectual property 
rights, finance, environmental protection, high technology,
journalism or medical accidents will be eligible under the
proposed law, the official news service reported.  In 1980, Chinese government regulations defined lawyers as
“state legal workers,” and were regarded as civil servants
working in legal advisory officers.  It took another 15 years for understanding of the legal
profession to evolve to the point at which a 1996 Chinese law
defined them as “professionals providing legal service to
society,” according to a 2003 doctoral dissertation by
 Professor Ethan Michelson , a social scientist at the University
of Indiana. By the end of 2002, Beijing had no more state-owned
law offices, Michelson said in his dissertation.  In an  essay  published in 2010 by the Brookings Institution,
Michelson noted that the legal profession has grown
dramatically, from only a few thousand in 1979 to almost 150,000
by 2007.  In a survey he conducted in 2009, whose results are
published in the essay, Michelson said of the more than 2,600
who responded, 9 percent reported incomes above $73,000, with
five reporting annual incomes in excess of $1.5 million.  Some of the lawyers who responded to his survey had only
junior-college degrees, although most had at least an
undergraduate degree. Their incomes were relative to the amount
of education they received.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 