-- Philippine Bonds Advance on Slower Inflation; Peso Declines
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-03-06T08:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/philippine-bonds-rally-on-slower-inflation-peso-little-changed.html
Philippine seven-year bonds rose,
snapping a two-day loss, as the government reported the slowest
inflation since September 2009.  Consumer prices advanced 2.7 percent in February from a
year earlier, compared with the 3.2 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey, official data showed today. The outlook for
inflation remains manageable, allowing the central bank to be
supportive of economic growth, Governor Amando Tetangco said in
a speech in  Manila  today. The monetary authority is targeting
consumer-price gains of 3 percent to 5 percent this year.  “Inflation is below the lower end of the target,” said
Joey Cuyegkeng, an economist at ING Groep NV in Manila. “It
provides the central bank leeway on monetary policy. The
likelihood of a rate cut increases.”  The yield on the government’s 7.875 percent bonds due
February 2019 dropped eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 4.77 percent, according to noon fixing prices from the
Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp. The peso fell 0.2 percent to
42.963 per dollar at the close in Manila, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas cut  interest rates  for a second
time this year on March 1 to shore up growth. Policy makers
reduced the rate on overnight deposits by 25 basis points to 4
percent.  The Philippine economy will accelerate this year as looser
monetary policy fosters growth and government spending gives
“welcome support,” the  International Monetary Fund  said in an
annual report released today. The IMF forecast that gross
domestic product will increase by 4.2 percent this year, after
climbing 3.7 percent in 2011, and that inflation should stay
within the central bank’s targeted range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  