-- Poland Will Probably Hold Rates at Three-Year High on Above-Goal Inflation
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2012-03-07T08:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/polish-central-bank-will-probably-leave-rates-unchanged-for-ninth-month.html
Poland ’s central bank will probably
refrain from cutting interest rates and leave borrowing costs
unchanged as the economy grows six times faster than the euro-
region average and inflation holds above target.  The Narodowy Bank Polski will leave the  benchmark seven-day
interest rate  for a ninth month at 4.5 percent, the highest
since January 2009, at a meeting today, according to all 36
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank will announce its
decision after 12 p.m. in Warsaw with a news conference to
follow at 4 p.m., where a guideline for an updated economic
outlook will also be released.  “It’s quite clear that inflation staying much above the
target for a number of months already creates some internal
pressure within the Monetary Policy Council, which does not feel
comfortable with a high growth plus high inflation
environment,”  Maciej Reluga , chief economist at Bank Zachodni
WBK, said in a report.  Poland’s main interest rate is at a three-year high as
inflation has stayed above the 3.5 percent upper limit of the
central bank’s target range since December 2010. Rates are now
at an appropriate level and any change will hinge on the central
bank’s new inflation forecast,  Jerzy Hausner  of the Monetary
Policy Council said Feb. 28. Consumer prices grew 4.1 percent in
January from the same month a year earlier.  Policy makers in the  Czech Republic  and  Hungary  left rates
unchanged last month amid a temporary spike in inflation.  “The inflation path in the March projection will be the
key for interest rates in the coming period,” said Wiktor
Wojciechowski, chief economist at Invest Bank in Warsaw. Rates
will hold steady until the end of the year, he said.  Economic Growth  Poland’s economy expanded 4.3 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, topping the 4.1 percent median forecast of
27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, the statistics office said
March 1. Growth was boosted by a 10.3 percent jump in
investment, fueled by EU subsidies spent on roads, bridges and
farm modernization. Strong growth and high inflation may trigger
an  interest rate  increase, central bankers said in recent weeks.  “The new GDP projection will be probably lowered on a
weaker economy in the euro region, while inflation will be
probably seen higher,”  Piotr Kalisz , chief economist at
Citigroup Inc.’s Polish unit Bank C Handlowy SA in Warsaw, said
in a report.  ‘Relatively Fast’  The central bank is “more likely to keep rates unchanged
or raise them” than cut borrowing costs, Monetary Policy
Council member Anna Zielinska-Glebocka told private broadcaster
TVN CNBC on March 1. Most council members said rate increases
can’t be ruled out if Poland sustains “relatively fast”
economic growth and an “elevated” inflation rate, according to
the minutes of the January rate meeting published on Feb. 23.  Six-month forward-rate agreements, used to bet on future
interest-rate levels, traded six basis points below the Warsaw
interbank offered rate yesterday, the smallest gap in three
weeks, suggesting investors expect the central bank to leave
rates unchanged in the coming months.  The zloty, up 8.6 percent against the euro this year, is
still 9.1 percent weaker against the euro than in April 2010,
when it hit 3.83, its highest since the global financial crisis.
The zloty slump last year helped Polish exporters and boosted
prices of imported goods boosting inflation together with
commodities prices.  The zloty traded at 4.1612 per euro at 9:44 a.m. in Warsaw,
up from 4.1676 late yesterday.  Upward Revision  Governor  Marek Belka  said March 2 the statistics office’s
2011 full-year economic growth estimate of 4.3 percent “is
probably going to be revised up somewhat,” and while a slowdown
should be expected this year, the economy will still expand at
least 3 percent.  The government has stuck to its 2012 GDP growth target of
2.5 percent even as JP Morgan and PKO Bank Polski recently both
raised theirs to 3 percent. The European Commission last month
kept its forecast for Poland’s economy to expand 2.5 percent
this year, the fastest growth in the 27-member bloc.  “This means the commission shares the view that our
economy is resistant to external shocks,” Marek Rozkrut,
director of the Finance Ministry’s Analysis and Statistical
Department in Warsaw ,said in a March 2 interview. “The
indicators point to the start of a recovery in the euro area,
even if we have to wait for it until the second half of the
year. In this scenario, Poland would weather the EU slowdown
relatively easily.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  