-- Polycom Falls as Top Sales Executives Leave: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-03-06T21:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/polycom-falls-as-top-sales-executives-leave-san-francisco-mover.html
Polycom Inc., (PLCM)  a maker of
videoconferencing equipment, declined 9.6 percent, the most
since October, after an analyst said at least two top sales
executives have left the company.  Shares of the Pleasanton, California-based company dropped
to $18.05 at the close in New York. The stock had gained 23
percent this year before today.  Jason Noah Ader, an analyst at William Blair & Co. in
 Boston , wrote in a note today that the departures include George
Lillig, Polycom’s vice president of U.S. government, educational
and medical sales. The loss of Lillig and other key sales
personnel may mean that the company’s effort to overhaul its
U.S. sales organization, begun last year, may take longer than
management expected, Ader said.  “They didn’t want to see these guys go,” Ader said in an
interview. “These were seasoned guys, and they have to stop the
bleeding in the U.S.”  Lillig is now employed by a partner of Polycom, not a
competitor, said Laura Graves, vice president for  investor
relations .  “We have anticipated changes in some areas of sales and
there is a road map and succession plan in place,” Graves said
in an interview.  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Miller  told investors in
January the company was working on a “turnaround” of sales in
the Americas, led by new hire David Ruggiero. Polycom added 24
account managers and sales engineers, and aligned the sales
pipeline with Microsoft Corp., International Business Machines
Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co.  “Management had told people that things were stabilizing
after the restructuring, and after these departures it’s clear
they’re going to take some time,” Ader said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  