-- POM Wonderful’s Prostate Ads Don’t Spur Need for FDA Review, Company Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-03-06T23:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/pom-wonderful-prostate-ads-don-t-spur-fda-review-company-says.html
POM Wonderful LLC doesn’t need U.S.
Food and Drug Administration approval for its pomegranate juice
and supplements because ads for the products don’t claim to
treat diseases, a lawyer for the company said at a Federal Trade
Commission hearing.  In some advertisements, the company legitimately cites
studies that show “encouraging” results for pomegranate juice
aiding people’s cardiovascular health, said Bert Fields, the
lawyer, in closing arguments at today’s hearing in  Washington .  “With harmless products like fruit juice, you don’t need”
the “gold standard” tests required for FDA approval, he said.  The hearing is over an FTC complaint alleging the company
doesn’t have scientific backing to make advertising claims that
its juice and supplements prevent or treat prostate cancer,
erectile dysfunction and  heart disease . Under U.S. law, the
company can’t claim the products cure or treat diseases without
testing.  The advertising goes too far, said Heather Hippsley, an FTC
attorney. The advertising implies the products “have a very
special magic elixir,” she said.  The FTC is requesting clinical trials, similar to what’s
required for approval of medications.  In the case, which began last year, the FTC is urging
Administrative Law Judge D. Michael Chappell to require the more
involved testing and FDA approval if POM Wonderful doesn’t drop
some of its ad claims. Those include one ad that shows a POM
juice bottle blasting off like a rocket and proclaiming, “I’m
off to save prostates.”  The case is a test of the FTC’s campaign to force food
companies to support their advertising with more scientific
findings. In 2010, the FTC pressured Nestle NA and the Dannon
Co. Inc., a U.S. unit of  Danone SA (BN) , to change ads for their
probiotic products. Probiotics are bacteria found in the gut
that may aid digestion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  