-- Portugal in Sights as Yields Fuel Bailout Talk
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-03-06T12:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/portugal-in-crosshairs-as-yields-fuel-bailout-talk-euro-credit.html
Portuguese bond yields are rising as
investors are busy putting cheap money from the  European Central
Bank  to work elsewhere.  The increase in 10-year  borrowing costs  by almost two
percentage points in the past two weeks is stoking concern among
investors that the nation will struggle to resume bond sales in
2013. Portugal has been unable to sell debt due in more than a
year since it was given a 78 billion-euro ($102.8 billion)
bailout in May 2011, following Greece and Ireland.  “The ECB’s cash provides liquidity, but not solvency,”
said  Stuart Thomson , who helps oversee the equivalent of $110
billion as a portfolio manager at Ignis Asset Management in
Glasgow. “If the perception is that a country is already
bankrupt, these liquidity measures won’t work. There is growing
concern that  Portugal  may need a second bailout.”  Portugal’s 10-year yield was at 13.83 percent at 12:07 p.m.
in London, up from 7.48 percent a year ago. The extra yield
investors demand to own the nation’s bonds rather than  Germany ’s
widened 1.1 percentage points to 12.04 percentage points since
the ECB announced its program of three-year loans to banks on
Dec. 8. Italy’s spread shrank 124 basis points to 3.2 percentage
point, and  Spain ’s narrowed 53 basis points to 3.26.  Portuguese bonds have returned 0.4 percent since the ECB
offered euro-area banks its first round of three-year loans on
Dec. 22. Investors have made 13 percent on Italian bonds, 11
percent on Irish securities, and 5.2 percent from Spanish debt,
indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch show.  Resuming Sales  Portugal’s government, which has been able to keep issuing
bills, plans to restart bond sales in September 2013, Prime
Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said Feb. 17. The  International
Monetary Fund  said yesterday the country should be able to
access the market next year as planned.  “That’s not going to be possible,” said Pavan Wadhwa,
global head of interest-rate strategy at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in
London. “The Portuguese 10-year yield is near 15 percent. No
one goes to the market at that level. Once your yields go above
8 percent, there’s no turning back.”  While the country’s 10-year yields surged to a euro-era
record 18.29 percent on Jan. 31, borrowing costs have declined
at the country’s bill sales. Portugal sold 8 billion euros of
bills this year, surpassing the indicative amount of 6.5 billion
euros for the first quarter that the government announced on
Dec. 29. The nation has also issued bills with longer maturities
than initially proposed.  Forced Losses  The demand for bills and lack of interest in bonds suggests
some investors are concerned they may be forced to take losses
from their holdings of longer-maturity securities, JPMorgan’s
Wadwa said.  Portugal’s junk ranking at  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings has sapped the attraction of
its debt compared to those of its neighbors. Its bonds are Ba3
at Moody’s, three steps below investment grade, and BB at S&P,
the second-highest junk ranking.  Italian and Spanish bonds have rallied since December amid
speculation banks are using funds borrowed from the ECB to buy
them. Italian  10-year yields  dropped below 5 percent last week
for the first time since August. Spanish 10-year  yields  have
slid 31 basis points since the ECB held its first longer-term
refinancing operation on Dec 22.  The ECB has lent euro-area banks more than 1 trillion euros
at an interest rate of 1 percent in its two LTROs, providing 800
financial institutions with 529.5 billion euros on Feb. 29,
after 523 banks borrowed 489 billion euros on Dec. 22.  Second Bailout?  “There is concern that a Greece-style bond restructuring
will be required if Portugal were to take the second bailout,”
said Wadhwa at JPMorgan. “Our baseline scenario is that they
will need a second bailout. Bills are short-term securities used
mostly for cash management and are likely to be excluded from
debt restructuring.”  European leaders said in December that  Greece ’s situation
was “exceptional and unique” and they don’t envisage
bondholder losses in other nations that seek assistance.  “I don’t see any kind of possibility that my government
could in a few years ask to restructure Portuguese debt,”
Passos Coelho said yesterday in an interview.  Unlike Greece, Portugal is on track with its austerity
measures. The nation should achieve its 2012 deficit target
based on current forecasts, the International Monetary Fund said
in a joint statement with the European Commission and ECB on Feb
28. The country also narrowed the shortfall to about 4 percent
of gross domestic product in 2011 from 9.8 percent in 2010.  Unfavorable Math  Yet with the economy shrinking for the  fifth quarter  and
 unemployment  climbing to 14 percent, Ignis’s Thomson said the
country will still struggle to avoid another rescue package.  “Portugal has made progress, but the math still works
against it,” he said. “The country has lower debt-to-GDP ratio
than Greece. Its population is more compliant, and the
government is working so hard. But the amount of fiscal
austerity they have to do led to a contraction in GDP, and that
makes it more difficult to reduce the  budget deficit .”  Portugal’s  economy  will contract 3.3 percent this year, the
European Commission predicted on Feb. 23. That’s a greater
decline than estimated in November, when the Commission forecast
a 3 percent drop.  S&P’s decision on Jan. 13 to cut Portugal’s credit rating
to junk means the nation’s debt can no longer be held by some
index-tracking funds. The elevated costs of credit-default swaps
on Portuguese bonds signal a 64 percent chance the country will
default within five years.  “The fact that Portugal remains under pressure is perhaps a
warning that the ECB’s long-term loans are just a liquidity
plaster, and not a solution,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior
fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in  London .
“As long as the systemic weakness, and that’s fiscal disunity,
is yet to be addressed, countries will remain vulnerable to
contagion of one sort or another.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  