-- PricewaterhouseCoopers Chairman Says U.S. Economy Recovering
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-03-06T13:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/pricewaterhousecoopers-chairman-says-u-s-economy-recovering.html
Dennis M. Nally, chairman of
PricewaterhouseCoopers International Ltd., said the U.S. economy
is recovering and corporate investment and hiring will increase
when there is clarity on government plans to tackle deficits. He
spoke in an interview in Dubai on March 5.  On the economy:  “The American economy is doing better than most would say
it is because typically what a lot of people try to focus on
right now is some of the headline issues, the unemployment
level, the deficit, the  government spending . Those are real
issues, no question about it. But when you look at corporate
profits, you look at corporate liquidity, when you look at how
business is generally doing, it’s not bad, it’s fairly positive
and so I think the economy is clearly headed in the right
direction. Most would say, growth probably GDP growth would be
anywhere between 2.8 and 3.5 percent this year.  ‘‘There is this cautionary mindset that exists right now,
and I think most CEOs want to see clarity around some of these
big issues. You look at the deficit. There are two ways to deal
with it right, you cut expenses or you raise revenue. As long as
there is no clarity to what is going to be proposed most
companies are going to continue to operate in a very
conservative, cautionary way, not be aggressive on investments,
not be aggressive on hiring because they want to see exactly how
these policies are going to be formulated and how that is going
to affect the company.”  On private investments:  “What you have actually seen in the U.S. is everyone loves
to talk about the large amounts of federal debt and really what
you have seen is the aggregate amount of debt in the  U.S.
economy  is about the same today than what it was 18 months ago
or two years ago. And all you have done is you have shifted debt
from the individuals, the private sector, to the government. The
stimulus is slowly coming to an end and the real big next step
has to be geared toward bringing some clarity to some of these
big issues that we were talking about. And once that happens
then I think you do see the private sector having the capacity
to continue to invest, continue to add jobs where appropriate.
But they are not going to do so until they get this kind of
clarity coming on the fiscal policy stand point.  On  household debt :  ‘‘What most households have done is in effect deleverage
themselves. That has come about either through real estate
mortgage issues, whether it is consumer debt etc. You have just
seen a significant shift in the debt levels of the private
sector that has then been picked up by the government sector
through the stimulus programs that they have put in place. Debt
as a percentage of GDP of the U.S. economy, the position hasn’t
changed at all, it’s just that who owns the debt has changed in
a very significant way. It’s probably a less risky position
today than what it was two years ago when the private sector was
owning the debt, when you had the potential for all the defaults
and all those kind of things. At least with the federal
government owning the debt, most people would say you are not
going to see a default.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  