-- Proview Scrap Piles Rise While Waiting on Apple Cash Infusion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-06T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/proview-scrap-piles-rise-while-waiting-on-apple-cash-infusion.html
As workers stream from factories in
Shatou Jiao Free Trade Zone, none emerge from Proview Technology
(Shenzhen) Co.’s green-glass and white-tile plant.  A walk round back tells the reason. The mothballed south
China factory of what was once the world’s fourth-biggest maker
of computer monitors is being dismantled for scrap.  Almost a year and a half since Proview Shenzhen shut after
missing payments to suppliers and banks, the company teeters on
bankruptcy. Founder Rowell Yang and creditors led by  Bank of
China  Ltd. are now wringing out Proview’s last possession of
value: rights to the iPad trademark in China that  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
wants and may have to dip into its $98 billion cash pile to get.  “The creditors hope that Proview Shenzhen can be renewed
and restart production,” Roger Xie, an attorney for the
company, said in a March 2 interview at his office in downtown
Shenzhen. “Proview Shenzhen has two hopes. One is to transfer
or license the trademark. The other is for Apple to compensate
them and purchase the trademark to give Proview Shenzhen the
ability to clear its debts.”  Apple last week appealed a Shenzhen court ruling that its
2009 purchase of the iPad trademark in China from a Taiwan
sister company of Proview was invalid. Consumers in  China 
associate the iPad name with Apple’s tablet, and it would be
unfair to give Proview the value of that trademark which Apple
created, the Cupertino, California-based company told the Higher
People’s Court of Guangdong.  Apple may unveil a new iPad tablet in the U.S. today.  Proview, which began selling its own product called the
iPAD in 2000, shuttered its Shenzhen factory in November 2010.
In contrast with the building’s facade, shattered windows scar
the back, and rubbish is strewn on the yard.  Scrap Piles  During a March 2 visit, workers wearing blue dust-masks
appeared from time to time to augment two towering piles of
scrap in what used to be a loading bay. Metal sheets, pipes and
tubes protruded from the heaps.  “It’s true,” said Yang, when asked whether the factory
was being gutted, in a March 5 telephone interview. “The Banks
have taken over the assets, and can sell them.”  Proview peaked at 10 percent of the global monitor market
in 2006, when they ranked No. 4, said Alberto Moel, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “They could have at that point sustained themselves but
they missed the window,” Moel said. “Competitors ramped
production and took share. They blew up, but for a while, they
actually were somebody.”  Community Pillar  Proview’s plant is a half-hour car ride due east of Xie’s
office, along an expressway that tunnels through rolling green
hills. Exiting the highway, a winding road curves down the
hillside, around a hairpin turn before emerging into the heart
of Yantian district, across the border from  Hong Kong .  Yantian was formally established in 1998, and is home to
more than 200,000 people and a deep-water port, as well as the
Shatou Jiao Free Trade Zone, according to the local government’s
website.  Within four blocks of entering the district, visitors pass
the Yantian People’s Court, where dozens of creditors sued
Proview. Xie declines to give the exact number, saying only it
was “20, 30, 50” or more. Those cases ultimately led to the
Yantian court-monitored arbitration that put an eight-bank group
in control of Proview Shenzhen’s assets from March 2009.  At the courthouse, two guards at the door ask numerous
times “Are you with Apple?” And again, even after a
government-issued press card is produced.  Court Documents  After finally gaining entry, an official who refused to
identify himself during two hours of negotiations for access to
court documents, said that records of suits involving Proview
and its creditors are not available to the public.  Xie also declined to provide the documents.  Proview is well regarded in the community as one of its
best-known exporters, according to Yang. The willingness of
creditors to allow the company to reorganize its debt rather
than push it into bankruptcy was because of intervention by the
Shenzhen municipal government, which asked the banks to help in
February 2009, he said.  Proview’s special place can be seen on every street. While
there are many businesses in the trade zone, including Ritech
Technology, Spectrum Quality Toys and Europtronic, Proview is
the only one identified on tourist information maps posted by
the district government along its tree-lined streets.  Proview first set up a factory there in 1992, moving into
its current premises in 1998, a year after the company’s Hong
Kong initial public offering, share sale documents show.
Relative newcomer Apple opened its first store in China in 2008.
Liu Zixian, a former director of the Shatou Jiao zone, was
appointed to the board of Proview in 2004,  filings  show.  Plans to Restart  The Shenzhen plant was one of four factories of Hong Kong-
listed  Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334)  A lighting and audio
products unit in Wuhan is the only one now operating, Yang said.  “We are trying to restructure and get an injection of
capital,” Yang said. “We are working with an investor on
different plans, including both with a settlement payment, and
with no settlement payment. It’s very complicated, but we still
hope to restart production.”  The Higher People’s Court of Guangdong is to give its
judgment on Apple’s appeal within three months.  “If somehow for whatever reason the iPad case settles in
their favor and they have some money to invest, the last thing
I’d invest it in is the business they were in,” said
Bernstein’s Moel. “The industry has moved on without them. It’s
more concentrated, less profitable and more competitive.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  