-- Qualcomm to Start $4 Billion Stock Buyback, Boost Dividend
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-03-06T14:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/qualcomm-to-buy-back-as-much-as-4-billion-of-its-shares-boosts-dividend.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the world’s biggest
maker of mobile-phone chips, said it plans to buy back as much
as $4 billion of shares and raise its dividend by 16 percent to
return cash to shareholders as earnings increase.  The quarterly cash dividend will expand to 25 cents from
21.5 cents, San Diego-based Qualcomm said today in a statement.
The buyback authorization replaces a $3 billion program, which
had $948 million of repurchase authority remaining.  Last month, Qualcomm increased sales and profit targets for
this year on rising demand for smartphones, led by strength in
India and  China . Qualcomm said Feb. 1 that smartphone demand is
boosting chip sales and licensing income. The company owns code
division multiple access, or CDMA, technology and can levy
royalties on all so-called third-generation phones and networks,
providing most of its profit. It is also the largest seller of
chips that connect phones to mobile networks.  “They’ve been a little more hesitant to return large
amounts of cash to shareholders, primarily because lots of it is
offshore,” Stacy Rasgon, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst
in  New York  with an “outperform” rating on the stock, said in
a phone interview. “It’s a high-quality problem -- they
generate so much cash that they don’t know what to do with it.”  Qualcomm was unchanged at $62.11 at 9:32 a.m. New York
time. Before today, the  stock  had risen 14 percent this year.  IPhone Demand  Qualcomm had about $22 billion of cash at the end of last
quarter, with about $6 billion held in the U.S., Chief Financial
Officer William Keitel said Feb. 1. The company prefers to
retain $5 billion domestically as an “appropriate level of
liquidity,” Keitel said then.  By the end of 2011, one out of every three mobile phones
shipped worldwide was a smartphone, and global shipments of the
devices surged 55 percent to 158 million units in the fourth
quarter, led by demand for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 4S, according to
research firm IDC.  Smartphone demand is increasing as the devices become more
affordable, encouraging users to upgrade to handsets on which
they can browse the Web and send e-mail. Existing users are also
trading up to more powerful smartphones such as the iPhone 4S,
which went on sale in October. Apple sold 37 million iPhones
last quarter, helping the Cupertino, California-based company to
double its profit in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  