-- TransCanada to Seek Approval for Building Keystone in Pieces
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-03-06T20:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/transcanada-to-seek-approval-for-building-keystone-in-pieces-2-.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  plans to submit
within weeks a new permit application for its $7.6 billion
Keystone XL oil pipeline that won’t include either a new route
through Nebraska or a segment from Oklahoma to the U.S. Gulf
Coast.  The U.S. State Department, which rejected a proposal in
January over concerns about the pipeline’s path through
environmentally sensitive parts of Nebraska, told the Calgary-
based company that it may make a decision on a new application
by March 2013, according to TransCanada President of Energy and
Oil Pipelines Alex Pourbaix.  The company plans to begin construction by June on a
pipeline from Cushing, Oklahoma, to Texas refineries that was
originally part of the Keystone XL proposal, Pourbaix said in an
interview at CERAWeek, a Houston conference held by IHS
Cambridge Energy Research Associates. That segment may be
completed in the second half of next year, he said.  “This is the most exhaustively reviewed pipeline in the
history of the  United States (UNG) ,” Pourbaix said. “All that work
has been done over the past two or three years. It would be
very, very surprising to us if the vast majority of that record
was not adopted verbatim into the new permit.”  The application will be for a pipeline to transport as much
as 830,000 barrels a day of oil-sands crude from Hardisty,
 Alberta  to Steele City, Nebraska, where it would connect to an
existing line from Nebraska to Oklahoma and the planned new
line. That will let the company complete the pipeline in
segments, Pourbaix said.  Land Secured  TransCanada has secured more than 99 percent of the land
needed to build the  Oklahoma  to Texas segment of its pipeline,
and only 14 landowners have not settled, Pourbaix said.  TransCanada has not “bullied” landowners along the route,
he said. The company far exceeds the industry standard for
avoiding the use of eminent domain in building its pipelines, he
said. TransCanada has used eminent domain in less than 2 percent
of cases compared to an industry average of 10 percent, he said.  “We have about 40,000 landowners and a 60-year track
record of dealing with those landowners,” Pourbaix said. “If
we ever heard any of our land people bullied or mistreated a
landowner, that would be the last day they worked for
TransCanada.”  TransCanada is working with  Nebraska  to find a new path
through the state that avoids the Sand Hills region, a marshy,
dune-like expanse where the water table from a giant aquifer
reaches the surface. The company will update its application
with a new Nebraska route in the fall, Pourbaix said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  