-- Ravaged by Gestapo, Czech Home Opens as Modernist Jewel
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-03-06T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/ravaged-by-the-gestapo-red-army-czech-villa-reopens-as-modernist-jewel.html
The Tugendhat villa is a family home
to dream of, spacious and harmonious. Panorama windows and a
wide terrace overlook a sloping garden and beyond, the castle
and spires of the Czech city of Brno.  Its history reflects the tumult of the 20th century. The
Jewish family who commissioned it from the pioneering architect
Ludwig Mies van der Rohe was forced to flee Brno before World
War II. The house was occupied by the Gestapo and then ravaged
by Soviet troops. It became a dance school, a hospital for
children with spine deformities, then a state guesthouse,
hosting negotiations over the breakup of  Czechoslovakia  in 1992.  Mies van der Rohe completed the house in 1930, the year he
became the last director of the Bauhaus school of design. It had
mod cons well in advance of its time: Electric windows whose
panes glide silently into place; a coal heating system and air-
conditioning; even a light-sensitive security system.  After decades of neglect, the  Unesco  world heritage site
has been restored to its original state at a cost of 176.3
million Czech crowns ($9.2 million), funded by the Czech
government. It opens to the public from today, accessible by a
pre-booked tour.  Money No Object  Money was no object for the young couple who commissioned
the house, Greta and Fritz Tugendhat. Greta came from a family
of textile entrepreneurs who were among Brno’s wealthiest
residents, and her parents gave her the plot of land behind
their own home and paid for the villa’s construction.  “I truly longed for a modern spacious house with clear and
simple shapes,” Greta Tugendhat said later. “My husband was
horrified by the idea of having a house full of objects and
cloths as he had known since childhood.”  A lover of art and philosophy, Greta had lived in  Germany 
and was familiar with the work of Mies van der Rohe. Her
daughter Daniela Hammer-Tugendhat, a professor of art history in
Vienna, described in an interview at the opening how the
cooperation with the architect came about.  “My parents went to Berlin and met Mies and were so
enthusiastic about him personally,” she said. “He showed them
five sketches, now very famous, that were far more avant-garde
than anything he had built so far. They gave him the contract
and said ‘we want a small house with five rooms.’”  Small it isn’t. On three floors, the living space, without
including kitchens, is 360 square meters (3,875 square feet). It
ended up costing as much as 30 average family houses.  Onyx, Ebony  Described by  Unesco  as a “masterpiece of the Modern
Movement,” the villa incorporates a wall of onyx from the Atlas
Mountains that shines orange in the sunset, an Italian
travertine spiral staircase and Makassar ebony panels from
 Indonesia . The panels disappeared in World War II, and were
salvaged decades later from a building that had served as the
Gestapo’s Brno headquarters.  The young Tugendhats’ avant-garde taste gave Mies van der
Rohe an opportunity to test his ideas. The house is supported by
steel columns whose shiny plating makes them look less solidly
load-bearing than they are. The rooms connect fluidly, with
curving lines as well as right angles, creating an airy harmony.  Exterior and interior merge, thanks to a winter garden
filled with plants and the vast windows. When it snowed, the
Tugendhat children would sled down the incline to their
grandparents’ villa.  Ivory Lino  Mies van der Rohe devoted attention to detail, designing
the door handles, curtains, lighting and some of the furniture.
The chrome tubular “Brno” and “Tugendhat” chairs look modern
for good reason: They were manufactured for decades after the
house was built, well into the late 20th century.  The architect put ivory linoleum on the floors through the
corridors and some rooms, something only a man who doesn’t have
to worry about the practicalities of washing floors would do.  “It was particularly susceptible to dirt and required a
great deal of care,” Greta said later. No kidding. These days,
visitors are given plastic bags to wear over their shoes.  The Tugendhats fled Brno in 1938, before the outbreak of
World War II and the Nazi occupation. The family’s pleas for
restoration went unanswered for decades, Hammer-Tugendhat said.  “We were here again and again in the 1980s, talking to
different mayors with different groups, and nothing ever came of
it,” Hammer-Tugendhat said. “We were despairing. Every time we
came to see it, you could see how the house was deteriorating.  “So it’s a kind of miracle that it has now happened and
looks so good,” she said. “If only my mother were here to see
it.”  For more information and to book tours, go to
 http://www.tugendhat.eu/en/villa-tugendhat.html   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Brno,  Czech Republic , at
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 