-- RBA’s Lowe Says Intervention Bar ‘Quite High’ on Strong Australian Dollar
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-06T23:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/rba-needs-to-monitor-australian-dollar-for-possible-overshoot-lowe-says.html
The Australian central bank’s
threshold for intervening to temper gains in the local dollar is
“quite high” as officials monitor the impact of a stronger
currency on the labor market, Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said.  “It’s difficult to make a strong case that the exchange
rate is fundamentally misaligned,” Lowe said in response to a
question from the audience after a speech today in Sydney,
citing the nation’s solid economy. “That makes the hurdle for
intervention quite high.”  The Australian dollar, the best performer in the past six
months among Group of 10 currencies, has remained elevated as
the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  maintains the highest benchmark
rate of major developed economies and a once-in-a-century mining
investment boom draws investors. Lowe said the local dollar’s
gains reflect the nation’s very high terms of trade, a measure
of export prices relative to import prices.  “It is possible for exchange rates to overshoot,” Lowe
said in his prepared remarks. “While the evidence of the past
30 years is that movements in the exchange rate have been an
important stabilizing force for the Australian economy, the
unusual nature of the current forces means that we need to watch
things closely.”  The currency was little changed at $1.0550 at 10:15 a.m.
today in Sydney, near a six-week low against the dollar. The so-
called Aussie fell as low as $1.0525 yesterday, its weakest
level since Jan. 26.  The RBA yesterday held its benchmark rate at 4.25 percent
for a second month, while noting it has scope to lower borrowing
costs as  Europe  remains a potential source of shocks “for some
time yet.”  ‘Contractionary Effect’  A persistent increase in the unemployment rate “might
suggest that the contractionary effect of the high exchange rate
was more than offsetting the expansionary effect of the
investment boom and the terms of trade,” Lowe told the
Australian Industry Group. “If this were to turn out to be the
case, monetary policy would have the flexibility to respond
provided the inflation outlook remained benign.”  “On the evidence to date, something like the current
combination of exchange rates and interest rates appears to be
what is needed to maintain overall macroeconomic stability,”
Lowe told the AIG, whose members include manufacturers hurt by
the currency. “The high exchange rate and the high  interest
rates  relative to the rest of the world are both being driven by
the fact that Australia is a major beneficiary of the change in
world relative prices.”  China, India  Australia’s economy is propelled by a mining boom predicted
to last decades as the urbanization of hundreds of millions of
people in  China  and  India  drives demand for  iron ore , liquefied
natural gas and coal. The RBA’s decision to pause its benchmark
rate at 4.25 percent for a second meeting yesterday, after two
reductions late last year, reflects confidence domestic
employment will be supported by A$456 billion ($481 billion) of
resource projects to meet Chinese demand.  “Over the next few years, mining-sector investment will
reach new highs as a share of gross domestic product, and is
likely to account for around 40 percent of total business
investment,” Lowe said. “Structural change is also clearly
evident in the export numbers, with resources now accounting for
around 60 percent of total exports, up from 35 percent a decade
ago.”  Employment in Australia stalled last year as the currency’s
climb hurt non-resource companies and  house prices  slumped by a
record 4.8 percent.  ‘Little Choice’  “Inevitably, the high exchange rate means that the
manufacturing industry has little choice but to move up the
value-added chain in order to compete,” Lowe said.
“Realistically, Australia cannot hope to be a large-scale
producer of relatively standardized, plain-vanilla, manufactured
goods for the world market. But what we can be is a supplier of
manufactured goods that build on our comparative advantages.”  The job market has shown signs of revival this year as
employers added the most workers in 14 months in January and the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to 5.1 percent.  “I don’t think they sense that they have a real ability to
control the exchange rate,” said Greg Gibbs, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. “They
wouldn’t be confident of intervention having much impact. In
which case, he’s really saying, if it persists they’ll just have
to lower interest rates.”  European stocks declined yesterday, with the Stoxx Europe
600 Index dropping the most since November, as a report
confirmed a contraction in the euro-area economy and investors
weighed  Greece ’s chances of getting bondholders to accept a debt
swap.  “In Europe we’re going to see these two steps forward, one
step back,” Lowe said in response to an audience question. “I
think what we’ve seen last night is probably one step back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  