-- Treasuries Advance as Asian Stocks Decline, RBA Sees ‘Below-Trend’ Growth
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-03-06T08:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/treasuries-stay-lower-on-speculation-jobs-data-to-add-to-signs-of-recovery.html
Treasuries rose as Asian stocks fell
and  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens said he
sees “below-trend” world economic growth this year, spurring
demand for the relative safety of  government securities .  The  Federal Reserve  may buy as much as $4.25 billion of
 U.S. debt  due from March 2018 to February 2020 today, according
to the Fed Bank of New York  website . The central bank is in the
process of swapping $400 billion of shorter-maturity Treasuries
in its holdings with longer-term bonds to cap borrowing costs.
Ten-year rates have been within 21 basis points of 2 percent
since the start of November, after the central bank announced
the plan Sept. 21.  “Yields will maintain this low range,” said Masazumi Fukuoka, a senior dealer at the Singapore branch of Mitsubishi
UFJ Trust & Banking Corp., a unit of  Japan ’s largest publicly
traded lender. “In the short term, the economy will show some
strong figures, but it may not recover as people expect.”  Ten-year  yields  declined two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.99 percent at 8:12 a.m. London time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
security due February 2022 rose 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 3/32. The rate increased four basis points
yesterday.  The Stoxx Europe 600 index of shares fell 0.4 percent,
while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid for a second day,
dropping 1.2 percent. The  MSCI All Country World Index (MXWD)  slid for
a third day, the longest decline since January.  ‘Below-Trend’ Growth  The RBA held its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 4.25
percent at a policy meeting today. “Recent information is
consistent with the expectation that the world economy will grow
at a below-trend pace this year, but does not suggest that a
deep downturn is occurring,” Stevens said in his  statement .  Investor appetite for riskier assets waned after  China  cut
growth projections yesterday, Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank, a unit of  France ’s second-biggest bank, said in
a report today. China pared its annual economic growth target to
7.5 percent from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005.  U.S. economic growth will quicken to 2.2 percent in 2012
from 1.7 percent in 2011, Bloomberg surveys of analysts show.
The euro-area economy will shrink 0.4 percent this year, based
on the responses.  Bunds Versus Treasuries  Mitsubishi UFJ’s Fukuoka said he favors German bunds
because of the disparity of economic outlooks. German 10-year
bunds  yield  about 18 basis points less than same-maturity
Treasuries, the most since November based on closing levels.  Investors who are betting on faster U.S. economic growth
say an industry report and government figures this week will
show the  U.S. economy  added more than 200,000 jobs last month.  “It will be a gradual but steady pace of growth,” said
Kei Katayama, a bond manager at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which
has the equivalent of $60.8 billion and is part of Japan’s
second-largest brokerage. “Commodities, stocks and credit
products should outperform Treasuries.”  ADP Employer Services may say companies in the U.S. added
213,000 workers in February, versus 170,000 in January,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s data.  New Jobs  The Labor Department’s employment report on March 9 will
show employers added more than 200,000 jobs for a third month,
according to another Bloomberg survey.  The 10-year rate will advance to 2.53 percent by year-end,
according to predictions from banks and securities companies,
with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.
Daiwa SB’s Katayama predicts 3.5 percent.  Treasuries fell yesterday after an index of U.S. service
industries rose to the highest level in a year and as  Greece 
said it expected private creditors to accept losses on the
nation’s debt.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said yesterday he
opposes additional central bank purchases of securities and
urged market participants to get ready to become less dependent
on monetary easing.  Company bonds are outperforming U.S. government securities
this year. Treasuries have handed investors a 0.4 percent loss
this year as of yesterday, versus a 3.5 percent gain for the
corporate bond gauge, the least in seven months, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Stock Returns  The  MSCI All Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks returned 10
percent in the period, including reinvested dividends. The
 Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 commodities gained 9
percent.  Yields indicate investors cut bets on inflation over the
past week.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices during the life of the debt, narrowed to 2.21
percentage points from 2.27 percentage points on Feb. 28. The
average over the past five years is 2.03 percentage points.  Five-year inflation  swaps , which allow investors to
exchange fixed-interest rates for returns equivalent to the
 consumer price index , declined to 2.37 percent. The five-year
average is 2.11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 