-- Porsche’s Former CFO Haerter Is Among Three Charged With Refinancing Fraud
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   C h a d   T h o m a s
-- 2012-03-06T16:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/three-porsche-workers-charged-with-fraud-over-10-billion-euro-refinancing.html
Former  Porsche SE (PAH3)  Chief Financial
Officer Holger Haerter is one of three managers charged over
statements made to a bank when the holding company refinanced a
10 billion-euro ($13.2 billion) loan in 2009.  The men are accused of understating Porsche’s liquidity
needs by 1.4 billion euros if all purchase options the company
held on  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  (VOW3) shares had been exercised, Stuttgart
prosecutors said in an e-mailed statement today, without
disclosing any names. Haerter will fight the charges, his
attorney, Anne Wehnert, said in an e-mailed statement.  Along with the criminal investigation, investors in the
U.S. and Germany are suing Porsche, accusing the company of
misleading them about plans to take control of Volkswagen. A
planned combination of the companies was called off last year
because of legal uncertainties related to the litigation.  “The risk to the merger will increase because the normal
shareholder won’t want to pay too much and the funds will use
this to their advantage to seek a significantly higher
settlement,” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the
Center for Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-
Essen.  Investor Suits  The managers also withheld some information about put
options tied to VW shares that Porsche sold, the Stuttgart
prosecutors said today.  “An economy university professor specializing in options
trading confirmed after a thorough review of the facts, that the
prosecutors’ method regarding the alleged liquidity need isn’t
viable, so the statements given to the bank were correct,” said
Wehnert, Haerter’s attorney. The bank didn’t say it hadn’t been
adequately informed, she said.  Porsche  dropped  2.12 euros, or 4.4 percent, to 45.92 euros
at the close of trading today in  Frankfurt .  The charges today reflect “the position of the state
prosecutor,” Frank Gaube, a Porsche spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. “This is not a court ruling and until
there is a ruling there is a presumption of innocence.”  The bank mentioned by the prosecutors continues to be
involved in the company’s refinancing, Gaube said.  Short-Sale Surge  Investors claim Stuttgart, Germany-based Porsche misled
them by denying through much of 2008 intentions to acquire VW.
Porsche said in October of that year it controlled most of VW’s
common stock, causing the shares to surge as short-sellers raced
to cover their positions.  There are four suits pending at a court in Braunschweig,
 Germany , with plaintiffs seeking a total of more than 2 billion
euros in damages. Porsche has denied the allegations.  Porsche SE is the publicly traded holding company that has
a majority of VW’s common shares and owns 50.1 percent of the
German sports-car maker of the same name. VW owns the remaining
49.9 percent of the automotive business.  The portion of the Stuttgart probe investigating
allegations Porsche executives Wendelin Wiedeking and Haerter
manipulated the price of VW shares is continuing and may take at
least until the middle of the year to be resolved, the
prosecutors said.  Complex, Time Consuming  “Those investigations have turned out to be very complex
and time consuming,” prosecutors said.  A Stuttgart court ruled separately last week that  Ferdinand Piech  violated his duties in 2009 when commenting about the VW
options transactions. Piech, chairman of VW and also a member of
Porsche’s supervisory board, was wrong to tell reporters he
didn’t know the magnitude of Porsche’s option risks and that he
hadn’t sought clarity about it, the court said.  Porsche has said it will ask Germany’s top civil court for
permission to appeal the Stuttgart ruling. Piech said the
court’s decision was wrong.  A year ago, the Stuttgart prosecutors said their probe into
Wiedeking and Haerter had “solidified” suspicions Porsche
didn’t adequately inform the market between 2007 and 2009 about
its intentions to take control of VW. They also added breach of
trust allegations over the use of derivatives, saying the
instruments may have put Porsche at the risk of bankruptcy.  Porsche and VW agreed to combine in August 2009 and planned
a full merger, after Porsche failed with its hostile bid for VW.
The Stuttgart probe and investor lawsuits prompted VW to
consider alternatives to the 2009 agreement, under which the
merger was to be completed by the end of 2011.  To avoid further delays, Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW may
drop the merger and instead buy the rest of Porsche’s car-making
business, two people with direct knowledge of the situation said
in November. That would leave the Porsche holding company as the
legal entity responsible for any lawsuits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  