-- Republicans Criticize Obama on Iran at Pro-Israel Group
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-03-06T19:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/republicans-criticize-obama-on-iran-at-pro-israel-group-1-.html
Three Republican presidential
candidates criticized President  Barack Obama  on Iran, saying
they would be more forceful in stopping the government in Tehran
from developing nuclear weapons.  Rick Santorum , addressing the annual meeting of the
American  Israel  Public Affairs Committee today in  Washington ,
said Obama has “been reticent” in his efforts.  “He says he has Israel’s back,” said Santorum, a former
U.S. senator from Pennsylvania. “From everything I’ve seen, he
has turned his back on the people of Israel.”  Speaking later by satellite to the group,  Mitt Romney , a
former Massachusetts governor, said he would “bring the current
policy of procrastination to an end.”  “Hope is not a foreign policy,” Romney said. “The only
thing respected by thugs and tyrants is our resolve.”  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , also addressing the
group by satellite, said in his administration, “we would not
keep talking while the Iranians keep building.”  He said the “red line” was not when Iran was ready to
detonate a nuclear bomb. “The red line is now” because the
Iranians are “deepening their commitment to nuclear weapons
while we talk,” Gingrich said. “It is an unacceptable risk.”  The three candidates turned their attention from the states
voting in today’s Super Tuesday nominating contests to address
the gathering of the pro-Israel lobbying group.  ‘Bluster’  Obama, at a news conference in Washington, said the
candidates are talking with “a lot of bluster” without having
the responsibilities of commander in chief.  “These folks don’t have a lot of responsibilities,” the
president said. He said he was struck by the “casualness” of
the way his political opponents talk about war. “I’m reminded
of the costs involved in war.”  Obama said the Iranian situation “can still be resolved
diplomatically” as the U.S. has been able to “mobilize
unprecedented, crippling sanctions.” Obama made similar
comments to Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  yesterday.
Netanyahu today is wrapping up a five-day trip to the U.S. and
 Canada .  Also today, the European Union offered to meet with Iranian
officials over the country’s nuclear program in a response to
Tehran’s overture last month to restart talks.  At the Aipac conference in Washington, Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  said “‘we’ll keep all options, including military
action, on the table to prevent them from obtaining a nuclear
weapon.”  In his address to the group March 4, Obama said the U.S.
relationship with Israel was too important to be “distorted”
by partisan politics and that statements that he hasn’t fully
supported Israel are “not backed up by the facts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 