-- Roche Has ‘Other Options’ If Illumina Hostile Takeover Fails, Humer Says
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-06T22:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/roche-has-other-options-if-illumina-hostile-takeover-fails-humer-says.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the Swiss
drugmaker that made a $5.7 billion hostile offer for the gene-
mapping company  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , said it has other options if the
deal falls through.  “Illumina is not the only gene-sequencing company, and
there are other companies making quantum leaps in this field,”
Franz Humer, Roche’s chairman, said in the text of a speech to
be delivered at the company’s annual meeting in Basel today.
“Roche and Illumina both stand to benefit from a rapid merger.
However, this is a sector where we have other options should the
transaction fail over price.”  The Swiss drugmaker on Feb. 27 extended its takeover offer
for Illumina as investors speculate a price increase will be
necessary to win control of the U.S. company. Shareholders have
until March 23 to tender their stock at $44.50 a share.  Illumina has rejected the offer as “grossly inadequate,”
saying on Feb. 27 that it doesn’t “reflect Illumina’s unique
leadership position, business performance and future
prospects.”  Jay Flatley , Illumina’s Chief Executive Officer,
today told CNBC that Roche’s offer “dramatically undervalues”
the company and that the company currently isn’t in negotiation.  Roche’s preference is to “enter into a negotiated
transaction with Illumina and to commence discussions to that
end,” Humer said in the speech. Roche is disappointed that
Illumina’s board won’t enter into talks, he said.  2012 Forecast  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of  cancer drugs ,
reiterated its 2012 forecast, saying it expects a percentage
increase in earnings per share excluding some items in the high
single digits excluding currency shifts.  Sales are expected to grow in the low to mid single-digit
range at constant exchange rates, Chief Executive Officer
Severin Schwan said in the text of his speech.  Roche has cut costs as two new skin cancer drugs --Zelboraf
for metastatic melanoma and Erivedge for advanced basal cell
carcinoma -- are poised to add to sales. Roche repeated it would
continue its “attractive dividend policy” even as it pursues
the Illumina acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  