-- Roddick Channels Jeremy Lin to Beat Federer in New York Tennis Exhibition
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-06T05:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/roddick-channels-jeremy-lin-to-beat-federer-in-new-york-tennis-exhibition.html
Andy Roddick  beat  Roger Federer  for
the first time since 2008, and after the exhibition tennis match
at Madison Square Garden jokingly thanked New York Knicks guard
Jeremy Lin for giving him inspiration as an underdog.  Roddick, who has lost 21 of his 23 tournament matches
against Federer, defeated the record 16-time Grand Slam winner
7-5, 7-6 (9-7) last night in the  BNP Paribas Showdown  in New
York.  Roddick’s victory came in the same arena in which Lin, the
first Harvard University graduate to play in the National
Basketball Association since 1954, has helped lead the Knicks
into playoff contention after being cut by two other teams.  “I feel like Jeremy Lin wanted me to win,” Roddick told
the crowd of 18,079. “I felt his energy in the building, so I
had to try to pull through.”  The event, featuring four players with more than 140
singles titles and 20 Grand Slam victories among them, was part
of a collaboration with the  U.S. Tennis Association ’s Tennis
Night in America initiative to promote youth participation in
the sport.  Roddick’s win came after  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia , the
second-ranked women’s player in the world, beat No. 4  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark 6-3, 6-4 in the first exhibition.  Though Roddick has slipped to 31st in the world, he remains
the best-known American men’s player even with Mardy Fish and
 John Isner  ranked ahead of him.  Federer, 30, of  Switzerland , was playing two days after
beating  Andy Murray  in Dubai for his 72nd career  ATP Tour  title.
Before last night, he had won his past six matches against
Roddick, whose lone Grand Slam title came at the 2003 U.S. Open.  “We’ve had some great battles over the years in all the
great stadiums and this is one of them, so I’m glad we did it,”
Federer, who’s ranked third in the world, told the crowd. “I
wish I could have pushed it” to a third set.  Lighter Moments  While the match was competitive, the exhibition also
featured lighter moments.  Roddick, 29, imitated second-ranked  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain 
during one point, pulling his sleeves up to expose his arms and
grunting loudly during a volley. When he won the game with a
cross-court drop shot, Roddick celebrated with an imitation of
Nadal’s signature fist pump.  Roddick took a break at another point to get an autograph
from actor Ben Stiller, who was sitting in the front row.  Both players also attempted between-the-legs shots during a
rally, with Federer succeeding and Roddick sending his into the
net. Roddick threw his racket toward the net in mock frustration
afterwards, almost hitting a ball girl who wasn’t paying
attention.  Rare Victory  Roddick broke Federer’s serve twice in the first set,
including for a 6-5 lead. In the second set, Roddick withstood
three set points and won the final three points in the
tiebreaker to pull out a rare victory against Federer.  “It was pretty clear that I’m obviously in Roger’s head
and he didn’t quite know how to deal with it,” Roddick joked.
“He’s not really good under pressure, as you saw in that
tiebreaker. He has no idea how to play me, so I just capitalized
on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  