-- RWE Supply & Trading Expects Loss to Widen in 2012 on Gas Cost
-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-03-06T13:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/rwe-supply-trading-expects-loss-to-widen-in-2012-on-gas-cost.html
RWE Supply & Trading GmbH (RWE) , a unit of
 Germany ’s second-biggest utility, expects its operating loss to
increase further this year after rising crude prices boosted the
cost of oil-linked natural-gas costs in 2011.  The unit, based in Essen, had a loss of 800 million euros
($1.05 billion) in the 12 months through December, compared with
a shortfall of 21 million for 2010, parent company  RWE AG (RWE)  said
today in its  annual report .  RWE Supply & Trading buys gas in long-term contracts linked
to  oil prices  from suppliers including Statoil ASA and OAO
Gazprom, the world’s biggest producer of the fuel. The average
price of  Brent crude  rose 38 percent last year to a record
$110.91 a barrel on London’s ICE Futures Europe Exchange.  “RWE Supply & Trading is the bad bank for the gas
business,” Leonhard Birnbaum, the company’s chief commercial
officer, said today in Essen. “Everything on the contract side
that’s not forwarded to the market ends up as a negative result
with Supply & Trading, and not in other parts of the group, so
Supply & Trading suffers a bit for the overall situation.”  The unit expects another operating loss this year, which
will be “much more significant than in 2011,” RWE said.  “Prices linked to the oil market for purchasing gas for
2012 will continue to be much higher than those realizable when
the gas is re-sold on the market,” it said.  The company’s energy trading result was “unusually weak”
last year and it expects “a much improved performance” in
2012, RWE said, without disclosing details.  Proprietary Trading  The proprietary trading business did not reach the result
of the year-earlier period “because individual trading
strategies have proven wrong in the market because of event
risks such as the crisis in North Africa” or the nuclear
disaster in  Japan  last March, Birnbaum said. The trading result,
measured in gross margin, was still positive, he said.  For comparison, profit last year at Electricite de  France 
SA’s London-based unit EDF Trading Ltd. climbed 7.2 percent last
year. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization for the unit rose to 673 million euros last year
from 628 million euros in 2010 because of short-term
optimization of EDF’s power generation fleet in France, it said
in  presentation slides  posted on its website on Feb. 16.  EON AG, Germany’s biggest utility, will publish results for
its EON Energy Trading SE unit on March 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lars Paulsson in  London  at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  