-- S&P Blocked in CMBS After Derailed Goldman Sachs Deal: Mortgages
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-03-06T14:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/s-p-blocked-in-cmbs-after-derailed-goldman-sachs-deal-mortgages.html
Standard & Poor’s  is frozen out of
the commercial-mortgage bond market by the biggest underwriters
after derailing a $1.5 billion sale by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and Citigroup Inc. last July.  Since then, those banks along with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley have bypassed S&P’s credit
ratings as they issued $11.3 billion of debt linked to
skyscrapers, shopping malls and hotels, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. They’re turning to Kroll Bond Ratings
Inc. and  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  after S&P, the world’s largest credit-
rating company, forced bankers to pull an offering they’d
already committed to sell, roiling the $600 billion market.  “S&P no doubt suffered an extraordinary loss of
credibility in this area that will take time and some
restructuring to repair,” said  Chris Sullivan , who oversees
$1.9 billion as chief investment officer at United Nations
Federal Credit Union. “It utterly surprised people.”  Wall Street banks and investors are demonstrating the
possibility of competition in the ratings business, even as
regulators struggle to break S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings’ stranglehold on other bond markets. Four years
after the three firms were blamed by regulators for fueling the
financial bubble by inflating their grades for toxic mortgage
securities, they provide 97 percent of all credit ratings, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a September report.  ‘Ultimate Success’  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P, said the New York-based
company’s CMBS analysts weren’t available to discuss the
situation. “We believe our ultimate success will be based on
the value investors derive from the ratings and research,” he
said in an e-mail.  Ranking structured products such as CMBS and collateralized
debt obligations is one of the most lucrative areas for rating
firms. They generally charge between $1 million and $2 million
to grade a CMBS deal, which are bundled loans tied to commercial
properties sliced into securities of varying risk, according to
a  September paper  by  Andrew Cohen , a researcher at the Federal
Reserve.  The lack of an S&P rating isn’t hurting issuers. Deutsche
Bank priced the safest portion of a CMBS deal last week ranked
AAA by Fitch and Moody’s to yield 110 basis points, or 1.1
percentage points, more than the benchmark swap rate, the
tightest spread since May. Banks are forecasting as much as $45
billion of sales this year, up from $28 billion in 2011.  About one-third of investors polled in a Deutsche Bank
survey said they preferred deals without an S&P ranking, the
Frankfurt-based lender said in a Feb. 27 report. About 15
percent said they look forward to those rated by the new
entrants. More than half said the rating companies didn’t play a
role in their investment decisions.  Pulled Ratings  S&P (MHP) ’s decision to pull its ratings on the $1.5 billion
offering in July interrupted the market’s recovery after
issuance seized up in 2008. A record $232.5 billion was sold in
2007 before losses on home-loan securities froze credit markets.  S&P withdrew rankings on the deal on July 27 and
temporarily stopped rating new commercial-mortgage bonds, saying
it had to review a potential conflict in its model. The
following month, it said it would resume grading deals and that
the conflict had turned out not to be significant.  The banks were forced to cancel the transaction five days
after it was placed with investors. Goldman Sachs reimbursed
buyers for losses they incurred when the deal was withdrawn,
people familiar with the transaction said at the time.  Morgan Stanley analyst Richard Parkus called the event
“unprecedented,” and said that it “severely eroded” investor
and issuer confidence in S&P’s ratings.  Charlie Brown’s Football  “You look to rating companies for predictability and a
degree of certainty,” said Patrick Sargent, a partner at law
firm Andrews Kurth LLP in  Dallas . “It was like Lucy pulling the
ball away from  Charlie Brown .”  This wasn’t the first time S&P riled investors and banks in
the CMBS market. It downgraded dozens of top-ranked bonds in
2009, excluding them from the  Federal Reserve ’s $1 trillion Term
Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility designed to cleanse bank
balance sheets and jumpstart lending. They backtracked on some
of the securities a week after reducing them to BBB-, the lowest
investment-grade ranking, saying there had been an adjustment on
the assumptions on the timing of losses on the mortgages.  ‘Inconsistent Approach’  Investors still hold a grudge, according to Darrell Wheeler, a commercial-mortgage debt strategist at Amherst
Securities Group LP.  “Given their inconsistent approach to ratings and an
unreceptive investor audience, it is difficult to see the upside
for an issuer including S&P in a deal,” Wheeler said.  Two weeks after S&P antagonized CMBS bankers, it downgraded
the U.S., setting off a stock-market swoon and drawing criticism
from President  Barack Obama . Treasury yields then fell to record
lows. The company later sent, then retracted, an erroneous
message suggesting  France  had been downgraded. The backlash may
have prompted parent company McGraw-Hill Cos.’s decision to
replace the unit’s top executive, according to Peter Appert, an
analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co.  “You’ve had a series of miscues,” Appert, who’s based in
 San Francisco , said in a telephone interview. “Under their new
leadership, they’re taking some significant and proactive steps
to address these issues.”  McGraw-Hill fell 0.5 percent to $46.15 at 9:44 a.m. in  New
York . It’s up about 3 percent this year.  New President  S&P announced it had hired Douglas Peterson, a former
Citigroup executive, as president, in August, and in December,
he replaced David Jacob, head of structured finance, and
reassigned Mark Adelson, chief credit officer, to a research
role with less responsibility. The two had been involved in the
decision to withdraw the CMBS ratings, according to three people
familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified because
the deliberations were private. Barbara Duka, who was in charge
of CMBS ratings at the time of the July deal, was removed from
her position this year, one of the people said.  Wall Street  has issued 10 so-called CMBS conduit deals
since the review, none of which have been ranked by S&P. The
firm’s market share plummeted to 26 percent of last year’s deals
from 43 percent in 2010, according to Commercial Mortgage Alert,
a newsletter. Morningstar picked up some of the business, rating
30 percent of deals, while Kroll evaluated 14 percent. Goldman
Sachs and Citigroup resuscitated the pulled deal in September
with ratings from Moody’s, Fitch and Morningstar.  “We didn’t think we would get on as many transactions as
we did last year,” Eric Thompson, Kroll’s head of CMBS in New
York, said in a telephone interview in February. “We view it as
an indicator of folks in the marketplace looking for a fresh
voice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  