-- Saints Apologize for Bounty System Giving Bonus Pay for Injuring Opponents
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-03-07T05:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/saints-apologize-for-bounty-system-giving-bonus-pay-for-injuring-opponents.html
New Orleans Saints coach Sean Payton
and General Manager Mickey Loomis apologized for a bounty
program in which the National Football League team’s players
received money for injuring opponents.  “We acknowledge that the violations disclosed by the NFL
during their investigation of our club happened under our
watch,” the two men said yesterday in a statement released by
the team. “We take full responsibility.”  The NFL said last week that about two dozen Saints players,
led by then-defensive coordinator Gregg Williams, paid each
other as much as $1,500 for injuring opponents.  Williams, 53, occasionally contributed to the funds
himself, the league said. Players were paid $1,500 for a
“knockout” in which an opposing player was unable to return to
the game, and $1,000 for a “cart-off” in which opponents were
carried off the field. Payments doubled or tripled during the
playoffs.  Such a pool violates an NFL rule prohibiting non-contract
bonuses. Players can’t receive added pay for performance against
particular teams or opponents, or on-field misconduct such as
injuring opponents or personal fouls.  “It was a terrible mistake, and we knew it was wrong when
we were doing it,” Williams, who now is defensive coordinator
of the  St. Louis Rams , said last week in an e-mailed statement.
“Instead of getting caught up in it, I should have stopped it.
I take full responsibility for my role.”  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  declined to comment yesterday on
the statement from Payton and Loomis. A day earlier, he declined
to comment on any timeline for punishment of the Saints or
Williams.  NFL Penalties  The NFL has increasingly handed out fines and suspensions
for illegal hits over the past three seasons. Pittsburgh
Steelers  Pro Bowl  linebacker  James Harrison  was suspended for
one game last year for his fifth illegal hit on a quarterback
over that span. That effort comes as the NFL is being sued by
former players who say it ignored the dangers posed by head
injuries.  Payton knew about the pool, even though he wasn’t a direct
participant in funding or administering it, the NFL said. He
“did not make any detailed inquiry or otherwise seek to learn
the facts, and failed to stop the bounty program.”  When Saints owner Tom Benson learned of the program from
investigators, who began looking into the matter in early 2010
after allegations the Saints had targeted Pro Bowl quarterbacks
 Brett Favre  and  Kurt Warner , Benson told Loomis to end it
immediately, the NFL said. There’s no evidence Loomis made any
effort to do that.  Loomis and Payton apologized for causing “undue hardship”
to Benson, “who had nothing to do with this activity,” they
said in the statement.  ‘Serious Violations’  “These are serious violations and we understand the
negative impact it has had on our game,” Loomis and Payton
said. “Both of us have made it clear within our organization
that this will never happen again, and make that same promise to
all of our fans.”  Present and former players and coaches have said since the
NFL announcement that bounties are a part of life in the league,
including four former Redskins, who told the Washington Post
that team had a similar program when Williams worked as
defensive coordinator there between 2004 and 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  