-- Apple IPad Rivals Don’t Hold More Than 5% Share, Forrester Says
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-03-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/samsung-lg-tvs-thinner-than-ipad-seen-weakening-sony-panasonic-sales-tech.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , set to release a new
iPad tablet tomorrow, doesn’t have an Android-based competitor
with more than 5 percent of the market, Forrester Research Inc.
said in a report published today.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , controls 73 percent
of the market, while  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , Sony Corp. and
Toshiba Corp. are among companies making incremental
improvements to tablets without bringing services that cut into
the market share, Sarah Rotman Epps, an analyst at Forrester,
said in the report.  Android-based tablets have been priced in the same range as
iPads with inconsistent branding, Epps also said. Amazon Inc.’s
Kindle Fire and Barnes & Noble Inc.’s Nook tablets may vie for
second place because they build features on top of Android
without using the brand and sell for a lower price, she said.  “Tablets are about services,” Epps said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “That is where Amazon has succeeded where
others have failed.”  When  Forrester (FORR)  carried out its survey in September,
Hewlett-Packard Co. was in second place to Apple with 6 percent
of the tablet market, followed by Samsung Electronics Co.,
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and Acer Inc., with 5 percent, 4
percent and 3 percent respectively. HP cut the price of its
TouchPads to $99 before it stopped selling them.  About one-third of the U.S. adult population will own a
tablet by 2016, as more people bring them to their workplaces,
according to Forrester. The majority of tablets used for work
are paid for by the employee, the research company also said.  ‘Growing Faster’  “This market is growing faster than we expected -- faster
than anyone expected,” Epps said.  In September, before  Amazon (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire was released, 24
percent of consumers surveyed said they would buy a tablet made
by Amazon, compared with 61 percent who said they would buy an
iPad and 21 percent who said they would buy a Samsung tablet,
Forrester said.  Apple is expected to release an iPad with a high-definition
screen, a faster processor and compatibility with next-
generation wireless networks, people familiar with the product
said in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  