-- SAP Offers Share-Based Pay to Workers as Stock Nears Inde
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-03-07T17:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/sap-to-offer-share-based-pay-to-workers-as-market-value-climbs-snabe-says.html
SAP AG (SAP) , whose shares are trading at
the highest level in 11 years, will extend a stock-based
compensation program to all workers as it gets closer to
overtaking  Siemens AG (SIE)  as the most valuable German company.  The biggest maker of enterprise-management software will
offer employees so-called phantom stock, which mirrors the share
price and doesn’t represent actual equity, to encourage long-
term employment and help SAP retain talent, co-Chief Executive
Officer Jim Hagemann Snabe said in an interview at the CeBit
technology fair in Hanover.  SAP has gained 24 percent this year in  Frankfurt  trading as
technology companies benefit from demand for applications that
allow consumers and companies to access data via smartphones and
tablet computers. SAP, which has more than  54,000  employees and
is based in Walldorf, has a market value of 62.4 billion euros
($82 billion), ahead of automaker  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and behind the
67 billion euros of engineering company  Siemens (SIE)  in  Germany ’s
benchmark DAX index.  “I do believe it makes a lot of sense to have incentive
programs for the employees as well, that make them interested in
the share price of the company and give them an opportunity to
participate in our success,” Snabe said yesterday. “This is an
industry with a war for talent, and talent is the biggest
differentiator for everyone in our industry.”  ‘War of Talent’  Other technology companies have also benefitted from rising
demand for their products.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
on March 5 closed above $200 for the first time.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the
maker of the iPhone smartphone and the iPad tablet computer,
last month topped a $500 billion market capitalization. SAP’s
archrival  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  has risen 18 percent this year.  SAP needs to retain top-performing employees as it plans to
boost annual revenue with the help of cloud-computing software,
mobile applications gained through its Sybase acquisition and
the Hana technology, which enables processing of large amounts
of data on the fly.  For 2010, Snabe received 3.86 million euros, including
950,000 euros in share-based compensation. Co-CEO  Bill McDermott 
was paid 4.42 million euros, including the same amount in stock-
based compensation as Snabe. The company hasn’t published their
2011 figures. Snabe and McDermott took over in February 2010.  Cloud Computing  SAP rose 0.1 percent to 50.79 euros in Frankfurt today. The
stock climbed yesterday to as much as 51.82 euro, the highest
level since Oct. 2000.  SAP in 2006 created an incentive plan for executives,
senior management and high-performance employees, setting aside
300 million euros in cash if certain goals are met, including
doubling its market value by 2010 from an assumed base of 44.8
billion euros. That target wasn’t reached, according to
Bloomberg data.  SAP and Oracle are counting on cloud computing, which lets
companies run programs via the Web, as a secure way to outsource
data centers and reduce the need for pricey servers and other
hardware.  SAP’s cloud business will “certainly”  break even  before
reaching a 2015 sales target of 2 billion euros for that
category, Snabe said. The company boosted its offering with the
$3.4 billion acquisition of  SuccessFactors Inc. (SFSF) , which closed
last month.  Snabe said the company would be able to push its operating
margin higher than the 35 percent targeted for 2015 under the
existing business model. At the same time, the co-CEO said he is
“not sure” that it would be “healthy” to raise profitability
with a stronger focus on the maintenance business because it
would come at the expense of the ability to develop new
products.  Emerging Markets  SAP is augmenting its traditional software license-revenue
model with offers in which companies lease applications for
shorter time periods.  In the traditional enterprise resource planning, or ERP,
segment, Snabe predicts demand from clients reducing the number
of software platforms. The business will also benefit from a
focus on the retail, finance and health sectors as well as from
an expansion in  emerging markets  such as China, Brazil and
 Russia , where business-management software isn’t as widely used
yet as in other regions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Hanover at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  