-- Scene Last Night: David Koch, Navab, DiMenna, Walter Isaacson
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-03-06T15:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/scene-last-night-daniel-loeb-david-koch-navab-dimenna-walter-isaacson.html
He bows, he sways, he’s No. 9 on the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index, and last night he danced with
students of the School of American Ballet.  David Koch , 71, showed off his moves at the school’s annual
benefit, which transformed the promenade of the David H. Koch
Theater (named following his $100 million donation) into a
Russian Winter Ball.  Beef Stroganoff, sweet and tangy shredded beets and shots
of vodka were on the menu by Glorious Food. The music was all-
American: on DJ Coleman Feltes’s playlist were  Michael Jackson ’s
“Beat It,” Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believing” and Deee-Lite’s
“Groove Is in the Heart,” in that order.  Koch’s wife, Julia, had the idea for the theme, a nod to
the school’s founder,  George Balanchine . She wore a dress with
fur trim; her husband wore a coordinating tuxedo featuring a
maroon velvet jacket.  Alexander Navab of  KKR & Co. (KKR) ,  Chelsea Clinton , a new NBC
News correspondent, Joseph DiMenna of Zweig-DiMenna Associates
and about 400 others supped at long tables covered in red
brocade, decorated with tall crystal candelabras and bouquets of
red and pink roses, all selected by Ron Wendt Design.  The event raised almost $1 million for the school, where 70
percent of the advanced students receive scholarships, said
executive director Marjorie Van Dercook.  Russian Hooligans  The nightclub-style dancing came after 28 advanced students
performed a high-energy number depicting Russian hooligans, set
to original music by Debauche, a “Russian Mafia Band,” as it
bills itself.  The school’s artistic director, New York City Ballet Master
in Chief Peter Martins, recruited former NYCB principal and Tony
nominee Melinda Roy to choreograph the performance with
assistance from Chad Luke Schiro.  The show got Koch right out of his gold seat.  “You were great,” he exclaimed to student Claire von Enck
as the music swelled.  Things were quieter earlier in the evening at the  New York 
Public Library’s President’s Council Spring Dinner, where Third
Point founder  Daniel Loeb  asked Walter Isaacson if he was
working on an update of his biography of  Steve Jobs .  Isaacson told Loeb he’d consider an update, but is already
absorbed by a new book project about digital innovators,
starting with Ada Byron Lovelace, poet  Lord Byron ’s daughter.  An Algorithm  Lovelace wrote an algorithm that could be applied to make
patterns on fabrics, Isaacson, the event’s featured speaker,
said. He learned about Lovelace when his daughter Betsy, now a
senior at Harvard, wrote a high-school paper on her.  He said he’s pitching the book today to his editor Alice
Mayhew at  Simon & Schuster (CBS) , and in two weeks, is going to
Bodleian, Oxford University’s main research library, to read
Lovelace’s letters.  Another guest asked Isaacson what he thought of Apple’s
future.  Noting the imminent release of the iPad 3, Isaacson said he
thought the team Jobs had put in place would run Apple well for
the next four or five years.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 