-- Scientists Unravel Protein’s Link to Halting Alzheimer’s Disease in Mice
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-03-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/scientists-unravel-protein-s-link-to-halting-alzheimer-s-disease-in-mice.html
Scientists for the first time
explained the role of a protein in the slow destruction of brain
cells in Alzheimer’s disease, pinpointing a potential new target
for treatments.  The protein, called Dkk1, appears in the brains of
Alzheimer’s patients at higher levels than in healthy brains.
Dkk1 is produced by beta amyloid plaque, a defining feature of
the illness, and spurs the breakdown of nerve-fiber connections
in the area of the brain linked to learning and memory,
scientists at  University College London  found.  People with Alzheimer’s show signs of cognitive decline
well before beta amyloid manifests into a detectable build-up of
plaque. The researchers were able to identify Dkk1 and block it
in mice, raising the possibility of stopping the destruction of
brain tissue before irreversible dementia sets in. There is no
cure for Alzheimer’s, and approved therapies only mitigate
symptoms.  “The key thing here is to develop therapies to tackle this
molecule before people exhibit a substantial loss of memory,”
Patricia Salinas, leader of the study at the University College
London’s Department of Cell & Developmental Biology, said in an
interview. “That’s the great hope.”  Alzheimer’s  is a degenerative neurological condition with
no approved treatment to slow brain-cell death. As many as 5
million Americans have the disease, according to the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  Using brain slices from mice, scientists monitored how many
nerve cells survived in the presence of the antibody that blocks
Dkk1 compared with how many survived without the antibody. Brain
cells exposed to the antibody remained healthy, with no signs of
disintegration, they wrote in the  Journal of Neuroscience .
Antibodies are molecules produced by the immune system as part
of the body’s defenses.  The research was funded by  Alzheimer’s Research UK , a
British dementia research charity, and the Biotechnology and
Biological Sciences Research Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  