-- Shale May Spur $30 Billion of Chemical Plants, Lashier Says
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-03-06T21:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/shale-gas-may-spur-30-billion-of-chemical-plants-lashier-says.html
Chevron Phillips  Chemical Co. said
its industry may spend $30 billion to build U.S. factories that
convert natural gas into plastics because shale gas has made
American production the cheapest outside the Middle East.  Output from shale formations will yield enough natural-gas
liquids such as ethane to support about five new plants that
produce ethylene and related plastics, said Mark Lashier, an
executive vice president at Chevron Phillips. Each facility will
cost $5 billion to $6 billion and will be built over more than a
decade, he said today in an interview in Houston.  The company, a joint venture of  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 ConocoPhillips (COP) , is spending $5 billion to build a new ethylene
plant in Baytown, Texas, by 2017 as well as two polyethylene
plants and related infrastructure, Lashier said.  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW) ,  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) ,  Formosa Plastics Corp. (1301)  and  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  also are studying plans to build new plants, known as
crackers, to use the relatively inexpensive gas.  “It’s tens of billions of dollars that the industry will
have to invest to take advantage of that,” Lashier said at
CERAWeek, a Houston conference held by IHS Cambridge Energy
Research Associates.  Cheap gas is doubly advantageous to chemical makers because
it’s used as a raw material and to power factories. U.S. gas is
at a  record low  relative to oil, which is used to make
petrochemicals in Europe and Asia.  U.S. Exports  U.S. plastics exports may surge as new plants start,
creating the need for new infrastructure to handle the increased
shipments, Lashier said. Plastics producers need to be sure they
have port, rail and trucking capacity in place to get their
products to Europe and  Asia  by the most efficient means, he
said.  “The ports work very well right now, but we are importing
more than we are exporting,” Lashier said. “We kind of have to
reverse that flow.”  First-quarter profit margins from polyethylene and other
ethylene derivatives are unsustainable, he said. An unusual
number of crackers are temporarily shut, which cuts ethane
demand and tightens ethylene markets, he said. Dow Chemical
Chief Executive Officer Andrew Liveris also expects ethane costs
to rise near term, he said in an interview last week.  “We are seeing good margins like the rest of the industry,
but it’s short term,” Lashier said. “We see things lining back
out later this year.”  Ethane is a component of gas used to make ethylene, the
most produced petrochemical and an industry bellwether. New
drilling methods are opening up shale formations from Colorado
to West Virginia, reducing the price of gas.  Ethane (LPGSMBPE)  at Mont Belvieu,  Texas , has fallen 36 percent this
year to 52 cents a gallon, according to Liquidity Partners data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  