-- Silver Says Cuomo Needs to Reach Deal With New York Unions on Pension Plan
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-03-06T19:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/silver-says-cuomo-needs-new-york-union-support-on-pension-plan-for-passage.html
New York (STONY1)  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  must
work out a deal with unions on his proposal to raise the
 retirement age  and offer a 401(k)-type option for new workers
before the Assembly will back it, Speaker Sheldon Silver said.  About 2,000 state and local workers descended on Albany
today to meet with lawmakers and urge them to vote against the
pension changes, which the unions said will cut retirement
benefits by 40 percent. Cuomo, a Democrat, has said his plan
will save local governments and the state $113 billion over the
next 30 years. Democrats control the Assembly, while Republicans
hold a majority in the Senate.  “The governor has to work out with the unions a reasonable
approach to save the money,” Silver, 68, told reporters after
speaking to the crowd of public employees gathered in a
convention hall near the Capitol. “I’m not a union leader. I
don’t know the ins and outs of the current conditions of
employment, but I know there can be a deal.”  Cuomo, 54, said last week he’s willing to meet with union
leaders, after he previously said making changes to the pension
system is solely the Legislature’s job. Last year, he won
furloughs and wage freezes from the state’s two biggest unions
by threatening to fire almost 10,000 workers. Those deals, which
saved the state $450 million, were made as part of the
collective-bargaining process.  Willing to Consider  The unions and Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , the sole
trustee of New York’s $140.3 billion retirement fund, the third
largest U.S. public pension, have taken aim at the 401(k)
option, saying it will destroy the middle class. Silver said
today he’s willing to consider the option.  “Some young, new employees in government might choose that
option,” Silver said. “If I started, when I started, if that
was an option, chances are I would have taken that option.”  Last week, New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  led a group of
local leaders, who collectively represent 15 million residents,
to Albany to push lawmakers to approve Cuomo’s pension proposal.
The group said that without changes, including raising the
retirement age to 65 from 62 for most new workers, they’ll be
forced to fire employees.  Cuomo has said pension costs will consume 35 percent of
local-government budgets by 2015, up from 3 percent in 2001.  New
York ’s retirement fund had 101.5 percent of the money needed to
pay its obligations in 2010, better than any other state,
according to an annual study by Bloomberg Rankings.  Cuomo put the pension changes into his budget proposal for
the fiscal year that begins April 1. He has said that if
lawmakers send him a spending plan without the measure, he’ll
force the Legislature to choose between shutting the government
or passing his plan by using a so-called budget extender. The
process is used to keep the government operating when there’s no
agreement on the budget. The governor has the power to put any
item in an extender.  New York’s mayor is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  