-- Singh Lures Biggest Inflows in 17 Months Fueling Stake Sales: India Credit
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-03-06T05:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/singh-lures-biggest-inflows-in-17-months-fueling-stake-sales-india-credit.html
The biggest inflows into  India ’s
bonds and stocks in 17 months are bolstering a rally in rupee-
denominated debt and allowing the government to resume sales of
stakes in state-run companies.  International investors poured $7.3 billion into local
assets last month, the most since adding $8 billion in September
2010, according to data from the Mumbai-based  Securities &
Exchange Board of India . The nation’s notes have returned 2.2
percent this year, the second highest among 10 Asian markets
monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc. The rupee has advanced 6.1
percent against the dollar, the best performance among  Asia ’s 11
most-traded currencies.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration raised $2.5
billion last week by selling 5 percent in Oil & Natural Gas
Corp., boosting efforts to curb the biggest budget deficit since
2009. The government was forced to increase its bond sales 23
percent more than targeted this fiscal year as slowing  economic
growth  damped revenue.  “The appetite for disinvestment offers is generally high
as they give foreigners exposure to good companies,”  John Praveen , the  Newark , New Jersey-based chief investment
strategist at Prudential International Investments Advisers, a
unit of Prudential Financial Inc. that oversees $900 billion,
said in an interview in Mumbai on March 2. “If the government
persists with its disinvestment plans and reforms, India may
attract more capital and fund flows.”  Auction Speculation  The currency could rally 6.4 percent to 47 per dollar in
six months, he predicted.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of shares, which slid the
most in Asia last year, has rallied 13 percent in 2012.  The government received bids for 98 percent of the ONGC
shares on sale, and more than 95 percent of the bids were placed
in the last 10 minutes. A delay in disclosing the results
spurred speculation the auction had failed. Sidhartha Pradhan,
additional secretary at the Department of Disinvestment, didn’t
identify the buyers and told reporters in  New Delhi  on March 1
the government didn’t ask anyone to bid for the shares. ONGC
said yesterday that state-run Life Insurance Corp. of India
bought 88.1 percent of the 427.8 million shares offered.  Sensex, Rupee  The rupee’s movements have tracked the Sensex every year
since 2006, rising and falling with the benchmark. The gauge
plunged 25 percent last year, contributing to the currency’s 16
percent slide, the worst performance among Asia’s most-traded
currencies. The rupee has slumped 21.5 percent from a 10-year
high of 39.265 reached in January 2008.  The currency will end 2012 at 48.50, according to the
median forecast of 25 strategists in a Bloomberg survey. The
rupee will return 12.3 percent in the remainder of the year,
including interest, the most among the biggest emerging markets.
 Brazil ’s real will earn 9.7 percent,  Russia ’s ruble 1.9 percent
and  China ’s yuan 3.5 percent.  The rupee may strengthen to 44.50 to a dollar by the end of
2012 “if inflation stabilizes and oil prices stay in the range
of $75 to $80 per barrel,” according to San Francisco-based EM
Capital Management LLC.  Wholesale prices  in Asia’s third-biggest
economy rose 6.55 percent in January from a year earlier, the
least since November 2009, according to government data.  Oil Prices  Brent crude , the benchmark for almost all of India’s oil
imports, has surged about 15 percent this year to $123.57 a
barrel. The nation imports about 80 percent of its oil
requirements, and commodity products have a weighting of more
than 15 percent in the inflation basket.  “I am highly confident the rupee will continue to
appreciate as the  exchange rate  is low compared to levels during
robust market conditions over the past six years,” San
Francisco-based Seth Freeman, chief executive officer at EM
Capital Management, said in an e-mailed response to questions on
March 2. “The outlook through 2012 is very positive for India.
There is still lot of cash available to go into  emerging markets 
equities and India will get its fair allocation.”  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 8.79 percent bonds due
November 2021 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
8.22 percent today, taking the drop for this year to 35 basis
points.  Budget Deficit  Global funds are adding to holdings of India’s bonds,
attracted by the nation’s higher yields. Rupee-denominated debt
securities offer investors a yield premium of 623 basis points
over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, compared with 448 basis
points a year ago. International investors have raised their
ownership of India’s notes by $5.2 billion in 2012, the best
start to a year on record.  The nation’s bond risk is rising on concern efforts to
lower the budget  deficit  to a four-year low of 4.6 percent of
gross domestic product by selling stakes in state-run companies
won’t be successful. The ONGC sale still leaves India 65 percent
short of its 400 billion rupee ($8 billion) target for asset
sales in the year through March, according to calculations by
Bloomberg.  The government’s deficit in the 10 months through January
overshot the target for the entire financial year by 5.3
percent, data on the Controller General of Accounts showed on
Feb. 29.  Bond Risk  The cost of protecting the debt of  State Bank of India 
using credit-default swaps cost 310 basis points yesterday,
compared with 180 basis points a year earlier, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in privately negotiated markets. Some investors consider
the lender a proxy for the sovereign. The swaps pay face value
should a company fail to adhere to its agreements.  ING Vysya Bank Ltd., the local unit of the biggest Dutch
financial services company and the most-accurate forecaster as
measured by Bloomberg Rankings in the six quarters through
December, predicts fund inflows will slow.  “I see some amount of weakening in the rupee from these
levels,” Upasna Bhardwaj, a Mumbai-based economist at ING Vysya
Bank, said in an interview on March 2. “If we were to see  oil
prices  edging up, the currency could weaken to as low as 51 by
the end of March.”  Olivier Desbarres, head of foreign-exchange strategy for
Asia-Pacific ex-Japan at  Barclays Capital  in  Singapore , expects
gains in the rupee to slow at around 48 per dollar, while
 Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-based currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp.,  Australia ’s second-biggest lender, said
he isn’t “upbeat” on the currency.  ‘Least Crowded’  Global funds may boost their holdings of Indian shares as
the  Reserve Bank  of India eases monetary policy, according to
Deutsche Bank AG. International investors raised their ownership
of the nation’s stocks by $7.4 billion this year, data from the
market regulator shows. The Sensex rose 0.6 percent today to
17,458.39 points.  The gauge may “overshoot” the bank’s target of 18,000 for
the year if flows increase, Abhay Laijawala, head of research at
Deutsche Equities India Pvt., said in an interview on Feb. 29.
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets raised its March 2013 target for the
Sensex to 20,800 last month. The government has identified
Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd., Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd.,  Steel
Authority of India Ltd.  and Hindustan Copper Ltd. as companies
in which it could sell stakes.  “As money looks for a home, it likely will flow into areas
which were down the most last year,” Michael Gayed, the New
York-based chief investment strategist at Pension Partners LLC
that advises on $160 million of assets, wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Money ultimately goes where it is
treated best and where it is least crowded, which would be the
case in markets like India. The rupee can rally much more than
the markets think.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  