-- Sinopec Luoyang Plans to Increase Crude Oil Processing by 21% This Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-06T12:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/sinopec-luoyang-plans-to-increase-crude-oil-processing-by-21-this-year.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,
the nation’s biggest refiner, plans to boost oil-processing
volume at its Luoyang refinery by 21 percent this year.  The plant in the central  Henan province  will process 8
million metric tons of crude, up from 6.6 million tons in 2011,
when the refinery was shut for 45 days for maintenance, said Wei Wenbo, president of the facility. He spoke today in Beijing at
China’s annual parliamentary sessions.  The refinery, which has no maintenance scheduled until 2016,
relies on imported crude from West and North Africa, the  Middle
East  and  South America  for half its needs. The other half comes
mainly from the western parts of China.  Luoyang lost $10 on every barrel of oil it processed in
2011, resulting in an annual net loss of 2.6 billion yuan ($410
million), Wei said. Refining losses were 2.9 billion yuan, while
the plant had a profit of 300 million on petrochemicals. Sales
were 46.8 billion yuan last year and may reach 52 billion yuan
this year, he said.  “Under the current system in  China , it’s impossible to
make profits from refining,” Wei said. Luoyang also has
“geographical disadvantages” because it’s too far from oil
supplies, he said, referring to Xinjiang fields to its west and
oil ports on the eastern seaboard.  The Luoyang plant has crude-distillation capacity of 8
million tons a year and a splitter capable of processing 1.5
million tons of condensate annually, he said. The plant’s
refining costs are 200 yuan a ton more than the China
Petroleum’s average, Wei said, without being more specific.  State-Capped Prices  Refiners in China face pressure on profit because they have
to sell fuel at state-capped prices. Under the current pricing
mechanism, the government may adjust domestic retail fuel rates
when the 22-day moving average of three crude grades comprising
Brent, Dubai and  Indonesia ’s Cinta changes more than 4 percent
from the last price adjustment.  The government should adjust pump prices by taking global
crude prices into account, he said. It should also consider
transportation fees and a 200 yuan-a-ton margin to cover
refining costs.  “That’ll bring margins to zero,” Wei said. “We’re not
even talking about profits here.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  