-- Slovenian Banks Reduce Lending on Lack of Funds From Abroad
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-03-06T15:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/slovenian-banks-continue-to-reduce-lending-central-bank-says.html
Slovenian lenders, including Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. ,
have reduced lending because of the restricted availability of
financing from outside the country.  “As the funding from abroad worsens, banks have tightened
their lending rules and continued to reduce credit,” the
Ljubljana-based  central bank  said in an e-mailed statement
today. “Lower economic activity in the majority of the euro
region along with the worsening debt crisis in the second half
of the 2011 caused a drop in exports and industrial output in
Slovenia.”  The government’s austerity measures, the rising jobless
rate and the reduction of labor costs have also contributed to a
weak home demand, Banka Slovenije said. Banks reported record
2011 losses on mounting bad loans as the  faltering economy ,
which slid into recession in the last quarter of 2011, pushed
many companies into bankruptcy.  Europe ’s economy also contracted in the fourth quarter as
investment declined and exports and  consumer spending  dropped,
the European Union’s statistics office said today.  The banking industry reported a net loss of 356 million
euros ($467 million) for last year and put aside 1.1 billion
euros to cover bad loans, the central bank has said.  Overall pretax profit rose 7.7 percent to 24 million euros
in January as bad-loan reserves dropped, the central bank said.
The banking system is “keeping adequate liquidity ” because of
availability of three-year loans at the  European Central Bank ,
central bank Governor Marko Kranjec said last month.  ‘Improved Confidence’  “The new bundle of measures from the European Central bank
has improved confidence on the financial markets,”  Banka
Slovenije  said.  The Frankfurt-based ECB poured more than 1 trillion euros
of cheap loans into hundreds of European lenders as the rate-
setting bank seeks to push banks to lend to the economy.  Slovenia’s export-driven economy shrank 0.7 percent in the
last three months of 2011 from the previous three-month period,
entering its second recession in three years.  Public spending cuts will further reduce home demand even
though the efforts are needed to ensure a sustainable financing
for the government, to spur the economy and keep the sovereign
credit ratings, the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  