-- SNB to Reveal Board Members’ Currency Transactions After Hildebrand Furor
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-03-07T09:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/snb-to-reveal-board-members-currency-transactions-after-hildebrand-furor.html
The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN) ’s
supervisory council will today publish the results of a probe
into transactions by the bank’s board members and their deputies
after currency purchases prompted Philipp Hildebrand to quit.  The SNB’s council will disclose the results at a briefing
at 3:30 p.m. in Zurich. Governing board members Thomas Jordan,
Jean-Pierre Danthine as well as the deputies -- Thomas Wiedmer,
Thomas Moser and Dewet Moser -- were forced to reveal all
transactions after a furor when details emerged of a currency
purchase by the former president’s wife about a month before
policy makers imposed the first franc cap in three decades.  The SNB, which proposed to toughen  internal rules  in
January, said last month that the Bank Council will probably
submit the name of a candidate to join the board in April. While
Jordan, 49, was appointed interim chairman on Jan. 9 and since
pledged to defend the franc ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro, the
government has signaled it wants to wait for the outcome of the
probe before officially appointing a president.  “Should the results show that Jordan indeed has a clean
slate, it would be all but sure that the government will appoint
him chairman,” said Ralf Wiedenmann, chief economist at
Vontobel Asset Management Ltd. in Zurich. “Pressure on the
government to act quickly in replacing Hildebrand will build.”  The franc traded at 1.2055 versus the euro at 10:47 a.m. in
Zurich, little changed on the day. Versus the dollar, it was at
91.77 centimes.  Sensitive Transactions  The KPMG probe showed both board members and all three
deputies had acted in line with the SNB’s internal rules,  Tages-
Anzeiger  reported today, citing an unidentified person familiar
with the matter. The SNB council sees no obstacle to appointing
Jordan new president, the newspaper said.  Hildebrand, who will be part of the probe, resigned after a
previous investigation showed that his wife had purchased
$504,000 in August. The SNB imposed the currency cap on Sept. 6.
The investigation will also look into transactions over the two
previous years, when the central bank had spent 15 months
purchasing foreign currencies to weaken the franc.  The SNB said on Feb. 17 that a “longlist of possible
candidates for the vacant position” on the three-member board
is “currently being drawn up based on an already approved
requirement profile.” The seven-member governing coalition will
then elect a new board member as well as a chairman.  ‘Latent Distrust’  While Jordan has already said he’s willing to accept the
post,  Der Sonntag  newspaper reported on Feb. 19 that some
government members may be opposed to the economist taking the
helm of the SNB. Bank Council member Gerold Buehrer, who is also
head of the Economiesuisse lobby group, said on Jan. 27 that it
would be good for the government to elect a successor to
Hildebrand sooner rather than later.  Janwillem Acket, chief economist at  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) 
in Zurich, agrees.  “The government is not fully backing the current SNB
managing team but displays many elements of latent distrust,”
he said. Even if their election process “may be intended to be
cautious and thorough, they can easily be perceived by the
markets as wavering, hesitant, unsure and weak.”  Jordan on Feb. 28 called the franc still “massively”
overvalued, while pledging to defend the ceiling “with all
determination” if needed to protect the economy. The SNB
“remains firmly committed to defending” the franc ceiling and
won’t “tolerate any trading below” 1.20, he said earlier.  The SNB will publish full-year earnings tomorrow and hold
its next monetary policy  assessment  on March 15. The supervisory
council is set to approve new internal rules with “far-reaching
restrictions on financial investments” of the so-called
enlarged board, including the three deputies, as soon as March,
it said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  