-- SocGen, Generali Join Greece Debt Swap
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-03-07T10:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/societe-generale-unicredit-join-firms-participating-in-greece-s-debt-swap.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s
second-biggest bank, Assicurazioni Generali SpA and  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  joined firms saying they would participate in Greece’s debt
swap as the country threatened to compel holdouts to take part.  Greece’s six largest banks also plan to accept the offer,
the Finance Ministry said late yesterday. Those lenders held
about 42 billion euros ($55 billion) of bonds eligible for the
swap at the end of September, company reports show, making them
crucial to the exchange. Greek pension funds with about 17
billion euros of debt will also join, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said on Real FM Radio today.  The goal of the swap, which runs through tomorrow, is to
reduce the 206 billion euros ($270 billion) of privately held
Greek debt by 53.5 percent, helping avert a disorderly default
that could roil markets and fuel contagion. The Greek government
said it will use collective action clauses to force holders of
Greek-law bonds to accept the swap if necessary.  Not Joining Swap  Patrick Armstrong , managing partner at Armstrong Investment
Managers in London, said he won’t voluntarily join in the swap
because of the “minuscule” chance his bond maturing March 20
will be redeemed at par. Failing that, “‘I do fully expect to
be part of the collective action clause,” he said in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Mark Barton today.  Greek pension funds with an additional 6 billion euros of
bonds have to decide whether to join, Venizelos said.  Trieste-based  Generali (G) , Italy’s largest insurer, held Greek
bonds with a nominal value of about 2.95 billion euros at the
end of September, while UniCredit of Milan had 540 million euros
of Greek bonds on that date, company reports show. Societe
Generale had 1.06 billion euros of Greek sovereign bonds as of
Dec. 31. Spokeswomen for the companies confirmed that they plan
to participate in the swap.  European officials are pressing investors to swallow net
present value losses of more than 70 percent to avert the even
greater hit that would result from an uncontrolled default. A
second rescue package, a 130 billion-euro bailout, depends on
the exchange’s outcome.  No More Funds  If the swap fails, “the official sector will not finance
Greece’s economic program and Greece will need to restructure
its debt” on different terms from those set out in the current
proposal, the Greek  Finance Ministry  said in a statement
yesterday. Petros Christodoulou, the director general of the
Public Debt Management Agency, outlined the country’s debt swap
at a meeting in Frankfurt, according to the statement.  Greece expects bondholders to accept the offer and is ready
to force them to participate if necessary, Venizelos said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Athens this week. Compelling
holdouts to take part will likely trigger insurance contracts on
the debt known as credit default swaps, analysts said.  If Greece forces bondholders to join, there “is likely be
fallout in the peripheral countries, including Spain and
Italy,”  Marc Chandler , the head of global currency strategy at
Brown Brothers Harriman in New York, said in a note. There may
also be negative repercussions for financial shares, he said.  The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index 
advanced 0.6 percent by 11:05 a.m. Paris time after posting its
biggest decline in four months yesterday.  Steering Committee  Three of the largest Greek banks --  National Bank of Greece
SA ,  Alpha Bank SA (ALPHA)  and EFG Eurobank Ergasias -- had already
signalled they would participate in the debt swap. Now Piraeus
Bank SA, Agricultural Bank of Greece and TT Hellenic Postbank SA
have signed on, according to the Finance Ministry.  Twelve members of the creditors’ steering committee that
negotiated the debt swap with Greece will join in the exchange,
according to a March 5 statement from the International
Institute of Finance, which represents more than 450 financial-
services companies globally.  Charles Dallara , managing director
of the Washington, D.C.-based IIF, led negotiations for private
creditors in the debt-swap discussions.  Leaving aside the three Greek banks on the committee, the
remaining nine firms that signed on, which include  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank (CBK) , hold Greek government
bonds with a face value of at least 14 billion euros, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg from the companies and their
reports.  Allianz, Axa  Allianz SE,  Axa SA (CS) ,  CNP Assurances (CNP)  SA, Greylock Capital
Management,  ING Bank (INGA)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  are the other
members of the creditors’ steering committee that plan to accept
the swap, according to the statement from the IIF.  Rabobank Groep plans to participate, Chief Financial
Officer Bert Bruggink said by e-mail. The Utrecht, Netherlands-
based company had Greek bonds with a market value of 49 million
euros after writing them down by 72 percent. Banco BPI SA also
plans to take part, an official at  Portugal ’s fifth-biggest bank
said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  