-- S&P Proposal May Raise One-Third of U.S. Local-Debt Ratings
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-03-06T18:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/some-u-s-local-government-grades-may-rise-under-s-p-methodology-proposal.html
About one-third of U.S. local
governments may have their  credit rating  raised by  Standard &
Poor’s (MHP)  under a new methodology that the company is proposing to
boost transparency and comparability.  The change would affect about 3,800 issuers, S&P said in a
report today. About 65 percent of ratings may remain unchanged
under the plan, while 3 percent could drop, typically by one
level, S&P said.  The new criteria would use the same framework the company
applies to local and regional governments outside the U.S., S&P
said.  “We’re striving to have ratings that are comparable
globally and with other sector ratings,” Jeffrey Previdi, one
of the primary analysts on the report, said at a media briefing
in  Manhattan . “So the credit risk present in a AA here is the
same as a credit risk present in a AA elsewhere.”  In 2010,  Moody’s Investors Service (MCO)  and Fitch Ratings
adjusted their grading framework for the securities to make it
more comparable with company debt.  The changes followed years of complaints from elected
officials that rating companies were penalizing states and local
governments by holding their debt to a higher standard than
corporate bonds.  Standard & Poor’s  said that it already rated
municipal bonds the way it graded other debt.  Global Scale  Moody’s moved to a “global scale,” affecting about 70,000
ratings, according to a company statement. Fitch moved 13,500
bond issues to the international scale.  S&P proposed ratings based on seven areas: economy,
management, liquidity, budgetary performance, budgetary
flexibility, debt and institutional framework. The economy score
would receive a 30 percent weighting, compared with 20 percent
for management. The others would account for 10 percent each.  Each area would receive a score on a scale of 1 to 5, with
1 being the strongest, and the weighted average would give the
municipality an “indicative rating,” according to the report.  Local governments with liquidity scores of 4 can’t exceed a
rating of A-, S&P’s seventh-highest investment grade, due to a
series of “overriding factors,” according to the report. A
liquidity score of 5 would automatically place a municipality
below investment grade. Inadequate management and general-fund
balance are other criteria that could impose a ratings cap.  ‘Positive Tone’  The change would affect ratings on municipal governments
that aren’t special-purpose districts, according to the report.
Cities, counties, towns, villages, townships and boroughs would
be included, while school districts would be among those
excluded.  The proposed move comes as S&P’s municipal ratings actions
already “have a generally more positive tone,” according to a
report from Matt Fabian at Municipal Market Advisors. So far in
2012, S&P has had 1.6 upgrades for every downgrade in the
municipal market, while Moody’s has 3.7 downgrades for every
upgrade, the report said.  Market participants will have 90 days to provide feedback
on the changes. S&P analysts at the briefing declined to comment
on when the company will release its final methodology after the
period ends.  “They’re saying their munis are rated too low,” Fabian
said in a telephone interview from Concord,  Massachusetts . “The
timing, just like it was poor for Moody’s, is poor for S&P too.
There’s no good time to say your ratings are wrong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  