-- South African Rand Weakens Third Day, Yields Rise on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-06T14:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/south-africa-rand-weakens-third-day-yields-rise-on-global-growth-concern.html
The rand weakened against the dollar
for a third day on concern slowing global growth will dim
prospects for South African exports. Bonds declined, driving
three-year yields to a six-week high.  South Africa ’s currency retreated as much as 0.9 percent to
7.6192 per dollar, the weakest since Feb. 27. It traded at
7.6157 per dollar as of 3:20 p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its
decline in the past three days to 2.3 percent. The yield on the
nation’s 65 billion rand ($7.6 billion) of 13.6 percent bonds
due 2015 rose 1.5 basis points to 6.71 percent, the highest
since Jan. 20.  Europe ’s gross domestic product shrank 0.3 percent from the
third quarter, the region’s statistics office said today,
confirming an initial estimate published on Feb. 15. Data showed
yesterday that U.S. factory orders decreased for the first time
in three months and euro-area services output shrank more than
forecast in February, while  China  lowered its growth target. The
U.S. euro region and China buy 44 percent of South Africa’s
exports, according to government data.  “The downturn in growth expectations comes as a hit to the
rand,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency strategists at
Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in an e-mailed report.
“Ultimately the rand is a high-beta play on growth.”  South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  fell for a third day,
reaching a five-week low, as shares in mining companies
including BHP Billiton Ltd. and Anglo American Plc slumped. The
 Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of commodities also retreated for a
third day.  ‘Growth Concerns’  Metals and other commodities account for 65 percent of
South Africa’s export earnings, according to government data for
2011. The nation has the world’s largest mineral reserves,
according to Citigroup Inc.  “Growth concerns are likely to remain very much the
focus,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “This
implies the potential for further weakness in the rand.”  The rand also retreated as  Greece  struggles to complete a
bond exchange with private investors by March 8 in order to
receive a 130 billion-euro bailout. Greece expects bondholders
to accept the offer and is ready to force them to participate if
necessary, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in  Athens  yesterday. The euro,
which pays for 22 percent of South Africa’s exports, dropped to
a two-week low against the dollar.  “The risk-off sentiment remains in play,”  George Glynos ,
an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-
mailed comments today. “There are a few risk events up ahead
that should keep dollar bids reasonable in the very short term.
These include on-going negotiation in euro land.”  Bond Yields  The yield on South Africa’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 percent
bonds due 2024 rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 4.21 percent. The extra yield investors demand to hold
the debt rather than  U.S. Treasuries  widened 10 basis points to
223 basis points.  “Bonds probably took some direction from the weaker
rand,” Jeremy Fox, a fixed-income trader at Rand Merchant Bank
in Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed research note. “Recent
price action in the  bond market  has not been good, suggesting
that we should probably trade weaker over the next few days.”  Credit default swaps for South Africa’s foreign-currency
sovereign bonds rose four basis points to 158 basis points
yesterday, the highest since Feb. 29, according to CMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  