-- South Sudan May Seek Loans to Cover Lost Oil Revenue, UN Says
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-03-06T13:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/south-sudan-may-seek-loans-to-cover-lost-oil-revenue-un-says.html
South Sudan  may seek commercial
loans to compensate for revenue lost since it shut down its oil
industry in January because of a dispute with  Sudan , the head of
the United Nations mission in the country said.  Hilde Johnson, the special representative of the UN
secretary-general, said she has had discussions with government
officials about how to cover the gap in lost revenue from oil,
which accounts for more than 95 percent of the newly independent
nation’s income.  “They seem to be leaning more towards loans than donor
support, but it is too early to tell,” she told reporters today
in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.  South Sudan, which gained control of about 75 percent of
the formerly united Sudan’s 490,000 barrels a day of output at
independence in July, completed a shutdown of production Jan.
28. It took the action after accusing Sudan of stealing its oil.
Sudan said it confiscated the crude to make up for unpaid fees.  Negotiations between the countries since independence have
failed to yield an agreement on how much the landlocked south
should pay to transport its oil through a pipeline across Sudan.
The latest round of negotiations was scheduled to begin today in
the Ethiopian capital,  Addis Ababa .  “Unless an agreement is reached with Sudan that will allow
for a resumption of oil production and exports, there is a risk
that severe cuts will have to be undertaken a few months from
now,” Johnson said.  While South Sudan may ask international donors to help make
up the budgetary shortfall, there is no guarantee they would
agree to provide funding, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Nairobi at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  