-- Spanish Regions are Committed to Budget Cuts, Montoro Says
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-03-06T22:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/spanish-regions-are-committed-to-budget-cuts-montoro-says-1-.html
A majority of Spanish regions
pledged to meet this year’s budget-deficit target after last
year’s slippage contributed to the  nation  missing its total goal
agreed to with the European Union.  “All Spanish public administrations are committed to
reducing the public deficit,” Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro
said at a press conference in  Madrid  today after meeting with
the 17 semi-autonomous regional governments.  A majority of 14 regions agreed to respect a deficit target
of 1.5 percent of gross domestic product for 2012, according to
Montoro. He said the government has the means to force
Andalusia, which voted against, as well as Catalonia and the
 Canary Islands , which didn’t vote, to comply.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s  People’s Party  government
increased Spain’s total deficit target for 2012 to 5.8 percent
of GDP from 4.4 percent on March 2 after failing to rein in the
euro area’s  fourth-biggest shortfall  last year and as the nation
 risks  its second recession since 2009.  Spain ’s regions control over a third of public spending
including health and education and their deficit was nearly
twice their target last year at 2.9 percent of GDP, pushing the
nation’s total shortfall to 8.5 percent. That was above the 6
percent EU limit for 2011.  ‘Correcting Deficits’  “No one should be lazy when it comes to correcting
deficits because it means sending the wrong message to everyone,
to the citizens of each region and to the investors funding
it,” Montoro said.  The central government’s own 2012 budget due on March 30
will be “very austere” and it will be “a reference” for all
regions to follow suit and reduce their own budgets, Montoro
said.  Montoro said the budget stability law approved by the
government this month enables it to pressure all regions to
comply with deficit reduction goals. He also reiterated that no
region would receive help to face unpaid bills to suppliers
unless its budget plan was approved by the central government.  Catalonia, Spain’s largest region with an economy the size
of  Portugal ’s, plans a deficit of 1.3 percent of GDP this year,
even as it has criticized the larger effort the regions have to
make this year compared with the central government.  Andalusia, the southern region that includes the city of
Seville, is the only Socialist-governed region left in Spain and
the People’s Party is battling to win it in an election this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  