-- Standard Bank Underwrites $2.5 Billion South African Renewable Power Bids
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-03-06T14:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/standard-bank-underwrites-2-5-billion-in-south-african-renewable-bidding.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,  Africa ’s
largest lender, increased its funding for renewable-energy
projects in the continent’s biggest economy to 27 billion rand
($3.5 billion).  The bank agreed to underwrite 19 billion rand for 31 of the
projects submitted in the second round of bids in South Africa’s
renewable-energy program of as much as $12 billion, Power
Finance Head  Alastair Campbell  told reporters in Johannesburg
today. The lender is already underwriting 8.2 billion rand for
preferred bidders in the first phase, announced in December.  The government invited bids on Aug. 3 to build 3,725
megawatts of renewable energy by the end of 2016. It approved 28
projects to add 1,416 megawatts in the first bidding round in
December and yesterday closed submissions for the second. Bids
probably exceeded the number of megawatts available in the
second round, and this is likely to be the case in the third
phase, Campbell said.  “The returns from  emerging markets  for infrastructure and
power are more favorable now, especially since the financial
crisis and the general stability that has come to Africa,”
Ntlai Mosiah,  Standard Bank ’s head of power advisory services,
told reporters. “In  Europe , tariffs that were agreed on with
those governments have unfortunately been renegotiated by
decree, so there is less confidence in those as a result.”  Wind, Photovoltaic Projects  Standard Bank agreed to provide senior debt underwriting
for wind and photovoltaic projects with a combined power-
generating capacity of 1,454 megawatts in the second round,
Campbell said.  “The second bidding window has resulted in a lot of
bidders being aggressive in the pricing of their bids,”
Campbell said. “We’ve had a squeeze on our margins. Everyone’s
been squeezed.” This bodes well for  South Africa ’s future
electricity prices, he said.  Average power prices in the country have almost trebled in
the last four years as Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the state
utility that supplies about 95 percent of the country’s
electricity, increased charges.  South Africa wants to generate more power from wind, solar
and nuclear sources to cut reliance on coal and reduce
pollution. The government wants to use the opportunity to boost
 job creation  through manufacturing in the country, where about
one in every four people  don’t have a job .  The government increased local-content requirements after
the second round, Mosiah said. Gestamp Wind is looking to start
manufacturing domestically while  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  India ’s
biggest wind-turbine maker, is looking to make towers in South
Africa, Campbell said.  The government is scheduled to finish evaluating the
second-round bids on May 11. A total of 79 bids were received in
this phase, Thandiwe Maimane, a spokesman for the Department of
Energy, said by mobile phone today, without giving further
details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  